
# Baby almost suffocates as 'dad stuffs wipes in boy's mouth to stop his crying'

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:53:32+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, Kathryn Quinn, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/baby-almost-suffocates-dad-stuffs-20816050)

A baby boy almost suffocated when his dad stuffed his mouth full of wet wipes because he wouldn't stop crying, it is claimed.
The mother of the three-month-old infant, called Liam, told how she saved her son when she found him struggling to breathe and began pulling the wipes out.
It is claimed that the boy's father, named only as Adem D, 21, shoved the wipes into the child's mouth because he wanted "peace and quiet". He was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder.
The mum, named only as Laura S, 21, said she screamed at her partner and demanded to know what happened, but he wouldn't give her an explanation.
She said she grabbed their son and fled their flat in Essen in western Germany, and a friend reported the alleged incident to police.
 
Laura claims she was in the kitchen making a bottle for her son when she heard the baby crying.
According to local media Laura said: "When I came into the living room, I saw that Liam had a mouth full of wet wipes. I immediately began to pull them out of his mouth.
"When I shouted at Adem asking him what he had done, he did not say anything."
She grabbed the baby and fled the apartment. She then went to a nursery school and picked up her other son, three-year-old Alessio, and went to Adem's mothers house.
Laura told a friend about the incident and her pal called the police.
When police arrived they called an ambulance as Liam had bruising on his face, it is claimed.
The father had left and gone to a friend's house. He was later arrested, pending further investigations.
Prosecutor Elke Hinterberg said: "According to our investigations so far, we believe the baby was crying and the father wanted his peace and quiet."
Adem is being investigated on charges of attempted murder as well as child abuse.
Lawyer Arne Michels, 32, representing the mother said: "By treating the child in this way, the father was accepting the child could die as a result. If found guilty he could face up to one year in prison."
Adem, who has a previous conviction for GBH, had also been violent towards Laura, it is claimed.
Laura claimed: "When I was pregnant with Liam, he wanted me to have an abortion and put a lot of pressure on me. Once he nearly left me unconscious by strangling me."
