
# Catch Up On Star Trek: Discovery With A CBS All Access Free Trial

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Futurism Creative**

Original: [Futurism](https://futurism.com/cbs-all-access)

You probably don’t need me to tell you that we’re approaching a critical mass of video streaming  services. More and more are being launched all the time, each with their own blend of back catalog favorites and new original programming. And as the number of streaming services grows, what used to be a simple equation weighing the cost of a streaming subscription or two against paying for cable has become much more complicated. But one of the best and biggest bangs for your streaming buck belongs to CBS All Access, which can be yours for as little as $5.99 a month. And right now, you can try CBS All Access free for one week.
If you are or have ever been a fan of CBS’s legendary catalog of programming, CBS All Access is mandatory viewing. They have more than 10,000 episodes of programs from across the CBS library, including daytime, prime time, and late night shows, as well as classic favorites. New episodes of contemporary series are added almost immediately after broadcast, which means you can stay current on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, Blue Bloods, Survivor, Big Brother, and anything else you’re used to seeing on CBS.
No streaming service worth its salt lacks exclusive programing. And CBS has pulled out all the stops, giving All Access a respectable range of exclusives, including Star Trek: Discovery and the newest version of The Twilight Zone hosted by Jordan Peele. And if you’re a Star Trek fan, you undoubtedly already know about Star Trek: Picard, another CBS All Access original that will feature Patrick Stewart’s return to his legendary role.
Of course, CBS’s live television is also included with CBS All Access. So you can always check out your local CBS affiliate via live stream. It also includes a few other live TV options like CBSN, CBS Sports HQ, and ET Live 24/7. You can even spy on the old Big Brother house at any time of the day or night via the Big Brother live feeds. And let’s not forget that the service includes the NFL on CBS.
CBS All Access is available in two different price tiers. If you’re OK with commercial breaks, you can get an ad-supported plan for just $5.99 a month. But if the modern streaming world has you spoiled for commercial-free viewing, you can opt for that, and it’s still a bargain at $9.99 per month. And if you’re in school, (and you can prove it), CBS All Access also offers student plans with a 25-percent discount.
So if you’re ready to give CBS All Access a try, you can do so for a week absolutely free. Head over to the service’s official site to get started and to learn more about all the features it has to offer.

        Futurism fans: To create this content, a non-editorial team worked with an affiliate partner. We may collect a small commission on items purchased through this page. This post does not necessarily reflect the views or the endorsement of the Futurism.com editorial staff.
      
