
# Canelo vs. Kovalev odds: Canelo Alvarez comfortably favored over Sergey Kovalev

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mookie Alexander**

Original: [Bloody Elbow](https://www.bloodyelbow.com/2019/11/1/20944024/canelo-vs-kovalev-odds-canelo-alvarez-comfortably-favored-over-sergey-kovalev-boxing)

We are a day away from Canelo Alvarez’s quest for light heavyweight gold. The Mexican superstar is set to challenge WBO champion Sergey Kovalev on November 2nd in Las Vegas, Nevada, and we have the latest betting odds.
Canelo (52-1-2, 35 KOs) has never fought at light heavyweight and is known for his dominance at 154 and 160 lbs, but the jump up two weight classes isn’t deterring oddsmakers from installing him as the comfortable favorite over the Russian power-puncher.
As of Friday, Alvarez can be gotten at -450 odds, according to OddsShark. That’s not gigantic odds when you consider boxing lines are different than MMA lines, but he’s still a clear favorite.
Kovalev has not been an underdog too often in his career. He closed as one against Andre Ward in their controversial first bout, and was a slight dog vs. Eleider Alvarez in their rematch earlier this year. This figures to be the heaviest underdog tag Kovalev has ever gotten.
Alvarez is used to being the betting favorite, and he commanded similar odds against Daniel Jacobs in May. If prop bets are your thing, the fight is favored to go the distance, but Canelo by unanimous decision is +160.
Bloody Elbow will have full fight week coverage of Canelo vs. Kovalev, including play-by-play, analysis, highlights, and much more. The DAZN main card begins at 9 PM ET/6 PM PT. The main event will begin after the conclusion of UFC 244, as to not go head-to-head.

        View all 6 stories
      
