
# Dean Smith receives striker transfer answer as Liverpool urged to sign Aston Villa star

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/dean-smith-receives-striker-transfer-17194290)

Steven Gerrard has told Alfredo Morelos’ admirers the striker will ‘100 per cent’ be a Rangers player beyond the January transfer window.
Aston Villa are among the clubs to have been linked with the Colombia international, who continued a prolific run of form with a brace against Hearts on Sunday to secure Rangers’ spot in the Betfred Cup final.
The 23-year-old has now scored 20 goals already this season for Gerrard’s side, who are level on points with Celtic in the race for the Scottish Premiership title.
This week, he sparked concerns that an Ibrox exit could be on the cards in the near future when he spoke about January on a Colombian radio station.
But Gerrard has said in no uncertain terms that his star forward will be going nowhere once the window re-opens.

        Read more here.
      
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Dean Smith has done an “unbelievable” job at Aston Villa and his work is going under the radar due to the success of other Premier League managers.
That is the opinion of former Villa striker Darren Bent, who also highlighted the excellent starts made by Chris Wilder at Sheffield United and Graham Potter at Brighton & Hove Albion.
But Bent, who spent four years at Villa Park in the top flight, believes Smith is doing just as well.
Wilder has guided the newly-promoted Blades to sixth in the table after 11 games, while Potter has Brighton in eighth in his first season in the Premier League.

        Read more here.
      
Rushian Hepburn-Murphy grabbed his Tranmere Rovers opportunity with open arms – with the striker netting a superb hat-trick against MK Dons.
Before Saturday, the 21-year-old was yet to open his account for Rovers since joining the League One side on loan from Aston Villa in August.
Hepburn-Murphy has been made to be patient this season with his start against the Dons only his third of the campaign so far.
But he struck once in the first-half and twice in the second period to net his first career hat-trick at senior level and hand his side a vital three points to guide them away from the drop zone.

        Read more here.
      
Liverpool fans want to see John McGinn at Anfield after Saturday’s 2-1 victory against Aston Villa.
The Reds took all three points so extend their lead at the top of the Premier League, coming from behind after Trezeguet had fired Villa into a first-half lead.
Late goals from Andy Robertson and Sadio Mane turned the game on its head and Jurgen Klopp’s side now have a six-point advantage over Manchester City.
But it was Villa midfielder McGinn who caught the eye of plenty of Liverpool supporters.

        Read more here.
      
Martin Atkinson changed his mind when reviewing Roberto Firmino’s goal for Liverpool against Aston Villa, according to Andy Gray.
With the Reds trailing 1-0, Firmino saw his header ruled out for offside.
The decision was initially given on the field before being checked, and upheld, by Atkinson, who was the VAR for the game.
Footage showing Atkinson checking the decision by drawing a lane leading up to Firmino’s armpit and another up to the knee of Tyrone Mings, who was the Villa player furthest back.
And Gray has claimed Atkinson changed his mind by swapping the lines.

        Read more here.
      
 
