
# FX’s Shows Will Soon Stream on Hulu, and a Few Will Even Premiere There

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:11:46+00:00**

Author: **Jackson McHenry**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/2019/11/fx-shows-streaming-hulu.html)

One of the streaming-related aftershocks of the big Disney-Fox merger: FX, which Disney now owns, is getting a whole lot closer to Hulu, in which Disney has a controlling interest. Disney announced today that Hulu will soon become the “official streaming home” of FX shows, which will now premiere on Hulu the day after they air linearly on the cable network. The “FX on Hulu” deal will debut in March of 2020, and as part of it, four shows developed for FX will now air on Hulu. First among them: Devs, from Ex Machina and Annihilation’s Alex Garland, will now premiere exclusively on FX on Hulu in March. Mrs. America, starring Cate Blanchett as Phyllis Schlafly, will premiere in spring 2020. A Teacher, starring Kate Mara, will premiere in the summer. The Old Man, starring Jeff Bridges, John Lithgow, and Amy Brenneman, will premiere in the fall.
In addition to all those new FX turned Hulu shows, Hulu will also add a bunch of old and current FX shows to its catalogue. That list includes currently airing shows: American Horror Story, Archer, Atlanta, Better Things, Cake, Fargo, Mr Inbetween, Mayans M.C., Snowfall, Taboo, The Weekly, and What We Do in the Shadows. It also includes a collection of older shows: Baskets, The Bastard Executioner, The Comedians, Fosse/Verdon, The League, Legion, Legit, Man Seeking Woman, Married, The Riches, Sex&Drugs&Rock&Roll, The Strain, Sons of Anarchy, Trust, Tyrant, You’re the Worst, and Wilfred. That means AHS is jumping ship to Hulu, but American Crime Story and Pose are staying put at Netflix for now (Feud, meanwhile, isn’t streaming anywhere). Call it a partial Ryan Murphy acquisition — the Half Murphy.
