
# Sask. estimates additional legal costs for carbon tax appeal at $400-500K

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:31:46+00:00**

Author: **Arthur White-Crummey**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/politics/sask-estimates-additional-legal-costs-for-carbon-tax-appeal-at-400-500k)

Saskatchewan has retained the law firm MLT Aikins for its upcoming constitutional challenge of carbon taxation before the Supreme Court of Canada, and the province’s justice minister estimates it will cost roughly $400,000 to $500,000 in additional legal bills.
Don Morgan, the province’s justice minister and attorney general, told reporters that the law firm approached the government after the Saskatchewan Court of Appeal ruled against the province’s arguments challenging the constitutional validity of the federal carbon backstop.
Saskatchewan is now appealing that decision to the Supreme Court of Canada in Ottawa, with a hearing date now tentatively set for March 2020. Morgan said the province chose to bear what he called “a significant cost” for outside counsel in order to ensure it prevails.
“We think the precedent we’re setting here is is very important not just to Saskatchewan but to all of Canada,” he said on Thursday.
Morgan said interim bills are beginning to come in from MLT Aikins, one of the largest law firms in Western Canada. They suggest total fees will be in the range of $400,000 to $500,000.
“That’s in addition to what the constitutional law branch is doing,” he said. “We have really good lawyers in the constitutional law branch. But we wanted to do everything we could to make sure that we were successful before the Supreme Court.”
He said the costs for in-house counsel from the province’s constitutional law branch have been far less significant, generally limited to travel, hotel and filing costs.
Saskatchewan is also intervening in Alberta’s reference case on carbon pricing before the Alberta Court of Appeal. But Morgan said MLT Aikins will not be assisting in that case, which will be heard in Edmonton on Dec. 16 to 18.
Morgan said the province will be adjusting its arguments going forward in light of the Court of Appeal for Saskatchewan decision, notably to account for arguments from British Columbia that backed up the federal case for the tax.

        “The Court of Appeal, when they wrote their decision, were intrigued and supportive of the position that was advanced by the province of British Columbia as to what was a national undertaking and what wasn’t,” he said.
      
“Those actually become really important.”
Saskatchewan has argued that Ottawa exceeded its jurisdiction by imposing a tax unevenly depending on how provinces choose to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. The province’s lawyers argued that doing so offends the principle of federalism on which the constitution is based.
But in a 3-2 split decision released in May, the majority for the Court of Appeal for Saskatchewan determined that the federal carbon backstop is not really a tax, but a regulatory scheme.
It rejected the federal argument holding that Ottawa has jurisdiction over “the cumulative dimensions of GHG emissions.”
But it upheld the carbon backstop nonetheless, accepting British Columbia’s argument that Ottawa has the right to set “minimal national standards of price stringency” for emissions to fight climate change.

        awhite-crummey@postmedia.com
      
