
# Woman dies following weekend accident on East Kilbride Road

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:04:49+00:00**

Author: **Fraser N Wilson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-n-wilson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/woman-dies-following-weekend-accident-20807571)

Police are appealing for information after a 62-year-old woman was killed on East Kilbride Road.
The incident happened around 8.15 pm on Sunday on the A749 Cathkin Bypass when a blue coloured Ford Focus collided with a blue coloured Volkswagen Golf.
Road traffic officers say the Focus was traveling southbound at the time when it collided with the Golf which was traveling eastbound on the Cathkin Bypass towards the roundabout junction with the A749.
The 68-year-old driver of the Focus and his female passenger were taken to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital by ambulance, however, the woman was sadly pronounced dead on arrival.
The driver is currently being treated for serious injuries and hospital staff describe his condition as “critical”.
The 38-year-old driver of the Golf car was taken to Hairmyres Hospital where he was treated for minor injuries before being released.
Sergeant Simon Reilly is appealing for witnesses to the crash and would also like to speak to anyone who has dashcam footage of the incident.
The accident resulted in lengthy tailbacks on the East Kilbride Expressway and Stewartfield Way on Sunday night.
One road user took to social media around 11pm to say traffic stretched back along the Expressway to Hamilton.
Anyone with any information should contact police on 101.
