
# The Onkyo TX-RZ630 4K Network A/V Receiver Is On Sale For $364

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:18:41+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-onkyo-tx-rz630-4k-receiver-sale-black-friday.html)

Amazon has the Onkyo TX-RZ630 A/V Receiver on sale today for just $364. That is $55 off of its regular price, and really the first price drop we've seen all year.
This A/V receiver is going to be great for those that are building a pretty large entertainment center. As you can connect everything into this receiver and have it all controlled with a single remote.
The Onkyo TX-RZ630 A/V Receiver has support for Dolby Atmos and DTS:x so you're going to get some really good sound out of this receiver. Especially if your TV and sound bar also support it. What's interesting here is that it can also be paired with your existing Sonos sound system. So you can instantly upgrade the music streaming capability of your home theater receiver with Sonos connect, all via a free firmware update.
Advertisement
There's a whopping seven HDMI ports on the backside, for connecting everything. There are two that support 4K/60Hz. All of these support HDR10, HLG, Dolby Vision, and HDCP 2.2 pass-through. Onkyo has also included a front-facing HDMI port for convenience.
Those that might have a TV, surround sound system, a few gaming consoles and a cable box, this Onkyo TX-RZ630 A/V Receiver is going to definitely be worth picking up. And according to the Black Friday ad-scans that we have already seen, this isn't going to get any cheaper when Black Friday rolls around in a few weeks. So now is the time to pick one up. A/V equipment and TVs are generally on sale cheaper before Black Friday than on Black Friday itself. So you'll want to get this one today, before it goes back up.
You can pick up the Onkyo TX-RZ630 A/V Receiver from Amazon today by clicking here. This price won't last long though, so you'll want to grab it before it's gone.
Advertisement

        Onkyo TX-RZ630 A/V Receiver - Amazon - $364
      
