
# ISL 2019-20 | We shouldn’t feel pressure to get first victory, says Carles Cuadrat

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:06:29+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/04/isl-2019-20-we-shouldnt-feel-pressure-to-get-first-victory-says-carles-cuadrat?utm_medium=rss)


        Bengaluru FC manager Carles Cuadrat has stated that he was happy with his players’ display in Jamshedpur, which was their third consecutive draw, and wanted his players to remain free of the pressure of first win in the league. He also revealed that Albert Serran injured his muscle in the match.
      
The curse of the defending champions has continued for the third consecutive season in ISL. After most of the defending champions have faltered to sustain their form in the immediate next season over the last three years, BFC haven’t been any exception. They have drawn against NorthEast United FC, FC Goa, and Jamshedpur FC so far, sitting seventh on the table with three points.
And while Cuadrat believed that his side should have had seven points at this stage, he has reiterated that he was very happy with his players and didn’t want them to feel any pressure. "Honestly, I think today was the only day that the opponents’ game was not very clear for us. But I’m very happy with the tactical game,” he said at the post-match press-conference, reported ISL website.
“We stopped the opponents very well and created chances. So, you must give credit to the players. We should have had a minimum of seven points at this stage of the league,” he added.
BFC had gotten some very clear chances in their match against JFC as well but sometime custodian Subrata Paul and sometimes bad finishing always came in their way. And Cuadrat acknowledged the same.
"We created a lot of chances, but the team is not the same. We lost many crucial players, and this affects the result. This happens all over the world, with every club. We are looking very steady and giving tough competition. We should not feel the pressure of getting the first victory, we have to keep working the way we are, and the wins will come."
A huge shot in the arm for the Blues was seeing Serran being stretchered off with yet another injury. The centre-half had just returned from one injury and had taken his place into the first eleven after a successful bench appearance against FC Goa. However, Cuadrat clarified that he didn’t rush the centre-half into the match. 
"He has been playing normally in training. But today, he injured his other muscle. These things happen sometimes when you play competitively after a long time. He was 100% fit to start the game, so the injury happened later and in the other muscle," he added.
