
# Pixel 4 ad shows it will be $200 off for Black Friday from the Google Store

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:06:33+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/pixel-4-ad-shows-it-will-be-200-black-friday-google-store?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Joe Maring / Android Central
      
It looks like Google is proving yet again that it pays to wait to pick up the latest Pixel phone. Recently, a Redditor spotted an ad for the Google Store online that revealed the Pixel 4 and 4 XL will be $200 off until December 2.
It doesn't mention when the sale will start, but seeing how it runs through Cyber Monday, we can assume it will start on November 22 for Black Friday. However, with stores starting Black Friday sales earlier and earlier each year, it's still quite possible we could see this promotion start even sooner.

        Source: jffbplaya247 on Reddit
      
At the moment, the Pixel 4 base model will run you $799, but with a $200 discount, you're looking at a much more reasonable $599 price tag. The Pixel 4 XL, on the other hand, starts at $899 regularly but will drop down to $699 once the sale begins.
That beats out last year's Pixel 3 deals where Google only offered $150 off the Pixel 3 models. Even so, it still doesn't match the leaked Target ad which is offering a $300 gift card with purchase of the Pixel 4. Then there's also been at least one mention of Best Buy offering the same $200 off deal for the Pixel 4 phones, meaning it could be seen across all retailers that carry them.
One thing's for sure though, if you've waited this long, it's certainly worth waiting a couple more weeks for these deals to go live before picking up your new shiny Pixel 4.
Always up to date
Google's latest and greatest smartphone has arrived in the form of the Pixel 4. It features the latest Snapdragon 855 processor, 6GB of RAM, a new face unlock system, and the ability to control your phone with hands-free motion gestures.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Android & Chill A look at why Fitbit users hated Google buying the company Some of the reasons are misguided and some are disingenuous. But for many, the real reason is that they just don't like Google.
      

        like! Instagram to test hiding likes in parts of the U.S. as of next week Instagram CEO Adam Mosseri has announced that it will start hiding likes on its platform beginning next week.
      

        Where's my battery? OnePlus phone batteries are being decimated by WhatsApp OnePlus users running Android 9 and 10 are seeing as much as 40% of their battery drained by WhatsApp.
      

        It's easy to see why these Pixel 4 XL cases are 'clear' winners The Pixel 4 XL is a big, beautiful phone. Keep it protected without covering its design with these stellar clear cases.
      
