
# LIVE ISL 2019-20 | Hyderabad FC vs NorthEast United FC - Match 16

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:03:01+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/live-isl-2019-20-hyderabad-fc-vs-north-east-united-fc-match-16?utm_medium=rss)


        Hyderabad FC will be hosting NorthEast United FC at the GMC Balayogi Athletic Stadium in Hyderabad on Wednesday. After a poor start to their ISL campaign, newcomers Hyderabad stunned Kerala Blasters 2-1 for their first-ever home game, while NorthEast United FC are unbeaten with two draws and a win.
      
After two heavy defeats at the hands of ATK and Jamshedpur FC, newcomers Hyderabad FC turned their fortunes at home by defeating Kerala Blasters FC 2-1. It was special because they managed to do that despite having half of their foreign stars on the injury table.
After NorthEast United had a disappointing draw after conceding a last-minute goal against a strong FC Goa side, Robert Jarni's side now has five points and are currently fourth on the table. However, Hyderabad FC with only 3 points sits are just above the ninth place above Chennaiyin FC.
With the confidence gained against Kerala Blasters, Hyderabad will look to continue their winning run although it won’t be easy for unlike Kerala, the Highlanders have shown way more discipline.
Former ISL golden boot winner Marcelniho scored a brilliant freekick goal against Kerala Blasters and will be the go-to man for Phil Brown. The Brazilian scored two goals this season in Hyderabad's total tally of three goals. It will be a huge burden for him to carry the attacks in the absence of major foreigners. Another key player to watch out for will be Adhil Khan in the Hyderabad camp.
For NorthEast United, Ghanian all-time top scorer Asamoah Gyan will be the danger man. He is in excellent form and has scored two goals in three games. Young Indian winger Redeem Tlang is also in a fine form with two goals and can wreck damage to the opposition. Highlanders’ captain Jose Luedo is another player to watch out for.
Hyderabad FC's injury problems are not over yet and it is almost an impossible task for Phil Brown to fill the foreign player quota. The injured foreigners are Rafael Lopez, Bobo, Giles Barnes. Youngster Sahil Panwar was seen getting added to the injured list of late. Moreover, Spanish midfielder Nestor Gordillo is suspended till December, which is the biggest blow.
On the other hand, Robert Jarni has the luxury of selecting players who are strong and fit. This is a huge advantage for the Highlanders over Hyderabad FC.
Both teams have contested each other 10 times ( Hyderabad FC formerly being Pune City FC). Both teams have four wins each with the rest two going to be a draw. 
Hyderabad FC: W-L-L
NorthEast United: D-W-D-L-L
Hyderabad FC: Kamaljit Singh, Gurtej Singh, Matthew Kilgallon, Mohammed Yasir, Adil Khan, Nikhil Poojary, Marko Stankovic, Rohit Kumar, Marcelo Pereira, Abhishek Halder, Robin Singh
NorthEast United: Subhasish Roy, Reegan Singh, Heerings Kai, Mislav Komorski, Rakesh Pradhan, Milan Singh, Jose Leudo, Redeem Tlang, Nikhil Kadam, Martin Chaves, Asamoah Gyan

        Phil Brown
      
The Englishman has played and managed several clubs in England. His notable stint was in the Premier League with Hull City, where they were promoted but could not avoid relegation in the same season. In India, he uplifted the struggling Pune City FC last season to a decent position in the table. It will be a huge responsibility for Phil to bring in new fans for Hyderabad FC.

        Robert Jarni
      
The former Croatian World Cupper has vast experiences as a defender in Europe and has played with current Indian national team coach Igor Stimac. The former Real Madrid defender has coached various clubs in the past decade and his last assignment was with the Croatian Under-19 team before coming to India. In his first ISL game, his team hold defending champions Bengaluru FC.
