
# Mane: What Klopp Told Us Ahead Of Epic Barca Comeback

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:33:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/uefa-champions-league/sadio-mane-what-jurgen-klopp-told-us-ahead-of-epic-fc-barcelona-comeback/666923)

With many still remembering Liverpool's incredible comeback against FC Barcelona in the UEFA Champions League semi-finals last season, Sadio Mane has now revealed what Jurgen Klopp told his players to spark the epic turnaround.

        
          Read: Pep Fires Dig At Liverpool's African Superstar
        
      
The Reds had lost the first leg at the Camp Nou 3-0, but manage to knock the Catalan giants following a 4-0 victory at Anfield in the return fixture.
Liverpool were missing Mohamed Salah and Roberto Firmino for the match but ended up celebrating one of the biggest comebacks in European history, and Mane has now revealed that Jurgen Klopp told them they would reach the final before that famous second leg tie.
Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies! 
"He always knows what to say, and even then, he finds a way to surprise you," the Senegalese told France Football.
"Like last season, before the second leg against FC Barcelona in the Champions League semi-finals. He said: 'Hey guys, I've got some good news for you. The good news is that Barcelona is a team that likes to play and we love playing against those (types of) teams.
"'You'll see. We're going to reach the final.'
"It really was the best way to take the pressure off us."

        
          Read: Klopp Reacts To Pep's Mane Comments
        
      
Braces from Divock Origi and Georginio Wijnaldum saw Liverpool turn the tie around, before they went on to beat Tottenham Hotspur in the final.
