
# Report: Omari Akhmedov meets Ian Heinisch at UFC 245 in December

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lucas Rezende**

Original: [Bloody Elbow](https://www.bloodyelbow.com/2019/11/5/20948960/report-omari-akhmedov-meets-ian-heinisch-at-ufc-245-in-december)

A middleweight bout has been the latest addition to the already stacked UFC 245 card. Per ESPN’s report, Ian Heinisch will take on Omari Akhmedov at the upcoming Las Vegas card.
Undefeated in the Octagon for the past three years, Akhmedov (19-4-1) defeated the likes of Kyle Noke, Abdul Razak Alhassan, Tim Boetsch and most recently Zak Cummings. He won those bouts by decision and also fought Marvin Vettori to a majority draw back in 2017. The last man to defeat the 32-year-old was Elizeu Zaleski in April 2016.
After two successful UFC outings, in which he defeated both Cezar Ferreira and Antonio Carlos Junior via unanimous decision, Heinisch (13-2) hit a bump in his last fight, dropping a unanimous decision to veteran Derek Brunson, back in August.
Now, Akhmedov is expected to meet Heinisch at UFC 245, on December 14, in Las Vegas, Nevada. The card is scheduled to be headlined by a welterweight title fight between the champion, Kamaru Usman, and former interim title holder Colby Covington.
Additionally, two more title bouts are scheduled on the same night. Featherweight king Max Holloway will fight Alexander Volkanovski, and champ-champ Amanda Nunes will defend her featherweight belt against former title holder Germaine de Randamie.
