
# “Time To Grow Up”: Miranda Devine Has Waded Into The Veronicas Vs. Qantas Beef

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:33:48+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Earp**

Original: [Junkee](https://junkee.com/miranda-devine-veronicas-qantas/228013)

Cast your mind back to a few weeks ago, and you may distantly be able to recall that pop duo The Veronicas got into a beef with service staff on a Qantas flight.
The whole thing was something of a mess. The Veronicas claimed that they were just asking for help with their baggage when they were kicked off the flight. The airline, meanwhile, claimed that the two had not been following safety instructions from the crew.
Really, that game of ‘he said, she said’ should have been it. But instead, The Veronicas spent days appearing on panel shows and posting endlessly on social media in an attempt to clear their name. The beef was ugly, and it was odd, and it was everywhere.
Well, if that wasn’t tricky enough, now the whole debacle has been reignited thanks to right-wing columnist Miranda Devine. Yep, Devine, who spends much of her time defending convicted paedophile Cardinal George Pell, took a break from her usual reporting to criticise the behaviour of The Veronicas.
In her paywalled column, Devine called the incident “embarrassing” and pinned it on the pop duo’s decision to treat airline staff like “Sherpas.”
The column outlines the beef, noting that The Veronicas claim they needed help from airline staff because of their diminutive height. “Your luggage, your responsibility,” writes Devine, who further opines that because the pair are short, they shouldn’t need to “pack much” and their bags “should be light enough to hoist into the overhead locker.”
At least one part of the column is on the money — Devine notes that the endless public whinging from the pair has hurt their reputation. “Qantas delivered the consequences for bad behaviour that The Veronicas’ parents must never have taught them,” Devine writes.
“But instead of learning a lesson, they’re rampaging around demanding answers from Qantas and using their media profile to trash the airline.”
