
# Laura Anderson shares snap of boob job scars and tells of plastic surgery regrets

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:19:44+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/laura-anderson-shares-snap-boob-20801382)

Laura Anderson has bravely shared a snap of the scar under her bust as she revealed her regret at having breast implants.
The Love Island 2018 star, 30, posted the candid photograph on her Instagram page and urged fans to remember surgery 'has consequences.'
Revealing with hindsight she should have never gone under the knife, the Scottish star penned how she regrets altering her body.
Laura warned fans of her scar snap, that showed an extreme close up of where her skin had been stitched up post-surgery, by writing: "Swipe right for the not so faint hearted."
She then candidly shared: "Recently I decided to undergo a breast reduction. I had my first breast augmentation at 18 (12 years ago).
"After this length of time its normal to consider a replacement. I just want to make clear that even though at 18 years old I was very mature for my age (more mentally) I really had no idea who I was or what I was doing to my body."
Explaining her experience, she added: "Here’s what they don’t tell you, every surgery has repercussions years down the line so this quick fix mentality which we all suffer from from time to time will most definitely come back to bite you in the ass. It's not like buying a pair of jeans that don’t fit so you just take them back. Theres no refunds when it comes to interfering with our bodies.
"Being completely honest, after seeing myself on TV I realised that my chest looked way too big for my frame and after many shooting pains in my left boob I knew it was time for a change.
"My original implants were so large that over time I’ve actually stretched my skin and breast pocket so much that I was told my choices would now be limited. This is just something I would never have thought about all those years ago."
Detailing her regret, she told: "If I could have it my way, I’d go back and never have my first surgery at all. Having no implants and to be natural is honestly the person I feel inside. I just want to say to young girls or guys out there that think surgery is the answer to all their problems, just know the decision to go under the knife is huge and really has its consequences."
Laura ended the post: "My message to you is yes fashion changes, but our bodies don’t need to!"
In response to her open admission, fans of the reality TV personality took to the comments with kind messages.
One offered: "Really respect you for doing this. Brave, truthful and needed post!"
"Thank you for being so honest. I’m going to make sure my 3 daughters read this," contributed a social media user.
Another added: "A lot of respect for coming out and giving your honest Opinion and telling everyone your situation/story. Hopefully this will help others make the right choice."
