
# Wishaw shop is refused permission to extend its hours to sell alcohol by licensing board

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:09:18+00:00**

Author: **Wishaw Press, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/wishaw-press/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/wishaw-shop-refused-permission-extend-20815808)

A bid to expand a Wishaw store’s alcohol licence has been thrown out by the council.
The local authority’s Licensing Board refused the proposals from Maxton Stores in Coltness, pictured following a lengthy meeting.
The bid from the store, based in Maxton Crescent, to expand its ability to sell booze from within its shop was opposed by members of Coltness Community Council.
The group’s chairman John Carr spoke to the Board regarding its reasons for opposing the application.
 
He said: “If the application had been granted then it would have massively increased the floorspace for the store to sell drink.
“We know from speaking to police that Maxton Crescent can be a hotspot for antisocial behaviour so we thought this would be a step too far.
“What would be the benefit to Coltness?
“The area is already saturated with shops which are able to sell drink.”
Last month, police told a meeting of the community council that crime had decreased by a whopping 42 per cent compared with the same period 12 months ago.
PC Alan Brown, from Wishaw Police Office, told that meeting: “We have also only had 100 calls to police in the past month compared to 206 the previous year. That is a significant reduction.”
Speaking this week, John Carr added: “At the moment we are not getting as much antisocial behaviour but that’s only because of efforts from a number of different agencies.
“We are hoping that this trend continues in the coming months.
“Hopefully we can draw a line under this and now move forward.”
 
A North Lanarkshire Council spokesperson confirmed the plans had not been granted.
She said: “The Licensing Board considered an application for a Variation of Licensed Premises from Maxton Stores at its meeting on Friday, October 25.
“An objection was submitted by the community council.
“Following a hearing, the Board decided to refuse the application.”
The Wishaw Press made several attempts to contact Maxton Stores. However, no comment was received at the time of going to print.
