
# Exclusive Preview: Superman: Up in the Sky #5

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:48:26+00:00**

Author: **Blair Marnell**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/471082-exclusive-preview-superman-up-in-the-sky-5)

Tom King and artist Andy Kubert have teamed up to tell an extended story about the Last Son of Krypton. While Superman normally stays on Earth, he’s had to temporarily abandon his adopted planet in Up in the Sky. A young girl was kidnapped and taken into space, and Superman has vowed to bring her home. Unfortunately, he may have to compromise himself to keep that promise.
In Superhero Hype’s exclusive preview from Superman: Up in the Sky #5, the Man of Steel makes an agreement with Darkseid. However, the evil god of Apokolips never gives favors without a price. Superman also encounters a dying alien whose sole wish is to be put out of his misery.
Here’s the official description from DC.
“Darkseid offers to help Superman in his quest to rescue the Earth girl Alice-but that help comes at a cost! Then, the Man of Steel is treated to a vision of his life at home with his friends and family-but a far grimmer reality is about to in.”
You can read the full preview in our gallery below. Superman: Up in the Sky #5 will hit comic book stores on Wednesday, November 6.
What did you think about the preview? Let us know in the comment section below!

        Recommended Reading: Superman: Birthright
      

        We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
      
