
# Valencia cruise to a 1-2 win over Espanyol at Rcde Stadium

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:14:05+00:00**

Author: **SPORT.es**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/laliga/valencia-cruise-to-a-1-2-win-over-espanyol-at-rcde-stadium-7711522)

Espanyol defeated at home by Valencia at Rcde Stadium on Saturday. Espanyol wanted to improve their position in the tournament after losing against Athletic 3-0 while Valencia had to settle for a draw in the last match played of the competition. Following today's result, Espanyol is 19th in the LaLiga table with 8 points from 12 matches, while Valencia sits 8th with 17 points after 12 matches.
The first 45 minutes was in favour of Espanyol, with a goal from Marc Roca in the 31st minute, finalising the first half with a 1-0.
Valencia boosted the game in the second half, thanks to a goal from Dani Parejo in the 69th minute. Later, Valencia scored once more and turned the match 1-2 thanks to a goal from Maxi Gómez in the 80th minute, finalising the game with a 1-2.
As for substitutions, both coaches used full substitutions. For Espanyol, Matías Vargas, Víctor Campuzano Bonilla and Esteban Granero came on for Lei Wu, Facundo Ferreyra and Sergi Darder, while Valencia brought on Manu Vallejo, Rubén Sobrino and José Luis Gayá to replace Denis Cheryshev, Ferrán Torres and Rubén Sobrino.
The referee booked Geoffrey Kondogbia for Valencia.
Espanyol will play against Atlético de Madrid at away stadium, while Valencia will face Granada at home stadium.
