
# Porto feeling Rangers heat as Sergio Conceicao reveals 'an environment of distrust' from fans

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:40:58+00:00**

Author: **Mark Walker**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/porto-feeling-rangers-heat-sergio-20807393)

Porto head to Ibrox under immense pressure as coach Sergio Conceicao admits there's "an environment of distrust" surrounding the club.
The Portuguese giants warmed up for their Europa League clash with Rangers by beating Aves 1-0 on Sunday night but fans were not impressed with the performance.
Aves are bottom of the Primeira Liga and Porto supporters whistled the team in the course of the narrow win.
Conceicao said: "This is an environment of distrust surrounding the club at the moment and it is not good for the players.
"I want to say to the fans that they have always been our 12th man since I've been here and I want that to return again.
"There will be days where it doesn't go for you and the fans have to understand that. But we need to stick together, me, the players and the supporters.
 
"The important thing was the result - people remember results, not performances. Of course we wanted to play better and create momentum, but we have probably created around 20 chances in our last three games. We have to credit the opposition too.
"We will now focus on the Rangers game. I have no comment on whether we will rotate. No coach in the world would tell you that many days before the game."
