
# 22 Baby-Faced Actors Who Fooled Us by Playing Teenage Characters

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/wonder-films/22-baby-faced-actors-who-fooled-us-by-playing-teenage-characters-794660/)

While age matters in the entertainment industry, some actors and actresses can really make you believe that they are high schoolers, when in fact they are much older. These artists have faces that make you think that they never age. Bianca Lawson, for example, got away with playing a teenager for 2 decades!
We at Bright Side were pleasantly surprised to discover that these youthful looking actors and actresses are actually much older than the roles they took on.
Grey was 27 when she played 17-year-old Baby in Dirty Dancing.
The actor was 23 when he starred as the 17-year-old Daniel LaRusso in The Karate Kid (1984).
Lawson seems forever young, having played teenage characters for over 20 years. She was in her 20s when she filmed Dawson’s Creek and Save the Last Dance. In her 30s, she was a teen on popular shows like Pretty Little Liars and in The Vampire Diaries.
Union was 28 when she portrayed a teen cheerleader in Bring It On.
DiCaprio put his young looks to good use as teenager Frank Abagnale in Catch Me If You Can. He was 28 at the time.
The petite actress was 24 years old when she began filming Veronica Mars, where she was a high schooler in the earlier seasons.
The Modern Family star was a 22-year-old who pulled off the character of a teen cheerleader and class president in Struck By Lightning.
Known for her role as Moaning Myrtle in the Harry Potter series, the actress was 36 when she first appeared as the young witch.
Fox started filming as the teenage Marty McFly when he was 24 years old.
Holly Golightly in Breakfast at Tiffany’s was 19 years old while Hepburn, who played her, was 32 at the time.
Jones was 30 when she acted in Breathe In as a high schooler.
In Hannah Montana, he played 16-year-old Jackson Stewart, but in reality, he was 29 when he began playing this role.
Murray was actually 28 years old when she went on screen in Riverdale as the teenager Josie McCoy.
Clarke was 25 when she portrayed the 16-year-old Daenerys Targaryen in Game of Thrones.
The actress was 27 when she began playing the role of 16-year-old Lane Kim, Rory’s best friend in Gilmore Girls.
Thomas was 31 when he played teenager Derek Reynolds in Save the Last Dance alongside Julia Stiles.
Kinney played 18-year-old Beth Greene in The Walking Dead. She was 28 when she first starred as the teenager.
Her character in The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants was a teenager. She was 24 then.
He was 24 when he starred as the teenager, Newt, in The Maze Runner.
Grace was 25 when she acted as the abducted ,17-year-old daughter in Taken.
20-year-old Page pulled off the character of a pregnant 16-year-old in Juno.
Mulligan played a character who was a decade younger than her actual age in The Great Gatsby. She was 28 and Daisy Buchanan, the character in the movie, was 17 years old.
Did these actors and actresses trick you into believing that they were teenagers? Do you know any other actors who look younger than their real age?
Preview photo credit The Karate Kid / Columbia Pictures
