
# Dad collapses and dies trying to eat 50 eggs as part of £20 bet

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:33:48+00:00**

Author: **Amber Hicks, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/dad-collapses-dies-trying-eat-20820778)

A dad collapsed and died trying to eat 50 eggs as part of a £20 bet.
Subhash Yadav was about to take a bite out of the 42nd one when he dropped to the ground.
The 42-year-old never regained consciousness and died a few hours later.
Police said that Subhash and his friend had gone to a market area in Jaunpur, India, when an argument broke out between the pair.
They then challenged each other to eat 50 eggs for 2,000 rupees (£21).
Subhash accepted the bet and managed to scoff 41 before he collapsed and fell unconscious, reports Gulf News.
Doctors ruled that his death was due to overeating.
His family have not publicly commented on the incident.
Subhash is understood to have had four daughters from his first marriage.
He married again just nine months ago and was set to became a father for the fifth time. 
Earlier this year, a woman blacked out and stopped breathing as she tried to see how many Jaffa Cakes she could fit in her mouth for a party trick.
Mother-of-one Bethan Gaskin got the snacks lodged in her throat as she desperately tried to spit them out.
The 24-year-old collapsed at home in Bourne, Lincolnshire, on Friday, February 22 and was rushed to hospital.
The beauty therapist suffered a heart attack and died five days later at Peterborough City Hospital.
Her devastated adoptive mum Michele spoke out to warn other people of the dangers of extreme food challenges.
