
# IGP says Jho Low still hiding ‘like a chicken’, but not in Cyprus

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:22:05+00:00**

Author: **BY KENNETH TEE**

Original: [Malaymail](https://www.malaymail.com/news/malaysia/2019/11/06/igp-says-jho-low-still-hiding-like-a-chicken-but-not-in-cyprus/1807431)

KUALA LUMPUR, Nov 6 ― Bukit Aman only found out about 1MDB fugitive financier Jho Low’s real estate purchases in the eastern Mediterranean island of Cyprus three to four weeks ago, Tan Sri Abdul Hamid Bador disclosed today.
The inspector-general of police said the latest lead came to light after the Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Financing Prevention (AMLA) division’s successful arrests of several people.
“From these arrests, we have successfully deconstruct and obtained information that Jho Low was attempting to purchase properties under a different alias in Cyprus,” he told a news conference at the  Royal Malaysian Police College here today.
He did not elaborate on the arrests.
The IGP also rejected claims that the businessman born Low Taek Jho — said to be behind the theft of billions of dollars from the sovereign investment fund — was currently lying low on Cyprus after allegedly receiving its passport.
Abdul Hamid maintained his previous assertion that Low was lying low in an unnamed country under the protection of certain powerful personalities.
“I have said before, it is impossible for him to leave the country he is hiding in with ease. He is still there hiding, like a chicken,” the IGP said.
He added that the Penang-born was unlikely to go to Cyprus as his Chinese Malaysian facial features were distinct from its natives.
“He would have been very recognisable.”
Until recently, Low has been thought to be hiding out in China and controlling his remaining business interests from various parts of the country.

        MORE TO COME
      
