
# Blind date: ‘I felt self-conscious about my filling’

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:24+00:00**

Author: **Guardian Staff**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2019/nov/02/blind-date-allegra-charlie)


        Charlie, 24, trainee solicitor, meets Allegra, 20 dental student
      
What were you hoping for?A fun time, good food and an interesting story.
First impressions?Friendly, nice eyes, a little nervous.
What did you talk about?The Bristol food scene, cooking, dentistry, his lawyering, how we are both sarcastic and the awkward situations it gets us into. There were a fair few pictures of his very cute niece, and many pictures of my brother’s wedding.
Any awkward moments?Maybe when he said he hadn’t been to the dentist in three years.
Good table manners?Pretty good, although a bit weak, because he didn’t finish his pie.
Best thing about Charlie?Similar levels of sarcasm, and our mutual love for Bristol street food chain Chilli Daddy.
Would you introduce him to your friends?I would, but I don’t think they’d have too much to talk about.
Describe Charlie in three words?Sweet, sarcastic, quiet.
What do you think he made of you?He probably thought I was a bit much. I talked a lot (word-vomited), but mainly because he wasn’t really returning my questions.
Did you go on somewhere?No, the night had reached a natural conclusion.
And... did you kiss?A kiss was not on the cards. I’m not sure there was attraction on either side.
If you could change one thing about the evening, what would it be?To have a bit more of a spark/have it feel a bit more date-y. I would have talked less about dentistry.
Marks out of 10?A solid 6. It wasn’t bad, but felt like a dinner with one of those friends you don’t know what to say to. (Also, he said he’d follow my food Instagram and didn’t.)
Would you meet again?He was really sweet, but it’s going to have to be a no from me. Sorry, Charlie.
What were you hoping for?Specifically, not a 20-year-old student.
First impressions?Great dungarees.
What did you talk about?Dentistry, Bristol v London, the perennial dogs conversation, more dentistry, her food Instagram, her Instagram detailing the horrid things boys send on Tinder, and a bit more dentistry.
Any awkward moments?I felt quite self-conscious about my metallic filling.
Good table manners?Excellent. And she was quite sympathetic to me struggling to navigate the sourdough starter.
Best thing about Allegra?She employed sarcasm well, and I was inspired to bring forward my next dental appointment.
Would you introduce her to your friends?Of course. They might want to see their dental hygienist first, though.
Describe Allegra in three words?Floss. Every. Morning.
What do you think she made of you?Somewhat charming, somewhat aloof.
Did you go on somewhere?Alas, no.
And… did you kiss?I don’t think we had that kind of connection.
If you could change one thing about the evening, what would it be?That we had got through more of the bar tab.
Marks out of 10?6.
Would you meet again?We’re at different stages in our lives, so unfortunately not.
• Allegra and Charlie ate at The Kensington Arms, Bristol.
Fancy a blind date? Email blind.date@theguardian.com. If you’re looking to meet someone like‑minded, visit soulmates.theguardian.com
