
# McDonald's will deliver McMuffins to your house for free tomorrow morning

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:51:36+00:00**

Author: **Molly Holt, Max Channon**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/local-news/mcdonalds-deliver-mcmuffins-your-house-3492298)

The weather is going to be shocking tomorrow morning and England are playing South Africa in the Rugby World Cup final, so you're not going to want to leave the house.
Given that, what could be better than getting breakfast delivered to your door?
Getting it delivered for free is the obvious answer - and McDonald's will do just that, reports The Mirror. 
McDonald's has just announced that it's offering free delivery on all McDonald's breakfast orders.
To coincide with the Rugby World Cup tomorrow (Saturday 2 November), the fast food chain is ditching the delivery fee on all breakfast orders, so that fans of both food and sport can get their pre-match McMuffin delivered to their sofa for free.
Usually £3.50, it will be available via Uber Eats to both new and existing customers, the free delivery will be available on McDonald's orders only - and you'll need a discount code to get it.
If you're in the UK, you'll need to use the code  MCDELIVERYUK19  and if you're in Ireland, use  MCDELIVERYIR19  instead.
You'll be able to order yours alongside the free delivery from between 5am and 12pm midday, meaning that the code will still work after breakfast finishes, to make way for any post-match (hopefully celebratory!) snacks.
McDelivery is now available in over 950 restaurants, with McDonald's apparently expecting a big uplift in breakfast orders tomorrow as hungry fans watch the big match.
All that's left to wonder is... is it socially acceptable to get McDonald's for both breakfast and lunch?
