
# Anchor Brewing Releases Its 45th Christmas Ale Since Prohibition

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Emily Price**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/emilyprice/2019/11/02/anchor-brewing-releases-its-45th-christmas-ale-since-prohibition/)

Anchor Brewing Company announced the release of its 2019 Christmas Ale this week, marking the 45th year the beer has been available.“We are committed to preserving Anchor Christmas Ale’s signature style while adding new ingredients to enhance this annual delicacy. Slightly darker than last year’s Christmas Ale, the 2019 edition is layered with toasted caramel and coffee flavors with subtle hints of Mexican chocolate, rounded out with herbaceous spices. Crack open a bottle for a spiced whiff of western evergreens, roasted malts and coastal flowers,” shared Anchor Brewmaster, Scott Ungermann.
 “It’s a rich, round and full bodied-treat with a silky, smooth finish. Christmas Ale is best served in a big open glass at a table full of family and friends.” 
45 years ago Anchor released the very first holiday beer in America since Prohibition. Each year it relives that tradition by once again brewing the spiced beer, which gets a new, hand-drawn label each year.
This year’s label was illustrated by Jim Stitt, who has illustrated the labels every year since 1975.
Those spices in the beer also evolve over time, which makes the beer exceptionally popular or side by side tastings. While this year and last year’s beers are technically the same, they’ll taste very different when consumed side by side today.
“People love to align past Christmas Ale styles in vertical tastings,” said Ungermann. “An added bonus of this holiday tradition is that the beer can age gracefully for years to come.”  
The beer has a 6.9% ABV and will be available between now and mid-January.
