
# Here's the 'real' reason why the Google Pixel 4 lacks 4K/60fps support

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:19:09+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/heres-reason-why-google-pixel-4-series-lacks-4k60fps-support?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
In an interview with the The Vergecast, Pixel camera product manager Isaac Reynolds revealed that Google reached out to wedding photographers to help build the Pixel 4's face retouching feature. According to Reynolds, Google did not want to cross certain lines such as making faces appear thinner or lips larger. The feature instead gets rid of small features such as pores on faces, to get rid of "what you look like today that isn't you." In addition to removing such features, the camera also raises the exposure to add a "glow" to the user's face.
When asked why the Pixel 4 series is not capable of capturing 4K videos at 24 or 60fps, Reynolds replied (via Reddit) saying "nobody needs those things." He added that while the two phones have the required memory bandwidth to support 4K video capture at 60fps, certain other components do not support the feature.
Last month, XDA Developers editor-in-chief Mishaal Rahman had found evidence that Google had initially planned to add 4K/60fps support to the Pixel 4 series but decided to pull the feature due to the high storage requirements.
The Google Pixel 4 series is among the few Android flagships currently that top out at 4K/30fps video recording. Latest flagship phones from Android OEMs like Samsung, OnePlus, LG, Xiaomi, ASUS, and a few other brands support 4K video capture at up to 60fps.
The Google Pixel 4 XL, with its 6.3-inch 90Hz Smooth Display and impressive camera performance is currently one of the best options out there if you are an Android purist. It also offers a few pretty unique features such as Soli-powered Motion Sense and 3D facial recognition. The phone supports wireless charging as well and is IP68 certified for dust and water resistance
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Still alive Microsoft is building Cortana into Outlook with smart AI features Cortana is expanding into new areas as Microsoft beings integrating the virtual assistant into Microsoft 365, starting with Outlook. Users inside Outlook will soon be able to take advantage of Cortana and allow it to work for you by organizing your calendar, emails, and more.
      

        Megapixels Samsung Galaxy S11 tipped to come with an "improved" 108MP camera sensor If Chinese tipster Ice Universe is to be believed, Samsung Galaxy S11 will feature a new 108MP camera sensor.
      

        Office Hub Microsoft announces new all-in-one Office Mobile app for Android A new Office app for Android and iOS is on the way that combines the power of Word, Excel, and PowerPoint into one convenient app instead of three.
      

        It's easy to see why these Pixel 4 XL cases are 'clear' winners The Pixel 4 XL is a big, beautiful phone. Keep it protected without covering its design with these stellar clear cases.
      
