
# Jeep Built Miami-Themed Special Editions of the Wrangler and Gladiator

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:51:00+00:00**

Author: **Annie White**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/jeep-built-miami-themed-special-165100830.html)


        From Car and Driver
      
Jeep's Wrangler and Gladiator seem made to be modified. The latest proof, if you needed any, is that the Miami auto show is featuring a pair of Jeeps trimmed out specifically with South Florida in mind. They're called Three O Five (in honor of the city's area code, by which locals often refer to the Miami area) and they will feature edition-specific hood graphics and fender decals. They also, naturally, feature parts from Chrysler's aftermarket arm, Mopar. Only 305 will be made, all of them distributed among dealers in the Miami area.
The Wrangler Three O Five is based on the Sport S trim and will come with that model's standard 2.0-liter turbocharged engine and eight-speed automatic transmission. It comes standard with LED headlights, a power-folding top, a black fuel door, a black grille from Jeep Performance Parts, a 7.0-inch touchscreen radio, fender decals depicting a kite surfer, and (may we say) garish hood decals spelling out the special edition's name. This special Wrangler is painted white, with the decals in black and red, respectively.
The special-edition Gladiator is also based on a Sport S model but comes with a 3.6-liter V-6 and an all-terrain tire package, but without the power-folding top or the off-color fuel door. The Three O Five Gladiator is painted red and has the same fender and hood graphics as the Wrangler, but this time the hood graphic is in a contrasting white.
In addition to those standard features, the cars on display at the Miami auto show will have tube doors in place of real doors, a winch and mount with a Fairlead mount kit, a two-inch lift, Katzkin leather seats, two separate LED off-road light kits, steel front bumpers, and rock rails from Jeep Performance Parts.
The 305 lucky people who buy these special-edition Jeeps will have the option of upgrading their vehicles with all of that special equipment. Of the models Jeep produces, 255 will be Wranglers and 50 will be Gladiators.

        You Might Also Like
      
