
# Mayambela: We need to fully support the new coach

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:43:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/mayambela-we-need-to-fully-support-the-new-coach-20191107)

Cape Town - Cape Town midfielder Mark Mayambela admits it was not easy for the players to see Benni McCarthy leave the club, but they have to be fully behind the new coach.
McCarthy was sacked as head coach late on Sunday and the Citizens have moved quickly to replace the former Bafana striker.
Dutch coach Jan Olde Riekerink, who had spells at big clubs in Europe such as Ajax Amsterdam, Galatasaray and Heerenveen was announced as the new mentor of the Cape club on Thursday.
Myamabela, who signed for City this season only after McCarthy pressured chairman John Comitis to strike a deal, says the club is more important than one individual.
"Well like in any other team it's not easy you see. Coach Benni was here for three seasons," Mayambela told KickOff.
"So, the players were used to him, used to his way of playing, his way of doing things. It's never easy to lose a coach.
"But then what's important for us now is to support the team, and to support the decision that the team made. To support the coaches that will be here.
"We also need to support fully the new coach. Because at the end of the day the team is more important than any player or any person.
"What is important is the team and making sure that the team progresses and does better."
Cape Town started life after McCarthy with a 5-3 victory over Polokwane City on Wednesday for just their second win of the league season.

        
          - TeamTalk Media
        
      
