
# Christmas tree guide tells you the number of decorations you should be using for perfect look

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:19:23+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Luke Matthews, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/christmas-tree-guide-tells-you-17203543)

A unique Christmas tree guide shows the correct amount of decorations to get the perfect look.
The decoration guide reveals the right amount of baubles and lights for your Christmas tree.
December is fast approaching with Birmingham set to welcome the German Christmas Market this week.
Tinsel is being dusted off, the Wham vinyl is being taken out of its cover, and selection boxes are being stocked up.
And, to help you with your decorating, there's now a handy guide to tell you exactly how many decorations you should be using.
 
A post shared on the  Mrs Hinch Made Me Do It   Facebook  group reveals the winning ratio for baubles and lights depending on the height of your tree.
Promising to take your tree from 'bare to barely any branches left', it suggest a 3ft tree should be decked out with 20 baubles and a string of 50 lights, reports the Mirror .
A 6ft tree will take 240 bulbs and 50 baubles and if you're lucky enough to have room for a tree over 7ft (the bigger the better) then you can use between 400-1,000 lights and 90 baubles depending on the size of the whopper,  as reported by The Sun  .
If you're worried that your hours of hard work will come crashing down the moment your back is turned thanks to little hands or claws, then Argos has the perfect option for you.
 
The store is  selling half Christmas trees  for parents of little ones and pets who can't resist playing with your decorations, which has a bare bottom half with branches starting half way up to keep them out of reach.
Argos also says the trees are a great space-saver, as they are able to slide in next to furniture or simply leaving more room for prezzies, with prices starting at £40.
