
# Wishaw school gears up for 50th anniversary with two special shows

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:26:56+00:00**

Author: **Gregor Farquharson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gregor-farquharson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/wishaw-school-gears-up-50th-20823302)

It’s a golden time for pupils at St Thomas’ Primary as they prepare for their 50th birthday celebrations.
The school will perform two special shows at Motherwell Concert Hall, next February 3 and 4.
Co-ordinating the event is ex-pupil Garry King. He said: “This show is all about bringing the community together.
“We have a show of singing, dancing and acting. It involves all 270 pupils and will be absolutely massive.”
Garry runs Go Kids Scotland, an all-ages drama school.
“Go-Kids Scotland is open to everyone and everyone, I wanted to make it affordable and accessible,” he said.
“What the kids at St Thomas’ are getting is a once-in-a-lifetime chance to perform on stage.
“Some of them will have never been able to have this opportunity before.”
Garry gets 45 minutes a week with each class to help perfect their moves and learn the words.
“I am in the school every Tuesday and Wednesday and spend time with the pupils.
“I’ve been going since August, but it takes so long to organise 270 kids for a show in front of 2,000 people.”
He is also seeking help from the wider community to help find old pupils of the school.
He added: “We have a form on the Go Kids Scotland Facebook page for ex-pupils to tell us where they are now.
“There’s bound to be some brilliant stories from people who went to the school.”
Tickets for both shows are available from culturenl.co.uk/st-thomas-primary/.
