
# TSMC will hire 8,000 employees to develop 3-nanometer chips

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:05:42+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/tsmc-will-hire-8000-employees-to-develop-3-nanometer-chips/)

TSMC will hire 8,000 employees to develop 3-nanometer chips5 (100%) 2 votes
After TSMC’s 5 nanometer investments, the company is already looking ahead. Mark Liu, executive president of TSMC has announced that the company will hire 8000 employees for a new research and development center that should be completed by 2020.
The research center will focus on the development of the 3-nanometer production process, on which the work has already started for some time, and on future processes. The center will be located in the northern part of Taiwan (Baoshan Township, Hsinchu County).
At the end of 2018, TSMC had 49,000 employees, so the addition of another 8000 people represents a strong increase in its research and development capacity. In the third quarter of 2019, the Taiwanese producer spent 769 million dollars on research and development. With a 10% increase compared to the same period in 2018.
TSMC has recently begun construction of a $ 19.5 billion manufacturing facility that will produce 3-nanometer chips starting in 2023. Technologically speaking, the Taiwanese foundry is working with customers and progress in the development of technology is going well. The 3nm process will be different from the 5nm with an improvement in performance and power consumption. Similar to that between 7nm and 5nm.
Overall, TSMC has invested 50 billion dollars in developing the production processes that are used today by its customers. Recall that in recent weeks the company has expressed its intention to invest an additional 4 billion dollars. In machinery to expand the production of 7 and 5-nanometer chips. Of these, 1.5 billion will go to 7 nanometers, while 2.5 billion to 5 nanometers.
