
# Joaquin Phoenix opens up about the chances of a sequel to hit film Joker

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:01:04+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/joaquin-phoenix-opens-up-chances-20806066)

Joaquin Phoenix has teased the idea of a Joker sequel in the years ahead.
Fans will be very interested to read his comments - but he says he won't do one just for the sake of it.
The star has earned rave reviews for his performance which followed the dark journey of failed comedian Arthur Fleck
It saw him turn into a dangerous killer in a bleak view of Gotham City in the 1980s - and fans couldn't get enough.
Now another movie isn't being ruled out.
In an interview with the LA Times, he appears to not be ruling anything out and joked that he told director Todd Phillips they should get going on the next one before the last film finished.
“Long before the release or before we had any idea if it would be successful, we talked about sequels,” the actor said.
“In the second or third week of shooting, I was like, ‘Todd, can you start working on a sequel? There’s way too much to explore.’ It was kind of in jest - but not really.
“I basically said, ‘You could take this character and put him in any movie’."
Phillips says that he and Phoenix would only do one if there was a "compelling creative reason".
“We haven’t talked about it a ton,” the director said. “We’ve only talked about the fact that if we ever did one - and I’m not saying we are because right now we’re not - it couldn’t just be this wild and crazy movie about the ‘Clown Prince of Crime.’
"That just doesn’t interest us. It would have to have some thematic resonance in a similar way that this does.
“Because I think that’s ultimately why the movie connected. I think the reason why it’s resonating is what’s going on underneath the movie.
"So many movies are about the spark, and this movie is about the powder. If you could capture that again in a real way, that would be interesting.
"The quote was, 'I will do anything Joaquin wants to do.' And I would.
"But the movie's not set up to have a sequel. We always pitched it as one movie, and that's it."
