
# Husband Giving Vasectomy Ring Made Of His Own Sperm As Christmas Gift To Wife

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:55:04+00:00**

Author: **Cameron Frew**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/life/husband-giving-vasectomy-ring-made-of-his-own-sperm-as-christmas-gift-to-wife/)


        ‘On the first day of Christmas, my true love gave to me… a ring made out of his own spunk.’ 
      
At the end of November, a husband will undergo the snip. He’ll soon be without his precious sperm – but with Christmas fast approaching, he’s got the perfect way to immortalise his manhood.
Forget chocolates, flowers and lingerie, this man is going all in with jewellery for his wife. However, there’s a twist: he’s wanting to give her a ring made out of his sperm.
The dad-of-five is armed with £1,500, and has reached out to online marketplace Bark to find a willing person to help him. Hopefully someone comes forward soon…

        The loving husband told The Sun: 
      
Super weird? Maybe. Hilarious? Definitely. He had the brainwave after reading about rings made from breast milk, inspiring him to look into turning his semen into a dazzling piece of jewellery.
The husband and wife have been together for more than 20 years, and have been known to give each other lots of quirky, light-hearted gifts.

        Explaining that he’s not a ‘complete nutter’, the husband added: 
      
With the big day quickly approaching, it’ll soon be crunch time for the ring. Kai Feller, co-founder of Bark, is urging people to come forward to help make this husband’s wet dream a reality.

        Feller said:
      
Wait till she gets a load of this!

        Cameron Frew
      
After graduating from Glasgow Caledonian University with an NCTJ and BCTJ-accredited Multimedia Journalism degree, Cameron ventured into the world of print journalism at The National, while also working as a freelance film journalist on the side, becoming an accredited Rotten Tomatoes critic in the process. He’s now left his Scottish homelands and took up residence at UNILAD as a journalist.
