
# Arsenal defender William Saliba facing lengthy spell out after suffering broken foot

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:25:46+00:00**

Author: **Alex Milne**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-defender-william-saliba-facing-20828949)

William Saliba faces yet another spell on the sidelines after suffering a broken foot in his Saint-Etienne side's 1-0 victory over Monaco at the weekend.
The 18-year-old centre-back joined Arsenal for a fee of £27m from the French club during the summer but was immediately sent back on a season-long loan.
He has suffered a frustrating campaign so far, missing the start of the season while he recovered from an abductor muscle injury.
He has been an ever-present in the team since returning from that injury at the end of September, helping his side keep three clean sheets and move to eighth in Ligue 1.
But after the match against Monaco St Etienne released a statement on their official website confirming Saliba had broken his fifth metatarsal, an injury which could keep him out for a number of weeks.
The statement read: "William Saliba, victim of an injury against Monaco last Sunday, suffered a crack in his fifth metatarsal and will miss the confrontation against Oleksandriya in the Europa League."
The news will come as a blow to Arsenal manager Unai Emery, who had decided Saliba could benefit with gaining extra experience in France before progressing to his first-team squad.
Speaking about the decision to be sent back to Saint-Etienne, Saliba said: "Well, it was important first of all because I wanted to prove myself for another year at Saint-Etienne, before I come to try and establish myself here at Arsenal.
"This is a big club, and when you come here, you need to be ready.
"So I'm going to try and have a great season with the club that developed me in order to be ready for Arsenal."
The Gunners next face a tricky-looking trip to Leicester City in the Premier League, and may have to do so without Dani Ceballos , who went off holding his hamstring during his side's 1-1 draw with Vitoria in the Europa League on Wednesday.
