
# Mongolian Groom Injury Mars Heavily Scrutinized Breeders’ Cup

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Matt Rybaltowski**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/mattrybaltowski/2019/11/02/mongolian-groom-injury-mars-heavily-scrutinized-breeders-cup/)

For 13 races during this weekend’s Breeders’ Cup World Championships, it appeared that the thoroughbred industry could take a collective sigh of relief. Under a cloud of skepticism, the Breeders’ Cup still held international racing’s hallmark event at Santa Anita Park despite a rash of breakdowns over the last year. In recent weeks, Breeders’ Cup and Santa Anita officials took extreme measures to limit catastrophic injuries, introducing enhanced safety protocols and closely monitoring surface conditions.
Then, in the $6 million Longines Breeders’ Cup Classic, the 14th and final Breeders’ Cup race of the weekend, a nightmarish scenario played out in real-time. Mongolian Groom, the 2019 winner of the Grade I Awesome Again Stakes at Santa Anita, pulled up at the top of the stretch after suffering a left hind ankle injury.
Mongolian Groom, a 4-year old son of Hightail, was loaded onto an ambulance and taken to the Santa Anita Equine Hospital, said Dr. Scott Palmer, On-Call Veterinarian at the American Association of Equine Practitioners.
The horse suffered a serious injury, Palmer said during the Breeders’ Cup Classic post-race news conference. A team of veterinarians consulted with the connections of Mongolian Groom to make a decision on potential treatment options, he added.
Sitting in third at the time of the injury, it appeared that Mongolian Groom clipped heels with War Of Will, the eventual ninth-place finisher. Palmer did not speculate on the cause of injury.
Since Dec. 30, there have been 36 thoroughbred fatalities at Santa Anita including six over the track’s six-week fall meet.
Ahead of the Breeders Cup, Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D - California) penned a letter to the California Horse Racing Board last week warning that the event presented a critical test for the future of horse racing in the Golden State and the nation, as a whole.
“If horse racing can not be conducted in a safe and humane manner that protects the life and safety of horses and jockeys, it may be time to reexamine the future of this sport in our state and in our country,” she wrote.
In response to the breakdowns, The Stronach Group, the owners of Santa Anita, and the Breeders Cup swung into action. Over the last few months, The Stronach Group marshaled in comprehensive changes in medication standards and issued new requirements for morning training sessions in an effort to curb the rate of breakdowns. The Breeders Cup also convened a panel Oct. 30 that addressed injury management, emergency response protocols and strengthened onsite requirements, among other issues. The Breeders Cup assembled a team of 14 veterinarians to begin daily inspections of every runner 72 hours prior to the world championships.
Santa Anita is also placing a strong emphasis on monitoring the track to ensure the safest possible racing surface. Throughout the Breeders Cup, Santa Anita employed various types of machinery to groom the track and used a pair of high-tech instruments to record the moisture content and cushion depth of the racing surface.
Repole Stable and St. Elias Stable’s Vino Rosso cruised past favored McKinzie in the upper stretch and drew off to a 4 ¼-length victory. Vino Rosso capped his 4-year old campaign with his second Grade I victory on the season. The son of Curlin crossed the line first in September’s Grade I Jockey Club Gold Cup, but was disqualified by stewards for interference in the stretch.
Todd Pletcher, Vino Rosso’s trainer, noted that the thoroughbred industry expressed significant concerns heading into the Breeders’ Cup that a prominent horse could experience an injury as serious as the one suffered by Mongolian Groom.
“Hopefully it’s something he can have surgery for and have a recovery,” Pletcher said.
Pletcher also emphasized that Santa Anita took as many precautionary measures as possible to limit potential breakdowns. The sentiments were echoed by Vino Rosso owner Mike Repole.
“I don’t know exactly what happened, it’s the worst part of this game,” Repole said. “For us, horse safety is very, very important. Prayers to the horse and prayers to the connections of the horse.”
 
