
# How to move your Facebook pictures to Google Photos

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/how-get-your-pictures-out-facebook-and-google-photos?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Joe Maring / Android Central
      
Most of us have a lot of photos on Facebook, but don't actually use that platform as a long-term storage solution. Google Photos has become the go-to service for saving digital photographs, and if you haven't yet moved your collection of Facebook pictures to Google Photos, there's never been a better time to finally make the switch. The process can be a bit tricky, so here are a few tips on how to make the transition as seamless as possible.
The first step of this process begins in the Facebook app. Specifically, you need to download all of your photos on your Facebook account to a local file so you can then upload them to Google Photos. Here's the best way to do that.
With this done, you now have to wait for Facebook to process your download request. This shouldn't take too long, and once your file is ready, you'll get an email letting you know. In this case, I requested the copy at 8:32, and it was ready at 8:37.
Once your file is ready to be downloaded, here's what you do:
Now, it's time to sit back and wait for your photos to download. Depending on how many you're downloading and how fast your internet connection is, this could take a while. Once it's done downloading, we can move on to the next steps.
Once everything is done extracting, it's time to move on to the final few steps.
You'll need to go through and do this for all of the albums you want to back up to Google Photos, and while it is a little tedious, it's the best method we've found for getting everything converted over.
The social network that everyone's on.
Despite seemingly endless privacy/security scandals, Facebook continues to be one of the largest social networks on the planet. You can use it to connect with family, store photos, play games, and even date.
Our favorite way to save precious memories.
In the world of online photo storage, Google Photos reigns supreme. It's 100% free-to-use, has a clean interface, and powerful AI features for helping you group all of your pictures together in the right spots.
Speaking of photos, here are a few of our favorite photo-centric phone accessories to help you take your photography game to the next level!
Whether you're taking family portraits or pictures of the night sky, this tripod and remote shutter bundle gives you enhanced stability and functionality with your shots.
Take your selfies to the next level with this LED light, ensuring you always look your best no matter where you may find yourself.
If you have a phone with a microSD card slot, this 128GB card from Samsung is a great buy. It's reliable, affordable, and has plenty of room for all your photos.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Everyone hail to the pumpkin king! Get your pumpkin fix with these Halloween-worthy wallpapers Old wallpapers are sad wallpapers. Get some warm new, pumpkiny wallpapers
      

        Phone photography 101 Up your camera game with these apps for Android Shooting with your Android camera is usually great, but third-party apps can pack a punch in places you didn’t even know you needed!
      

        Snap that The Google Pixel 3 is the best phone for taking photos, period If you want the best Android camera, you should go with the Google Pixel 3. There are many great options that get close, though.
      
