
# APTOPIX Election 2019 Kentucky Governor

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:36:15+00:00**

Author: **Associated Press**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/latest-beshear-confident-won-looks-171946966.html)

1 / 2Democratic gubernatorial candidate and Kentucky Attorney General Andy Beshear, along with lieutenant governor candidate Jacqueline Coleman, acknowledge supporters at the Kentucky Democratic Party election night watch event, Tuesday, Nov. 5, 2019, in Louisville, Ky. (AP Photo/Bryan Woolston)
FRANKFORT, Ky. (AP) — The Latest on Kentucky's race for governor (all times local):
5:20 p.m.
Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin says he asked for a recanvass of Tuesday's election results in order to make sure there is "integrity in the process."
The election results currently show the Republican incumbent trailing Democratic challenger Andy Beshear by a little more than 5,000 votes. Bevin's campaign asked for the recanvass Wednesday.
At an afternoon news conference, Bevin said his campaign is also in the process of getting affidavits about things that happened or didn't happen during the election. However, he said they won't be followed through on until after the recanvass of the votes.
Beshear has claimed victory and has begun the transition process of becoming governor, but Bevin has refused to concede. The Associated Press has not declared a winner.
___
2:45 p.m.
Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin has requested a recanvass of Tuesday's election results that show he's trailing his Democratic opponent by several thousand votes.
Bevin campaign manager Davis Paine said Wednesday that the Republican's campaign is exercising its right to ensure every lawful vote was counted. Bevin has not conceded the election.
A recanvass is a check of the vote count to ensure the results were added correctly.
Secretary of State Alison Lundergan Grimes says her office received the recanvass request from Bevin.
Democrat Andy Beshear said Wednesday he's confident in the outcome of the election and is starting his transition to move into the governor's office. Beshear is Kentucky's attorney general.
___
12:15 p.m.
Democrat Andy Beshear says he's confident in the outcome of the Kentucky governor's election as he pivots toward preparing to govern the state.
Beshear told reporters Wednesday that he has not heard from Republican Gov. Matt Bevin, who has not conceded.
Beshear, the state's attorney general, said the hard-fought campaign ended Tuesday night and that it's time to move forward with a smooth transition.
He appointed his top deputy in the attorney general's office, J. Michael Brown, to lead his transition team. He said the budget he submits to lawmakers early next year will focus on education, health care and infrastructure.
___
3 a.m.
Kentucky's bitter race for governor went into overtime as Democrat Andy Beshear declared victory while Republican Gov. Matt Bevin, a close ally of President Donald Trump, refused to concede with results showing he trailed by a few thousand votes.
Kentucky has some sorting out to do before inaugurating its next governor.
With 100% of precincts reporting, Beshear — the state's attorney general and the son of Kentucky's last Democratic governor, Steve Beshear — had a lead of 5,333 votes out of more than 1.4 million counted, or a margin of nearly 0.4 percentage points. The Associated Press has not declared a winner.
In competing speeches late Tuesday, Beshear claimed victory while Bevin refused to concede.
Bevin hinted there might be "irregularities" to look into but didn't offer specifics.
