
# Justen Hall executed: White supremacist who strangled woman to death is killed

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:01:07+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/breaking-justen-hall-executed-white-20829645)

A white supremacist has been executed for strangling a woman to death with an electrical cord.
Justen Hall, 38, has been put to death 14 years after he was convicted of strangling Melissa Billhartz so she would not tell police about a drug house where he and members of his racist gang gathered.
Hall was sent to death row in 2005, three years after strangling the woman with an electrical cord.
The murderer died by lethal injection at the death chamber in Huntsville, Texas, today.
In his last words, Hall apologised for the 'pain and suffering' he had caused and told his mum he would miss her.
He said: "Yeah I want to address the Roundtree family and apologise for the pain and suffering I caused.
"And to the Diaz's family that I had to put you through this, it should never happened.
"And to my mum and Morelia I love you and I'm going to miss you all. I'm ready."
His attorneys raised concerns about DNA testing on the cord used to kill Billhartz and suggested his confession was coerced.
But in 2016, Hall asked to waive his appeals in a letter to the court.
“These walls 24/7 have broken me,” he wrote. “It is taking every last ounce of will to even make it from day to day.” 
Ted Murgatroyd, a recruit of Hall's gang, got into a fight with Billhartz on October 28, 2002, when they were in her truck on a trip to a convenience store in El Paso County.
When the pair returned to the drug house where gang members were gathered, Hall decided to kill Billhartz so she did not report the fight or the drug house to police, according to court documents.
Hall left the house with Billhartz in her truck and returned five hours later with her body in the back of the cab.
He then ordered Murgatroyd to get a shovel and machete and go with him to New Mexico where they buried her body, court records said.
A month later, Hall confessed to police after they pulled him over while he was driving Billhartz's truck.
Police found Billhartz's body and later determined that she was strangled with an electrical cord, according to court records.
In 2007, Hall filed an appeal challenging the DNA evidence, however in 2016 he withdrew the DNA appeal and asked for an execution date to be set.
"I have done this because I believe it's time for justice to be served, and to give the victim's family closure,'' he wrote to the district attorney, according to court documents.
Hall is the 19th inmate in the United States and the eighth in Texas to be executed in 2019, according to the Death Penalty Information Center.
Texas has executed more prisoners than any other state since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976.
On Monday night, South Dakota executed a man convicted of fatally stabbing a former doughnut shop co-worker during a 1992 burglary.
