
# Trump loses fourth DHS secretary and faces conundrum getting a fifth

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:09:00+00:00**

Author: **Anna Giaritelli**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/trump-loses-fourth-dhs-secretary-and-faces-conundrum-getting-a-fifth)

The White House has found itself at a familiar crossroads following the exit Thursday of acting Secretary of Homeland Security Kevin McAleenan: For the fourth time in 33 months, DHS is without a leader.
The departure of a secretary would normally be followed by the nomination of a new one or the appointment of an acting secretary. But both of those options are off the table for the candidates Trump likes best.
Three senior administration officials familiar with or involved in White House discussions of whom to install at DHS told the Washington Examiner acting United States Citizenship and Immigration Service Director Ken Cuccinelli and acting U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Mark Morgan remain Trump's personal favorites. But neither has a pathway to confirmation.
A top Senate Republican aide told the Washington Examiner Thursday the “prospects aren’t good” for Cuccinelli. A spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell pointed the Washington Examiner to comments the top Republican made earlier this year in which he expressed a “lack of enthusiasm” for Cuccinelli's potential nomination.
Due to the lack of support among Senate Republicans, the White House looked at ways around a confirmation hearing, including appointing either as acting secretary.
But as Stanford Law professor Anne Joseph-O’Connell explained, Trump is forbidden by the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998 from appointing another acting secretary due to legal constraints.
McAleenan’s time at DHS was limited from the very beginning to 210 days. He started as acting secretary April 10. Under the vacancies act, the role can only be filled by an acting secretary for 210 days, even if previously confirmed for a different role at the same department.
As of Thursday, McAleenan had been acting secretary for 204 days. “If he had not decided to resign, he would have had to give up the title on November 6 when the Act’s 210-day time limit ran out,” she wrote in a tweet.
The Trump administration has until Wednesday, Nov. 6, to pick a a permanent leader, Joseph-O’Connell explained. If a nomination is not made by Nov. 6, since an acting secretary cannot be appointed, DHS legally will have to delegate the secretary’s duties to the next person in line.
The deeper issue, according to a fifth person, a former top official at DHS, is that “[former and current senior officials] don’t want the job."
“I just think it’s a shame personally that we can’t find people. People don’t want to step up to the job,” the official said. “It’s a do-nothing department. The components do what they gotta do to run the place while the department worries about politics.” The same person said the appointees Trump has hired “are just totally lightweights.”
Unlike other federal departments, the DHS has been at the center of implementing Trump's immigration-focused agenda, making it an attractive landing spot for his outspoken supporters and sometimes a turn-off to senior career officials who want to do the job without the politics.
The decision about whom to put atop the 240,000-person department will likely affect how Trump moves on his agenda between now and the 2020 election, when voters who backed him in 2016 will have to decide if he followed through on campaign promises, such as building a border wall and billing Mexico for it.
The last known succession order is from the Obama administration in 2016. It’s not clear if the Trump administration has altered the succession list.
The last list has the deputy secretary, the under secretary for management, and the administrator of Federal Emergency Management Agency as successors. However, all three positions have acting officials in them, and Justice Department rules forbid an acting official from stepping into a new acting role.
The next in line is the under secretary for National Protection and Programs, an office that was wrapped up into the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency. CISA Director Christopher Krebs is Senate-confirmed and a legally acceptable option, Joseph-O'Connell noted. Cuccinelli and Morgan are nowhere near the top of the succession list.
If the White House lets the clock run down, the automatic successor would unofficially be dubbed "acting," only without the time constraints of an appointee.
“There are, however, presumably constitutional limits to having an inferior officer serving indefinitely in a principal office. But the courts have not figured out those limit,” she wrote.
Chad Wolf, an unconfirmed under secretary nominee at DHS, is the latest rumored candidate, three officials said. He could be confirmed in his lower role, then moved to acting secretary, but the 210-day limit prevents it. He is also too low on the succession list to automatically become acting secretary. But Trump could nominate him to be the permanent secretary.
A sixth source, a former senior administration official, said Thursday night the White House is not planning to announce the next DHS leader until next week.
