
# Ole Gunnar Solskjaer insists Man Utd striker Marcus Rashford won't burn out

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **David McDonnell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-mcdonnell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/ole-gunnar-solskjaer-insists-man-20790570)

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is adamant Marcus Rashford will not suffer burn-out – despite admitting the forward could do with a break.
Rashford has played more ­minutes than any other United player this ­season and has featured in every game for which he has been available.
The England forward, who turned 22 on Thursday, has started 12 of United’s 15 games this season, coming off the bench in two and sitting out just one.
Rashford scored a spectacular 35-yard free-kick in midweek to seal a 2-1 Carabao Cup win for United at Chelsea , but came off with a knee issue late on.
Solskjaer admitted ­recently he was ­unable to give Rashford a rest because of Anthony Martial’s prolonged ­absence with a thigh injury.
And with Rashford bang in form, with four goals in his last four United games, he doesn’t want one anyway.
Solskjaer said: “I’ve been able to rest him a couple of times in ­Europe, but he’s such a fit boy, a professional boy. He looks after himself.
“Hopefully he had loads of sweets on his birthday, so his ­energy levels are up.
“But when you score goals, when you get performances, you just want to play games. The rhythm of playing, resting, recovering and playing again, sometimes that’s just as good.
“Since Anthony Martial’s comeback, Marcus has blossomed. He is probably happier facing goal, being direct, driving at people, taking players on rather than being a target man with his back to goal.
“But Marcus wants to master all the skills – maybe playing as a two with Anthony, maybe as a three against Norwich, or wide like we did against Chelsea.
“And it was important he stepped up for that penalty against Chelsea.”
In the summer, Solskjaer said Rashford, whose best goal haul for a season is 13, was capable of scoring 20 in a single campaign.
Rashford already has eight this term, with Solskjaer claiming he can maintain his scoring run and set a new personal best.
“He knows he can get loads of goals, but he needs to add the scruffy ones, the tap-ins, like against Liverpool , from two yards.
“He’s improving all the time and he didn’t really see those opportunities a year ago. He’s now quicker at reacting and smelling a goal, he sees it’s worth a 40-yard sprint.
“For me though, I don’t think he should set himself a target of 20 or 25 goals. Set yourself a target of the next game, the next goal.”
Rashford celebrated his stunning free-kick at Chelsea with a knee slide, after which he grimaced, suggesting he may have injured himself in the celebration.
But Solskajer said: “Yeah, well, it wasn’t the knee slide. It was a tackle. Hopefully he will be ready for tomorrow.”
Solskjaer famously celebrated his Champions League and Treble-winning goal against Bayern Munich in 1999 with a knee slide in the Nou Camp, injuring himself in the process.
“But that was not the knee I had to retire through. It was different,” he said. “The players can do whatever they want when they score goals, because it might be the last one you score.”
