
# 2020 Suzuki V-Strom 1050 and V-Strom 1050 XT officially unveiled at EICMA 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:13:00+00:00**

Author: **Rishabh Bhaskar**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/2020-suzuki-v-strom-1050-and-v-strom-1050-xt-officially-unveiled-at-eicma-2019-414779)

New V-Strom’s engine produces more power and is compliant with Euro5 and BS6 emission norms.
Suzuki has taken the wraps off the 2020 Suzuki V-Strom 1050 and V-Strom 1050 XT at the EICMA 2019 show in Milan. The new V-Strom 1050 replaces the ageing V-Strom 1000 as the flagship Suzuki adventure motorcycle with the styling inspired by Suzuki’s yesteryear stars – the DR-Z and DR Big motorcycles – both dubbed the ‘Desert Express’. The styling is refreshingly new for Suzuki’s top-of-the-line ADV motorcycle – and it was necessary, considering the ageing design of the previous-gen bike. The vertical halogen headlamp on the older V-Strom 1000 is gone and in place of it is a single, square-shaped LED headlamp, split in the middle to segregate the low and high beam. Below the headlamp is a new beak, which is flatter and wider than the pointy one seen on the last-generation model. A height-adjustable screen sits above the headlamp while the turn indicators on the XT version are sleek LED units, whereas the base variant has standard indicators with halogen bulbs.
The side profile of the adventure tourer reveals the new fuel tank with pretty large tank extensions that seem to stretch all the way down to double as a radiator shroud. Below this is a comprehensive, tubular engine guard (only on the XT variant – the off-road-focused, higher-spec version of the two). The tail section has also been completely redesigned. The body panels are sleeker, with new grab rails on either end and a new, clear-lens LED tail lamp. There’s a provision to attach panniers too. The split seats are new; and are flatter than the single-piece unit on its predecessor.  The standard V-Strom 1050 gets alloy wheels while the XT rides on tubeless, DID aluminium wire-spoke wheels, given its off-road bias. Wheels comprise 19-inchers at the front and 17-inchers at the rear.
In all, the V-Strom’s design is reminiscent of motorcycles from the Suzuki DR series and Suzuki motocross machines, which is evident from the squarish body panels and colour schemes.
Nestled within the twin-spar aluminium frame is Euro 5/BS6-compliant, 1,037cc, liquid-cooled engine that produces 107hp (7 per cent more than the previous model) and 100Nm of torque. It’s mated to a 6-speed gearbox with a slipper clutch as standard. Suzuki claims the engine has the same torquey nature and linear power delivery as the previous motorcycle. This has been achieved by using a new intake and exhaust cams that have a longer lift duration and less overlap. Suzuki has also optimised the engine cooling system by employing a new radiator and oil cooler. The former increases cooling capacity by 15 percent.
Suzuki has also equipped the V-Strom with a new IMU-assisted electronic suite called the Suzuki Intelligent Ride System (SIRS). It consists of three power modes, a three-mode traction control system that’s switchable and a lean, sensitive ABS. The XT, additionally gets hill-hold control and cruise control.
Both bikes get 43mm, fully adjustable KYB forks, as well as a preload and damping-adjustable monoshock at the rear. Braking duties are handled by twin 310mm discs at the front with Tokico Monobloc calipers.
Suzuki is expected to launch the new V-Strom 1050 in India sometime next year
