
# UFC 244 Stats And Video Highlights: Jorge Masvidal’s BMF Knockout Win Over Nate Diaz

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/03/ufc-244-stats-and-video-highlights-jorge-masvidals-bmf-knockout-win-over-nate-diaz/)

On Saturday night, the UFC was in New York City for the UFC 244 pay-per-view card. In the main event of the fight card, Jorge Masvidal and Nate Diaz met in a welterweight fight that to determine the BMF title, a title that did not exist until Diaz spoke it into existence after his UFC 241 win over Anthony Pettis. Masvidal and Diaz did not trash talk in the lead up to the fight. In fact, they were downright respectful of each other. That fact did not make for a boring fight. Anyone who expected it to be a tedious battle was unfamiliar with the shared mindset of these two veterans. That mindset is, get the win — no — get the finish no matter the personal cost paid along the way. 
When the two got ready to begin the scrap, which was scheduled for five rounds, Masvidal stood with his hands behind his back at the cage, a smirk on his face. Diaz, as usual, paced back and forth on his side of the octagon with a scowl on his face. 
When the fight began, Masvidal did a little run in and faked throwing a knee. A not so subtle reminder of how he knocked out Ben Askren in five seconds in his most recent fight. 
When the fight began in earnest, Diaz pressed forward and Masvidal landed a leg kick before Diaz initiated a clinch. Masvidal landed some good shots from the clinch, including a nasty elbow. He followed that blow, which hurt Diaz, with a head kick. Diaz fell to the mat and was bleeding badly. Knowing the fight was scheduled for 25 minutes, Masvidal remained clam and looked for an opening to land strikes to his downed opponent. With 2:15 left in the first stanza, Masvidal allowed Diaz to get hot his feet. 
It did not take long for the two to go back to the clinch. They stayed in that spot until Masvidal pushed Diaz away. Diaz came back with some looping punches before the two went back to the clinch. Masvidal again pushed off and scored with a flurry. With 10 seconds left, Diaz connected with punches, but Masvidal only smiled. 
The two looked much more serious to start the second stanza. Diaz again pressured and moved forward, but Masvidal was able to land going backward. With 3:30 left in the round, Masvidal rocked Diaz with a big right hand. Masvidal then went with the unorthodox punch he used to score a knockout over Darren Till, but he missed with that shot against Diaz. The two again went to the clinch and Masvidal scored big in close before they broke apart. With Diaz backing up with his hands down, Masvidal then threw from the outside and connected before the two again went back to the clinch. With one minute left in the second stanza, Masvidal scored a takedown. The two scrambled on the mat for the final 20 seconds of the round.
Diaz was marked up, but willing to engage to start the third round. Diaz pressured early, but Masvidal used good head movement and footwork to circle out. With 45 seconds ticked off the clock, Masvidal landed a big right, but Diaz came back with a flurry of strikes before Masvidal landed a body kick in response. The two then went back to the clinch. They broke and then went toe-to-toe to the approval of the crowd. Masvidal was working the head and body well and landing heavy shots to all of his targets. Diaz just wiped the blood out of his eye and kept coming.
Meanwhile, Masvidal was bouncing on the balls of his feet and controlling the pace of the contest. With 1:45 left on the clock, the two again went to the clinch, where Diaz landed small punches to the head. The fight went to the ground with 45 seconds left and Masvidal landed ground strikes before Diaz began throwing from his back. Masvidal ended the round with a nice elbow.
Before the fourth round began, the cageside doctor came in to look at Diaz’s cuts. The crowd did not appreciate seeing the doctor, as he was booed before he stepped away from Diaz to talk to the referee. After a brief consult, the fight was waved off. No one seemed to be happy about how the bout ended, least of all the fighters, but the cuts around Diaz’s eye and the swelling did not look good to the doctor and that was enough. 
With that, Jorge Masvidal was crowned the BMF champion, but he said he wanted to run it back with Diaz. Diaz agreed. Neither man seemed pleased that the fight did not end with a definitive winner. 
When the stats were compiled for the contest, Masvidal had landed 112 of 179 significant strikes. Of those strikes, 78 landed to Diaz’s head, 27 to the body and seven to the legs. Diaz’s significant strikes were much lower. He landed 43 of 104 attempted blows. Twenty-three of those strikes it Masvidal’s head, 12 to the body and eight to the legs. Masvidal went one-for-one in takedowns. Neither fighter had a submission attempt. 
UFC 244 took place at Madison Square Garden in New York City.  The pay-per-view card streamed on ESPN+ following prelims on ESPN2 and early prelims on ESPN+, and UFC Fight Pass.
