
# Dot Com Vs Crypto Bubble: A Glimpse Into Human Psychology and The Future of Bitcoin?

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:00:52+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/04/dot-com-vs-crypto-bubble-a-glimpse-into-human-psychology-and-the-future-of-bitcoin/)

All financial markets are cyclical, including the cryptocurrency market. The price action of assets like Bitcoin, Ethereum, and even traditional assets like stocks or commodities, are driven by a complex balance of supply and demand, but also the psychology of each market’s participants.
A comparison between the late 1990s and early 2000s dot com era boom and the late 2017 crypto hype bubble show just how similar human psychology playing out in markets can be, and potentially offer a glimpse into Bitcoin’s long-term future.
It’s not uncommon to see today’s crypto market compared to the dot com bubble of the early 2000s. Both were emerging technologies that offered untapped potential and promise and took the entire world by storm.

        
          Related Reading | 50% of Population To Use Bitcoin By 2043 If Crypto Follows Internet Adoption
        
      
Investors flocked to budding brands harnessing the power of the new internet technology in droves, driving up the price of stocks like Amazon long before the online bookstore became the wide-ranging digital brand it is today.
In a comparison against Bitcoin, Amazon’s stock performance during the dot com bubble shows a similar market structure – one that is highly driven by speculation and therefore, the emotional and psychological state of investors.
Markets peak around periods of extreme euphoria, and once investors come down to reality form the high they were riding, oftentimes fear, anger, and even depression take over. All this before a long, drawn-out return to mean.
The charts shared demonstrate that human psychology rarely changes, and thus, markets typically behave in similar manners. As is the case with Amazon, so long as the underlying asset still has value, after a long period of consolidation, the asset can go on to rally once again, making the initial peak look like a mere blip on a price chart.
