
# Starting XI: AmaZulu v Stellenbosch

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/match-reports/absa-premiership-starting-xi-amazulu-v-stellenbosch-06-november-2019/666862)


        Absa Premiership
      
Teams: AmaZulu and Stellenbosch FC
Date: 06 November 2019
Venue: Princess Magogo Stadium
AmaZulu will be seeking to get away from the drop zone when they host Stellenbosch FC in the Absa Premiership on Wednesday evening at Princess Magogo Stadium.
Usuthu have found a new lease of life under Jozef Vukusic, who has managed to clinch two victories in their last two games.
Usuthu beat Cape Town City 2-1 at home and Baroka FC 1-0 away to get off the foot of the table, as they moved up to second-from-bottom with eight points from nine matches.
Meanwhile, Stellies are also enjoying a good run of form as they are unbeaten in their last four matches, with their last encounter ending in a crucial 1-0 win over Orlando Pirates.
The sides last met officially in the National First Division (now known as GladAfrica Championship) in the 2016/17 season, where Stellies won the first-round before Usuthu claimed victory in the return fixture.

        Here's how they line up:
      
AmaZulu: 28. Mbatha, 4. Morton, 25. P.Gumede, 27. Xoki, 18. Booysen, 34. Maduna, 33. Darpoh, 10. Sithebe, 12. De Jong, 20. Majoro, 7. Ntuli.
Subs: 43. Boshoff, 17. M.Gumede, Khumalo, 6. Ncube, 8. Ncobeni, 50. Vilakazi, 11. Karuru.
Stellenbosch: 31. De Jong, 42. Mobbie, 13. Van Heerden, 4. De Goede, 5. Mthethwa, 16. Johannes, 50. Zungu, 15. Bergman, 6. Moroole, 21. Isaacs, 10. Rayners.
