
# Mick McCarthy Names Ireland Squad For Games Against New Zealand And Denmark

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:58:13+00:00**

Author: **Robert Redmond**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/football/robredmond/ireland-squad-new-zealand-denmark/)


        The Republic of Ireland squad for November games against New Zealand and Denmark has been finalised.
      
Mick McCarthy has trimmed the Ireland squad from 39 players down to 28. Troy Parrott is part of the squad and McCarthy has said the Tottenham forward will feature against New Zealand in the friendly at the Aviva Stadium on November 14th. Ireland host Denmark four days later in a Euro 2020 qualifier they must win to qualify for the tournament next summer.
Darren Randolph has been included in the squad but remains an injury doubt due to a thigh injury that has kept him out of recent matches for Middlesbrough. Robbie Brady returns to the squad after missing out on recent selections.
“Robbie was left out last month simply because he had only played three minutes in the Premier League all season when I named the squad,” McCarthy told FAI’s website.
“I will give Robbie time against New Zealand to get ready for Denmark. He is one of the players in the squad who will really benefit from the New Zealand game before we play the Danes.
Elsewhere, James McCarthy has not been included due to “personal reasons” and will remain with his club Crystal Palace. With Seamus Coleman suspended, Matt Doherty and Ireland Under-21 right-back Lee O’Connor has been called up. The Celtic full-back will be part of the squad for the New Zealand friendly before returning to the Under-21s for their European Championship qualifier with Sweden. Ciaran Clark has returned to the squad after regaining his starting spot for Newcastle United.
Aaron Connolly retains his place, while David McGoldrick returns after missing Ireland’s matches in October due to injury. Shane Long, who has 82 caps and 17 goals for the national team, has been overlooked again. There is also no place for Ryan Manning, the in-form QPR full-back who surely warranted a call-up after excelling for his club this season.
Ireland take on New Zealand on Thursday, November 14th. On Monday, November 18th, they host Denmark in a must-win qualifier.
