
# Master electrical engineering with this $25 training bundle

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:30:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/master-electrical-engineering-25-training-bundle?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)

It’s never fun to have to dish out an exorbitant amount of cash in order to fix an appliance or electrical issue at home, but surprisingly few people take the time to learn the skills that can let them tackle these repairs on their own.
The Ultimate Electrical Engineering Master Class Bundle will teach you how to perform a wide variety of electrical repairs yourself, and it’s available for over 95% off at just $25.
With 5 courses and over 40 hours of training, this bundle will outfit you with a solid understanding of electrical engineering principles that will save you time and money.
After an introduction to the basics of circuitry, you’ll learn how to work with and repair grounding systems, how to stay safe while working in a variety of wiring environments, how to install and maintain solar power sources in your home, and much more.
If you’re looking to take your skills to a more professional level, there’s also a course that breaks down more complex electrical engineering methods that allow you to build induction machines and transformers.
Start saving money by doing your own electrical repairs with the Ultimate Electrical Engineering Master Class Bundle for just $25—over 95% off its usual price for a limited time.

        Prices are subject to change.
      

        come closer Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max can now react based on your proximity Ultrasonic sensing is now rolling out to the Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max, which allows them to dynamically change what is on the display as you get closer or further away.
      

        Did You Hear That Nest Secure will soon be able to detect breaking windows Nest Secure's microphone will soon be able to do more than just take Assistant commands. Beginning in early November, Google will enable Glass break detection which will allow it to sound the alarm when a window breaks.
      

        Because I'm happppyyyy Are you happy with the Pixel 4? The Pixel 4 has received a lot of criticism since its release, but taking a look through the AC forums, many people are really happy with the phone. What about you?
      

        Get protected Here are the best screen protectors for your Skagen Falster 2 Protecting your Skagen Falster 2 is mandatory to help it last as long as possible. The best way to do that is with a screen protector, of course.
      
