
# Bargain hunters flock to the Ankerside for monthly car boot sale

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:51:08+00:00**

Author: **Helen Machin**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/local-news/bargain-hunters-flock-ankerside-monthly-17217153)

Level B of Ankerside multi-storey car park was buzzing with activity on a rather cold and damp autumnal morning as 54 car booters sold their wares to a crowd of bargain hunters.
The monthly indoor event on Sunday was the eleventh to be held in the town – all to raise money to stage the town’s carnival in the summer.
Such is the success of the car boot initiative, that it has had a knock-on effect on town centre businesses, with shops reporting increased footfall.
Among the stallholders was 58-year-old John Jones. John makes wooden bird boxes and other items as a hobby. He is in a wheelchair as he has a serious deterioration of the spine – and the car boot sale is easily accessible for him and his wife Bernie to sell his creations, which are all made from reclaimed wood.
John said: “Woodworking keeps me sane! I do a bit, then I can leave it a bit, depending on how I’m feeling. It’s been my hobby for two or three years now and the car boot is a good place to sell.
Bernie added: “It’s an ideal venue, I don’t know why it’s never been thought of before!”
Lynne Ellis was at the venue for the third time. She said: “It’s indoors, not in the elements and the footfall hasn’t been too bad. I think it’s a great idea. I’m Tamworth born and bred and I think we have to make the most of what we’ve got in the town.”
Meanwhile Chris Powell, 65, is busy on her stall – selling dolls wearing handknitted outfits.
She said: “I love knitting, in fact I enjoy all crafts. It’s the first time I have been here – it’s great, you meet people, the atmosphere is nice and it gets me out of the house.”
On the stall next door is her daughter Debbie Hughes with her husband Rob and their nine-year-old son Evan.
Debbie said: “It’s good here because it’s all under cover. It’s busier than I expected. I think we will definitely come again.”
The car boot sale was the brainchild of Gary Hunt of Together 4 Tamworth.
He said: “Footfall in the town is up 1,500 a month and shops are starting to open up on car boot Sundays to serve food et cetera. It is generating more people coming into the town.
“We have ten volunteers from Together 4 Tamworth helping out.
 
“People are having fun, sharing a laugh and a joke, it’s all about community – and selling at car boots is a great way of recycling too.
“We are very grateful to Ankerside which is supporting us 100 per cent.”
Ankerside manager Mark Burbridge said: “It’s good for the Ankerside, it has improved footfall.
“We do everything we can to help retail in the town and we have a couple of shops who have started opening on a Sunday because of the car boot sale.
“Five or six years ago, holding a car boot sale here would never have happened. But times are changing – this is a community shopping centre and we are happy to support the car boot sales.”
Loraine Watling, 42, was back at the car boot for the second time. She said: “It’s really good, there is a steady trade and everyone is really kind and friendly.”
Craig Sprayson, 31, added: “It’s a great venue, I would definitely come back here.”
The knock-on effects of more people visiting the town on Sunday is also making a difference to the retailers in the town centre itself. Craig Russell, store manager at Home Bargains in George Street, said: “We have seen an increase of footfall of around ten to 15 per cent on the days when the car boot is held – we have definitely noticed that there are more people in the town.”
