
# CS Magoha says additional security deployed in Kisii after impersonation incident in ongoing KCSE

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:10:45+00:00**

Author: **ROSEMARY ONCHARI**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/cs-magoha-says-additional-security-deployed-in-kisii-after-impersonation-incident-in-ongoing-kcse/)


        KISII, Kenya, Nov 6 – Education Cabinet Secretary Prof George Magoha has reassured of adequate measures to deter examination malpractice in the ongoing Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) following an incident in Kisii on Tuesday.
      
Police arrested 7 people who were said to have impersonated candidates at a private examination centre. Two of the suspects have since been identified as university students.
ADVERTISEMENT
In a move to reassure the public on the integrity of the national exam which kicked off on Monday, Prof Magoha said more security officials have been assigned to the area.
Speaking at Milimani Academy where impersonators were nabbed, Prof Magoha instructed invigilators to ensure all candidates are verified against details provided to the Kenya National Examination Council (KNEC).
Some of the students who were interviewed by the CS said they were unable to identify their fellow students who only showed up on the exam day.
“It’s quite distressing some of the candidates were not known by our students,” Prof Magoha told reporters.
However, some of the genuine students never showed up for Wednesday’s English Paper III and Chemistry Paper II exams citing fear.
“We have deployed extra security officers in this examination center to ensure there is zero exam malpractices,” said Prof Magoha.
“We don’t want to use our children for the interest of other people to be given the very best and not allow people to use students as glimpse.”
The CS said warned parents colluding with rogue teachers to give out money to facilitate exam malpractices.
“We have also noted that some center managers are sending away our police officers from classrooms. Let the police officers remain in class and outside the classrooms. The students are concentrating they can’t be said to be disturbed by the presence of the officers,” said the CS.
Post Views: 198
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
