
# Bentley Mulsanne Extended Wheel Base delivered in Banglore, India

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:00:07+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/bentley-mulsanne-extended-wheel-base-delivered-in-banglore-india/)

Bentley Mulsanne Extended Wheel Base has been delivered in Bangalore, Karnataka. The limo worth Rs 10 cr to V.S. Reddy of British Biologicals. As the name suggests, 'Extended Wheel Base' (EWB) is longer by 250mm in length over the standard Mulsanne and all of the added length benefits the legroom for passengers in the rear.
The Mulsanne EWB gets a two-tone colour scheme - rose gold with burnt oak. And the bonnet and the boot badge gets the centenary gold detailing. The 21-inch alloy wheels get a polished finish. The steering wheel, gear shift knob and the key get centenary gold detailing as well.
Getting inside the first thing you'll notice is the treadplates with date 1919-2019 along with the diamond quilting on the door panels. The rear passengers get airline-style reclining seats with Alcantara headrest cushions. The seat ventilation and massage functions have been extended to all the four seats. The rear-seat passengers get a deployable table that can be folded back into the centre console. The fuel filler cap gets jewel embedding.
At the back of the front seat headrests, are electronically deployable, and detachable 10.4-inch tablets featuring google maps. For in-car entertainment, 'Naim For Bentley' audio is on offer. For convenience, the Mulsanne EWB is equipped with two umbrellas and for privacy, the limo features electric curtains as standard.
