
# Osasuna cruise to a 4-2 win vs. Alavés at Estadio El Sadar

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:14:05+00:00**

Author: **SPORT.es**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/laliga/osasuna-cruise-to-a-4-2-win-vs-alaves-at-estadio-el-sadar-7712877)

Alavés on away loss to Osasuna at Estadio El Sadar on Sunday. The two teams arrived at this challenge after drawing their last game. Osasuna faced the encounter with a desire to add more points to their locker after a draw against Mallorca (2-2) while Alavés had to settle for a draw in the last match played of the competition. Following today's result, Osasuna and Alavés occupy position 8th (18 points) and 16th (12 points) respectively after playing a total of 12 matches.
The first half started in favour of Osasuna, with a goal from Rubén García in the 20th minute. Later, Osasuna scored again and increased their advantage thanks to a goal from Ezequiel Ávila with the score 2-0. Alavés hit back thanks to a goal from Víctor Laguardia 27 minutes in the game to establish the 2-1. However, Osasuna just before the end of the 45 minutes increased their lead thanks to a penalty goal from Roberto Torres in the 45th minute, and the first half ended 3-1.
Alavés started the second half on an intensified spirit, thanks to a goal from Lucas Pérez 51 minutes in the game. However, Osasuna in the 55th minute increased their lead thanks to a goal from Juan Villar, which saw the second half to a 4-2.
At the end of the match, both teams made 3 substitutions each. For Osasuna Marc Cardona, Íñigo Pérez and Darko Brasanac came on for Juan Villar, Rubén García and Fran Mérida, and Alavés brought on Borja Sainz, Oliver Burke and John Guidetti for Manu García, Aleix Vidal and Joselu.
The referee booked Ezequiel Ávila, Fran Mérida, Marc Cardona and Pervis Estupinan from Osasuna, while for Alavés Lisandro Magallán and Víctor Laguardia saw a yellow card as well.
Osasuna will play against Getafe at away stadium, while Alavés will face Real Valladolid at home stadium.
