
# Unai Emery confirms extent of Dani Ceballos injury after midfielder limped off with hamstring problem

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:30:55+00:00**

Author: **Alex Milne**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/unai-emery-confirms-extent-dani-20828042)

Unai Emery has allayed fears that Dani Ceballos could be set for a spell on the sidelines by saying the hamstring injury he picked up against Vitoria was a 'small' one.
Ceballos was substituted shortly after he pulled up clutching his hamstring early in the second-half of the Gunners' 1-1 draw with Vitoria in the Europa League on Wednesday.
This led to worries from Arsenal fans, who thought the player could be out for a number of weeks.
Ceballos is set to have tests on the injury on Thursday but it looks hopeful he will not be out for a significant period of time, although he could miss his side's trip to Leicester in the Premier League on Saturday.
Speaking after the game Emery said: "We are going to wait for the analysis tomorrow but, at the beginning, I think it's a small injury."
Ceballos has become a fans' favourite at the Emirates, making 15 appearances in all competitions since his loan move from Real Madrid , but he could not help inspire his side to a victory against Vitoria as the Portuguese side scored a last minute equaliser.
Speaking to BT Sport, Emery added: "The players worked and tried and we were very close to winning. In the last minute, they pushed a lot and they scored.
"The objective is to be first in the group and we are. At the end of the match, we're thinking about Saturday and Leicester.
"We tried [to score] but also they are a very competitive team. We did better defensively. Offensively, this team are very organised and it's not easy to have a lot of chances. It's not good because we want to win but we are first, and this is our target."
Arsenal travel to Leicester hoping to win their first Premier League game since the 1-0 victory over Bournemouth on 6 October.
