
# PHL fast-tracks national zoning plan for ASF

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:08:17+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/05/phl-fast-tracks-national-zoning-plan-for-asf/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
THE Philippines is fast-tracking a national zoning plan that compartmentalizes areas in the country according to their African swine fever (ASF) status so that the government can effectively implement measures to eradicate the fatal disease in infected areas.
The plan aims to establish distinctive statuses among areas in the country, such as free zones, containment zones, surveillance zones, protected zones and infected zones.
This way, the government can effectively isolate areas already infected with ASF and implement eradication measures until these areas regain freedom status.
The plan, one of the key measures used by government in eradicating foot-and-mouth disease (FMD), is also a way not to disrupt trade among provinces, as each status would entail specific guidelines on transport and sale of hogs, pork and pork products.
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) defines zoning as the “proclamation of geographical areas in which specific disease control actions are to be carried out.”
The plan is being fast-tracked by the Department of Agriculture’s (DA) ASF Task Force (ASFTF), and will be presented by Agriculture Secretary William D. Dar at the next Cabinet meeting.
The task force seeks to finish the zoning plan before the year ends.
“Zoning is a scientific method which we used when we eradicated FMD, which we called then as progressive zoning approach. We will be doing the same now. Isolate the areas without infection and [shrinking the] infection areas,” ASFTF Head Reildrin Morales told reporters.
The DA said discussions on a zoning plan started last month.
Morales said the plan was not initiated as early as the ASF was confirmed in the country, as it will impact the domestic trade of hog-related products.
Under the proposed zoning plan, free zones would be allowed to freely trade among themselves, while those in infected zones would only be allowed to sell hogs, pork and pork products within their respective area.
“[The plan] will impact the market, that’s why it is not the first option being used. For example, Bulacan and Pampanga would have very limited market access for their products under [the zoning] system,” Morales said.
The zoning plan would identify areas as free zones, containment zones, surveillance zones, protected zones and infected zones.
The free zones would be Visayas, Mindanao and Mimaropa since there is no confirmed case of ASF in these three areas.
Luzon will be declared a containment zone since it is where all the country’s ASF outbreaks are located.
Under the containment zone, there would be protected zones, which are still free from ASF, such as Regions 1, 2, 4B, 5 and CAR; while the areas already affected by ASF would be identified as infected zones. Further, Regions 3 and 4A would be surveillance zones since they have higher risk of contracting ASF.
Morales said the national zoning plan was presented to provincial and municipal veterinarians nationwide and they expressed support to the proposal to eradicate ASF in the country. The zoning approach was used by the national government in eradicating FMD by isolating areas already affected by the disease.
In an article published online in 2011, Morales and Ann Catherine Umandal, who were both part of the National FMD Task Force, explained that the progressive zoning plan was “anchored on the approach that uses compartmentalization of the different regions in the country based on their FMD status.”
“The archipelagic nature of the country’s geography plays a very important role in this approach and provides a natural barrier to the spread of the disease from one island to another,” they said. “The basic idea of compartmentalization is to arrest the disease situation of a given area and protect the gains in this area by upgrading its status from infected to protected, and eventually to free zones while building-up measures to prevent re-infection,” they added.
