
# What channel is Arsenal vs Vitoria on? TV and live stream information

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:30:19+00:00**

Author: **Sam Fletcher**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/what-channel-arsenal-vs-vitoria-20822747)

Arsenal are back in Europa League action as they face bottom of the group Vitoria SC - but on a bizarre Wednesday game night.
After a disappointing draw at home to Wolves on Saturday, the Europa League comes as a welcome distraction for Unai Emery where qualification to the knockout stages can be all but confirmed with a win.
Last season’s finalists have won each of their three opening Group F fixtures and have kept a clean sheet in two of them.
Yet, undoubtedly, their most difficult European fixture this season came against Wednesday’s opponents when the Gunners twice had to come from behind to take all three points.
Here’s everything you need to know ahead of the match...
The game is being played on Wednesday 6th November.
The match was scheduled for Thursday but with Vitoria’s rivals Braga also competing in the competition this season the Arsenal match has been brought forward to prevent fans clashing.
Kick-off is set for 3:50pm so it doesn’t interfere with the Champions League matches later in the day.
The game takes place at Vitoria SC’s Estadio D.Afonso Henriques.
The ground has a capacity of 30,165.
The game will be shown live on BT Sport 2. Coverage to start at 3:30pm.
If you’re a subscriber to BT Sport you will be able to watch the match on their website or via the BT Sport app.
Alternatively, you can follow all of the action on the Mirror Football live blog.
Unai Emery boasts a fully-fit squad ahead of the trip to Portugal but has left out some of his key names.
Mesut Ozil and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang have not travelled.
Granit Xhaka has been left out of the squad and likely played his last game for the club after being stripped of the captaincy following his furious outburst at fans last month.
Reiss Nelson featured for the under-23s on Friday night and is available for selection after recovering from a knee injury.
Vitoria have a host of players sidelined through injury with manager Ivo Vieira having to resort to the bare-bones of his squad.
Jhonatan, Alhassan Wakaso, Andre Andre, Joseph Amoah, Ola John, Falaye Sacko, Valerii Bondarenko and Miguel Oliveira are all confirmed to miss the match, while Victor Garcia will have a late medical.

        Odds courtesy of thepools.com
      
