
# Cardiff's refusal to pay Emiliano Sala transfer fee having knock-on effect on tragic striker's boyhood club

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Simon Mullock, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/simon-mullock/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/cardiffs-refusal-pay-emiliano-sala-20795566)

Cardiff City's refusal to pay the disputed £14.7million fee for Emiliano Sala is causing problems for the tragic striker’s boyhood club.
San Martin, a fifth- division team based in Sala’s home town of Progreso, were set to bank more than £110,000 from the deal Cardiff struck with Nantes for the player in January.
Sala was killed when the light aircraft taking him to South Wales to join up with his new club crashed in the English Channel.
Cardiff insist that the transfer had not been completed.
And when FIFA ruled last month that the Bluebirds must make a £5.3million downpayment and then pay the fee in full over the next two years, the Championship club launched an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport.
That has meant San Martin have also been left in limbo – after earmarking the windfall to make repairs on the stadium that was renamed in Sala’s honour on Thursday to mark what would have been his 29th birthday.
Club president Daniel Ribero insists Cardiff promised financial help when chief executive Ken Choo and manager Neil Warnock attended Sala’s funeral in Progreso in February.
Ribero said: “We have not received the money that is owed to us for training rights.
“That is because Cardiff are appealing the decision of FIFA and we are still waiting for a resolution.
“But it is still disappointing that we have had no more contact with the Cardiff leadership.
“When they were at Emiliano’s funeral they said they were interested in giving our club a helping hand. But they never got in touch with us again.”
Sala joined San Martin at the age of five and spent a decade with the club before moving to Europe.
