
# Concerned over jam-packed schedule, admits Jurgen Klopp

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:18:05+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/concerned-over-jam-packed-schedule-admits-jurgen-klopp?utm_medium=rss)


        Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp is concerned about his players and their ability to handle an overcrowded fixture schedule in the month of December. The UEFA Champions League winners will have to play Aston Villa on December 17 before playing the FIFA Club World Cup game on December 18 in Qatar.
      
English outlet Sky Sports reported that Jurgen Klopp has said that the logistics behind Liverpool's back-to-back games in the Carabao Cup and Club World Cup next month are yet to be decided. The club announced that the Carabao Cup fixture will take place on 17th December as planned and no alterations have been made in the date despite Liverpool's involvement in the FIFA Club World Cup in Qatar.
The Reds' first match in the competition will be on December 18, just a day after their quarter-final at Villa Park. The former Borussia Dortmund manager threatened to pull out of the League cup if a better date couldn’t be arranged to avoid a potential clash of fixtures. However, a clash has been avoided but now the games are to take place on back-to-back days giving Liverpool a problem to create a schedule around and help players recover.
“We don't know exactly yet [how the logistics will work]. We had to make a decision now and we made the decision because all the other alternatives were more problems than solutions. And that didn't work out. So we said, OK, that's how we can do it as good as possible for us. All the rest, we now have a bit of time to think about that. We have more important things to do now - today playing a game, then concentrating on the next game. But in these next couple of weeks we will make a decision how exactly it will look. But at the end, a Liverpool team will play, 100 per cent.
“The Carabao Cup, it always sounds like we don't want to play it but that's not true. What I don't like about the Carabao Cup, to be 100 per cent honest, is two legs in the semi-final. I don't understand that. The rest is a nice competition. The Club World Cup, you play only if you win the Champions League and that doesn't happen in your life five million times, so that means we will take the opportunity if they ask you. Is it the best time of the year? No. Are we pretty busy? Yes. But you go there and we try to play all the games we have with all that we have, ” said the Liverpool boss to Sky Sports.
