
# Explosive EastEnders trailer sees Mel expose secret before car chase with Sharon

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:57:02+00:00**

Author: **Kyle O&#39;Sullivan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/kyle-osullivan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/explosive-eastenders-trailer-sees-mel-20792414)

EastEnders have revealed an explosive new trailer featuring a high speed car chase.
The race is on for Sharon Mitchell to try and stop Mel Owen from taking the ultimate revenge.
Mel seems hellbent on exposing Sheanu's baby secret - and considers Sharon and Louise's joint 50th and 18th birthday party as the ideal place.
EastEnders viewers can't wait to watch the legendary final battle between the two warring women.
The exciting trailer begins with Mel looking at an old photo with Sharon hanging up in E20 as she plots her revenge scheme.
"Louise’s 18th. Sharon’s 50th. Someone's got to say a few words," says Mel with a wry grin on her face.
Sharon is then seen marching through the Square with Keanu - fearing that Mel will reveal their dirty secret to Phil Mitchell.
Sharon warns: "She’s going to blow the whole lot. Me, you, the baby, everything."
In the E20 office, Mel stares at a photo of her dead son Hunter.
Discussing her friend's mindset, Lisa says: "She’s still in a really bad place. And every now and then she’s going to lose it."
Mel then composes herself before putting on a happy face and walking back to the dance floor, presumably to drop a bombshell.
"I always look out for you," Mel tells Louise as they hug, while grinning across the room at Keanu.
What follows is a lot of stunned faces, including Kathy and Ian Beale, and shocked Kush Kazemi puts his hand to his chest.
Horrified Louise then puts her hand over her mouth - but what has she discovered?
In the garage, worried Keanu asks: "What are we going to do Sharon?"
The mechanic then tells his older lover to get to Phil before Mel manages to.
Sharon and Mel are then engaged in a high speed chase on the motorway.
They both look across at one another as they seemingly hurry to reach Phil first - but who will win?
Excited EastEnders viewers took to Twitter after watching the dramatic trailer.
"I can’t wait to see Queen Sharon recreate Fast and Furious," said one ecstatic fan.
A third added: "Literal goosebumps, so excited!!! The tension, the drama... it's looking to be a drama filled month! Will Mel reach Phil and tell him the secret? Only time will tell..."
"This trailer SNAPPED. Bring on the legendary final revenge of Mel and her final battle with Sharon. CAN. NOT. WAIT," said a third.
A fourth sad: "OMG!! We are in for a bumpy ride!"
* EastEnders airs Mondays and Fridays at 8pm, and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30pm on BBC One
