
# Passing of retired Mayo County Council senior official

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:22:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/04/4181891-passing-of-retired-mayo-county-council-senior-official/)

THE death has taken place of Joseph Loftus, 6 Lower Charles Street, Castlebar, and Manulla.
The deceased, widely known and respected throughout the region, served a director of corporate services with Mayo County Council up to his retirement in 2016.
He was the corporate face of the authority for many years and also worked in planning and human resources before his appointment as a director of services.
A statement issued by the council said all staff members were saddened to learn of Joe's passing.
He was held in high regard by everybody at Aras an Chontae, having worked for the council for over 40 years.
“His loyalty and service to local government were exemplary. Deepest sympathy is tendered to his family on their loss,” the statement added.
He is survived by his wife Mary, daughters Teresa and Michelle, son Joseph, sisters Marion and Anne, cousins, relatives, neighbours and friends, to whom sympathy is extended.
His remains will be reposing at the Coady Funeral Home, Linenhall Street, Castlebar, tomorrow (Tuesday) evening from 5.30 with removal at 7 p.m. to the Church of the Holy Rosary, Castlebar.
Funeral Mass takes place on Wednesday at 11 a.m. with burial afterwards in Balla Cemetery.
May his gentle soul rest in peace.
