
# Have You Seen Her?: Authorities Release Surveillance Photos of Missing Clark Atlanta Student Alexis Crawford

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:44:30+00:00**

Author: **Tanasia Kenney**

Original: [Atlanta Black Star](https://atlantablackstar.com/2019/11/06/have-you-seen-her-authorities-release-surveillance-photos-of-missing-clark-atlanta-student-alexis-crawford/)

The search continues for missing college student Alexis Crawford, who disappeared from her apartment a week ago today.
Crawford’s family said they haven’t seen or heard from the young woman since Oct. 30 and are growing more worried by the day.
“Please prevent any evil that comes her way,” begged her sister, Alexandria Crawford. “We’re here for you. I love you Alexis. I miss you.”
On Tuesday, Atlanta investigators released photos of the missing Clark Atlanta University student the night she disappeared. The new images show Crawford, 21, inside a liquor store at 595 Ralph David Abernathy Blvd in southwest Atlanta.
Police said the photos are the most recent images of Crawford, and show her in the clothing she was last known to be wearing.
Since her vanishing, family and friends have been desperate to finds her. According to local station 11 Alive, Crawford’s disappearance has sparked the hashtag #LETSFINDLEX to help spread awareness online, and volunteers gathered Tuesday to search a overgrown area across the street from her off-campus apartment.
At a press conference Monday, activist and spokesman for the family Rev. Markel Hutchins said Crawford had “recently experienced some things that no young woman should never have to experience.” He did not elaborate, but said the HBCU student went missing under what her family described as a “difficult set of circumstances.”
Police spoke with Crawford’s relatives, as well as a roommate who reported last seeing the young woman in their apartment around 12:30 a.m. on the morning before Halloween. The pair had gone on a liquor store run that night, but the roommate said when she woke up for class the next morning Crawford was gone.
The front door was locked, and Crawford’s phone, ID and debit card were missing from the apartment, authorities said.
Relatives, who reported the young woman missing on Nov. 1, say she is 5 feet 5 and weighs about 140 pounds. She is African-American with dark hair and dark eyes, and was last seen wearing a black shirt / hoodie, a cheetah print head scarf and faux lashes.
Anyone with information on Crawford’s disappearance is asked to contact the Atlanta Police Department’s missing persons unit at 404 546-4235.
