
# Grieving dad slams Clutha probe as 'farce' and reveals he walked out after one hour

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Keith McLeod, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/keith-mcleod/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/grieving-dad-slams-clutha-probe-20765879)

A grieving dad walked out of the Clutha tragedy Fatal Accident Inquiry after an hour and never went back after seeing the array of lawyers and QCs gathered in front of Sheriff Principal Craig Turnbull.
Ian O’Prey was so frustrated with the process he penned a letter which he hoped might be heard at one stage of the 32-day probe.
But his thoughts were never read to the inquiry and now the Daily Record can reveal the contents for the first time.
 
The dad - whose son Mark, 44, died when the police helicopter plunged into the bar in 2013 - said he was dismayed when he heard that the probe was to be held at Hampden Park instead of a recognised court building.
The letter says:”Nearly six years we waited for the FAI farce. It should have been a public inquiry.
“The venue itself reduced the importance of 10 people dead.
“There was no respect for the victims/families.
“It was all about their precious helicopter from day one.
“The Sheriff complimented the victims’ families on their dignity.
“There was certainly none in the inquiry.
“I attented...for one hour. I could not stand the hypocrisy any longer.”
 
Mr O’Prey, 73, was joined by Clutha boss Alan Crossan following the release of the FAI findings on Wednesday - to stand up for pilot Captain David Traill.
Both men - and other families - believe that the experienced pilot, who was also an instructor, has been wrongly held responsible for the disaster on November 29, 2013 that claimed 10 lives. 
They believe that “defects” in the design of the Airbus helicopter may also have played a part.
Sheriff Turnbull said in his determination that Captain Traill had ignored low fuel warnings.
Mr O’Prey’s letter went on:”Stop talking about this damn helicopter, lets talk about the deaths of ten human beings...”
He told the Record:”I could only spend an hour at the inquiry and that was that.
“I saw the venue, saw all the lawyers and thought that after six years of waiting it just wasn’t right.
“I left and never went back.
“I wrote my feelings down and through my lawyer asked if it could be read out, but it never was.”
The crew members who were killed in the helicopter were CaptainTraill, 51, Pc Tony Collins, 43, and Pc Kirsty Nelis, 36.
The seven customers were Gary Arthur, 48, Joe Cusker, 59, Colin Gibson, 33, Robert Jenkins, 61, John McGarrigle, 58, Samuel McGhee, 56, and Mark O’Prey, 44.
The probe concluded the crash happened after the helicopter’s engines flamed out sequentially while it was airborne, as a result of fuel starvation.
In his determination, Sheriff Principal Turnbull said the accident could have been prevented if the pilot had followed emergency procedures relating to low fuel warnings.
A spokesman for Airbus Helicopters, which manufactured the aircraft, said: “We would like to express once again our deepest sympathies to the families, friends and colleagues of those who lost their lives.
“We took immediate action to understand the root cause and we have taken note of the findings of both the AAIB (Air Accident Investigations Branch) and FAI."
A Crown Office spokesman said: “This was an exceptionally complex and challenging investigation and the Crown acknowledges that the time taken from the tragedy occurring to convening the inquiry was longer than desirable and that this compounded the distress suffered by bereaved relatives.”
