
# This wall has become the talk of the town

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Barkha Kumari**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/this-wall-has-become-the-talk-of-the-town/articleshow/71881616.cms)

Children from Richards Town painted a 32-m wall and transformed it from a black spot to a lesson in collaboration Richards Town wore a rather happy look over the weekend. On Saturday, about 20 children painted a wall at the Pottery Road-Clarke Road junction in box colours while adults looked on, guiding them, giving snacks, and clicking photos. There was so much festivity in the air that about 20 traffic cops, manning the junction, also came up to channel their inner painter. The wall was once a broken down railway wall, which had become a black spot. But this is not your regular project to beautify a public space. The Richards Town Children’s Wall Art Project was initiated to bring different stakeholders of the neighbourhood together through art, and it was started by a grant by India Foundation for the Arts under Project 560, which the Richards Town Residents Association (RTRA) bagged this year. A coordinator of this project Anaheeta Pinto explains how this 32-metre long wall, opposite the Clarence High School Main Gate, has now become a source of joy for residents. “Until two months ago, only metal girders and broken bits of the wall stood here. People used to throw old mattresses and furniture while slaughter houses dumped carcasses. Flashers would frequent the spot. After receiving the grant, the RTRA approached the Southern Railways to build a new wall. They didn’t show much interest initially but when they learnt that this would be a children’s project, they came on board.” Then the BBMP and the corporator got metal girders, loose cable wires, overgrown branches and trash removed, and added a compacted sidewalk.
Wall at the Pottery Road-Clarke Road junction is fully transformed. Photo by Divyank Sachdeva
Meanwhile, RTRA selected a set of children in the age group of five to 13 for the wall project. Six of these kids were residents of Richards Town, six students from Clarence school and eight whose parents or grandparents are pourakarmikas. On September 29, the kids were taken for a walk around Richards Town - one of the nine heritage towns of Bengaluru. They stopped by the East Bangalore Railway Station, the 1935-built Band Stand, the Holy Ghost Church, illustrator Paul Fernandes’ studio, and a colonial bungalow, and each made 20 sketches of what they observed. Then, Paul’s son, Aditya, curated a sketch from each child’s book and weaved them into a drawing-cum-snapshot of the place. One of the artists was 14-year-old Vidita Govindachari. Holding a can of paint in her hand on a sunny Saturday afternoon, she said, “I have never done painting but this has been so much fun.” Even for Aditya, leading this design project has been memorable. “The wonder in their eyes and innocence in their drawings takes me back to the days when I was a kid. Their sketches are simplistic yet realistic,” he said. On Sunday, a group of BBMP pourakarmikas gathered down that lane and transformed another wall with colours. For the RTRA, it’s not just about the beautification of the neighbourhood. As Pinto, a brand content creator says, “It’s a celebration of the fact that children have walked around town and learnt new things.” Aditya adds, “Everyone likes a good-looking wall. We are hopeful that it will keep garbage-throwers off.” More importantly, Class 9 student Govindachari says it has united the community
