
# 'Pirates Don’t Need This Coach’

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mazola Molefe**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/rulani-they-don-t-need-me-to-be-vocal/666491)

Rulani Mokwena has admitted that he’s had to exercise self-restraint when speaking publicly because of what he has described as a transitional phase at Orlando Pirates after he took over the reins from Micho Sredojevic two months ago.
The young coach shoots from the hip, usually, and perhaps that was made easier by being the assistant, not the coach as it is now the case. Lately his remarks seem measured and calculated, and he has explained why.

        Read: Soweto Derby: 5 Players To Watch 
      
“I was listening to Phil Jackson (former basketball player and coach) the other day and he said ‘you don’t become the coach that you want, you actually have to become the coach that the team needs’ and in this particular moment, Orlando Pirates don’t need a vocal Rulani Mokwena. It doesn’t need this coach and when you see what we are going through, you can understand why,” Mokwena said.
The Buccaneers, who have only managed three wins in the 10 that Mokwena has been in charge of, face their bitter rivals Kaizer Chiefs in the Soweto Derby tomorrow afternoon to fight for a place in the semifinals of the Telkom Knockout.
It’s an understatement to say Mokwena needs the victory more than his counterpart Ernst Middendorp, who he will meet again in a league fixture seven days later.
“The only talking that needs to happen is on the pitch. It’s not fear, it’s growth. It’s a metamorphosis. As a coach you adapt to the environment and that specific phase that you are facing. But the players know that I fear nothing,” the Pirates coach said.   

        Read: Desperate Plea To The PSL  
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
