
# Strictly's Shirley Ballas won't dance on Children in Need special due to boob op pain

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:56:43+00:00**

Author: **Verity Sulway, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/verity-sulway/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/strictlys-shirley-ballas-wont-dance-20792374)

Strictly Come Dancing judge Shirley Ballas has revealed she will not be able to dance on the upcoming Children In Need special.
The 59-year old had a four-hour operation on Tuesday to remove her breast implants, and she is already returning to work.
Shirley decided to go through with the op because her surgically-enhanced chest had begun to feel "heavy" and was making her feel anxious - especially as she has a family history of cancer.
But while she will still appear on Children In Need, she has said she will not be dancing with fellow judge Bruno Tonioli like she had planned, as her doctor has told her to take it easy while she recovers.
She told The Sun : “I won’t be able to dance with (fellow judge) Bruno (Tonioli) like usual.
"But I think everyone will understand. I’ll be on a limited amount of medication because I don’t want to be twirling too high now, do I?”
Doctors reduced Shirley from a DD to an A cup, and gave her a breast lift in the same operation.
She has since insisted she should never have got the implants and wants other women not to falling into the trap of superficial self-improvement.
Shirley will be returning to Strictly on Saturday.
She says bosses at the BBC were totally supportive of her decision to have surgery during the series, and insisted she didn't need to return to work if she didn't feel well enough.
But she revealed: "I have stuck to all of Dr Waterhouse’s rules apart from one, which was: ‘Don’t go to work on Saturday!’...
“[Strictly bosses were] one thousand and fifty per cent supportive from the beginning...
"I thought they may say, do it after the show.
“They said they didn’t want me back at work unless I am cleared to go back to work.
"They said they would welcome me with open arms and that if I couldn’t come back they would deal with it.
"They told me to take my time and not to make a decision. There was no mention of bringing in another judge, there was none of that at all.”
