
# ‘Tamed’ inflation doesn’t spell relief for us–labor

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:10:50+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/06/tamed-inflation-doesnt-spell-relief-for-us-labor/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
THE government may have “tamed” inflation last month, but the prices of basic goods and services continue to ravage the meager income of workers.
Labor groups made the statement on Tuesday after Malacañang hailed the report of the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) that inflation rate eased to 0.8 percent in October—the lowest in the last three-and-a-half years—from 6.7 percent in the same period last year.
Presidential Spokesman Salvador S. Panelo said this is a sign that President Duterte’s political will and socioeconomic policies, which aim to improve the lives of Filipinos, have finally taken effect.
“This should be good news to all Filipinos, especially to President Rodrigo Roa Duterte’s doubters or cynics unless they see it otherwise, which would then reveal that what they are solely interested in is for this administration to fail,” Panelo said.
Partido Manggagawa (PM) Chairman Renato Magtubo, however, said the lower inflation rate has yet to be felt by workers.
“It has eased, yes, in numbers. But in talipapa and public markets where ordinary workers buy their needs, prices of basic goods showed no dramatic decrease,” Magtubo told the BusinessMirror in an SMS.
Trade Union Congress of the Philippines (TUCP) Spokesman Alan Tanjusay also made the same observation thatthe prices of basic utilities like electricity and water remain exorbitantly high.
“There may be an anomaly between the data and the reality on the grassroots. Many Filipinos are not able to benefit from the lower inflation rate,” Tanjusay said.
Sentro ng mga Nagkakaisa at Progresibong Manggagawa (Sentro) Secretary-General Joshua Mata called Malacañang’s claim on inflation misleading since a lower inflation does not translate to lower prices of goods and services.
“The prices remained high, though its rate of increase slowed down significantly. I think economists call this base effect,” Mata explained. TUCP Vice President Louie Corral said the trend is particularly problematic especially after the cost of living last year soared due to high inflation.
“In 2018, the inflation rate zoomed to 6.9 percent in September of 2018, bringing about the highest consumer prices in goods and commodities in nine years,” Corral said.
“The Filipino worker and his or her family are not better off—pricewise—this year when compared to where they were last year,” he added.
To address this issue, labor groups are now banking on the realization of Duterte’s campaign to reform the wage-setting system.
“At this point time, no. We cannot get an acceptable wage increase from the present mechanism of wage determination: the regional wage boards,” Magtubo said.
PM, TUCP, Sentro are all pushing for the return of the nationalized wage system so all workers will be granted a standard and significant wage hike.
The Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) earlier said it is now conducting studies on the feasibility of the said proposal.
TUCP, Corral said, is pushing for a congressional probe on the current wage-setting mechanism.
“Maybe the wage board route is no longer responsive to our workers’ needs, thereby requiring another mechanism. That could be through a new wage increase criteria solely addressing the hunger of the worker and his family or national wage-setting through legislation,” Corral said.
