
# 11 Pirates Stars Itching For Soweto Derby Debuts

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:34:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/11-players-who-could-debut-for-orlando-pirates-v-kaizer-chiefs/666461)

While some of the Orlando Pirates players  experienced playing in the Soweto Derby during the pre-season’s Carling Black Label Cup, they will now be eager to make their official debut in a Soweto Derby.
10 players in Pirates’ current squad, who are in their first season with the Soweto giants, are yet to play against Kaizer Chiefs in an official PSL outing.    

        Read: 
        
          Pirates’ New Star Chiefs Might Have To Worry About 
        
      
However, of the 10 players, four got the feel of coming up against Amakhosi, when the Buccaneers bagged the bagging rights with their 2-0 victory in the pre-season friendly match in July.
The four players are Bongani Sam, Fortune Makaringe, Gabadinho Mhango and Zakhele Lepasa – the Pirates development product who is in his first season with the first team.

        Read: Amid Controversial Refereeing, Crucial Decision Awaits… 
      
While the four aforementioned players will be keen to face their cross-city rivals again, six others could get their first taste of playing in a Pirates jersey against Chiefs in the Telkom Knockout out tie. 
Those players are Thabiso Monyane, Joris Delle, Kabelo Dlamini, Tshegofatso Mabasa, Austin Muwowo and Tebogo Tloane. The 11th player in a similar situation is Abel Mabaso – though he is in his second season with Bucs.

        Read: Pirates Take Aim At Chiefs, 3 Stars Who Could Add To Resurgence 
      
In his three appearances for Pirates last season, Mabaso didn’t play in both League matches, as well as the TKO semi-final against Chiefs. 
Following the win over Highlands Park earlier in the week, Bucs’ training is abuzz with all the players putting their hands up for coach Rhulani Mokwena to select them for Saturday’s clash at the Moses Mabhida Stadium.    
