
# Pistol Whip review: Learn the art of the gun while toning your butt

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ben Kuchera**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/reviews/2019/11/7/20953344/pistol-whip-review-vr-john-wick-oculus-steam)

Pistol Whip wants to teach you the way of the gun in the same way that Rock Band wanted to teach you the way of the guitar.
And that’s a very specific goal, because Rock Band didn’t teach you anything about actually playing the guitar. Instead it let you mimic the motions of playing, while giving you a sense of what it feels like to shred your way through a solo.
Pistol Whip pulls off the same trick: It won’t actually teach you anything about aiming or firing a gun, but it allows you emulate famous pop culture killers like John Wick while pretending to be a preternaturally talented assassin yourself. It’s interested in selling the fantasy, not any practical application of a real-world ability.

        
          
            Polygon Recommends
          
        
         is our way of endorsing our favorite games. When we award a game the Polygon Recommends badge, it’s because we believe the title is uniquely thought-provoking, entertaining, inventive or fun — and worth fitting into your schedule. If you want to see the very best of the best for your platform(s) of choice, check out 
        
          
            Polygon Essentials
          
        
        .
      
Pistol Whip is designed as a kind of psychedelic version of Superhot, filled with pulsing lights, bright colors, and simplistic but evocative environments and character models that are all synced to the beat of the music. Your own body is represented by one — or two, if you decide to dual wield — floating guns. Who you are doesn’t matter in this game, you’re not a character. You’re you, in other words. And the game sees you as the angel of death. I never knew I needed a game that made me feel like John Wick after dropping a tab of particularly strong acid, but here we are.
Pistol Whip is a rhythm VR game currently out on Steam and the Oculus store, with support for both tethered Oculus headsets and the stand-alone Oculus Quest. I played it on the Oculus Quest, because the extra freedom was more than worth the visual downgrade necessary to cram the game onto the portable headset.
