
# Save $10 On Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:37:27+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-amazon-fire-tv-stick-4k-sale-deal-black-friday.html)

Amazon has the Fire TV Stick 4K on sale, ahead of Black Friday. It's discounted by $10, and this is likely going to be the same price that the Fire TV Stick 4K will be on Black Friday in a few weeks. So you might as well pick it up right now, when you won't have to wait to get the Fire TV Stick 4K in your hands.
This is also going to make for a really great stocking stuffer, or a secret Santa present that's not going to cost a ton.
The Fire TV Stick 4K is the high-end model of the Fire TV line. This is because it supports 4K and HDR content, giving you a really great picture. It still runs on Fire TV OS, which offers a ton of great apps and other features.
Advertisement
All of the big name apps that you'd expect to see on the Fire TV Stick 4K, are here. That includes Netflix, YouTube, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu and so much more. Making it a really great present for those cordcutters out there.
Of course, there is also Alexa included in the Fire TV Stick 4K. Allowing you to ask Alexa to find something to watch, or open up Netflix. You can also control your smart thermostat, or smart lights via your TV with Alexa. And of course, Alexa is also great for showing your security camera live feeds. Definitely nice for when someone is at the door.
This is a really great deal on the Fire TV Stick 4K, and according to the ad-scans we've seen for the Black Friday sale at many retailers, it's going to be $39.99. So you might as well grab it now.
Advertisement
You can pick up the Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K from Amazon right now by clicking here.

        Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K - Amazon - $39
      
