
# Emma Watson says she is ‘self-partnered’ rather than single

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:29:03+00:00**

Author: **Sabrina Barr**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/dating/emma-watson-single-self-partnered-relationship-little-women-a9185311.html)

Emma Watson has discussed how happy she feels to be single as she prepares for her upcoming 30th birthday, describing herself as “self-partnered”.
The Little Women star, who celebrates her birthday next April, explained in a new interview with British Vogue that she never used to understand why people would “make such a big fuss about turning 30”.
However, when she reached 29, she said she felt “stressed and anxious” due to the “bloody influx of subliminal messaging” that surrounded her.
“If you have not built a home, if you do not have a husband, if you do not have a baby, and you are turning 30, and you’re not in some incredibly secure, stable place in your career, or you’re still figuring things out… There’s just this incredible amount of anxiety,” Watson stated.
The activist added that she never used to believe the “‘I’m happy single’ spiel”, but that her perspective on the subject has now changed.
“I was like, ‘This is totally spiel’,” she said.
“It took me a long time, but I’m very happy [being single]. I call it being self-partnered.”
One Twitter user praised Watson for her stance on being single, relating to the notion that there should be no sense of shame when a person is not in a relationship.
“I turn 30 two weeks before Emma Watson. This is so good from her,” one person tweeted.
“I will respond ‘self-partnered and shopping for an allotment’ whenever anyone asks. What a force she is.”
“I’m now referring to myself as self-partnered instead of single, I love my new relationship status, thank u Emma Watson for this [sic],” another wrote.
In the British Vogue interview, Watson added that she found 2019 “tough” as she “had all these ideas” about what her life would look like at this point.
Earlier this year, Watson helped to launch a free legal advice helpline for women who have experienced sexual harassment at work.
Managed by charitable fund Rosa and backed by the Time’s Up UK Justice and Equality Fund, the helpline is available to women in England and Wales at 020 7490 0152.
When the phone number is dialled, the caller is connected to a representative from charity Rights of Women, which provides women with legal advice and information.
