
# NDRRMC tallies deaths in 2 strong Mindanao quakes

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:42:33+00:00**

Author: **Marlon Purificacion**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/ndrrmc-tallies-deaths-2-strong-mindanao-quakes)

Two remained missing while 327 were injured, the NDRRMC said yesterday.
Aside from destroying houses the two most recent temblors damaged other infrastructure including buildings, roads and bridges.
A total of 28,222 infrastructure were reported damaged as of Saturday morning. These are in Regions IX, X, XI, XII and Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao.
Families in 149 barangays in Regions XI and XII were affected totaling 29,349 or 146,745 people.
The strong earthquakes displaced 4,127 families or 20,635 people who are now staying in 27 evacuation centers. Those sheltering elsewhere are 1,370 families or 6,850 people.
Private groups and other donors have responded along with the Department of Social Welfare and Development and the Office of Civil Defense in Region XI which  have given assistance worth P15,200,373 of P15,200,373 to affected families.
The strong earthquakes followed the October 16 deadly quake in the same region.
Worst hit Tulunan, Cotabato was rocked by a magnitude 6.6 earthquake on Tuesday morning, then a magnitude 6.5 quake on Thursday morning.
Aftershocks may still be coming, of which struck early yesterday morning with magnitude 4.5, the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology said.

        PHIVOLCS data
      
Senator Richard Gordon has requested the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHILVOLCS) for some significant data to fully educate the people on the condition of the earthquake stricken areas.
In a letter addressed to PHILVOLCS Director Dr. Renato U. Solidum Jr., Gordon said that the consecutive disasters gave the Philippine Red Cross (PRC), which he heads, a “cause to inform and prepare the public on the actual current situation as their safety is of utmost importance.”
Gordon asked the following from PHILVOLCS:
1. Updated seismic status of Mindanao; current fault reading and other pertinent information which may be used to ensure the safety of the public;
2. Historical data on earthquakes that occurred in those areas for the past five years; and
3. Seismic map of Mindanao and the Philippines.
“With your support, the Philippine Red Cross will be more effective in extending help to the most vulnerable Filipinos,” Gordon said in the letter.
The PRC has been actively helping and extending its services to the areas hit and damaged by the earthquakes for the past two weeks by way of providing ambulances and water-tankers, medical tents with generators and truck-loads of support for evacuation centers.
Gordon, who continuously monitors for updates on the disaster, has ordered the PRC chapters to intensify their operations so that they could respond and send assistance immediately.
