
# 7 arrested for impersonating KCSE candidates at a private school in Kisii

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:04:54+00:00**

Author: **Maya Aluel**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/7-arrested-for-impersonating-kcse-candidates-at-a-private-school-in-kisii/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya Nov 5 – Seven people were arrested on Tuesday for impersonating Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) candidates in an elaborate cheating scheme at a private school in Kisii, Education Cabinet Secretary Prof George Magoha announced.
      
The suspects were arrested alongside the academy’s proprietor and four others who will face charges in court Wednesday.
ADVERTISEMENT
Prof Magoha said the plot is part of a wider scheme to manipulate the ongoing examinations in Nyanza region where he has pitched tent since Monday when the nationwide assessment of Form IV candidates commenced.
He warned of tough action against any teacher or education official involved in examination malpractice.
Speaking during the distribution of KCSE examination papers at the Kisumu East Deputy County Commissioner’s office, Prof Magoha said he was aware some parents in Homa Bay, Migori and Kisii counties have made contributions to buy examination papers.
He said centre managers who collude to prematurely expose KCSE exams will be held responsible and face administrative action.
A supervisor was due in court Tuesday after being arrested in Nairobi West where an English Paper 2 examination was opened prematurely under unclearly circumstances.
“There are still a few center managers who seem to have collected a lot of money from people and what they are trying to do is now to justify that money has to be accounted for,” the CS said.
“Keep watching to avoid earlier exposure, this morning we told them in every container to read and read again and this are people who managed schools, so you can’t say you opened it by mistake, that one we cannot hold and that why you will be responsible for your own mistake,” Magoha emphasized.
The CS promised to take serious action against school managers found engaging in examination malpractice.
Prof Magoha’s warning came amid heighted vigilance in Kisii where twenty-one students enrolled for KCSE in South Mugirango constituency resurface to sit for this the exams after a long period of absenteeism.
Another candidate from an unnamed school in Etago sub-county was arrested after attacking and injuring a police officer. Authorities said the candidate will write the exam in police custody.
Kisii County Acting Commissioner, Leonard Mugute confirmed the incidents clarifying no exam irregularities had been so far reported.
Post Views: 187
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
