
# Twitter reacts to Rishabh Pant “converting” simple stumping into free-hit

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:17:25+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/twitter-reacts-to-rishabh-pant-converting-simple-stumping-into-free-hit?utm_medium=rss)


        Rishabh Pant was already in the firing line for his performances behind the stumps and today, against Bangladesh, he provided the arsenal that would put nuclear bombs to shame. After collecting the ball in front of the stumps to cost Chahal a wicket, Twitter was in no mood to forgive him.
      
Post their win in the first T20I in Delhi, Bangladesh walked out in Rajkot a confident side. With Khaleel getting whacked for 24 runs in just two overs, Rohit Sharma decided to hand the final over of the powerplay to the ever-reliable Yuzvendra Chahal. And the RCB man started off well, conceding just two runs off as many deliveries. It got even better on the third ball of the over as Chahal left Liton Das gasping for air with a brilliant leg spinner. Or so India thought!
Pant appeared to do everything right. He collected the ball cleanly and whipped off the bails with Liton nowhere in the picture. But what was a regulation stumping - dare we say MS Dhoni would have inflicted with his eyes closed - Pant managed to mess up. As the third umpire, Anil Chaudhary, decided to have a look at it, the replays showcased the blunder in high definition. Pant, instead of waiting for the ball to arrive, collected the ball in front of the stumps before taking off the bails. 
Not only was Liton given not out, the Bangladesh opener was also awarded a free-hit which he smashed right back over Chahal’s head for a boundary to rub salt into India’s wounds. The Twitteratti were in no mood to forgive the youngster for the error and made their frustration well known.

        This is what happened! 
      
