
# Acne Studios and Mulberry Solidify Their Friendship With a Special Handbag Collection

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:54:00+00:00**

Author: **Nerisha Penrose**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/fashion/shopping/a29697316/acne-studios-mulberry-handbag-collection/)

If there's one thing that both Acne Studios and Mulberry share it's a huge cool factor. So fans were all eyes and ears when it was announced that the two brands would be joining forces for a special collaboration.
After making the announcement on Instagram, both houses teased the upcoming "friendship collaboration" by posting a video of a new logo that shows Acne Studios lettering as the leaves in Mulberry's tree logo.
Launching today, November 5, the collection melds Mulberry's signature effortlessly elegant style with Acne Studios' minimalist, off-kilter construction and consists of 17 handbags and small leather goods. The hallmark of the collection is Acne Studios' origami knot Musubi bag combined with Mulberry's Bayswater bag that comes in different sizes and three colors: brown, black, and pink. Other styles include Mulberry's Scotchgrain satchel with multiple oversized metal hardware and straps.
Mulberry & Acne Studios Small Musubi Bayswater Pink Small Classic Grainmulberry.com$1,495.00 SHOP NOW
Mulberry & Acne Studios Micro Musubi Bayswater Black Silky Calfmulberry.com$1,225.00 SHOP NOW
Mulberry & Acne Studios Messenger Pink Small Classic Grainmulberry.com$1,125.00 SHOP NOW
Mulberry & Acne Studios Mini Crossbody Messenger Black Matte Crocmulberry.com$1,065.00 SHOP NOW
The collaboration was birthed from a longstanding friendship between Acne Studios creative director Jonny Johansson and Mulberry's CEO Thierry Andretta.
"This is a collection about friendship and our freedom as brands to do what we want to do. It is like a conversation between Acne Studios and Mulberry, one that is founded in mutual respect and a desire to make great product,” Johansson said in a statement. Andretta added that the collaboration "is a perfect manifestation of the spirit of both our brands. It showcases Acne Studios’ wonderful Swedish design ethos and celebrates both the British heritage and modernity of Mulberry."
Priced between $110 to $1,675, the Acne Studios x Mulberry collection is available now at acnestudios.com and mulberry.com, and will hit shelves at select Acne Studios and Mulberry stores internationally starting today.
