
# Billie Eilish Ends Up With ‘Mullet’ After Botched Dye Job—Turns It Into New Look

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Thanussha Priyah**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407257/Billie-Eilish-Ends-Up-With-Mullet-After-Botched-Dye-Job-Turns-It-Into-New-Look/)

Billie Eilish rocked a new hairstyle at the 2019 LACMA Art + Gala, which she attended with her brother Finneas O’Connell. The Bad Guy singer had neon green roots with a freshly-chopped jet black haircut that resembled a mullet. The 17-year-old was decked in full Gucci gear with matching bejeweled sneakers, a chunky necklace and oversized shades. Fans have lauded the singer for bringing back the 80s look once embodied by legendary icons such as Joan Jett and David Bowie. Amusingly, Eilish was the last person to find out what her hairdo would look like. When asked by a reporter, “All your fans are loving the mullet, are you gonna start a trend now?” A surprised Eilish responded, “Mullet? What you mean, mullet? The musician was completely confused, but laughed it off when she found out that her hairdo was being called a mullet. She then explained that her new hairstyle was a result of a bad dye job. Advertisement Advertisement “Somebody dyed my hair and burned half of it,” she divulged. “So now it looks like a mullet.” “That s**t is not on purpose though,” she added. The reporter, like many of her fans, encouraged the singer to keep the hairstyle but Eilish was quick to shut it down. “No, I’m growing that s**t out,” she said. It won’t be long before Eilish changes up her hairstyle. So, before it’s gone, let’s appreciate her mullet while we still can. Check out her complete look during the LACMA Art + Gala below.
[via Business Insider, images via Tinseltown / Shutterstock.com]
