
# Saracens face Premiership relegation after salary cap points deduction and hefty fine

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:23:12+00:00**

Author: **Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/saracens-face-premiership-relegation-after-salary-cap-points-deduction-and-hefty-fine)

Saracens have been docked 35 points and fined more than £5million over breaches of salary cap rules.
The penalty leaves the London club on -26 points in the early Gallagher Premiership table and facing relegation at the end of the season.
A statement from Premiership Rugby announced: “The sanction that has been imposed on Saracens Rugby Club by the panel is a total fine of £5,360,272.31 and a total deduction of 35 league points.”
The alleged breaches spanned the last three seasons but the points deduction will be applied in full this season.
The Premiership Rugby statement added: “The decision of the independent panel is that Saracens Rugby Club failed to disclose payments to players in each of the seasons 2016/17, 2017/18 and 2018/19.

        (Continue reading below…)
      

        Click here to see the video
      
“In addition, the club is found to have exceeded the ceiling for payments to senior players in each of the three seasons. The panel, therefore, upheld all of the charges.
“The salary cap regulations stipulate that a points deduction may be imposed in the current season (2019-20) only. The sanction has no bearing on any other domestic or European competition.”
Saracens have won back-to-back Premiership titles and are reigning European champions, but this decision is a hammer blow to the team both on a sporting and financial level.
