
# Hector Bellerin tells Granit Xhaka that Arsenal stars need “to learn to deal” with abuse

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:35:21+00:00**

Author: **Neil McLeman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/neil-mcleman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/hector-bellerin-tells-granit-xhaka-20820121)

Hector Bellerin has told Granit Xhaka that Arsenal stars need “to learn to deal” with abuse as he offered his support to the deposed Gunners captain.
The Spaniard will take over as skipper for Wednesday's Europa League tie against Vitoria Guimaraes in northern Portugal.
But Bellerin has also suffered vitriolic criticism from his owns fans – memorably during a terrible display at Crystal Palace in 2017 – and temporarily deleted his Twitter account last year because of vicious online attacks.
“That was the situation with me and it was obviously really hard for me back then,” said the former Barcelona youth player now 24.
“It was the first time something like that had happened to me. At the time it was hard to deal with it.
“But I said to Granit, this is like in every single other walk of life: there are ups and downs. One day you are at the top, the other day you are low. These are things we need to learn to deal with. The good thing is when these things happen to you personally, you have a whole squad that can back you, a whole squad that support you.
“That’s what happened with me back then. I was very young and I had all the older players telling me not to worry about these things. You keep your head down, you train, you do better and then everyone forgets or forgives. It’s going to be the same situation with him and I spoke to him when it happened. As I say, time heals.”
Bellerin, who is set to make only his fifth appearance since a serious knee injury, joined Arsenal team-mates Mesut Ozil and Emi Martinez in offering his backing to Xhaka.
“Sometimes it’s hard to deal with like feelings,” added the Spaniard. “He made a mistake but as a dressing room we have to be together. These things happen and that’s it. We back him. He is playing his part now. We respect the players, we respect the decision of the coach and the club. For us it’s just to give him our love and care. He’s one of us so we’re just helping him get through it.”
Arsenal were booed off after the home draw with Wolves at the weekend and their last win was against the Portuguese side thanks to two late free kicks from Nicolas Pepe. But a fourth Group F win today should see last year's finalists return to the knockout stages.
It’s been a tough couple of weeks in terms of the results but I always say the thing with football and especially in a club like Arsenal is you have the chance to redeem yourself every two, three days,” Bellerin added.
New club captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Mesut Ozil have also been left in London but Kieran Tierney has travelled despite Arsenal requesting the full-back to be left out of Steve Clarke's Scotland squad yesterday.
The Europa League tie is being held on Wednesday because local rivals Sporting Braga play at home on Thursday while the 3.50pm is to avoid a clash with Champions League fixtures.
