
# Two seasons of the Critical Role animated series coming to Amazon Prime

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Petrana Radulovic**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/5/20947648/critical-role-legend-of-vox-machina-animated-series-amazon-prime-two-seasons)

Critical Role: The Legend of Vox Machina, the upcoming animated series from popular “actual play” role-playing podcast Critical Role, will stream exclusively on Amazon Prime. The show will run for two, 12-episode seasons and will be animated by Titmouse (Big Mouth, The Venture Bros.).
Critical Role originally launched a Kickstarter for a possible animated episode. The proposed project was only supposed to be for a 22-minute piece, but the campaign ended up raising $11.3 million — enough to fund a full 10-episode season (and strike up some interesting conversations across the tabletop roleplay community). It became the most successful project in Kickstarter history. Amazon ordered 14 more episodes for a total of 24.
The show will be an adult-animated comedy, taking place in the Critical Role universe with Laura Bailey, Taliesin Jaffe, Ashley Johnson, Liam O’Brien, Matthew Mercer, Marisha Ray, Sam Riegel, and Travis Willingham reprising their roles in the podcast. The cast will also serve as executive producers, joined by Brandon Auman (Star Wars: Resistance) and Chris Prynoski (Metalocalypse).
The Legend of Vox Machina will start before the adventuring gang teams up and follow their adventures as they band together to save their kingdom.
“We were absolutely floored by the level of enthusiasm we received on the Kickstarter campaign, and now we can deliver exactly what the fans wanted, and more,” said Riegel and Willingham in a press release.
There is no set date on the series premiere.
