
# Nando's branch promises to open on Christmas Day to feed city's homeless

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:09:01+00:00**

Author: **Brendan McFadden, Kirsty McKenzie**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/nandos-branch-promises-open-christmas-20799418)

Nando's in Glasgow city centre has promised to feed homeless people for free on Christmas Day.
The kind staff announced that it would be exclusively opening to rough sleepers on Facebook .
It also urged people to donate gifts such as scarfs and gloves, toiletries and sleeping bags which it will give to the homeless, Glasgow Live reported.
Nando's wrote: "We are planning on opening on Christmas Day to feed some of Glasgow’s many homeless.
"We’d love to be able to give them some gifts to help them keep warm and clean and we need your help!
 
"We have placed a bin at our entrance and would love if you could help us fill it with hats, gloves, blankets, toiletries, jackets, sleeping bags etc.
"Anything you can give would help so we can give these people at little bit of cheers on Christmas Day."
Hundreds responded and pledged to donate items and offering to volunteer on Christmas Day to help the Nandos staff.
The post has now been shared over 11k times and has over 600 comments.
One person replied: "What an awesome plan. Bless you for your kindness."
Another commented:  "What a wonderful kind, caring thing to do!"
A third said: "Reading all comments there are so many wonderful kind people who are always willing to donate. Where would we be without this generosity from them. Congratulations to Nando's and to all the other compassionate people out there."
Nando's staff were overwhelmed by the positive response.
Manager Andy Patrao later commented:  "Thank you so much for all your kind offers of help and support for what we are trying to achieve. It is truly overwhelming.
"I am meeting with with a number of charities with a lot more experience than myself at all of this so we hope to be able to make the most of all the offers that have been flooding in and really make the most of everyone’s kindness and generosity."
"So touching! People really do make Glasgow."
For more information on how to donate, visit Nando's  Facebook page .
