
# Motorola One Power is getting an Android 10 Beta update

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:21:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/motorola-one-power-getting-android-10-beta-update/)

While a couple of manufacturers have already rolled out stable Android 10 to a handful of devices, most others are still in the beta testing phase. A few Xiaomi devices have received closed beta updates for MIUI 11 based on Android 10, Huawei has started beta signups for the P30 and P30 Pro, and Samsung has announced the One UI 2.0 beta for the Galaxy S10 and Note 10 series. Most recently, LG launched an Android 10 preview for its flagship LG G8 ThinQ and now, Motorola is following suit.
The company has started rolling out an Android 10 closed beta update for the Motorola One Power. As of now, the update is rolling out to Moto One Power owners who are registered on the Motorola Feedback Network. The update includes all the features introduced in Android 10, however, it’s still on the Android security patch for October 2019. It’s also worth noting that Google Pay doesn’t work in the current release (build version QPT30.52-2), but Motorola has ensured that it should be functional in a few days.
In case you wish to try out the update on your device, you can register on the Motorola Feedback Network by following this link. As of now, there’s no information from the company regarding a stable rollout.

        Thanks to Telegram user @Hasaber8 for the tip and screenshots.
      
