
# Gym owner lost son to knife crime as he battled to keep kids off the streets with free boxing classes

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Balloo, https://www.facebook.com/MissBalloo/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/gym-owner-lost-son-knife-17170788)

Simon Haycock is a man on a mission.
The Kings Norton gym owner has been battling to keep kids off the streets and out of trouble for two years by offering free boxing classes.
Every week up to a 100 youngsters of all ages come together to socialise and enjoy the complimentary sessions, which stress the importance of friendship, fitness and discipline.
Simon, 39, and his volunteer coaches breathe life into a long-lost vision where kids can just be kids, no matter who they are.
Yet the classes are NOT about fighting. They focus on giving the kids something to do and somewhere to belong in a city where violence is soaring and youth centres are being hit hard by austerity.
It is violence that Simon knows only too well.
He tragically lost his youth worker son Jordan Moazami to knife crime in April.
The tragedy is not the reason behind the locally sponsored classes, he stresses, but the death has understandably strengthened his fight against the city's spiralling knife crime problem.
Like father like son, 18-year-old Jordan was a role model to younger kids too, taking part in community-led projects before he was sadly murdered on a Harborne street.
That willingness to help others was 'in his blood', explains the proud dad as he reveals that he and his son were 'almost identical' in personality.
Paying tribute to Jordan for the first time, Mr Haycock said: "Jordan was very much similar to me in his personality. He was very similar. He was almost identical in a sense.
"He had that little naughty streak I had when I was younger. But he was never bad. There's a difference isn't there?
"He was a little mischievous so you've got that, but then there's this evil that seems to be taking over in the world."
Evil - just one of many fitting words hurled at Jordan's killer, Hameed Hussein, as he was escorted down to the cells to serve life with a minimum term of 19 years in prison this month.
"He did all sorts of bits and pieces [in the community]. He was a young lad, very chilled, he had manners - probably more from his mum, she played more of a part in that than me, she did really well with him," his father adds.
"I'll give you an example I always bring up.
"When he was only about 13 he wanted to get his girlfriend a present from town because it was her birthday.
"I was thinking what do you buy a 13, 14 year old? I said 'what do you wanna buy her then?
"He goes: 'Well, I was thinking I want to get her a really nice necklace.' I said 'oh do you now? That's good of you, why on earth am I going to do this?'
"He said: 'You know what it is dad? Her Nan died last week she's really down, I really wanted to do something nice to cheer her up.'
"I thought, that summed him up really. I can imagine me doing and saying something like that. He had that about him, which was always a good quality."
A lack of discipline, respect and of course youth facilities is worsening the knife crime crisis which claimed the life of his son, Simon believes.
He speaks of a five-year-old who urinated in his hand and rubbed it in another child's face - but wasn't disciplined by the school.
Then there was a tiny boy of seven who stared aggressively at a Hawkesley Square shop owner because 'he knows nobody can touch him'.
"This kid, tiny little thing - must have been about seven or eight - picked up some sweets and dropped them, the shopkeeper said could you put them back please?" said Simon.
"He went 'No'.
"The shopkeeper went to tell him off, and the kid looks around, stared at him - and this is the maddest thing you've ever seen - stared at him like aggressively as if to say like 'what?'
"This kid already at this age knows that nobody can tell him off, nobody can hurt him, nobody can touch him.
"It's creating monsters. This generation have become fearless."
Another young boy, who was brought to the free gym classes by his parents, had come to make friends after having urine rubbed in his face at school.
"They brought him here, this kid had had a horrible time at school. Another kid had urinated in his hand and rubbed it in his face," said Simon.
"The school said 'we're not going to do anything because it's his first offence'. He's not called him fatty, this kid has urinated in his hand and rubbed it in another kid's face - this kid needs help, this kid needs help asap."
 
Simon offered free membership to a couple of kids wreaking havoc on the Hawkesley estate - but was forced to kick them out when money got stolen from the gym.
"They were always roaming the streets," he said.
"You could tell nobody gave a s*** about them, it was horrible to see.
"They were causing a lot of problems round that estate. They were only young and I tried letting them in the gym at one point.
"They would always run in the gym and try and cause problems."
But a year on, the boys reportedly became involved in serious violence in the Kings Norton area.
"They held a truck driver up at knife point. When I say these kids are little, these kids are absolutely tiny. They held him up at knife point, one of the other members ran across to help the guy."
To stop the violence, Simon says we must look to a simpler time when kids could fight and didn't 'have to carry a knife'.
He said: "You're not going to get a hardened gang member suddenly go: 'Ok, I'm going to put the knife down and do boxing.'
 
"You've got to go back 20/30 years and think why didn't kids carry knives then?"
Simon admits that he was no angel growing up, but says he never armed himself in the way teens do today.
"When I was growing up I was in all sorts of trouble, but I never once considered having a knife. But looking back, every kid you knew did something," he said.
"I did judo, I did a bit of karate, a little bit of boxing, the kids opposite me did karate, kid two doors down did boxing. Kid across the road did kid boxing.
"Now kids don't do anything - they don't do anything.
 
"But now, suddenly these kids get to this age, they think instead of fighting, because they can't fight, they think they're going to have to carry a knife.
"It's a declining society. Manners, politeness have been lost over the genrations.
"Kids that are borderline... about to go bad. Grab them quickly and do something with them, get them into the boxing - there's always a chance you can help them."
Though he plays a big part in running the classes and they're held in his gym, modest Simon refuses to take credit - instead emphasising that it's down to the volunteers giving up their time.
Many of the coaches have their own children, but choose to spend their evenings teaching these kids.
Boxer Tommy Collins who recently made his professional debut - and won - is among those devoting his spare time to the community project.
The youth classes have taken off over the last couple of years, with 40 children attending the Monday class.
Yet Simon says the boxing sessions were born from an accident.
"It was purely by accident, one of the volunteers said 'yeah anyone can come'," he recalled.
"I'd like to take credit for it but it was actually one of the other volunteers."
The team then found themselves inundated with local kids, many of whom were being bullied while others were causing trouble on the streets.
One child, who suffered with a health condition, was afraid to go to football because he was being bullied, but was welcomed with open arms to the classes.
Speaking on the large number of kids in each class, Simon says: "Sometimes it's chaos, but it's something to do.
"It's not about boxing, we're not going to take them pro, we're not going to take them amateur.
"It's about giving them confidence, getting them out of the house, off the streets, teaching them to make friends."
There are five or six teenagers who have even been given free memberships for their 'dedication to the gym' too - to allow them one-on-one time.
The gym also runs 'nights out' where the kids can meet friends, have fun and just enjoy being kids.
Simon adds: "They had the best time ever, it was like going back 20 years where kids were playing with each other, they all got into wrestling and were all screaming and shouting.
"Some kids in there have got real attitudes on them, so sometimes we can be a little bit stern with them. But the parents actually side with us on that, and it's working.
"We had a kid the other week who had so much attitude on him. 'I'm not doing this. I'm not doing that.'

        Monday
      
6-7pm

        Thursday
      
7-8pm

        Friday (selected kids)
      
6-7pm

        Saturday
      
10-11am
"We just weren't standing for his nonsense, he's there now enjoying himself and doing what he's told. It's nice to see."
When we visited there was no attitude - just 30 enthusiastic kids having fun with the various activities and obediently following instruction.
Along the way Simon's even been happy to pull money out of his own pocket to pay for coaches and equipment for the kids amid broken promises with sponsors.
And thanks to a stream of funding from local businesses within the community, the gym now runs free youth classes every Monday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday.
"We're just a small gym which doesn't make much money, if every gym - the big chains - could put something on, it would make a difference," he says.
"All the community is actually doing something, which is the nicest part. We couldn't put four classes on a week without them," explains Simon with a subtle nudge to name-drop sponsors Bell plumbing supplies, Prosperity Wealth, Panache Watches, Mr Handsome's Barbers, The Autism Shop in Stirchley, James Dixon and Neru Bhalla-Stout.
There are plans to progress the project even further, with talks to run a class every night of the week, a street dance class every couple of months and more trips for the kids.
Simon - who has had support from West Midlands Police and West Midlands Fire Service - also hopes to convert the Fitness Factory Ltd to a Community Interest Company.
