
# Liverpool first and second XIs reviewed after Reds agree to two games in two days

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-first-second-xis-reviewed-20785091)

Two different games, two different competitions, two different continents, less than 24 hours, but only one club.
Liverpool are in for a busy mid-December.
It was announced on Tuesday that the Reds will play their Carabao Cup quarter-final against Aston Villa at Villa Park on December 17, just a day before the semi-final of the Club World Cup in Qatar.
It might not ideal - with goalkeeper Alisson Becker calling the situation "ridiculous" - but The Reds arrived at the decision after looking at all available options, in the end seeing it as their preferred choice as they seek to avoid fixture congestion in January.
 
Jurgen Klopp's side will have to negotiate a December 18 semi-final and a December 21 final if they want to be crowned Club World Champions, before returning to domestic matters with a Premier League fixture at Leicester on Boxing Day.
The likelihood is that a much younger squad will stay behind and play the Villa game, perhaps with a sprinkling of six or seven senior players who have been named in the 23-man squad for Qatar, who will then jet off to Doha.
But if you had to name a first and second Liverpool XI, who's be in it?
We've had a look here.
For a while Reds fans would tell you that it was difficult to work out Klopp's best team, but the German certainly seems to have hit upon a formula that he likes both during the back end of last season and the beginning of this one.
In fact, you need look no further than June's Champions League final for his preferred selection, one which he hasn't yet been able to field this season due to injuries.
Alisson starts in goal, there's a back four of Trent Alexander-Arnold, Joel Matip, Virgil van Dijk and Andy Robertson, with Fabinho anchoring the midfield behind Jordan Henderson and Gini Wijnaldum, even though there are often questions over that trio's creativity.
Ahead of them comes the famed front three of Mohamed Salah, Roberto Firmino and Sadio Mane.
A number of Liverpool's exciting young players are pushing for places in this side, but when the entire squad is laid out there is still an array of more senior stars blocking their path.
Goalkeeper Adrian was an excellent understudy for the injured Alisson at the start of the Premier League season, while centre-backs Dejan Lovren and Joe Gomez have both spent time as Van Dijk's first-choice partner.
James Milner always does a steady job when filling in at left-back, while Ki-Jana Hoever - who is currently at the Under-17 World Cup with the Netherlands - looks a fine talent at right-back.
Adam Lallana, Naby Keita and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain make up an experienced midfield, with Xherdan Shaqiri, the exciting Rhian Brewster and goal hero Divock Origi in attack.
Reds fans want to see more of the club's young talent though, and so it is only right that they get a mention as they strive for more appearances in the senior setup.
Caoimhin Kelleher, Neco Williams, Sepp van den Berg, Curtis Jones and Harvey Elliott all featured in that Arsenal win, and all of them look fine talents.
Don't bet against seeing them again in the next round at Villa, with senior players heading for Qatar.
And even if they aren't, then it won't be long until another fixture comes around.
