
# Microsoft reveals new Edge logo

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:26:00+00:00**

Author: **Henry Burrell**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/news/internet/microsoft-reveals-new-edge-logo-3777137/)

Microsoft has shown off a new logo for its Edge browser. The new look swirl resembles the classic ‘E’ of both Internet Explorer and its successor Edge but is different enough to distance itself from that aesthetic.
Internet Explorer and its original logo are synonymous with the first wave of family personal computing in the 1990s and is likely the portal through which most millennials accessed the internet. In the 2000s its popularity has been severely hit by Firefox, the resurgence of Apple and Safari, and of course Google Chrome.
Millions of users choose Chrome on a Windows PC instead of Edge despite Edge being preinstalled and set as the default browser. This points to the user’s attraction to Google’s ecosystem and syncing, as well as a streamlined product. Despite constant updates, Edge still feels like a familiar descendent of Internet Explorer.
There’s also the attraction of Google’s search product rather than the Bing engine used in Edge.
But if you want to get away from the prying eyes of Google, then Edge is a way out – even if you are surrendering your search and browsing data to another tech giant in Microsoft.
Microsoft in recent years has successfully changed its business focus to services and away from hardware, particularly in mobile. Its Office 365 subscription model now doesn’t care what device you use it from, so long as you’re paying.
For Edge it’s a slightly different matter as many of us simply don’t use it. But at least Microsoft has figured out that it’s best to concentrate on its software strategy. That said, its Surface products are a fine if expensive first party hardware line that continues to grow.
Click here for the best Microsoft voucher codes.
