
# Olympic qualifiers: Showtime for Indian hockey

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:30:59+00:00**

Author: **Jaspreet Sahni**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/top-stories/olympic-qualifiers-showtime-for-indian-hockey/articleshow/71848608.cms?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=TOIDesktop)

BHUBANESWAR: On Thursday, a day before the Indian hockey teams hit the home stretch in the race to Olympic qualifiers, a quote from men's team captain Manpreet Singh struck a chord, and then stayed with everyone inside the press conference room here at the Kalinga Stadium.
Manpreet was answering a question on India's opponents, Russia, particularly about how India's experienced players help youngsters to stay on their toes and not get complacent.
Nestled between his long response, he mentioned something SV Sunil told the young men.
"Sunil gave the example of 2008," said Manpreet, revealing certain details about a team meeting.
It was enough to summon the memories of that dreaded day of March 10, 2008, still fresh for Indian hockey lovers. A 2-0 defeat against England in Santiago brought India's Beijing Olympics dream crashing down. For the first time in 80 years, Indian hockey wasn't at the Summer Games.
The dramatic touch, which should keep the India men on their toes, was provided by Russian coach Vladimir Konkin.
"I promise you, we came here to fight and it will be a good battle," he said, and added: "In the FIH rankings, we are 22nd but in our souls, we are quite high."
The ironic part is that in the 2008 Olympic qualifiers in Santiago, India had blanked Russia 8-0. Interestingly, the second and last meeting between the two teams happened 11 years later, at the FIH Series Finals earlier this year, when India ran home 10-0 winners.
While the gulf between the two teams has continued to widen after the disintegration of the Soviet Union (USSR), India's new coach Graham Reid is not one to be complacent or allow anyone else to do that.
He, in fact, reminded people of what happened last weekend, when the first set of Olympic qualifiers were played. Pakistan stunned Netherlands in a 4-4 draw, before losing the next game and the Ireland-Canada qualifier ended in a dramatic shootout that crushed Irish dreams.
"After the (last) weekend games, I asked everyone what have you learnt from that, making sure we respect every opposition that we play. Any team on any day can play world class and beat you if you allow them to," Reid said.
Still, no expert or fan is giving Russia a chance to test the Indians, even if the conditions in Bhubaneswar are a lot cooler than the June heat that baked teams during the FIH Series Finals.
But Reid didn't buy that.
"They have been in and around the semifinals of indoor (hockey), so they can play. When they have the ball, it is very difficult to get it from them. They have a very good corner battery. We have to try and make sure that we minimize any opportunities that they get," Reid cautioned.
"We are expecting a very different team (Russia) and we will be as prepared as we can be."

        WOMEN PLAN AMERICAN HEIST
      
The actual battle, as many believe, is the women's qualifier that will be played simultaneously here. No. 9 India take on 13th-ranked USA, with the win-loss record ridiculously loaded in favour of USA at 29-4.
An interesting relation on the bench of the two teams is the coaching department - the US coach Janneke Schopman once took lessons as a player from India's coach Sjoerd Marijne.
"I think he's very knowledgeable, he knows what he's doing and he knows why he's doing it. He has a lot more experience than I do," said Schopman.
Marijne has been credited for taking the graph of India's women hockey up over the last few years, even though he was asked to coach the men's team for a while before being put back in charge of the women's team.
"He wants to make full use of our improved fitness levels," said skipper Rani Rampal.
Be it missing the bus for Beijing in 2008, qualifying for Rio 2016, ending a 36-year wait, finishing a disappointing 12th in Rio or looking good to put USA to the test now for a ticket to Tokyo, Rani has been central to India's Olympic dreams, always being there inevitably.
She remembers 2008 when the US women beat India 4-0. In Rio, the Americans won 3-0. At the last meeting of the two teams in the World Cup 2018, it was a 1-1 draw.
That timeline is a reflection of improvement that Indian hockey has shown, be it under former coach Harendra Singh or Marijne now, who has the like-minded support of Eric Wonkink and physio Wayne Lombard. Together, the trio has worked relentlessly to make the Indian players fit first, and then fast, before getting their tactical acumen to a level that has made the team world No. 9 and earn the respect of their opponents.
"To be honest, it (4-29 win-loss record) does not play on our minds," said vice-captain and goalkeeper Savita. "Yes, if you go back two years, then it may have mattered. But in the last two years, we have improved a lot.
"From the recent match (against USA) in the World Cup, we only remember that. It was a draw (1-1), and that too because of our own mistake. In our discussions and meetings, we only go as far as the last match against our opponents, because if you talk about 29 matches, that's overall, but women hockey has improved a lot (of late)," Savita asserted.
Over the last couple of years, players like drag-flicker Gurjit Kaur have not only become more expressive but also a lot more assertive, as she has shown a number of times by scoring during crunch moments to help the team win or draw.
Then there is the experience of skipper Rani herself, Savita, Deep Grace Ekka and Vandana Katariya, all of whom have over 200 international caps. In all, India have eight players with 150 or more international appearances, while USA have just one -- skipper Kathleen Sharkley.
"If you have 4-5 (players) with over 200 caps, that experience makes a difference, especially in handling pressure in tournaments like these (Olympic qualifiers)," Savita added.
The cheers from approximately 15,000 home fans at the Kalinga Stadium will present its own set of challenges, both for India and USA. None of the players on either side have the experience of playing in front of such a big crowd.
"Bilkul (absolutely)," said Savita. "But if your objectives are in place and you know what you have to do, then you don't think about crowd pressure."
It was Rani, though, who managed to put motivation and objective in one sentence, just in case youngsters like Lalremsiami or Salima Tete had butterflies in their stomachs.
"It will be the first time that we will qualify for the Olympics in our country."
FORMAT OF OLYMPIC QUALIFIERS: At the end of two matches each in both the men's and women's qualifier, the winner (on aggregate) will qualify for the Olympics. In case of a tie on points and goal difference, penalty shootout will decide the winner.
