
# Farm output up 2.87% In Q3

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:31:55+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/07/farm-output-up-2-87-in-q3/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
Despite the outbreak of African swine fever (ASF) and low farm-gate prices, the agriculture sector’s output recovered in the third quarter as it rose by an annualized rate of 2.87 percent, according to the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA).
Farm production in the July-to-September period last year contracted by 0.87 percent. The PSA traced the turnaround in the performance of the farm sector during the period to the production increases posted by all subsectors—crops, livestock, poultry and fisheries.
The output increase recorded in third quarter surpassed the Department of Agriculture’s (DA) target of 2 percent to 2.5 percent.
“This is a much better performance. We will continue to enhance the proper and sustained implementation of programs and projects of the DA to further elevate the growth of the agriculture sector,” Agriculture Secretary William D. Dar said in a statement on Wednesday.
The recovery in the third quarter pulled up production figures in the January-to-September period as output posted an increase of 0.77 percent year-on-year.
Economist Pablito M. Villegas said favorable weather played a big factor in the performance of the farm sector. The country, he noted, was not hit by devastating typhoons in the third quarter, a period when the Philippines is usually visited by typhoons.
Crop production, which accounted for 45.19 percent of total agricultural output in the third quarter, rose by 2.01 percent year-on-year despite the dismal performance of the rice industry.
Unhusked rice production fell 4.53 percent due to the substantial reduction in harvested area and insufficient water supply.
“This was attributed to the substantial reduction in harvested areas in Western Visayas and Soccsksargen due to insufficient water supply,” the PSA said in its latest report.
“The same reason was cited for decreases in harvested areas in Calabarzon, Mimaropa Region, Central Visayas, Eastern Visayas, Zamboanga Peninsula and Caraga,” it added.
In contrast, the PSA report noted that the corn industry recovered from its lackluster performance last year as output jumped by an annualized rate of 23.47 percent. Corn production rose to 2.723 million metric tons from the 2.205 MMT recorded last year.
The PSA attributed the increase in corn output to the expansion in harvest areas in some provinces and higher yield in key-producing regions.
PSA figures also showed that livestock output went up by 1.63 percent due to higher hog production, which expanded by 1.96 percent to 551,620 metric tons from last year’s 541,030 MT.
“There were reports of increases in slaughtering activities and early disposals of stocks in Cagayan Valley, Mimaropa region and Zamboanga Peninsula due to the fear of being affected by African swine fever [ASF],” the report read.
“Higher average liveweight of hogs disposed of in Calabarzon, Western Visayas and Central Visayas was also cited. In addition, there was higher demand for pork in Northern Mindanao, Soccsksargen and Caraga during the reference quarter,” it added.
ASF also spurred the production of chicken meat and eggs. Output of the poultry subsector, which accounted for 19.44 percent of total farm production, expanded by 8.41 percent year-on- year.
Chicken production grew 8.48 percent to 465,150 MT due to higher demand for broiler chicken in Central Luzon and Calabarzon as poultry served as substitute for pork due to the ASF scare.
The PSA said the production of chicken eggs expanded by 8.84 percent to 145,540 MT from 133,720 MT due to better egg laying efficiency in commercial layer farms. In a notification to the World Organisation for Animal Health, Manila said the outbreak of ASF in Luzon started in July.
Villegas warned, meanwhile, that that the decline in the farm-gate prices of unhusked rice and copra could discourage farmers from planting.
He said the government should be more aggressive in addressing the drop in palay prices, which he said is no longer a “food security” issue but a “national security concern.” 
“If prevailing farm-gate prices continue to decline, farmers may move out of their farms and may opt to plant other profitable crops or sell their lands,” Villegas said.
“The price signals are not positive enough so that farmers will invest and put money in their lands. This is coupled by the serious erosion of labor which makes cost of labor more expensive for the farmers,” he told the BusinessMirror.
“The rice farmers in marginal areas would just be growing rice for their own use but naturally, they would shift to other crops that are more profitable than rice,” Villegas added. The average farm-gate price of palay in the third quarter declined by 26.49 percent to P16.11 per kilogram from last year’s P21.92 per kg.
Villegas also said the government should immediately address the plight of coconut farmers who have been suffering for two years due to low copra prices.
