
# Belfast man who tried to rob woman (21) close to skate park is jailed

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/07/news/belfast-man-who-tried-to-rob-woman-21-close-to-skate-park-is-jailed-1758675/)

A Belfast man who tried to rob a 21-year old woman close to the city's skate park has been jailed for 18 months.
As well as bringing the victim to the ground and trying to steal her car keys, Seamus Shortt attacked two people who came to her aid.
From Bruslee Way, the 34-year old admitted attempted robbery and two counts of assault earlier this year.
Shortt - who has 163 previous convictions - was told he will spend 18 months in custody, followed by the same period on supervised licence.
Judge Philip Gilpin was told the incident occurred around 11pm, when the 21-year old parked her car beside the skate park at Corporation Street.
A male friend noticed two men, one of whom was Shortt, walking across the car park.
Shortt then approached the woman from behind, grabbed her by the neck and brought her to the ground.
Demanding that she hand over her car keys, he then lay on top of her and pinned her to the ground. He also rummaged through her coat pocket in a bid to get the keys.
Prosecuting barrister James Johnston said the young woman "curled up in a ball on the ground to protect herself."
Shortt then struck her on the side of the mouth and banged her head off the ground, and at this point a male friend intervened in a bid to stop the attack.
After being pulled off the woman, Shortt punched the friend. When a second male tried to help, he was also assaulted.
Shortt initially denied any physical altercation but later changed his pleas to 'guilty'.
Defence barrister Barry Gibson described the incident as a "street mugging" which his client regrets.
He said Shortt told a probation officer he got involved at the behest of a friend, who spiked his drink with drugs/
Noting his "extensive criminal record", which he said was "linked to drink and drug misuse", Mr Gibson said his client was working in the recycling centre in prison and has passed drugs tests.
Passing sentence, Judge Gilpin told Shortt: "The injured party was a young woman who was attacked at night. You did more than simply threaten her with physical violence, as you inflicted violence not only on her but her friends."
