
# Gloucester Man Who Failed Driving Theory 27 Times Pays Impersonator £500 To Take Test

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:36:13+00:00**

Author: **Emily Brown**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/life/gloucester-man-who-failed-driving-theory-27-times-pays-impersonator-500-to-take-test/)


        A Gloucester man went to extreme lengths after failing his driving theory test 27 times, paying an impersonator £500 to take it for him. 
      
Advertisements
Failing a test is always disheartening but I can only imagine the frustration of failing a test 27 times. After all that disappointment, I can almost understand 31-year-old Sujon Miah’s reasons for hiring an impersonator.
I say ‘almost’ because in reality it’s a very dangerous thing to do. If you can’t pass the driving theory test yourself then you’re obviously lacking some knowledge, and you really shouldn’t be let loose on the road.
Advertisements
Miah was obviously desperate when he shelled out hundreds of pounds to his accomplice, who sat the test in November 2018. He would have gotten away with it, too, if it weren’t for those meddling… staff at the theory test centre.
The employees became suspicious when they realised Miah’s licence picture did not match the person who was taking the test, so they challenged the impersonator and put a stop to Miah’s plot.
Investigators took Miah to court, and during an interview the 31-year-old admitted he had paid £500 for someone else to take the test.
It also emerged that despite getting foiled the first time, he had carried out his plot once again earlier this year.
Advertisements
The second impersonator managed to go unnoticed and had passed the test, meaning Miah finally had the theory part of his licence sorted. However, the pass was later revoked when the truth surrounding his test came out.
Miah pleaded guilty to two counts of making or supplying articles for use in fraud for a driving theory test by supplying his provisional driving licence to an impersonator to carry out a test in his behalf.
Andy Rice, the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA) head of counter fraud and investigation, said 1,065 cases of driving theory test fraud had been referred for investigation since April 2019, Gloucestershire Live reports. So far, 136 of the cases have been referred for prosecution.
Advertisements
