
# Ronan Farrow: Bill Clinton was 'credibly accused of rape' and accusation was 'overdue for revisiting'

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:05:41+00:00**

Author: **Ellie Bufkin**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/ronan-farrow-says-bill-clinton-was-credibly-accused-of-rape-and-accusation-was-overdue-for-revisiting)

Journalist Ronan Farrow said former President Bill Clinton had been "credibly accused of rape" by Juanita Broaddrick and that her accusations were "overdue for revisiting."
Farrow also asserted that Clinton deserved to be further investigated for other accusations of sexual malfeasance, during a Friday appearance on Real Time with Bill Maher.
"I think that it is very important to interject that Bill Clinton is a different conversation," Farrow said after a brief discussion about disgraced former California Rep. Katie Hill. "He has been credibly accused of rape. That has nothing to do with gray areas. I think that the Juanita Broaddrick claim has been overdue for revisiting." Hill resigned from Congress earlier this week after admitting to an inappropriate relationship with a female employee.
Broaddrick accused Clinton in 1999 of raping her during a 1978 visit to the nursing home where she worked, when Clinton was Arkansas attorney general. Clinton was impeached by the House of Representatives in 1998 for perjury and obstruction of justice after lying under oath that he did not have a sexual affair with his 23-year-old intern Monica Lewinsky.
Clinton was also accused of sexual misdeeds and illicit affairs by several other women, including Paula Jones and Gennifer Flowers. All of these accusers have continued to speak out against the former president in the wake of the #MeToo movement, which came to prominence in 2017. Broaddrick filed a civil suit against Clinton in 1999 but her case was dismissed in 2001.
Farrow rose to prominence in the last two years for exposing multiple allegations of rape, assault, and sexual harassment against movie mogul Harvey Weinstein. His newest book, Catch & Kill, details several allegations of sexual misconduct levied against former NBC host Matt Lauer and the network's efforts to keep them quiet.
