
# Police appeal for information after woman killed in horror Cambuslang road accident

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:52:12+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Geddes, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jonathan-geddes/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/police-appeal-information-after-woman-20807514)

Police are appealing for information following a fatal road traffic crash in Cambuslang on Sunday night that left a woman dead and a man in critical condition in hospital.
The incident occurred on the Cathkin bypass around 8.15 pm, when a 68-year-old man driving a blue coloured Ford Focus car southbound on the A749, East Kilbride Road, Cambuslang collided with a blue coloured Volkswagen Golf car that was travelling eastbound on the Cathkin Bypass towards the roundabout junction with the A749.
Emergency services attended the scene and the 68-year-old driver and his 62-year-old female passenger were taken to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital by ambulance, however the woman was pronounced dead on arrival.
The driver is currently being treated for serious injuries. Hospital staff describe his condition as critical.
The 38-year-old driver of the Volkswagen Golf car was taken to Hairmyres Hospital in East Kilbride where he was treated for minor injuries before being released.
Sgt Simon Reilly at the Road Policing Unit in Motherwell is appealing for witnesses to the crash.
He would also like to speak to anyone who has dashcam footage of the incident.
Anyone with information should contact police at Motherwell Road Policing Unit via 101 quoting incident number 3748 of Sunday 3 November 201
