
# Hot Properties

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Keith Flamer**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/keithflamer/2019/10/31/hot-properties/)

Here are a few hot luxury real estate properties making noise in New York City metropolitan area.235 Grand (Jersey City)
Jersey City’s 235 Grand is a 46-story modern glass luxury tower by HLW that’s part of the city’s changing architectural skyline. Designed by HLW and developed by Ironstate Development Company and KRE Group, the rental building features 549 contemporary residences and amenity spaces designed by Bentel & Bentel.
The building offers dramatic views, marbleized baths, and sleek kitchens with quartz countertops, mosaic backsplashes and stainless steel appliances.
Residences range from studios (from $2,800s), 1 bedrooms (from $3,100s) and two bedrooms (from around $5,000), offering vistas of Manhattan, New York harbor and the Statue of Liberty.
The building includes 1,705 square feet of street-level retail space and will see future public green spaces added around the surrounding neighborhood. The tower is 75% leased, with half of those renters hailing from New York’s five boroughs.
Amenities include an attended lobby, gym, resident lounge, co-working spaces, and a landscaped rooftop terrace with swimming pool, movie screen, fire pit, barbecues, and showers. There’s also a kid’s playground, dog run, and bike storage. The property rests on the former site of the Boys & Girls Clubs of Hudson County. The developers built a new Boys & Girls Club spanning 34,000 square feet.

        The Alyn (Manhattan)
      
The Alyn, an Upper East Side’s luxury rental ranging from $10,000 to $35,000 offers a sneak peak at its recently built amenities, which include an outdoor terrace, kid’s playroom and a fitness center by celebrity trainers Homage. It was developed by Gordon Property Group.
Located at 152 East 87th Street, the fitness center rivals boutique city gyms with high-grade equipment and services like Peloton bikes, TRX bands, sprinting turf wellness and treatment rooms, and outdoor yoga areas.
The indoor-outdoor aquatic-themed kids space (crafted by children’s architecture firm Silver Hill Atelier) spans 2,400 square feet with 20-foot planetary ceiling inside soaring over two ships, jungle palm trees, castles, slides, sprinklers, and play boats.
The outdoor terrace includes a giant blue whale slide and water area. There’s also a double-height private resident lounge with fireplace and a 700-square-foot outdoor dining terrace. and a parking garage.
Designed by architect Ismael Leyva, The Alyn is a 21-story glass building with 56 rental residences (one to five bedroom) with floor-to-ceiling windows and city views. It’s currently over 80% leased.
