
# 'The Mexican bolognese’: Thomasina Miers’ recipe for venison picadillo

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:00:28+00:00**

Author: **Thomasina Miers**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/food/2019/nov/04/venison-picadillo-the-mexican-bolognese-thomasina-miers-recipe)


        A Mexican ragu-style sauce full of gentle spicing and comforting warmth
      
Picadillo is to Mexico what bolognese is to Italy: a homely mince dish.
Here, I have used venison, an underused meat that is low in fat and rich in protein and essential minerals. The picadillo is seasoned with the soft flavours of allspice, cinnamon and clove, and uses the sweetness of fruit for balance (the finished ragù is often used to stuff dried chillies).
This makes it the perfect vehicle for using up bananas and apples, two of the most wasted fruits, plus any tomatoes that have seen better days.
This recipe is all about balancing the spices, gentle chilli heat and the nutty crunch of almonds. It’s delicious served with creamy polenta.
Prep 15 minCook 45 minServes 4-6
600g venison minceSalt and black pepper4 tbsp olive oil1 large onion, peeled and finely chopped1 apple1 banana2 garlic cloves, peeled and finely chopped2 chipotle chillies, deseeded, simmered in water for 15-20 minutes and finely chopped½ tsp ground cinnamon1 tsp ground allspice¼ tsp ground cloves70g raisins2 x 400g tins plum tomatoes (or cut out the softening parts of tomatoes you might otherwise throw away)2 tbsp red-wine vinegar30g dark chocolate, roughly chopped1 glass red wine½ tsp brown sugar (optional)60g blanched almonds, toasted and roughly chopped
Take the venison out of the fridge ahead of time and season generously. Warm half the olive oil in a large casserole pan and gently fry the onion for 10 minutes, seasoning generously.
Meanwhile, peel the apple and banana, cut out any bruises or black bits, and dice. Add to the onion, along with the garlic, chipotle, ground spices and raisins. Saute for five minutes, stirring, then add the rest of the oil and stir in the meat. Turn up the heat and fry, breaking up the mince with a spoon, until the meat is browned all over and smelling delicious.
Add the tomatoes, vinegar, half a glass of water, the chocolate and wine, and simmer gently for 20-25 minutes, adding a touch more water if the mixture starts to look too dry. Taste for seasoning and add half a teaspoon of brown sugar, if the sauce needs a little sweetness.
Sprinkle over the almonds and serve with fast-cook polenta and some grated pecorino (to mimic Mexico’s queso anejo).
If you are using polenta, pour any leftovers into a greased tin and put in the fridge to set. Cover with finely grated mature, hard cheese, such as Lincolnshire poacher or parmesan, and grill until golden; serve with a mushroom or black pudding ragù and greens. Picadillo is also delicious in a jacket potato or stuffed into a rehydrated ancho chilli.
