
# How Your Cat Sleeping In Your Bed Affects Your Health

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:00:25+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/how-your-cat-sleeping-in-your-bed-affects-your-health-19275804)

If you own a cat (or several), then you probably know what happens when you shut any given door at home: they most likely sit outside of it and meow until it opens. This might be why you let your cat sleep in your bed with you, or you just might enjoy the sensation of dozing off to sleep while your furry family member purrs nearby. Either way, anyone who owns a cat has probably questioned at some point whether letting a cat sleep in your bed can hurt your health or not.
It's a reasonable concern. From animal dandruff, to litter box hygienics, to sleep disruption, your cat could bring a whole host of non-human worries into your bedroom. And the simple truth is that there's no one-size-fits-all answer: it totally depends on your pet's personality and general behavior, according to Dr. Sara Ochoa, DVM, a practicing veterinarian and veterinary consultant for DogLab, a site that reviews products for dogs.
"Most cats are very clean animals and are all the time grooming themselves and sometimes even the owners," she explains. For that reason, you shouldn't be very concerned about dandruff or litter box issues. If you do find litter box remnants in your bed, Dr. Ochoa says, then it might just be a matter of finding another type of litter that's easier for your cat to groom off of their paws.
