
# Strictly's Bruno saves Mike because he 'covered' for stumbling Katya Jones in dance-off

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:00:53+00:00**

Author: **Rose Hill, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rose-hill/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/strictlys-bruno-saves-mike-because-20803202)

Bruno Tonioli chose to save Mike Bushell this evening after the BBC presenter "covered" for his professional partner Katya Jones.
Mike and Katya were up against Emma Weymouth and Aljaz Skorjanec in the dance-off and, despite making a blunder in the middle of their dance, were saved by all judges.
Judge Bruno described Mike's action of "covering" for Katya's mistake "extraordinary" while also branding it "more entertaining".
He said: "Purely based on tonight’s performance, more entertaining, richer, more powerful and something extraordinary happened, the celebrity actually covered for the professionals mistake; Mike and Katya."
 
Mike and Katya performed their Charleston to Those Magnificent Men In Their Flying Machines by Ron Goodwin Orchestra, which was praised by Craig and Motsi for being "more entertaining" and "more challenging".
After discovering that she would be leaving the competition, Emma said that she was "heartbroken" and apologised to Aljaz for letting him down.
She said: "I’ve loved this more than anything I’ve done in my entire life. I’m going to be forever grateful to you for working so hard, you’ve been so patient with me and teaching me everything.
"Thank you, I want to be friends forever because you’re just amazing. I never wanted to let you down, I’m just heartbroken."
This is the third dance-off that Mike has survived so far in the competition.
Last week, Mike and Katya were saved over Catherine and Johannes, sparking outrage from viewers.
As ever, fans branded the show a "fix" , with some threatening to boycott the show.
Love Strictly? Keep on top of all the news on and off the dancefloor with our regular email updates.
Sign up using this form to receive our newsletter direct to your inbox, with the big breaking news and regular round-ups.
 
Mike also revealed that he had received "death threats" as a result of being saved by the judges.
Speaking at the Daily Mirror's Pride of Britain Awards, Mike, said: "It said that unless I withdraw from the competition now I'm a dead man.
"It was personal and I thought WTF. There are bigger things in the world to worry about.
"I get that people have their own favourite dancers but it's an entertainment show at the end of the day and to get a death threat is ridiculous."

        *Strictly Come Dancing returns next Saturday on BBC One
      
