
# ASUS ROG Phone II update adds new AirTrigger gestures to simulate sliding on screen

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:08:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/asus-rog-phone-ii-update-adds-airtrigger-gestures-simulate-sliding-screen/)

Asus first launched the ROG Phone II in China back in July and the phone finally made its way to the US and Indian markets in September. The device offers top-of-the-line specifications at a competitive price, however, it’s not just the flagship hardware that makes it an awesome device. Asus has also improved its software offering, adding a ton of useful features while dialing back on the gamery aesthetic. With a recent update, the company added even more useful features, like key mapping and squeeze shortcuts, into the mix. And now, the smartphone is getting new AirTrigger gestures.
If you’re familiar with the ROG Phone II, you’d already know that the device features something called AirTriggers on the right edge. These triggers aren’t exactly buttons, but ultrasonic pressure-sensitive regions in the device’s frame and they can be mapped to emulate a tap on the screen.
The latest update for the ROG Phone II adds a new functionality which will essentially allow you to map a horizontal slide on the screen to one of the AirTriggers. This new feature could come in handy in a variety of games that require you to swipe horizontally on the screen to perform a specific function. For example, in Asphalt 9 Legends the horizontal slide to change lanes can now be mapped to the AirTriggers.
Along with the new AirTrigger gestures the update (build number WW1910.35) brings a couple of additional changes and improvements. Here’s the full changelog for the latest build:
While it isn’t mentioned in the changelog, the update also includes the Android security patch for October 2019.

        Thanks to XDA Senior Member reg66 for the screenshots!
      
