
# Falkirk FC linked US mogul has property empire registered next to chip shop in Sidcup

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Norman Silvester, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/norman-silvester/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/falkirk-linked-mogul-found-property-20796470)

The business empire of a US-based property mogul who failed in his effort to take control of Falkirk FC is registered to an accountant’s office in the tiny Kent town of Sidcup.
Mark Campbell’s Markell Real Estate Group occupies one of the world’s glitziest addresses in Manhattan’s Madison Avenue.
He has also claimed to have lived near New York’s famous Central Park for four years.
But we can reveal his firms – Markell Real Estate Group, Markell Group, and Markell Land and Property Developments – are all registered at a small firm of financial experts below a block of flats in the English commuter town.
MKS Accountants’ neighbours include a barber’s, fish and chip shop, Costa Coffee and a Co-Op.
The list is a far cry from the glamorous designer boutiques and landmarks surrounding Campbell’s base in the Big Apple.
It was announced on Friday that negotiations between Falkirk and Campbell had ended.
They had been locked in talks since August.
Campbell had been the preferred bidder by Falkirk’s current owners in July and said he was in pole position to take over the running of the Scottish League One club.
He promised to invest up to £10million to develop the stadium and pay the £350,000 needed to take a controlling 62 per cent share in the club.
Fans’ group Back The Bairns had concerns over his business past. But he vowed to live in Scotland if he got ownership. He was made bankrupt in 2010 after running a pub. At the time he was described as unemployed and living in Bexley, Kent.
Campbell failed in a bid to buy Sunderland AFC earlier this year.
Last month we revealed he has been ordered to appear in a New York court over claims he sexually harassed a female employee.
The woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, alleged he made repeated unwanted advances towards her when he was her boss at Markell Real Estate Group.
The summons for him to appear was served at his firm’s offices in Manhattan last month.
She alleges when she rejected his sexual advances, he accused her of stealing and sacked her.
She also claims he asked to buy lingerie for her and made inappropriate remarks about her appearance.
Campbell has denied the claims against him.
After talks collapsed, Falkirk FC said: “Unfortunately, we have not been able to reach agreement on all matters. We will continue to seek investment.”
When contacted Campbell said: “The building we use in Madison Avenue is not in a pristine area. We’re not in the best part. There are in excess of 500 companies in the building and we pay a monthly rent.
“I have an apartment near Central Park but I am not ­resident in the USA.
“I know Sidcup very well. I was raised there. The firm of accountants we use moved there from London about four years ago and is very respected.”
He claimed his 2010 ­bankruptcy was related to the break-up of his marriage.
He said he’d not been ­personally served with court papers in the ­harassment action.
He added: “That’s now being contested.”
