
# Political parties urged to support UK music industry after General Election

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:49:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/magazine/entertainment/2019/11/07/news/political-parties-urged-to-support-uk-music-industry-after-general-election-1759876/)

Campaigners have cited Ed Sheeran and Lewis Capaldi in a plea for all political parties to protect the UK’s lucrative music industry
Party leaders contesting the upcoming General Election have been asked to guarantee the future of UK talent whatever the outcome of the vote.
Global stars and staggering revenues have been cited by industry lobbying group UK Music’s chief executive Michael Dugher.
He asked Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, and Liberal Democrat leader Jo Swinson to support the lucrative industry.
In the letter he invoked Sam Fender, Sheeran and Capaldi as examples of the UK’s musical success, which requires copyright protection, infrastructure, and education to continue.
He wrote: “Year after year, decade after decade, this country produces incredibly creative musical talent that consistently takes the world by storm.
“People around the world still look in awe at British musicians
“Year after year, decade after decade, this country produces incredibly creative musical talent that consistently takes the world by storm.
“People around the world still look in awe at British musicians.”
Mr Dugher added: “The UK music industry supports well over hundreds of thousands of jobs and contributes a massive amount to both the British economy and our cultural life.
“This General Election could be game-changing for all sorts of reasons and I’m determined to make sure that the voice of our vibrant and diverse music industry is heard loud and clear, whoever ends up in Downing Street.”
UK Music has outlined a number of areas of concern for which is has sought support and assurance from political leaders.
