
# Simone Inzaghi on the factor Celtic fans will play as Lazio boss takes Q&A

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:11:36+00:00**

Author: **Chris Doyle, Gabriel McKay, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/chris-doyle/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/simone-inzaghi-factor-celtic-fans-20825209)

Lazio boss Simone Inzaghi has refused to acknowledge the factor that visiting Celtic fans could play in Thursday night's clash.
The travelling support are set to dwarf the Biancocelesti fans inside the Stadio Olimpico with the Parkhead faithful snapping up around 9,000 of the 14,000 tickets that have been sold for the Europa League showdown.
Lazio know that three points is a must after their disappointing defeat to Celtic a fortnight ago.
But the Italian boss refused to be drawn on how pivotal a role the influx of away fans could play on the outcome of the match.
Inzaghi was speaking and his side's press conference in Rome as he answered questions ahead of the Euro showdown against Neil Lennon's side.

        Q. There will be a lot of Celtic fans tomorrow, could that be a decisive factor?
      
A: I hope it’s a beautiful day of sport, that the best team wins, and I hope that’s Lazio. There will be a lot of Celtic fans, the Curva Nord will be closed, but there will also be a lot of Lazio fans. We hope to win.

        Q. Is there only one result tomorrow?
      
B: Yes, we absolutely have to win. That’s the result we have in our heads, we absolutely have to change the standings. It won’t be easy, Celtic are a top team, physical with quality players.

        Q. Who is suspended?
      
A: I’m still not sure. We’re coming off three matches in quick succession with a few problems. Those who definitely won’t be there (because of injuries) are Radu, Marusic and Cataldi, who is suspended.
Correa, Caicedo and Leiva will have to be evaluated. Caicedo took a hit to his shoulder, at first we feared a fracture but it’s severe bruising. Correa took a knock in training and Leiva is fatigued. Immobile and Lulic are also a bit fatigued but I’m hopeful for them.
The other three will have to be monitored, we’ve expended a lot physically and mentally. We’ve got the results though and tomorrow I’ll put out the best possible team to play a good match.

        Q. What would you like to see again from the game in Scotland and what errors need to be cut out?
      
A: I’d like to see the same, but with a different result. It was a great game but at these levels you can’t afford to make certain mistakes. Celtic are used to a certain kind of European game.

        Q. Will Luis Alberto play behind the strikers? Do you need an extra striker in the summer?
      
A: I need to carefully evaluate Caicedo and Correa, we’ll do everything to have them available. At the same time I have Adekanye and I can push Milinkovic-Savic or Luis Alberto further forward.
 
It’s the same for Immobile, he’s coming off three complete games and I let him rest for 30 minutes in Milan. He also had some issues at the end of the first half.
I am confident about Caicedo and Correa, I’ll need to ask everyone for a sacrifice because this is a very important match for us.

        Q. What were the decisive factors in the first game?
      
A: It was a game played at a very good level, it was fast and physical. The little moments were decisive, if Correa’s shot which hit the post had gone in then it might have been another result. We need to turn those moments in our favour.
