
# Why Betting Against Warren Buffett Now Might Be A Mistake

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **John P. Reese**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/investor/2019/11/05/why-betting-against-warren-buffett-now-might-be-a-mistake/)

It's difficult for investors to accept that sometimes they have to lose the battle to win over the long-term.Short-term underperformance should be expected once in a while, even by the top-rated managers, according to the prevailing research.
Indeed, in 2016, Newfound Research found that the probability in a five-year time that a manager will have a year of 10% underperformance was something like 60%.
Even Warren Buffett's widely regarded Berkshire Hathaway (BRK-A) has had bouts of underperformance. The conglomerate is up 7% this year while its biggest holding, Apple, is up 63% at a new 52-week high and the S&P 500 is up nearly 23% at record levels.
Part of the problem may be Berkshire's record-sized $128 billion pile of uninvested cash, which acts as a drag during a bull market. Buffett has been looking for opportunities to invest that cash with scant results. He's been buying back Berkshire's own shares, instead.
Still, Berkshire profit rose more than expected in the third quarter, according to its earnings released over the weekend.
Three years ago, Newfound Research examined the patterns of Berkshire's performance going back to 1985 and found ten separate periods when it lagged the market by more than 10% for at least a year. In some cases the underperformance lasted even longer.
But an analysis of historical data from Yahoo Finance shows Berkshire shares roared back each time.
For example, from October 1985 to September 1987, Berkshire underperformed the Vanguard S&P 500 Index Fund by 18.1%, according to Newfound Research.
From November 1985 to September 1987, Berkshire A shares shot up 51%.
From June 1998 to February 2000, Berkshire lagged the market by 54.4%. But then from March 2000 to September 2002, the shares jumped nearly 64%
From September 2002 to September 2005, Berkshire A shares lagged the market by 29.9%. From September 2005 to October 2008, Berkshire shares rose another 65%.
All of this happened during a period in which, overall, Berkshire beat the market by a handy margin. From March 1980 to October 2016, Berkshire's A shares returned 20.2%, which is 9.7% more than the Vanguard fund, Newfound Research said.
Since October 2016 until November 1, 2019, Berkshire shares are up 50%. The Vanguard S&P 500 fund is up 42% in the same time frame, according to Yahoo data.
But impatient investors who cut and run after a short period would have missed out on the rallies. After all, based on the data, it's clear that investors who stuck with Berkshire would have benefited over the longer run.
Trouble is, investors succumb to the human instinct to cut and run all too often. And this is a costly game. Even the most highly rated investment managers spend a third of their time over a decade in the basement of performance, according to research by Joel Greenblatt, a hedge fund manager and author of The Little Book That Still Beats the Market. These same managers tend to outperform over the longer-run, like Buffett.
This should be an important lesson for investors, no matter what the market conditions are at any given moment. Often, successful investing is a matter of sticking to a specific plan even if it doesn't appear to be working out in the near-term.
The historical pattern shows that even the top managers aren't perfect all of the time – something that has been more obvious in the last few years as soaring markets have left active managers scrambling to keep up. Buffett's own advice over the years is to use downturns to buy what others are selling.
Berkshire began buying Apple (AAPL) shares in 2016, building it into its biggest public stake. Overall, this investment portfolio is $200 billion. And Berkshire is also made up of more than 60 subsidiaries ranging from insurance to railroads.
As of the end of the second quarter this year, Buffett continued to be bullish on bank stocks, including Bank of America (BAC), Wells Fargo (SFC) and American Express (AXP) – a direct play on the American economy. But Berkshire also added a stake in Amazon (AMZN), the e-commerce giant. And Berkshire is doing something it hasn't done in the past; it bought back $400 million of its own B shares in the quarter, in addition to the $1.7 billion of shares it bought back in the first quarter.
No investor is immune to underperformance. It is, in fact, part of the process. For those who want to beat the market over the long-run and are willing to tolerate some unevenness in results over time, the best course is to stay committed.
Short-term bouts of underperformance, rather than being a sign it's time to take flight, should signal to investors that the manager has a process and is sticking with it. Investors who accept this are less prone to panic when markets go off the rails.

        At the time of publication, John Reese and his clients were long Berkshire Hathaway.
      
