
# Five Big Name Players To Watch In The Soweto Derby

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:39:00+00:00**

Author: **Mazola Molefe**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/soweto-derby-players-to-watch/666486)

Two teams with contrasting form and a fierce rivalry over the years face off for a place in the last four of the Telkom Knockout tomorrow, and they usually say form counts for naught when Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates clash.

        Read: Desperate Plea To PSL 
      
But there are several players who have been making their sides tick – even the struggling Buccaneers have one or two match winners in their ranks.
The Siya crew looks at five players to watch in the Soweto Derby at Durban’s Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday afternoon.

        Samir Nurkovic
      
Perhaps the most talked about player ahead of this clash, the Serbian has surely proved by now that on his day he can unlock any defence. Nurkovic has scored four goals in eight matches and also managed an assist. Opposition coaches can’t help but pick him out as the dangerman for Chiefs.

        Tshegofatso Mabasa
      
Pity that Pirates are struggling, but he is the biggest beneficiary of the unexpected coaching change and the slump in form. With Justin Shonga and Augustine Mulenga less relied on this season, the former Bloemfontein Celtic goal ace has stepped up and now has five goals in nine matches. Forget the offside goal on Tuesday night, Mabasa is the real deal. 

        Linda Mntambo
      
‘Figo’ was rumoured to be on his way out of the club before the start of the season, but somehow stuck around. He didn’t make the Pirates squad for their first 10 matches of the season in all competitions, but has now started – and finished – their previous three and picked up the MOM award on Tuesday.

        Khama Billiat
      
Will he rise to the big occasion? Pirates will have to watch him closely – he is arguably the most talented at Chiefs. Alongside Nurkovic and possibly Leonardo Castro, the Zimbabwean assassin can be deadly. Following a slow start to the season amid a strong link to a return back to Mamelodi Sundowns, it now seems as though Billiat has bought into coach Ernst Middendorp’s way of playing and ready to put in a shift. 

        Thembinkosi Lorch
      
He was left out of Tuesday’s win over Highlands Park because he is one yellow card away from suspension. So, he is fresh – and what could be bigger than the Soweto Derby to remind all why he was voted Footballer of the Season in May?

        Read: Rulani: There's No Game Pirates Haven't Dominated  
      
