
# 12 memorable quotes from Benni at CT City

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:57:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/12-memorable-quotes-from-benni-at-ct-city-20191104)

Cape Town - In an early Monday morning shocker, Absa Premiership side Cape Town City sacked head coach Benni McCarthy.
"Cape Town City Football Club has terminated the employment of coach Benni McCarthy, with immediate effect following a run of performance that saw the club win two in the last 18 games," the statement read that was released.
Assistant coach Vasili Manousakis will keep an eye on the squad on an interim basis as the club finalises the first team's new mentor.
McCarthy arrived at City in June 2017 and claimed a runners-up MTN8 medal in 2017. The following year, the former Bafana Bafana striker guided the Citizens side to the 2018 MTN8 title against SuperSport United in the final.
The 41-year-old has never been shy in sharing his views and over the past two years at the club, he certainly has gotten a lot off his chest during his pre- and post-match interviews.
The following are 12 memorable quotes from the South African soccer legend during his time as head coach of Cape Town City:

        1. Benni slams standard of PSL referees
      

        "But I say this every week now‚ since I've started my coaching career. Every game I've not been happy with the referee with their decision-making, when you score legitimate goals and then it gets disallowed without even giving the coaches an explanation on why." - 
        read full story
      

        2. Benni apologises for foul-mouthed reaction
      
"But I’m one of those guys ... I always say a team is a reflection of its manager. I’m a passionate guy from Cape Town, and if people want to bully my players, I’m the first one to stand up for them." - read full story

        3. Benni lashes out at City of CT in scathing open letter
      

        "It is a dark day for football. 
        I’ve been away from Cape Town for 21 years and while so much has changed, nothing has changed." - 
        read full story
      

        4. Benni slams under-performing Patosi
      
"I’d knock my head against a wall if I play s***, if I know I deserved to come off after 20 minutes." - read full story  

        5. Benni: I should get liposuction and select myself
      
"I don't know if I must maybe go for liposuction to get myself to play again, maybe that would do the trick..." - read full story  

        6. Benni: Referee was Kaizer Chiefs' best player
      
"They [referees] all look nice, with their OUTsurance kit. But that was the best thing about the performance out there, the beautiful green and purple kit." - read full story  

        7. Benni McCarthy slams Zungu's "disrespectful" comments
      
"Wow didn’t expect u to have so little class my man @BonganiZungu08 disrespectful to coach Pitso for building your career so that you can succeed in Europe..." - read full story  

        8. Benni: Mothiba very Shaun Bartlett-like
      
"He's got a big move in him. I think he's very Shaun Bartlett-like in terms of his stature. He's very quick, strong, and he's just doing what he's doing and been exceptional..." - read full story  

        9. Benni wants to whip Hunt five times in a row
      
"I've given him four...four hidings so far. A fifth one, I think, is highly possible. We are going to go out there and play ..." - read full story

        10. 'My mindset is not on Bafana job', says McCarthy
      
"I just want to concentrate on me and my coaching staff‚ and us trying to get things right to get us to where we should be. Anything that happens after that... But my mindset is not on Bafana I'm afraid. Not even close." - read full story

        11. Benni compares Kaizer Chiefs to Premier League's Burnley
      
"When you do so well up until then, then you switch off – and we said, 'Kaizer Chiefs is no different than anyone else, don't get phased by the name ...'" - read full story

        12. Benni slams ref display as 'diabolical' after Chiefs defeat
      
"They say coaches when you lose you complain about the referee, but it was plain to see the referees today was diabolical ..." read full story  

        
          - Compiled by Tashreeq Vardien
        
      
