
# Beyonce's sister Solange Knowles splits from husband after five years of marriage

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:33:09+00:00**

Author: **Louise Randell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/louise-randell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/beyonces-sister-solange-splits-husband-20791995)

Beyonce 's sister Solange Knowles has split from her from husband Alan Ferguson after five years of marriage.
The singer, 33, has been with Alan for more than 11 years and they have been married since 2014.
However, the union broke down earlier this year and they separated in secret - with Solange only now confirming the split.
In a reflective post on Instagram , she explained: "I've lived my best and worst moments in front of the lens and gaze of the world since I was a teenager.
"I've always tried to live in my truth no matter how ugly or full of love it is.
"I've also tried to carve out the space to protect my heart, and my life as it unfolds, evolves, and changes.
"11 years ago I met a phenomenal man who changed every existence of my life.
"Early this year we separated and parted ways."
She went on to insist she will not reveal the reason for the split, declaring: "It ain’t nan no body business."
Solange added: "I find it necessary to protect the sacredness of my personal truth and to live in it fully just as I have before and will continue to do.
"It is unfair to not have power of your own story as you shape and mold and rewrite it yourself.
'I'm leaning into the fear of the unknown and all the glory and power I know exist within god and the universes grace.
"May all of your transitions no matter how big or small, be kind to you and filled with incredible love and light!"
Solange married Alan in New Orleans in November 2014 and their lavish wedding was attended by her superstar sister and brother-in-law Jay-Z .
She has a 15-year-old son, Daniel Julez, with her first husband, Daniel Smith. 

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at  webcelebs@trinitymirror.com  or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
