
# Chelsea must consider signing Hakim Ziyech after he leaves their defence in tatters

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:32:12+00:00**

Author: **Darren Lewis, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-lewis/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/chelsea-must-consider-signing-hakim-20820727)

When the dust settles on this remarkable contest the man in the Chelsea notebook must surely be Hakim Ziyech .
The 26-year-old who so tormented the home side here has already been recommended to the Spurs chairman Daniel Levy.
Two weeks ago Levy's former player, Rafael van Der Vaart, gave an interview to Dutch publication Voetbal Primeur revealing he is on a mission to get his countryman to White Hart Lane.
"I really hope he goes to Tottenham ,” said Van der Vaart. “I sent a message to Levy. I said: ‘Get Ziyech after this season.’ I am convinced that he becomes a sensation in London.”
Well he was right about that.
The Ajax magician has either scored or assisted in nine of his last 12 Champions League appearances - four goals and 5 assists.
This season he has scored seven times in all competitions. He didn’t add to that tally here but he did leave a talented Chelsea team in tatters with his skill, creativity and his delivery from the wide areas.
It was his sumptuous, 20th-minute heat-seeker which found the head of Quincy Promes as he ghosted inside Cesar Azpilicueta to beat Kepa Arrizabalaga.
Ziyech then left the Chelsea keeper wondering, quite literally, what had hit him to put Ajax 3-1 up.
Ten minutes before the break the Morocco international powered in a corner which cruised over every head waiting in the box, smacked the back post, rebounded into Kepa’s face and nestled in the back of the net.
Ten minutes after the break Ziyech teed up Donny van der Beek to break home hearts again, this time from close range.
Spurs fans must surely be licking their lips at the thought of Harry Kane feasting on his ammunition.
Chelsea fans must be wondering whether their club will get in on that action with the prospect of their transfer ban being lifted in January.
The years are catching up with Pedro (32) and William (31).
Ziyech, however, has just under three years remaining on his current Ajax contract. The chase for his signature will be a hot one.
