
# Mzansi's Finest Chiskop Wing-Backs!

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/gillette/gillette-3/666729)


        With our centre-backs sorted, we now take a look at our wing-backs, in this week’s Chiskop XI. We’ve gone for two hard-working Chiskops, in Thebogo Langerman and Matome Kgoetyane. Legends like Dani Alves and Ashley Cole redefined their positions on the field, and in Mzansi, these two have certainly made their mark.
      

        
          Tebogo Langerman- Always Winning
        
      
Making a total of 323 appearances, winning five Absa Premiership titles, the CAF Champions League, and one Telkom Knockout with Mamelodi Sundowns, it’s safe to say that Tebogo Langerman’s trophy cabinet has overflown.
Starting professionally at Bidvest Wits in 2008, he joined SuperSport United, after one season with 'The Clever Boys'. In 2012, after three impressive seasons with Matsatsantsa, making 68 appearances and scoring seven goals, Chloorkop came calling, and this Chiskop hasn’t looked back since.

        Chiskop Troubles - 
        Tough Relationship With Pitso Mosimane
      
For some time at Chloorkop, his relationship with head coach, Pitso Mosimane, demanded more from him. In 2016, he told a soccer magazine that he and Mosimane would often argue in training, however, he credits his mentor for making him a winner.

        
          Matome Kgoetyane- From ABC Obscurity To TKO Glory
        
      
Understated Baroka FC right back, Matome Kgoetyane, has established himself in the PSL, through hard work and persistence. Affectionately known as ‘Buns’, Matome started playing professionally in 2013 with Black Leopards in the National First Division. After making 16 appearances for Lidoda Duvha, he moved to ABC Motsepe League side, Baberwa FC in 2014. After two seasons with the Midrand-based outfit, then PSL newbies, Baroka FC, signed him.
Since his move to Bakgakga, he has been a constant fixture in the starting line-up. To date, the Chiskop right back has made 68 appearances since 2016, with one goal and three assists.

        Chiskop Magical Moment
      
Kgoetyane’s magical moment came last season. On their way to Telkom Knockout glory, Baroka FC knocked out mighty Mamelodi Sundowns. The second of their two goals came courtesy of Kgoetyane’s cross that was diverted by Reyaad Pieterse into his own net, as the Limpopo-based side progressed, to eventually win the competition, the first in the club’s 12-year history.
