
# #RedforEd Fuels Democrat Andy Beshear in Kentucky Governor Race

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:53:31+00:00**

Author: **Michael Patrick Leahy**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/05/redfored-secures-narrow-election-night-victory-for-democrat-beshear-in-kentucky-race-for-governor/)

With 100 percent of precincts reporting as of 9:55 p.m. EST, Beshear had a narrow 0.3 point lead, with 49.2 percent of the vote to Bevin’s 48.9 percent. Libertarian candidate John Hicks had two percent of the vote.
In raw votes, Bevin trailed Beshear by a little more than 4,000 votes out of more than 1.4 million cast.
NBC called the race for Beshear at 9:20 pm.
The Associated Press has refused to declare a winner late Tuesday saying the race was too close to call, and Bevin refused to concede on Tuesday night telling supporters the same.
Due to the narrowness of the margin, Bevin may decide to ask for a recount. If he does, the election results will not be certified until the recount is completed.
Ballotpedia reports, in Kentucky, a gubernatorial candidate
Regardless of the outcome, the closeness of this race–Bevin is an incumbent Republican in a state President Donald Trump won by nearly 30 percent in 2016–has been fueled by an infusion of some interesting local factors and national leftist movements.
Bevin’s handling of a series of unauthorized teachers strikes organized by the local Kentucky #RedforEd teachers group this past spring created great anger among many of the state’s teachers, and they vowed to defeat him in November, as Breitbart News reported:
Former Obama campaign adviser David Axelrod, speaking on CNN Tuesday night, highlighted Bevin’s “controversies with the teachers” as key to Bevin’s poor election results.
Antipathy towards Bevin from the #RedforEd movement and its supporters was palpable, as this election night tweet from Jeff Bryant, education reporter for the Independent Media Institute shows:
