
# Manila pilot area of ‘Disiplina Muna’ drive

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:15:08+00:00**

Author: **Itchie G. Cabayan**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/manila-pilot-area-disiplina-muna-drive)

In his message during the formal launch held in City Hall, Moreno said he is pleased that the reforms in Manila had served as inspiration and that the city had been chosen as a starting point for meaningful programs such as the said campaign which is a concept of the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) under SecretaryEduardo Ano.
Moreno said the campaign is a challenge for  the city to continue what it is doing and a validation of the appropriateness of the reformative measures being instituted in the city.
‘What you’ve seen before in Manila... ‘yung mga programa.. sa tingin ko pag natupad nang maayos ng enforcers at mga halal ng bayan, tingin ko aaliwalas ang ating bansa,’ Moreno said.
He added: ‘Isipin ano ba naiambag o partisipasyon natin as individuals.
‘Napaka-basic. Kung anuman ngayon tanging epekto ng mga bagay na nangyari kahapon. So if we’re not happy let’s do something about it today.’
Moreno said that what the city of Manila is doing is just ‘elementary’ in the field of governance.
‘Basic governance... maglinis, magpaayos, magpatupad ng simpleng batas na ipinagkikibit-balikat lang na siyang nagbigay ng tumor na napakahirap gamutin ngayon,’ he stressed.
The mayor said he will be banking on the help and cooperation from the city councilors under Vice Mayor and Council presiding officer Honey Lacuna and the 10,000 barangay officials and 20,000 barangay tanods through the intercession of Liga ng Mga Barangay head Councilor Lei Lacuna to bring down to the grassroots level the message of the said campaign.
‘Mataas ang expectations sa atin (Manila)  but if we fail which we are not worried about, I would rather that we fail while trying than not try at all,’ Moreno said.
Before that,  Moreno met with the 19th ambassador to pay him a courtesy visit, Mexican Ambassador Gerardo Lozano Arredondo.
