
# Politics professors answer key General Election questions ahead of Christmas vote

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Graeme Thomson**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/politics-professors-answer-key-general-20799320)

The Sunday Mail has assembled a high-powered panel of political experts to answer key questions ahead of the December 12 election.
We quizzed five leading politics professors about the upcoming poll that will help determine the future of Brexit and Scotland's place within the EU and the UK.
Rob Johns – Professor of politics at the University of Essex.
Paul Cairney – Professor of politics, University of Stirling
Aileen McHarg – Professor of public law and human rights, University of Durham. Scots and UK public law specialist
Anand Menon – Professor of European politics and foreign affairs at King’s College London. Director of the UK in a Changing  Europe think tank
Nicola McEwen – Co-director, Centre on Constitutional Change. Professor of territorial politics, University of Edinburgh   
Rob Johns: At the moment, the polls say so – and there are two reasons to expect the Tories to hold their lead in a way they couldn’t in 2017. One is that Boris Johnson’s strategy has made it harder for Nigel Farage to claim to be the only red-blooded Brexit option. The other is Labour’s unpopularity among those who want it to be a red-blooded Remain option.
Paul Cairney: It seems too early to tell, even though the Conservatives often seem to be well ahead of Labour in the polls. It is another election in which the twists and turns of the campaign will matter as many people will not vote for the same party they voted for last time and the role of (for example) the Brexit Party remains unclear.
Aileen McHarg: Even if the Tories win a majority, Johnson might find that “getting Brexit done” is not easy. There’s more to Brexit than passing the Withdrawal Agreement Bill. Opposition MPs, as well as the Lords, might still feel justified in trying to obstruct Brexit-related legislation and to control trade negotiations as any Tory majority is likely to be won on less than 50 per cent.
Anand Menon: We will know much more clearly in a week or so when we see what purchase Nigel Farage achieves with his message of opposing the deal. To date, the Prime Minister seems to have been more successful in keeping the support of Leave voters having missed his deadline than his predecessor was when she missed hers.
Nicola McEwen: Outside of Scotland, the Conservatives are polling well, so Boris Johnson’s gamble might pay off. But it is a long campaign and we know from past experience that campaigns can shift voting intentions. There are also many uncertainties at local level, including how votes for smaller parties will affect the bigger parties’ chances in marginal constituencies.
Rob Johns: Not at all. It will increase the pressure for a referendum but, with few (if any) seats in Scotland and a support base that is purely Unionist, the Conservatives would have no incentive to agree to one. In many ways, the surprise is that David Cameron was so amenable to the referendum first time. Johnson is unlikely to follow suit. This will test the SNP’s commitment to politely asking for a referendum.
Paul Cairney: I don’t think so. The need to secure the UK Government’s agreement is not a trivial issue and the SNP’s success in Westminster doesn’t seem to be a tipping point for that inevitable agreement. A more likely tipping point is the one we saw before, when the SNP could project the sense that it enjoyed a landslide Scottish Parliament election victory in 2011 (its manifesto included a referendum commitment).
Aileen McHarg: Nothing’s inevitable. Another 2015-style sweep of the board will be hard to ignore, especially if it gives the SNP a pivotal role in a hung Parliament. But under first-past-the-post, parties can do extremely well on a minority of votes. Unless the SNP gets above 50 per cent of the vote in Scotland, we can expect to see continued quibbling about the quality of its mandate.
Anand Menon: No, but more likely. The likelihood of a referendum will depend crucially on who is in government in Westminster.
Nicola McEwen: The legal authority for a referendum on independence lies with the UK Parliament. Electoral success for the SNP doesn’t change that legal fact. But it would help Nicola Sturgeon make the case that she has a mandate for a referendum and it would increase the political pressure on the UK Government and Parliament to concede one.
Rob Johns: We’re back in the same mess as before the election.  However, if the Conservatives are the largest party, they will at least have a stronger chance of getting their Brexit deal through. That’s because the new Tory MPs will mostly take a harder Brexit line than those who stood down or lost their seats.
Paul Cairney: Under normal circumstances, you’d expect to see the party with the most seats seek a majority coalition government. Failing that, it could seek the agreement of other parties to allow it to operate as a minority government. In theory, the second-largest party could form a majority coalition with one or more other parties but it isn’t usual and seems risky while there is so much Brexit uncertainty.
Aileen McHarg: In relation to Brexit, a majority for any one party is less important than a majority for what to do about Brexit. The problem in the current Parliament has been the inability to coalesce around any particular outcome, other than opposition to No Deal. We’ll need to see whether clearer lines of agreement emerge during the campaign.
Anand Menon: Another hung parliament may find Brexit even more intractable than this one, as the turnover of MPs – the departure of many Labour leavers and many Tory Brexit moderates – means compromise will be harder than ever. I’d guess we’d have another election in the spring or summer.
Nicola McEwen: Minority and coalition governments have been common in Scotland and many European countries. It’s interesting that the Prime Minister has so far been so ill at ease governing without a majority and unwilling to make the compromises that are necessary to make minority government work.
Rob Johns: They haven’t done a great job of managing expectations and so, at the moment, anything less than 50 seats is in danger of feeling like a failure. But they’ve already achieved one big goal – they’re at least a non-toxic option again for many who rejected them after the coalition with the Tories.
Paul Cairney: My vague answer is “enough MPs to matter”. The Lib Dems mattered in 2010 because they had enough seats to be necessary to coalition government formation. This time, I think they are more interested in having enough MPs to tip Parliament into voting for a second referendum (and making sure that the Government cannot refuse to hold one).
Aileen McHarg: Swinson is unlikely to be the next PM. Restoring the Lib Dems’ position as the third party in Parliament and preventing either Labour or Conservatives forming a majority government will be their realistic goal but they will be wary of entering into any formal agreements with other parties.
Anand Menon: I’d say anything over 40.
Nicola McEwen: Swinson will look to retain her seat in East Dunbartonshire and hope to restore the Lib  Dems to at least the levels of support they enjoyed in 2010, when they won 57 seats. Since then, after they entered coalition with the Tories, the party has suffered. They claim to have aspirations to be contenders for government in their own right but that’s a very tall order, given that they won just 12 seats last time.
Rob Johns: A faint chance. It would require some serious co-ordination and tactical voting on the Remain side to achieve the necessary anti-Tory majority in Parliament and, even then, there would be some serious arguing about what was on that second referendum ballot.
Paul Cairney: Yes, I think so, but I would not put money on it. I think it would require the sense that the Conservatives did not really gain much ground and could not project the sense that they had a new mandate. Even then, you are likely to see more pro-Brexit Conservative MPs (and some Brexit Party MPs) who would be unequivocally opposed to a second referendum.
Aileen McHarg: Yes. If this election doesn’t resolve parliamentary stalemate over Brexit, another referendum seems the only realistic option remaining. Simply revoking Article 50 without going back to the people would cause major legitimacy issues – but another extension would be necessary to allow time for a referendum and this can’t be guaranteed.
Anand Menon: Yes. If Corbyn is the next prime minister.
Nicola McEwen: A second Brexit referendum would require another Brexit extension. There’s a slim chance, depending on the outcome of the General Election. However, the chances of a No Deal Brexit at the end of January or the end of the transition period are arguably higher.
Rob Johns: It would require a turnaround even more extraordinary than in 2017. I predict a bleak mid-winter for Jeremy Corbyn.
Paul Cairney: It does not seem very likely right now. Then again, to me, many of the major events in recent times (including the election of Donald Trump and the vote for Brexit) seemed unlikely six weeks before they happened.
Aileen McHarg: A Labour majority seems extremely unlikely but Corbyn could become PM with the support of other parties. Whether the smaller parties are prepared to accept a Corbyn-led government will, probably, depend on their relative strength and bargaining power. For Corbyn, it may all be about the size of his minority.
Anand Menon: Unlikely but not inconceivable.
Nicola McEwen: It seems unlikely from this vantage point but a lot can happen to shift voting intentions in the context of the campaign. Jeremy Corbyn has proven himself to be an effective campaigner and the Labour Party has an  effective party machine and mass membership capable of mobilising their voters.
