
# Powerful England appear to hold upper hand in Rugby World Cup final

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:59:24+00:00**

Author: **Nick Evans, Ugo Monye, Ben Ryan**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/01/england-south-africa-rugby-world-cup-final-experts-ugo-monye-nick-evans)


        Guardian columnists take a look at the key players in the final and assess the potential gameplan and vulnerabilities in both teams
      
Nick Evans Owen Farrell. In the biggest tournament, to win you need your most influential player to play well and in the later games, the big games, he has been phenomenal. But I also have to mention Cheslin Kolbe for South Africa. I pray he stays fit for the final, this guy could steal the World Cup away from England. Tackling him is like chasing shadows. South Africa have to get him the ball.
Ugo Monye For England the way in which this duo of Tom Curry and Sam Underhill have forged and worked so well. The quality of it isn’t that surprising, but maybe the timing is. For it to have come together so late but have such a devastating impact on the biggest stages. It was untried and untested in the summer – it has been a welcome addition, they are world class together. For the Springboks, Bongi Mbonambi. Malcolm Marx this time last year was up for world player of the year. He had an unbelievably year but Mbonambi has come through and built up such a head of steam through the games. I was commentating on South Africa against Namibia and it struck me how their set piece and their driving maul was their point of difference. I wouldn’t have picked him as a starting hooker in a World Cup final 12 months ago when Marx was playing so well.
Ben Ryan George Ford. Just didn’t think he would be as good as he has been and he has shown his class in attack and his resilience in defence. Gives the attack with Farrell and Tuilagi a lovely and lively balance.
NE Different time and different game, I feel this team revolve around the core group of Saracens players among a few others. Ford, the Vunipolas, Maro Itoje, Farrell. The base cement of leadership for this team to thrive.
UM There are lots of similarities but equally a lot of differences. There were more than half a dozen Premiership captains in that 2003 side. A lot more experience, a little bit older on average. They went into that final as favourites, as do this current team, but on the whole they are a lot younger. There is a lot more diversity in this squad and a lot of this current side could feature heavily in 2023. But a lot of the rugby traits are similar.
BR You just cannot compare. Different eras so players have different skill sets for how the game was played in 2003 and 2019. Different environments have been created and different styles of leaders. Both would have at least five players that would be deemed truly world class.
NE The 2007 side with Eddie Jones involved was based on low possession and high kicking. A lot like the South Africa we saw in the semi-final against Wales. Maybe it’s their blueprint to winning World Cups.
UM Similar. If I was to compare them the backbone is really not that far off. This side have a bit more in attack if they choose to use. Willie le Roux has shown what he can do in the Premiership, Cheslin Kolbe is so unique as a talent, Handré Pollard is similar to Butch James – there are a huge amount of similarities but there is an attacking threat now.
BR Again it’s hard to compare but there is more similarity in both style and quality of player in the South Africans. Both sides had a togetherness that perhaps helped in getting the whole to be more than the sum of its parts.
NE England: squeeze, suffocate, strangle. South Africa: bully-boy game.
UM England: physical, confrontational, disciplined. South Africa: physical, emotional, relentless.
BR England: polished, powerful, precise. South Africa: united, stubborn, driven.
NE If they play like they did in the semi-final then England win, simple as that. Can they replicate the intensity of playing the All Blacks? I expect more aerial bombardment on the Springboks’ back three.
UM Their game is based on defence and control. You could look at a Saracens gameplan and get a good idea of it. Control, territory, taking your opportunities. If England win the gainline they will be in for a history‑making day.
BR Change their point of contact in attack and try to stretch South Africa after a few fringe attacks. Exit quickly. Steal a few pieces of possession at lineout and ruck and defensively stay low on penalties and pounce on loose kicks.

        … and South Africa’s?
      
NE I hope it’s not the teeth-pulling 40 kicks we saw in the semi-final. This team can play, it has pace and power in the backs and a strangling power forward game. The question is whether they want to use it.
UM It’s a good question. Rassie Erasmus has said that they will go after England aerially, but it’s a case of what will their plan B be if they’ve got to chase the game. How will they react to England’s suffocating defence? Australia have looked as threatening as anyone else at this World Cup but they got the control of the game absolutely wrong. If South Africa can get enough ball in the right area, what will their attacking threat look like? That’s not quite an answer, it’s a challenge to them, because I’m not sure.
BR Concerted and sustained box‑kick and cross-kick and chase. Fewer offloads and more hard yards. Defend with pace and try to hit England backwards.
NE The size of the South Africa pack may make it not as easy to win gainline as they did against NZ. Where do they go if they lose the power battle? An aerial assault on Elliot Daly can cause issues.
UM England have not been tested consistently in the air for 80 minutes. That doesn’t necessarily mean they will be vulnerable there. They will have prepared for it but they have not been put under enough pressure for us to know exactly where they are. And the set piece. I expected more from Argentina, while Australia didn’t really test England there. But I look back to last summer’s tour and they put some good pressure on England and did it again in November.
BR They really are playing well in all departments. Their form suggests they can absorb all that is thrown at them bar red cards and key injuries. If I was getting out the crystal ball, the type of game that England would come second in would be an attritional arm-wrestle against a Bok pack mauling and short-carrying that will be allowed to win ball with blunt force trauma.
NE Much the same, if Gameplan A doesn’t work, we saw them squeak past Wales but look rattled when Wales hung in, matching the power. Can they create more?
UM Kick return. That’s where New Zealand really tore them apart. They looked slightly fractured in their kick chase and Anthony Watson, the amount of defenders he has beaten, is right up there. Jonny May and Elliot Daly looked excellent on kick return against New Zealand. If they kick poorly, and they are going to kick a lot, England can take advantage. And as much as Faf de Klerk is a strength for South Africa, I just wonder if England have learned their lessons now and can turn him into a weakness. He flies out of the line, he creates turnovers, but if England manage that well they can get on top of him.
BR I think they will find it hard to cope with England playing with width as they often did against NZ. The speed of ball England produces will be hard for them to keep producing fast line speed. They could get penalised pretty heavily if they don’t stop England early in their phase attack.
NE England by 10.
UM England by 10.
BR England 20 South Africa 16.
