
# Asean leaders to tackle sea code, 4th Industrial Revolution

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:27:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/01/asean-leaders-to-tackle-sea-code-4th-industrial-revolution/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
President Duterte is set to leave for Bangkok, Thailand, today, November 1, to attend the 35th Asean Summit and Related Summits to be held from November 2 to 4.
Foreign Affairs Assistant Secretary Junever Mahilum-West earlier said the President may once again raise the need for a Code of Conduct in the South China Sea during the summit. 
The Philippines is the country coordinator for the Asean-China Dialogue Relations until 2021. 
During the summit, the Philippines will express its support for Thailand’s priorities as Asean chairman, which includes making Asean respond more effectively to regional and global changes.
With the theme “Partnership for Sustainability,” the Summit will prepare Asean for the Fourth Industrial Revolution and further realize the Asean Community Vision 2025. 
About 40 outcome documents are expected at the end of the annual summit to be attended by heads of Asean member-states and dialogue partner countries, according to the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
On the first day of the summit tomorrow, November 2, the President is expected to attend the Asean Summit Plenary.
The Philippines is also expected to participate in several other related summits, including the Asean Plus Three Summit and East Asia Summit where leaders will share their views on regional and international issues affecting Southeast Asia and beyond.
On Sunday, November 3, world leaders will attend the Opening Ceremony followed by a series of summits: Asean-China Summit, Asean-India Summit and Asean-United Nations Summit. 
On the last day of the Summit, Asean and its trade partners will meet in the morning. The Asean-Japan Summit and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) Summit will take place in the afternoon. 
The Asean Plus Three Summit will be attended by the 10 member-states of the regional bloc together with China, Japan and Korea. 
Businessmen from the region will participate in the Asean Business and Investment Summit, Mekong-Japan Summit Working Dinner and Indo-Pacific Business Forum.
There will also be a hand over ceremony of the Asean chairmanship from Thailand to Vietnam at the Closing Session on November 12.  Accompanying the President are the secretaries of Foreign Affairs and Trade and Industry, as well as other Cabinet members.
