
# Arjun Kapoor speaks on his marriage with Malaika Arora, says we don't want to get married

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:18:22+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/arjun-kapoor-speaks-on-his-marriage-with-malaika-arora-says-we-dont-want-to-get-married/articleshow/71954293.cms)

Arjun Kapoor is on a roll these days. After the trailer release of 'Panipat', the actor has been the talk of the town for is portrayal of his role in the historical drama. Also the makers of 'Batla House' had made an announcement about their next project featuring Arjun Kapoor and Rakul Preet. Like his professional life, Arjun equally gives importance to his personal life. He is very much close his father Boney, sisters Anshula, Janhvi and Khushi. As we all know post Sridevi's death, the equation in the family changed for the good.
Arjun Kapoor of late spoke to a media house and shared how he has changed notions towards his sisters. Not only that Arjun also spoke about his girl friend and their impending marriage plans.
While talking to a media publication, Arjun shared his equation with sister Janhvi and Khushi. He said that one must realise that we need to let go of the angst one had while growing up and be more mature. He further shared how lucky he feels that his father Boney is with them during these changing times. Arjun expressed that god is being kind to all and they are still discovering each other which is a good thing.
Arjun was also asked about his love equation with Malaika Arora on which the actor opened up and said that they don't want to get married and shall invite everyone whenever it happens. Arjun further backed it with a reason that his family has big fat weddings and he won't be allowed to get married in a hush-hush wedding.
True that, Arjun!
