
# 'Today is a good day to go to the Glenbow': New CEO has ambitious plans for 53-year-old museum

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:25:31+00:00**

Author: **Eric Volmers**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/entertainment/local-arts/today-is-a-good-day-to-go-to-the-glenbow-new-ceo-has-ambitious-plans-for-53-year-old-museum)

Nicholas R. Bell has a grand, overarching ambition for the Glenbow Museum.
It involves everyone who lives in the city.
“I want every Calgarian to wake up in the morning, and it doesn’t matter if its 30 degrees outside or if it’s -30 degrees outside, and think: ‘You know, today is a good day to go to the Glenbow. I’ve heard great things are going on there. Let’s take the kids, let’s invite our friends, let’s make a day of it,’ ” says Bell, the new CEO and president of Glenbow Museum. “I think there is always room to build that bridge so people realize this isn’t something you can take for granted, this is a resource for their city and it’s something you need to go back to time and time again.”
Bell, who began his new job on Friday and replaces Donna Livingston, is the first to admit that attendance figures are certainly not the sole measure of success when it comes to museums and art galleries. But it is an area where he has enjoyed some success in the past. Prior to his most recent role as senior vice-president for curatorial affairs at Mystic Seaport Museum in Connecticut, the Vancouver-born Bell served as The Fleur and Charles Bresler Curator-in-Charge of the Smithsonian American Art Museum’s Renick Gallery in Washington, D.C. and led a relaunch that saw yearly attendance soar from 150,000 to one million.
Bell says he does not have concrete numbers in mind when it comes to boosting Glenbow’s attendance, which rose from 150,000 last year to 167,770 this year. But he will say he was attracted to the Glenbow because of an overriding feeling that it is an institution primed for transformation.
“As I came to Calgary and began to meet the leadership at the museum and with the board and the community, I have to say I was just bowled over. There’s a lot of energy here. There’s a lot of excitement and I think there is a real sense of urgency about advancing the institution and about the future of Calgary.”
According to the news release announcing Bell’s appointment back in August, Glenbow is already “focused on a full transformation of its building and exhibit spaces.” Early this year, Glenbow transformed its second floor into four new gallery spaces that currently feature, among other exhibits, work by 2018 artist in residence Albertine Crow Shoe and a major installation by artist Kent Monkman called The Rise and Fall of Civilization. Meanwhile, the Many Faces, Many Paths: Art of Asia exhibit, which had been a Glenbow mainstay for 30 years, was temporarily packed away although plans are to include it at some point in a newly configured exhibition space on Glenbow’s fourth floor.
Details about what may or may not happen with some of the museum’s other permanent exhibits — an eclectic spread that includes Mavericks: An Incorrigible History of Alberta, Where Symbols Meet: A Celebration of West African Achievement, Warriors: A Global Journey Through Five Centuries, Treasures of the Mineral World, among others — have yet to be decided, although Bell says any transformation will still regard these collections as assets.
“I’ve got a big education in front of me,” he says. “I need to learn the lay of the land and understand really what I’m getting myself into before I work with the team to create those major decisions. But what I think is important to realize — and this is where I’ve got quite a bit of experience — (is) that historical collections are always rife for reinterpretation. There are always opportunity to bring new voices, new perspectives and new people and dialogue to collections, even if they have been seen and understood in one way for a long time.”
Bell says he also sees Glenbow’s hybrid identity — Is it a history museum or an art gallery? — as an asset.
“I’ve realized over years of working in museums that I actually enjoy institutions where there are questions around what the edges of the mission, what the edges of the collection, are,” he says. “I like it when they drive out of the lane and colour outside of the lines and show people that life is just as complex. When you get into an organization with a collection as diverse as Glenbow, it helps you realize it’s a mirror of our culture and other cultures. It’s not so easy to separate history from art.”
Calgary’s landscape for art galleries will certainly change over the next couple of years with the launch of Contemporary Calgary, an ambitious project that will include a $30-million renovation to transform the old Centennial Planetarium into a contemporary and modern art gallery by the summer of 2021. Bell says he hopes to form partnerships with the new institution.
“No city’s cultural landscape is a zero-sum game, so we want Contemporary Calgary to succeed to the best of their abilities, we want them to meet their maximum potential,” Bell says. “What this city needs is a culture that not only demonstrates the city’s wealth to its citizens but also attracts new people to come here. A vibrant, strong, reinvigorated Contemporary Calgary is beneficial for all of us, including Glenbow.”
As for Glenbow’s own art exhibits, Bell says he hopes to continue offering high-profile travelling exhibits such as this year’s Nick Cave exhibit, which was the American artist’s first Canadian solo show, and creating its own shows from its massive archives, such as the current Sybil Andrews retrospective.
“What I always want to happen when people show up for shows like Nick Cave, is to be reminded that Glenbow is its own source of wealth,” he says. “You don’t always need a packaged show from some other museum that’s far away to demonstrate value to visitors.”
