
# Harry Styles reveals why he turned down role of Prince Eric in Little Mermaid

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:44:21+00:00**

Author: **Ellie Harrison**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/films/news/harry-styles-little-mermaid-prince-eric-reject-role-a9183981.html?utm_term=Autofeed&utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter)

Harry Styles has revealed why he turned down the role of Prince Eric in the forthcoming live-action remake of The Little Mermaid.
The former One Direction singer said there were a “few things” that meant he could not commit to the film’s production schedule in an interview with Capital FM.
“I think it’s obviously going to be an amazing film,” Styles said. “But they shoot for so long and I want to tour next year, maybe. I haven’t announced that yet, but yeah, it just didn’t quite line up.” 
Halle Bailey will star as Ariel in the new film from director Rob Marshall, while Jacob Tremblay and Awkwafina are rumoured to be joining the cast as best friends Flounder and Scuttle.
Bailey’s casting sparked a racist backlash online from people who complained that she did not look like Disney’s original version of Ariel, who was drawn as white. 
Melissa McCarthy is reportedly in talks to play Ariel’s enemy, Ursula.
The role of Prince Eric, though, is yet to be officially cast, with Cameron Cuffe and Jonah Hauer among those to be rumoured for the part.
Styles released “Lights Up”, the first single from his forthcoming second album, in October.
