
# You can be jailed or fined £5,000 for letting off fireworks at the wrong time

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:22:20+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/fined-fireworks-risks-5-000-20810787)

Bonfire Night means many of us will be lighting up the skies over a warm hot chocolate and woolly hat.
And to mark November 5, many local parks will be hosting events to get us out to celebrate the autumn tradition.
But for those of you planning to host your very own display of lights, there are a few rules to follow.
In fact failing to stick to them could land you an on-the-spot £90 fine - which could jump to as high as £5,000.
And that's excluding any noise pollution complaints for displeased neighbours - which includes a letter, and at worst, an anti-social behaviour order along with civil action.
 
Firstly, you can’t buy 'adult' fireworks if you’re under 18.
It’s also against the law for anyone to set off fireworks between 11pm and 7am, except on certain occasions:
You must not set off fireworks between 11pm and 7am outside of the above events,
Always check with your council to find out about any local rules for setting off fireworks.
If not used properly, fireworks can pose serious risks not just to children, but adults, too. Remember:
As well as the above, it's worth remembering that all children should be supervised whilst handling fireworks and sparklers must only be handed to those aged five or above.
 
Adult fireworks are category 2 and 3 fireworks - they don’t include things like party poppers.
Category 4 fireworks can only be used by professionals. The law says you must not set off or throw fireworks (including sparklers) in the street or other public places.
You can only buy fireworks (including sparklers) from registered sellers for private use on these dates:
At other times you can only buy fireworks from licensed shops.
You can be fined up to the price of £5,000.
If deemed serious, you could be imprisoned for up to six months for selling or using fireworks illegally.
An on the spot fine can also be administered of £90.
