
# Giving Footsoldiers a bad name: why film title changes are the biggest crime of all

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:09:24+00:00**

Author: **Stuart Heritage**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/nov/01/title-change-rise-of-the-footsoldier-gangsters)


        Lairy crime saga Rise of the Footsoldiers is the latest victim of a film-industry smash-and-grab: a new title. Do they think we’re mugs?
      
Fans of the preposterous low-budget British crime saga Rise of the Footsoldier have plenty to worry about. There’s the series’ Rotten Tomatoes score, which has oscillated from a high of 88% to a horrible low of 23%. There’s the sad realisation that Shaun Ryder won’t be in any of the new films, after he was so memorably stabbed to death with a lightbulb in the last one. And now they have a name change to contend with.
Next week’s fourth instalment had originally been titled Rise of the Footsoldier: Marbella. But now, in a last-minute reverse ferret, it is to be called Rise of the Footsoldier: The Spanish Heist. Why? Perhaps producers were worried the original title was too geographically specific, or that it didn’t explicitly promise dumb violence. Maybe this new one is just easier to pronounce.
But one thing is for certain. A name change of any kind is more often than not a bad thing. Look at what happened to Ford v Ferrari. That was a great title for a film. Two great car brands – one a workaday populist, the other an expensive status symbol – facing off against each other. You saw the title Ford v Ferrari and you knew exactly what the film was about.
Except it isn’t called Ford vs Ferrari in the UK. Here it’s been changed to Le Mans 66, which is just about the worst title ever given to a film. It’s simultaneously more specific and more obscure, plus it ends with a number. You’ll remember that the play The Madness of George III was retitled as The Madness of King George when it was adapted for the screen, so as not to alienate people who might think it was the completion of a trilogy. The same could be said here. Why am I going to watch Le Mans 66 if I haven’t seen all first 65? Worse, will I have to do a French accent when I ask for a ticket? Because I don’t shop at Hotel Chocolat for exactly that reason.
