
# Two Omani teams to participate in Young Arab Entrepreneurs Competition

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Times News Service**

Original: [Times of Oman](https://timesofoman.com/article/2172721/Business/Two-Omani-teams-to-participate-in-Young-Arab-Entrepreneurs-Competition)

Muscat: Two Omani teams will participate in the much anticipated Injaz Al-Arab’s 13th Annual Young Arab Entrepreneurs competition, to be held at the Kempinski, Muscat on November 6.The competition is part of a two-day event consisting of panel discussions, competitions and award ceremony – held under the patronage of His Highness Sayyid Asa’ad bin Tariq bin Taimur Al-Said, Deputy Prime Minister for Relations and International Affairs and Special Representative of His Majesty Sultan Qaboos bin Said.Khaula Al Harthy, CEO of Injaz Oman said: “Oman, like other Arab countries, has a large youth population with huge potential. The two teams taking part have incorporated excellent innovation into their businesses and we look forward to seeing how they fare against the others. This will certainly be a great learning opportunity for the Omani teams to find out more about what their colleagues elsewhere in the Arab world are innovating and a chance for them to collaborate in the future with them. The power of such collaborations can be infinite.”Couch Company, one of the two Omani companies taking part specialises in the manufacture of furniture from cotton and reused sponge. The company ensures that the design and aesthetics of the furniture reflect a rich mix of Arab and contemporary styles. Using environmentally friendly materials helps reducing polyester residues from cotton and synthetic sponges from being dumped into the environment.
The other team, Mahya Company, specialises in the sustainable production of nutritious animal feed with high levels of protein. Since its establishment in September last year, the company has recently innovated an ecologically friendly fish feed ‘Prozolla’ - an organic feed for all freshwater fishes and red-eared turtles - for farmed fishes that reassures sustainability.Over 80 students across MENA will be competing for the coveted ‘Company of the Year’, ‘Product of the Year’ and ‘Social Impact’ awards. More than 500 people including senior government officials and esteemed public figures will be attending the awards ceremony. This year’s competition was a culmination of 19 teams from Oman, UAE, Bahrain, Algeria, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, Egypt Tunisia, Palestine, Qatar, Yemen and Palestine.
