
# Ayushmann Khurrana and Tahira Kashyap's 11 years of togetherness; actor wishes wife with an adorable throwback anniversary post

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:09:12+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/ayushmann-khurrana-and-tahira-kashyaps-11-years-of-togetherness-actor-wishes-wife-with-an-adorable-throwback-anniversary-post/articleshow/71849592.cms)

Ayushmann Khurrana has proved his acting skills in several films and even won the National Award for his stellar performances but the 'Dream Girl' actor is equally a family man as he makes sure that he spends ample amount of time with his kids and wife as well.
The versatile actor, who is married to his childhood sweetheart Tahira complete 11 years of marriage today and owing to the occasion, Ayushmann took to social media to share an adorable post for his wife wishing her a happy anniversary.
Sharing a beautiful throwback picture of Tahira, Ayushmann wrote, "Eleven years with this beautiful girl. Got butterflies of all kinds while posting this picture. Umm ❤️Happy anniversary @tahirakashyap. ❤️"
The cute couple, who are parents to two kids: Virajveer and a daughter Varushka, is a true example of true love and have been giving all their fans major relationship goals for a long time now. Tahira and Ayushmann have also stood by one another in good and bad times and emerged victorious in the end.
Meanwhile, on the professional front, Ayushmann is all set to entertain the audience once again with an unconventional film titled 'Bala' which is being helmed by Amar Kaushik. The film which also features Yami Gautam and Bhumi Pednekar is slated to release on 7th November 2019.
