
# KSI's own trainer claims YouTube star is 'not a real fighter' ahead of Logan Paul rematch

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:54:47+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/ksis-trainer-claims-youtube-star-20830029)

KSI's own trainer has claimed the YouTube star is "not a real fighter" ahead of his rematch with Logan Paul.
The social media influencers will clash for a second time on Saturday, more than a year after their first fight ended in a draw.
KSI - real name Olajide William Olatunji - brought on Floyd Mayweather's uncle Jeff to assist trainer Viddal Riley.
But Mayweather has opened up about the problems in the training camp.
He said: "The camp at one point... everyone was pushing this guy one way and the other way and he didn’t really know what to do.
"[KSI] put in a lot of work, worked very hard. I mean, he doesn't need the money so he’s not doing it for that. He worked hard, like a fighter that’s a beginning fighter... and worked a little too hard at times.
"It was basically good thing that I was part of the camp because I did have to harness everybody in and make everyone realise that, no matter what, he’s not a real fighter.
"Sometimes I’d talk to him and then he would do other things just to impress the team members and that’s not necessary.
"So overall I think that towards the end of the camp everybody kind of rallied in together and everybody started to understand the fact that it’s time for everybody to be positive moving forward and that now it’s time to fight.’"
Both KSI and Paul have promised to end the fight early having been granted licences by the California State Athletic Commission.
Having turned professional, they will dispense with the headguards and pull on 10oz gloves at the Staples Center.
And despite his reservations, Mayweather believes he is in the right corner.
"For me it’s easy for me to check my ego. But even when I check my ego, I’m still going to check someone else when I see them doing something wrong," he added.
"If there’s something being taught that he’s not going to be able to learn because people have been doing it for years.
"So I took it upon myself to actually bring that to a point to everyone. There were certain things that he was practising on and working on that he don’t need, that he doesn’t even need to be trying.
"He can punch, whether he’s a boxer or not, the guy can really punch hard. A guy like Logan Paul, if he gets hit clean by him, the fight is gonna be over."
