
# League of Legends: Wild Rift Gets my Favourite Champion Exactly Right

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:00:19+00:00**

Author: **Alistair Jones**

Original: [Kotaku UK](https://www.kotaku.co.uk/2019/11/05/league-of-legends-wild-rift-gets-my-favourite-champion-exactly-right)

I would like to take this opportunity to publicly announce my (undefeated) retirement from League of Legends: Wild Rift. Having won my first and only game with a healthy scoreline, there's simply no other worlds to conquer. Given the strength of Riot’s new console MOBA I definitely don’t relish such a decision, but the bragging rights are worth it.
After ten years playing LoL on PC, Wild Rift takes a little getting used to. The project isn’t a port of the original, but a game rebuilt to accommodate the twin-stick control setups of the new platforms. I found Wild Rift’s near-constant movement a bit tricky at the start of the game, but it didn’t take long before I was side-stepping skillshots and pulling off seamless blinks over obstacles.
Quality of life changes are nestled throughout the game. The asymmetric League of Legends map has been mirrored in Wild Rift to help mobile players, and the entire game has been sped up. Riot claims that the average game time is 15-18 minutes, down from anywhere up to 40 minutes on PC, in an attempt to encapsulate the entire gameplay loop - from logging in to finishing a match - within 30 minutes. To that end champions unlock their ultimates earlier, minions and monsters yield greater rewards, and the defences protecting your base have been scaled back in an attempt to focus matches on teamfighting rather than drawn-out sieges.
Champions are also changing. While League of Legends boasts a roster of more than 140 characters, Wild Rift is aiming to launch with only 40. While the developers enjoy the nod to the original’s launch roster, the reality is that some champions aren’t much fun to play on mobile, and as such aren’t likely to ever be brought over - although brand-new alternatives could arrive in their place. For now, some champions are getting their own tweaks - Ashe’s Enchanted Crystal Arrow can now be aimed by dragging manually across the screen, while Vayne’s Silver Bolts will offer an activatable attack speed boost on top of its current effect.
