
# Huawei MatePad Pro with 40W fast charge gets 3C certification - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:26:35+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/06/huawei-matepad-pro-with-40w-fast-charge-gets-3c-certification/)

Huawei MatePad Pro with 40W fast charge gets 3C certification5 (100%) 1 vote
Chinese manufacturing giant, Huawei, is getting working on a new tablet – Huawei MatePad Pro. From the renders of this device that hit the web sometime last month, this tablet comes with slim bezels and punch-hole display. However, the latest information suggests that this device now has China’s 3C certification.
According to the listing, this tablet comes with model numbers MRX-W09 and MRX-AL09. This most likely refers to the Wi-Fi and LTE variants of the Huawei MatePad Pro… In addition, this tablet comes with support for a 40W fast charge. The issue date is November 5th. and the manufacturer and applicant are Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. According to speculations, this device will come with up to 8GB of RAM. In addition, there are rumors that it will use the Kirin 990 SoC and a 2560 x 1440 resolution display.
The previous generation Huawei MediaPad M6 comes with the 7nm Kirin 980 processor. It uses a 2K screen with a high screen ratio. The MediaPad M6 support GPU Turbo 3.0 and its equipped with a large capacity battery. Considering the flagship positioning of Huawei M series tablet, in addition to 40W fast charging, Huawei MatePad Pro should be equipped with Kirin 990 processor, also using a high-resolution screen and large-capacity battery.

        Via
      
