
# Liverpool star's admission will infuriate Aston Villa fans

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/sadio-mane-liverpool-dive-villa-17214730)

Liverpool star Sadio Mane has hit back a Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola after being accused of diving by the Barcelona legend.
Guardiola bizarrely rounded on Mane on Saturday evening in his post-match press conference after watching his side come from 1-0 down to beat Southampton 2-1 at the Etihad Stadium.
Mane and Liverpool had been in action at the same time, beating Aston Villa by the same scoreline at Villa Park.
It was a similar situation in B6, Mane's side behind before storming back to grab the three points late on.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
The Senegal international crossed in for Andy Robertson's headed equaliser before bundling in Trent Alexander-Arnold's corner four minutes into added time.
There was controversy surrounding Mane in the clash because he was booked for simulation, leading to Guardiola to accuse him of diving.
Critics have said Guardiola was trying to get into Mane and Liverpool's heads in the build-up to the Premier League clash between the two sides on Sunday, with City six points behind Jurgen Klopp's league leaders.
But Mane says he takes no notice.
 
“I think it's a bit clever from him to get the attention of the referee but I will just play my football like I'm always doing," he says.
"I don't pay attention to what he's saying because it's part of football.
“It doesn't make anything for me.
"Even though I saw him commenting about it, what he said, for me, I think it's positive!”
In comments that are sure to annoy Guardiola even further, Mane has added he would 'dive' again.
“If it could be a penalty for sure I will ‘dive’ again," Mane added.
“If the ‘dive’ will give me a penalty then I will do it. Why not? But what Jurgen said is correct. I do not dive,” said Mane.
“There was contact (at Villa) for sure. Maybe it was not a penalty and he didn’t give it, and he gave me a yellow card. To be honest I don’t have any problem about it.
“It’s what I want to keep doing. If I get a penalty, yeah it’s a penalty. If no penalty, no penalty, but (it) will never change the way I’m playing or the way I’m doing my things.”
