
# Legion issues appeal for new local poppy sellers

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:29:22+00:00**

Author: **Jackie Grant, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jackie-grant/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/legion-issues-appeal-new-local-20788716)

A retired army officer has sent out an SOS for volunteers to help in the preparation and sale of the traditional remembrance poppies.
In the past nine years the sales in Dumfries have raised £190,000 to benefit struggling ex-servicemen and families.
And now with Remembrance Day ahead, the work of preparing and selling the emblems is already under way – but the number of people coming forward to help is steadily falling.
Retired major Willie Turner, who is president of the Dumfries and Maxwelltown Royal British Legion, said: “The activists are getting a bit short on the ground because they are getting older so we need new blood to man the stall in the Loreburne Centre in Dumfries and more people to help us put the cans out and get them back in again.
”Anybody who wants to help is most welcome. You don’t have to be an old soldier or an old airman or sailor or widow.”
The money is used to help veterans and widows who have fallen on hard times whether medical, lack of money or needing a home. Willie added: “I suspect it’s going to be needed even more in the future when the problems following Afghanistan and Iraq surface.”
Over the last week, four other members of the local British Legion branch have been manning the stall including George Hannah, 64, and 80-year-old Robert Hannah.
Chairman of the group and ex-submariner Colin Harris, 64, said: “We’ve another couple of weeks to go before Remembrance Day so there’s plenty of time for people to volunteer their services and help on the stall, even if it’s just for an hour. “
Treasurer and secretary Frank Roy, 75, added: “We’ve got more than 200 collection cans in shops, pubs and supermarkets in Dumfries and members of the public continue to be generous.
“We keep doing this to remember the people who died in two world wars and other conflicts that have come afterwards. It’s a way to honour and help them and their families.”
Anyone interested should contact the stand at the Loreburne Centre.
