
# Schoolboy beaten by teen thug gang who stole bike bids to launch anti-bullying campaign

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:36:56+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/schoolboy-beaten-teen-thug-gang-20794304)

A schoolboy terrorised by teen thugs who stole his bike is on a mission to stop bullies in their tracks.
Sonni Murray was selling tablet and macaroon bars on his bike in the Moredun area of Edinburgh when a gang of up to 12 teenagers dragged him off the road and forced him to fight.
They first pounced on him in the grounds of Liberton High School, where the gang made Sonny fight another boy.
He was then forced into a playpark at Glenvarloch Crescent where he was beaten again.
The brutal attack on Wednesday left the tearful ten-year-old with a burst lip and swollen face.
 
But Sonni, known as Sonni Boy by loved ones, is determined to make the best out his ordeal, and launch an anti-bullying campaign.
Sonni's dad, who asked not to be named, told the Record: "We've been overwhelmed by the support from the local community after Sonni was attacked.
"Two online fundraising pages have been set up to replace his stolen bike.
"Over £4,300 has been raised between the two sites.
"Sonni is so grateful, but that's far too much.
"He wants to put the money to good use and help others."
 
Schoolboy Sonni came up with the idea of an anti-bullying campaign to help others who endured cruel taunts or violence just like him.
"The idea is to put a cap on the money that has been raised so far, and put that into a separate Go Fund Me page," Sonni's dad added.
"That money can then be used to get the ball rolling with the campaign.
"We're unsure at this stage whether we'd want to get schools or the council or charities involved.
"But already a group of bikers have been in touch saying that they would take the campaign across the country.
"It's all about raising awareness.
"The support in just a couple of days has been amazing."
