
# Dua Lipa and boyfriend Anwar Hadid send MTV EMAs viewers into meltdown with awkward exchange

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:41:23+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/dua-lipa-boyfriend-anwar-hadid-17194256)

Dua Lipa performed at the MTV Europe Music Awards on Sunday evening, and she had her boyfriend Anwar Hadid there to support her.
But those watching at home were left flocking to social media to have their say - when they were seen sitting next to each other in the audience looking very awkward.
Dua Lipa, 24, sat next to her boyfriend Anwar Hadid, 20, the younger brother of models Bella and Gigi.
The pair have been together since Lipa's reported split from her former partner, chef Isaac Carew, earlier this year.
One tweeted: "Anwar Hadid next to Dua Lipa was precisely the picture of happiness."
"Anwar looks so done I'm dying," another posted.
A third said: "Dua and Anwar with that f***ing face."
Halsey won the first award of the night, beating stars including Ariana Grande and Shawn Mendes to the best pop prize.
Mendes then performed his hit There's Nothing Holdin' Me Back before former One Direction star Niall Horan appeared to sing his new track, Nice To Meet Ya, a track reminiscent of the rock and roll of the Arctic Monkeys.
Then Rosalia was awarded the prize for best collaboration for Con Altura with Colombian reggaeton artist J Balvin. Accepting the award, the Spanish singer thanked her mother.
 
After a performance by Halsey, Green Day accepted the best rock award.
Lead singer Billie Joe Armstrong told the crowd: "Thank you, gracias, grazie mille."
He added: "Viva Espana."
 
After Ava Max took to the stage, backed by a string section, in a red gown to perform a medley of songs including her hit Sweet But Psycho.
Billie Eilish was awarded the prize for best song for Bad Guy while Shawn Mendes got best artist. Martin Garrix took home the best electronic prize.
All three thanked their fans via video messages.
