
# San Diego Airport: 'Epstein Coverup' alert was an employee mistake

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:59:49+00:00**

Author: **Mark Saunders**

Original: [Fox 4](https://www.fox4now.com/news/national/san-diego-airport-epstein-coverup-alert-was-an-employee-mistake)

SAN DIEGO (KGTV) — A San Diego International Airport spokesperson said Wednesday a reported paging that went viral was made by mistake.
Video on Twitter claimed to show San Diego Airport's messaging system announce a page for "Epstein Coverup" on a digital display. The text read: "Airport is paging Epstein Coverup please meet your party at terminal two east by American Airlines."
An airport spokesperson told 10News that the message was a mistake, and steps were "being taken to avoid such mistakes in the future."
"San Diego International Airport’s paging system is a vital communications resource for airport users in a sometimes busy, hectic environment. Airport users depend on this system to reach loved ones or receive notifications in a timely manner. In this instance, our employee made a mistake. Steps are being taken to avoid such mistakes in the future," the statement read.
Earlier Tuesday, a video was posted online of ABC anchor Amy Robach venting about how an interview with Jeffrey Epstein accuser Virginia Giuffre never aired. The clip shows Robach ranting about how the story, shot in 2015, was handled.
ABC said Tuesday that the interview didn't meet its standards because it lacked sufficient corroborating evidence, denying outside pressure had anything to do with the decision.
In response, social media users started spreading the "Epstein Coverup" hashtag online.
Epstein was found dead in his jail cell in August. His death was ruled a suicide by hanging by the New York medical examiner.
This article was written by Mark Saunders for KGTV .
