
# Mark Bright details vile racist threats to him: We'll break your back you n***** s***

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Bright**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/mark-bright-details-vile-racist-20818474)

Mark Bright is the striker who went from foster care to the Premier League and Wembley cup finals.
He forged one of English football’s deadliest double acts with Ian Wright at Crystal Palace , where Bright is now academy coach and owner Steve Parish’s trusted lieutenant.
Bright’s professional career began at Port Vale and also saw spells at Leicester , Sheffield Wednesday and Charlton.
In his moving and forthright autobiography, Bright traces his journey from loving foster homes to the big time, including his close encounters with racism, depression and a faith healer.
I was too young to know it at the time, but I later found out it was a note pinned to a door – from my mum to my dad, basically saying she’d had enough – that was the trigger for the direction my life was to take.
Looking through official documents and piecing t­ogether what went on, I’ve been able to get some idea of what happened.
You hear about kids who spend their entire childhood in a care home, but that didn’t happen to us. It was always me and my older brother, Phil.
He was always there for me and, by the time I was seven, we’d been moved around from one place to another for most of our lives, so turning up at a new home was probably something we became used to.
By the time we met them, Bob and Irene Davies were in their mid-50s and had already fostered more than 50 kids, as well as ­having their own family.
We had no way of knowing it, but Bob and Irene would have a big part to play in our lives. They were kind but firm, and we soon referred to them as Grandad and Gran. I was seven years old when I arrived at their house and 18 when I moved out.
I will never get my head around how a parent can give up a child. Luckily, there are people in this world willing to take on someone else’s responsibility and, more importantly, give a child a chance in life.
Colour may not have been an issue for our foster parents, but we soon learned that was not the case for some of the children we went to school with.
Dove Bank Primary School, in Kidsgrove, was only a few ­hundred yards from the house, and we would walk to school each day, but it wasn’t long ­before it became the walk of fear.
The daily journey home soon ­became the source of a new game for some of the other kids. They would lie in wait for us.
They would get hold of ­whatever they could get their hands on and they really let us have it. “See you tomorrow,” they shouted, and we knew we were in for more of the same next day.
It was probably the first major incident of racism I had ­experienced up to that point. It wasn’t to be the last.
After going out to look for a game of football, on the way back to the house I had to walk up a narrow dirt track and, as I turned a corner, a kid appeared with a German Shepherd dog on a lead.
In his other hand he had a long stick, with a piece of ­washing line tied to the end of it, like a home-made whip.
“See him off!” he shouted at the dog, who started barking and pulling on the lead.
He was laughing at me ­cowering against the fence, and clearly enjoyed the sight of his dog terrifying the life out of me.
I didn’t want to run because there would only be one winner. This kid flicked his stick and hit me across the legs with the washing line and I started crying.
Growing up, I can recall ­people walking past me in the street and calling me “n****r” – and these were grown men, not kids.
Years later, scoring twice on my debut didn’t exactly prove to be a springboard for my career at Leicester. I became aware of the groans if I did something wrong during a game, but one day I ­became aware of something else.
It was the sound of comments aimed in my direction, that had little to do with the way I was playing, but a lot to do with the fact I was black.
Something like that has an ­effect, no matter how far you try to put it to the back of your mind, and get on with playing a football match.
When I was at Sheffield Wednesday, there were a few rumours flying around that ­ Everton might be interested in signing me. I took no notice of it, but clearly some people did. ­Delivered in a brown envelope, one note contained a short, sharp message for me.

        "LISTEN YOU HORRIBLE BLACK TT, COME ­ANYWHERE NEAR EVERTON AND YOU’LL GET YOUR F***G BACK BROKE YOU SLUT SGGING BAG OF N**R S**T. BE WARNED"
      
Racism in this country has got better since I received that ­message, but it has clearly not gone away. It is depressing that racial abuse of players still goes on, but it’s great that people like Raheem Sterling have a big enough profile to make a stand and speak out about it.
I found myself unable to sleep at night.
Getting jeered at in the street when out Christmas shopping brought home what a lot of the Leicester fans might have been thinking of me.
I’d wake up in the early hours and sit for hours in a hanging basket chair which looked out on to the road below, desperately hoping I would feel tired and want to sleep, but it didn’t happen.
I explained the whole thing to the club doctor, who opened a drawer and took out a mini flip-chart.
If my answer to each question was ‘Yes’ I should flip the page and keep going until I came to a question where my answer would be ‘No’.
There were about six questions in all, until I found myself staring at the final page. This time, it wasn’t a question: It was a clear statement.
“You are suffering from depression.”
I couldn’t believe what I’d just read. “Come on, doc – there’s no way I’ve got depression. I just can’t sleep at night.”
Having a physical injury was one thing, but something like depression was a mental thing, and to so many people in the game admitting to something like that would have been seen as a weakness in a player.
Managers, coaches, even other players would have looked on you as being a bit soft. Someone who wasn’t tough enough and couldn’t handle the pressure of being a professional footballer.
Amazing as it might seem now, depression would not have been taken seriously by so many in the game back then.
As I sat in the Wembley dressing room, desperately trying to take in everything that was happening around me, I noticed a pile of yellow envelopes.
They were good luck telegrams from family and friends, little messages that meant a lot because they gave you a nice mental boost before the biggest game of your life.
The telegrams were one of the things that made the FA Cup final so special.
Like all the other players, I began to go through the yellow envelopes handed to me – and then I opened one that made me feel incredibly emotional.
To this day, it still has the same effect.
“Mark, I’m the proudest man in Stoke-on-Trent,” it read. “I’m glad you realised your dream. Be a winner.”
The telegram came from my old geography teacher at Maryhill Comprehensive school in the Potteries, Mr Arkle.
One day, after a lesson, he went round everyone in the class asking us all the simple question: What do you want to do when you leave school?
“Play football, sir,” I told him. “I want to be a professional footballer.”
Everyone in the class began to laugh. Mr Arkle clearly thought I was playing the cheeky kid in front of my classmates, but I was deadly serious. I even began practising how I would sign my autograph.
Happily, that dream became a reality. It was by no means easy, but getting to that FA Cup final with Crystal Palace in 1990 seemed to make it all worthwhile.
I thought was going to get sent off in the 1993 FA Cup final replay for Sheffield Wednesday.
Tony Adams didn’t take long to let me know he was there. Very early on, he came clattering into me from behind.
I wanted to lay down a marker and let Arsenal ’s centre-backs know they weren’t the only ones who were capable of dishing it out.
A little later, as I jumped, I knew Andy Linighan was going to come steaming in to try and win a header.
I had a quick glance over my shoulder to see where Andy was, stuck out my arm and smashed him in the nose with my elbow.
I’d done it deliberately, and it soon became obvious he’d broken his nose.
When the referee, Keren Barratt, came over I thought I was gone – but I got away with it.
With literally seconds of the game remaining, and it looked as if we might be heading to penalties, Linighan outjumped me and scored the winner.
A couple of days later, I rang Andy. “Listen, it’s about your nose,” I started to say, but he he began laughing and told me not to worry about it.
