
# A modelling workshop for little ones who love the spotlight

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:43:00+00:00**

Author: **Kelly Johnstone**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/kids/421702-a-modelling-workshop-for-little-ones-who-love-the-spotlight)

Ministry of Stars is hosting workshops for kids who want to model.Got a little one who loves the spotlight? Or a teen who longs to strut their stuff on the catwalk? Ministry of Stars is hosting modelling workshops for kids between five and 16.Let them channel their inner Gigi Hadid as they are taught how to pose perfectly for photos and to sashay down the runway in true Adrianna Lima style.But it's not all about the swagger and the pouting. Hosted by former Miss India, Prachi Mishra, mini wannabe supermodels will also learn all about style, self-presentation and etiquette giving them the insider know-how when it comes to making it in front of the camera.At the end of the workshop, proud parents will be invited along to watch their fabulous fashionistas take part in a live fashion catwalk showPlus the gorgeous graduates will also receive a professional photo shoot (one for the picture walls mums and dads), their own swanky portfolio showcasing all their best work and a certificate to show all their friends.Let's see if they can walk the walk.Dhs500. Workshops: Fri Dec 13 & Sat Dec 14. Fri Dec 13 10am-12pm (kids five-eight), 2pm-4pm (kids nine-12), Sat Dec 14 10am-12pm (kids 13-16).Fashion show prep: Sun Dec 15 11am-5pm. Fashion show: Sun Dec 15 6pm. (050 5974372).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
