
# Toddler caught having stolen bike from nursery tells gran he bought it on Amazon

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:34:04+00:00**

Author: **Luke Matthews, Kathleen Speirs, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/luke-matthews/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/toddler-caught-having-stolen-bike-20801395)

We all told a few white lies when we were little to try and get our own way - but it appears technology is making childish fibs far more brazen.
With Christmas just around the corner, little Louis Henderson from Edinburgh already decided he would be asking for a balance bike for toddlers from Father Christmas when the big day came round.
So when his mum Shannon Turnbull and grandmother Tracey Patterson took him to a Halloween party at nursery on Thursday and Louis spotted a pink and purple bike outside the door, he made sure to let everyone know he wanted one 'just like that', as reported in the Daily Record .
The youngster headed happily into the party dressed as Woody from Toy Story but it was when Tracey returned to collect her grandchild later on that they 'couldn't believe what happened'.
 
Louis strolled out of the Halloween bash wheeling the pink and purple balance bike he had spotted earlier by his side.
After telling his gran the bike belonged to him, suspicious Tracey put the bike into the back of the car and decided to interrogate the youngster on his first big purchase.
When pressed as to where the wheels had come from, Louis insisted it had been delivered by Amazon and he had ridden it to nursery himself that very morning.
His well-constructed story begins to fall apart when he has to look down to confirm the colour of the bike he had 'ordered' - and still gets it wrong.
 
Tracey then asks if it would match the description of a missing bike from the nursery and Louis simply shrugs and says no, all while still casually clutching his apple.
Not convinced by his online shopping spree, Tracey immediately sent the damning footage to his mum.
"I got home from work at 7pm that night," said Shannon, 23. "By that point Louis had been to his second Halloween party.
"He went silent when I pulled him up then said, 'I was just borrowing it from nursery'.
"Kids think they can get away with it."
 
"I posted the clip on Twitter to show my friends because Louis is such a character and they find him hilarious.
"I did not think it would get so much attention.
"It's crazy but I think a lot of parents can relate to children telling lies but acting so innocent.
"I called the nursery straight away to let them know.
"The bike is being kept safe in a cupboard and is going back on Monday."
Hopefully Santa can overlook Louis' misdemeanour and deliver his very own balance bike come December 25.
