
# Lady Gaga opens up about her mental health: 'I was a cutter for a long time'

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:38:13+00:00**

Author: **Talia Kaplan**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/lady-gaga-mental-health-oprah-cutter)

Lady Gaga opened up about her mental health struggles in a new interview.
In the interview with Oprah Winfrey, featured in Elle Magazine’s December issue, the singer -- who has been about open her struggles in the past -- said: "I’ve actually not opened up very much about this, but I think it’s an important thing for people to know and hear: I was a cutter for a long time.”
“The only way that I was able to stop cutting and self-harming myself was to realize that what I was doing was trying to show people that I was in pain instead of telling them and asking for help," she said.

        
          LADY GAGA'S MOTHER OPENS UP ABOUT THE SINGER'S YOUNGER DAYS: 'SHE WENT THROUGH A LOT OF DIFFICULT TIMES'
        
      
Gaga, 33, and her mother have both gone on to become outspoken advocates of mental health.
“I was raped when I was 19 years old, repeatedly,” Gaga told Oprah. “I have been traumatized in a variety of ways by my career over the years from many different things, but I survived, and I’ve kept going.”
During the interview, Gaga, whose name is Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta, said she suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and chronic pain.
“Neuropathic pain trauma response is a weekly part of my life," she said. "I’m on medication; I have several doctors. This is how I survive."
“But you know what, Oprah? I kept going, and that kid out there or even that adult out there who’s been through so much, I want them to know that they can keep going, and they can survive, and they can win their Oscar,” she added.
Gaga won an Academy Award for best original song this year for the song “Shallow” from the film "A Star is Born." She starred in the movie with actor Bradley Cooper.
Gaga told Oprah that telling someone she was having the urge to hurt herself defused the situation.
“I then had someone next to me saying, ‘You don’t have to show me. Just tell me: What are you feeling right now?’ And then I could just tell my story,” Gaga said. “I say that with a lot of humility and strength; I’m very grateful that I don’t do it anymore, and I wish to not glamorize it.”
