
# Trump impeachment: President fumes at report attorney general refused to endorse his Ukraine call

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:34:00+00:00**

Author: **Jane Dalton**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/trump-lashes-over-report-attorney-123400454.html)

Donald Trump has angrily denied a report by The Washington Post that Attorney General William Barr refused his request to clear him of breaking the law in a telephone call with Ukraine‘s president.
“The story was a Fake Washington Post con job with an ‘anonymous’ source that doesn’t exist,” he wrote on Twitter on Thursday.
“Just read the Transcript. The Justice Department already ruled that the call was good. We don’t have freedom of the press!”
And branding the impeachment inquiry "a hoax", he called for it to be ended immediately.
Mr Trump had asked Mr Barr to declare that the US president had not broken any laws when he spoke by phone to Volodymyr Zelenskiy, the newspaper reported.
During the call, which is at the heart of the impeachment inquiry, the US leader pressed his Ukrainian counterpart to investigate a political rival, Democratic former vice president Joe Biden and his son Hunter, but Mr Barr ultimately declined to do so, people familiar with the matter told The Washington Post.
However, Mr Trump tweeted: “Bill Barr did not decline my request to talk about Ukraine,” and took a swipe at the press.
He added: “The degenerate Washington Post MADE UP the story about me asking Bill Barr to hold a news conference. Never happened, and there were no sources!”
In a string of tweets, he went on: "Based on the information released last night about the Fake Whistleblowers attorney, the Impeachment Hoax should be ended IMMEDIATELY! There is no case, except against the other side!"
Users promptly disagreed with his attacks on the media. Nick Jack Pappas, a comedy writer, responded: “We do have freedom of the press, actually. It’s in the Constitution, that thing you’ve never read.
“Should we believe experienced journalists or the guy who has lied over 14,000 times since he took office? Thank God we still have a free press.”
Hours earlier, Mr Trump had written: “The story in the Amazon Washington Post, of course picked up by Fake News CNN, saying ‘President Trump asked for AG Barr to host a news conference clearing him on Ukraine,’ is totally untrue and just another FAKE NEWS story with anonymous sources that don’t exist.”
