
# Factory activity slows to 2-year low in October

Published at: **2019-11-02T02:17:29+00:00**

Author: **TNN**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/factory-activity-slows-to-2-year-low-in-oct/articleshow/71861011.cms)

NEW DELHI: Factory activity slowed to its lowest level in two years in October as orders softened and production remained sluggish, a survey showed on Friday, adding to the string of dismal data and posing a challenge for policymakers to reverse the slowdown.
The IHS Markit India manufacturing PMI (Purchasing Managers Index) fell from 51.4 in September to a two-year low of 50.6 in October. The 50 point mark separates expansion from contraction.
Latest data showed the eight core sectors, spanning coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement and electricity, contracted 5.2% in September, its sharpest decline in the 2011-12 series. This was lower than the upwardly revised 0.1% in August and below 4.3% in September 2018.
The survey showed job creation softened to a six-month low, while companies were reluctant to hold excess stock and lowered input buying in response. Business confidence slipped to its lowest level in over two-and-a-half years. In another sign of subdued growth conditions, input costs declined for the first time in over four years.
"Weakening demand had a domino effect in the manufacturing industry, knocking down rates of increase in production, employment and business sentiment. With quantities of purchases contracting for the third month in a row, input costs fell for the first time in over four years during October," said Pollyanna de Lima, principal economist at IHS Markit.
"Following five successive cuts to India's benchmark rate, and an apparent lag in how quickly this feeds through to consumers, the impending lowering of commercial lending rates could potentially revive private consumption and help to shift growth higher as we approach the year-end," said Lima.
Economists expect RBI to cut interest rates again when it reviews monetary policy in December to boost growth. The measures unveiled by the government to counter the slowdown are also expected to add to growth in months ahead.
