
# 'Never happened': Hannity denies claim Pompeo called about 'proof' of allegations against Ukraine ambassador

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:15:07+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Chaitin**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/never-happened-hannity-denies-claim-pompeo-called-about-proof-of-allegations-against-ukraine-ambassador)

Fox News host Sean Hannity shot back at a claim that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo sought his input in an effort to remove the United States envoy to Ukraine.
The House Intelligence Committee released on Monday the transcript of former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch's impeachment testimony, showing that she believed Pompeo or "somebody around him" reached out to Hannity on allegations that she was undermining President Trump.
Hannity called this claim "fake news."
"Apparently, I’m being accused of making some kind of allegations against the ambassador and that Secretary Pompeo or someone from the State Department called me about it. No, that never happened. That'd be fake news," Hannity said on his evening show.
"The ambassador was barely ever mentioned on our show, we went back and looked. I don’t know anything about this woman, to be honest. Her name came up a few times on the show. She was an Obama holdover. I did ask one question about a news report if she was involved in something. It was a question. We do news here. I never talked to Secretary Pompeo about Ukraine. I never talked to anyone at the State Department about this ambassador," he said.
