
# We Are Made of Diamond Stuff by Isabel Waidner review – cutting edge

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:22+00:00**

Author: **Jude Cook**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2019/nov/06/we-are-made-of-diamond-stuff-isabel-waidner-review)


        Shortlisted for the Goldsmiths prize, this innovative state-of-the-nation novel shows razor-sharp wit and rage
      
Isabel Waidner’s Goldsmiths prize-shortlisted second novel is a dizzying 113-page disquisition on working-class culture, queerness, race and vanished empire. Set largely in a “no-star hotel” in Ryde on the Isle of Wight, it crackles with sly subversive wit and rage at the inequities of life in contemporary Britain.
In a series of surreal episodes, the unnamed narrator, who we are told is an “EU national”, and Shae, described as “a second-generation economic migrant”, endure minimum-wage work at the hotel, while joyously revelling in their otherness. Shae is “working class and also queer (there’s no hiding it)”. They (as Shae, the narrator and Waidner all prefer to be identified) are “looking for their parent”, while the narrator is preparing to take the Life in the UK test, an ordeal replete with trick questions (“Who wrote ‘The Daffodil?’”).
Along the way, there are run-ins with gay Ukip activists, and local youths with Staffies “vaping outside Wimpy”. The narrator and Shae also struggle with fantastical, shapeshifting creatures, such as a group of “ecological refugees (the polar bears) and African elopers I mean antelopes (the reeboks)”, and a “lypard”, an allusion to William Blake’s “The Tyger”, one of four canonical poems in the Life in the UK test. The hotel’s tyrannical manager, House Mother Normal, has migrated from BS Johnson’s radical eponymous novel of 1971. None of which seems anomalous in a book that deliberately uses intertextuality, the lives of marginalised communities and intersectional discourse as a form of cultural resistance.
This might make the novel appear overly earnest, yet its Situationist delight in disrupting normative society is infectious. A sense of free association is everywhere, giving the prose a ludic whimsicality that nevertheless conceals a knuckle-duster. As the narrator comments, on reading a scene of bestiality by BS Johnson: “Ghastly, really, but funny. Funny’s important … (Some BS there, B.S.?)” Or on their resemblance to the character Eleven from the Netflix series Stranger Things: “I’m giving off child with supernatural abilities levels of outsider weirdness.”
When the hotel is visited by officers from the Isle of Wight Immigration Enforcement Unit, the narrator uses these powers to lasso them. The novel ends with entries from Sandown Zoo’s Visitors’ Book, a “slum” zoo that comes to stand for the UK itself post EU referendum: “This is a con”; “Desolate”; “Heartbreaking”.
In a recent interview, Waidner said they were “against the idea that formally innovative literature now should be this rarefied thing, of interest to an elite readership”. We Are Made of Diamond Stuff might be the most engaging state-of-the-nation fiction since Anthony Cartwright’s Brexit novel, The Cut. Daringly experimental, this is the cutting edge.
