
# Saracens left devastated by guilty verdict but others have little sympathy

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:12:03+00:00**

Author: **Alex Spink, https://www.facebook.com/alexspinkmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/saracens-left-devastated-guilty-verdict-20821834)

It was meant to be the day of Owen Farrell’s dreams - instead it turned into the stuff of nightmares.
Tuesday had been booked for a victory parade in central London, at which the England captain would show off the World Cup.
Then South Africa won the final, the open top bus tour was quickly cancelled and onto its place in the calendar Premiership Rugby dropped a bombshell.
Farrell and eight of his Saracens club mates were starting their first full day at home after a physically and emotionally draining two months in Japan, when the first shockwaves were felt.
  
English club chiefs announced the Premiership champions had been handed a 35-point deduction and fined £5.36 million for breaching salary cap regulations in the past three seasons.
The punishment follows an investigation into business partnerships between chairman Nigel Wray and some of the club's players.
Wray owns businesses with Farrell, Billy and Mako Vunipola and Richard Wigglesworth - England stars who have helped Sarries win seven domestic and European titles in five years.
 
As recently as June the North Londoners were hailed as the greatest club side of all time. Now some will think differently.
“Unlucky,” tweeted ex-Bath star James Wilson. “Over paying your players and then having to pay that bill... Was it worth it all? To be best in Europe over the last few seasons? To now be officially labeled cheats?”
Such words will deeply wound Wray, who has done more than any individual to try to make club rugby viable in England in the 25 years since the game at the top end officially turned professional.
 
His personal investment, which easily tops £40 million, has gone into community projects which include Saracens High School - the first pro sports club to open a mainstream school.
“I have put my heart and soul into the game I love, this is absolutely devastating,” he said. “It feels like the rug is being completely pulled out from under our feet.”
It is not only Saracens who have benefitted on the pitch, the England squad is built on its Sarries spine - with eight of the 23-man World Cup final squad as well as Eddie Jones and Steve Borthwick.
 
In a candid interview in May, Wray told me he could understand people thinking his co-investment arrangements with some of his highest profile players was a way round the wage cap.
“But there is a huge difference between investment - where the player can lose money, we can lose money - and salary,” he said. “To me that’s a most important point.”
That, as it has turned out, is a matter of opinion.
 
“The career of a rugby player might end tomorrow,” he continued. “We have to help them build a much better tomorrow. Hopefully that time will be in their mid-30s but at some stage players will fall off a cliff.
“Their salary will go down by 90 per cent. They will lose the ‘family’ they have been with for 15 years. We’ve got to work at giving them a better future. And that’s what we do and will continue to do.”
Time will tell on that too, with Tony Rowe, chairman of an Exeter club beaten in the past two finals by Saracens, calling for them to be suspended from the league until they can prove their squad is within the salary cap.
 
Saracens say they will appeal which means all sanctions are lifted until that process is completed in the New Year. They insist they won’t be “forced” to sell players, nor are they barred from signing new players.
But is is hard to see how change is avoidable given their squad is, if anything, stronger than that found to have breached the cap.
English rugby was hoping to build on the excitement of the World Cup. Instead it is battling to preserve the integrity of its premier competition.
