
# Organ donations: What you can do to help save a life

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:41:36+00:00**

Author: **Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/organ-donations-what-you-can-do-to-help-save-a-life)

Saving the life of a fellow Canadian can be as easy as checking a box online or saying yes to being an organ donor when you renew your driver’s license. But, that’s just the beginning for those wanting to make a difference.

        Deceased donations
      
In Alberta, individuals over the age of 18 can register their intent to become an organ or tissue donor when they die by using the Alberta Organ and Tissue Donation Registry. (Go to myhealth.alberta.ca online and search organ donation registry.)  As well, agents and provincial registries are required to ask the donor question when clients are renewing a driver’s licence or identification card.
For those who have Alberta Health Cards issued prior to 2018, the back of the card can be signed (with a witness) to declare their intention to donate.
The Alberta registry has been integrated into the province’s health care system through the use of donor co-ordinators. If a person has declared his or her intent to donate and is in a position to be considered for organ or tissue donation, a co-ordinator will discuss it with family members, who ultimately make the final decision.
Each deceased donor can provide up to eight organs (both lungs, both kidneys, liver, heart, pancreas, intestines), while donated tissues can benefit up to 75 individuals.

        Living donations
      
The vast majority of living organ donors spares one of their two functioning kidneys to a person in need, though living liver donations also occur to a lesser extent.
In most cases, family members or acquaintances donate a living organ if they’re healthy enough to safely act as a donor. Once a viable donor is found, transplant programs in both Calgary and Edmonton perform the surgeries for kidneys, while live liver transplants are only performed in Edmonton.
There’s also been a rise in so-called altruistic donors, who are willing to share their organs with a stranger. Both the Kidney Foundation of Canada and Canadian Blood Services can advise prospective living donors on where to turn, while Alberta Health can connect donors to local living donor programs.
Canadian Blood Services also operates the Kidney Paired Donation Program, an inter-provincial initiative that maintains prospective donors in a registry if they aren’t a compatible match for their intended recipient. Since January 2009, some 500 living donors across Canada have entered the KPD program, including 90 anonymous donors who joined the program without a specific recipient in mind. Non-directed, anonymous donations are responsible for more than two-thirds of the transplants in the KPD program, and all patients with a match have received a transplant in less than a year.
The Living Donor Services Program – Edmonton: Phone 780-407-8698; toll free 1-866-253-6833; email: livingdonors@ahs.ca.
Southern Alberta Transplant Program – Calgary: Phone 403-944-4635.
More information on kidney health is available from the Kidney Foundation of Canada: www.kidney.ca; 780-451-6900 or 403-255-6108.
More information on liver health is available from the Canadian Liver Foundation: www.liver.ca; 403-276-3390 or 1-800-563-5483.
Details about Green Shirt Day and Logan Boulet are at greenshirtday.ca.

        Stem cell donations
      
Stem cell transplants replace a patient’s unhealthy stem cells with a donor’s healthy ones, and can be used to treat cancers and other diseases. The three sources of stem cells are from bone marrow, peripheral (circulating) blood and umbilical cord blood.
Prior to any donation, the donor will undergo a comprehensive health assessment before undergoing the procedure. Peripheral blood stem cell donation only requires blood to be drawn from a needle in hospital following five days of under-the-skin injections to boost the number of blood cells in the bloodstream.
Bone marrow donations are performed under anesthesia, with hollow needles used to withdraw stem cells from bone marrow in the back of pelvic bones. The procedure lasts between 45 to 90 minutes and the marrow replenishes itself in four to six weeks.
Those who wish to become a stem cell donor can call Canadian Blood Services at 1-888-2-DONATE (1-888-236-6283) or by visiting the agency’s website at blood.ca.
