
# Paul Pogba was 'close' to Man Utd exit after late transfer offer from PSG

Published at: **2019-11-01T03:56:15+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/paul-pogba-close-man-utd-20785923)

Paul Pogba was reportedly close to completing a surprise move to Paris Saint-Germain during the summer, despite interest from Real Madrid .
The Manchester United star had been heavily linked with a move away from Old Trafford during the transfer window, with Los Blancos believed to be the favourites to complete the deal.
However, other teams including Juventus were also thought to be interested, and Sport Italia (via SPORT ) now reports that PSG were also a possible destination for the 26-year-old.
According to the Italian publication, Pogba's agent Mino Raiola was close to taking the World Cup winner to the French champions to link up with international team-mate Kylian Mbappe.
But it is claimed that the move did not happen after Marco Verratti - another of Raiola's clients - extended his current contract until 2024.
Pogba emerged as a leading target for Real Madrid, with manager Zinedine Zidane known to be a big fan of the midfielder.
Although there was also reported interest from Italy, the Bernabeu was understood to be the favoured destination of the Frenchman, who publicly indicated his desire to leave United at the start of the summer.
However, the move never materialised after Premier League club refused to budge on their £150million valuation of a player they bought for £89m in 2016.
Although he ended up remaining in Manchester, Pogba has rarely featured for United this season due to an ankle injury he sustained in August.
He has played just six games in all competitions for United this season and has been out of action since the 1-1 draw with Arsenal on September 30.
With Solskjaer confirming that the Frenchman is likely to be sidelined until December, the Red Devils' boss backed Fred to fill the void in midfield until his return.
"Fred will probably take Paul's position for a while now," he said before the 2-1 Carabao Cup win over Chelsea on Wednesday.
"There's no use talking about who's not going to be here for a long, long time because he's not going to come on the pitch and help us until he's fit.
"Paul's been brilliant and he is a creative midfielder that we need, but then it is up to the others to step up."
