
# Sheriff: Ten People Faked Robbery with Likely Motive to Get Green Cards

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:42:02+00:00**

Author: **Neil Munro**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/05/sheriff-ten-people-faked-restaurant-robbery-with-likely-motive-to-get-green-cards/)

But the October 19 robbery at Bob’s Burgers n’ Teriyakis was just a daring scam by ten illegals to snatch U visas, green cards, and citizenship from the federal government, said county Sheriff Mitzi Johanknecht, who described the claimed robbery. “Today I can confirm to you; it was all a lie … Every employee present that evening, every customer participated in a deliberate hoax.”
She continued:
“I don’t recall a time where I’ve seen ten people band together to form a story and present it to individuals whose very job is to note consistencies and inconsistencies, whose very job it is to flesh out and flesh out the truth,” SeaTac Police Chief Jon Mattsen told Q13 Fox.
King County is a sanctuary jurisdiction, so it includes a growing population of illegals in service jobs. That population aids business owners and landlords because it pushes down wages and drives up rents for blue-collar Americans.
The owner of the restaurant described the alleged robbery to KOMO News on October 21:
It is unclear if the county will try to hand over the ten migrants to a federal agency for deportation.
The scam spotlights the growing fraud in the U visa program, which offers green cards and citizenship to people who testify against criminals in cases, such as sexual abuse of a child or spousal abuse. Each year, 10,000 U visas are given to people who claim to be victims of crimes, but the number of requests for U visas has skyrocketed as immigration lawyers have tried to guide their paying clients around the tighter enforcement rules set by President Donald Trump.
In 2016, the backlog for U visa requests was 64,000. The waiting list reached 250,000 by the end of 2019. The annual award of 10,000 U visas does not include the grant of U visas to the alleged victims’ spouses and children.
In June 2017, Breitbart News reported:
“The dirty little secret is that U-visa fraud and abuse is rampant nationwide, especially in sanctuary jurisdictions,” said Cody Brown, an attorney who represents victims of U visa fraud and who recently launched uvisafraud.com to track this growing problem. He continued:
A September 2019 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) reported that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) agency:
The fraud is sometimes conducted on a large scale, according to the GAO:
Moreover, this hugely valuable prize of citizenship creates a temptation for people to allow crime to take place so they can report those crimes to get green cards. In October, a Colorado lawyer tried to defend his illegal-immigrant client from a rape charge by saying the victim’s mother had a hidden incentive:
On August 2, officials at the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency announced a reform to curb suspected fraud:
The deport-while-waiting rule allows officials to deport applicants, so reducing the incentive for migrants to make false claims about crimes in order to get a work permit.
Immigration lawyers defended the fraud-ridden program:
The Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles is now suing the government to widen the U visa route into the United States, according to Spectrum News:
Government officials are also trying to reduce the growing fraud by foreign graduates seeking to get work permits for white-collar jobs:
