
# Football transfer rumours: Lautaro Martínez to Manchester United?

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:41:44+00:00**

Author: **Ben Fisher**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/01/football-transfer-rumours-lautaro-martinez-to-manchester-united)


        Today’s fluff is getting its act together
      
In the summer, while dotting the i’s and crossing the t’s on deals for Rodri and João Cancelo, it seems Manchester City also had officials making notes in sleepy Cesena. It was there where a Phil Foden-less England crashed out of the Under-21 European Championship following a 4-2 defeat by Romania, in which Florinel Coman stole the show, scoring twice. Coman is no relation to Kingsley but he has, rather handily, been compared to another France whizz, Kylian Mbappé, by the Steaua Bucharest owner George ‘Gigi’ Becali. City, as well as West Ham and Roma, like what they have seen.
Coman, who has since made his senior bow for Romania, is a graduate of the Gheorghe Hagi academy. Hagi’s son, Ianis, earned a big-money move not to supposed suitors Liverpool or Real Madrid but Belgian side Genk on the back of a dazzling tournament, while Internazionale’s George Puscas sealed a dream switch to, er, Reading. Coman could follow suit, with the 21-year-old winger guaranteed a move to a mid-ranking Serie A side if nothing else.
Across town, Manchester United are sniffing around Inter’s Lautaro Martínez but the forward will not come cheap. That might entice those at Old Trafford more than anything but United will not get much change out of £100m for the Argentinian. Martínez has been banging in the goals for Antonio Conte’s side, scoring nine in 14 appearances for the Serie A side this season. Shelling out such a fee might be doable if Roma give the green light to turn Chris Smalling’s loan into a permanent £18m deal.
Crystal Palace may be turning heads with their grand academy plans but they also have their eyes set on a January move for Liverpool’s former Chelsea youngster Rhian Brewster. The 19-year-old has no shortage of admirers but, should Liverpool make the striker available for a short-term loan, Palace hope to head the queue. Championship sides Swansea and Bristol City are also believed to be keen.
Norwich City are lining up a move for Spartak Moscow’s 21-year-old midfielder Alex Kral while, after watching Liverpool’s teenagers take the Carabao Cup by storm – well, edging out Arsenal on penalties – Everton have fast-tracked the development of 16-year-old Tyler Onyango, with the midfielder joining up with David Unsworth’s under-23s.
