
# Vettel says Ferrari are aiming for three wins to end the season

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Newton**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49156/vettel-says-ferrari-are-aiming-for-three-wins-to-end-the-season.html)


        Sebastian Vettel says that Ferrari have the capability to win every race from now until the end of the season as they look to wrestle back the initiative from Mercedes, who have won three on the bounce recently. Ferrari returned after the summer break with the quicker car and have taken every pole position since Belgium, but it's been their main rivals who have taken wins at the Russian, Japanese and Mexican Grands Prix.
      
Ferrari have not had a great season, taking only three victories and being off the pace of Mercedes for most of the year. Strategy has also let them down on multiple occasions but Vettel is looking to finish on a positive note as F1 heads into the off-season.
He said ahead at a Ferrari media meet-up: “We have shown that we are very quick in qualifying, we are at the same level or just a little bit behind our main competitors and this means that, unless everything goes perfectly, it’s hard to stay in front.

        “In Russia, if my car had not had a problem, we’d have probably finished first and second. We all know what happened on the first lap in Japan, while in Mexico, Lewis had a better pace and I don’t think it had anything to do with the strategy.
      

        “It’s never easy to make a judgement before going out on track, but we have shown that we can be competitive on every sort of track. The aim, therefore, can only be to try and win every race from now to the end of the season."
      
