
# How can the land of K-pop fail to innovate?

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:00:47+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Business Times](https://www.businesstimes.com.sg/asean-business/johnson-johnson-partners-lazada-to-support-emerging-south-east-asia-brands)


        Vivienne Tay
        vtay@sph.com.sg
        @VivienneTayBT
      
NOVEMBER 07, 2019 - 11:00 AM
CONSUMER group Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health (J&J) and Lazada Group have partnered to incubate emerging brands in South-east Asia and China.
Both companies will help these brands reach and engage more Chinese consumers by leveraging J&J’s market insights and offline distribution channels, and e-commerce player Lazada’s regional ecosystem.
Tim Deng, Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health China managing director, said the partnership will serve as a gateway to "bring out" local China brands to reach South-east Asian consumers. At the same time, it would "bring in" South-east Asian products to "inspire Chinese consumers".
"In addition, we will support a vibrant ecosystem of startups and entrepreneurs in the Belt and Road Initiative region with access to the world-class open innovation expertise within the Johnson & Johnson global network," Mr Deng added.
Qian Yi, general manager of Lazada Cross-Border business, said that through the partnership, the connectivity between the South-east Asia market and Chinese consumers can be further strengthened, while also bringing more quality products and services to China from South-east Asia.
Terms & conditions Sign up
This will be done by utilising consumer insights, digital marketing expertise and channel expansion model.
Lazada is the South-east Asia flagship platform of Alibaba Group.
Written by:  Vivienne Tayvtay@sph.com.sg@VivienneTayBT
