
# Devastated bar workers at Glasgow's Art school union lose jobs before Christmas

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **John Ferguson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/john-ferguson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/devastated-glasgow-art-school-bar-20799427)

Staff at Glasgow’s Art School union have been put out of a job over Christmas.
Management at the historic venue have said they are reducing ­“commercial business to a minimum” in a bid to solve a financial crisis.
The Glasgow School of Art Students Association (GSASA), which runs the city centre venue, has struggled to survive since fire destroyed the ­Mackintosh building across the road in June 2018.
Workers and students held a demonstration against the move on Thursday.
Bryan Simpson, of Unite the Union, said: “Our members at The Art School bar were joined by ­students across the campus and hospitality workers from around Glasgow.
“Despite previous commitments to ensure staff guaranteed hours per week, the GSASA issued an email on Thursday confirming that they cannot guarantee any hours at all to staff and that the venue will effectively close at least until New Year.
“This is devastating news for our members, who will not have money to live.”
The Mackintosh teaching ­building was undergoing a ­£35million restoration following a 2014 fire when it was destroyed last year.
The union is located across the road in the city’s Garnethill area.
 
A GSASA spokesman said: “There will be a period of reduction of ­commercial business to a minimum and staff with contracted hours will be retained, while other affected staff will receive a goodwill ­ex-gratia payment of one week’s pay.
“All alternative avenues were ­considered extensively before this decision was made.
“These measures will guarantee the GSASA space remains a resource for students in future.”
During a debate of a report into the blazes last week, Tory MSP Adam Tomkins called for the ­ownership of the Mackintosh ­building to be stripped from GSA bosses.
Holyrood’s culture committee previously criticised management for not giving enough priority to safeguarding the building.
