
# Blackcraig Windfarm Community Fund hands out nearly £200,000 in first round of awards

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:08:18+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Norris**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/blackcraig-windfarm-community-fund-hands-20817614)

Campaigners aiming to make New Galloway Town Hall fully accessible to all have received a huge cash boost.
Local Initiatives in New Galloway (LING) has netted £25,000 to install a lift in the building.
The windfall was among 26 awards announced under the new Blackcraig Windfarm Community Fund.
Delighted LING secretary Ann Glaister was “thrilled” at the news.
She said: “There are lots of processes to go through first like asset transfer and securing matched funding.
“But let’s hope this is a sign that the wind is in our sails. It’s a good start.”
In total, more than £191,000 was distributed across the wider Glenkens and district area.
Projects involving young people, schools and nurseries also featured high on the list of successful bidders.
Springholm Playgroup received £2,000 for running costs and Springholm Parent Council £3,500 for music tuition.
 
Playgroup manager Nikki Smith said: “We are absolutely delighted. This will be really beneficial for all the kids and the community.
“And as a community nursery we would welcome new families from within the area.”
Crossmichael and Parton Playgroup landed £10,000 for an outdoor classroom and Friends of Dalry School £8,500 towards a new climbing frame.
The Glenkens and District Trust made the awards following a rigorous selection process.
GDT chairman Fiona Smith said: “We were delighted with the quality of the applications and the thought and preparation that had gone into them.
“This fund has been anticipated for a long time and there was clearly considerable pent up demand for the funds.”
Seb Watson of Blackcraig Wind Farm (Scotland) Ltd said: “It’s really inspiring to see such a range of community projects coming forward.
“We’re excited to see how these 26 Blackcraig wind farm grants will help develop and deliver a great range of community activity.
“We hope the benefit reaches deep into the communities and really does make a difference.”
Elsewhere, Dalry Town Hall management committee secured £13,600 for the CatStrand youth film group to make a short film about the town’s rich history.
 
Hall committee spokesperson James Reid said: “We are thrilled to receive this grant from Blackcraig Wind Farm Community Fund which will enable us to celebrate and share the history of St. John’s Town of Dalry and the Glenkens area.
“We look forward to working with local residents to create a short video presentation about the Pentland Rising for showing to our visitors.”
And Collaborative Outdoor Nuture Growing Awareness Glenkens won £4,000 to help local children explore and learn about their local area.
Spokesperson Mary Smith said: “This will be instrumental in supporting us to get off the ground.
“It will enable us to provide opportunities for young people in the Glenkens to participate in high quality outdoor education experiences.”
Other awards included £6,000 for new fire doors for Balmaclellan Hall and £15,000 for roof replacement and solar panels on the men’s shed in Balmaclellan.
Glenkens Community and Arts Trust received £25,000 and Crossmichael Memorial Hall £19,227 for a new floor.
The community fund is administered by grant-making charity Foundation Scotland.
GDT will be making plans for opening the fund again in 2020.

        More information will be available in due course.
      
