
# Aberdeen’s bid to reinvent itself falls between a rock and a hard place

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:00:22+00:00**

Author: **Rowan Moore**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/2019/nov/02/aberdeen-p-and-j-live-art-gallery-revamp-bid-to-reinvent-city)


        The granite city’s multimillion-pound events centre and revamped art gallery are practical and ambitious – but can they transcend mere function?
      
How does an oil town plan for life when the hydrocarbons run out? Dubai, famously, has its response – build archipelagos and super-tall buildings in memorable shapes and open your arms to financial services and tourism. Aberdeen, less spectacular but still aspirational, has its own version. It is spending about a billion pounds, with the help of bonds issued on the stock exchange, on a portfolio of desirables for the self-respecting modern city: upgrading the public realm, renovating and expanding its art gallery, building a giant centre for entertainment and conventions out near the airport.
It hasn’t been a smooth ride. A planned £140m makeover of Union Terrace Gardens, a park in the centre of the city, by Diller Scofidio + Renfro, co-authors of the famous High Line park in New York, foundered on accusations of extravagance and vainglory. The art gallery renovation has run late. It was also attacked before building work started by local councillors, for the “corporate vandalism” of removing a marble staircase from its grade-A listed building and for a copper-clad rooftop extension that they called “a bulky, ballooning bahookie” and a “tattie shed”. Bahookie, for those who don’t know, is Scottish slang for bum.
Now, though, the plans are coming to fruition. A renovation of Union Terrace Gardens, more modest than the earlier plan, is under way. The Event Complex Aberdeen (TECA), now renamed the P&J Live after the local paper (the Press and Journal), has been running since September, with a programme that includes Elton John, Michael Bublé, Jack Whitehall and the BBC’s Sports Personality of the Year awards show. The art gallery was due to reopen yesterday after a four-year closure.
The work at the gallery, with a total cost of £34.6m, is designed by Hoskins Architects, the practice of the Edinburgh-born, Glasgow-based architect Gareth Hoskins, who died in 2016 aged 48. Their proposal, they say, is to make the original building, a Renaissance-style work built in stages from the 1880s to the 1920s, more accessible, as well as to increase exhibition space. By “accessible”, they mean not only that wheelchair users can now enter the building without encountering any steps, and can reach the upper floors in a decent lift, but also that the building is legible, welcoming, easy to find your way around.
And so the original gallery’s central court, in which Italianate arches rest on columns in several varieties of the granite for which Aberdeen is famous, is now drenched in light descending through an oval opening in the ceiling from a glass roof above. The controversially removed staircase makes way for a foyer/cafe/shop that connects less formally than in the past with the street outside. A great rotunda, built as a memorial to the first world war, has (also controversially) had an altar and a 1960s carved slab removed and its first-floor circular gallery remodelled with a glass balustrade.
A new staircase, a dramatic ascent through a dark-walled fissure, runs up one side of the central court towards the light. The rooftop extension, when you get there, offers bright new temporary exhibition galleries and external terraces for viewing the Aberdeen skyline. The permanent displays on the lower floors have been revamped by the exhibition designer Studioarc, with explanations and contextual devices surrounding the paintings. In a room of portraits, for example, there is a “portrait pod” where you can don ruffs and hats and other historic accessories, and frame yourself in a mirror.
I didn’t know the old staircase, so can’t say for sure what has been lost, but the new entrance is a convincingly sociable and dignified space, lined in the same dark-dyed oak veneer as the new stair, with an internal arcade formed with the help of some granite Ionic columns that match the old ones. The added light and drama of the court are welcome. I can confirm that, seen from outside, the roof extension looks like a neither a tattie shed nor a bahookie, but is a complementary addition to what was already a work of accretions.
At the same time there’s a limit to how far accessibility as a guiding design principle can take you. When it comes to the memorial rotunda it feels as if something has been lost by way of both gravitas and local memory and not much gained: the glassy balustrade above has notes of shopping mall. Studioarc’s enthusiasm to engage, meanwhile, comes at the expense of the works themselves. Pieces by (for example) Bacon and Millais get jostled into corners and narrow spaces by interventions like the portrait pod; information panels, lest there be any danger of resting your eyes on a canvas, come in strident yellow. At this point the gallery seems to have forgotten what it is actually about.
The P&J Live, designed by the Glasgow architects Sasanbell and realised with the help of the venerable Scottish practice Keppie, makes no great claims for architectural nicety. With a construction cost of £333m, it’s a business proposition on the part of Aberdeen city council that aims to return a profit for the benefit of its citizens. It is, inside especially, an entertainment and display factory, framed in black steel, mostly concerned with getting right the logistics of an arena that can contain 12,500 seated spectators, or 15,000 standing, and three exhibition halls of 2,000 square metres each that can be merged into a single space. There are also two hotels, plus an underground car park of 33,000 square metres that can double as an exhibition space.
The project makes an effort to be sustainable, with 98.9% of the material from buildings formerly on the site reused, and its energy generated by a plant that runs on food waste and on biofuels grown locally. The complex comes with investment in surrounding landscaping, in the form of 29,000 trees and shrubs; in four streams rerouted into one; in paths on which locals can cycle and walk dogs. These are all good things, and the exterior of the complex has a certain dash and sweep, but it is only loosely orchestrated into an architectural whole. If the late Zaha Hadid had been asked to clad a distribution warehouse, the result would have looked something like this.
The gallery and events complex should, between them, do valuable service to their city, and in both cases the priority is to make sure that they do their jobs. But it’s also hard to escape the feeling that something has been missed in the gap between the vaulting ambition of the abandoned attempt to enlist international star architects in the wannabe High Line, and the projects that have actually been realised. It’s a difficult sweet spot for a local authority to hit, to achieve architecture that both keeps its feet on the ground and transcends its function. Aberdeen, like many others, hasn’t quite found it.
