
# How Much Could Caterpillar’s Stock Gain If It Successfully Achieves Its Q4 Cost-Reduction Target?

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/05/how-much-could-caterpillars-stock-gain-if-it-successfully-achieves-its-q4-cost-reduction-target/)

Caterpillar’s (NYSE: CAT) stock price fell roughly 3% when the company posted a rather soft results for its Q3 2019 earnings. The company missed consensus estimates on earnings and revenue by a margin, and also lowered its full-year outlook. Despite the bad news, the stock recovered over trading on the day of the earnings announcement, and ended the day 1% higher than its opening price. The primary reason for the subsequent rally in the company’s stock was the assurance provided by the management that the company would cut production to match dealer demand.Trefis quantifies the impact of Caterpillar’s cost-cutting efforts on its stock price in its interactive dashboard What Is The Upside To Caterpillar’s Stock if it Can Reduce Costs In Q4’19? We conclude that if Caterpillar can stick to its cost target for Q4 2019, then the fair value of its stock would be $147, as opposed to a figure of $143 in case costs remain at the levels expected before the latest announcement.

        How Is Caterpillar’s Stock Likely To Benefit?
      

        
          Lower Production Levels Coupled With Cost-Cutting Measures Should Lift Caterpillar’s Bottom Line
        
      

        
          This Could Have A Small Positive Impact On Caterpillar’s Share Price
        
      
Additional details about how Caterpillar’s segment revenues have trended over recent years along with our forecast for 2019 can be found in out interactive dashboard.
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
