
# Lawsuit Against Facebook Uses Public Accommodation Law to Challenge Advertising

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Patricia Barnes**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/patriciagbarnes/2019/11/01/lawsuit-against-facebook-uses-public-accommodation-law-to-challenge-advertising/)

It is discriminatory for a business to target advertising for jobs, housing and consumer credit on the basis of age and sex but what advertisements for car loans, reverse mortgages and personal financial services?A proposed class action lawsuit was filed recently in federal court in San Francisco charging Facebook Inc. with discriminating against millions of older and female users for allegedly withholding advertising for “financial services, like bank accounts, loans, insurance, investments.”
The lawsuit  is not based on federal civil rights laws that prohibit sex, age and credit discrimination, including Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act
Instead, the lawsuit is based on a California statute, the Unruh Civil Rights Act, which states that all people in the state, regardless of sex, race, disability or other characteristics, are entitled to "full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments of every kind whatsoever." Most states have so called public accommodation laws.
The Unruh law is best known for challenging “discriminatory” business practices such as “Ladies Nights” at bars where women pay lower drink prices.
The lawsuit potentially could have a wider impact on advertising that targets an specific audience but was not traditionally considered discriminatory, even if that was its effect.
Peter Romer-Friedman of the Washington, D.C. law firm, Outten & Golden LLP, which filed the lawsuit, said Facebook’s ad targeting practices have deprived millions of older people and women of the opportunity to receive advertisements regarding valuable investment opportunities. He cited as examples stock trading services and an investment opportunity involving Airbnb, the online marketplace for temporary lodging.
According to Romer-Friedman, California’s  Unruh law requires “businesses—including Facebook—to provide equal treatment to all of their customers.”
Romer-Friedman agreed Monday that the case could have “significant importance” to all advertisers who target ads but declined to discuss the matter. When asked if the Unruh law requires luxury yacht manufacturers to advertise to a general audience irrespective of income, Romer-Friedman said, “I don’t want to address that.”
According to the complaint, Facebook requires advertisers to select the age and gender of the Facebook users who will receive the ad. The default setting for age is 18 to 65+ but Facebook “strongly encourages advertisers to narrow the age range of the individuals who will receive their ads to make them more effective.”
In response to the lawsuit, Facebook said, “We’ve made significant changes to how housing, employment and credit opportunities are run on Facebook and continue to work on ways to prevent potential misuse.” The statement says Facebook’s advertising policies prohibit unlawful discrimination.
Facebook settled several lawsuits last March by civil rights groups including one filed by Outten & Golden, complaining the social media giant let employers, landlords and lenders discriminate by age, gender and zip code when placing job, housing and credit ads.
In July, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) found reasonable cause that federal discrimination laws were violated when seven employers restricted the recipients of employment advertisements on Facebook to exclude older persons. The EEOC asked the employers to resolve the matter informally through a process called conciliation which could result in a type of out-of-court settlement.
California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act provides damages of  $4,000 per violation.
The named Plaintiff in the case is Neuhtah Opiotennione, 54, of Washington, D.C., who also was named as the plaintiff in a class action lawsuit filed in September by Outten & Golden that alleges seven housing companies that lease or manage property in the D.C. area used Facebook’s advertising system to target younger users. Opiotennione works for the D.C. Public School System.
According to its Annual Report, Facebook had 1.52 billion daily active users and 2.32 billion monthly active users in 2018.
The case is Opiotennione et al v. Facebook Inc, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, No. 19-07185.
