
# Lenovo One will merge Windows and Android systems - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:58:29+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/06/lenovo-one-will-merge-windows-and-android-systems/)

“Lenovo One” will merge Windows and Android systems4.3 (86.67%) 6 votes
According to recent official reports, Lenovo is working on a new system that will merge Windows and Android systems. According to a Lenovo official, the  “Lenovo One” will merge the smartphone-friendly Android with laptop-friendly Windows. Unfortunately, he did not say how the company hopes to achieve this plan. In fact, we do not exactly know what “Lenovo One” refers to but it appears to be a new system for smartphones in the 5G era.
The Weibo post says “PCs large-screen productivity, meet, 5G era smartphones. What kind of world will be #Lenovo One#…Windows and Android will merge into one”
In the recent Lenovo Yoga conference, Lenovo claimed that “Lenovo One” can break restrictions and achieve cross-device connectivity. It can also achieve mobile screen projection, one-button fast transmission and other functions, similar to Apple Airdrop and Huawei Share. However, the company did not say when this system will arrive.
According to the officially released screenshots, Lenovo One supports Bluetooth quick links, and the computer reversely controls the mobile phone to transfer files at a high speed. The screenshot shows the Lenovo Z6 Pro 5G connected to the ThinkPad X1 Carbon. As of now, the available information on Lenovo One is still sketchy. We will have to wait and see what the company does in the coming weeks.
Via 
