
# Pence blasts ‘Anonymous’ book, impeachment proceedings as he files for Trump in New Hampshire

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:26:35+00:00**

Author: **Paul Steinhauser**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/pence-blasts-anonymous-book-trump-impeachment-files-new-hampshire)

CONCORD, N.H. – Vice President Pence blasted a new report Thursday that suggested he had considered supporting the use of the 25th Amendment to have President Trump removed from office.
And on the day that a State Department aide detailed to the vice president's office was testifying as part of the Democrats’ House impeachment inquiry, Pence emphasized that neither he nor the president did anything wrong in their dealings with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.

        
          ANONYMOUS CLAIM THAT PENCE WOULD SUPPORT 25TH AMENDMENT 
          TO REMOVE TRUMP SHOT DOWN
        
      
Pence addressed both issues after filing to place Trump’s name on the first-in-the-nation Republican primary ballot in New Hampshire. Making clear there's no daylight between running mates, Pence dismissed “without qualification” rumors that he considered invoking the 25th Amendment to the Constitution.
Pence’s comments came hours after the anonymous author of an upcoming anti-Trump book reportedly cited anonymous sources to declare that the vice president was seen to support using the 25th Amendment to have Trump removed from office back in 2017. The Huffington Post obtained an excerpt of "A Warning,” which is written by the unnamed senior Trump administration official who penned a scathing attack on the president in an anonymous New York Times op-ed last year.

        
          WHAT IS THE 25TH AMENDMENT?
        
      
The Huffington Post reported that the anonymous author “did a back-of-the-envelope tally of which Cabinet members would be prepared to sign a letter invoking Section 4 of the 25th Amendment to the Constitution” and “there was no doubt in the minds of these senior officials” that Pence would be on board.
Asked by Fox News if there was any validity to the report, the vice president said:  “When those rumors came out a few years ago, I dismissed them then. I never heard any discussion in my entire tenure as vice president about the 25th Amendment. And why would I? I mean the record that we’re celebrating today here in New Hampshire, the record that we’re going to be taking all across this country is a testament to President Donald Trump’s leadership.”
