
# 'Tremendous' - The Aston Villa story still giving Everton fans nightmares

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:20:00+00:00**

Author: **Mat Kendrick, https://www.facebook.com/matkendrickjournalist/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-news-everton-win-8056302)

Remember, remember the FIFTH of November.
But on this day 30 years ago, Villa Park was experiencing the joy of SIX as Graham Taylor's men beat Everton 6-2.
Braces from Ian Olney and David Platt were sandwiched between goals from Gordon Cowans and Kent Nielsen during the televised rout to give the claret and blue faithful a warm bonfire night glow.
Reporting on the Sunday afternoon drubbing for the Birmingham Post, Robert Millward wrote: "Aston Villa produced their own box of fireworks to set Villa Park alight with thoughts of another League championship."
The emphatic victory was Villa's fifth win on the trot and lifted them up to third as they prevented title challengers Everton from regaining the top spot.
Ultimately, Villa would finish runners up to the Toffees' Merseyside rivals Liverpool in the race for the Championship.
"It was one of those games where Villa looked like scoring at every attack," reported Millward in the Post, as Taylor's claret and blues raced into a 6-0 lead in just over an hour.
Cowans got the ball rolling after just five minutes by drilling a low right-foot angled drive into bottom left corner from just inside the area following a pass from Chris Price.
Olney tapped in the second on 19 minutes after Platt's close range effort from a measured Ian Ormondroyd cross from the left was saved by Everton and Wales goalkeeper Neville Southall.
Platt got on the scoresheet himself on 25 minutes with a glancing header past Southall from a precise Cowans free-kick after Norman Whiteside fouled Ormondroyd.
He completed his brace from the first attack of the second half on 49 minutes, making it four by stepping past his marker and slotting in a low shot after receiving a pass from Kevin Gage.
Soon it was 5-0 as Ormondroyd's raid down the left saw the lanky striker's shot saved by Southall before Olney nodded in the rebound as Platt challenged for the ball on 52 minutes.
Nielsen added the sixth on 67 minutes by getting the faintest of touches at the back post in front of a jubilant Holte End after Cowans floated over another accurate free-kick.
Everton pulled two back late on through Tony Cottee on 83 minutes and a Paul McGrath own goal on 85 minutes, much to the annoyance of goalkeeper Nigel Spink who was angry to see the defence breached even with such a comfortable winning margin.
It failed to dent the excitement of the fans, however, who burst onto the field in a good-natured pitch invasion at the final whistle.
"We played extremely well and our finishing was first class," said Taylor, singling out Cowans and Ormondroyd for special praise.
"It will do our confidence a tremendous amount of good."
Taylor's Toffees counterpart Colin Harvey was less impressed by his own side's performance, saying: "I would say it is one of my worst days in football."
