
# Paul Scholes tells Ole Gunnar Solskjaer his best Man Utd starting line-up

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:52:23+00:00**

Author: **Gareth Bicknell**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/paul-scholes-tells-ole-gunnar-20837760)

Paul Scholes has told Ole Gunnar Solskjaer what he believes his best Manchester United starting line-up is following their 3-0 Europa League win over Partizan Belgrade.
United sealed their place in the knockout rounds of the competition with two games to spare in the group stage thanks to goals from Mason Greenwood, Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford.
Scholes believes Solskjaer's best side is starting to come together, with United now needing to climb back up the Premier League table knowing they are through to the last 32 of the Europa League.
The United legend says there is still a question mark over who should partner Harry Maguire in central defence, but has backed Axel Tuanzebe to stake a claim once he returns from injury - although he said United may still need to strengthen in that area.
Scholes' starting XI also features Paul Pogba, who is expected back from an ankle injury in early December, and Daniel James, who was rested for Thursday's clash with the 21-year-old having played 18 games already for club and country so far this season.
Talking about how he'd set out the team, former United midfielder Scholes told BT Sport: "It's a 4-4-1-1 really. As I see it, the Manchester United way.
"The goalkeeper explains itself, he's obviously one of the very best.
"I think the question mark in the back four is a partner for Maguire. I like the rest of it.
"I think he needs someone quick, someone strong, someone aggressive next to him. When Tuanzebe's come into the team this season he's looked like he could be.
"I still think it's a question mark, they could possibly need another centre-half next to him. I'm not convinced by Rojo, I'm not convinced by Lindelof. I think Tuanzebe, given a run of games, could be good.
"McTominay and Pogba in midfield, I think they could be good together. We've seen how good McTominay has been this year.
"Pogba, he still gets criticism, but he still gets in the team with the qualities he does have."
Scholes liked the look of Greenwood, Rashford and Martial up front for United on Thursday, with James also available to inject added pace.
"I think those four up front excite me," he said. "I think there's real pace.
"I think a question mark is against the number 10 area of the pitch. A player who can knit the team together, who can link the midfield and the forward players.
"Mata was good at that tonight, but in the long run I don't think he'll be the answer."
