
# Best Buy Black Friday 2019 Sales: What We Know So Far

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/11/04/best-buy-black-friday-2019-sales-what-we-know-so-far-apple-iphone-galaxy-s10-note10-xbox-ps4-pro-tv-deals/)

This story was written in collaboration with Forbes Finds. Forbes Finds covers products we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes and the author may receive a small share of that sale.Best Buy Black Friday is already up and running with some top quality Apple AirPods savings and big deals on Samsung TVs. Furthermore, with live sales from Amazon and from Walmart increasing the pressure, we now have a good idea about Best Buy’s doorbuster Black Friday plans...

        Amazon Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Best Buy Black Friday 2019 Shipping Policy
      
For starters, Best Buy has stepping things up for Black Friday 2019 which an upgraded shipping policy which matches top dog Target with free, fast shipping on every item with no minimum. The deal, in particular, puts Walmart to shame. 

        Best Buy Black Friday 2019: Current Live Sales 
      

        Apple Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Best Buy Black Friday 2019: Expected Sales
      
Interestingly, Best Buy already has savings for big-ticket items like AirPods, Galaxy smartphones, consoles and premium TVs. The big omission is iPhones while I also expect deals for new consoles to replace the refurbished units right now, making these the doorbuster deals you should look out for during Best Buy’s Black Friday 2019 sales: 

        Samsung Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
Yes, Best Buy’s doorbusters will tie-in closely with those of rivals - most noticeably Walmart. But Best Buy’s biggest differentiator will be its focus on direct savings rather than gift cards, while Best Buy credit card holders could earn a further 5% off deals, something that will match Target’s additional Cyber Monday discounts for REDCard holders. 
If you can’t want for Black Friday itself and want a deal now, check out my dedicated store-by-store, other Black Friday deals guides for Amazon’s early live deals, Walmart’s live deals and my roundups of the best live Apple deals and Samsung savings. 
To track my daily Black Friday guides, leaks and recommendations hit the Follow button on my author page. 
___

        More of my Black Friday Guides on Forbes
      
