
# Slapdash England suffer their own It’s a Royal Knockout humiliation

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:00:23+00:00**

Author: **Kevin Mitchell**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/02/rugby-world-cup-tv-review)


        The Queen offered her goodwill message to Eddie Jones’s side but there was no goodwill from the Springboks
      
Anyone who cringes at the memory of It’s a Royal Knockout (is it only 32 years ago?) would know our oldest family do not always bless high-grade international sporting occasions with good karma. But, oh no. Her Majesty only went and chipped in with a goodwill message to Eddie Jones and the boys on the morning of their big day in Yokohama. When Thought For Today on Radio 4 invoked the spirit of muscular Christianity, the Book of Genesis and William Webb Ellis, suspicions of doom gathered. It was not going to be a good day for God and country.
On the BBC in 1987, not even Superman (Christopher Reeve) could save Prince Edward’s embarrassment as the balls refused to bounce for his team of celebrities in an ill-conceived hodgepodge of skills; on ITV on Saturday, it was left to Prince Harry to deliver his grandmother’s best wishes to the team – then bear live witness to the shambles that ensued.
Before a head was kicked, South Africa were in front two national anthems to one – the glorious Nkosi Sikelel’ iAfrika and the less glorious Die Stem van Suid-Afrika, now merged together – although it is likely God Save the Queen got an equally rousing run-out in the TV room at Buckingham Palace.
The excellent Nick Mullins – the best front-man in TV sports commentary? – has played another blinder in this tournament: informed, calm, rarely tempting fate, all but immune to flag-waving. On Saturday, his professionalism was stretched to the limit.
However, his sidekick, Lawrence Dallaglio, was less constrained by the burden of objectivity. When England were pinged within kicking distance after 55 seconds, he set the put-upon tone for the serial disaster to follow. “The referee Jérôme Garcès blew the whistle very quickly there for Courtney Lawes rolling away,” he grumbled, “and England will be looking for that same consistency when South Africa bodies are lying on the ball.”
Sadly, for England, they did not often please Monsieur Garcès, who blew his whistle with certainty bordering on enthusiasm. Those of us parked on couches far away moaned a little. Then a lot. “That’s never offside!” There was nothing to enthuse about, much to criticise. There were shots of Eddie in his eyrie, pressing the red button on his chest every now and again to relay a thought or two to the sidelines. He might as well have been ordering a pizza. Neither message nor food appeared to get through.
As South Africa – 20kg lighter in the scrum at a mere 900kg – began to shove the England pack about like matchboxes on the kitchen table, Ben Kay kept the faith. When England infringed at the ruck to present South Africa with their first points, he observed: “Owen Farrell smiling as he got up. I don’t mind that. England have to ride the storm.”
He added, correctly: “Finals are often not about what goes right, but how you bounce back when things are going wrong.”
However, for another 82 minutes, England had the froth of a Southern Ocean storm in their faces as they clung to the railings of their sinking hopes. Everything went wrong. After taking 20 minutes to get into the Springbok 22 and battering them through 25 phases, they went in 12-6 down. No team have ever come from behind at half-time to win the final.
That did not stop England’s patron saint of lost causes identifying hope where others detected only embarrassment. “I see the second half being a very, very big opportunity for England,” Jonny Wilkinson said. “As a general structure, as a machine that rolls forward, England have looked very, very quite dominant and composed. They just needed to stay patient.”
It sort of made sense. But England needed the patience of Vladimir and Estragon. They had 40 minutes. There would be no Godot.
South Africa crossed just past the hour for 23-12, and even Mullins was reduced to cliche. “It’s a long way back for England.” Tipperary was closer. Three minutes later, they knocked on in sight of the line, and he chuckled darkly: “You could almost argue it wasn’t one … only if you’re English.”
One imagined royal buttocks twitching on satin cushions back home. Certainly Harry (who took his rugby licks at Eton) looked as if he could do with a hug. But all about him were functionaries. He was in a lonely place – much as Eddie in his eyrie, with his big red button. Still waiting for his pizza. Sayonara, baby.
