
# Grace Millane trial: Inside hotel room where Brit 'was strangled to death'

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:12:20+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, Stephen D&#39;Antal, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/, Benjamin Cooper**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/grace-millane-trial-inside-hotel-20830069)

Jurors have been shown these photos of the hotel room where a British backpacker Grace Millane was allegedly strangled to death while having sex.
The images show a white substance, Luminol, used to detect blood stains on the carpet and wall, an unmade bed and clothes thrown over the duvet and chairs.
A pair of black boots is on the floor at the end of the bed, personal belongings and an iron are on a table and multiple mobile phones are being charged in the room at Auckland's CityLife hotel.
Also pictured are grey metal steps that officers stood on as they moved around the room to avoid contaminating any potential evidence, and a grey suitcase which is not the one the alleged murderer used to dump the British backpacker's body.
A 27-year-old man is accused of murdering Ms Millane inside the room during a Tinder date on December 1 or December 2 - her 22nd birthday - last year.
The Crown has alleged that the man, who cannot be named due to a suppression order, strangled the young woman from Wickford, Essex, during rough sex and shoved her body inside a suitcase before burying her in a forested area outside Auckland.
The defence claims the death was accidental.
The jury was also shown CCTV of Ms Millane, who was in New Zealand during a round-the-world trip, visit a number of bars in the city centre with the defendant where they drank alcohol.
The court was shown security footage of Ms Millane leaving Base Backpackers hostel and walking to nearby Sky City, where she met the defendant and embraced him.
They went inside to Andy's Burgers & Bar, where they drank together before departing to drink some jugs of sangria at Mexican Cafe.
Ms Millane is shown resting her chin briefly on the defendant's shoulder as he pays for their drinks at the cafe.
Cameras on the street show the pair then walking and intermittently holding hands on the way to Bluestone Room, where they sit at a table inside the front door.
They spend just over an hour at the venue, during which time the defendant leans across and kisses Ms Millane lightly, before then putting his hand on the back of her head and kissing her in a more sustained manner.
They continue kissing and talking for a while, then leave and walk arm-in-arm a short distance into the lobby of the CityLife hotel, where the defendant was staying, at 9.40pm.
They enter the lifts and Ms Millane follows the accused out of the lift at 9.41pm to his apartment on the third floor.
It is the last time she is seen alive.
Detective Adam Bicknell told the court that "just short of six terabytes of data, which is a significant amount" was examined from licensed venues, street cameras and the hotel where it is alleged Ms Millane was killed.
At one point, Ms Millane had messaged her friend, Ameena Ashcroft, to say "I click with him so well" about the man who allegedly strangled her hours later.
Ms Ashcroft said in a letter read to Auckland High Court that she "thought something was out of place" when the young woman sent a series of messages in which she admitted to wanting to "get smashed" with the man she met on Tinder.
Ms Millane's mother, Gillian Millane, left the court in tears as Detective Samuel Luker described a series of photographs found on the defendant's phone.
Those photos taken in the early hours of December 2, 2018 showed intimate photos of a woman's body, the detective said, which the Crown has alleged were taken of Ms Millane after her death.
The defendant, wearing a navy blue suit and black shirt, did not react as Mrs Millane walked out of the courtroom.
Ms Millane's father, David Millane, looked directly at the defendant as the detective confirmed pornography was looked at on the man's phone after his daughter's death.
But he cast his eyes down when he heard the defendant had searched online for "rigor mortis".
The data showed the man had used Google to browse websites for large duffel bags, suitcases and car hire.
The defendant's phone was also used to search for "flesh-eating birds" and "are there vultures in New Zealand?" days later on December 5, 2018.
Records showed the defendant had searched online for "the hottest fire", "large bags near me" and "Waitakere Ranges" - where Ms Millane's body was later found contorted inside a suitcase on December 9, 2018 - before going on another Tinder date later that day.
Her parents had wept in court as they heard that earrings and a small metal tag inscribed with the word "freedom" were also found inside the suitcase.
The trial continues and is expected to last five weeks.
