
# South Lanarkshire Council leader in Twitter attack on unionists

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:43:41+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Geddes, East Kilbride News, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jonathan-geddes/, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/east-kilbride-news/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/south-lanarkshire-council-leader-twitter-20817401)

The leader of South Lanarkshire Council has apologised after comparing Unionist supporters to dog dirt in an inflammatory Tweet.
John Ross, who has led the local authority since 2017, sparked a storm of protest on social media after his comments on Saturday.
Those came during a gathering of independence supporters in George Square in Glasgow.
Mr Ross Tweeted: “The perfect answer to our Unionist friends” before showing two pictures, both featuring signs held aloft by independence supporters.
The first stated “ram your union up your hoop” while the second featured the union flag amidst dog dirt.
The council leader deleted the message several hours later after furious comments from Union supporters, before apologising two days later.
One Twitter user wrote: “You’ve shown your true colours. Apologies at this point are the least of your worries. Shame on you.”
Another stated: “Absolutely shameful language.”
A third added: “I’m sorry, but that r-Tweet and your comment was unacceptable. And now this Tweet smacks of insincerity.”
Councillor Joe Fagan hit out at Mr Ross and his Tweet, criticising the council leader for his online faux-pas.
He said: “John Ross is perfectly entitled to his opinions about independence, but as Leader of the council he has a responsibility to everyone in South Lanarkshire, whether they voted Yes or No.
“He needs to remember that before he fires off another one of his Tweets.”
The News understands that Mr Ross will not be considered in breach of South Lanarkshire Council’s social media policy,however, due to the remarks being made in a personal capacity.
Mr Ross told us: “My support for independence is well-known and I am proud to be part of the campaign for another independence referendum.
“It is very clear to me that the UK is presently in a mess and that Scotland would be better off out of the Union, and that was the essence of the messages on the posters that I Tweeted from the rally.
“However, the wording and images were not the sort of thing I would use myself and when I had a chance to reflect on this, I decided to delete the tweet from my timeline.”
Saturday’s Tweet was not the first time that the council leader’s use of social media has caused controversy.
In 2018 he came under fire from opposition politicians after a Tweet called for“civil defiance” to secure Scottish independence.
