
# Review: The First Disney+ TV Shows Are Disappointingly Unessential

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Mendelson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/scottmendelson/2019/11/05/the-first-disney-tv-shows-high-school-musical-world-according-to-jeff-goldblum-and-encore-are-disappointly-inessential/)

High School Musical The Musical The Series has a terrible hook (and not nearly enough original musical numbers), while the documentaries are a mixed bag.Disney+ will launch a week from today with a deluge of older movies and TV shows, but also with a handful of new originals. And the streaming service offered some previews of some of that content for review prior to launch. The embargo dropped yesterday, but I was a bit behind, and for that matter I still haven’t sat and watched the live-action Lady and the Tramp, which is the big new movie which will be available on launch. To be fair, as a “cats rule/dogs rule” kind of person, it’s not exactly my cup of tea, so this will be confined to the episodic content. And the verdict, from what I’ve seen thus far is, well, it’s “okay.” It’s passable for folks already planning to subscribe but not remotely essential.
First, this batch of preview content did not include The Mandalorian, but everything we’ve seen seems to suggest that the Jon Favreau-created Star Wars show will be the “big one.” I certainly hope this isn’t a situation where Disney+ lives or dies by the quality of its Star Wars and MCU content, but we’ll see if Noelle or Magic Camp are any better. In terms of episodic content, the “event” is High School Musical: The Musical: The Series. The bright, colorful and well-acted show seems like only a slight step up, in terms of production values, from a conventional Disney Channel sitcom, and everyone is a bit more low-key. The faux documentary approach is distracting and unnecessary, but the core problem is two-fold.
First, at least in the first two episodes we’ve been offered, it’s desperately trying to be Glee Jr. However, it lacks both genuinely biting humor and, amazingly, anything resembling the kind of knockout musical numbers that made Ryan Murphy’s musical melodrama must-see TV even long after the random plotting and inconsistent characterization should have scared us away. Since the characters in this high school are putting on a stage version of the first High School Musical, we mostly get covers of those songs, which seems weirdly incestual. We finally get a banner original song toward the end of episode two, with the series lead (Olivia Rodrigo) and her shy/awkward pal (Julia Lester) belting out (and playing on a piano) an emotional power ballad.
The other issue is the show’s core plot. The set-up concerns our starlet getting dumped by her boyfriend (Joshua Bassett) after he panics at the whole “I love you” thing just before she takes off for summer camp. She returns with a new boyfriend, a comparative jock (Matt Cornett) who is still quite nice and supportive. So, the spurned ex tries out for the school musical and lands the lead role, alongside Rodrigo’s Nini, putting the young woman in a terrible situation. The show flirts with noting Ricky’s selfish and horrific behavior, but it ends its second episode by somewhat validating the set-up. Yes, Ricky had his reasons for panicking (his parents are on the verge of divorcing), but he’s still inserting himself into his ex’s life, against her will, in order to “win her back.”
Without getting into finger-wagging, the set up puts us in a situation were our proverbial lead character spends the entire show being fought over by two dudes and spends much of the show being tormented and/or made uncomfortable in a situation that was supposed to bring her happiness. We find ourselves rooting against the thing we are supposed to endorse, namely a successful production of the show and find the show’s key moments, the rehearsals and theater drama, undercut by the downright cruel behavior of the male co-lead. Whether or not it’s “problematic” or “toxic,” it’s just aggressively unfun. Yes, Glee thrived on passion plays, but the musical numbers balanced out (or enhanced) the often-painful melodrama. High School Musical either needs more songs or a course correction.
The rest of the episodic content previewed are a handful of documentaries. Encore features executive producer Kristen Bell as our “host” in a series which has adults reuniting with their high school theater groups in order to redo one of their childhood theatrical productions. The show and its execution are exactly as you expect, operating less as a competitive reality show and more as a Queer Eye for the Straight Guy-style empowerment fable. The show is upfront about presenting non-cis adults and documenting their tragedies and triumphs, so that’s a plus. Forky Asks a Question is a series of three-minute shorts where the Toy Story 4 character tries to dissect a seemingly basic part of everyday society (“What is money?”) through the eyes of someone who has just been introduced to the world. It’s a cute gimmick.
Marvel’s Hero Project is 1/2-hour series featuring real-life kids designated as “heroes” for their advocacy, accomplishments or triumphs over adversity. The attempts to justify the use of the Marvel IP in these episodes qualify as self-sabotage, as we spend maybe 1/3 of the running time sitting around with Marvel folks as they discuss what superhero their newest subject most resembles and/or giving the kid an arbitrary award. When the focus is on the kids themselves (a one-armed girl who invents unusual uses for that missing limb, a blind boy who excels at football, a young boy speaking out against child abuse), it’s fine. The World According to Jeff Goldblum finds the actor as his most schtick-y as he investigates a certain part of life, be it the world of sneakers or ice cream.
The show is both surface-level entertaining and a little odd, since Goldblum is so heavily leaning into a caricature of himself. Imagine Christopher Walken hosting a cooking show not just as himself but as the most exaggerated “Check out my bad Chris Walken impression!” version of himself. Actually, that sounds wonderful, so maybe I just sold you on The World According to Jeff Goldblum. The show does seem a bit like the actor plunging into the abyss where the pop culture version becomes the real-world persona. That said, this is not unlike those Food Network “search for the best hot dogs” type shows, which I do enjoy, so yes, I will probably watch these purely for pleasure when the next batch of episodes drop on the streaming network.
I’ll also watch The Imagineering Story to completion. The six-part documentary is a look at the Disney theme parks, from inception to (I presume) the very-recent past. The first two episodes are quite impressive in terms of quantity and quality of behind-the-scenes footage. Some of the material looks like it was shot last year. Is this an “authorized” version of the history of the Disney parks, with all the caveats that designation implies? Most likely, but there’s no law saying you can’t watch these and read something a bit less “approved” as well. My wife is a big fan of the Disney parks, so she’ll probably get the most out of these compared to the other above-noted content. And the “Spark Shorts,” a series of Pixar short films, are about as lovely as you’d expect.
I may catch up with Lady and the Tramp right around when I watch Noelle when the service debuts on November 12. Yes, I am already signed up for the next three years anyway, while my current AT&T service presumably gets me “free” HBO Max and my T-Mobile cell service gets me “free” Netflix. But if I were not inclined to sign up already, both for business purposes and the deluge of older content, then this first batch of new stuff wouldn’t be terribly inspiring. The single new fictional episodic of note is frankly not very good, while the documentary material is, at best, uneven. Moreover, none of this stuff is essential to the casual entertainment consumer, nor is it better than the comparative versions you could get via conventional cable or network TV.
