
# Stop Paying Modem Rental Fees & Grab A Discounted Arris Modem Today

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:26:16+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-arris-modem-sale-black-friday-holideals-amazon-deal.html)

Amazon has a deal today that is going to piss off your Internet Service Provider, and that's because it has an Arris Modem on sale today. Actually, it has a few on sale today, and it's all part of its Gold Box Deal of the Day. That means that this is going to be good today only.
These modems are certified to work on many different ISPs. So no matter your ISP, you likely have one here that will work for you, and you can eliminate those pesky modem rental fees. That's why your ISP is going to hate this deal. You see, they make a ton of money on modem rental fees. Many charge $12 or more per month. And after about six months, it's actually paid off, but you're still paying for it.
They start at $68 and go up from there. Depending on your connection and whether you have a phone attached to your Internet service or not, will determine which one you need. But make sure you read the description on each one, so that you can be sure that you get the one that will work with your Internet Service Provider.
Advertisement
But the majority of these will work with Xfinity, Spectrum, AT&T and Verizon Fios. Which covers the majority of Americans anyways.
If you're looking to save some cash, this is the way to do it. Pick up one of these Arris modems and then tell your ISP to shove that monthly modem rental fee – you know where. Within about six months, possibly less, this Arris Modem will have paid for itself, thanks to this sale. So it's definitely worth picking up.
You can grab an Arris Modem from Amazon today by clicking here. Of course, this is going to be good today only and will expire at midnight PST tonight.
Advertisement

        Arris Modems - Amazon
      
