
# Adobe Demos Awesome Tool That Finally Includes The Photographer In Group Shots

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Thanussha Priyah**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407233/Adobe-Demos-Awesome-Tool-That-Finally-Includes-The-Photographer-In-Group-Shots/)

The annual Adobe MAX event took place this week with comedian and writer John Mulaney and senior Creative Cloud evangelist Paul Trani. The showcase invites creatives to peek behind the curtains and view the latest technologies developed by Adobe’s employees that may or may not make it to the final cut. One standout idea from 11 potential future innovations was Project All In, powered by Adobe’s AI tech Sensei. The experiment uses machine-learning software to solve the reoccurring struggles many face when taking group pictures. Usually, there is one person in the group who stretches out their arms to take a wefie, barely fitting everyone in. There are also some who rely on a tripod or a timer and hope for the best, while others resort to asking help from nearby strangers to take the group picture, leaving it to blind faith that the image will turn out good. However, more often than not, one person from the group will be excluded from the shot, so Project All In combats this gripe by also acknowledging the photographer behind the lens. Demonstrated by Adobe Product Manager Mina Doroudi, Project All In uses a facial recognition tool to detect the missing person out of the group picture and adds them into the shot. All they have to do is take a photograph of the group members and then a separate picture of the missing person at the same scene. The technology will then identify the excluded character and blend them into the picture seamlessly. Now, no one gets left out. Advertisement Advertisement Though the tech is still on the drawing board, it can fix an ongoing problem many encounter if it actually gets the stamp of approval and become an actual Adobe product. Those interested in the other experiments that were previewed during the event can visit Adobe's blog to find out more. Check out the #AllinSneak demo below.
