
# Weather contingencies in place for North Lanarkshire ahead of General Election

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Wishaw Press, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/wishaw-press/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/weather-contingencies-place-north-lanarkshire-20815012)

Severe weather contingencies and polling place bookings have been put in place as North Lanarkshire’s officials make arrangements to run next month’s general election.
Officials describe the timescale for the December 12 election as “challenging”, but say all the necessary arrangements are currently being put in place for voters in the constituencies of Airdrie & Shotts and Motherwell & Wishaw.
Depute returning officer Stephen Penman said: “For severe weather, we have extensive contingency plans to deliver council services, as we’d still be delivering all those while an election is going on.
“A winter election is unusual, but the council is used to making plans for severe weather and we’re in the process of ensuring that weather-related risks are mitigated, including access to polling places and availability of staff.
“We’re fully prepared to hold the general election; although the timescale is challenging, we have well-developed plans in place.”
Parties have now started on the campaign trail.
Wishaw MP Marion Fellows, first elected in 2015, is hoping to return to Westminster with an increased majority.
She said: “I will fight Scotland’s corner against any UK Government and protect our right to decide our EU membership with a people’s vote. Scotland must have the right to choose its own future.
“I have enjoyed working for and representing communities over the past four years. I want to keep fighting for them.”
Labour’s candidate in Wishaw, Angela Feeney, said: “I am proud to be the Parliamentary candidate for Labour for Motherwell and Wishaw.
“As an NHS employee and a trade unionist I see the harsh realities of Tory misrule every day. I am ready to take the Labour message to the people and to present our radical manifesto to them.”
The Conservatives have also named their candidate for the constituency.
Meghan Gallacher said: “Motherwell and Wishaw deserves an MP who will put the people they represent first, not one who will seek to further divide this country.”
Shotts MP Neil Gray also kicked off his General Election campaign earlier this week
He said: “I have fought for the people of this constituency ever since my election in 2015 and I will keep up that fight.”
