
# Why Impeachment Observers Are Calling Sondland’s Reversal A Game-Changer

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rachel Sandler**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/rachelsandler/2019/11/05/why-impeachment-observers-are-calling-sondlands-reversal-a-game-changer/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Topline: Gordon Sondland, a U.S. ambassador to the European Union, reversed his initial testimony to a House committee investigating impeachment, saying foreign aid to Ukraine was contingent on Ukrainian officials announcing an investigation into Burisma Holdings and the Bidens, making him the third Trump administration official to confirm a politically based quid pro quo imposed by the Trump administration on Ukraine.  
Key background: When the impeachment inquiry started, a key GOP talking point defending Trump was that there was no quid pro quo. But as evidence quickly surfaces to the contrary, Republicans, behind-the-scenes, have begun to admit that while a quid pro quo occurred but claim that it’s not an illegal or impeachable offense, the New York Times reported. 
Chief critic(s): Representative Ted Lieu, D-Calif., tweeted: “Pleased he added to his testimony & now confirms, again, the quid pro quo by @realDonaldTrump. You can also call it extortion, bribery and abuse of power.” Meanwhile, Senator Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., dismissed Sondland’s reversal, and said, “I've written the whole process off ... I think this is a bunch of B.S." 
New peg: House Democrats have launched an impeachment inquiry into Trump’s actions in response to a phone call between Trump and Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelensky. On the July call, Trump directed Zelensky to investigate Joe Biden and his son Hunter for corruption. Trump and Rudy Giuliani claim that then-vice president Biden pushed for the resignation of Ukraine’s top prosecutor in an effort to quash an investigation into Burisma Holdings, where Hunter Biden had a board seat.
Further reading: Read Sondland’s full transcript here. The addendum starts on page 377 on the PDF. 
