
# Emmerdale incest twist as fans predict romance for 'cousins' Belle and Vinny Dingle

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:01:52+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/emmerdale-vinny-belle-related-dingle-20786983)

Emmerdale fans have predicted a new incest twist will rock the Dales, after sensing an attraction between cousins Belle Dingle and Vinny Dingle.
What Belle and the family don't currently know is that Vinny isn't actually a Dingle, because he's not really Mandy's son despite their claims.
Amid his real identity being confirmed, the family believe he is her child - making him the great-nephew of Zak Dingle, and a cousin once removed of Cain and sister Belle.
Mandy is Zak's neice, the daughter of his brother Caleb, with Zak's children Belle and Cain being her cousins.
In recent scenes, Vinny appeared to take a liking to Belle, and now some viewers are convinced the soap is lining up a new romance.
Despite the pair not actually being related, Belle and her family currently believe this to be the case, so if something was to happen fans believe it would be inappropriate.
Taking to Twitter , one viewer said: "Has Vinny a crush on 'cousin' Belle #Emmerdale #Dingle family."
Another said: "Belle and Vinny are going to fall for each other aren’t they?"
A third added: "Vinny suddenly taking a fancy to Belle must have been an emergency re-write from Ellis taking off to Dubai!"
Meanwhile, a fourth referenced the Dingle family's history with incestuous romances by adding: "Surely if Vinny doesn't have a go at Belle or another Dingle it'll look suspicious."
Mandy herself married her own cousin Butch, the son of Zak, before she moved on with Paddy Kirk.
Then there was Cain's romance with cousin Charity Dingle, the daughter of Zak's cousin Obadiah, with the pair having a child together, Debbie Dingle.
Charity also slept with another cousin, Marlon Dingle, back in 2003 - with Marlon's father Albert being Zak's brother and therefore Obadiah's cousin.
It remains to be seen who exactly Vinny is, and how the Dingles will react when they find out he's not one of their own.

        Emmerdale airs weeknights at 7pm on ITV, with an extra episode at 8pm on Thursdays.
      
