
# 'Almost lost my life': NFL star blames Redskins for not catching his cancer for five years

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:55:55+00:00**

Author: **Tim Pearce**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/almost-lost-my-life-nfl-star-blames-redskins-for-not-catching-his-cancer-for-five-years)

Washington Redskins left tackle Trent Williams played with a cancer growth on his head for six years before team doctors took the growth seriously.
A growth appeared on Williams' head late in the 2013 season. The Redskins lineman had Dermatofibrosarcoma Protuberans (DFSP), a type of cancer that develops in deep layers of skin. For six years, team doctors dismissed Williams' worries about the growth while the cancer continued to increase in size, according to the Washington Post.
Redskins doctors sent Williams to a team-affiliated hospital for an exam before the 2019 season after teammates grew concerned about the growth on Williams' head, as well. Doctors at the hospital diagnosed the lump as cancer, and Williams underwent surgery at a hospital in Chicago in mid-winter to remove it.
"I almost lost my life," Williams said. "We literally caught it within weeks of metastasizing through to my brain to my skull."
Williams said that doctors told him to fill out a will in case he did not survive.
"The Washington Redskins have requested that the NFL’s Management Council convene a joint committee with the NFLPA to review the medical records and medical care given to Trent Williams," the Redskins said in a statement. "We have requested this interview under the NFL’s Collective Bargaining Agreement that provides for an independent third party review of any NFL player’s medical care."
"The Redskins continue to prioritize the health and well-being of our players and staff," The Redskins said.
