
# EU funds Libyan Coast Guard but who is monitoring them?

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:31:45+00:00**

Author: **Euronews **

Original: [euronews](https://www.euronews.com/2019/11/03/eu-funds-libyan-coast-guard-but-has-limited-monitoring-capacity-leaked-report-suggests)

In the past two years, the EU has spent more than 90 million euros funding and training the Libyan Coast Guard (LCG) in an attempt to keep migrants out of the continent.
Yet a leaked EU report seen by Euronews suggests that the bloc's ability to monitor LCG's activity is limited at best.
The report in question was sent in July this year by the European External Action Service to member states' ambassadors.
While the military mission called Eunavfor Med - Operation Sophia (ENFM) is in charge of training and evaluating LCG, its staff is not permitted to set foot in the country due to security conditions.
“It is important to underline that any monitoring activity ashore will be conditional to the improvement of the overall security situation in Libya, which at the moment doesn't allow any ENFM personnel to enter the country,” the report said
Operation Sophia can speak “by phone call and online chat” with the LCG or hold periodic meetings with them but has no authorisation to go onboard of Libyan vessels or operate in Libyan waters.
Launched in 2015, Eunavfor Med so far has trained 355 Libyan personnel with a view to "help to offset any perception of an EU disengagement from Libya," the report said.
According to the report, EU's work to build capacities of the Libyan Coast Guard has been a success.
“The reduced migrants flow in the Mediterranean Sea proves today that the model described above has been successful,” the report said.
But humanitarians' accounts of the situation off the Libyan coast tell a very different story.
Last week, German NGO Sea-Eye accused the Libyan Coast Guard of pointing guns at rescuers and migrants.
