
# Saoirse Kennedy Hill died from accidental drug overdose at family compound

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:44:01+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/saoirse-kennedy-hill-died-accidental-20790965)

The tragic granddaughter of assassinated US presidential candidate Robert Kennedy died from an accidental overdose, according to reports.
Saoirse Kennedy Hill, 22, was found unresponsive at the Kennedy family compound in Cape Cod, Massachusetts, on August 1.
The Boston Globe reports that her death certificate states a mixture of methadone, alcohol, and prescription drugs were responsible.
Emergency services were called at 2.31pm, and she was pronounced dead in hospital 45 minutes later.
The death certificate lists the manner of death as "accident".
Her dad Paul Hill, who was one of four men wrongly convicted for IRA pub bombings in Guildford, was seen crying at his daughter's funeral.
 
Many of the Kennedy clan, including Bobby's 91-year-old widow, Ethel, attended the ceremony in Centerville, Massachusetts, US.
The 22-year-old's mum Courtney Kennedy hugged mourners outside the Our Lady of Victory Church, while Mr Hill shed tears as his girl's coffin went past him.
Ted Kennedy Jr, former Congressman Joe Kennedy Jr, and Representative Joe Kennedy lll all served as pallbearers at her funeral.
Saoirse had previously spoken about her mental health battles.
 
In 2016, while studying at Deerfield Academy, she wrote: “People talk about cancer freely; why is it so difficult to discuss the effects of depression, bi-polar, anxiety, or schizophrenic disorders?
"Just because the illness may not be outwardly visible doesn’t mean the person suffering from it isn’t struggling.
“I have experienced a lot of stigma surrounding mental health on Deerfield’s campus. As students, we have the power to end that immediately.
"Stigma places blame on the person suffering from the illness and makes them ashamed to talk openly about what they’re going through."
Mr Hill and Ms Kennedy married in 1993 four years after the Irishman was released from prison after wrongly serving 15 years behind bars.
He was one of the Guildford Four, a group of men wrongfully convicted of bombings carried out by the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) in 1974.
Four years after tying the knot, Saoirse, which means 'freedom' in Irish, was born.
