
# Blockchain Bank Appoint Interim CMO to Lead App Launch and Accelerate Growth

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:48:43+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CCN.com](https://www.ccn.com/blockchain-bank-appoint-interim-cmo-to-lead-app-launch-and-accelerate-growth/)

London, United Kingdom: November sees the appointment of David Taylor as Interim CMO at BABB (Bank Account Based Blockchain) – an aspiring blockchain-based regulated bank, situated at Level39 in London’s Canary Wharf.
Founded in 2017, BABB is on a mission to put an end to financial exclusion, provide transparency and support the underserved microeconomy. BABB is building a global banking network leveraging blockchain, biometrics and machine learning. In addition, BABB is embracing the concept of Tech for good to foster international collaboration and inter-community engagement.
An experienced hands-on Marketer, Taylor is not new to the world of FinTech. In addition to playing a key part in the Currencycloud rebrand, he led the new business marketing function; defining target markets and developing new propositions. David was previously responsible for designing and launching a global partnership program for a multiple award-winning FinTech Marketplace.  
David will be leading the Marketing function at BABB, responsible for the strategic development and management of BABB’s sales and distribution channels, delivering customer acquisition, engagement and retention campaigns while continuing to support the growth of BABB’s global presence in key markets. 
 “As we draw close to our first app release, we recognise the need for someone like David Taylor to take leadership of our go-to-market strategy implementation.” Said Rushd Averroes, BABB CEO. “He not only has the right background and proven ability to deliver, he shares our passion towards making a difference to the underserved in financial services. We are excited by this addition to the BABB team, and very much look forward to BABB’s future with our supporters and stakeholders through David’s work.” 
Taylor said of his appointment: “I’m excited to be joining such an incredible company at this stage of their journey – it is great to see such support from their community of BABBians.  
“BABB’s focus on tech for good by addressing real-world challenges across the globe are key differentiators for me – BABB is moving forward and it’s time to accelerate growth.”
Bank Account Based Blockchain (BABB) is a decentralised banking platform that leverages blockchain and biometrics to offer anyone in the world access to a UK bank account for peer-to-peer financial services. The platform will enable anyone to open a bank account and crowdsource financial services. For more information, visit www.getbabb.com. 

        
          This is a paid-for submitted press release. CCN does not endorse, nor is responsible for any material included below and isn’t responsible for any damages or losses connected with any products or services mentioned in the press release. CCN urges readers to conduct their own research with due diligence into the company, product or service mentioned in the press release.
        
      
