
# Lionel Richie to perform Belsonic gig next year

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:00:00+00:00**

Author: **SUZANNE MCGONAGLE**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/05/news/lionel-richie-to-perform-belsonic-gig-next-year-1756214/)

LIONEL Richie is to perform at Belsonic next year, bringing his biggest ever show to Belfast.
The US singer will bring his Hello! Hits Tour to the Ormeau Park venue on June 7.
Known for his hits such as Endless Love, Lady, Truly, All Night Long, Easy, Stuck on You, Say You, Say Me, Dancing on the Ceiling, the star is also set to perform at St Anne's Park in Dublin on June 6.
With more than 100 million albums sold worldwide, he also has won numerous accolades throughout his career, including an Oscar, a Golden Globe four Grammy Awards, the distinction of MusicCares Person of the Year in 2016 and Kennedy Center Honoree in 2017.
With his most recent All the Hits, All Night Long Tour, the singer sold out arenas worldwide with a set list of his brightest and best anthems.
In recent years, he has also headlined festivals including Bonnaroo, Outside Lands, and Glastonbury, drawing the festival’s biggest crowd ever with more than 200,000 attendees.
This past summer, Richie took fans on a spectacular musical journey with his new album, Live from Las Vegas along with his latest tour, the Hello! tour, which kicked off on May 28.
His latest album, which was released in August, was number one on the Billboard Artist 100 chart. Richie was also a judge on ABC's American Idol the last two seasons and has returned to the judge's chair again this year.
Tickets for the Belsonic gig go on sale on Friday from Ticketmaster outlets and www.ticketmaster.ie
