
# New Zealand rugby enters new era with challenges on and off the field

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:00:20+00:00**

Author: **Matt McILraith**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/03/new-zealand-rugby-new-era-challenges)

The new chief executive of New Zealand Rugby has more than just the All Blacks to worry about
The conclusion of a disappointing Rugby World Cup for the All Blacks signalled the end of an era off the field in New Zealand rugby, one that has arguably been even more influential than anything on it, as long-time chief executive Steve Tew heads for the exit.
Cambridge University-educated Mark Robinson, who moves from the board room to the executive chair in January, had long been touted as a potential successor. A nine-Test All Black between 2000 and 2002, a New Zealand Rugby board member since 2013 and one of New Zealand’s representatives to World Rugby, the well-regarded Robinson will bring a quiet calm to HQ, in contrast to the occasionally stormy 12-year Tew tenancy. Tew achieved much during his reign but admitted earlier in the year that there had been the odd problem with the organisational culture on his watch.
The administration’s obsession with the All Blacks, seemingly at the expense of all else, has not always gone down well with the country’s 26 provincial unions either. This irritation will only have been fuelled further by New Zealand’s failure to either beat the British & Irish Lions, or successfully defend the Rugby World Cup, in the last three years, despite much being sacrificed in provincial and Super Rugby in pursuit of those goals.
New Zealand Rugby chose Robinson after a “worldwide” search, which brought in 84 other applications. The number who applied, many of whom were no doubt from the corporate world, suggests there was an opportunity for the board to seek a change of emphasis. In going for Robinson, it opted for largely the status quo.
While the new man will bring his own ideas, he has been party to the direction the New Zealand game has headed inand so is hardly likely to instigate massive changes. Even so, he inherits the position at a testing time, with some of the challenges of his, and his governance colleagues’, making.
A new All Blacks coach must be appointed. This will be done prior to Christmas, and the decision will challenge the prevailing philosophy. Does the union continue, as it has in the recent past, retaining continuity within the All Black set up? If so, the job must go to the current assistant, Ian Foster.
A break with that path will be tempting, given the domination of the All Black coaching positions by a select few through the last four World Cup cycles. The stranglehold of the few forced many of the country’s most successful coaches to quit New Zealand in their prime, with a number going on to success guiding other nations or leading clubs, mostly in the northern hemisphere.
As someone who will work closely with the incoming man, Robinson should be on the panel that makes the appointment, and the union shouldn’t lack for applicants in what is probably the first genuinely contestable process for the position, free of internal politics, since John Mitchell was appointed 18 years ago.
The challenges facing New Zealand Rugby, and its new chief executive, stretch far beyond rebooting the All Blacks though. Even allowing for the bumper new rights deal with Sky television (NZ), the warning light is flickering on the financial front, with player payments spiralling and revenues struggling to keep up.
While (the World Cup notwithstanding) strong results in the Test, women’s and Super Rugby arena are being maintained, the release of the previously iron-cast grip on the world Under-20s title is ominous. New Zealand fell to a disastrous seventh this year in a tournament it once dominated, winning the first four events following its inception in 2008. That domination was the bedrock on which the All Blacks’ global supremacy through the last decade had been maintained, but performance has flatlined, with just two titles in eight years.
If the production line continues to be exposed at the Baby Blacks juncture, a negative impact at the development journey’s final stop with the All Blacks is inevitable. Worryingly, player numbers are declining among teenagers, which is a difficult trend to address given the numerous leisure options available and the tendency of that age group to flock together.
Robinson and his team must also find a way to redeem both Super Rugby and the domestic provincial championship in the eyes of a public who have walked away in large numbers. Attendances have dropped steadily and significantly for both competitions, to the extent that some facilities were left closed at bigger venues during the recent national provincial championship because it was uneconomic for the stadiums to operate at full capacity.
Tew, backed by the board of which Robinson was a part, gave the All Black hierarchy the loudest voice in most areas pertaining to the organising and playing of the game itself. Players were rotated in and out of a Super Rugby competition that became bloated with poor quality teams and games, while the NPC (now Mitre 10 Cup), for so long the provider of the country’s competitive advantage at international level, is now almost an All Black exclusion zone. Both are trends New Zealand Rugby must find a way of reversing, if it is to prevent further customer disengagement, and start to reconnect casual fans with their local teams.
Addressing the number of players at middle management level who are leaving well before their time is also a priority, especially with possible domestic expansion in Japan threatening to become a further drain on New Zealand’s resources.
While the All Black jersey has always been central to New Zealand rugby as a powerful and emotive unifying force, the benefits of the supposed “trickle down theory”, which holds that the rest of the game is enhanced by success at the top, are becoming harder to find with resources slimming while public engagement dims. As a board member, Robinson was party to the cycle of erosion. As chief executive, his work starts soon to reverse it.
