
# 7 Chinese kidnappers held

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:49:28+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/provincial/7-chinese-kidnappers-held)

In a report to PNP Officer-in-Charge, Lieutenant General Archie Francisco F. Gamboa, the official said that the suspects are now facing charges in connection with the kidnapping of Ming Xuangbo, a 27-year-old woman from Hebei, China who arrived in the country last month and worked as a personnel assistant at the Ekxinum Incorporation with address at Building 8314 in Zambales Highway, Upper Cubi, Subic Bay, Freeport Zone in Morong, Bataan.
Estomo said that prior to the operation which led in the rescue of the woman and the arrest of the seven suspects, another Chinese national identified as Dipeng Wang went to their headquarters in Camp Crame to report the abduction of her friend.
According to the PNP-AKG director, they were informed by Dipeng Wang that he received a call from Xuangbo who sought his help since she is being held against her will inside the Ekxinum building.
It turned out that the victim was hired as a personnel assistant at the Subic-based company with a promised monthly salary of 12,000 RMB.
However, when she learned that the company is involved in illegal online gaming, she decided to resign but was prevented by the  manager who told her she can only quit her job once she pays the company 19,000 RMB.
Estomo said that after that, the victim was held in a room where she was beaten by her compatriots. He added that the suspects also took pictures of the victim while she was being beaten.
Acting on the information, Estomo said that last Saturday, they conducted an anti-kidnapping operation in the area in coordination with Subic Bay police authorities  leading to the arrest of suspects Tang Rui Ting, 25; Zhang Yan Feng, 19; Chen Yi Ben, 29; Xiang Qing, 28; Shi Rui Long, 23;  Zhang Xiao Long, 25; and Wu Fan, 26.
