
# Parents torment kids in 'hilarious' new Snapchat trend - but some say it's abuse

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:28:13+00:00**

Author: **Luke Matthews, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/luke-matthews/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/parents-torment-kids-hilarious-new-20802730)

Snapchat filters all started off very innocently as they gave us rosy cheeks and the dogs ears one used by every girl on Tinder ever.
Over time they have slowly become more elaborate to be able to give users full makeovers, turn them into talking animals and even vomit rainbows.
The latest Halloween-themed update has been pounced on by parents as they use it to frighten the life out of their little ones - and it's dividing opinion online.
Snapchat's newest filter adds a scarily realistic giant tarantula crawling all over your face.
 
Disturbing enough for grown-ups, but add toddlers barely old enough to walk to the mix and you're left with either comedy gold or borderline child abuse, depending on the morals of those in the comments.
A video was posted on Twitter by user @Munyajiri on Halloween , showing a petrified little one crying and yelling as the adult holding the phone screams to add to the drama.
In bad news for children all over the world, the video racked up more than 18 million views and the user added: "If you’ve got a little kid nearby use this same filter. Let’s make a thread and laugh about how dumb kids are."
And so it began.
With the tweet gaining more than 328,000 retweets and 935,000 likes, others began to flood in.
Although the videos entertained many in the comments who found the thread 'hilarious', not everyone saw the funny side.
One said: "That’s just soooooo wrong poor baby nooooooo!! I feel for the baby."
Another replied: "Abuse? Anyone?"
Others suggested that the trick could cause trauma for the children targeted and lead to a life-long fear of arachnids.
The haters didn't bother the original poster, who replied to a comment which said 'that's freaking child abuse' with a photo of a man sleeping peacefully and unbothered in his bed.
