
# 'Destructive and sinful' relationships with women end Christian comedian's tour

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:15:36+00:00**

Author: **Ellie Bufkin**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/destructive-and-sinful-relationships-with-women-end-christian-comedians-tour)

Christian comedian John Crist has suspended the remainder of his 2019 tour dates after several allegations of sexual misconduct were reported.
Charisma News posted multiple detailed accounts of the 35-year-old comedian behaving in inappropriate ways toward women including harassment, sexting, and pursuing sex with married and committed women. Following the report, which was published Tuesday, Crist admitted to having a sexual addiction and pursuing multiple "destructive and sinful" conquests with women.
"Over the past number of years, various women have accused me of behavior that has been hurtful to them," Crist said in a statement. "While I am not guilty of everything I've been accused of, I confess to being guilty of this—I have treated relationships with women far too casually, in some cases even recklessly. My behavior has been destructive and sinful."
Though Crist, the son of a pastor, has always kept his stand-up sets free of foul language and sexual innuendo, as well as espousing Christian values, he has achieved mainstream success opening for Jeff Foxworthy, Seth Meyers, and Dave Chappelle.
In his statement, Crist was candid about his addiction and desire to get better. "Over several recent years, I have privately sought and received regular professional treatment for my sexual sin and addiction struggles," he said. "I'm committed to getting healing and freedom from my sin and have decided to cancel my remaining tour dates this year and to postpone all future commitments in order to devote all my time and energy on getting healthy spiritually, mentally and physically."
Watch the latest video at foxnews.com
