
# Cops hunt heavily-built yob who threatened shop staff in 'frightening' robbery

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Kirsten McStay**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/cops-hunt-heavily-built-yob-20810482)

Police are appealing for information following a robbery at a convenience store in Hamilton last night.
At around 7.20pm on Sunday, November 3, a man entered the McColl’s on Fleming Way.
He threatened staff with a weapon before demanding money from the till.
The man left the scene on foot. Nobody was injured as a result of the incident.
He is described as being of a heavy build with a bright coloured hoody.
Officers investigating the incident are now appealing for witnesses, and anyone who can help the investigation is asked to come forward.
Detective Constable Paul Mooney of Lanarkshire CID said: “This has been a very frightening experience for the staff members working within the store who have understandably been left shaken by the incident.
“The man left the area on foot and we are keen to hear from anyone who was in Fleming Way or the surrounding area on Sunday evening and who saw him, to report this to officers.
“Anyone who has any information that can help to identify and trace him, should contact police as soon as possible.”
Those with information should contact Police Scotland on 101 and quote incident number 3616 of Sunday, 3 November, 2019. Alternatively if you wish to give information anonymously, please contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.
