
# 13 Physical Workplace Elements That Support Employee Mental Health

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Coaches Council**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescoachescouncil/2019/11/07/13-physical-workplace-elements-that-support-employee-mental-health/)

Prioritizing mental health in a work environment is not only a smart choice, but also a necessary one if you want to create a culture where employees feel safe and comfortable. A work environment that supports mental well-being can result in happier, healthier employees.As an employer, the way you arrange your office can either positively or negatively contribute to your employees’ overall mindset and productivity — which can have a positive or negative effect on the quality of their work and your bottom line. So, to help set your office up for success, we asked 13 members of Forbes Coaches Council to explain what elements companies should include in their physical workspace to improve their workers’ mental health.

        1. Natural Light
      
Natural light wards off depression and improves mood, health and sleep. Ensuring that there is sufficient natural light in the office will enhance employees' mindsets and productivity. Couple natural light with views of green space or outside activity and the emotional and mental health of employees increases significantly. Changing fluorescent bulbs for natural light bulbs has a positive impact too! - Frances McIntosh, Intentional Coaching LLC

        2. A 'Quiet Room'
      
Many companies are removing the walls and going to the open concept to encourage collaboration. While this helps communication and collaboration, many employees are suffering from stimulation overload. As with all things, balance is the key. Companies who provide a quiet room help their employees find a workspace where they can think without interruption and, therefore, improve their mental health. - Susan K. Wehrley, BIZremedies

        3. Areas For Physical Activity
      
Employees that work for companies that have events and groups that give them an outlet are happier and have a better sense of well-being. A larger health insurer in my area has an on-site gym and walking stations so that employees can get up from their desks. In addition to this, there are company bowling, basketball and crochet clubs, just to name a few. - Katrina Brittingham, VentureReady LLC

        4. Mixed Work Spaces
      
Your workspace should not be a one-size-fits-all environment. Be sure to include a mixture of options for your people by offering quiet areas, social areas, spaces with and without technology. Mixed environments are ideal for most employees, as they enhance productivity and prevent isolation, and give your people options. - Jacinta Jimenez, BetterUp

        5. Humanized Decor
      
There is no need for ping-pong tables or darts. What's needed is a touch of humanity in the workplace. Ensure favorable lighting. Encourage employees to personalize their space—within tasteful limits, of course! Create opportunities for group interaction, like a weekly huddle. Be strategic and bold with color. Finally, executives should keep doors open to ensure inclusiveness and engagement. - Mary Pat Knight, Leaders Inspired

        6. A Layout Designed For Work Processes
      
Everyone's needs are different, and most people are less productive if frequently interrupted or if they feel isolated. One of the most successful interior office renovations was done by a company that surveyed its employees first and provided not only a variety of spaces, but also a process to be more productive. The key was a focus on protocols to not only focus better, but also to collaborate and socialize better as well. - Erin Urban, UPPSolutions, LLC

        7. Items That Promote Positive Energy
      
If your workspace doesn't inspire you, you'll never work to the standard you are capable of! Cubicle settings can be hard to alter, but not impossible. Surround yourself with colors, photos and familiar objects that give you positive energy. I once had a small palm tree and a "beach in a box" at my desk. When I needed a mental break, I'd play in the sand. - Miranda VonFricken, Miranda VonFricken Mastermind Coaching

        8. A Healthy Beverage Station
      
Companies can ensure their physical workplace is set up to improve the mental health of their employees by providing complimentary healthy beverages or snack options. Many companies only supply complimentary coffee for their employees, which is not healthy. Stress in the workplace affects mental health. Therefore, providing free healthy beverage options may prove beneficial for employee wellness. - Lori A. Manns, Quality Media Consultant Group LLC

        9. A Dog-Friendly Environment
      
There is plenty of scientific research that supports the fact that caring for a dog can increase happiness, make us loyal, keep us more active and can give us a sense of purpose. If you want to run a company that is healthy and where your team enjoys working, bring in a dog. - Nick Leighton, Exactly Where You Want to Be

        10. An Open Floor Plan
      
Break those walls that physically distinguish the organizational hierarchy. A hierarchy-driven physical workspace will have an unconscious and conscious impact on the mindset of employees. To me, an open workplace that brings a non-hierarchical approach can bring in collective energy, which promotes collaboration and is the breeding ground for new ideas. - Jimmy Jain, Square Sequel Consulting

        11. Recreation Rooms
      
“Play” is a great component of creativity. While many discount the idea of recreation rooms inside organizations as fruitful, if you can provide a space for collaboration, zen or perhaps even “all-out play” or comfort within your workplace, it will indeed provide the fertile ground for deep connections, collaboration and a sense of belonging, vital components for personal health. - Debbie Ince, Executive Talent Finders, Inc

        12. Spaces Aligned With Company Values
      
In order to establish a workplace where high productivity and wellness coexist effectively, companies should align their vision, guiding principles and company values to the workplace environment, and implement accountability to the care and keeping of the workspace. Aligning values affords positive behavior and well-being in the workspace, as well as a strong sense of company pride. - Lori Harris, Harris Whitesell Consulting

        13. Elements That Your Employees Want
      
When employees feel a sense of safety and trust, and when their nervous systems can relax, they'll be more engaged and do their best work. But you don't have to figure this out for them. Engage them in the process. Ask them, or a committee that they choose, to work with you to optimize their workspace. Let them research possibilities and present proposals within whatever budget you set. - Dr. Joel M. Rothaizer, MCC, Clear Impact Consulting Group
