
# Women go wild for 'purple shampoo challenge' - but it doesn't work on everyone

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:07:34+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/style/3am-fashion-celebrity-beauty/women-go-wild-purple-shampoo-20786660)

It seems not a week goes by when the internet doesn't come up with a bizarre new challenge to try.
People on TikTok, Instagram and Twitter love to test out weird and wonderful things - from throwing slices of cheese at children to creating interpretive dances to voicemails from toxic ex-boyfriends.
The latest craze spreading online is called the 'purple shampoo challenge' and those who have tried it claim that it can completely transform your hair colour.
But there's a catch - the shampoo only works on people with highlighted, blonde or grey hair.
 
Over on TikTok videos with the hashtag #PurpleShampoo have garnered thousands of views.
The clips show women squeezing copious amounts of purple shampoo onto their hands and slathering it onto dry hair, to see if it will turn their locks purple.
But this isn't how purple shampoo works.
The shampoo, which has been around for years, isn't intended to be used as a dye, but to neutralise brassy, yellow tones in coloured hair.
 
Picture if you will a colour wheel, yellow and purple are on opposite sides of the wheel and so the two cancel each other out.
Also you don't need to put the shampoo on dry hair, you can use it in the shower just like a regular shampoo.
If you want to try it out for yourself, you can purchase a bottle from your local supermarket or chemist.
Products such as L'Oreal Elvive Colour Protect Anti-Brassiness Purple Shampoo are also available to order from Amazon for £2.75.
 
Shoppers who bought the L'Oreal shampoo online were very pleased with the results.
In one review, a woman named Sonia said: "Saw this advertised on TV and read the reviews which were all good. Decided to buy from here as it was the cheapest.
"Used for the first time today and it does exactly what it says on the bottle. My hair is highlighted silver, this shampoo enhances them and my hair looks just like it did when I first had it coloured.
"Only need to use once a week and so will carry on using as makes my hair feel soft. Great product as always. Love Elvive shampoo."
Similarly Shaz gave it five stars and wrote: "Fantastic purchased the shampoo and conditioner, the shampoo foamed up lovely and left on for a couple of mins followed by the conditioner.
"Really works and helps to reduce the brassiness after you have first had highlights, really brought out the ashy highlights too, fantastic."
