
# Elderly taxi driver taken to hospital after accident along Robinson Road

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:12:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/taxi-driver-hospital-accident-robinson-road-12067808)

SINGAPORE: A 62-year-old taxi driver was taken to hospital following an accident along Robinson Road on Wednesday morning (Nov 6).
The accident involved the man's taxi and a car, according to the police, who said they were alerted to the accident at about 10am. 
The Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) said it responded to the accident at the same time and took a person to Singapore General Hospital.
The man was conscious when taken to the hospital. 
Another person was assessed by a paramedic and declined to be taken to hospital, said SCDF.
The police said investigations are ongoing.
Photos of the accident showed a silver car on its side lying across the pavement, with emergency responders at the scene. Bystanders were seen helping a man out of the vehicle.
A ComfortDelGro taxi involved in the collision had mounted the kerb and its bonnet was damaged.
There were no passengers on board the taxi when the accident happened, said Ms Tammy Tan, group chief corporate communications officer at ComfortDelGro.
"We are in touch with the passenger of the third party vehicle and our cabby. We are relieved that there was no passenger on board our taxi at the time of the incident," she said.
"We are currently investigating the incident and will also assist the Police in their investigation."
