
# Pakistani diplomats still being harassed in Kabul despite Foreign Office complaint

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:35:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/517318-Pakistani-diplomats-still-being-harassed-in-Kabul-despite-of-Foreign-Off)

QUETTA (Dunya News) – Despite of Afghan Foreign Ministry’s assurance to Pakistan that it would sort out the issue of Pakistani diplomats’ harassment in Afghanistan, frequent reports have emerged on Tuesday that Afghanistan intelligence service’s officials are still harassing Pakistani embassy personnel in Kabul and its sub-missions.
The consular section of the Pakistani embassy in Kabul is closed for the second day and consequently no visas are being issued.
Pakistan has taken up the matter with the Afghanistan’s Ministry for Foreign Affairs; however it appears that foreign ministry officials are helpless in front of Afghan secret agency as no action could be taken to stop those officials.
Statements to carry out thorough investigation into the matter are being issued by responsible officials on the one hand, and ‘unstoppable’ harassment on the other depicts dual policy of Afghanistan.
The FO on Sunday summoned the Afghan chargé d’affaires to convey serious concerns over the safety and security of embassy personnel in Kabul and its sub-missions.
According to a statement issued by the Pakistan’s Foreign Office, Pakistani diplomats were obstructed by Kabul officials on roads, often hit by anonymous motorcycles while heading towards Pakistani Embassy from their residencies in the capital city.
Sources said that Afghan intelligence officials have been using abusive language with the Pakistani diplomats.
In the light of Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities 1961, the chargé d’affaires was reminded about the responsibility of the Afghan government to ensure safety, security and freedom of movement to all members of the mission.
