
# Funeral on Friday for tv star Gay Byrne

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Marie Louise McConville**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/06/news/funeral-on-friday-for-tv-star-gay-byrne-1757473/)

The funeral of legendary TV host Gay Byrne will take place on Friday.
The 85-year-old, who was famous for his time presenting The Late Late Show and a weekend day radio show for more than 30 years, passed away on Monday following a long period of ill health.
His funeral will take place on Friday at 12pm at the Pro-Cathedral in Dublin.
Lord Mayor of Dublin Paul McAuliffe yesterday opened the book of condolence to allow people to express their sympathies to Mr Byrne's family.
Fianna Fail leader Micheal Martin and RTE broadcasters Joe Duffy and Ryan Tubridy were among the well-known faces who arrived to sign.
Crowds of fans also queued in a bid to express their sympathies.
Sharon Lee from Dublin said she was there to pay her respects to "the king of Irish radio".
"I think it's lovely that we can come here and sign a book of condolence and pay our respects to him in some way and to his wife Kathleen and their children," she said.
"It was like he was the father to us all. It was sad that he passed but we will always have fantastic memories of a wonderful man."
Sean Latten from Dublin said he had listened to Byrne since he began his career and was saddened by his death.
"My particular memory of Gay Byrne is that every year, on the first of May, he always played for our Blessed Lady, Bring Flowers of Our Rarest, an old-fashioned Catholic song and that always struck a chord with me," he said.
Tributes have continued to flood in for the Irish TV star, who retired from The Late Late Show in 1999.
He continued to work across tv and radio, on shows Who Wants To Be A Millionaire and Gaybo's Grumpy Old Men.
Following his passing, former RTÉ broadcaster Mike Murphy described the 85-year-old as a "once-off".
Speaking on RTÉ's Morning Ireland, he said: "He would never have stopped. He just wanted to continue and continue until he left the Late Late show, in whatever year it was, and I remember a few years later he said to me, do you know something, I could have kept going for another few years. He simply loved it."
TV presenter Graham Norton said: "How lucky are we that Gay found us? He could have been doing something else, he could have been doing lots of other things.
"He found television so early and had this kind of weird instinct and understood the medium completely. Those people are so rare. There was no sense of him being a 'presenter', he just was, he was just Gay Byrne on the television".
TV presenter Dara Ó Briain said Mr Byrne had a "huge" presence in Ireland, describing him as "legendary, instinctual broadcaster; that rarest thing, a gifted listener; and an interviewer of huge emotional intelligence. An enormous life" while fellow tv presenter, Eamonn Holmes described him as "the broadcaster we all wanted to be".
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
