
# Birmingham City dealt major blow for next three matches against Fulham, Huddersfield and Sheffield Wednesday

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:40:54+00:00**

Author: **Brian Dick, https://www.facebook.com/blueswriterbriandick/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/birmingham-city-dealt-major-blow-17191168)

Birmingham City will be without captain Harlee Dean for the next three matches following his dismissal in today’s 4-2 loss at Cardiff City.
After dominating the opening period of the game Blues were trailing 3-2 in second half stoppage time when Dean was shown a straight red card for a challenge on Joe Ralls.
The defender jumped up to win a header and seemed to catch the Cardiff midfielder, who would end up scoring a hat-trick, with his arm and was instantly dismissed by referee Andrew Madley.
 
That will mean Dean is suspended for next week’s visit from Fulham as well as the trips to Huddersfield and Sheffield Wednesday - unless Blues can mount a successful appeal.
It was the second red card of a feisty game, with Madley also sending off Danny Ward for a two-footed lunge on Kerim Mrabti at the start of the second period.
 
Chelsea  loan youngster Jake Clarke-Salter is the obvious candidate to come in alongside Dean’s defensive partner Marc Roberts.
The 22-year-old has made one Championship start since joining Blues in the summer.
Madley did  not endear himself to Blues at all during the game in which he awarded Cardiff a penalty from a corner and also turned down their appeals for their own spot-kick late on.
