
# Meteor shower will bring 'natural fireworks' to Devon and Cornwall tonight

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:38:15+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Hawkins**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/local-news/meteor-shower-bring-natural-fireworks-3502985)

Many of us will be braving the cold tonight to enjoy a fireworks display on Bonfire Night.
Whether it's from your garden or a park, the skies will light up across the UK later today.
However, Devon and Cornwall may get to see more than just artificial fireworks tonight thanks the Taurid Meteor Shower.
Although the annual shower lasts for two nights, it will peak this evening, The Mirror reports.
So, conveniently, you may be able to experience 'natural firework's on Bonfire Night.
Here’s everything you need to know about the Taurid Meteor Shower, including what it is, and our top tips for seeing it.
The Taurid Meteor Shower takes place from from September 7 to December 10 this year.
However, the meteor shower will peak tonight, which also happens to be Bonfire Night here in the UK!
During tonight's peak, the Taurids should produce around 5-10 meteors per hour.
There's also a First Quarter Moon tonight - a primary moon phase when we can see exactly half of the moon’s surface illuminated.
This will end shortly after midnight, so for the best chance of seeing a meteor, look to the skies in the early hours of Wednesday morning - a dark sky will make any meteors stand out a lot more.
NASA said: “Taurid meteors can be seen any time the constellation Taurus is above the horizon during the months of September, October, and November.
“The best time to look for Taurids is after midnight, when Taurus is high in the sky, and when the sky is dark and clear, with no moonlight to mask the fainter meteors.”
The Taurid Meteor Shower is actually made up of two separate streams.
The first, called the Northern Taurids, is produced by dust grains left behind by asteroid 2004 TG10, which glow brightly as they enter the Earth’s atmosphere.
Meanwhile, the second stream, called the Southern Taurus, is produced by debris left behind by Comet 2P Encke.
If you miss tonight's shower, thankfully there’s not too long to wait until the next one.
The Leonids Meteor Shower will peak on November 17, when it will produce up to 15 meteors per hour.
