
# Calgary Co-op buying Community Natural Foods

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:12:36+00:00**

Author: **Postmedia News**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/business/local-business/calgary-co-op-buying-community-natural-foods)

Calgary Co-op is buying the retail business of Community Natural Foods in a bid to expand its brand and source more locally grown goods, it said Monday.
The deal was needed to help Co-op’s food business survive in the long term by offering more unique products and strengthening its financial performance, chief executive Ken Keelor said in a release.
“This acquisition is an important step in that direction,” he said.
Keelor said for Calgary Co-op, the purchase is like “a natural extension to serving our members’ needs, especially in the area of health.”
“And of course members also financially will benefit from being able to share in the net earnings of Community Natural Foods,” he said in an interview.
Community Natural Foods was founded in 1977 by Peter and Garry Wilkes. The organic and natural food retailer expanded from a single 11th Avenue S.W. location to its current 10th Avenue site before opening stores at Chinook Station and Crowfoot Market in 2000 and 2013 respectively.
Garry Wilkes said the sale was part of a succession plan for the business.
“It’s been an amazing 42-year journey and it was my personal wish to sell to a buyer who would steward the Community Natural Foods business and brand carefully and thoughtfully,” he said. “I believe the Calgary Co-op team is the perfect fit as our two organizations share similar values and a deep connection to this community.”
Calgary Co-op said it will operate Community Natural Foods as an independent, wholly-owned subsidiary.
“Really, we look to both companies to run independently and maybe learn from each other as we go,” Keelor said.
“We’re not looking to walk in and make a whole bunch of changes. We’re looking to support the Community Natural Foods team and continue to build their business. And then for Calgary Co-op of course, we’ll learn more about natural foods and organics and that customer base.”
