
# How to watch Canelo Alvarez vs. Sergey Kovalev live stream online

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bloody Elbow**

Original: [Bloody Elbow](https://www.bloodyelbow.com/2019/11/2/20944841/watch-canelo-alvarez-vs-sergey-kovalev-live-stream-online-dazn-boxing)

WBC “franchise” and WBA middleweight champion Canelo Alvarez (52-1-2, 35 KOs) is stepping up two weight classes for a big showdown with WBO light heavyweight champion Sergey Kovalev (34-3-1, 29 KOs) in front of a very pro-Canelo crowd at the T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Alvarez is coming off a decision win over Daniel Jacobs in a unification bout, but he has since been stripped of the IBF title that he won from Jacobs for not fighting mandatory challenger Sergiy Derevyanchenko. The Mexican superstar instead opted to challenge himself at a weight class he’s never fought at before.
Kovalev lost his WBO title to Eleider Alvarez in a shocking KO loss last year, but won the belt back in their immediate rematch in February. Against Anthony Yarde, the Russian rallied from nearly getting stopped in the 8th round by knocking Yarde out in the 11th frame, much to the delight of his fellow Russians in attendance. This is a fairly quick turnaround given the Yarde bout was August 24th, but Kovalev gets a career payday and a big money fight.
Odds have Canelo as the heavy favorite, but he’s going up against a man who possesses a lethal jab and brutal punching power for his weight class. It’s an unusual matchup and at the same time quite interesting.
Here are the basic details on who’s fighting tonight (Saturday, November 2nd), how you can watch the card, where you can catch a live stream, and much more.

        
          For more boxing coverage, check out 
        
        
          
            Bad Left Hook
          
        
        
          .
        
      
Fight time: The preliminary card begins at 6:30 PM ET/3:30 PM PT. The main card then continues on DAZN at 9 PM ET/6 PM PT. It is expected that the Canelo vs. Kovalev main event will start no earlier than 1 AM ET/10 PM PT, after UFC 244 is over.
Live stream: You can watch the fight card (undercard and main card) on DAZN. The on-demand streaming service is available in the United States, Canada, Italy, Austria, Switzerland, Germany, Spain, Brazil, and Japan. New subscribers in the US can sign up for $19.99 per month, or commit for 12-months at a cost of $99.99. DAZN will live stream the prelims for free on social media. In the UK, here are the instructions to watch Sky Sports online. DAZN is compatible with computers, tablets, mobile phones, and televisions through Roku, Apple TV, Google Chromecast, iOS, Android, Xbox One, Playstation 4 and PlayStation 3.
TV Network: Sky Sports Action will carry the bout in the United Kingdom at 1 AM local time, so it’s not a PPV in that country.
Bars: DAZN partnered with Integrated Sports Media so that events could be commercially distributed. Check your local bar to see if they’re airing the fight.
Movie Theater: Yes, you can watch this fight at the movie theaters! Click here to see how you can purchase tickets at your nearest theater.
Main Card: Canelo Alvarez vs. Sergey Kovalev (12 rounds, light heavyweights), Ryan Garcia vs. Romero Duno (12 rounds, lightweights), Seniesa Estrada vs. Marlen Esparza (10x2 minute rounds, women’s flyweights), Blair Cobbs vs. Carlos Ortiz (10 rounds, welterweights)
Preliminary Card: Evan Holyfield vs. Nick Winstead (4 rounds, super welterweights); Bakhram Murtazaliev vs. Jorge Fortea (10 rounds, super welterweights); Tristan Kalkreuth vs. Twon Smith (4 rounds, cruiserweights); Bektemir Melikuziev vs. Clay Collard (8 rounds, light heavyweights); Meiirim Nursultanov vs. Cristian Olivas (10 rounds, middleweights)
Results: Check back later for a results post
Highlights: Check back later for a highlights post

        Where you can watch around the world
      

        View all 8 stories
      
