
# New Zealand 12-8 Great Britain: 5 talking points as Lions fall to second straight tour defeat

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:33:05+00:00**

Author: **Gareth Walker, https://www.facebook.com/GarethWalkerMirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-league/new-zealand-12-8-great-20793161)

Great Britain fell to a second defeat in eight days as Kenny Bromwich’s stunning late cover tackle earned New Zealand victory.
Lions winger Jermaine McGillvary looked a certain scorer when Wayne Bennett’s side fashioned a rare chance with less than four minutes remaining.
But back rower Bromwich produced a superb effort to knock the ball from McGillvary’s grasp as he dived for the line to preserve the Kiwis’ lead.
Great Britain made minimal errors throughout, but again lacked a cutting edge, having gone in level at half-time at 2-2.
Tries to Jamayne Isaako and Corey Harawira-Naera then put New Zealand in control, and despite Daryl Clark’s late response the Lions fell short again after losing to Tonga last weekend.

        Here are five talking points from the game....
      
 
Just two tries in two matches tells its own story.
Great Britain had more possession and field position than they enjoyed against Tonga seven days earlier, but could do little with it.
Time after time poor last tackle options and a lack of cutting edge saw promising positions come to nothing.
With the game on the line the tourists became more expansive in the closing stages with Jackson Hastings increasingly prominent and Daryl Clark poaching a try - but it was not enough.
The Lions have looked short on ideas throughout the tour so far despite picking a wealth of playmaking options - and now have minimal time to turn it around.
 
A key difference between the teams was undoubtedly brilliant Kiwis full-back Roger Tuivasa-Sheck.
The New Zealand Warriors star made over 100 metres in the first half alone, with his quick feet too much for the Lions defence at times.
He came up with a key play to escape from his own in goal area, and then produced a blistering second half break to create Jamayne Isaako’s opening try.
In short, RTS - as he is known Down Under - was the line breaker Great Britain were lacking.
 
New Zealand stand-off Kieran Foran was pulling a Kiwis shirt on for the first time since May 2017 after forcing his way back into contention at the expense of Shaun Johnson.
But his return was cruelly cut short when he was forced from the field in just the sixth minute after dislocating his shoulder.
It looked a devastating blow for the Kiwis to lose a key playmaker so early in the contest.
But Michael Maguire’s side adapted well with Melbourne Storm’s Jahrome Hughes stepping up alongside Benji Marshall.
 
Throughout the game, Wayne Bennett’s side were regularly frustrated by the speed of the play-the-balls as they attempted to build some momentum up front.
The issue boiled over in the closing stages when John Bateman objected to another messy ruck and ended up grappling with Roger Tuivasa-Sheck.
James Graham was asked about the issue after the game and made reference to the fact international matches only have one referee as opposed to the two in the NRL.
But, as Graham pointed out, it was the same for both sides - and New Zealand seemed to cope better.
Skipper Graham was also asked about needing a response next weekend, and answered that the Lions have little option.
After 12 years without playing, the triumphant return of Great Britain rugby league is in danger of fizzling out forgettably.
Consecutive defeats to Tonga and New Zealand are bad enough, but the style of play has failed to enthuse supporters and matches have been played in half empty stadiums.
The tour now moves to Christchurch and it needs a major lift on all fronts
