
# Watch Europa League Online, On TV & Abroad: Man Utd vs Partizan

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Anyron Copeman**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/how-to/entertainment/watch-europa-league-online-tv-abroad-3677306/)

The Europa League has returned. The second-tier European competition is back for its 11th season since rebranding, with 48 teams vying for the trophy.
English teams Manchester United, Arsenal and Wolves are all in the group stages this year, alongside Celtic and Rangers and seasoned European sides such as Sevilla and Roma. 
Chelsea, the holders, are competing in the Champions League in 2019/20.
BT Sport has the exclusive rights to all 207 Europa League matches, so it’s the only place to watch the competition. 
You can gain access to BT Sport whether you’re planning on getting broadband too or not.
The cheapest combined package is currently £39.99 a month for 24 months, increasing to £47.99 thereafter.
This includes line rental and access to all four BT Sport channels on BT TV, as well as a year’s free Amazon Prime subscription. Do note that this includes a one-off setup fee of £69.99.
Check out the rest of the deals on BT Sport on TV, including if you just want access via the app.
If you want access to BT Sport via your existing Sky box, you can easily do so by updating your viewing card.
Here’s the official Europa League fixture list for the 2019/20 season. This is an easy way to follow the upcoming fixtures, especially considering you know that they will all be shown on BT Sport.
Here are the key fixtures for Matchday 3, complete with kick-off times:
If you’re a British viewer going abroad and want to watch using your existing package, you can use a VPN. This will mean you can still appear as if you're in the UK and retain access to all the location-restricted content.
Nord VPN is one of our top recommendations, but you can check out our best VPN chart, which shows you some of the best services for accessing UK content from abroad.
Unfortunately, there are not many options available if you want to watch the Champions League for free.
There is no alternative if you'd like to watch on a pay-as-you-go basis, as Sky Sports offers with Now TV. Also, since ITV lost the rights to their highlights package in 2017 there is no coverage on free-to-air television.
However, BT has reiterated its commitment to make as much of its coverage available to as many people as possible. Clips are regularly shared across the BT Sport social media accounts, with highlights available on YouTube minutes after the final whistle.
The final will also be live streamed to the same channel.
