
# Shoppers run in terror as electrical fire sparks explosion outside Tim Hortons

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:54:56+00:00**

Author: **Tony Larner, Sanjeeta Bains, Rakeen Hyatt, Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/shoppers-run-terror-electrical-fire-20793143)

Shoppers ran for their lives when an electrical fire sparked a series of explosions outside a coffee shop in Birmingham city centre.
Dramatic footage captured the blaze at New Street today shows smokes emerged from underground as the fire triggers sparks that sound like 'gunshots and fireworks'.
Customers from the Tim Hortons cafe, as well as the nearby Starbucks and Hotel Chocolat, had to evacuate the area.
West Midlands Fire responded to the scene and cut off energy in nearby buildings at around 4:30pm.
A cordon was put in place around the Tim Hortons cafe at Lower Temple Street and New Street and a team of eight firefighters managed to contain the blaze in short period of time, according to Birmingham Live .
Western Power Distribution said the fire started due to a fault in a low voltage cable underground.
A spokesman from the company said: "It was a low voltage cable to a link box. When we got there it was smoking.
"We will be repairing it. We will put a cordon around the link box, dig it out and repair it.
"It will be this evening. It is safe. We will try to get customers back on."
Canadian coffee shop Tim Hortons also issued a statement which read: "On early evening on Friday 1 November, a fire began outside the Tim Hortons Birmingham New Street restaurant.
"The restaurant was evacuated immediately, and the fire services are at the scene following an electrical fault being identified underground.
"There have been no reported injuries and a cordon is in place while the fire service carries out their work."
Taxi driver Shazad Ali said: “My taxi was parked right at front when the explosion happened.
“I was first one there. It happened around 4.30pm. There were two or three electrical explosions coming out the drain cover outside Tim Hortons - I saw fire flames sparks coming out of the ground - really terrifying."
