
# UFC VP Jeff Novitzky: Greg Hardy won’t be allowed to use inhaler at UFC Moscow

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Milan Ordoñez**

Original: [Bloody Elbow](https://www.bloodyelbow.com/2019/11/7/20952743/ufc-vp-jeff-novitzky-greg-hardy-wont-be-allowed-to-use-inhaler-at-ufc-moscow-mma-news)

Greg Hardy caused a stir three weeks ago at UFC Boston when he used an inhaler in the middle of his fight against Ben Sosoli. Because of it, his unanimous decision win was overturned to a No Contest verdict.
“The Prince of War” defended his inhaler use during the post-fight scrum, stating it didn’t benefit him. During a pre-fight scrum for UFC 244 last week, UFC Vice President of Athlete Health and Performance Jeff Novitzky also confirmed that the albuterol in Hardy’s inhaler isn’t a USADA banned substance.
“In my world, in the USADA world, no [it’s not illegal], so that substance is allowed at all times, in and out of competition, as long as you keep it under a certain level,” Novitzky said (via MMA Fighting). “I think it’s 800 micrograms per 12 hours. Each puff of an inhaler is 90. Unless you’re puffing a dozen times, you’re going to stay under that.
“The other issue, obviously the commission issue, and I think we all saw on tape that he asked the inspector, who’s part of the commission, could he do this, and the inspector said yes. But my understanding (is) technically, you can’t do that, and the inspector was misinformed. I think because he used that substance, I guess against the rules of the commission is my understanding.”
Nonetheless, Novitzky also said that the inhaler wouldn’t be allowed inside the cage.
“No, he wouldn’t be allowed to use it. It’s not an anti-doping [situation]. It’s a commission rule,” Novitzky clarified.
“I think it would be OK and most commissions would be OK you took a puff in the back before you walked out, but I don’t think any commission allows any substances other than bottled water inside [the cage].”
Hardy stepped in as a last-minute replacement for former heavyweight champion Junior Dos Santos to face Alexander Volkov. The two will co-headliner UFC Moscow this Saturday, November 9th.

        View all 5 stories
      
