
# Graeme Murty singles out the Rangers youngster who lit up dominant Slovan Bratislava victory

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:14:52+00:00**

Author: **Liam Bryce, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/liam-bryce/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/graeme-murty-singles-out-rangers-20830349)

Graeme Murty heaped praise on Rangers youngster Kai Kennedy after a standout display in the win over Slovan Bratislava.
The Ibrox U-19 side defeated the Slovakians 2-0 in the first leg of the UEFA Youth League second round at Firhill.
Goals from Dapo Mebude and Nathan Young Coombes were just reward for a commanding performance that left Murty delighted.
The coach was impressed with Kennedy's willingness to exploit space and his link-up with goalscorer Mebude.
Both players have trained with Steven Gerrard's first team and were key in last season's SFA Youth Cup victory.
And Murty told Rangers TV: “The boys did a good job in difficult conditions. The pitch was very, very slick and I thought they managed that very, very well.
“I thought they managed our opponents throughout the 90 minutes really, really well and our only slight frustration – and it is only slight, is that we didn’t punish them a little bit more.
“I think we could have been a little bit more clinical and put some chances away because some of our play was really good.
“Some of our combination play in their final third was excellent, though we weren’t clinical enough. The guys know that and they are a little bit frustrated by it, but I thought we were the better team over the piece.
“I was a little bit frustrated at half-time as I didn’t think we were accessing the areas of the pitch we practiced.
“It sometimes happens with young and senior players that they get into the game and they kind of want to do what they want to do rather than the areas that we talked about.
“I thought once we accessed the other side of the pitch better, we isolated opponents better, though I thought in the first-half, Kai Kennedy in particular was really, really good at seizing opportunities to drive into good spaces and his combination with Dapo and his play in and around the box is very, very good and is a very high standard.
“I thought he played very well tonight and we just needed that extra touch at times because of the surface and that killed our combinations at times."
