
# Sonny Bill Williams joins Toronto Wolfpack

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:20:24+00:00**

Author: **RugbyPass**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/its-official-sonny-bill-williams-joins-toronto-wolfpack)

All Blacks midfielder Sonny Bill Williams has given thanks to the New Zealand rugby community and fans following the announcement that he will leave New Zealand to play overseas.
34-year-old Williams has signed a two-year deal with the Canada-based Toronto Wolfpack rugby league club which plays in the UK Super League competition.
“I have been privileged and blessed to have been given so many opportunities in New Zealand rugby, starting with Canterbury back in 2010, as well as the Crusaders and Chiefs, Counties Manukau and, of course, the Blues and All Blacks. I’d like to thank all those fans in New Zealand and around the world who have supported me,” Williams said.
“I’ve also appreciated the support of many people at NZR, particularly the Chairman Brent Impey and Head of Professional Rugby Chris Lendrum. Brent is a thoughtful person who I’ve enjoyed talking to about issues affecting our game, while Chris has been awesome to deal with over the years, has always been fair with me, and I’ve always been grateful for his support.

        Click here to see the video
      
“I’d also like to thank everyone involved in the All Blacks family. I never dreamed that I’d play in the black jersey for ten years playing alongside some of the legends of the game, and I’m grateful for the support of so many people in helping me grow as a footy player over that time.
“Finally, to the players I’ve been privileged enough to play with. I’ve enjoyed every moment being with the brothers and that will be the biggest thing I will miss: the camaraderie and fun with my fellow players and being privileged to suit up with them and go out and do what we love. It’s been a pleasure.
“Alhamdulillah, I have been blessed.”
