
# Boris Johnson launches general election campaign without a seatbelt in £300k Jag

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:14:43+00:00**

Author: **Ben Glaze, Dan Bloom, https://www.facebook.com/MirrorPolitics, https://www.facebook.com/mirrordanbloom**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/boris-johnson-launches-general-election-20789594)

Boris Johnson launched the Tories’ election campaign with a video of him inside his chauffeur-driven Jaguar in a blue-light convoy.
The 61-second film was shot in the back of his bomb-proof XJL Sentinel as it sped through London’s darkened streets with traffic held back by his police motorcycle outriders.
The Prime Minister is shown with his arms folded, sunk into the heated, cushioned, black leather massage seat of the £300,000 luxury motor - without wearing a seat belt - as his security bubble insulates him from the public.
The gas guzzling, five-litre, supercharged limousine glides him through the capital as a lackey films the bizarre mini-movie.
The lack of a seatbelt led to claims he should strap in to set an example.
Asked about the case, Joshua Harris of Brake, the road safety charity, said: “Seat belts have been proven to be the most effective way of keeping yourself safe in a crash.
"So we urge all drivers and passengers to always buckle up, regardless of the individual or the situation."
 
 
It is against the law not to wear a seatbelt and those caught can be fined £100 - rising to £500 if the case ends up in court.
But Boris Johnson may have a get out from claims he broke the law - because there is an exemption for “a vehicle being used for police, fire and rescue services”.
His limo is driven by a highly-skilled Met Police officer and uses blue lights.
Brake is campaigning for the law to be toughened up with penalty points on the licence of those who do not buckle up. “Tragically nearly four people a week needlessly die on our roads when not belted up," Mr Harris said.
One Twitter user even copied in the Metropolitan Police about the PM - once branded "not the man you want driving you home" by Amber Rudd. No10 declined to comment.
 
Meanwhile the choice of a protected convoy for his video, hours after he was confronted by a medical student at a hospital, led to mockery of the Tory leader from his enemies being out of touch.
One Labour activist said on Twitter: "He says from the comfort of his 350k bulletproof jag with at least another 40k spent on security today at Addenbrooks."
Guardian columnist Rafael Behr joked: "The PM appears to be launching his election bid literally from the back of a chauffeur-driven car. Is it possible they are not actually very good at this?"
In the video, Boris Johnson tries to blame Labour for stalling progress of his Brexit deal in Parliament.
He claims he can get an "oven-ready" deal swiftly through the House of Commons if he is returned with a majority on December 12.
The film was recorded hours after Jeremy Corbyn railed against elites as he kicked off Labour’s fight for power.
Mr Corbyn said: “The Prime Minister wants you to believe that we’re having this election because Brexit is being blocked by an establishment elite.
“People aren’t fooled so easily - they know the Conservatives are the establishment elite.
“And you know what really scares the elite? All of us, the British people.
