
# Who is Lindsay Hoyle? Commons speaker elected by MPs to replace John Bercow

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:24:37+00:00**

Author: **Mikey Smith, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mikey-smith/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/who-lindsay-hoyle-commons-speaker-20811426?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

Lindsay Hoyle, the newly elected Speaker of the House of Commons, has taught his pet parrot Boris to shout “order order!”
Also in the new Speaker’s menagerie are a Patterdale terrier named after former Speaker Betty Boothroyd, a rottweiler named Gordon, cats named Dennis and Patrick and a tortoise named Maggie.
He named the tortoise after the late Tory Prime Minister because she had a hard shell and was "not for turning".
Sir Lindsay, knighted in 2018 for for parliamentary and political services, prompted raised eyebrows recently, when he posted a bizarre picture of himself watching the Rugby World Cup final in which he was facing away from the TV, beside a distant cup of tea no human could reach.
 
The Lancashire-born businessman went to private Lord's College in Bolton and ran his own screen-printing firm before becoming an MP in 1997.
He has been a Deputy Speaker for nine years where his no-nonsense manner led to clashes with MPs - including telling off the SNP for singing EU anthem Ode to Joy in 2017.
In the same week he had a fierce clash with ex-SNP leader Alex Salmond, with the pair shouting at each other across the chamber over time slots given to Brexit scrutiny.
Despite this Mr Hoyle is generally regarded as a popular figure who hasn't made enemies in the same way as Bercow.
And he’s been widely complimented for his approach to handling Budget debates, which has been part of his job as Chairman of Ways and Means.
He was in the Speaker’s chair at the time of the Westminster Terror Attack of 22 March 2017 - and the subsequent lockdown of the Houses of Parliament.
 
There was an outpouring of tributes in 2017 when his 28-year-old daughter Natalie was found dead.
An inquest recorded an open verdict, but heard she was involved in a “toxic” relationship before her death.
Speaking in the Commons last year, her MP John Whittingdale said: "At the end of last year my constituent Natalie Lewis-Hoyle, the daughter of Councillor Miriam Lewis and our right honourable friend the member for Chorley took her own life having been in a coercive relationship and suffered mental abuse in what is known as gaslighting."
He called for more awareness of this kind of abuse in which a perpetrator tries to sow seeds of doubt in their victim so they begin to doubt their own sanity.
And he asked then-Prime Minister Theresa May to support ‘Chat with Nat’, a charity set up by Natalie's mum to help other victims who feel they have no where to turn.
Mrs May replied by offering the condolences of the whole House to Natalie's family and she told MPs: "I'm happy to offer my full support to this project I'm sure that it's going to provide much needed help and advice to those who are in the most difficult and painful of circumstances."
Mr Hoyle was one of just three Labour MPs who did not declare their voting intention in the 2016 EU referendum. His Lancashire district backed Brexit by 57% to 43%.
