
# Pixel 4 mods enable face unlock in any app, Motion Sense in more regions for rooted users

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:14:51+00:00**

Author: **Kyle Bradshaw**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/01/pixel-4-root-mods-force-face-unlock-motion-sense/)

With the recent launch of the Google Pixel 4, many were excited by all of the things that the flagship phone could do, like Face Unlock and Motion Sense gestures. Unfortunately, we quickly found out that these features had some serious limitations. If you have a rooted Pixel 4, however, the limitations on what apps can use Face Unlock and which regions allow Motion Sense can be bypassed with mods.
Before the Google Pixel 4 reached stores around the world last month, the tech community dug in and found that there were some serious limitations in place on both Face Unlock and Motion Sense. Namely, there are only a small handful of apps on the Play Store with support for using Face Unlock as an authentication method, and Motion Sense is only allowed to run in certain regions around the world.
For power users and Android enthusiasts though, it was only a matter of time before these were bypassed. The Pixel 4 root and Xposed communities have worked to create mods that open Motion Sense to all and bring Face Unlock to more apps.
When fingerprint authentication was brought to Android, back in the Marshmallow days, it was introduced as a fingerprinting-specific API, “FingerprintManager.” As of Android 10, there’s now a more general “BiometricManager” API that handles fingerprint authentication along with other forms like the Pixel 4’s Face Unlock. However, most apps that use fingerprints still use the older FingerprintManager.
While Google is doing their best to encourage developers to use the newer biometric APIs through AndroidX, in the meantime, rooted Pixel 4 owners can install a mod that tricks apps into using Face Unlock. Shared by XDA-Developers, an Xposed Module with the crudely clever name of “Fingerface” —developed by SemonCat then improved by John Wu — does two simple tricks under the hood to enable Face Unlock everywhere that uses fingerprinting.
First, if an app checks if your phone has a fingerprint sensor, which the Pixel 4 does not, Fingerface tricks that app into thinking that it does. Second, when the app calls for the FingerprintManager API, Fingerface redirects that call through to BiometricManager, which should handle your Pixel 4’s Face Unlock — or any other biometric authentication options — as normal. As you can see in a provided example video, the results are almost too good to be true.
