
# England 12 South Africa 32 as Springboks crush the favourites in dominant World Cup final

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:01:18+00:00**

Author: **Gabriel McKay**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/rugby/england-12-south-africa-32-20793492)

South Africa are rugby world champions after a dominant performance in the World Cup final saw them swat England aside 32-12.
Eddie Jones' side were narrow favourites going into the game but they failed to score a single try as the Springboks defence gave nothing away.
Two second half tries gave the scoreline the emphatic nature the Springboks play warranted, with Siyamthanda Kolisi becoming the latest South African to lift the World Cup as captain.
It was clear from the opening exchanges that this just wasn't going to be England's day, South Africa sent a penalty kick just wide of the posts and England were forced into an early change.
Kyle Sinckler took an almighty blow to the head from Maro Itoje's shoulder while putting in a tackle on Makazole Mapimpi and appeared to be seeing stars.
The tight head managed to walk off the pitch himself but was rightly replaced by Dan Cole.
South Africa were making all the early pressure and Handre Pollard put the first points of the game on the board.
England were guilty of some careless possession near to their own try line and the result was a penalty. This time Pollard made no mistake with his kick as Jones' men struggled to get into the game.
It took 20 minutes for England to finally get a foothold, winning a lineout and being awarded a penalty after Kolbe stuck his hands in on the floor.
Owen Farrell levelled the scores and the South Africans were forced into a double change as Bongi Mbonambi suffered a concussion and Lood de Jager injured his arm. Malcom Marx and Franco Mostert were called from the bench after a very physical opening period.
The Springboks soon took the lead again, Pollard converting yet another penalty, but it took some brilliant defending to stop England getting the first try of the game.
Billy Vunipola was within centimetres of forcing it over the line but the South African defence stood firm and England had to content themselves with a converted Owen Farrell penalty after an incredible 25 phases in which they failed to convert the try.
That proved costly as two consecutive penalties were conceded from the scrum and Pollard's unerring accuracy gave the Springboks a 6-12 lead at the break.
Early in the second half South Africa made two changes at prop, and once again England gave away a penalty in the scrum.
Pollard's right boot was again unerring and England found themselves nine points behind. Marler replaced Vunipola to try and address the issues in the scrum, but England had a mountain to climb.
The change paid dividends though as this time it was the Springboks who were penalised in the scrum and Farrell reduced the arrears. He had another chance with a quickfire second penalty but this time the England captain sent it wide.
From a chance to go within three England soon found themselves nine behind once again with yet another penalty from Pollard.
The final was turning into a duel between the two kickers, with Farrell converting his sixth penalty of the game to keep the contest alive.
South Africa killed the contest with 15 minutes to play with the first try of the game - and what a try it was.
Mapimpi punted one over the top for Lukhanyo Am, who cleverly returned the ball just as an English tackle came in. After a TMO check for a possible forward pass the try was deemed good and Pollard had no issues with the conversion.
It soon became a thrashing, with Cheslin Kolbe putting the Springboks into a 20 point lead.
Once again England were sloppy in possession and Slade dropped the ball under South African pressure.
It rolled nicely for Kolbe who showed tremendous pace to break through a weak England tackle and catapulted over the line.
The Springboks knew they had it won and played out time comfortably enough to win the World Cup for the third time in their history.
