
# Kieran Tierney explains Scotland absence as Arsenal star insists Unai Emery has made him a better player

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Liam Bryce, Neil McLeman, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/liam-bryce/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/kieran-tierney-explains-scotland-absence-20831146)

Kieran Tierney insists a need for rest is behind his Scotland absence as he hopes to return for the playoffs in March.
Arsenal requested the left-back not be called up for dead rubber Euro 2020 qualifiers against Cyprus and Kazakhstan amid an "ongoing issue".
But the 22-year-old form Celtic star has made two appearances in four days for his club, completing 90 minutes in a 1-1 Europa League draw with Vitoria SC on Wednesday.
Tierney's comeback from an extended injury lay-off - which included a double hernia operation and a long-term pelvic issue - is being carefully managed but Steve Clarke couldn't help but admit his frustration.
The defender, however, is adamant the decision will carry long-term benefits and is optimistic he'll be available for the next squad.
Tierney said: "They (Scotland) understand. Of course you want to play for your national team, but you need to do what is best for your career long term.
"Tonight this my second game in kind of three, four days so near the end I was tiring.
"It is probably the right decision as now I am going into the international break knowing I am getting a rest and recovery, because since my operation the load has went up, up and up.
"To get a rest would be beneficial and hopefully for the next camp I’m ready."
 
As his integration into Unai Emery's first team continues, Tierney admits to feeling the pace.
He's played every minute of their last three Europa League fixtures, as well as starting in the previous two Premier League games.
But that won't stop the full-back giving his all as he insisted Emery has already made him a better player.
"I feel comfortable," Tierney said. "As I say at the end I was tiring, but I try and give 100 per cent.
"I don’t save myself for maybe the last 15 minutes. I have given my all and if I tire, I tire.
"Just near the end I was just a wee bit tiring, which is understandable from the load that I have done coming back and coming into Premier League games as well. It is hard."
Bruno Duarte's stoppage time strike Arsenal surrendered a lead for the fourth time in six games and piled further pressure on beleaguered Emery.
The past week has been overshadowed by Granit Xhaka's row with fans the Swiss midfielder subsequently being stripped of the captaincy.
Tierney, however, is adamant their fortunes can turn this Saturday as he prepares for a reunion with his former Celtic boss Brendan Rodgers and his high-flying Leicester City side.
Asked if Emery can inspire a revival, Tierney replied: "Yeah, of course. It is up to us as players to correct it on the pitch. For me, he (Emery) has been brilliant since I’ve come in.
"I have learned a lot. I am learning a lot every day, playing with great players. Everybody in the changing room has got belief in each other and the manager.
"Everybody is trying to stay positive, as positive as they can. We know there is a lot going on that people are talking about.
"But we just need to forget about all that and concentrate on us, concentrate on bouncing back and concentrate on giving the fans something to cheer about.
"In football it doesn’t always go your way, but we have got another chance on Saturday."
