
# New Street evacuated after electrical fire sparks explosions outside Tim Hortons

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:23:41+00:00**

Author: **birminghammail.co.uk**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/new-street-evacuated-after-electrical-17187889)

Shoppers 'ran screaming' from Tim Hortons coffee shop after an electrical fault sparked a fire and explosions outside.
Flames were seen shooting up from the pavement outside the premises, which opened earlier this year.
A cordon is now in place, with police, fire and ambulance now at the scene.
Tim Hortons issued a statement: "On early evening on Friday 1 November, a fire began outside the Tim Hortons Birmingham New Street restaurant.
"The restaurant was evacuated immediately, and the fire services are at the scene following an electrical fault being identified underground.
"There have been no reported injuries and a cordon is in place while the fire service carries out their work."
Taxi driver Shazad Ali said: “My taxi was parked right at front when the explosion happened.
“I was first one there. It happened around 4.30pm. There were two or three electrical explosions coming out the drain cover outside Tim Hortons - I saw fire flames sparks coming out of the ground - really terrifying.
“People inside the store started screaming and running out. It was a good 10 mins before fire engine arrived.
"Five minutes after the explosion police arrived started moving everyone back and told me I had to leave cab because it was too dangerous.”
West Midlands Fire Service were contacted just after 4.20pm and crews from Ladywood and Aston are on the scene.
No one is believed to have been hurt.
Tesco, Oasis, Muji, Jack Wills have been evacuated while emergency services deal with what has been described as an ‘electrical fire.’
The Apple Store remains open.
Access to Grand Central station has been restricted through one door.
Blaine Steede, 30, was in Kings Barbers above Starbucks getting a hair cut , when he saw the fire.
He said: I saw flames coming out of the drains. The police who are usually in the car opposite started diverting people away from the drain.
“The blocked off Bennetts Hill and the alleyway next to Tesco. They have evacuated buildings”
