
# UFC 244 Full Fight Video: Watch Derrick Lewis Knock Out Alexander Volkov

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/01/ufc-244-full-fight-video-watch-derrick-lewis-knock-out-alexander-volkov/)

Derrick Lewis began his UFC career on a 3-2 run. Then in 2015, Lewis found his footing. He won six fights in a row with five of those victories coming by way of knockout. In 2017 he was on the wrong end of a knockout loss to Mark Hunt. Lewis bounced back from that loss with a third-round TKO victory over Marcin Tybura. After a decision win over Francis Ngannou, Lewis had climbed to the No. 2 spot in the official UFC heavyweight rankings. Lewis seemed to be closing in on a title shot. When he was matched up against the No. 5 ranked Alexander Volkov at UFC 229, it was not a stretch to think Lewis was one-fight away from fighting for the heavyweight crown.Volkov, the former Bellator and M-1 Global heavyweight champion, joined the UFC in 2016. He won his first four fights with the promotion. Volkov's bonus-winning knockout victories over Stefan Struve and former champion Fabricio Werdum put him on the fast track toward the top of the heavyweight rankings.
Lewis was in trouble early in the first round and never really got things going. By the time the third stanza began, Lewis was running on fumes. It looked as if he was on his way to taking the loss. Lewis was left with no choice but to look for the knockout. As the clock ticked down, Lewis had landed fewer than 10 significant strikes in the round, while Volkov was over 40. And then, with 17 seconds left in the fight, Lewis found Volkov with a jab and a cross that dropped Volkov to his back. Lewis then teed off with a flurry of ground strikes to score the come from behind knockout victory. The official end time for the bout was 4:49 of the third round.
Lewis went on to fight Daniel Cormier for the heavyweight title less than a month after that win, but he was submitted in the second round. In his next outing, Junior dos Santos knocked out Lewis in the second stanza of their March contest. 
Lewis had surgery to repair his injured knee after that loss. On Saturday, Lewis returns to action to face Blagoy Ivanov on the pay-per-view portion of the UFC 244 fight card. 
UFC 244 takes place Saturday at New York's Madison Square Garden. The pay-per-view card airs on ESPN+ following prelims on ESPN2 and ESPN+.
Before that fight takes place watch Lewis' comeback win over Volkov. 
More From UFC 244:
