
# Signs that Princess Beatrice's wedding won't be as lavish as other royal ceremonies

Published at: **2019-11-03T07:26:09+00:00**

Author: **Talia Shadwell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/talia-shadwell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/signs-princess-beatrices-wedding-wont-20765583)

Speculation is swirling that Prince Beatrice's upcoming nuptials will be a modest affair by royal wedding standards.
In recent weeks multiple reports have suggested Beatrice, who is ninth in line to the throne, may opt out of royal protocol and hold her wedding reception in a marquee in the garden of her parents' home.
It's believed the couple want to avoid a spectacle after taxpayers' fury over the £2 million splashed on police to secure her younger sister Eugenie's wedding, and intense focus on their father, Prince Andrew.
A cloud still hangs over her father Prince Andrew as scrutiny about his friendship with disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein lingers.
 
Beatrice, 31, is not near the top of the queue of successors to the throne, and so was not required to ask the Queen for permission to marry.
There is less pressure on Wills' and Harry's cousins to follow traditional royal protocols as they are distant successors to the throne.
Beatrice has been said to want a quieter, more private wedding than her sister's.
Eugenie faced humiliation when she was turned down by the BBC for TV coverage of her nuptials.
Reports have speculated Beatrice may avoid the risks of the inevitable spotlight for a more lavish wedding likely to irritate taxpayers sceptical about royal spending.
 
Some say Beatrice is considering opting for a marquee at her parents' home for the reception at the rear of the Royal Lodge at Windsor.
She is due to be wed to her love Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi in 2020, and tradition would have her father walk her down the aisle. 
But with the wedding on the horizon, Buckingham Palace will be wary of the questions about Andrew's links to his financier friend Jeffrey Epstein that steadfastly persist.
The Duke of York has attempted to distance himself from pal Epstein, 66, who was found dead in his prison cell in  New York in August, where he was held pending facing sex charges.
 
Prince Andrew has repeatedly denied the allegations by Epstein accuser Virginia Giuffre which first surfaced in court papers in 2015.
Mrs Giuffre [nee Roberts] has claimed she was trafficked by Epstein to have sex with his rich and famous friends.
Andrew has persistently denied allegations that he had sex with her when she was 17.
Her allegations about the duke were struck from the US court record in 2015 after a judge branded them “immaterial and impertinent”.
However they resurfaced when police in New York arrested Epstein and charged him with sex trafficking offences.
 
Andrew said regarding Epstein in a previous statement: "At no stage during the limited time I spent with him did I see, witness or suspect any behaviour of the sort that subsequently led to his arrest and conviction."
Buckingham Palace added at the time: "It is emphatically denied that the Duke of York had any form of sexual contact with Virginia Roberts. Any claim to the contrary is false and without foundation."
A US Federal Appeals Court has warned that allegations in court papers should not be understood as firm findings.
The royals will likely to be eager to avoid another scandal after facing backlash over public spending on policing Princess Eugenie's wedding to Jack Brookbanks.
With sister Beatrice marrying a multimillionaire, there is speculation afoot that the royals will be under pressure to avoid taxpayers footing the bill for the proceedings.
One palace source suggested reaction to Beatrice's engagement announcement had so far been "a muted affair".
 
The fallout following the revelations of £2million of taxpayer funds being used to cater for security for Princess Eugenie's wedding has put the palace "on high alert" after the engagement for the ninth in line to the throne.
The source said: "It's fair to say that despite everyone being incredibly happy for Beatrice on a personal level, the reaction to dealing with the potential wedding has been a muted affair.
"The size of the wedding needs to be in line with public opinion given the amount of money spent on security for Eugenie's wedding last year.
"It would be a big surprise if the wedding was of the same level.
"Everyone has been on high alert since the engagement announcement but it seems Beatrice has already made clear that she doesn't want the same level of ceremony as her sister had. This will be a much more low key affair."
 
Daily Mirror Royal Editor Russell Myers believes Beatrice's wedding is  likely to be a low key affair following her sister's lavish nuptials.
He said: "Beatrice has made quite clear she wants to do things her way, which conveniently will settle heart rates at the palace.
"It's a huge undertaking planning a royal wedding, with months of preparation needed and fielding the usual valid questions over exactly how much the taxpayer is forking out for the privilege of someone way down the order of succession.
"It's been a busy year for the Yorks following Eugenie's wedding and the resulting fallout over the £2million security bill.
"Rumours have continued to swirl over the Duchess of York's relationship with her ex-husband alongside Fergie turning up to more family events and gushing on social media about Andrew.
"The latter two have probably helped his PR cause over the huge embarrassment of his relationship with paedophile Jeffrey Epstein, which continues to plague the family in the background.
 
"Andrew will of course want the very best for his daughter and I imagine no expense will be spared.
"However, we can expect a very different affair from Eugenie's wedding, including the absence of a carriage ride and without the added embarrassment of trying to get a television network interested to no avail."
Reports also suggest that Beatrice may not be furnished with a designer wedding dress, bucking a royal trend.
A palace source told Radar: “At this point, rather embarrassingly, the response has been lukewarm and it looks like she might have to actually pay and design it for herself.”
The Mail on Sunday reported in early October that Beatrice has already said she would prefer a low-key venue to host her wedding reception and may even opt for a marquee in the back of her parent's home.
Prince Andrew and Duchess of York Sarah Ferguson are separated, but have remained friendly over the years.
The girls' mother, known as Fergie, has a limited royal role due to a series of scandals peaking with the Duchess being caught offering an undercover reporter access to Prince Andrew for a reported £500,000 in 2010.
However, Fergie is said to remain close with the Queen, and was invited to Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding last year, after being excluded from Wills and Kate's big day in 2011.
