
# Xi Jinping Endorses Carrie Lam, Embattled Leader of Hong Kong

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:16:32+00:00**

Author: **Keith Bradsher and Chris Buckley**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/04/world/asia/china-xi-lam-hong-kong.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

SHANGHAI — President Xi Jinping of China publicly backed the beleaguered leader of Hong Kong on Monday, in his most direct public comments so far on the pro-democracy protests that have shaken the city for months and raised doubts about her political survival.
Mr. Xi gave his endorsement while meeting Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, in Shanghai on Monday night, ahead of a trade show that Mr. Xi will open there, Xinhua, the official Chinese news agency, reported.
Mrs. Lam briefed Mr. Xi on developments in Hong Kong, where demonstrators have protested for 22 weeks to demand the introduction of wider democracy in the semiautonomous city, which falls under Chinese sovereignty as a “special administrative region.”
If Mr. Xi had any criticisms of Mrs. Lam’s handling of the protests, they were not revealed by Xinhua. In the face of the tumult, he told Mrs. Lam, “you have led the government of the special administrative region in diligently carrying out duties and striving to stabilize the situation,” according to the news agency.
“The central leadership has high confidence in you, and fully affirms the work of you and your administrative team,” Mr. Xi said. “Halting the violence and restoring order remain the most important duty in Hong Kong at present.”
At the same time, Mr. Xi reminded Mrs. Lam of Beijing’s support for a stern approach to the protests, which have grown increasingly violent in the face of heavy-handed policing. He “demanded unswerving efforts to stop and punish violent activities in accordance with the law,” according to Xinhua.
Mrs. Lam’s tenure as Hong Kong’s top official, or chief executive, depends on the effective blessing of Mr. Xi, and his public endorsement may offer relief after persistent rumors that he may press her to step down after the protests subside.
Still, Mrs. Lam’s survival may depend on going along with plans that Chinese leaders announced last week to impose tougher “national security” measures on Hong Kong. That step could give fresh impetus to the protesters, whose demands have included Mrs. Lam’s resignation and democratic elections for the chief executive and for the Hong Kong Legislative Council.
The Chinese Communist Central Committee, a gathering of about 370 senior officials, endorsed plans last week to “build and improve a legal system and enforcement mechanism to defend national security” in Hong Kong.
The Chinese government has not released details of what it has in mind. But the proposal may include national security legislation that could help stifle fresh antigovernment protests. The Basic Law, the mini-constitution that defines Hong Kong’s status, requires that the territory pass its own national security laws, but it has not done so. In 2003, the Hong Kong government abandoned proposed legislation after protests inundated city streets.
Shen Chunyao, the head of a Chinese legislative committee that helps oversee Hong Kong policy, told a news conference in Beijing on Friday that the Chinese leadership also wanted “patriotic education” in Hong Kong to foster stronger loyalty to China, especially among youth and government workers.
Mr. Shen indicated that China may revise how Hong Kong’s chief executive is chosen, but gave no details. The chief executive is currently chosen by a 1,200-member election committee dominated by pro-Beijing groups. There are signs that Beijing’s control of the committee may erode in the coming years unless the rules for choosing its members are changed.
The brief Xinhua report about the meeting between Mr. Xi and Mrs. Lam did not mention those initiatives. But Mrs. Lam appears likely to hear more about them when she travels to Beijing for meetings on Wednesday, including one with Han Zheng, the Chinese vice premier who oversees policy toward Hong Kong.
“The restoration process will be very long term and very difficult,” Tian Feilong, a Chinese law professor who specializes on Hong Kong said at a talk in Beijing on Monday. China had granted Hong Kong considerable autonomy, he said, adding, “high autonomy means high responsibility.”
Keith Bradsher reported from Shanghai, and Chris Buckley from Beijing.

        Continue reading the main story
      
