
# Taron Egerton Doesn’t Think Wolverine Is The Right Comic Book Character For Him

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:33:51+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2484034/taron-egerton-doesnt-think-wolverine-is-the-right-comic-book-character-for-him)

Written By
These days, it feels like just about every actor is signing a Marvel contract. And the studio has continued to nab huge names such as Angelina Jolie and Salma Hayek coming to the Eternals or Mahershala Ali starring in MCU’s Blade. In light of Taron Egerton’s incredible performance as Elton John in Rocketman and role in the Kingsman movies, rumors punctured around the actor taking on the mantle of Wolverine in the MCU next. The 29-year-old actor has had to clear up the exciting chatter a few times over the past few months. Check out what he recently said about them:
Unfortunately, there is no truth to Taron Egerton playing the role of Wolverine in the Marvel Universe following his Eddie the Eagle co-star Hugh Jackman at this time. The Rocketman actor is a huge fan of the franchise, he certainly doesn’t want to give them false hope. The rumor seems to have been founded on fan-casting (and a well done one, at that). It interested so many, it became viral. Since, Egerton hasn’t been shy about his interest in being a part of the MCU in general, he poses their might be other characters he could play instead!
There’s thousands of Marvel characters in canon and the studio isn’t slowing down anytime soon, with a planned three to four movies to be released each year and the new Disney+ platform adding television shows to the MCU. Taron Egerton has certainly proved his talent over the past few years, taking on a massive action role as Eggsy in the Kingsman movies and challenging himself with the role of Elton John in Rocketman. He could certainly find a place in the vast comic book universe.
But once you imagine Taron Egerton as Wolverine, there’s no going back. He’d be a great choice. The actor is closer to the height of comic book character, who is actually supposed to be a lot shorter than Jackman’s over-six-foot character was. The actor can’t deny how great of a role it would be either. He continued with these words to Yahoo:
Catch Taron Egerton waiting by the phone? The truth of the matter is Hugh Jackman’s 17 years as Logan is almost an impossible act to follow. While an X-Men reboot in the universe is coming sometime down the line, I wouldn’t imagine Kevin Feige is jumping at rebooting Wolverine so soon. So Egerton’s apprehension over Wolverine makes perfect sense. He sounds like he wants to be in the MCU conversation but doesn’t want to be counted out of other opportunities.
What do you think? What role in the MCU can you imagine Taron Egerton taking on… besides Wolverine? Sound off in the comments below.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
