
# Mum's fury as council workers dump children's toys in garden clear out bungle

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **The Judge, http://www.facebook.com/TheScottishDailyRecord/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/business-consumer/mums-fury-council-workers-dump-20790683)

Bungling council workers emptied Ashleigh McCluskey’s garden by mistake while she was out.
Contractors had been dispatched to clear a neighbouring property as a new tenant was moving in.
But they realised their error when Ashleigh returned home and couldn’t find her three-year-old’s toys.
The mum of two said: “We’ve lost absolutely everything. The workers even took my solar lights and dumped them. Now I have a fight on my hands to have the items replaced.”
Ashleigh, a mum to Patrick, three, and 10-year-old Peyton, had her suspicions and contacted North Lanarkshire Council on September 24. She said: “Patrick had gone out to play in the garden – he loves his ride-on car and playhouse – but there was no sign of them.
“At first I thought we’d been robbed. Then I put two and two together as a neighbour had moved out and I phoned the council. Within half an hour, they were back on admitting their mistake. Turns out they had appointed a contractor, who had dumped everything.”
Ashleigh, of Bellshill, Lanarkshire, was told to compile a list of the missing items, which included two children’s pools, a digger, car, playhouse, bike, lawn mower, barbecue and camping chairs.
She said: “I was relieved when the contractor arrived at my door to apologise. He reassured me I’d be settled up. The cost ran to £800.”
A month later, she was no further forward so contacted me. Ashleigh, 31, said: “I’m fed up phoning and emailing. My kids still don’t have their toys.
“Two weeks ago, I received a call to question the value of the items and offer me £250 as a goodwill gesture. I told them this was laughable. Please help.”
The council said: “We’re very sorry our contractor made this mistake. Pictures were taken of the items and condition they were in. A substantial offer has been made. More discussions will take place to try to resolve this matter.”
