
# AccuWeather: First taste of winter on the way

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:34:46+00:00**

Author: **WABC**

Original: [ABC7 New York](https://abc7ny.com/weather/accuweather-sunny-but-getting-cooler/27410/)

NEW YORK (WABC) -- A fast-moving system will bring rain by Thursday afternoon and maybe some light snow or mixing to higher elevations on Thursday night, ushering in the coldest air of the season so far.
The first part of the day will be cloudy with rain moving into the area in the afternoon as a cold front passes through and a low moves up along the coast.
As the cold air arrives on the backside of the storm, a mix of precipitation and some snow can be expected in the Poconos and Catskills.
Some northern communities could also see some flurries.
Behind the system, we will have the coldest weekend so far this fall with high temperatures not breaking the 40 degree mark in some places. Wind chills will keep it feeling like the 20s and teens.
Here is the 7-day forecast for the Tri-State area:
ThursdayClouds arrive with some afternoon rain. Some snow possible in the higher elevations at night. High 57.
FridayBlustery and colder with a high of 40.
SaturdayCold but not as windy. High 42.
SundayMix of clouds and sun with a high of 53.
MondayCloudy to partly sunny. High 53.
TuesdayRain or snow showers possible. High of 40.
WednesdayGusty and cold again. High 38.
Click here for the latest watches and warnings from the National Weather Service.
Check the weather any time at abc7NY.com/weather. For weather updates wherever you go, please download the AccuWeather app.

        Here's a look at the 7 Day AccuWeather forecast
      
