
# Limited edition BMW M2 CS unveiled

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:02:00+00:00**

Author: **Staff Writer**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/limited-edition-bmw-m2-cs-unveiled-414790)

The M2 CS gets both visual and mechanical tweaks; BMW will debut the model at the 2019 LA motor show.
BMW’s M division planned to send the current M2 off on a high with the introduction of a new, limited-edition CS model – and now it's official. The last-hurrah performance coupé has been revealed ahead of its first public debut at the Los Angeles motor show.
Differentiating the track-focused M2 CS from the M2 Competition are a number of exterior upgrades, such as a carbon-fibre-reinforced plastic bonnet with a central air vent, as well as a carbon-fibre roof. As a result, the bonnet’s weight is claimed to be half that of the steel unit used for the M2 Competition.
Further changes include a new splitter element at the front, a unique boot spoiler and a multi-channel diffuser – all made from carbon fibre and boosting downforce. New lightweight 19-inch forged aluminium wheels (in a black or matte-gold finish) and a choice of four exterior paint colours are also part of the package.
Power for the M2 CS comes from a reworked version of M division’s S55 engine, which uses a redesigned dual-branch exhaust system with controllable flaps for acoustics. The twin-turbo 3.0-litre petrol in-line six runs the same state of tune as it does in the M4 Competition, developing 450hp at 6,250rpm – that’s a 40hp increase on the M2 Competition, which gives the M2 CS a 290hp per tonne power-to-weight ratio. The torque figure stays unchanged at 550Nm.
The increased reserves are channelled through a standard 6-speed manual or optional 7-speed dual-clutch gearbox, and an electronically controlled Active M differential. BMW claims a 0-100kph time of 4.2sec for the manual-equipped M2 CS and 4sec for the dual-clutch version. In comparison, the 410hp M2 Competition has an official 0-100kph time of 4.4sec in manual guise.
There is also a Driver’s Package, which includes 245/35-profile front and 265/35-profile rear 19in Michelin Pilot Sport Cup 2 tyres as standard; additionally, its top speed is raised to 280kph.
Among the chassis tweaks brought to the M2 CS is standard Adaptive M suspension with the choice of three driving modes: Comfort, Sport and Sport+. Also included are upgraded M Sport brakes, with 400mm steel discs and six-piston calipers at the front and 380mm steel discs and four-piston calipers at the rear.
Despite the carbon-fibre body panels, it's actually no lighter than the Competition unless you opt for the optional carbon-ceramic brakes, which save 22kg. This is because it includes adaptive M suspension and M Sport seats as standard.
Inside, the M2 CS receives a carbon fibre centre console, plus M Sport seats from the M4 CS. Further equipment upgrades include adaptive LED headlights and a Harman Kardon sound system.
BMW already offers the M2 Competition in the Indian market with a Rs 79.90 lakh (ex-showroom, India) price tag; but there has been no official announcement by BMW regarding the launch of the limited edition M2 CS in our market. On the flip side, as we as previously reported, the BMW 2 Series Gran Coupe will be coming to the Indian market in 2020-21.
Rs 94.13 lakh * On Road Price (New Delhi)

        FIND OUT MORE
      
