
# Mahindra XUV300 recalled

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:32:00+00:00**

Author: **Jaiveer Mehra**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/mahindra-xuv300-recalled-414752)

A specific batch of the compact SUV, manufactured till May 19, 2019, has been recalled due to a faulty suspension component.
Mahindra has issued a recall for a specific batch of the XUV300 compact SUV manufactured till May 19, 2019. As per a PTI report, the recall has been issued over a faulty suspension component, though the manufacturer has not revealed the number of units or specific batches affected.
In a regulatory filing, the company said that owners of the affected vehicles will be individually contacted and that the replacement would be done free of charge.
Mahindra launched the XUV300 in India in February this year, with the model rivalling the Maruti Vitara Brezza, Hyundai Venue and Tata Nexon in the popular sub-four-metre SUV segment. At the time, the compact SUV was offered with the choice of a 1.2-litre turbo-petrol and a 1.5-litre diesel engine, both paired with a 6-speed manual gearbox. Mahindra added the option of a 6-speed AMT unit for the diesel model in July.
The carmaker is currently readying its compact SUV for an upgrade to meet the upcoming BS6 emission standards, with an all-electric iteration of the SUV also in the pipeline along with a seven-seater derivative.

        Also read:
      

        
          Hyundai Venue vs Mahindra XUV300 vs Ford EcoSport vs Tata Nexon comparison video
        
      

        
          SCOOP! Ford mulling Mahindra Marazzo-based MPV for India
        
      
Rs 9.09 lakh * On Road Price (New Delhi)

        FIND OUT MORE
      
