
# Adele shows off tiny waist in sexy Halloween costume after three-stone weight loss

Published at: **2019-11-01T02:44:53+00:00**

Author: **Sofia Petkar**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/adele-shows-tiny-waist-sexy-20785732)

Adele looked unrecognisable as she showed off her recent body transformation in a sexy Captain Hook costume for Halloween .
The superstar looked like she was having a ball as she posed with pals in a series of fun snaps.
She proudly showed off her three stone weight loss as she sported a sexy skin-tight leopard print bodysuit for the spooky occasion.
Adele, 31, left her long blonde hair hanging lose in voluminous waves, and completed her ‘Captain Hook’ inspired look with a large red leopard print hand and sparkling red eye make up.
Adele even sported a black hook on her right hand and layers of gold jewellery to bring her character to life.
The latest snaps come days after pictures emerged of Adele looking slimmer at Drake’s birthday party.
It's believed the popular songstress dropped the pounds after dedicating the last six months to pilates classes and regular workouts with a personal trainer.
She is also believed to be a huge fan of The Body Coach Joe Wicks and is said to be secretly following his high intensity workout videos.
It was reported the mum-of-one is “incredibly dedicated” to her new fitness regime, and prefers to train in the privacy of her home instead of a gym.
Her weight loss regime has also seen her beat her addiction to sugary tea, replacing it with a more plant-based diet.
Speaking to People magazine, a source claimed: “After Adele started working out, she never looked back.
"She was instantly a changed person with a different mindset."
Adele shot to fame in 2008, and insisted her appearance and weight have never been a priority for her and that she was not “insecure” about her looks.
However, in 2012, she was cruelly targeted by Chanel’s Karl Lagerfeld who criticised her as “a little too fat”.
The defiant star replaced that she was “very proud” of her appearance, adding: “weight has nothing to do with my career”.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
