
# 10 of the worst free transfers - from outcast defender to 'George Weah's cousin'

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, Kieron Day, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/10-worst-free-transfers-outcast-20757381)

With transfer fees continually on the rise, clubs are always on the lookout for a freebie.
Despite all the analysis and scout reports that occur, the acquisition of a top class player for nothing can still prove risky.
Potential employers are often happy to abandon their transfer strategy and roll the dice hoping for the next Andrea Pirlo or James Milner .
However that bargain deal can sometimes turn out to be anything but, and backfire catastrophically.
Over the years we've seen many of them flop, from failed drug tests, to astronomical wages, fake footballers, and everything in between.
Here are 10 of the worst free transfer of all time...
Anelka had a decent reputation from his time in the Premier League with the likes of Arsenal , Liverpool , Bolton and Chelsea .
But sadly for West Brom, the Hawthorns was where his run would end.
The forward returned to England from playing in China (via a brief spell at Juventus ) but made just 12 appearances for the Baggies.
He did grab two goals in that time, but celebrated the second of which against West Ham with a controversial salute that had links to anti-semitism.
Banned and fined by the FA, he didn't play for West Brom again.
Chamakh's arrival at the Emirates was greeted with plenty of excitement among the club's fans.
After losing Emmanuel Adebayor the season prior, expectations were on the Moroccan to help end the Gunners recent lack of trophies.
And he made a promising start - with 10 goals in his first 21 outings.
But it wasn't to last, as he scored just two in his next 43 appearances for the club.
He remained in England, with a spell at Crystal Palace his best stint, but retired last summer after two-and-a-half years out of the game.
The benchmark for free transfers gone wrong.
Bogarde had enjoyed an established career with European giants Ajax, Milan and Barcelona , when Chelsea snapped him up.
Although then-Blues manager Gianluca Vialli claimed he knew nothing about it, before his successor Claudio Ranieri quickly decided he had no time for Bogarde.
The defender soon became an infamous flop at Stamford Bridge, and a stain on the history of the club, as he made just nine appearances in four years, all whilst earning a reported £40k-a-week in wages.
Bogarde said: "Why should I throw fifteen million euros away when it is already mine? At the moment I signed it was in fact my money, my contract."
Chelsea should have perhaps known better than to move for Bosnich after legendary Man Utd boss Sir Alex Ferguson labelled him a "terrible professional".
Not to mention him landing in hot water with the FA for a Nazi salute at previous club Aston Villa.
And after only 11 appearances for the west London club, the Australian goalkeeper was immediately sacked after testing positive for cocaine use.
Bosnich failed the drugs test in 2002, and was subsequently banned from playing by the FA for nine months.
Liverpool had made some particularly good signings on freebies in the past when Voronin rocked up from Germany.
The Ukrainian scored his fair share of goals for three different clubs in the Bundesliga, as well as helping his country to the World Cup quarter-finals in 2006.
But Voronin peaked at Anfield as soon as he came through the front doors with three goals in his first four games.
Unfortunately for Liverpool and Voronin, that was as good it got, as he managed just three more goals that season before being loaned back to Germany.
Arguably best remembered on Merseyside for his glorious ponytail, or for spurning two shots into Row Z against Fulham .
A two-time Champions League winner with both Porto and Chelsea, Bosingwa was probably as confused as QPR fans when he arrived at Loftus Road.
The Hoops were spending money left, right and centre when the Portuguese full-back landed a £65k-a-week deal.
It proved to be money wasted.
Just months later he refused to sit on the bench for a Premier League clash, and was fined two weeks wages.
QPR were then consigned to relegation in his first season, and Bosingwa was seen laughing on TV.
Needless to say he didn't last long after that.
It feels almost wrong to put a player of Pires's standing in this list after his time at Arsenal.
A member of the Gunners Invincibles of 2004, the football writers player of the year in 2002, not to mention a World Cup winner.
But after a switch to Spain, the Frenchman was soon tempted back to the bright lights of the Premier League with Aston Villa.
At 37, he was past his peak, and made little impact in his nine league appearances.
"My experience at Villa has been a failure" Pires admitted.
Liverpool fans shudder at the thought of Roy Hodgson's reign as manager - and one photo encapsulates it.
Hodgson made eight signings in his first transfer window as Reds boss, with big stars such as Joe Cole and Milan Jovanovic among them.
Cole was considered a huge coup for the club, while Jovanovic's transfer had actually been arranged by ex-Liverpool boss Rafa Benitez.
Fans expected great things, but unfortunately for them their expectations were not met by either player.
Cole was sent off in Liverpool's opening game of the season, and started just 9 games before being loaned to Lille just 13 months after arriving.
Jovanovic had previously turned down a move to Real Madrid , but only made 10 appearances for Liverpool before his depature.
They both lasted longer than Hodgson, mind.
Possibly the greatest story in the history of football transfers.
Graeme Souness couldn't believe his luck when he was contacted by a chap claiming to be PSG and Milan legend George Weah, who was touting for interest for his footballing 'cousin' by the name of Ali Dia.
The then-Southampton boss quickly set about inviting Dia down for a trial, after hearing from the contact that he had only recently been at PSG himself, and was a Liberian international.
None of which was true.
After one training session with the first team, Dia was thrown into action just 20 minutes into the Saints' clash with Leeds after Matt Le Tissier went off injured.
Dia's last club had actually been non-league Blyth Spartans, where he made just one appearance, and the contact on the phone turned out to be his friend from university.
Le Tissier said: "It was unbelievable. He ran round the pitch like Bambi on ice, he was so embarrassing to watch Graeme Souness actually had to take him off again after half time: he was that bad.
"It was a great wind up, I bet he was just chuffed to get out on the pitch."
