
# Amazulu out of relegation zone with win over Stellenbosch

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:35:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/amazulu-claim-vital-win-over-stellenbosch-20191106)

Cape Town - A double from Bongi Ntuli at the Princess Magogo Stadium led AmaZulu to a 2-0 win over Stellenbosch in the Absa Premiership on Wednesday night.
The home team applied some pressure early on in the tie as Andre De Jong carved out some space for himself just outside the box, but his shot was comfortable saved by Boy De Jong.
Usuthu were rewarded for their attacking exploits in the 13th minute when Ntuli slotted a penalty to put his team in the lead.
The pressure continued to mount on Stellenbosch and Samuel Darpoh threatened to double AmaZulu's advantage when he dribbled through the heart of the traveling outfit's midfield only to drill his shot off target.
Shortly before the break Siyethemba Sithebe showcased his slick footwork as he slipped into some space in the Stellenbosch box, but De Jong got down well to make the stop.
AmaZulu maintained control over the game after the break and created another great chance in the 78th minute. Ntuli was in the thick of the action again and he crossed into the box from the right to find Lehlohonolo Majoro whose shot was parried away.
In the 90th minute the result was finally put to bed as the home team netted their second goal of the night. It was once again Majoro and Ntuli who combined to the delight of their supporters. Majoro set it up for Ntuli who made no mistake with his finish as he completed a brace.
The victory sees AmaZulu clinch their third win of the league campaign and move out of the relegation zone.
