
# Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy | Tushar Deshpande, Sujit Nayak and Atif Attarwala in Mumbai Squad

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:20:03+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/syed-mushtaq-ali-trophy-tushar-deshpande-sujit-nayak-and-atif-attarwala-in-mumbai-squad?utm_medium=rss)


        Tushar Deshpande, Aujit Nayak and Atif Attarwala have been added to the Mumbai squad for the first three matches of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy by an ad hoc senior selection committee. Mumbai will begin their campaign with a game against Mizoram in the Group D match at the Wankhede Stadium.
      
Mumbai's initial Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy squad did not have Tushar Deshpande in it and it had raised a few eyebrows as he has been impressive so far in his brief cricketing career. Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) President Vijay Patil had a meeting with the previous five-member selection committee and accordingly an ad hoc senior selection committee was established consisting of chairman Milind Rege, Guru Gupte, and Sridhar Mandale.
This ad hoc committee after long discussion added Deshpande, Nayak, and Attarwala to the initial 15-member squad to provide more balance and variety in options and the Mumbai team now looks strong especially with the addition of Deshpande. MCA Secretary Sanjay Naik said that the ad hoc committee will remain active until a proper selection committee is established post the Annual General Meeting.
Mumbai will start their campaign against Mizoram on Friday, November 8th against Mizoram and skipper Suryakumar Yadav will look to lead from the front and will hope to continue his sublime form shown in the Deodhar Trophy.
The squad for the first three matches: Suryakumar Yadav (Captain), Jay Bista, Aditya Tare, Sarfaraz Khan, Jaideep Pardeshi, Siddhesh Lad, Shubham Ranjane, Shams Mulani, Parikshit Valsangkar, Raunaq Sharma, Dhaval Kulkarni, Kruthik Hangewadi, Deepak Shetty, Aquib Qureshi, Dhrumil Matkar, Tushar Deshpande, Sujit Nayak, Atif Attarwala.
