
# Liverpool vs Genk LIVE: Score, goals and latest updates from Champions League fixture

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:59:32+00:00**

Author: **Callum Rice-Coates**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/live/liverpool-vs-genk-live-stream-score-goal-updates-result-champions-league-a9186616.html)

Follow live coverage as Liverpool host Genk in the Champions League this evening.
Jurgen Klopp's side won the reverse fixture 4-1 to keep the pressure on Napoli at the top of Group E.
The Belgian side are bottom of the group with just one point from their first three games, and travel to Mereyside on the back of a disappointing league defeat to KAS Eupen. Follow live coverage below.
Show latest update2019-11-05T20:53:57.230ZHere are all the half-time scores in the Champions League:
HALF TIME2019-11-05T20:50:11.180ZHalf time: And that's the end of the first half. Liverpool have been completely dominant and should be comfortably ahead. But a lapse of concentration from a corner has allowed Genk back into the game.
2019-11-05T20:48:58.710ZLiverpool 1-1 Genk  45+1 minutes Salah almost latches onto a long ball over the top but Lucumi gets there first. He concedes a corner, which is half cleared but only as far as Alexander-Arnold. He fires back into the box and Van Dijk glances a header just wide.
2019-11-05T20:47:05.416ZLiverpool 1-1 Genk  45 minutes There'll be one minute of added time.
Advertisement2019-11-05T20:46:36.436ZLiverpool 1-1 Genk  44 minutes Big chance! Origi should probably score. Fabinho wins the ball on the edge of the box and Keita slides a pass into Origi, who drags a left-footed shot wide of the far post from close range.
2019-11-05T20:45:14.740ZLiverpool 1-1 Genk  43 minutes Close! Genk have been buoyed by the equaliser. Heynen finds space just outside the box and sends a low shot narrowly wide of the post with Alisson stretching.
GOAL!2019-11-05T20:42:42.796ZGOAL! Liverpool 1-1 Genk (Samatta) 41 minutes Liverpool switch off and they're punished! The corner is driven towards the near post and met by Samatta, who powers a header past a helpless Alisson. It's another game without a clean sheet for Liverpool, who've completely dominated this game but now find themselves with more work to do to regain their lead.
2019-11-05T20:42:28.583ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 40 minutes Maehle whips an inviting cross in from the right that almost makes its way to the waiting Samatta. Alexander-Arnold does well to divert it behind for a corner.
Advertisement2019-11-05T20:41:31.930ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 39 minutes Origi plays a ball over the top towards Salah, and Dewaest makes a meal of it. The ball drops for Salah, who sends his shot wide. The referee blows for a foul on the Genk defender anyway, though.
2019-11-05T20:40:28.373ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 38 minutes Salah bursts forward and reaches the byline before pulling the ball back towards Origi. Genk do enough to divert it behind for a corner, from which Van Dijk swipes at thin air as he attempts a volley.
2019-11-05T20:38:34.520ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 36 minutes Close! Milner, who's been a threat throughout this half on the left, whips the ball into the middle towards Salah. The Egyptian's first touch is excellent, but he can't quite guide the ball into the far corner from a tight angle.
2019-11-05T20:36:44.420ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 35 minutes Oxlade-Chamberlain goes down clutching his ankle after a heavy challenge. There's some concern around Anfield given his recent injury history, but he looks okay to continue.
Advertisement2019-11-05T20:33:33.870ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 31 minutes Salah works the ball nicely into the feet of Oxlade-Chamberlain, who cuts onto his left, then onto his right and then onto his left again before finally unleashing a powerful shot. It's well blocked, though, and Genk clear.
2019-11-05T20:32:19.106ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 29 minutes A nervy moment for Coucke as the young goalkeeper almost allows Salah to sneak in. But De Norre is on hand to deal with the danger.
2019-11-05T20:28:36.520ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 26 minutes Genk are being forced to deal with wave after wave of attack. The latest of them is a nicely worked move between Milner, Oxlade-Chamberlain and Origi but the latter strays offside.
2019-11-05T20:26:17.110ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 23 minutes Alexander-Arnold's ball in is headed away and Genk look to counter attack. But they give the ball away and commit too many players forward, allowing Liverpool to launch a break of their own. Keita is slipped in and sees his attempted finish saved by the feet of Coucke, and the Guinean's second shot is blocked.
AdvertisementYELLOW CARD2019-11-05T20:24:29.326ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 22 minutes Salah escapes down the right and draws a foul from Lucumi on the edge of the box. The Genk defender goes into the book and Liverpool have a free kick in a dangerous position.
2019-11-05T20:23:25.640ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 21 minutes Oxlade-Chamberlain does well to keep the ball in close to the corner flag and sends a pass towards Origi. The Belgian chests it down for Milner, who hits a low shot at goal which lacks the power to trouble Coucke.
2019-11-05T20:22:05.293ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 20 minutes It's all a bit too easy for Liverpool. They're dominating the ball and patiently looking for openings. Genk, meanwhile, look afraid to even try anything remotely adventurous.
2019-11-05T20:17:56.853ZLiverpool 1-0 Genk 16 minutes 
Advertisement1 2Next
Match preview
Kick-off at Anfield is at 8pm GMT on November 4.
The match will be shown live on BT Sport 3, with coverage beginning at 7.15pm.
Subscribers can watch the match via the BT Sport app or online via the BT Sport player.
Mohamed Salah is likely to sit out the game, with his ankle injury still bothersome and a crucial clash with Manchester City to come this weekend. Divock Origi is expected to start in the front three, and there may be further opportunities for Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and Naby Keita in midfield.
With Joel Matip sidelined, Joe Gomez could start in central defence, while Jurgen Klopp may also look to rest one or both of his full-backs ahead of the City game.
Liverpool XI: Alisson; Trent Alexander-Arnold, Joe Gomez, Virgil Van Dijk, Andrew Robertson; Fabinho, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Naby Keita; Roberto Firmino, Sadio Mane, Divock Origi.
Liverpool 1/12
Draw 12/1
Genk 35/1
With the Belgians well beaten at home in the reverse encounter, it is hard to forecast anything other than a comfortable victory for the hosts. 

          4-1 to Liverpool is our prediction.
        
