
# Arsene Wenger pinpoints Barcelona's problem as pressure builds on Ernesto Valverde

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:22:36+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsene-wenger-pinpoints-barcelonas-problem-20822252)

Arsene Wenger reckons Barcelona have lost their mojo as the pressure mounts on beleaguered manager Ernesto Valverde.
The Catalan giants are top of La Liga but have lost three games this season and suffered a goalless draw with Slavia Prague in the Champions League.
That stalemate came on the back of a shock 3-1 defeat to Levante in the league at the weekend, with defeats to Athletic Bilbao and Granada also coming in the campaign.
Valverde has been in charge of Barca since May 2017 after taking over from Luis Enrique but has been placed under pressure.
He has won the Spanish title in both his seasons, along with the Copa del Rey in 2018 and has an overall record of 134 matches in charge with 90 wins and just 15 defeats.
And former Arsenal boss Wenger thinks that Barca have "lost their charisma" and their style of play is too slow and individual in the final third.
Wenger told beIN Sports: "(Despite being) leaders of La Liga and their Champions League group... they are playing like a team in crisis, because the play is too slow, without dynamism, and very individualistic in the final metres.
"When they lose the ball they could concede a goal on the counter because they aren't closing down the space for the opponent."
" Barcelona are an interesting case because they have a history of brilliant collective team play and then they also had Leo Messi who made the difference. Today it seems they play expecting something from Messi.
"Before the music was beautiful, of a fantastic team waiting for Messi to appear. Today they have lost their charisma and you have to ask how much the last two Champions League failures have affected them.
"From outside it seems they've lost their charisma."
