
# New SNP councillor in Glasgow criticised over £600 expenses bill

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Hutcheon, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/paul-hutcheon/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/new-snp-councillor-glasgow-criticised-20818025)

The SNP’s newest councillor has been criticised over a £600 “telephone and ICT” expenses bill.
Anne McTaggart, who defected from Labour to the SNP last week, incurred costs nearly fifteen times higher than her colleagues.
Thomas Kerr, the leader of the Tory group on Glasgow council, said:
“Just as the SNP ditch their Lord Provost for her dodgy expenses, they pick up another councillor spending more public money than necessary.
“It’s clear Cllr McTaggart has found the right home among an SNP group willing to throw away taxpayers’ cash. This money would be far better spent on schools and roads.”
 
McTaggart was a Labour MSP between 2011 and 2016 before she was effectively deselected by party members.
She made a political comeback twelve months later when she was elected as a Glasgow councillor for Anniesland and Drumchapel.
On Friday, she announced she had quit Labour to join the SNP, which runs the city council as a minority administration.
McTaggart said: “I really want to be part of something positive. Labour hasn’t done anything positive of note for a long time in Glasgow.”
Her defection was hailed by Nicola Sturgeon who wrote that it was “great” to “welcome” her to the party.
However, McTaggart is facing questions about her latest “telephone/ICT” costs.
Over 80 of the 85 councillors claimed less than £50 in this category, with the overwhelming majority billing the taxpayer for £41.58.
Two councillors had bills of between £50 and £60, but McTaggart’s charge came to £606.33. At £765, she also had the second highest mileage bill.
SNP councillor Graham Campbell was top of list for mobile phone costs - £4,579 - which was caused by him not switching off his data roaming on a trip to Africa. He has agreed to repay most of it to the council.
In 2012, McTaggart's expenses claims as an MSP hit the headlines after she billed the taxpayer for a book called “Public Speaking and Presentation for Dummies”.
McTaggart did not respond to the Record’s email.
