
# Deliver Innovation By Embracing Inclusion

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Justin Hastings**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbeshumanresourcescouncil/2019/11/01/deliver-innovation-by-embracing-inclusion/)

Successful companies are the ones that constantly innovate, commit to finding new and better ways to serve their consumers and develop business models that provide greater value and relevance. This starts with a company culture of inclusion, which in turn breeds a culture of innovation.In many ways, the driving force of a company — its employees — will be the determining factor of successful innovation. Therefore, empowering the talent base and fostering a culture of inclusion throughout the organization are critical underpinnings to delivering successful business innovations and transformation.

        Build A Culture Of Continuous Innovation
      
The ideal workplace environment is one where all employees feel able to bring their whole selves — backgrounds and differences aside — to work. This type of environment and working culture actively celebrates differences, in addition to respecting them. Making this a high-priority commitment helps to create a culture where teams across the company have a desire to take up the baton for continuous improvement, which leads to the creation of innovative products and solutions.
Building this type of inclusive company culture empowers employees to continue to evolve within the organization and be comfortable expressing their ideas and perspectives. Specifically, advocating for the power of inclusion creates value for the company, building an authentic culture in which the diversity of opinions and ideas is genuinely valued.
Instead of trying to force change as companies transform and innovate, give your employees a strong voice. Give them the permission and encouragement to advocate for the change through their networks, whether formal or informal. Give them the proper resources to make an impact. By empowering and equipping employees, the support will grow organically companywide without having to rely solely on directives from leadership. The benefits of an enriched working environment will positively impact innovation and create positive results for the business.

        Innovate To Grow
      
When companies overcome barriers and embrace different perspectives, great things can happen. The support of employees in creating innovative ways of doing business is a key indicator of success. When employees are connected across various dimensions of an organization, and united for a common goal, it garners tremendous results. It also fosters trust, respect and greater levels of collaboration across the organization.
A big part of this is ensuring employees see a direct link between the company’s mission and their own personal role as part of this mission. Bring employees into the development process for products. Invite all team members to take part in discussions, beta trials to test products and provide feedback on elements like product design and user experience. This will enable an organization to harness the collective ideas of hundreds of engaged employees who are actively involved in the innovation process, and it provides the critical benefit of creating mass advocacy for a product ahead of its market launch.
So, as you think about fostering a culture of innovation in your company, consider the value of inclusion. Focus on creating highly collaborative work environments, breaking down traditional hierarchies and bringing together diverse talent from across the business to deliver new capabilities to consumers, customers and society at large.
