
# Why Winnie Harlow Doesn’t Believe In Role Models

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Moira Forbes**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/moiraforbes/2019/11/07/why-winnie-harlow-doesnt-believe-in-role-models/?utm_source=twitter_video&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=forbes)

“I don't believe in role models. I don't think anyone should be put on a pedestal or made to feel like someone you should emulate,” says Winnie Harlow. “You should want to be yourself.” Since appearing as a contestant on America’s Next Top Model in 2014, Harlow has made history as the first model with vitiligo to grace the world’s most iconic runways and magazine covers. In an industry that often prizes conformity over uniqueness, her embrace of individuality has set her apart, fueling her barrier-breaking rise to fashion’s upper echelon and shattering outdated beauty standards along the way.“I try not to compare myself to anyone else. It’s inspiring to see my girls in my industry doing the things that they're doing. But I have my own path that I have to walk and you just can't compare,” says Harlow. She similarly encourages others not to replicate her journey, but instead to seek inspiration from it and find the confidence to follow their own unique path. “Take my aspiration of being what I want to be and put that in your life to do what you actually, really dream to do.”
In the latest episode of “Success with Moira Forbes,” Harlow opens up about the persistence that made her trailblazing career possible, the intense pressures of living within the spotlight, and her push to hold the door open for others. “There’s space at the table for everyone to eat,” she says. “In order to be the first, you can’t be the last.”
Highlights of our conversation below.

        On Redefining Beauty:
      
“My definition of beauty shouldn't have anything to do with your definition of beauty. I think beauty is really within the eye of the beholder. Everyone should stop focusing on what everyone else thinks beautiful is.” 
“People put a lot of responsibility on fashion and beauty industries for what they put out into the world, which is true. They have a lot of responsibility in it. But I think we also have to start taking responsibility for what we put into our systems and what we allow these industries to feed to us. You have to focus on what you want to be given in life, and stop just taking whatever is given to you.”

        On Her Persistence:
      
“If someone tells me I can't do something, I want to do it even more. I want to prove them wrong and I want to show them that if I put my mind to it, I definitely can. No doesn’t mean no to me. It means not right now.”

        On The Pressures Of Fame:
      
“There’s times when I won’t even go outside because I feel like I can’t be myself. I don’t want to always deliver something. I want to live my life. When I take 50 pictures every single day, I am no longer belonging to myself. I don’t believe in being the people’s person. I appreciate the love and I want to reciprocate that love, but I also need to be able to feel like a human being and not a statue in a museum.”
“I always try to do what feels right for me. So, if I don't want to talk about something, I'm not going to talk about it. If I don't feel like taking a picture, I'm not going to do that. And I'm going to try to do it in the most polite way possible. But I have to do what's right for my soul and my heart.”

        On Her Recent Collaboration With KKW Beauty:
      
“Growing up as a black girl, I I couldn't find a shade for myself. And not only could I not find shades of foundation and concealer, but when it came to shadow palettes, I couldn't find anything that had enough pigment or richness of color that would show up on my skin. 
“I think it's so amazing that brands today are paying attention to the consumer and making changes, because everyone deserves to be able to have a foundation or a concealer. It shouldn't be one type of person who gets everything in life. Everyone deserves everything in life. So, this collaboration with Kim is really exciting for me because I wanted everything we made together to be chocolate girl friendly, and she was extremely receptive to this. I’m really proud of what we created.”

        On What She Learned From The Kardashians:
      
“I watched ‘Keeping Up with the Kardashians’ religiously and have seen how much they’ve built. It always inspired me to know that even though I didn't start from where I am now, I could get there. And I've carried that with me my whole career. When I met them for the first time, I told them ‘you guys really had a big impact on me wanting more for my life than I started off with.’”

        On Her Advice To Her Younger Self:
      
“Don’t let anyone get you out of your focus or out of your character. I think it's really easy to get frustrated in life and get upset in life, but you can't let other people take you out of your character. You always have to be true to yourself.”
