
# The 10 Best Clubs In European Ranking

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:00:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/world-news/the-10-best-clubs-in-european-ranking/666779)

The latest Euro Club Index (ECI) has revealed the 10 best clubs in Europe based on current form. LaLiga giants FC Barcelona have dropped two places, while Premier League clubs are on the rise, but which side comes out on top?

        Click through the gallery above to see this week's highest-ranked clubs in Europe!
      
The ECI ranks football clubs across Europe's top five leagues by using an array of scientific methods to predict and analyse results and performances.
According to their latest rankings, reigning UEFA Champions League title holders Liverpool – who are currently unbeaten in the Premier League – are Europe's highest-ranked club ahead of domestic rivals Manchester City, who climbed to second.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now 
        
      
Previous top side Barcelona have dropped two places to third position after enduring an indifferent run of form in LaLiga while arch-enemies Real Madrid feature lower down in ninth place.
Chelsea are the only club to have climbed since the previous ranking, with the Blues moving up to seventh at the expense of reigning Ligue 1 champions Paris Saint-Germain.

        
          Read: 10 Managers Facing The Sack
        
      
Cristiano Ronaldo's Juventus also feature in the top 10, which can be viewed in full by scrolling through the gallery above!
