
# England downed by New Zealand following horror collapse in 14-run defeat

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:23:40+00:00**

Author: **Dean Wilson, https://www.facebook.com/DeanWilsonCricketMirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/cricket/england-downed-new-zealand-following-20813141)

England threw away a golden chance to take a 2-1 series lead when they collapsed in a heap sparked by the loss of their captain.
Eoin Morgan's wicket for 18, caught in the deep from Mitchell Santner's final ball, triggered a loss of five wickets for just 10 runs in 18 balls that ultimately gave New Zealand the win by 14 runs.
Tom Curran tried to breathe some life into the chase at the death, but with 19 needed from the final over the task was just too great as Kiwi skipper Tim Southee closed the game out.
England and their senior batsmen Dawid Malan and James Vince will be kicking themselves having got in and made 55 and 49 respectively.
But just when England needed them to use the value of their experience to go on and see the game out they both came up short.
There were only 142 caps between the eleven players before this game which is fully 1,000 less than the team that took the field in the 50-over World Cup final in July and it told.
There were debuts for Tom Banton and Matt Parkinson, and a cover drive for four plus a booming flicked six off Lockie Ferguson suggests Banton's future looks bright, but he got out to a scoop shot for the first time just when he was motoring.
With the ball the Curran brothers Sam and Tom again kicked things off and by the time they were done they had all but matching figures for a job well done.
Tom could just about claim the bragging rights with his 2-29, but Sam's 1-29 was just as effective in keeping the Kiwis to a total under 200 which looked highly likely at one stage.
While Colin de Grandhomme was busy connecting with his eight boundaries on the way to 55 the home side were soaring towards a huge total, but the Surrey duo did a great job in stopping him and Jimmy Neesham before the damage was too great.
Tom also took a stunning catch on the run to remove dangerman Martin Guptill for 33 when he had got the Blackcaps off to a flyer.
It was part of a much improved fielding display from England who took every catch that came their way and Sam Billings ran out Santner from the final ball to boot.
Saqib Mahmood found life a lot tougher than the Curran's though with 49 coming from his four overs.
