
# Verstappen tops FP1, Mercedes off the pace on 2020 tyres - FP1 report

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Tyrrell**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49165/verstappen-tops-fp1-ahead-of-vettel-and-albon-fp1-report.html)


        Max Verstappen set the standard in FP1 of the US Grand Prix as he topped the timesheets ahead of Sebastian Vettel and Alex Albon. Mercedes finished further back as they got used to their surroundings and tested the 2020 Pirelli tyres.
      
Verstappen set a time of 1:34.057 to beat Sebastian Vettel to top spot. The German had looked to have set the time that would be the standard for FP1 but the Dutchman pipped him to top spot. Verstappen's teammate, Alex Albon had an impressive first session at the COTA circuit finishing third and led large portions of the opening session.
Several drivers were testing the 2020 Pirelli prototype during FP1 and this showed with Lewis Hamilton and Valtteri Bottas well of the pace. The Brit set a best time of 1:35.439 whilst Bottas was down in 17th. 
There were positive sessions for Pierre Gasly, Romain Grosjean and Daniel Ricciardo who both finished inside the top six. 
Nicholas Latifi was back behind the wheel of a Williams car with the Canadian getting more laps under his belt before he inevitably races for the team next season. However, his session only lasted seven laps as a gearbox problem brought his session to a premature end. He'll be back in Brazil.
Throughout the session, several drivers complained about the bumps in the track which caused some drivers some issues. Hamilton went as far to say it might be unsafe.
