
# Mikel Arteta among candidates as Arsenal eye up replacements for under-fire Unai Emery

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:13:28+00:00**

Author: **Mark McDougall, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/mark-mcdougall/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/mikel-arteta-among-candidates-arsenal-20806541)

Mikel Arteta is among a number of candidates being looked at as Unai Emery's replacement at Arsenal if the Spaniard is sacked.
The former Rangers star was linked with the job before Emery took over but his lack of experience as the main man seemed to count against him.
But his stock continues to rise as a highly-rated right hand man of Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola.
His relationship with the Arsenal fans after his five years at the club also hold him in good stead, report the Mirror.
Technical director Edu and head of football Raul Sanllehi have a growing influence in the club but Josh Kroenke - son of majority shareholder Stan - wants to give Emery a bit more time.
Former Juventus boss Massimo Allegri is also a candidate after being out of work since leaving the Old Lady at the end of last season.
Allegri was understood to be in the running for the role last time as well, but interviewed poorly and was overlooked.
Arsenal don't have many other options with Patrick Vieira performing poorly at Nice while Jose Mourinho is an unlikely option due to his relationship with the supporters.
Mourinho had a barbed relationship with Arsene Wenger and aimed jibes at the club in the past.
Emery is under further pressure after the 1-1 draw with Wolves. They've won just two of their last nine Premier League games.
Arteta spent two seasons at Ibrox, winning the Premier League and League Cup in 2003.
 
