
# Exclusive! Ashley Rebello on how challenging it was to style Sonakshi Sinha in Salman Khan starrer ‘Dabangg’

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:58:20+00:00**

Author: **Milana Rao**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/exclusive-ashley-rebello-on-how-challenging-it-was-to-style-sonakshi-sinha-in-salman-khan-starrer-dabangg/articleshow/71850060.cms)

Salman Khan launched Shatrughan Sinha’s daughter Sonakshi Sinha in 2010 in Abhinav Kashyap’s ‘Dabangg’. Although the actress has come a long way after her debut film, her look and style in the film is something that still makes headlines. Now that the actress is all set to play her iconic role of ‘Rajjo’ in the third instalment of the movie, designer and celebrity stylist Ashley Rebello opened up exclusively to ETimes about the challenges he faced while deciding on the look of the actress, her style in ‘Dabangg 3’ and more.
Speaking about styling her for her debut film, ‘Dabangg’, he said, “Sonakshi Sinha came with such weightage where she is a superstar’s daughter. I had to live up to those expectations. For me it was like, people should look up to her and say ‘Wow, how beautiful she is looking!’ She was a beautiful girl already but I had to enhance her beauty. Things like that are challenging because they leave it in your hands and then you just realise that with everybody else you are also launching this person. I put everything into perspective and nothing is left unnoticed.”
The stylist also revealed what changes he has made in her look for the third instalment. He averred, “In terms of style, I have roped in different designers. I have styled the entire look of Sonakshi Sinha too. In one of the songs, I have done all neon colours – lime green, bright orange, bright purple, bright pink and we got a different designer to do each saree of Sonakshi.”
Directed by Prabhudheva, ‘Dabangg 3’ stars Salman Khan, Sonakshi Sinha and South superstar Sudeep. It is slated to hit the theatres on December 20, 2019.
