
# MACC studying responses over compound notices issued to recover 1MDB money

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:22:51+00:00**

Author: **Hafiz Yatim**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/macc-studying-responses-over-compound-notices-issued-recover-1mdb-money)

PUTRAJAYA (Nov 1) : The Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) is looking into the responses of the 80 individuals and entities against whom it had issued compound notices to recover money totalling some RM420 million believed to be from 1Malaysia Development Bhd.
MACC chief commissioner Latheefa Koya said they had initially asked to be exempted from having to pay back the funds they allegedly received.
"All of them initially asked for an exemption of payment of the compound. However, after explaining to them that it was not possible they then asked for deferment, and some offered a scheduled payment of the amount sought.
"There are those who came to us claiming they are not the final recipients but are intermediaries, and we asked them to point or show us the recipients. Hence, we are tracing them and all this requires some time for the MACC to go through," Latheefa told reporters at MACC’s media appreciation event tonight.
She said MACC has open investigation papers on all of them as time is needed to undertake the probe.
The individuals issued with a compound notice included former premier Datuk Seri Najib Razak's youngest brother Datuk Seri Nazir Razak, several former Ministers and politicians.
Notable individuals include former Deputy Finance Minister Datuk Seri Ahmad Maslan and former Federal Land Development Authority (Felda) chairman Tan Sri Shahrir Abdul Samad.
MACC is seeking RM25.7 million from Nazir alone, which is the highest compound for an individual listed. The highest compound for an entity or company is for Solar Shine Sdn Bhd, a company whose representative had testified in the SRC International Sdn Bhd trial involving Najib.
Latheefa also said that there were those who had lodged a police report against MACC for issuing the compound.
However, she maintained that there is no basis for them to make the report as the agency acted according to the provisions of the law.
The MACC chief commissioner also said that while the agency was taking action against those who received RM500,000 and above, those who allegedly received a lower amount would not be let off the hook.
"We would also take action on them," she said.
She reiterated the media should refrain from reporting on cases when investigations are underway as it would not only disrupt the probe but is unfair to the people reported in the event they are later found not to be involved.
Also present at tonight’s event was MACC deputy chief commissioner Datuk Seri Azam Baki.
