
# 5 puppies die after owner’s in-law allegedly splashed them with chemicals, animal welfare group files police complaint

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:48:11+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Jakarta**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/jakarta/news/5-puppies-die-after-owners-in-law-allegedly-splashed-them-with-chemicals-animal-welfare-group-files-police-complaint/)

An animal welfare group has filed a police complaint in relation to the deaths of five puppies in Central Jakarta, which were allegedly killed by their owner’s in-law.
Told over a series of Instagram posts, animal welfare group Natha Satwa Nusantara said they received a tip yesterday that five puppies in Central Jakarta were in dire condition after they were splashed with hot water. When a volunteer of the group arrived at the location, she found that the puppies had blisters all over their bodies, and that their mother also had blisters on her legs.

        (WARNING: Disturbing content)
      
https://www.instagram.com/p/B4Z7BbYDZre/
All of the dogs were taken to a vet, but four of the puppies passed away not long after. One pup, which Natha Satwa Nusantara named Deadpool in the hopes that he would be immortal like the comics character, survived. However, Deadpool had been left blind after the alleged abuse and kept vomiting, which led the vet to suspect that the dogs were not splashed with hot water, rather some kind of chemical.
Sadly, Deadpool succumbed to his injuries this morning.
No charges have been filed in this case, but Natha Satwa Nusantara Operations Director Anisa Ratna Kurnia yesterday lodged an official police complaint over the deaths of the puppies.
At the moment, details about the alleged abuse of the dogs are still being pieced together by Natha Satwa Nusantara based on the testimony of the owner — a man identified by his initial A.
“The in-law splashed the six dogs, according to A,” Anisa told Kompas yesterday.
“I don’t know why. When we asked, the owner didn’t speak much. The owner and his in-law still maintain good relations.”
Anisa added that the incident occurred on Sunday and that A said his in-law feels remorse over the alleged abuse.
Police have yet to release any statements regarding the complaint.
We have reached out to Natha Satwa Nusantara for comments and will update this story should we hear from them.

        Related: Abandoned: Indonesia’s animal activists lack legal backing to stop cruelty towards critters
      
