
# MarQ TurboStream AndroidTV box by Flipkart launched for ₹3,499 ($49)

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:43:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/marq-turbostream-androidtv-box-launched-flipkart-3499-49/)

The popularity of streaming services is on the rise in India and many users are canceling their cable TV subscriptions in favor of such services. To cater to the increasing demand, several companies have launched a variety of streaming devices that allow users to convert their traditional TVs into smart TVs, with support for streaming services like Netflix and Amazon Prime Video. Most recently, DishTV India launched a new range of smart connected devices in the country with which users can seamlessly switch between cable TV and streaming services. Domestic e-commerce giant Flipkart is also looking to cash in on the opportunity and has now launched its own AndroidTV box.
The new streaming device has been launched under Flipkart’s home brand MarQ and it’s currently available on the website at a price of INR 3,499 (~$49). The MarQ TurboStream runs Android 9 Pie out of the box and includes a voice-controlled remote with support for the Google Assistant. The new AndroidTV box comes with Chromecast support and it will also let you download a variety of apps from the Play Store. Sadly, the device is only capable of streaming content in Full HD resolution (1920×1080), but on the bright side, it features Dolby Digital Audio support for enhanced audio output. Powering the device is a quad-core SoC, coupled with a Mali 450 GPU, 1GB of DDR3 memory, and 8GB of internal storage. It also includes support for dual-band WiFi for better connectivity.
If you’re interested in purchasing the MarQ TurboStream, you’d be glad to know that it’s available at a no-cost EMI that starts at just INR 292 a month. Furthermore, Flipkart Axis Bank Buzz credit card users can get an additional 5 percent cashback on purchase of the device.

        
          Buy MarQ TurboStream from Flipkart
        
      
