
# 'Fake doctor' arrested after 'killing four patients and injuring eight others'

Published at: **2019-11-04T02:33:21+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/fake-doctor-arrested-after-killing-20805619)

A 'fake doctor' has been arrested after allegedly killing four patients and injuring eight others.
The 48-year-old woman stands accused of forging documents to secure a job as an assistant anaesthetist in Fritzlar, Hesse, Germany.
Prosecutors claim the allegedly unqualified doctor gave patients the wrong medication and incorrect doses at the Hospital of the Holy Spirit, in Fritzlar.
She was employed as an anaesthetist between 2015 and 2017, before finally coming under investigation in February.
The probe initially focused on her lack of credentials, however it expanded after she was linked to a series of deaths.
In addition to medicine and dosage failures, it is claimed she did not pick up on some patients' struggles to breathe, the Daily Telegraph reports.
The 'fake doctor', named as 'Meike W' by German media, reportedly stood as a mayoral candidate for Bad Emstal in Hesse, Germany, in 2012.
Police raided her home and the Hospital of the Holy Spirit on Tuesday, arresting the suspect.
The alleged fraudster, who has remained in custody since her arrest, reportedly worked as an assistant anaesthetist for two years before moving to a different part of the hospital in 2018.
A six-year degree and another five years of training is required to become an anaesthetist in Germany, according to the BBC .
The scandal comes after a fertility doctor was sued by a family who claim he used his own sperm to father their daughters instead of an anonymous donor.
Cheryl Emmons has launched the lawsuit against Dr Paul Jones after her two daughters were contacted by a half-sibling through two ancestry websites.
Mrs Emmons was artificially inseminated by the medic in 1980 and 1985 at the Women’s Health Care of Western Colorado and went on to give birth two Maia Emmons-Boring and Tahnee Scott.
