
# Kieron Pollard is more proactive as a captain, asserts Vivian Richards

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:25:11+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/kieron-pollard-is-more-proactive-as-a-captain-asserts-vivian-richards?utm_medium=rss)


        Windies legend Vivian Richards believes that Kieron Pollard has the qualities of a proactive captain and he can motivate each individual in the team to give his best. Pollard, who last played an ODI in 2016, was appointed as the white-ball captain of West Indies, taking the baton from Jason Holder.
      
Arguably the best batsman of his generation, Vivian Richards has backed Pollard to take West Indian cricket to the next level and he feels that Pollard is perfectly capable of producing the best from his team. Pollard had captained Barbados Tridents to CPL win in the inaugural season and Vivian Richards has been a fan of his captaincy and the kind of composure that he shows on the field ever since.
"I've always admired his captaincy, I've always felt that when he played the first CPL T20 at home, he was the best captain. I think Barbados Tridents went on to win it [in 2014], and he was the best captain in my opinion, more proactive than the rest of the captains we would have seen. I think he's in a good place," Richards told ESPNCricinfo.
Pollard will begin his reign as the captain with West Indies taking on Afghanistan in a three-match ODI series that will be played in India. Youngsters Brandon King and Hayden Wlsh Jr were impressive in the 2019 CPL with the former being the leading run-scorer and the latter being the leading wicket-taker. Hayden Walsh Jr., particularly being from Antigua, has impressed Richards and he predicts a bright future for him if he keeps on doing the hard work.
"I was impressed with him as an Antiguan and Barbudan, especially in the CPL, and he's a magnificent fieldsman as well," Richards said.
"So I think West Indies do have some good talent coming through, and if it can be fulfilled, they'll be okay," he added.
Richards believes that the series against Afghanistan will test the Windies especially with the kind of spinners that Afghanistan possesses. But he still backs West Indies to win the series on the back of their fast bowling prowess with the likes of Shannon Gabriel, Kemar Roach, etc. in the squad.
"I'd still like to say West Indies are favourites. What West Indies have in terms of their fast-bowling unit, that may be the difference. It'll be a great help. If [Kemar] Roach, [Shannon] Gabriel if he's there, all the other guys bring it as a pace attack, that may counter the spin that Afghanistan have," he concluded.
