
# Codeforces Round #599

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:33:00+00:00**

Author: **gen**

Original: [Codeforces](http://codeforces.com/blog/entry/71170)

Hi guys!
Glad to invite you to Codeforces Round #599 to be held this Nov/06/2019 18:05 (Moscow time)!
My name is Evgeny Vihrov, this is already my 6th Codeforces contest as an author. To introduce myself, I have participated twice in the ACM ICPC Finals (2012, 2014) and currently I am co-coaching teams for the ICPC at the University of Latvia. This is my first solo round, and it took 3.5 years to make! (the last one was #347 with Alex_2oo8).
In this contest you will have to help Ujan deal with his renovation issues. Hopefully, everyone will find a problem matching their taste!
Huge thanks to arsijo for coordinating the preparation of the contest and for the patience with the frequent delays. :) Thanks to Xellos, Origenes, KAN and opukittpceno_hhr for generously testing the round. And as always, thanks to MikeMirzayanov for the panem et circenses Codeforces and Polygon systems!
Wish you an exciting round!
UPD1: McDic is joining as a coauthor of the contest (reasons to be revealed later)!
UPD2: Scoring:
Div. 1: 500-1000-1500-2000-2500
Div. 2: 500-500-750-1500-2000-2500
UPD3: Thanks for participating! Congratulations to the winners!!!
Div. 1:
Div. 2:
UPD4: The editorial will be available tomorrow, sorry for the delay. :((
UPD5: The reason behind McDic entering as a coauthor is that one problem was exactly identical to some problem from some Codeforces round. We found out about it only at the last day before the contest, and McDic generously allowed to use his problem.
UPD6: Editorial is posted.
