
# What we made of Plymouth's best breakfast according to Trip Advisor

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Erin Black**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/food-drink/what-made-plymouths-best-breakfast-3491809)

We decided to pay an impromptu visit to the inconspicuous café hailed as having Plymouth’s best breakfast.
The Snack Box Café is situated on Market Way just around the corner from Plymouth market.
It boasts a 5* Trip Advisor rating from 147 reviews, with customers saying the eatery is the ‘best cafe around’ and the ‘best traditional breakfast in Plymouth’.
It seemed only right after having to review toilets last week that I should get the privilege of trying Plymouth's best breakfast in recompence.
Tucked away from the main hustle and bustle at the bottom of town, the venue was receiving a steady stream of visitors by 9.45am when I arrived.
It’s seems like a popular haunt for builders and locals, I joined a short queue of hi-viz jackets who had come to enjoy a full English at the start of the day.
The Snack Box does four varieties of breakfast including the mini, the mega, the English and vegetarian. I opted for the English at £4.75 and added a slice of black pudding for 50p because if you're going to do it, you need to do it right.
All the breakfasts come with a free drink whether that be tea, coffee or squash. I'm not a tea or coffee drinker by nature but when in Rome...
My bi-annual foray into tea was very nice to say the least, I chucked a sachet of sugar into it and it was so enjoyable I may consider upgrading my tea drinking to more than once every six months.
Rob Nimmo has been the owner of the Snack Box for ten years and has developed a great rapport and atmosphere with his customers.
The venue can fit up to 44 customers according to its Trip Advisor page and he politely asks single visitors to sit down the middle of the café so he can seat groups on the larger tables around the side.
The little café boasts a few quirks like old fashioned flip clocks all around the wall showing the time in countries like Moscow, Hong Kong and Paris.
I'm not sure if they were entirely accurate but they were a nice touch.
You couldn't be blamed if on first impressions you thought it was a bit of a greasy spoon but the cafe was immaculately clean. Staff were out to clean and wipe down tables within seconds of customers saying their goodbyes - which they all did with sincere thanks.
I didn't tell anyone I had come to do a review because I wanted an authentic experience and I certainly got it. I watched as Rob explained to the mornings visitors that his usual sausage order hadn't arrived yet so he was doing a mix and match.
I also saw him tackle the morning rush single handedly before his team arrived, cooking about four breakfasts in a row single handedly whilst also taking orders and making teas.
He's developed such a nice atmosphere in the place that one of the builders in the queue offered to drop the breakfasts to the tables to help him speed up the cooking process.
There was a trio of staff behind the counter by 10am and my English breakfast arrived in front of me before I had time to read the time in Toyko.
Two sausages, two slices of bacon, beans, toast, a fried egg, tinned tomatoes (sliced are available), black pudding and not an ounce of grease in sight.
The portion size seemed quite tame for a full English but by the time I finished I was weighing up whether the top button of my trousers needed undoing.
You can order any of the breakfasts as they come but if you don't like tomatoes for example then Rob is more than happy to tweak it to your taste.
The Snack Box has probably given me the first fry up that hasn't made me feel like I've got a congealed blob of grease sitting at the pit of my stomach.
It was the perfect amount to make you feel full but still able to carry on the day without needing an emergency food nap.
As cooked breakfasts go it didn't necessarily scream 'wow!' but it was all cooked with care and perfection, not a fault in sight - even without the usual sausage order.
It's easy to understand why visitors are keen to compliment the chef on Trip Advisor afterwards.
The business has been in the Nimmo family for half a century.
"It's been in my family for 50 years," Robert explains.
"I've had it for ten. It's gone from uncle to my uncle, my nan ran it, my aunty, my mother. Now me and I've got no hair left."
Robert says that pleasing customers is his favourite part of the job.
"Being number one, we certainly get busy but we don't get all the business. I think being number one or number 40 makes no difference. I think once people find their feet somewhere it's hard to get them away from there.
"But I think when they come and try it, we've always got new faces coming in and our regulars. Regulars keep the business afloat."
All the breakfasts cost less than £6 and the Snack Box also do hot meals and desserts.
It's open from around 8am - 4.30pm, six days a week.
