
# Meghan's moving speech at Luminary Bakery reveals more about her personal struggles

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:53:48+00:00**

Author: **Bashiera Parker (@bparks_)**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/Royal-News/meghans-moving-speech-at-luminary-bakery-reveals-more-about-her-personal-struggles-20191101)

Cape Town – Meghan Markle stopped by Luminary Bakery recently – the confectionery that she’s championed in the past for the work they do in empowering women who are struggling to find their feet.
According to ET, after listening to women who had suffered abuse and were still trying to come back from that, she said, "I was talking about this with someone the other day. We get into this habit of wanting things done immediately nowadays. There’s a culture of instant gratification, of the instant fix. But we aren’t mechanical objects that need to be fixed. You’re a wounded creature that needs to be healed, and that takes time. And that’s what I love about this place. It gives you the support to heal."
Meghan’s long-admired the work of Luminary Bakery, even featuring them in her #ForcesForChange Vogue issue and having them bake her birthday cake, this time around though, she stopped by to celebrate the opening of the bakery’s new location.

        SEE A VIDEO OF THE SPECIAL OPENING HERE:
      
Though Meghan’s visit had much to do with her admiration for the incredible work these women are doing, we can’t help but wonder if, on this visit, she felt particularly moved and inspired by the restorative power of Luminary Bakery. She recently admitted in the ITV documentary Harry & Meghan: An African Journey that she’s "not really okay".
The new documentary and revelations came shortly of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex revealed they’d be suing several tabloids over the publication of one of Meghan’s private letters and their continued misrepresentation of the royal couple.
Tom Bradby, who followed the couple on their tour of Africa, said after everything although the couple smiled for cameras, they are noticeably "bruised and vulnerable".
In a new interview for The Telegraph, Meghan opened up to Bryony Gordon while visiting Luminary Bakery. He said it perfectly in his piece, writing that it appears with Meghan, she’s "damned if she does, and she is damned if she doesn’t", but though she may be wounded, she appears steadfast – and strong as ever.
He wrote, "Meghan doesn’t 'want people to love her, she just wanted [them] to be able to hear her.'
"Luminary Bakery seems to be the place that not only provides support and an ear for the survivors but perhaps also for the Duchess."

        (Photo: Getty Images)
      
