
# Rangers' League Cup final with Celtic is their biggest in 91 years - big match verdict

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:02:49+00:00**

Author: **Gary Ralston, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gary-ralston/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/rangers-league-cup-final-celtic-20807126)

Their names are the stuff of Ibrox legend and their memory is revered as the ghosts of a glorious yesteryear.
For Sandy Archibald, Bob McPhail and Dougie Gray read Steven Davis, Alfredo Morelos and James Tavernier.
Rangers didn’t so much romp past Hearts at Hampden yesterday as bludgeon them to death as they set up their most important domestic final against Celtic since 1928.
Back then, skipper Dave Meiklejohn stepped forward 10 minutes into the second half and scored a penalty that set Gers on the way to a 4-0 win at Mount Florida.
It ended a 25-year wait for the Scottish Cup and halted a Hampden hoodoo that started when the club were on their financial uppers after the first Ibrox disaster.
If – and it’s a big if – Rangers can overcome their fiercest rivals at this old venue on December 8 it will be every bit as significant a success as 91 years ago on the same acre.
It would restore Steven Gerrard’s side to a position of relevance and authority they have struggled to re-establish since they collapsed into the financial abyss in 2012.
It may just also place them in the driving seat for the title itself in a month that’s shaping up as the most exciting Scots football has seen for years, with an Old Firm league clash at Parkhead also looming.
Of course, Celtic will not be as accommodating in four weeks’ time as Hearts, who were wretched throughout and could have lost by seven or eight.
 
The second half in particular was a procession, a parade towards the Rangers end with as many gaps opening up in the away end as the maroon defence as disgusted and forlorn Jambos headed for the exits.
These are awful days for the Gorgie faithful, who failed to see their side display even a fraction of the spirit that had earned them praise in last season’s Scottish Cup showpiece against Celtic.
But quality tells and, in Morelos, Rangers had the most dominant and influential figure on the pitch – not for the first time this season.
The little Colombian was utterly unplayable, assisting at Filip Helander’s opener in first-half injury-time before adding a double after the break to take his tally for the season to 20.
His contribution, above all others, rendered the last half hour of the game utterly meaningless.
If Hearts were a dog they would have been put down as an act of humanity and kindness to prevent any further physical and emotional turmoil.
The Jambos never recovered from the early loss of influential midfielder Glenn Whelan, who limped off with a hamstring injury and denied his side their one calming influence in the middle of the park.
This time last year Steven MacLean was given a two-match ban for grabbing Celtic player Eboue Kouassi between the legs at the same stage of the competition at Murrayfield.
This time he gripped his own team by the short and curlies and twisted hard, his enforced substitution five minutes before the interval – hooked before he was sent off – costing Austin MacPhee dear.
His replacement, Uche Ikpeazu, was caught cold minutes later when he lost Helander at the decisive opener. The Swede ran in to slam a low cross from Morelos high into the net from eight yards and give Rangers the breathing space they craved.
MacPhee was bold enough to line up in a 4-3-3, hoping his narrow midfield would force Rangers wide and Christophe Berra and Michael Smith could cope with the crosses thrown in from right and left.
It worked to an extent in the first half but they were so impoverished going forward, and showed such a feeble lack of adventure in possession, it was always going to be a case of how many Rangers would score.
Hearts created one chance of note, an Ikpeazu effort early in the second half cleared a yard from the line by Ryan Jack, but the game had long since gone.
Morelos made the difference, his link-up play and eye for goal sealing his side’s victory and ending a dreadful run of six defeats on the spin at Hampden, stretching back to the 2016 Cup debacle against Hibs.
He helped Helander at the crucial opener – Gers’ first goal in 521 minutes of competitive action at the stadium – but the writing was on the wall long before that.
Ryan Kent cracked a post, Smith made two decisive blocks and keeper Joel Pereira threw himself left and right to keep out Tavernier and Ryan Jack.
If the opener was a blow to Hearts, the second little more than a minute after the re-start cemented their position as second best in the contest by the length of the M8.
Kent fed Borna Barisic on the overlap down the left and his cross was nodded by Sheyi Ojo out wide to Tavernier, whose first time delivery was brilliantly bulleted in at the front post from point-blank range by Morelos.
The only surprise was it took Rangers until the 63rd minute to underline their superiority.
Morelos knocked a header wide to Kent and he ripped Aaron Hickey to pieces before turning the ball back for his team-mate to fire in from six yards.
Hearts had long abandoned their gameplan, settling instead for holding on for dear life as Berra stood almost as a one-man barrier to further Rangers strikes.
 
A back-post volley from Jack was batted over the bar by Pereira and Morelos cracked a ferocious drive off the post moments before his second.
The former HJK Helsinki frontman thought he’d scored a hat-trick on 69 minutes when he back-heeled a low cross from Joe Aribo into the net but he’d run forward too quickly and was correctly flagged offside.
Rangers fans lapped it up and only a super double stop from Perreira in the closing stages denied subs Jermain Defoe and Scott Arfield from adding to their tally.
Few would have denied Rangers a fourth but three was emphatic enough as they prepare for one of the biggest occasions in their history.
