
# Exposing one's selfies: Aucklanders answer call for city snapshots – in pictures

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:03:30+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/gallery/2019/oct/22/exposings-ones-selfies-aucklanders-answer-call-for-city-snapshots-in-pictures)


        Curators have added 1,000 selfies to Auckland Museum’s permanent photography collection after calling on the public to submit them. ‘Our collection holds more than 3m photographs, dating back to the early days of photography, and a part of my role is to ensure our collection continues to reflect trends,’ says its curator of pictorial, Shaun Higgins. ‘The selfie is a present-day photographic phenomenon that can’t be overlooked’ • Insider’s guide to Auckland: a multicultural melting pot by the sea
      
‘This rooster jumps on my shoulder every time I enter the garage to get the chicken feed, hoping for some extras.’
Photograph: Sundarr Reddy/Auckland Museum
‘A treasured annual tradition.’
Photograph: Lisa Rudolphe/Museum of Auckland
‘At a peace rally following the Christ Church massacre a cop Rob & I helped 95yr old John Sato walk from Queens St up Wellesley & on to Victoria Park. John caught 4 buses to be there, a photo of him went viral. John was 1 of 2 Japanese in the NZ Army in WW2.’
Photograph: Bruce Hopkins/Auckland Museum
‘My two flatmates and I surveying our suburb. A casual climb up Mt eden on a regular day from our flat on Dominion road chased the blues away and we got some stretches in before work.’
Photograph: Mollie Durey/Museum of Auckland
‘Taken in One Tree Hill.’
Photograph: Fen Lee/Auckland Museum
‘Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern attends the 2019 ASB Polyfest in Auckland.’
Photograph: Jacinda Ardern/Auckland Museum
‘Sunday morning coffee run to Muriwai.’
Photograph: Brent Topine/Museum of Auckland
‘After 4 miscarriages, countless heartaches and more than 15 hours of labour, the Lord has blessed us with our daughter. Our rainbow after the storm -- Celestine Marie.’
Photograph: Jaymard Colmenar/Museum of Auckland
‘This was the first time I watched super rugby in Auckland.’
Photograph: Tom Liu/Auckland Museum
‘Sammi and Leandra snap a selfie with their makeup done for NZFW Cecilia Kang’s Solo Fashion Show 2019. Selfie taken in Hue Hair Salon, Ponsonby. Both were competing in the first ever Cat Walk Idol Competition run by Bintang Models.’
Photograph: Sammi Haines/Auckland Museum
‘St Peters Rowing squad row out to the harbour bridge on a cloudy Auckland day.’
Photograph: Tom Berry/Auckland Museum
‘After an AK Samba gig we met Helen Clarke in Ponsonby.’
Photograph: Martin Horspool/Auckland Museum
‘Myself and the legend Dave Dobbyn shopping at Countdown in Grey Lynn, Auckland.’
Photograph: Hannah Spear/Auckland Museum
‘Father and son enjoying an evening out at cricket, Eden Park.’
Photograph: Keith Simento/Auckland Museum
‘Enjoying the Sunrise Rave event held at Queen’s Wharf. Silent disco + coffee + kombucha + dancing from 6.30am-8am = amazing summer vibes!’
Photograph: Andrew Tui/Auckland Museum
‘This picture (taken at Te Henga/Bethells Beach, West Auckland) features a selfie of myself with my second son Esteban, enjoying the fresh air of the beach. Life is beautiful!’
Photograph: Maximiliano Pierret/Auckland Museum
