
# Remembering Plymstock's Oreston Carnival in the early 2000s

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Miles O&#39;Leary**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/family-kids/remembering-plymstocks-oreston-carnival-early-3491650)

Remember when Oreston Carnival was actually a thing?
It attracted thousands of people every year, young and old, who just wanted to have fun in the sun and do right by the community.
It was every kids' dream to be part of the carnival procession that snaked its way through the streets of Plymstock and finished up down on Oreston Quay for a major celebration - complete with fairground rides, music and silly games.
You'd practically made it in life if you were chosen to be the Carnival Queen - that special someone who took centre stage and enjoyed the privilege of being treated like royalty for the entirety of the spectacle.
It reached its peak in the mid noughties when live entertainment was brought in to ramp up the party vibe.
Some might remember a funny old band called Clubcard blasting out renditions of Black Sabbath's Paranoid and U2's Beautiful Day on the back of a truck, in front of the King's Arms pub. The lead guitarist had a dodgy, blue-dye hairdo, from memory.
But, as the old saying goes, all good things come to an end.
Such was the case with Oreston Carnival; it ultimately got too big, too expensive, and began attracting trouble in the later years, resulting in its demise.
Some (like me) will remember the older kids who'd come from outside of Plymstock to cause a bit of chaos.
They jumped on cars, started fires, and chased the posher children out the village; literally.
But Oreston Carnival by and large was a mighty force for the community that raised huge amounts of money for worthy causes and did so much to improve local relations and create long-lasting magical moments for excited school children.
Click below on the link to a gallery looking back at  all its finest moments - there's even a few in there dating back to the 1940s!
Have you got a story to tell? Get in touch with Plymouth Live's Miles O'Leary on 01752 293 066 or email miles.oleary@reachplc.com
