
# What Is The Upside Potential For Morgan Stanley’s Stock?

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/04/what-is-the-upside-potential-for-morgan-stanleys-stock/)

Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) is a global investment bank which mainly deals in four business segments: advisory & underwriting services (investment banking), sales & trading, investment management and wealth management. Trefis has a price estimate of $55 for Morgan Stanley’s stock – representing a potential upside of 20% for the company’s stock. Morgan Stanley’s earnings for the third quarter were a surprise, with the bank beating consensus estimates for both revenues and earnings by a margin. More importantly, the bank’s earnings bucked the trend seen this quarter for the largest U.S. banks wherein those with sizable traditional banking operations (like Citigroup) performed better than those reliant more heavily on investment banking activities (like Goldman).We have detailed the key components of Morgan Stanley’s Valuation in an interactive dashboard, along with our forecast for the full-year 2019.

        The stock price estimate can be divided into 4 factors: Stock Price = (Total revenue x Net income margin / No. of shares outstanding) x P/E Ratio
      
Our interactive dashboard for Morgan Stanley details trends in revenues for Morgan Stanley’s operating segments along with our forecast for the next three years

        #2 Deriving Morgan Stanley’s Net Income Figure
      

        #3 Deriving Morgan Stanley’s EPS Figure
      

        #4 Estimating Morgan Stanley’s Share Price
      
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
