
# Terror alert which shut city centre was caused by musician in balaclava filming promo

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:49:26+00:00**

Author: **Neal Keeling, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/neal-keeling/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/terror-alert-shut-city-centre-20836890)

A terror alert which shut part of a city centre was caused by musician in balaclava filming a promotional video, it's claimed.
The musician, who uses stage name Outlaw, said he was filming a music video when he was stopped by police .
An Instagram post, which includes a statement from "a solicitor" about the incident, details he was working in Deansgate, Manchester, on Wednesday October 30, wearing a black balaclava, combat pants and bubble coat.
Pictures on the account show a black Range Rover with the number plate "Outlaw," Manchester Evening News says.
But police boxed in a car, which matches that description , on Deansgate that day and investigated suspicious activity.
Two suspects - aged 57 and 22 - were released without charge the next day. Outlaw claims officers drove him and a colleague home at 3am.
 
He said today: "I was filming a music video for my album at the time.
"We didn't get a chance to explain what we were doing.
"We've been out filming music videos before and have been stopped but this time we didn't get chance."
Outlaw said he wants to clear up what happened for the sake of the public, not to 'make a fool of the police'.
"We had cameras in the car and filming equipment but none of this was mentioned in the statement," he said.
"We are careful about where we film, we are not trying to scare the public."
 
A Greater Manchester Police (GMP) spokesman said: “We have previously released a comprehensive statement in relation to this incident, we are now considering the evidence gathered and whether a prosecution will now take place for non-terrorism related offences."
A statement said to be issued by a 'solicitor' for Outlaw, but with no firm identified, read: "Outlaw and his team were filming video in Manchester on Wednesday, October 30.
"They were stopped by police on Deansgate at 2.30pm and arrested on suspicion of a public order offence." 
The statement added: "They weren't questioned and were not given an opportunity to explain the circumstances. They were taken to GMP headquarters in Newton Heath and detained without questioning.
The charge was escalated to suspicion of terrorism offences under section 41 TACT. They were refused a phone call by a superintendent.
"They made multiple requests for the charging officer to provide reasonable suspicion that they were involved in the commission, preparation or instigation of terrorism. This was never, and still has not been explained in any context.
"GMP released a press statement at 7.40pm explaining nothing found in car was terror realted. My clients were released more than 8 hours after the statement."
It adds: "My clients were treated with respect by most officers at GMP Newton Heath.
"All their property and equipment was returned undamaged. Several officers apologised after the charges were dropped and gave my clients a lift home at 3.30am.
"The charging officer still hasn't provided any reasonable suspicion."
The post includes a still photograph of the arrest and a picture of Outlaw stood next to the Range Rover outside Strangeways prison.
In another clip, he demonstrates outside Starbucks coffee shop in Piccadilly Gardens regarding the level of tax the company pays.
Following the Deansgate incident, GMP said the men were released without charge.
"Following a thorough investigation of the circumstances, police are satisfied that the incident was not terrorism-related," a force statement read.
GMP said a 'precautionary cordon was put in place' before 'an assessment was carried out of suspicious items found in a car'.
Items included a replica police uniform and replica police baton and utility belt, police said.
"Further items were found that required assessment by bomb disposal officers," the statement added.
"Following assessment, it was confirmed that the items represented no danger to the public."
Police said the men were 'initially uncooperative at the scene and failed to provide a reasonable explanation for their behaviour'.
Detectives searched a home in Stockport, Greater Manchester.
Assistant Chief Constable Nick Bailey said: "Police are treating this as irresponsible behaviour that has quite rightly been reported as suspicious by members of the public."
