
# Google Home app gets a UI refresh and new Cast controls with version 2.15

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:53:20+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/google-home-app-gets-ui-refresh-and-new-cast-controls-version-215?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
The Google Home app has a new simpler design rolling out with version 2.15. With this new UI, Google has cleaned up a lot of the clutter and streamlines the app quite a bit.
For starters, the add new device button has been relocated to the top left corner of the app, while in the right corner the three-dot menu button has been replaced with an account switcher. Similar to the account switcher in many of Google's latest app updates, it now allows you to swap accounts with a quick swipe down over your profile photo.

        Source: Android Central
      
The bottom of the Home app now looks much different as Google has now cleaned up much of the clutter by consolidating the previous four-button layout down to only two buttons. Going forward, instead of seeing buttons for Home, Discover, Browse, and Account, there is now only Home and Discover.
The Discover section of the app has also received a refreshed UI, starting with the font at the top which has been changed and is now in bold. Next, the cards have been redesigned to be larger with rounded corners and feature a colorful background.

        Source: Android Central
      
There are also some new additions to the Settings menu. If you scroll all the way to the bottom, there is now a section for Google Assistant services. From here, you'll be able to manage your Shopping list and link your preferred music and video services.

        Source: Android Central
      
More importantly for Nest users, this is where you'll be able to view a history of events triggered by your Nest cam. If you don't own one like myself, then you'll simply see "No recorded events" when checking this section. Events should also show up in the Discover section as they happen.
Finally, the Cast media controls have also been updated, but appear to be rolling out on the server-side, so not all users will have access to them yet. If you are one of the lucky ones with the new controls, the Play button on the main page of the Google Home app will now be renamed to Media.

        Source: Android Police
      
As you can see, the Cast media controls have undergone a massive overhaul here. Instead of the previous white background with controls, there is now a blurred background with album art and media controls, along with a new volume slider at the bottom.

        Source: Android Police
      
It also features a new card layout, allowing you to swipe to the side and view media being cast on different devices on your network. This includes all of your Cast-enabled speakers, displays, and Android TVs.
Additionally, the updated UI also gives you access to transferring media to other devices — a feature Google recently introduced that previously was only accessible via a voice command. 
Video security, no hub needed
The Google Nest Cam gives you 24/7 live video recording with a 130-degree view to make sure you can see everything going on around your home.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Double the fun For developers, Surface Neo and Duo represent a unique opportunity Surface Duo and Surface Neo are some of the most enticing devices Microsoft has ever announced. But how will developers take advantage of these new foldables?
      

        Binge time Hulu's offline downloads finally rolling out for Android users After adding offline downloads earlier this month for iOS devices, Hulu has now added the feature to the Android app.
      

        Done deal Google has officially purchased Fitbit for $2.1 billion Following a report from earlier this week, it's now been confirmed that Google has acquired Fitbit for a total of $2.1 billion.
      

        Buyer's guide How to upgrade your smart home set up for under $100 You can add some smart home magic to your home with any of these products that are available for under $100.
      
