
# Sorry We Missed You review – a gruelling stint in the gig economy

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:00:18+00:00**

Author: **Mark Kermode**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/nov/03/sorry-we-missed-you-review-ken-loach)


        A delivery driver is ground down by the system in Ken Loach’s moving yet increasingly melodramatic tale
      
“You don’t get hired here,” states Maloney (Ross Brewster), the hard-nosed delivery-depot boss in Ken Loach’s searing examination of zero-hours Britain. “You come on board. We call it on-boarding. You don’t work for us – you work with us.” It’s a prime example of the doublespeak that underwrites today’s gig-economy culture, brilliantly captured by Paul Laverty’s justifiably embittered script. As sold to hard-grafting Ricky Turner (Kris Hitchen), it’s an opportunity to become “the master of your own destiny” – a self-employed franchise-owner, freed from wage slavery (there are only “fees”) in a brave new world in which everything “is your choice”.
Yet despite Ricky’s determination to grab this opportunity and make it work for him and his family, he’s been sold a lie – all he’s really being freed from are basic workers’ rights. Before the drama is over, that hollow declaration of choice will come back to haunt Ricky, painfully revealed as nothing more than an enslaving illusion.
From the outset we know where this is going, as the costs immediately start piling up. First there’s the van, which requires a £1,000 deposit, raised by selling the car that Ricky’s wife, Abby (Debbie Honeywood), needs for her own work. She’s already overstretched – an agency care-worker in an uncaring world, shuttling endlessly between too-short appointments with the elderly and infirm, struggling to live up to her golden rule: “Treat them like your mam.” Then there are the costs of the job; the hundreds of pounds of fines incurred if Ricky doesn’t show up on time; the thousands he owes if he loses his parcels or his tracker, even when he gets robbed.
More profound is the cost to Ricky’s family life, as he and Abby find their every waking hour devoured by work, unable to spend much-needed time with the kids: teenage graffiti artist Seb (Rhys Stone) who is increasingly skipping school, to the exhausted anger of his father; and smart young daughter, Liza Jane (Katie Proctor), who sees her parents’ pain and desperately wants things to be “the way they were…”
