
# Unai Emery's original Arsenal 'captain's group' - and how they've fared at club

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:50:02+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/unai-emerys-original-arsenal-captains-20823582)

“I had a meeting with him and told him he is no longer in the captain’s group."
And with that it was done.
Granit Xhaka was Arsenal's de-facto skipper for a little more than a month, as the Swiss midfielder saw his role - a role that his teammates voted to give him earlier this season - taken away from him and given to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang in those words from Unai Emery at his press conference in Portugal on Tuesday.
For Xhaka, the situation had become somewhat untenable ever since his now infamous substitution against Crystal Palace last month, but he is far from the first member of Emery's trusted "captain's group" to fall by the wayside during the Spaniard's time at the club.
The former Sevilla and Paris Saint-Germain boss arrived in North London in the summer of 2018, fresh on the heels of the retirement of club captain Per Mertesacker.
He needed a replacement, and so named five of them.
“The captain of this group is Laurent Koscielny, who is injured at the moment,” he told the Gunners website .
“After Laurent, our other captains are Petr Cech, Aaron Ramsey, Mesut Ozil and Granit Xhaka.
“I want leaders in the team, every player at every time to have the capacity to show leadership, but these are the five players who have a possibility to be the captain.”
Like Spinal Tap getting a new drummer, what could possibly go wrong?
Well, this...
The logical choice for Emery's first club captain, Koscielny was largely loved by Gunners fans after arriving in 2010, with only injuries standing in the way of his progress as one of the leading defenders in the game.
A club stalwart and often club hero, things went sour after another injury-hit campaign in 2018/19, after which he demanded to be allowed to leave the club for free, refused to go on a pre-season tour to America, went on strike and eventually joined Bordeaux.
What leadership.
Emery would have known that the veteran goalkeeper was coming to the end of his career when he named him in the group, and sure enough the 2018/19 campaign proved to be his last as a professional.
He managed 22 games across the season, often skippering the sides in the cups, before calling it a day after the 4-1 Europa League final defeat to his former club Chelsea , who he promptly joined a technical and performance advisor, whatever that is.
Oh and he now plays ice hockey too .
The Welshman's contract situation was seen as something that Emery would sort out upon his arrival, but it was ultimately allowed to slide.
Having been an Arsenal player since 2008, the midfielder and his camp were unable to agree on a new deal, with his existing one running down to the point of expiry as he joined Juventus on a free transfer.
This one still feels like it could have been avoided.
An increasingly curious presence in the squad, Emery will have known all about the German's qualities and reputation upon his arrival at Arsenal, but his character is something he perhaps wouldn't have been prepared for.
Ozil has flitted in and out of Emery's plans, and he's played just three times in the current season, including just once in the Premier League.
Presumably still in the 'captains group', there was no serious chance of him becoming first-choice skipper.
After the departure of Koscielny led to a player vote to decide the next skipper, the general public's reaction to Xhaka winning that vote was largely a mixture of shock and ridicule.
The Swiss has never been an overly popular figure with many, and his reaction to being substituted against Crystal Palace last month - and subsequent statement - proved to be the final straw.
Good luck Pierre!
