
# Andre Gomes' sickening injury and stars' reactions put football into perspective

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:32:50+00:00**

Author: **David Maddock, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-maddock/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/andre-gomes-sickening-injury-stars-20803992)

It was a moment so sickening, that even hardened professionals who have seen everything couldn’t look.
When Andre Gomes shuddered into Serge Aurier after being tripped by Son, it rendered the rest of this contest, if not meaningless, then at least inconsequential in comparison.
Both Aurier and Son were in tears, Son still sobbing in the dressing room long after the game had finished.
Djibril Sidibe held his head in his hands, while almost all the other players had to walk away to compose themselves.
Cenk Tosun cradled the head of the Portuguese player as he writhed in agony on the turf, and at the end of the game he was in tears, remembering the pain and the horror his popular team-mate had endured.
They knew how sickening it was, how truly awful that moment was to the career of such a good guy.
And they, like us watching in shock and genuine concern, knew at that instance, nothing else mattered.
Perhaps it matters that Son doesn’t take too much condemnation for his challenge. That alone didn’t cause the leg break - and to call it a simple break underplays what happened to Gomes, because it was much more shock than that.
It was the momentum of the midfielder as his studs caught in the challenge and lurched him forward crashing him into Aurier, who was already committed to his own challenge.
Both Spurs players felt blame, but the break came in the moments in between.
There is a debate whether Son should have been dismissed, but even that seems irrelevant under these terrible circumstances. For the record, the red card is justified under the laws of the game.
Afterwards, the Premier League issued a statement suggesting his challenge from behind had no intent to win the ball, and therefore was reckless endangerment, because Gomes couldn’t see it coming and couldn’t protect himself.
That pales into insignificance when you consider a player’s career is now on the line. There seems little point in attaching blame under those cruel circumstances.
And there seems less urgency to examine other moments in the game too.
But how can anyone moan about VAR, when Gomes is lying in hospital, wondering whether he will play again?
Yet both managers say it is fatally flawed.
Mauricio Pochettino said it is creating a big mess, and could change football for the worse.
He was upset with the red card, with the VAR seeming to overturn the yellow issued initially by on field ref Martin Atkinson.
Everton boss Marco Silva was unhappy with a near four minute check for a clear handball that was not eventually given. Silva has a real point, the arm was in an unnatural position.
But the reality is, for now, for this terrible, horrible Sunday, it does not matter.
