
# Here’s everyone cast in DC’s The Batman so far

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:50:00+00:00**

Author: **Petrana Radulovic**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/7/20925034/the-batman-2021-cast-robert-pattinson-zoe-kravitz-paul-dano-colin-farrell)

As DC Entertainment’s Snyderverse dissipates, the latest take on the caped crusader is on the horizon. The Batman comes from Cloverfield and War for the Planet of the Apes director Matt Reeves. And with a release date set for 2021, the reboot is slowly but surely amassing a cast.
Originally, Ben Affleck was set to direct and star in the film, but thanks to scheduling and development hell, the Bat-fleck take of the movie was shelved. Goodbye Affleck, hello Reeves.
Unlike this October’s Joker, which set itself separate from Aquaman, Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice, and the ever-changing DC Extended Universe, The Batman is expected to be part of the DCEU, though only through small connections. It won’t be an origin story, either, said Reeves and instead will be a “noir-driven” original story
We learned that RPattz would take up the cowl last May. X-Men: Dark Phoenix ‘s Nicholas Hoult was reportedly up for the role, but Pattinson beat him out. The English actor was Reeves’ first choice for the role. In addition to playing Edward Cullen in the Twilight saga, Pattinson also has a robust filmography of independent movies. Most recently, he starred in indie horror flick The Lighthouse.
Wright will play the steadfast Gotham police commissioner, a role Gary Oldman and J.K. Simmons have also played. The Westworld actor also appeared in the Hunger Games as District 3 tribute Beetee.
Kravitz follows a long line of totally awesome Catwoman actresses, including Eartha Kitt, Michelle Pfeiffer, and Anne Hathaway. She played Leta Lestrange in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald, but was killed off at the end of the movie so she doesn’t have any outstanding Wizarding World commitments. Incidentally, Kravitz also voiced Catwoman in The Lego Batman Movie.
The Batman is rumored to have six villains. Six! The next addition to the rogue’s gallery is Paul Dano, who is reportedly playing the Riddler.
Hill was in the talks to appear in The Batman, reportedly as either the Penguin or Riddler, but that didn’t pan out. Alas! But fret not because...
Might be an odd casting choice considering the last onscreen Penguin was played by Danny Devito (who incidentally was in 2019’s Dumbo with Farrell), but hey! We’ll take it.
You may know Serkis as Gollum. Or maybe as Caesar from Reeves’ Apes films. Or maybe as Ulysses Klaue in Age of Ultron and Black Panther. Or as the upcoming director of Venom 2. One thing’s for certain — Serkis will have a distinct take on Batman’s beloved butler.
You may know Giacchino from the Pixar soundtracks, most notably The Incredibles (and its sequel), Ratatouille, and Up. Giacchino also did the scores for the Tom Holland Spider-Man movies, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, and Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom among others.
The Batman is set to swoop into theaters on a June 25, 2021.
