
# Cornerstone OnDemand Sees A Big Opportunity In Online Training

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Robert DeFrancesco**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/robertdefrancesco/2019/10/31/cornerstone-ondemand-sees-a-big-opportunity-in-online-training/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

It has been nearly two years since Cornerstone OnDemand (CSOD) first embarked on its strategic transformation plan. The company—a provider of cloud-based human capital management (HCM) software—has made solid progress in achieving its main goals of boosting margins, enhancing profitability and funding new growth initiatives to expand the recurring revenue stream. Shareholders have benefited from the improved fundamentals. After falling 16% in 2017, Cornerstone stock rose 42% last year. So far in 2019, the shares are up 16%. The all-time high of $62.66 was reached in July.
One of the most important things Cornerstone did in 2018 was to move its enterprise services delivery business to its global partner ecosystem. The company’s services unit, a business that operates at only breakeven, had become too big. By shifting the services deals to partners, Cornerstone has been able to increase overall operating margin and free up sales reps to concentrate on selling software.
With the partner community now more engaged with Cornerstone, individual partners have more of an incentive to bring in new business through the channel, which provides another key selling motion for the company. In Q2, Cornerstone was able to reduce non-recurring services revenue to just 6.5% of total revenue.
Since sales reps now spend a lot less time selling services, overall sales productivity has gotten a boost. As measured by new annual recurring revenue (ARR) per rep, sales productivity in 2018 was up 50%. Operating margin in 2018 hit 12%, an increase of 600 basis points year over year.

        Focus On Content
      
Cornerstone management is focused on driving more recurring revenue, with an emphasis on expanding the company’s presence in online training. Introduced in Q4 2017, Content Anytime is a subscription-based content offering. The worldwide market for third-party online training courses is estimated to be worth more than $25 billion.
With a Content Anytime subscription, organizations have access to thousands of video-enabled, mobile-ready courses across a variety of languages and topics. The courses are geared toward developing “hard skills” (those that have particular relevance to an employee’s role) and “soft skills” such as effective communications, collaboration and problem-solving. 
Cornerstone has formed important strategic partnerships with key learning content providers. Over the past 12 months, more than 550 million online course registrations took place on the Cornerstone platform, with more than 350 million completions. A personalization engine delivers the most relevant and popular courses to users, with the goal to drive engagement and improve productivity.
It was only logical for Cornerstone to expand across the content segment, as the company is already a leading provider of learning management solutions. Content Anytime attaches well on Cornerstone’s new learning management deals, providing a price lift of 3x to 10x (depending on the subscription, industry and size of the customer). In Q2, Cornerstone closed its first multimillion-dollar deal for Content Anytime.
Cornerstone’s installed base of learning management customers represents a prime market for Content Anytime. The company ended the June quarter with a total customer base of more than 3,600 and 40 million+ users. 
Cornerstone continually adds and refreshes course content as part of the Content Anytime subscription. The company is committed to continuing to invest in the content arena, which should help drive worldwide market share gains. In Europe, the Content Anytime offering has been well received by learning management customers because of the multi-language capabilities.
In November 2018, Cornerstone paid $24 million for Grovo Learning, a leading provider of micro-learning content. Founded in 2010, Grovo is known for teaching a single concept in just three to five minutes. Grovo courses have become popular in workplace training because of their easy accessibility and ample effectiveness. Before the acquisition, Grovo had produced more than 2,500 micro-learning courses across a range of topics for 300+ clients.
Recruiting continues to be another important focus area for Cornerstone. The overall goal is to increase the penetration rate for the company’s recruiting solution across the customer base. A little over a year ago, Cornerstone acquired Workpop, an easy-to-use mobile recruiting solution aimed at entry-level and hourly employees in the retail, manufacturing and healthcare verticals. Cornerstone also rolled out Frontline, a recruiting solution specifically for frontline employees.
