
# Save $100 On The Bose Home Speaker 500 With Amazon Alexa

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:01:45+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-bose-home-speaker-500-amazon-alexa-sale-deal.html)

Right now, you can save $100 on the Bose Home Speaker 500 from Amazon, bringing the price down to just $299.
This is the lowest price it has ever been, and it is also the first time that the Bose Home Speaker 500 has dropped in price. Seeing as Bose products rarely ever drop in price, this is the time to grab one. It likely won't get any cheaper, come Black Friday in a few weeks.
The Bose Home Speaker 500 is a larger speaker, compared to the Home Speaker 300 that is also on sale right now. So it can output a lot more sound and really fill a room. For $100 more than the Bose Home Speaker 300, you're getting that larger speaker, but also a display.
Advertisement
Now this is not meant to work like an Echo Show, where it has a display for Alexa. This display is mostly for album art, and showing you the time. As you can see, it is a pretty small one. So you won't be watching any video on it. It's a pretty cool addition though for album art and such. But it would be cooler if it was a larger display that Alexa could use.
The Bose Home Speaker 500 is really good for putting on a bedside table, so that you can play music at night – like white noise, to go to sleep.
Like most smart speakers out there, you're going to be able to play music over WiFi, Bluetooth and AirPlay 2, actually. So if Alexa doesn't support the streaming music service you are using, you can still use Bluetooth or WiFi (or AirPlay 2 if you have an iOS device). Which is really nice to have.
Advertisement
You can pick up the Bose Home Speaker 500 from Amazon right now by clicking here. This sale won't last long, so you'd better grab it before it is gone.

        Bose Home Speaker 500 - Amazon - $299
      
