
# Chris Brown announces high-end garage sale at his Los Angeles home and invites fans

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:15:22+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/chris-brown-announces-high-end-20829275)

Chris Brown is giving his fans a chance to buy his possessions after announcing he is having high-end garage sale.
The Look at Me Now hitmaker, 30, invited his fans to come to his Los Angeles home to purchase from his designer wardrobe on Instagram and Twitter .
He designed a cartoon advert that stated that the event started at 10am on Wednesday and will go on until 7pm.
The post boasted that there will be "significantly marked-down high-end designer items".
He captioned the posts: "DA CRIB ... 2 day event."
Proving it was a well organised affair, aerial shots shared onto his Instagram stories of the event showed a number of marquees set up as stalls in the ground of his mansion.
It comes after Chris has been accused of taking a graphic artist’s work without giving proper credit.
Artist Don Mupasi, 25, called out the singer for allegedly stealing one of his artistic pieces on Instagram and demanded he give him recognition.
Don, from Manchester, said it was a 'bittersweet feeling' to have Brown steal his work.
He said it while it proves that his art is 'pretty decent', it doesn't benefit him when 'people are willing to just grab it'.
The artist took to the Internet to criticise the singer, 31, after he discovered the post on Friday.
The rapper appeared to take the video of a man walking down a road with a starry sunset from Don's page and posted to his own Instagram for his 57.6million followers to watch.
Don posted the video tiled ' ANOMALY ' in September and admitted he was happy for viewers to re-share his visuals as long as they tagged him in the post.
He pointed out his requirements for people using his work in the caption: "Feel free to repost, tag us if you do. HD link in highlights."
It appears that Chris ignored this request and not only removed Don's song choice and replaced it with the Natural Disaster/ Aura song from his Indigo album but also wrote his own caption, posting: "Imagination vibrate wit me".
Don recently spoke to Radio 1 Newsbeat about the incident.
He said: "I want people to know it's me who created it. I think that's fair.
"When he posted it with some hip-hop song over it, it's really not the kind of vibe I wanted for that piece of work. But he just put some weird hip-hop song on it and then made some caption which doesn't really make any sense."
The artist added: "But if he had tagged me and just gave credit I would have been cool with that, and that would have brought a lot more eyes to my actual work."
After attempting and failing to get in touch with the singer and his management, The Manchester artist took to reddit to call out the singer publicly.
Aiming to 'bring some attention to it', Don placed the two videos side and by side and was shocked by the positive response when over 80,000 users supported him.
