
# Scots rapist claims victim had his baby without the pair having sex

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:01:06+00:00**

Author: **Connor Gordon, Lynn Love**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/scots-rapist-claims-victim-baby-20788649)

A rapist whose victim had his baby claimed she got pregnant without having sex.
Lawrence Waller attacked the young woman when she was 19 at a house in Dumfries in the early 1990s.
The 59 year-old insisted his diabetes made it "impossible" for him to have sex.
Waller instead told jurors he, his wife and the victim had a bizarre agreement that the teenager would have a baby for them.
This was to be done with the help of an ink syringe.
 
Waller claimed medics had advised his wife not to get pregnant again following earlier issue when giving birth.
The victim passed away before the trial.
But, she had bravely reported her ordeal to police prior to her death.
Jurors were read a statement by officer of what she said happened to her.
Prosecutor Mr Keegan had asked Waller during the trial did he know how the victim had passed away.
But, he replied: "I have no idea how she died."
The victim got justice from beyond the grave after Waller was convicted of rape at the High Court in Glasgow .
He will learn his fate later this month.
The trial heard how the young woman knew Waller and his wife.
Jurors heard how she fell pregnant at 19. DNA tests revealed Waller to be the father of the child.
 
The ex-taxi driver, of Dumfries, claimed in court it was a "shock".
He told jurors: "My wife and the girl had discussed about wanting to bring another child up."
Waller denied having sex with the victim - insisting the pregnancy was instead helped with the aid of "syringe used for printer ink".
His advocate Louise Arrol asked: "Was this agreed by all of you?"
Waller replied: “It was agreed that the child would live with us She could then claim the child benefit."
 
He said his wife had previously had a C-section and had been told not to give birth again.
But, prosecutor Jim Keegan QC put to Waller: "You had intercourse with her."
Waller: "Impossible. Physically impossible."
He insisted his diabetes issues had caused problems.
The victim has since died due to a heart condition.
Lord Armstrong deferred sentencing for reports.
