
# ‘Dota 2’ Adds Fast Queue To Make Matchmaking Quicker

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mike Stubbs**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/mikestubbs/2019/11/02/dota-2-adds-fast-queue-to-make-matchmaking-quicker/)

After weeks of complaints from players about long matchmaking times in Dota 2, Valve has released an update that will allow you to get into matches quicker if you don’t mind which role you will play. Ever since Valve introduced the Ranked Roles system that allows players to specify what position they would like to play in their upcoming match, the queue times for Dota 2 matches, especially at higher skill levels, have increased significantly. This is because certain roles, mostly hard support, are less popular than others and a match cannot start until every role has been filled. 
“We know that queue times have increased across the board recently, and the most significant factor contributing to this has been the stricter requirements that Ranked Roles imposes on the formation of matches,” read a blog post from Valve. “Prior to the introduction of Ranked Roles, the matchmaker had a wider pool of people to draw upon because of the few restrictions. In the past, when one or more players desired the same role, this conflict was resolved during the game itself, often with unpleasant results. This conflict is now resolved at queue time, but a price of this is that the matchmaker is often starved for players in the least-queued roles. The matchmaker must wait for players in the desired roles to enter the queue, or form sub-optimal matches with the players currently in queue to satisfy all role requirements.”
But now Valve has released a new system that is designed to make those matchmaking times quicker, the Fast Queue. Entering the Fast Queue will hopefully get you into a match quicker than the normal queue, but you will not be able to select the role that you want to play and instead will have to play whatever role you are assigned. 
“Players in the Fast Queue are given priority by the matchmaker, and will find matches much more quickly,” said Valve in the announcement post. “In order to earn games for Fast Queue, you must elect to play with all roles selected. Playing with all roles selected will also automatically place you in Fast Queue for free.”
With a bit of luck this new system will be exactly what Dota 2 needs in order to reduce those mammoth matchmaking times. The dev team will be monitoring the data around Fast Queue and seeing if further changes need to be made over the next few weeks, and will also be rolling out some small changes to the behaviour monitoring and reporting systems.
