
# Joining sit-in requires party workers' permission: Bilawal

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:24:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/517223-Joining-sit-in-requires-party-workers-permission-Bilawal)

UCH SHARIF (Dunya News) – Pakistan Peoples’ Party (PPP) Chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari on Monday said that despite pressure, we will not compromise on principles and will continue struggle for the resolution of issues of general public.
Addressing a public gathering in Uch Sharif city on Monday, he said that the masses have come out to send the puppet government packing, adding that his party only supported JUI-F Chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman to an extent of public gathering and the permission of party office bearers and workers would be needed to stage sit-in.
Bilawal said PPP will fight for the rights of the masses. “We will fight against the PTI government till our last breath to provide the people their basic rights."
The PPP chairman went on to say that this is an anti-poor government, adding that his party has always provided employment opportunities to the people, while the PTI-led government provided benefits to the rich segment of the society and completely ignored the poor people.
Bilawal further said the government is killing farmers economically and electricity, gas and dollars have also become expensive in the country. The incumbent government has pushed to masses into the tsunami of inflation, he said.
“The country is being governed by a ‘puppet  government that came into power through rigging,” he said and added the government has snatched the rights of the citizens and now they are convinced that this is not an elected government. “The PTI government has made the lives of the people miserable,” he added.
 
