
# In-Form Maritzburg March Into TKO Semi-Finals

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:58:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/telkom-knockout/telkom-knockout-quarter-final-report-maritzburg-united-v-highlands-park-01-november-2019/666566)


        Telkom Knockout
      
Result: Maritzburg United 1-1 Highlands Park (Maritzburg won 4-3 on penalties)
Date: 01 November 2019
Venue: Harry Gwala Stadium
For the second round in a row in the Telkom Knockout, Maritzburg United needed penalties to advance after overcoming Highlands Park on Friday evening.
The Team of Choice made only three changes from their win over Cape Town City, with goalkeeper Bongani Mpandle getting a run, while Judas Moseamedi was preferred to partner Thabiso Kutumela upfront at the expense of Jeremy Brockie, who was left out the squad. On the other side, only Ryan Rae, Mlungisi Mbunjana, Spiwe Msimango and Ricardo Williams kept their places from the loss against Orlando Pirates on Tuesday.
The Lions of the North started brightly, with Wayde Jooste missing a sitter in the early stages but Jerry Msane eventually opened the scoring for Highlands in the 14th minute with a looping header over Mpandle, who was unable to make proper contact with an attempted clearance.
Eric Tinkler's troops were fired up to get a reply after that and they had a wonderful chance on the half-hour mark after Mxolisi Kunene went clear on goal from a counter-attack but his low shot sailed inches wide of the upright.
The home side were piling the pressure after the break and they were finally rewarded five minutes into the second stanza after Mbunjana headed the ball into his own net from a corner situation.
Da Gama was looking for inspiration from his trusted regulars off the bench moments later, as he unleashed forward Peter Shalulile for Sabelo Nyembe, while Luckyboy Mokoena replaced veteran midfielder Reneilwe Letsholonyane.
However, the latter stages of the second half failed to provide any clear-cut openings, which ultimately sent the clash to extra-time. Unfortunately, it was the same for of extra-time, which prompted Tinkler to throw on Gabriel Nyoni for Moseamedi.
Shalulile had a chance to snatch the winner for Highlands with nine minutes remaining of extra-time but his strike was saved by Mpandle at the near post and in the end there was no winner from either side and the match went to a penalty shoot-out, where the Team of Choice held their nerve to triumph 4-3 and secure a spot in the final four.

        Here's how they lined up:
      
Maritzburg: 31. Mpandle, 25. Xulu, 36. Kunene, 3. Sanoka, 23. De Reuck, 45. Mngonyama, 4. Allie, 14. Claasen, 26. Shandu, 7. Kutumela, 20. Moseamedi.
Subs: 30. Ofori, 15. Timm,  11. Jappie, 5. Morgan, 8. Buchanan, 12. Nyoni, 17. Augusto.
Highlands: 1. Heugh, 15. Msane, 5. Fransman, 23. Msimango, 24. Rae, 8. Mbunjana, 22. Williams, 6. Letsholonyane, 27. Jooste, 12. Mogaila, 11. Nyembe.
Subs: 32. Ngobeni, 14. Mzava, 34. Motsepe, 21. Mbhele, 38. Shalulile, 10. Mokoena, 17. Ramagalela.
