
# Torpoint man admits making bomb hoaxes against schools and Super Bowl

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:54:25+00:00**

Author: **Neil Shaw**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/andreas-dowling-torpoint-bomb-hoax-3513925)

A Torpoint man has admitted making a series of bomb hoaxes against schools, the Houses of Parliament - and the super bowl.
Andreas Dowling, 24, pleaded guilty to 31 charges relating to 107 offences after he made a string of hoax bomb threats in Britain, the US, and Canada.
His crimes caused major disruption to schools, colleges, the Palace of Westminster, police stations and even the Super Bowl, a court heard.
Dowling of Torpoint, Cornwall, appeared at Bristol Crown Court today and was remanded in custody ahead of his sentencing next month.
The hoaxer was caught following an international investigation led by Counter Terrorism Policing in the South West of England, who teamed up with the FBI and officers in Michigan.
Bristol Crown Court heard that one of the charges relates to bomb threats made against Jewish schools and will be sentenced as "racially aggravated".
He also pleaded guilty to a single charge of "encouraging or assisting the commission of an offence believing it would be committed" under the Protection of Children Act 1978.
This related to Dowling threatening to "ruin the life" of a 17-year-old girl in the US unless she sent him nude photographs of herself.
The defendant, who is deaf, was assisted in entering his pleas from the dock by a lip speaker. Seventy five schools and colleges across London, the West Midlands, Devon, Cornwall, Avon and Somerset, and West Yorkshire all fell victim to the hoaxes in January and February 2016.
But the investigation between the different agencies uncovered many earlier offences committed by Dowling in the US dating back to 2014. The court heard that Dowling - who used software to disguise his voice when making the hoax calls - was a member of a small online group which claimed responsibility for a campaign of bomb threats across the world in 2016.
This caused substantial disruption to the education of tens of thousands of pupils and sparked major policing responses in the affected areas.
His crimes included 20 counts of making hoax bomb threats to schools across England and the Houses of Parliament between January 19 and February 8, 2016.
He admitted a further 10 offences relating to hoax bomb threats made to a number of American schools and police departments and the New England Patriots v Seattle Seahawks Super Bowl XLIX between October 10, 2014 and February 1, 2015, as well as a threat to a Canadian school during the same period.
The defendant also admitted an offence of encouraging the distribution of an indecent image of a child.
He will be sentenced on Monday, 2 December at Exeter Crown Court. Speaking after the case Senior National Coordinator for Pursue, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Dean Haydon, said: “When Counter Terrorism Policing colleagues in the South West began investigating back in 2016, they were dealing with a constant stream of calls to schools and colleges that were causing serious disruption and distress to parents, teachers and pupils,” says "These hoaxes had a significant psychological impact on those affected and resulted in long and complex investigations which required significant resources from the many law enforcement agencies involved in both the UK and United States of America. “I hope this will serve as notice to anyone who considers such acts in the future that no matter how long it takes, or how far we have to travel to gather evidence, we will find you. You may think that technology will protect you but it will also help us track you down.
“I want to thank all those who were affected for their support in bringing Dowling to justice and I particularly want to thank our colleagues in the US for working so diligently with us to put an end to Dowling’s activities.”
CTP SW picked up the investigation after a school in Cornwall and several in Bristol were the first to be targeted. After becoming aware of similar hoaxes taking place in the US around the same time, investigators made contact with the FBI and together they identified Dowling as a suspect.
Following a search of his home and digital devices, it was revealed Dowling owned an eBook which included chapters about making bomb threats to high schools and another providing instructions about how to send armed response officers to someone’s house. He also had a file titled ‘bomb threats by email’.
Senior Investigating Officer, DCI Mike Selbie said: “This was a particularly complex and challenging investigation which crossed international borders and required us to look beyond conventional investigative techniques. “The hoaxes had a profound effect upon the schools and colleges affected, creating a culture of anxiety and fear amongst the pupils. It was therefore vitally important we brought those responsible to justice, irrespective of the length of time it took. “Dowling tried to use computer software to hide both his identity and the sheer scale of his offending, but with the assistance of the FBI and a number of US law enforcement agencies we were able to build our case against him.
“Such was the weight of evidence, Dowling had little choice but to admit to causing chaos and distress to his victims worldwide.”
An FBI spokeswoman added: "The FBI is grateful to have had the opportunity to work with our international law enforcement partners in the United Kingdom on this case. Although these bomb threats were determined to be hoaxes, no threat is taken lightly.
“Each incident is treated as a real event, which drains law enforcement resources that could be utilized for real investigations and emergency response matters, not to mention the unnecessary pain it causes the victim targets.
“This case demonstrates just how crucial international cooperation and coordination is today as crimes such as this, using technology to help inflict fear and anxiety upon others, are truly borderless. The FBI shares this commitment to justice and keeping our citizens safe through these valuable foreign partnerships and look forward to working together again in the future.”
Deputy Assistant Commissioner Dean Haydon, senior national co-ordinator for the UK's counter terrorism policing, said the threats would have caused "psychological damage" to younger children.
"Some of these locations evacuated ... we're talking about primary schools, secondary schools and colleges," he told the PA news agency.
"Particularly young children, teachers and the staff that work at those locations, if you can imagine the effect it's had on those individuals, it's quite a significant psychological effect as well as economic damage and disruption to those locations.
"Of course, you've then got the psychological damage to particularly the younger children."
Mr Haydon said the majority of threats were made by telephone, with Dowling using technology to disguise his voice.
His threats focused on Devon, Cornwall, London, West Midlands and West Yorkshire, Mr Haydon added.
"As you can imagine, the disruption to those various locations was quite significant," he said.
Rachael Scott, head of the Crown Prosecution Service South West complex casework unit, said the key piece of evidence was the discovery of a computer from Dowling's home.
"When police executed a warrant at his address in October 2017 they recovered a hard drive from his bedroom which basically confirmed that he was 'Janka', this person responsible on the internet for committing these offences," she told PA.
"It confirmed everything the police had been trying to ascertain as to who this mystery person was on the internet who was committing these offences.
"Finding all this information on his home computer actually was the key bit, the crucial bit of evidence to ensure that we had sufficient evidence in order to properly prosecute him so the CPS could make the decision to put him before the court for these offences."
