
# Rangoli Chandel takes a dig at Karan Johar's period drama 'Takht'

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:46:35+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/rangoli-chandel-takes-a-dig-at-karan-johars-period-drama-takht/articleshow/71886575.cms)

The Ranaut sisters are known for their edgy statements. Kangana and her sister Rangoli never shy away from calling spade a spade and that is something which makes them controversy's favourite kids. Kangana's elder sister Rangoli is often caught up in a controversy for speaking up her mind through social media. The lady is very much active on her micro-blogging site and often exchanges her thoughts and ideas with other users.
Of late, while conversing with a few bunch of social media users who were talking about calling Rama a myth and making some derogatory comments on the epic Ramayana. While conversing, Rangoli took a chance to take a dig at Karan Johar's upcoming period drama, 'Takht' which is based on Mughal era and will show the story of Shahjehan’s son Aurangzeb and Dara Shikoh. Through her tweet she expressed how KJo will tweak the period film to add more masala and will play with facts of history.
Teasing Karan Johar, Rangoli wrote, "And now not surprisingly our dear Karan Johar is making a film on this cruel bloodline, he will depict Aurangzeb cruelty through his abs and sexual relationships 🙏." She further went on to suggest that authorities must ask for scripts first before the filmmakers could start working on it. "These dumb filmmakers need to be stopped from sexual depiction of historic characters, before they start their crying drama and claim that democracy is dead and bring international shame to the nation, I request authorities to ask them to submit their scripts 🙏."
This is not for the first time Rangoli has taken a jibe at KJo, but she had earlier indulged in some war of words with the filmmaker through her tweets. Moreover, 'Takht' cast includes some big names from the industry like Anil Kapoor, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Ranveer Singh, Alia Bhatt, Vicky Kaushal, Bhumi Pednekar and Janhvi Kapoor. The film, which is based on the fight to the finish for the Mughal throne, is slated to hit the screens in 2020. If reports are anything to go by, Ranveer will be essaying the role of Dara Shikoh, the eldest son of Shahjahan, while Vicky will play his younger brother Aurangzeb. Kareena will be seen playing Shahjahan's daughter Jahanara Begum, Alia will play Ranveer's wife Begum Nadira Banu, while the role of Aurangzeb’s wife Dilras Banu Begum will reportedly be played by Bhumi Pednekar. Janhvi Kapoor is expected to be seen as a slave girl in the epic and last but not the least Anil Kapoor plays Shahjahan in the film.
