
# Amsterdam named the world's most tourist-friendly city

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:04:37+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/europe/amsterdam-named-worlds-most-tourist-20826821)

Amsterdam is the world's most tourist-friendly city according to a new survey.
The Dutch capital has topped a list of tourist hotspots, impressing across a host of factors including how much accommodation is on offer and the overall happiness of those in the destination.
The research, conducted by Authentic Vacations, analysed 10 major cities and looked at factors including tourist to local ratios, airports close to the city, the quality of the local airport, overall happiness of the destination, English proficiency, how much accommodation is available, and safety ratings.
Amsterdam can make for a brilliant city break. For a start, there are heaps of brilliant things to see and do in the day whether you want to explore the museums or take a leisurely stroll along the canals.
When the sun sets, the city's bustling bars, clubs and restaurants come to life - check out our round-up of Amsterdam's best bars for a taste of what's on offer.
 
It can also be quite a budget-friendly break - there are plenty of cheap hotels to be found - and it's also been named one of Europe's cheapest winter city breaks .
There have been some efforts to combat overtourism in the city, for example by banning beer bikes and banning guided tours of the Red Light District.
However there is a generally friendly atmosphere towards tourists - and it could be to do with the fact that the city also boasts some of the happiest locals in the world, according to the research.
 
Second place on the list went to Vienna, which offers up some storybook-worthy streets and landmarks (the Opera house is a particular highlight) while Dubai took the third spot.
Never been before? Check out our Dubai city guide and round-up of the best cheap hotels to get you started.
You can also see the full list of the world's top 10 most tourist-friendly cities below...
