
# Chevron's profit falls due to weaker oil and gas prices

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:45:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/business/chevron-s-profit-falls-due-to-weaker-oil-and-gas-prices-12055776)

Chevron Corp reported a 36per cent drop in third-quarter profit on Friday as the oil major was hit by lower oil and gas prices due to record shale oil output in North America and a slowing global economy.
HOUSTON: Chevron Corp reported a 36per cent drop in third-quarter profit on Friday, hit by lower oil and gas prices and refining margins, and warned higher costs would affect results in its current quarter, sending shares lower.
Results mirrored weaker earnings at BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell, which indicated they might delay dividend increases or a buyback program due to low prices. Exxon Mobil earlier on Friday reported its profits fell by nearly half from a year ago, citing lower oil and gas prices.
"Lower crude oil and natural gas prices more than offset" production increases, Chevron Chief Executive Mike Wirth said in a statement.
Chevron's profit fell to US$2.58 billion, or US$1.36 per share, in the quarter, from US$4.05 billion, or US$2.11 per share, a year earlier. Excluding one-time charges and foreign currency gains, the company said it earned US$1.55 per share, exceeding the US$1.45 per share expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv IBES.
"This was a solid quarter for the company," said Jennifer Rowland, an analyst with Edward Jones, with cash from operations exceeding spending on major projects and shareholder dividends. "We expect robust cash returns to shareholders to continue, she added.
However, the company offered a tepid outlook for the fourth quarter, saying it expected full-year oil and gas production to fall in the middle of its forecast increase of 4per cent to 7per cent.
It also warned that overall costs for a giant oil project in Kazakhstan would rise 25per cent to US$45.2 billion. Exxon, a partner in the field, on Friday also said costs of the Tengiz project would affect its future spending.
Chevron shares were down less than 1per cent on Friday morning.
The second-largest U.S. oil company also said it expects additional costs in the fourth quarter from "high" refinery maintenance and from a US$430 million tax payment.
Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production grew about 3per cent to 3.03 million barrels per day, but average sales prices fell both in the United States and internationally.
Production in the Permian Basin, the top U.S. shale field, rose 35per cent from the same period a year ago to 455,000 barrels of oil and gas daily, but its average U.S. liquids price was US$47 per barrel, down from US$62 a year ago.
(Reporting by Jennifer Hiller in Houston and Shariq Khan in Bengaluru; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Paul Simao)
