
# Visiting New York City For The Holiday? Stay At A Luxe Hotel In SoHo

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adrienne Jordan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adriennejordan/2019/11/01/visiting-new-york-city-for-the-holiday-stay-at-a-luxe-hotel-in-soho/)

If you’re looking to stay downtown in the shopping district of SoHo (not to mention see views of the Hudson River, Statue of Liberty, and Empire State Building from your chamber), then book a stay at The Dominick- a Five Diamond hotel that offers some of the most spacious rooms in the city; a world-class spa; and healthy dining in several venues. The holidays don’t have to be stressful, you can check into The Dominick and sleep and dine like a king or queen:

        Get A Peaceful Sleep
      
Yes, New York City has a reputation for having small hotel rooms, where you can practically reach both arms out and touch two walls. However, this is far from the case at The Dominick, where the 391 residential-style guest rooms are spacious with king guestrooms starting at 422 square feet and suites that span from 682 to over 2,000 square feet.
You will bathe in luxury with the accommodations designed by the Rockwell Group and custom furnishings by Fendi Casa. If you book a suite, get pampered in the standalone rain shower, or choose to relax in the soaking tub while taking in the settings of Turkish Marmara stone on the walls.

        Eat With a View
      
Sometimes you just don’t want to leave the room and the worst feeling is not being able to order food from the comfort of your suite. Thankfully, at The Dominick, in-room dining is open 24 hours a day and you can choose from a wide range of options, including gluten-free and vegetarian dishes, smoothies, cold pressed juices, crab cakes, salads, and burgers.
You’ve pulled yourself out of the comfy bed and decided to venture to real life: head to the on-site Mezzanine, a restaurant open for breakfast, lunch and dinner that offers tasty cuisine in a sultry environment. Some of the specialties to order if you go for dinner include spaghetti pomodoro, Kansas striploin of beef, or the Atlantic salmon. Don’t forget to toast it up with some red or white wine by the glass, or even a flute of bubbly. Running late? Café Mezz overlooks the sweeping lobby and is available for a quick bite-take the organic chicken club, mushroom sandwich, kale salad- or just request a much-needed coffee.

        Get Fit and Indulge
      
After burning a few hundred calories in the state-of-the-art fitness center (yes, there are Peloton and Mirror Fitness features), sign up for a spa treatment. You might be the first of your friends to experience this: in the spring of 2019, The Dominick opened the first BABOR Signature Spa in North America. BABOR is a skin care brand based in Germany, and the exclusive features of the 11,000 square-foot spa include one of the only luxury hammams in the city; chromatherapy experience showers, steam and sauna facilities, and a co-ed relaxation lounge.
One of the best parts of relaxing before a treatment are the beverages: try one of the detoxing teas from Palais des Thés. Also, you must come back and try the Inhalation Salt Chamber that will open this fall, which has many health benefits like accelerating skin cell rejuvenation, reducing stress and sleeping better.
