
# Ernest Ndukwe steps down from Access Bank’s board 

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:30:40+00:00**

Author: **Chidinma Nwagbara**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/06/ernest-ndukwe-steps-down-from-access-banks-board/)

The Board of Directors of Access Bank Plc has notified the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and the general public of the resignation of Ernest Ndukwe as an Independent Non-Executive Director from the bank’s board.
Ndukwe’s resignation is to take effect from March 31, 2020. According to the statement, Ndukwe resigned from the board to enable him focus on other responsibilities.

        “The Board of Directors of Access Bank hereby announces that Ndukwe has indicated his intention not to seek re-election during the bank’s 2020 AGM. Accordingly, he has resigned from the board, effective March 31, 2020, to enable him focus on his current and additional responsibilities.
      

        “Ndukwe has confirmed that he has no disagreement with the board and there are no issues relating to his resignation that needs to be brought to the attention of the bank’s shareholders or the regulatory authorities.
      
“The board is identifying the right candidate to fill the resultant vacancy as soon as possible, and further announcement will be made in this regard, in due course,” the statement read.

        [READ MORE: 
        Massive shakeup in Dangote Flour as key Board members resign, appoints new ones]
      
A look into Ndukwe’s profile: Ernest Ndukwe joined the Board of Access Bank in December 2012 as an Independent Director. He is an Electrical/Electronics Engineer with over three decades of experience in the telecoms industry.
Before he delved into the world of banking, Ndukwe was the Managing Director of General Telecoms between 1989 and 2000 and Executive Vice-Chairman of Nigerian Communications Commission between 2000 and 2010. He previously served on the Presidential Committee on Job creation.
Ndukwe is a graduate of the University of Ife and an alumnus of Lagos Business School. He is also a fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers, Nigerian Institute of Management (FNIM) and Nigerian Academy of Engineering (NAE). He is a faculty member of Lagos Business School where he heads the Centre for infrastructure Policy, Regulation and Advancement (CIPRA).
