
# Chiefs vs Pirates: 10 Storytelling Images From Past Meetings

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:53:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/10-memorable-images-of-previous-soweto-derbies/666511)

In spirit of the Soweto Derby, Soccer Laduma takes a look at 10 storytelling images from previous meetings between Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates.

        What's in the gallery:
      
These are 10 images from recent meetings between the two Soweto giants. One image shows Rulani Mokwena enjoying what seems to be some banter with Ramahlwe Mphahlele and Khama Billiat, possibly reliving their past relationship from their time at Mamelodi Sundowns.
Another image is of Vincent Pule's famous celebration from last season and more celebrations from the Bucs technical team.
Amakhosi however, are not seen celebrating as much, with some throwback images of their losses to their neighbours. 
Click through the gallery to see all the memorable moments. 

        What are the facts:
      
Orlando Pirates have dominated the Soweto Derby for the past four years, having won five times across the Absa Premiership, Nedbank Cup and Telkom Knockout competition, drawn five times in the league and lost just once in a TKO semi-final clash, back in 2015.

        
          Read more: TKO Build-Up: Billiat Vs Lorch, Who Will Light Up The Soweto Derby?
        
      
Which means, in 11 meetings, Chiefs have just won once. And that was via a penatly shoot out.
But which team will be celebrating in November?
Chiefs and Pirates will square off twice this month, once this weekend in the Telkom Knockout quarterfinals and thereafter in an Absa Premiership on November 09.
Can Rulani Mokwena extend Pirates’ unbeaten run over Amakhosi this weekend, or will Ernst Middendorp come to the rescue for Chiefs?
Let us know in the comments section below.
