
# Glenn Maxwell news sent shivers down my spine, reveals Chris Lynn

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:17:14+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/glenn-maxwell-news-sent-shivers-down-my-spine-reveals-chris-lynn?utm_medium=rss)


        Chris Lynn has stated that Glenn Maxwell taking some time off from the game due to mental heatlh problems sent shivers down his spine. This unexpected decision of Maxwell was received by a shocked Lynn when he had left the field after the game between President's XI and Pakistan ended.
      
Glenn Maxwell pulled himself out of the Australian squad ahead of the third T20I against Sri Lanka, owing to dealing with some mental health problems and announced that he will be taking a short time off the game. This news sent shockwaves across Australia and fellow Australian Chris Lynn was baffled by this sudden announcement.
"It sends shivers down my spine when you hear something like this, Glenn's a close mate of mine," said Lynn to ESPNCricinfo.
"When one man goes the whole team feels it but I think the whole of Australia feels it. What he's got to realise is that, as men, we don't speak up enough about it, so I'm really proud that he's really come out and assessed that cricket isn't for him right now," he further added.
Mental health is an important issue which people do not really seem to talk a lot about, fearing that they will be judged by society. But this brave call from Maxwell has been well received by Cricket Australia and he will be given all possible support to recover from this phase. The amount of mental toughness that a cricketer has to show amidst all the pressure is extremely high and something which only fellow cricketers can understand.
"A lot of people think it's a gravy train, play for Australia and get to travel the world but there's a lot of hard work beneath the water that people don't see and the mental toughness that a lot of cricketers have to show is next level," Lynn said.
"It's a good thing for cricket he has spoken up, there are organizations who can help out. I've no doubt his friends and family will be most important right now," he concluded.
