
# Prosecutors: Long Island security company used fake 'Made in USA' labels

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:44:31+00:00**

Author: **WABC**

Original: [ABC7 New York](https://abc7ny.com/feds-li-security-firm-used-fake-usa-labels-sold-to-govt/5678852/)

COMMACK, Long Island (WABC) -- Federal authorities on Thursday arrested seven current and former executives of a security company based on Long Island that are accused of selling equipment to the US government that was actually made in China.
Investigators were searching Aventura Technologies in Commack, while the suspects were arrested at their homes across Suffolk County.
Prosecutors say the company sold surveillance and security equipment to government agencies and private customers that it claimed was "Made in the USA" but was actually made in China, potentially putting those agencies at risk.
In addition to Aventura, the defendants charged in the complaint are:--Jack Cabasso, Aventura's Managing Director and de facto owner and operator--Frances Cabasso, his wife and Aventura's purported owner and Chief Executive Officer--Senior executives Jonathan Lasker, Christine Lavonne Lazarus and Eduard Matulik--Current employee Wayne Marino--Recently retired employee Alan Schwartz.
Federal prosecutors say Jack Cabasso "masterminded a 13-year international fraud conspiracy" and that due to a "lengthy criminal history," he made his wife CEO though she was only in charge on paper and also works part time at a Long Island accounting firm.
That misrepresentation also gave Aventura access to government contracts that were set aside for women-owned small businesses, prosecutors said, a category that is legally defined to include only those businesses owned by women where management and daily operations are also controlled by one or more women.
The company had boasted "all of our products are assembled on Long Island" and was awarded tax breaks from the Suffolk County Industrial Development Agency.
Authorities say that over the last decade, Aventura Technologies has sold nearly $88 million of security equipment to US government agencies.

        WATCH: Authorities announce business fraud arrests on Long Island
      
