
# Things to do today in Bengaluru

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/things-to-do-today-in-bengaluru/articleshow/71871901.cms)

Cosplayers, unite The latest edition of Bangalore Comic Con is right around the corner, and there couldn’t be a better time to get your last-minute fix on all things cosplay! This beginner-level workshop will be led by champion cosplayer Anshul Gupta. His cosplay armour pieces showcase his proficiency in the method of foam-smithing. WHERE: The Studio by LVDS, Cooke Town WHEN: 10am-5pm, November 3 FEE: `1,500, insider.in Poems on demand Poets write for themselves, to express what they are feeling in the moment. But a unique event called The Poetry Vendors is asking them to write poems for you; to express what you are feeling in the moment, not just in English, but Kannada, Hindi and other languages too. The line-up of poets include Aparajeeta, Chandrama, Chandrakant, Richa, Trupthi and Lathashree. Pay them as you like. WHERE: Katte, HAL 2nd Stage, Indiranagar WHEN: 11am-1pm, November 3 ENTRY: `100, insider.in An evening of Carnatic ragas From Kabir to Kuvempu, Meera to Akka, Amir Khusrao to Shishunala Sharif, Tagore to DVG, Surdas to Bendre, singer, actor, composer and filmmaker MD Pallavi will weave an evening of music and poetry from across the country. The concert will also feature the brilliant, young violinist Mysore Karthik, who is the son of the much-revered Mysore Nagaraj of the Mysore Nagaraj-Manjunath duo. WHERE: The Courtyard, 105 KH Double Road, Shanti Nagar WHEN: 7pm, November 3 ENTRY: `250, insider.in Music and lyrics Tonight, Kavish Seth will take you into the mind space of the artist, engaging you with his couplets, poems and stories. Seth is an independent singer/songwriter/poet, who composes primarily in Hindustani, English and now even Russian. He has also invented Noori, a musical instrument that is an evolution from guitar, rabab, and sarod. WHERE: Atta Galatta, KHB Colony, 5th Block, Koramangala WHEN: 6pm-8pm, November 3 ENTRY: `300, eventshigh.com CALL: 41600677 Look up Do you like sky watching? Then the ‘Know Your Stars’ event is just for you. Today, this planetarium will simulate the Bengaluru sky in their sky theater and describe prominent celestial objects through a lecture. Needless to say, this is subject to weather conditions. WHERE: Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium, High Grounds WHEN: 6.30pm, November 3 ENTRY: `30 CALL: 22379725 Speak your mind Let this Sunday be about meaningful conversations, unfettered camaraderie, great art and music. Thanks to the second edition of We The Women, a one-day festival created and curated by veteran journalist Barkha Dutt. This year, the event will also shine the light on one year of the #MeToo movement. Some of the key sessions include: Actor Sara Ali Khan will talk about the generational shifts in conversation among women in the film industry; actress Sai Pallavi and model Varshita Thatavarthi will speak on the obsession with fair skin; former foreign secretary Nirupama Rao will explain why she wants us to make music, not war, etc. WHERE: The Lalit Ashok, Kumarakrupa Road, High Grounds WHEN: 9am onwards, November 3 To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
