
# Is the 'toxic' atmosphere over Brexit pushing more MPs to quit?

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:54:17+00:00**

Author: **Alasdair Sandford &amp; Chris Harris **

Original: [euronews](https://www.euronews.com/2019/11/03/uk-election-2019-is-the-toxic-atmosphere-over-brexit-pushing-more-mps-to-quit)


        This article originally published on November 3 has been updated.
      
A quarter of the dozens of British lawmakers standing down before December’s general election have complained explicitly in resignation statements about a toxic atmosphere in parliament, or in politics generally.
Two MPs – both women – specifically cited the abuse and threats they have endured as a principal reason for deciding not to seek re-election.
Many others have clashed with or left the party they stood for, in come cases as recently as 2017, or have denounced a climate of intolerance. It is clear that intimidation including death threats, divisions over Brexit, party splits and a sense that politics is "broken" have all emerged as key characteristics of the last parliamentary session.
By Thursday (November 7), more than 70 politicians had announced they would be standing down – more than 10% of the total number of MPs.
Of those, more than 20 are women. This is broadly in line with the proportion of women in parliament as a whole (32%). However, unlike many of their male counterparts retiring after long careers, several women are calling time after relatively short periods as MPs.
Among the latest to declare she is quitting, Conservative MP Margot James, cited Brexit and opposition to her stance from within her constituency association.
She has since been followed by some of Britain's most prominent politicians – including the last Conservative chancellor (finance minister) Philip Hammond, and the opposition Labour Party's deputy leader, Tom Watson. Both had strongly contested the directions their parties were taking.
Time spent as an MP by those quitting varies widely: Scottish Tory Bill Grant will only have served two years in parliament, having promised to complete only one term, whereas the Father of the House Kenneth Clarke has clocked up almost half a century in the House of Commons.
Euronews has examined the reasons given by those who have decided to call it a day.

        The above chart is based on information available up to Sunday November 3.
      
The two women to link abuse most directly to their decision to stand down were both elected as Conservatives in 2015.
Heidi Allen, who left the Tories earlier this year and is now a Liberal Democrat, announced this week that she was leaving parliament.
“I am exhausted by the invasion into my privacy and the nastiness and intimidation that has become commonplace,” she wrote in a letter to her constituents.
“Nobody in any job should have to put up with threats, aggressive emails, being shouted at in the street, sworn at on social media, nor have to install panic alarms at home.
“Of course public scrutiny is to be expected, but lines are all too regularly crossed and the effect is utterly dehumanising.”
Tory MP Dame Caroline Spelman has taken a high-profile stance against a no-deal Brexit. Fearful for thousands of jobs in their constituencies, earlier this year she joined forces with Labour’s Jack Dromey to try to force a delay to the UK’s exit from the EU if there was no agreement.
“Myself, my family and my staff, have borne an enormous brunt of abuse and I think quite frankly we’ve had enough,” she said when announcing her decision to stand down in September.
“The anonymity of the internet allows people to say things which if they said it to your face or they wrote it down, would not be legal.”
