
# Mum's outrage after cafe employee leaves offensive detail on her receipt

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:39:35+00:00**

Author: **Bradley Jolly, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/bradley-jolly/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/mums-outrage-after-cafe-employee-20819925)

A mum was outraged after a cafe employee branded her two-year-old child "terrifying" in a nasty note on their receipt.   
Kimberly Sze slammed Coffee Supreme in Christchurch, New Zealand, as "disrespectful" after the worker wrote “Fam w [sic] terrifying kid” on the receipt on Friday.
“My daughter is nothing but polite and friendly and we’ve never left a mess,” the parent wrote on Facebook .
“She’s never been a terror, never had a meltdown, never caused any problems and the same people working today always comment on how cute and sweet she is, so what the actual f? [sic]”
Now Kimberly vows never to return to the establishment, of which she previously was a regular.
And other parents shared her disgust online.
 
“Not only is that rude to but totally inappropriate way of identifying customers [sic],” someone posted on Facebook.
Despite Kimberly's disappointment with the front-of-house staff's handling of the situation, she said Supreme Coffee's management had "apologised profusely" after she contacted them.
"Supreme has been really great in their response and swift in action to address the issue," the mum told Daily Mail Australia .
The mum was given a full refund.
In a Facebook post on Sunday, the franchise said: "We made a mistake over the weekend and offended a customer - a young family out trying to enjoy a moment of normality.
"We are incredibly sorry and wish to apologise publically.
"If you’re the parent of young children, we know how it is and would like to shout you and your wee one a coffee and fluffy at Customs or Coffee Supreme Welles Street - they’re on us from tomorrow through to the end of Sunday. We love fluffies too."
