
# Thug bites off Paisley shop worker's ear in vicious attack

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:29:45+00:00**

Author: **Andrea Lambrou, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/andrea-lambrou/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/animal-bites-paisley-shop-workers-20814114)

A shop worker has been scarred for life after a vicious thug bit part of his ear off for refusing to sell him booze.
The 38-year-old was set upon by a gang of youths outside Corky’s newsagent, in Paisley’s Broomlands Street.
The gang were under-age and asked a customer to buy a bottle of vodka for them.
It is understood the shop assistant will now need reconstructive surgery after being permanently disfigured in the vile attack, which was caught on CCTV.

        PAISLEY DAILY EXPRESS: Live news as it happens    
      
Horrified shop owner Fauzia Mohammed witnessed the attack and told the Express she felt “physically sick” when she saw her employee’s gruesome injury.
She revealed that her 20-year-old daughter found the torn-off tip of the ear the next morning after cops struggled to locate it in the dark.
“The police couldn’t find the top of the ear. My daughter found it curled up in the street outside the shop the next morning and handed it to CID.
“I’m so shocked by it and feel so sorry for him.
“I was worried they were going to hit me.
“It was frightening for the customers. I shouted at them to stop but they wouldn’t listen. He was in a lot of pain and looked so pale. There was a lot of blood.”

        READ MORE NEWS:
      
In the sickening video, which has been viewed by the Express, a male youth repeatedly punches the shop assistant as he leaves the shop before a female joins in the attack.
The fight then goes out of shot and when the group appear back in the frame the shop worker is holding his left ear and is covered in blood.
Along with a third male, both yobs attack him again as he leans on a car trying to hold himself up.
They eventually walk off in the direction of Ferguslie but, as the victim makes it back inside the busy shop, the girl returns and spits in his face.
The victim was rushed to the Royal Alexandra Hospital for treatment.
He was also bitten to the top of his right arm and suffered bruising.
Saturday’s attack happened around 8.40pm.

        READ MORE NEWS:
      

         
      
The male involved is described as 5ft 7ins tall and was wearing dark clothes and possibly gloves.
The female has shoulder-length dark hair and was also wearing dark clothing.
Detective Inspector Bob Bowie, from Paisley CID, said: “This was a vicious and unprovoked attack which has left the victim scarred for life.
“We are very keen to trace the male who was asked to go into the shop on behalf of the group just prior to the assault taking place.
“The shop and street would have been busy at the time and we would like to speak to anyone in the area who has not already spoken with officers.”
Anyone with information should call police on 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.
