
# Labour could ban private jets to stop billionaires 'trashing the climate'

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:07:15+00:00**

Author: **Pippa Crerar, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/pippa-crerar/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/labour-could-ban-private-jets-20811571)

Labour will consider a ban on private jets in just six years’ time to help cut carbon emissions if it wins the election.
Shadow transport secretary Andy McDonald accused billionaires of being allowed to “trash the climate” at the expense of the less well off.
It came as a think tank report revealed that private jets pump out carbon emissions the equivalent of 450,000 cars each year.
Labour would consult with the industry about the date to phase out fossil-fuel private planes - and support the expansion of electric aircraft.
 
Mr McDonald said: “Why is the Government enabling billionaires to trash the climate when it’s the rest of us who will suffer the consequences?
“Climate targets cannot be met without curbing pollution from air travel, and a passenger on a private jet produces ten times the emissions of someone on a regular flight. This simply cannot be ignored.
“In just a few years’ time it will be possible for these journeys to be made by electric aircraft – so long as government puts in place the right incentives.
“Labour will examine these proposals closely and consult with industry on the introduction of a phase out date for the use of fossil fuel private jets.”
 
The Common Wealth report found that 128,000 flights between UK and EU airports were made using private jets in 2018, representing 6 per cent of all UK air traffic. A further 14,000 trips were made to destinations outside Europe.
A private flight from London to New York was equivalent to driving a typical UK car non-stop for four and a half years, it said.
Industry estimates suggest that private jets are empty on about 40 per cent of journeys, as they are moved to be in place for the super-rich and corporate customers who use them.
Almost half of all private jet traffic in Britain passes through five airports around London, given its status as the home to the most billionaires in Europe and one of the world’s biggest financial centres.
Labour has made green issues a central plank of its campaign ahead of the December 12 election.
