
# 7 times birthday girl Aishwarya Rai Bachchan twinned with daughter Aaradhya!

Published at: **2019-11-01T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/7-times-birthday-girl-aishwarya-rai-bachchan-twinned-with-daughter-aaradhya/articleshow/71821898.cms)

Aishwarya Rai Bachchan is undoubtedly one of the most beautiful actresses in Bollywood. The star is celebrating her 46th birthday today and her fans can't keep calm. Several fan clubs on social media dedicated to the 'Ae Dil Hai Mushkil' actress have shared some unseen pictures of the diva and we are all hearts!
Apart from a talented actress and a loving wife, Aishwarya is a doting mother to her daughter Aaradhya. Aaradhya is often seen accompanying her mother on most of the occasions. We scrolled her Instagram profile closely and stumbled upon something that might interest you. The star often shares photos of her little princess and her admirers can't stop praising this mother-daughter duo. Every often, they twin in similar colour outfits and it is too adorable for words! Aaradhya looks cute as a button as she twins and we can already see a fashionista in making like her Aishwarya.
We totally love how they shell out major mother-daughter goals with their fashion outings, tell us how did you like it in the comment section below.

        Picture Courtesy: Aishwarya Rai Bachchan Instagram, Aaradhya Bachchan's fan club on Instagram
      
