
# Brexit: Boris Johnson and Michael Gove categorically rule out delaying end date

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:47:43+00:00**

Author: **Dan Bloom, https://www.facebook.com/mirrordanbloom**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/brexit-boris-johnson-michael-gove-20813843)

Boris Johnson's team have categorically ruled out delaying the final date of Brexit beyond 31 December 2020.
Downing Street ruled out any extension to the 11-month transition period - the period for us to get an EU trade deal if Parliament agrees to leave by the end of January.
And today no-deal Brexit planning chief Michael Gove also ruled out an extension, which is a clear option in the Brexit deal with the EU.
The comments will prompt fresh fears Boris Johnson would crash Britain out of the EU in a "trapdoor to no-deal" on New Year's Day 2021.
Critics and many experts believe 11 months is not nearly long enough to secure a trade deal with the EU, whose negotiations with Canada took seven years. That leaves no-deal unless we extend.
Yet voters may also question whether Boris Johnson, who is taking a hardline approach to keep the Brexit Party from taking Tory seats in the election, is telling the truth.
 
 
The Prime Minister repeatedly claimed he would not ask for a delay to Brexit beyond 31 October before he then asked for one, however grudgingly.
A Downing Street spokesman said yesterday: "The Government will not be extending the  transition period.
"The Prime Minister believes that we will have a good trade deal agreed with the EU by December 2020," the spokesman said.
"The Brexit process has been going on for long enough."
Today Mr Gove was asked to confirm the position by BBC Radio 4's Today programme.
Asked if the transition period could be extended he said: "Uh, no."
Asked "definitely not?" he replied: "Absolutely."
He said that, while preparations would continue for a no-deal Brexit, he was confident they could get a new free trade agreement with the EU by that date.
"We will ensure that we will have a proper free trade agreement with the European Union," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.
"It is always the case that we need to prepare for every eventuality, but I am confident that we will be able to get a good relationship with the EU at the end of this period.
"It will be the case when - if we can get a majority government - we move into the close talks we have with them, there will be a strong interest from the Irish Government, from the French government, and from our other partners in making sure that we move to a new relationship."
