
# EICMA 2019: Hero Xtreme 1.R Concept motorcycle showcased

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:25:02+00:00**

Author: **Aditya Jadhav  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/eicma-2019-hero-xtreme-1-r-concept-motorcycle-showcased/)

Xtreme 1.R Concept motorcycle by Hero Motorcorp has been showcased at the ongoing EICMA 2019. The concept's design takes inspiration from an arrow hence the motorcycle boasts sleek and sharp styling lines. The headlamp is an all-LED unit. The fuel tank gets beefy tank panels that run all the way to the rear blending in the rear cowl. The styling for the tail is upswept and pointy - resembling an arrow. Also, the rear cowl has an inscription on it that translates to 'Imagined in India'. The concept's design and imagination could be used in bits and pieces to span the next-generation of Xtreme motorcycles.
The concept is based on Hero's X platform that also underpins the Xtreme 200S, Xtreme 200R, XPulse 200T and the XPulse 200. The engine in the concept motorcycle is an air-cooled unit, and the pictures also show that the oil-cooler is mounted offset hinting that Hero could bring in a newly engineered motor when the concept turns to a production motorcycle.
The Xtreme 1.R uses upside-down forks with radially-mounted brakes in the front. The rear gets a monoshock for suspension duty. Hero Motocorp says, the concept is focussed agility and responsive handling, "the motorcycle carves out corners with pinpoint accuracy – be it on urban roads or while negotiating fast corners." The exhaust on the concept motorcycle has a short end-can from an Arrow - in regard to stay in line with its 'Arrow' inspired design language.
Unveiling the Hero MotoCorp pavilion, Malo Le Masson, Head of Global Product Planning, Hero MotoCorp, said "We are continuously innovating to enhance the customers' riding experience. The Xtreme 1.R concept offers a glimpse into the future of the Xtreme styling DNA, a concept packed with fun and bold styling."

        EICMA 2019: Hero Xpulse 200 with Rally kit unveiled
      

        EICMA 2019: KTM 390 Adventure showcased, India launch this year?
      

        EICMA 2019: 2020 Suzuki V-Strom 1050 and 1050 XT revealed
      

        EICMA 2019: BMW F 900 R and F 900 XR unveiled
      

        EICMA 2019: All-new, 2020 Honda CBR1000RR-R Fireblade breaks cover
      
