
# Amakhosi’s Big Derby Decision…

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/kaizer-chiefs-thinking-ahead-to-orlando-pirates/666743)

Another Soweto Derby is just around the corner, and Kaizer Chiefs’ Ernst Middendorp has a big decision to make before facing Orlando Pirates in a few days’ time.

        Read: Chiefs To Assess Billiat Situation?
      
Chiefs are in fine form at present with six wins in a row (albeit two via a penalty shootout), and are currently five points clear at the top of the Absa Premiership after losing just once this season.
The Glamour Boys beat both Mamelodi Sundowns and their bitter rivals, Pirates, in their last two games to maintain their place on top of the league and secure a spot in the Telkom Knockout semifinals, but they will be aware of the fact that Bidvest Wits – currently in third – can leapfrog them if they win their games in hand.
With that in mind, Ernst Middendorp will be wary of putting too much emphasis on the clash with Pirates on Saturday given that there’s a game to be played against Chippa United on Wednesday night, though he may be tempted to plan ahead with regards to his team selection.
Chippa are rock bottom of the table having picked up just four points from their nine games to date, and Chiefs find themselves in a predicament with regards to Willard Katsande and Daniel Akpeyi, both of whom will miss the clash with Bucs if they’re on the receiving end of a booking against the Chilli Boys.

        Read: Benni Looking For Next Step Overseas?
      
The experienced duo have been regular starters for the Glamour Boys of late as they continue their impressive form, but the German coach may feel that they are more required in the weekend’s game than against Wednesday’s struggling opponent.

        Should Middendorp start Katsande and Akpeyi v Chippa tomorrow night?
      
