
# Pilot Gets Banned From Flying After Photo Of Lady In Cockpit Goes Viral

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Izza Sofia**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407219/Pilot-Gets-Banned-From-Flying-After-Photo-Of-Lady-In-Cockpit-Goes-Viral/)

Image via Shutterstock A pilot in China is permanently banned from flying after a photo showing a woman he let into the cockpit went viral. The image, which reveals a female passenger lounging in the captain’s seat and posing with a peace sign, came with the caption, “Thanks to the captain. So happy,” and was repeatedly shared on Chinese social media platform Weibo. The image was reportedly taken on 4 January on an Air Guilin flight. The widely-shared snap has resulted in the airline issuing a flying ban to the anonymous pilot who had approved of her entry into the cockpit. According to the airline, the pilot violated air safety regulations of the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) for bringing an “unauthorized person” into the cockpit. Advertisement Advertisement Aviation experts told Chinese newspaper Global Times that the photo must have been taken mid-flight from Guilin to Yangzhou. Other crew members believed to have been involved in the situation have also been suspended, and investigations are still ongoing. In a statement, Air Guilin said that “passengers’ safety is a top priority,” and the company takes a “zero-tolerance approach” towards any “inappropriate and unprofessional behavior” that might be detrimental to the safety of its flights.
