
# 'Not possible against Aston Villa' - what Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has said ahead of the game

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Kemble**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/not-possible-against-aston-villa-17186648)

Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp is unsure of whether to risk midfielder Fabinho against Aston Villa this weekend.
The Brazilian midfielder is just one yellow card away from receiving a suspension which would rule him out of a top-of-the-table clash with Manchester City next week.
And that could force Klopp to leave him out against Villa this weekend, ensuring he will be available for that key clash at Anfield a week on Sunday.
"I don't know yet," Klopp replied when asked if he will be risking Fabinho.
"We have to see. I know it (the potential suspension), of course. What we do with that I don't know."
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Asked what he would tell Fabinho should he play, Klopp joked: "No challenges at all!"
He continued: "That's not possible against Aston Villa, playing without challenges, especially in that position. You cannot ask for this.
"The player knows it, I know it. Is there any game where you think that's a good game to get a fifth yellow card?
"Maybe other teams are pretty smart in that and take them, I don't know, I never did it.
"We have to deal with. Maybe he has to deal with it on the pitch or I have to deal with it with the line-up. We didn't make a final decision yet, so we will see."
 
Klopp also provided injury updates on Naby Keita and Joel Matip.
"Naby I don't know yet, we will see," added the Liverpool boss.
"Joel is not available for the next few weeks.
"What could that mean? A couple is two, right? So a few is more than three."
