
# Rangers are overconfident and Celtic are unbeatable at Hampden - Hotline

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:18:41+00:00**

Author: **Sports Hotline, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/sports-hotline/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/rangers-overconfident-because-celtic-unbeatable-20809122)

The old saying ‘west is best and east is least’ might be a cheap quip but in terms of Betfred Cup semi finals it was bang on the money.
Celtic ’s hammering of Hibs and Rangers’ humbling of Hearts proved a gulf between the Glasgow and Edinburgh sides almost as wide as the M8 stretch that separates the cities.
A first Old Firm cup final in eight years gave fans of both the green and blue sides of Glasgow a reason to hit the Hotline … as if they need one.
And the banter was flowing. First up, Alan McGaw, Alloa , who said: “The Hampden hoodoo is over. Rangers were outstanding although I can’t believe how bad Hearts were. But Alfredo Morelos was magnificent again and what a change in the past year.
“I thought when Daniel Candeias left he would go into his shell but he is now talking with his feet and not his mouth.
“The final will have a big say in the destination of the league title as it will give one club a huge momentum boost."
Bob Shearer emailed: “Celtic fans go on about how Morelos hasn't scored against the big teams. Well 20 goals at the start of November, would they want him in their squad? Answers on a postcard please.”
Alfie Mullin, London , responded to a call from last week saying: “Adam Ryan from Croy, says I must be at my wits end and maybe Celtic should give me some shifts polishing silverware.
“Why would I want to go there when the silverware is coming to Ibrox?”
But Lewis Doyle, Limerick , said: “Here we go it’s started - ‘the biggest cup final since 1923’. And here’s me thinking that Rangers don't exist now.
“The new Rangers players will be saying 'bring on Celtic' and at the end of the match Broony will say what he always says: 'We do our talking on the pitch'.
“Yes Hearts got thumped but most of their first team squad was in the stand injured. So word of warning to those blinded by lack of silverware keep schtum.”
Pat Thompson, Parkhead , was full of praise for the rampant Hoops: “To win 30 cup ties in a row is sensational, I couldn’t believe it.
“But it seems any side that wants to win a cup will have to beat Celtic before the semi-final stage as they look unbeatable at Hampden.
“They know that pitch inside out and another win is coming next month.
“Rangers are too confident and Celtic have the better players.”
Kenny Wilson from Moffat agreed, saying: “It’s good to hear the Rangers fans saying bring on Celtic, we are better in every area of the pitch. I seem to remember hearing that before the game at Ibrox earlier in the season.”
And James Kennedy, Kilsyth , emailed: “So Morelos will not be sold in January. Rangers are skint and living on borrowed time and money. Will they stop paying their bills again? I sense another Valentines Day massacre on the way.”
While there was a glow around Glasgow it was very much doom and gloom in Gorgie and Leith.
Stephen Johnstone, Ardentinny, said: “There’s more chance of Nanny MacPhee saving Hearts than Austin MacPhee. The Jambos were garbage and there’s more than Craig Levein that should be leaving Tynecastle.
“They should put a for sale sign outside the stadium and every player should be cleared out. It’s a shambles.”
Frank McFerran, Carrickfergus , emailed: “As a Rangers fan I’m glad to see my team doing well and it’s about time. But I can’t understand what has happened to the two Edinburgh teams. They were always a threat before, not now.”
Away from the semi-finals and Jim McClean from Rothesay is not enamoured with Killie boss Angelo Alessio after the Ayrshiremen’s rise came to an abrupt halt against Motherwell.
He said: “I wonder what’s on Angelo Alessio’s mind, two nothing down after 27 mins and still plays one up front for the remainder of the game, clueless. Just go Angelo. I know we had injuries but have a go and don’t use it as excuses, it could have been six or seven except our goalkeeper was excellent.”
And last word to Izzy Currie, Caithness , who wasn’t impressed by England’s lack of respect after losing the Rugby World Cup Final to South Africa. She said: “I saw some of the England players didn’t put their runners-up medals round their necks or even worse took them straight back off.
“It was disrespectful and if I’d been there then I would have booted their backsides.”
Hear hear Izzy.
