
# ‘If the president’s in such great shape, why is he not cooperating?': Fox & Friends hosts quarrel over impeachment

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:51:00+00:00**

Author: **Madison Dibble**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/if-the-presidents-in-such-great-shape-why-is-he-not-cooperating-fox-friends-hosts-quarrel-over-impeachment)

Fox & Friends hosts Pete Hegseth and Ed Henry clashed over President Trump’s decision to not cooperate with House Democrats in their impeachment proceedings.
Trump has called the impeachment effort a witch hunt and has refused to participate, ordering members of his administration to do the same. The White House has also called the process "highly partisan and unconstitutional," further signaling the president's unwillingness to cooperate.
During their show on Sunday morning, Hegseth and Henry argued over the president’s strategy with impeachment. Henry questioned why Trump wouldn’t be as transparent as possible if he has nothing to hide.
“If the president’s in such great shape, why is he not cooperating with the investigation?” Henry asked. “If there’s no ‘there’ there, why not just turn it over?”
Hegseth defended the president’s decisions, claiming that any effort to work with Democrats validates the “sham” impeachment.
“Because if an investigation is a sham, you validate it by participating,” Hegseth said.
Henry challenged Hegseth’s position, saying, “If the facts are on his side, cooperate.”
“If you believe it’s a sham from the beginning, then cooperating [with] it is validating it,” Hegseth continued. He suggested Trump “take it to the voters” and let them decide if he should be in office.
