
# State Department says Iran still biggest state sponsor of terror, spends $1B per year on proxies

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:19:16+00:00**

Author: **Melissa Leon**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/state-department-iran-terrorism-isis-al-qaeda)

Iran is still the "world’s worst state sponsor of terrorism" and Al Qaeda wants to reestablish itself as the "vanguard of the global jihadist movement," the State Department said in its Country Reports on Terrorism 2018, which was released Friday.
The Tehran regime has spent nearly $1 billion per year to support terror groups "that serve as its proxies and expand its malign influence across the globe," the State Department said. Those groups include Hezbollah, Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
Iran has also plotted its own terrorist acts around the globe, most notably in Belgium, France, and Germany, according to the department.
Al Qaeda continued to fester in 2018, as well.
"Despite our sustained efforts since Sept. 11, 2001, and the group’s leadership losses, Al Qaeda's regional affiliates continue to expand their ranks, plot, and carry out attacks, as well as raise funds and inspire new recruits through social media and virtual technologies," the State Department said.
The U.S. continues to combat terrorism on all fronts, and "pursue Al Qaeda globally" while also apply maximum pressure on Iran, "significantly expanding sanctions on Iranian state actors and proxies," according to the department.

        
          SENIOR AL QAEDA LEADER KILLED DURING JOINT US-AFGHAN RAID ON TALIBAN COMPOUND, OFFICIALS SAY
        
      
In one piece of good news, the report said events in 2018 set the stage for the Islamic State (ISIS) to take a major hit in 2019.
U.S. and partner forces liberated "nearly all territory ISIS previously held in Iraq and Syria," which led to the final destruction of the so-called ISIS "caliphate" this year, per the State Department.
