
# Will address RCEP problems raised by India, says China

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:29:44+00:00**

Author: **TNN**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/will-address-rcep-problems-raised-by-india-says-china/articleshow/71931592.cms)

NEW DELHI/ BEIJING: China seemed to have climbed down from its tough stand over India’s non-participation in the trade block RCEP, while New Delhi said doors for negotiations with its Asian neighbours will remain open.
“RCEP is open. We will follow the principle of mutual understanding and accommodation to negotiate and resolve those outstanding problems raised by India and we welcome an early joining by India,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said.
India is worried that the trade agreement will open the floodgates of cheap Chinese imports and farm products from other nations in the block and will lead to closure of Indian factories and job losses. PM Narendra Modi had announced India’s decision to opt out of the trade bloc in Bangkok on Monday and China had reacted strongly at India’s decision to opt out.
“In international engagement and relations, the doors never shut with anybody... If they make a sincere effort to resolve our concerns, to give us confidence and help us to balance this trade inequality, then I think every nation should talk to their friends,” commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal told reporters on his return from the RCEP Summit in Bangkok. He made it clear that India wants other countries to open their markets, while ensuring that there was adequate protection from a flood of imports.
China said India will gain by signing the agreement. “If it is signed and put into implementation, it is conducive for Indian goods’ entry into China and other participating countries. In the same vein, it will also help Chinese goods to enter the markets of India and other participating countries,” said Geng. “This is two-way and complementary (deal) and I should point out that China and India are both emerging major developing countries. We have a huge market of 2.7 billion people and there is a big potential in the market.”
For China, RCEP is seen to be crucial as it is seen as an answer to Trump’s trade tantrums. For India, the bottom line is protecting interests of farmers, dairy sector, small businesses and domestic industry, which experts believe have not benefited from the earlier trade pacts. Goyal said the government is now looking to fix the imbalances through a review of trade treaties with Asean and Japan.
A decade after the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) with Asean was signed, India has finally managed to convince the 10-member trade bloc to review the treaty. While Indonesia had offered to lower or eliminate duties on close to 95% of the items, just around half the products will see tariff elimination. In contrast, India had agreed to shift 74% of the goods to zero duty as part of the deal.
The services agreement with Asean is seen to be lopsided with India gaining little as the Manmohan Singh government had opted to sign the goods treaty before the services pact was finalised, giving up on a crucial bargaining chip. In case of Japan, officials pointed out, there have been few nurses who have been allowed from India, which was seen as one of the main gains from the agreement. India is mounting pressure for an early review to alter the terms of trade.
