
# Mapeza: There's Been A Massive Improvement

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/norman-mapeza-there-s-been-a-massive-improvement/666904)

Chippa United head coach Norman Mapeza feels there has been a massive improvement from the side since his arrived at the club.

        Read: Chiefs Move Seven Points Clear Of Sundowns
      
Chippa remain without a win in the Absa Premiership following a defeat to the Soweto giants on Wednesday evening.
Despite falling yet another loss, Mapeza insists the side has improved over the past few weeks.
"It was unfortunate but credit must go to the boys, it was a massive improvement ever since I've been here. What we need is to keep working hard, keep believing and see how it progresses,"  Mapeza told SuperSport after the match.
"I'm so happy for the boys, there are so many positives since the Sundowns game. We are improving with each game, we just need to keep working hard.
"I said after I arrived that we need to have depth in the squad, now we have three guys who are out and I don't know what's gonna happen come Friday but I'm sure we'll come up with something when we go to AmaZulu.
"We have to fight, it's like war! We're already in the front lines now, we can't go back! We have to keep fighting, keep working hard. It's all about belief and perseverance. But credit to the boys, they worked hard, if we had buried the chances we had in the first half, we could be talking a different story."
