
# Cool heads are key for Jacques as Birmingham Moseley edge home again

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:31:08+00:00**

Author: **Paul Smith**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/rugby/birmingham-moseley-edge-home-again-17201768)

Fingernails are in short supply at Billesley Common these days, but despite experiencing four consecutive watch-from-behind-the-sofa finales, with a third of the season complete Adam Balding’s team remain unbeaten on home turf.
Sale were the latest side to leave Birmingham with only a consolatory losing bonus point, as the Red-and-Blacks once again held their collective nerve to score the ten points which clinched the National One spoils.
 
But while the club’s loyal fans currently face a fortnightly emotional roller-coaster ride, according to experienced back-rower Jacques le Roux there are nothing but cool heads to be found on the other side of the touchline.
“It was a bit touch-and-go at the end,” he admitted, “but in National One it is not unusual for it to take 60 or 70 minutes to break a team down, as there isn’t very much between a lot of them. “The results so far have shown that any team can beat another on their day, so it wasn’t a surprise when it went to the wire.
 
“Our good discipline and composure then played a massive role – those are areas where we have worked hard, and I think the benefits of that are showing. “Last year we lost a number of games in the closing stages but now we’ve learned which is a massive tribute to the boys’ ability to keep a cool head and get the job done.”
The former Coventry favourite, who is now in his fourth season at Moseley said gaining four points against Sale was the primary objective for a group of players who have the bigger picture in mind.
 
“We knew Saturday would be a tough game and the conditions were difficult as well,” he said. “It was a difficult start for us, getting two yellow cards only two minutes in, but the boys kept their composure. As a result, we didn’t concede too many points during the next ten minutes which really helped us.
 
“When we turned to play downhill the wind was behind us and we knew if we stuck to our game-plan the result would come. “A win is a win, and we’ve seen over the last few seasons that has to be your first priority. Bonus points play a massive role, but they are a secondary thing.
“Last week we said that the next three games would be vital to our season, and set ourselves the target of winning them all to ensure we stay in a competitive position towards the top of the table.
“We are one out of one after Saturday, which was always going to be a tough game, but with the advantage of a home crowd behind us we always believed that it was a game that we could win.
“Travelling to Plymouth next weekend will be difficult, but we are going on Friday which will hopefully help us be fresh to deliver on Saturday. They are a very tough team to break down at home – some of this year’s results have not gone their way but we’re not reading too much into that and we’re expecting a hard game.”
