
# McDonald's burger and fries bought 10 years ago in Iceland still look edible

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:12:17+00:00**

Author: **Sam Truelove**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/mcdonalds-burger-fries-bought-10-20795289)

A fast-food lover bought a McDonald's meal 10 years ago and kept it in a glass cabinet - and it doesn’t look like it’s aged one bit.
Hjortur Smarason was devastated when McDonald's closed all three of its restaurants in Iceland in 2009, so much so that he bought the nation's final burger and fries.
In a bid to test the theory of a McDonald's meal never ageing, Mr Smarason kept the food as a home-experiement.
This week marks 10 years since the food was purchased - and it still looks pretty tasty.
A live stream of the burger and fries shows there are no signs of mould or decay on the food.
 
"I had heard that McDonald's never decompose so I just wanted to see if it was true or not,” Mr Smarason told AFP.
The meal is now kept in a glass cabinet in Snotra House, a hostel in southern Iceland.
Before that, Mr Smarason kept the fast-food in a plastic bag in his garage, and after three years he donated the meal to the National Museum of Iceland where he noticed barely any change in its appearance.
Then the Museum decided that they weren’t equipped to preserve the food which is when they returned it to its original owner.
The meal was then kept at a different hostel in Reykjavik, before moving to its current home.
Hostel owner Siggi Sigurdur, who says people visit from around the world to see the burger and chips, told BBC News : “The old guy is still there, feeling quite well.
"It's a fun thing, of course, but it makes you think about what you are eating. There is no mould, it's only the paper wrapping that looks old."
