
# The West Brom man planning on giving Slaven Bilic a fresh headache

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:31:13+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Chapman, https://www.facebook.com/josephchapmanBM/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/west-brom-man-planning-giving-17219714)

It took until the end of October for Conor Townsend to make his mark on the West Brom side this season.
Townsend, who to date has only made 16 league appearances for the Baggies since joining the club from Scunthorpe United, replaced the struggling Nathan Ferguson in the meeting with Barnsley - picking up a point-earning assist - and then entered the fray when the teenager saw red against Charlton.
Against Stoke, he made light work of wing-back Tommy Smith in a defensive sense and offered a support to left-sided winger Grady Diangana going forwards.
Is now the time that Townsend is afforded the opportunity to make his first serious case of owning the left-back spot in Albion colours?
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
When Townsend was snapped up from then League 1 outfit Scunny, for a fee of around £750,000, the consensus was that he’d be arriving as cover for first-choice Gibbs.
Gibbs, who Albion held onto, was enjoying himself under Darren Moore; he found the net once or twice and tended to spend more time in the opposing half than his own. This admittedly didn’t help Albion’s frailties at the back.
So Townsend, who at 26 isn’t exactly a youngster, had to make do with cup appearances and run-outs from the bench here and there.
 
Fast forward to the beginning of this campaign - and the draw at Derby - sheer bad luck meant that, just as Gibbs also suffered an injury set-back, he was unavailable to take advantage.
By the time he’d returned, he found Ferguson making the left-back spot his own.
An academy star, who had grown up a centre-back and thrived at right-back, was now denying him his first significant run in the Albion side since he arrived more than 12 months earlier.
Ferguson will be available to face Bristol City in the coming weeks - can Townsend have cemented his place in the side by then?
 
Joshua Dyer: A player who I think went under the radar but was superb was Conor Townsend!!! Passing is great, attacks well, defends well! Adds a lot more dynamic on the left! Ferguson been class but Townsend suits this team a lot more with his forward running!
Matt Rowley : Townsend, Sawyers, Bartley, HRK, Livermore. Absolutely superb
TalkWBA : Townsend deserves a lot of credit. Rarely gave the ball away or was challenged defensively and made some good movement link up play with Diangana. Certainly stepped up to his calling
 
Arry Gill: Townsend stepped up well in the couple of appearances he’s made, fair play
Ricci Dunn : Townsend half decent going forward but doesn’t look like he has a clue when having to defend
Andrew Beech: Nice to see Townsend given ago. He isn’t as pacy as Ferguson but he can cross a ball
poll loading
Romaine Sawyers Kyle Bartley Jake Livermore Matt Phillips Grady Diangana Matheus Pereira Semi Ajayi Darnell Furlong Hal Robson-Kanu Sam Johnstone Charlie Austin Kyle Edwards Nathan Ferguson Filip Krovinovic Kenneth Zohore Kieran Gibbs
“I’ve been patient for the best part of two years now – at least 18 months. I have always been waiting for my chance and this is an opportunity now for me, definitely.
“It’s a shame for Nathan because he’s been brilliant when he’s been in the team, and Gibbo (Gibbs) is still injured, which is a shame too, but it is a chance for me and hopefully I can take it and kick on and prove that I’m the one that should play there.
 
“When I first came here I was new to the league. I had played a lot of games at lower league level but it’s different when you step up, but I’m confident in my own ability. I know I’m good enough to be in this team.
“With us fighting at the top end of the table I just want to keep doing that and keep on proving myself.”
