
# Win a Dream Wedding couple get touching message from St Mellion

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:55:43+00:00**

Author: **Jak Ball**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/win-dream-wedding-couple-touching-3497745)

A Plymouth couple that won a wedding of their dreams worth more than £12,000 have had their first few days together as man and wife.
Chris Thorning, 40 and Beth Cooper, 39, scooped the big prize in our Win a Dream Wedding 2019 contest, hosted by Plymouth Live and The Herald.
The wedding was held at the stunning St Mellion International Resort on Friday, November 1.
The pair have now been sent a message of love and support from the hosts.
A spokesperson for St Mellion said: "We were delighted to be part of Beth and Chris's big day, it was very rewarding to see them so happy and taking the opportunity we want to join their family and friends and wish them all the best.
"Remember that love and marriage get better with each passing year. May all that you feel today be just the start.
"We hope to see you again celebrating your anniversary with us in 2020 and all the years to come."
The happy pair met after both having failed relationships previously and have had a "whirlwind" romance ever since.
The couple, from Eggbuckland, had their first ever date on Perranporth Beach after meeting in work, when their eyes met across the photocopier.
Both had been previously and separately told they would never be able to have children - but then a miracle happened, and now they have their little daughter Elsie.
Chris and Beth touched the hearts of Plymouth people after entering the competition, which led to them being named winners and getting their dream day.
