
# We have learned from our mistakes, states Maymal Rocky

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:21:30+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/05/we-have-learned-from-our-mistakes-states-maymal-rocky?utm_medium=rss)


        The Indian women’s football team suffered a 3-0 loss in the first of the two FIFA international friendlies against Vietnam but head coach Maymal Rocky believes that her charges have taken home a lot from the game. India will face Vietnam in the second of the two friendlies on Wednesday.
      
The Indian women’s football team suffered a 3-0 loss in the first of the two FIFA international friendlies against Vietnam but head coach Maymal Rocky believes that her charges have taken home a lot from the game. “It was a difficult first game for us, but we have learnt a lot about ourselves and about our opponents in that defeat,” she said to Sportstar.
Rocky further stated that the team has identified the areas they need to work on and they have been trying to improve since the past few days. The coach recalled the team’s friendlies against Uzbekistan earlier this year when India suffered a 1-5 loss in the first game before bouncing back with a 1-1 draw in the second match.
“The most important thing is that even when we lose, the players learn something from that. When we had played against Uzbekistan, we lost the first match 1-5 but then worked on our errors to bounce back in the next game. That is the kind of reaction we are looking for from the girls now,” said Rocky.
“What we have to keep in mind is that we need to gain the experience of playing these tough international opponents so that we will be ready for the challenge when we play the AFC Women’s Asian Cup Qualifiers next year,” she added.
India will face Vietnam in the second of the two friendlies on Wednesday at the Vietnam Football Training Centre, with the kick-off set for 1.30 PM IST.
