
# England's Rugby World Cup captain Owen Farrell was almost Man Utd keeper

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:16:55+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/englands-rugby-world-cup-captain-20791972)

In a parallel universe Owen Farrell won't be captaining England in the Rugby World Cup final on Saturday morning - he'll be preparing for Manchester United's Premier League clash with Bournemouth.
Centre sensation Farrell is known for his safe pair of hands on the rugby field, which caught the eyes of United scouts back in 2005, when Farrell was 13.
He was brought in to train with the Red Devils by Sir Alex Ferguson's academy staff but instead turned his back on football when his father, league legend Andy, moved south to switch codes and play union for Saracans.
That decision has paid dividends for Farrell, with the 28-year-old 80 minutes from getting his hands on the Webb Ellis Cup - if Eddie Jones' England can beat South Africa in Yokohama, Japan.
First-team goalkeeping coach Richard Harris was particularly impressed by Farrell and personally recommended him to Ferguson.
Harris told the  Telegraph : "Owen was terrific.
"You could just tell from within a few minutes of meeting him that he carried himself really well.
"You can always tell when you meet a top-class sportsman, they have that air about them and he did."
Farrell, who grew up in Wigan when his dad played in the Super League, would have been in the same United age group side of Premier League mainstays Danny Drinkwater and Danny Welbeck.
He, modestly, remembers his time at United although believes he wouldn't be challenging David de Gea for the gloves now.
"I played in goal at school for a couple of games and one of our teachers at school was a coach with Manchester United youth," Farrell said back in 2012.
"I was 13 and I had a bit of a trial. I wouldn't say I was a brilliant goalkeeper, I'd say I was learning!
"I enjoyed going down there. I was a big lad when I was younger and I had decent hands from playing rugby - I was always a rugby player really."
