
# ‘Costlier pork substitutes imperil benign inflation’

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:12:47+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/06/costlier-pork-substitutes-imperil-benign-inflation/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
THE outbreak of African swine fever (ASF) is a threat to inflation given its potential to cut domestic pork supply and its impact on the prices of alternative protein sources, according to the National Economic and Development Authority (Neda).
The Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) on Tuesday said inflation slowed to 0.8 percent, the lowest in three-and-a-half years. However, prices of meat products, such as chicken and beef, as well as eggs have significantly increased.
“The livestock industry in ASF-stricken areas, which accounts for 21.7 percent of the country’s total hog production last year, remains at high risk,” Neda Officer in Charge (OIC) and Undersecretary for Regional Development Adoracion M. Navarro said.
“The government and private companies must collaborate to manage, contain, and control the spread of the disease,” she added.
National Statistician Dennis S. Mapa said the increase in the prices of chicken, beef and eggs were largely due to the outbreak of ASF given that these items are alternative sources of protein for Filipinos.
PSA data showed that at least in the National Capital Region (NCR) or Metro Manila, prices of whole chicken increased 14.9 percent year- on-year and 7.6 percent, month on month.
Data showed egg prices have been on the rise since July 2019 when it increased to 2.6 percent to 3.8 percent in August; 4.8 percent in September; and 5.2 percent in October.
Prices of pure beef meat posted a 4.6-percent year-on-year and a month-on-month growth of 0.7 percent in October. The prices of beef meat with bones are even higher, with a 6.2-percent year-on-year growth in October and a 0.9-percent growth compared to September 2019.
“We are aware of this and we are seeing an upward trend, particularly in the prices of chicken. So for meat overall, last month [it] was 2.4 [percent] and this month [it] was 2.7 [percent]. So there’s like a shift and we are seeing that it will continue. [Preliminary] data in November [are] still showing upward prices, particularly [for] chicken,” Mapa said.
Navarro said it is important for the government and private companies to collaborate in order to “manage, contain, and control the spread of the disease.”
She added that meat processing plants need to be more stringent and enforce stricter biosecurity measures. Navarro added that quarantine checkpoints and disinfection facilities must also be expanded and placed in key gateways, such as seaports, airports, and expressways.
“The country must be on the lookout for upside risks such as cases of ASF, which have been observed so far in Rizal, Pangasinan, Bulacan, Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Cavite, and Quezon City,” Navarro said.
Meanwhile, a Senate leader said the PSA-reported inflation of 0.8 percent in October, from 0.9 percent in the previous month, “is within our internal expectation and the expectation of economists.”
As the inflation rate “remains favorable, the BSP may resume easing its monetary policy to prop up the economy and help achieve its GDP target of 6 percent to 7 percent for this year,” according to Sen. Sherwin Gatchalian, Energy committee head who used to chair the Economic Affairs panel.
For her part, Neda’s Navarro said the overall inflation outlook remains encouraging given that average inflation reached 2.6 percent in the January-to-October period this year, well within the government’s 2 to 4 percent as inflation target.
Weaker nonfood inflation and partly base effects drove the subdued outturn, coming from 6.7 percent in the same period last year.
Food and nonalcoholic beverages deflation continued for the second consecutive month at 0.9 percent in October 2019, a sharp reversal from the 9.4-percent inflation recorded last year.
Rice deflation was observed for the sixth consecutive month, dropping further to -9.7 percent in October 2019 from -8.9 percent in September.
“The government has been driven and focused in its anti-inflationary efforts this year. We hope to further keep inflation manageable and within the government’s target,” Navarro said.
PSA data showed that inflation was higher in Metro Manila at 1.3 percent in October 2019, faster than the 0.9 percent posted in September 2019. Inflation in NCR was at 6.1 percent in October 2018.
Mapa said October 2019 inflation in NCR was due to food and nonalcoholic beverages, particularly because of higher chicken prices as well as fruits like apple, watermelon, and mango; and vegetables, particularly ampalaya leaves, garlic, and onion.
Inflation in Areas Outside the National Capital Region (AONCR) decelerated further to 0.7 percent in October 2019. In September 2019, its inflation was observed at 0.9 percent and in October 2018, 6.8 percent.
Image Credits: Ceasar M. Perante
