
# Holytown MMA fighter Chris Bungard dreams of bringing Bellator to Scotland

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Pirie, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/mark-pirie/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/holytown-mma-fighter-chris-bungard-20749604)

Holytown fighter Chris Bungard is looking to bring one the biggest mixed-martial arts companies in the world to Scotland.
The lightweight will compete against Mario Saeed in London at the O2 Arena for Bellator on November 23.
He thinks a dominant display will allow him to put the eyes of the world on Glasgow as he eyes up a blockbuster Hydro date in the future – and repay the supporters who have followed him for his last three fights in nine months across the UK.
“It’s a lot to ask fans to travel down with me, but I’m really lucky that I always get a great support,” said the 30-year-old.
“It’s a long way to go for a few fights now, and after the Leary fight I owe them a performance.
“I’ve had a few fight camps now and a few fights back to back, but I enjoy it. This is my job and I like being able to go and fight all the time.
“My goal is to bring Bellator to Scotland.
“I want to be the guy that brings it here to the Hydro.
“Once I put away Mario in a spectacular way we can bring it up here.
 
“You talk about Scotland and you always get a great atmosphere. Celtic Park, Ibrox, Hampden, these are places that have an amazing atmosphere.
“If they can go to places like Dublin and sell-out they can do it here as well. Arenas will sell-out in Scotland.”
He hopes that a win over his Kurdish counterpart inside the cage will help him bounce back from defeat to Charlie Leary in Newcastle earlier this year.
Bungard reckons his new approach to his weight and nutrition will properly prepare him for the bout – something that didn’t happen ahead of the fight against the Englishman in June.
The Scottish Hit Squad grappler has been training “two or three” times a day in the Coatbridge gym alongside the likes of UFC fighter Paul ‘Bearjew’ Craig.
“I’m looking forward to putting a beating on this guy I can’t wait to get back in there,” he said.
“The defeat to Leary was definitely the hardest for me because it was on such a big stage.
 
“It was the hardest defeat I have had to take, but also the defeat I have learned the most from.
“I went in to it too heavy and had to cut too much weight in the end. I have a new nutritionist who is one of the best for MMA and I feel like I’m in great shape.
“Last time I had to lose two stone before the fight and I lost the fight there.
“Now everything is going great and I’m on the right track.
“There is a couple of niggles but I’m enjoying my sessions. I wouldn’t be a Scottish fighter if there wasn’t a couple of bumps in the road.”
Bungard, nicknamed ‘The Bad Guy’ admits he is quite similar in style to Saeed, both in his approach to a fight and inside the cage.
However, he says he can already picture his win in his head, and says he won’t be able to outlast his rival.
 
He said: “We are quite similar fighters, and be both talk a load of s**** going into a fight.
“I’m really confident though. I can visualise the knee that I am going to give him.
“I can see myself now putting him down with the knee, whether that is for the knock-out or just before I beat him.
“I don’t see it going beyond one or two rounds. I don’t think he has the stamina to keep up with me beyond half a round
Tickets to watch Chris Bungard in action at Bellator London are on sale and can be purchased online from axs.com/uk and Bellator.com.
