
# Jennifer Aniston unveils rarely seen natural hair - and it's nothing like The Rachel

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:47:46+00:00**

Author: **Emmeline Saunders**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/jennifer-aniston-unveils-rarely-seen-20824038)

Jennifer Aniston has shown off her natural hair, after years of wearing it pencil-straight for red carpet events.
The 50-year-old Hollywood actress went back to her (curly) roots last night for the premiere of her and Reese Witherspoon's new programme The Morning Show, which is streaming on Apple TV+.
Wearing a slinky floor-length black dress that showed off her gym-honed figure and toned arms, Jen let her natural hair shine in the spotlight.
Her hairdresser Chris McMillan took to Instagram after the event to praise Jennifer for doing something different.
"This was such an honor to be a part of," he wrote.
"The hair is Jens natural curl and waves. Dried natural and touched up minimally with blow drying the roots for direction and touching up random pieces with a wave iron."
Jennifer's hair has always been an integral part of her image, with her iconic hairstyle in the late 1990s for Friends sparking its own name - The Rachel - and movement.
It comes as Jen joins forces with Reese to lift the lid on workplace sexism within journalism.
In The Morning Show, Jennifer's character Alex Levy struggles to keep her job after Mitch Kessler (played by Steve Carrell) is fired for sexual misconduct.
While she sets out to expose the network's culture of silence that has protected Mitch from facing justice, Alex must also rebut her rival Bradley Jackson (Reese Witherspoon)'s efforts to take her place in the hierarchy.
The three-parter's plot was inspired by the downfall of clean-cut Today Show host Matt Lauer , who was fired by NBC in 2018 over allegations he'd sexually harassed colleagues for 20 years.
"There's this absolute denial – 'It was consensual, it was consensual' – if you're a narcissist to the degree a lot of these guys are," Jennifer told the Guardian .
"They think, 'of course every woman wants to sleep with me'."
Meanwhile, Jennifer's one-time love rival Angelina Jolie has opened up about her "emotional scars" after her divorce from Brad Pitt.
Posing naked for Harper's Bazaar , Ange touched on the traumatic split and hinted Brad was preventing her from moving away from the US.
"I would love to live abroad and will do so as soon as my children are 18. Right now I’m having to base where their father chooses to live," she explained to the mag.
She also spoke about her 'scars', adding: "My body has been through a lot over the past decade, particularly the past four years, and I have both the visible and invisible scars to show for it.
"The invisible ones are harder to wrestle with. Life takes many turns. Sometimes you get hurt, you see those you love in pain, and you can’t be as free and open as your spirit desires. It’s not new or old, but I do feel the blood returning to my body."
Angelina and Brad had been Hollywood's golden couple before their shock split in 2016.
They have three biological children together Shiloh, 13, and 11-year-old twins Vivienne and Knox.
And they also raised adopted children Maddox, 18, Pax, 15, and Zahara, 14, during their time together.
