
# FBI arrests alleged white supremacist accused of planning bombing

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:12:51+00:00**

Author: **David Shortell, CNN**

Original: [CHANNEL3000](https://www.channel3000.com/news/national-news/fbi-arrests-alleged-white-supremacist-accused-of-planning-bombing/1139012558)

PUEBLO, Colorado (CNN) - A 27-year-old man who allegedly espoused white supremacist ideology online was arrested over the weekend by the FBI and accused of plotting to bomb a synagogue in Colorado.
Richard Holzer had brought a knife and a mask to a motel room and was examining inert pipe bombs prepared by undercover agents moments before he was arrested late Friday night, according to a criminal complaint.
Holzer is charged with attempting to obstruct the free exercise of religious beliefs with the attempted use of explosives. In court documents, officials called him a domestic terrorist and described his alleged anti-Semitic ideology and desires for a racial holy war.
According to the complaint, Holzer talked about killing Jews in forums online and shared photos of himself casing a synagogue in Pueblo. He described himself as a skinhead, and shared pictures of himself with other social media users with guns and knives alongside white supremacist symbols, the complaint says.
He also said he paid a "witch doctor" $70 to put arsenic in the water pipes of the synagogue and "hex" the place last year, according to the complaint.
Domestic terrorism and hate crimes have become a growing concern for law enforcement in recent years as a number of high profile attacks have left scores dead across the country. Eleven worshippers were killed in October last year when a white supremacist opened fire at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh.
Undercover FBI agents became involved with Holzer in late September and were interacting with him as he plotted the attack on the synagogue. In a meeting with three undercover agents at a restaurant in Colorado Springs last month, Holzer proposed using Molotov cocktails to destroy the Pueblo synagogue, according to the complaint.
"I want something that tells them they are not welcome in this town," Holzer allegedly said. "Let's get that place off the map."
Holzer allegedly visited Temple Emanuel in Pueblo multiple times after he hatched his plot with the undercover agents. On October 19, Holzer sent one agent a video of himself walking around the exterior of the synagogue and "commenting on various features of the building," the complaint says.
On the night of November 1, Holzer donned a Nazi armband and drove with an undercover agent to a motel. There, he toasted a "move for our race" and commented that the pipe bombs, which authorities said had been prepared with simulated black powder at the FBI lab in Quantico, Virginia, looked "absolutely gorgeous," according to the complaint.
The FBI arrested him soon afterward and took him to a local police station where he admitted to planning to blow up the synagogue, the complaint says.
Holzer was set to make his first appearance in Denver federal court Monday afternoon. He does not yet have an attorney listed on his case.
