
# Mum pays tribute to 'beautiful' daughter who died after post-birth tummy op

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:44:33+00:00**

Author: **Louie Smith, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mum-pays-tribute-beautiful-daughter-20793260)

The mum of a woman who died after having a tummy tuck following the birth to her third child has paid tribute to her "hardworking" and "beautiful" daughter.
Louise Harvey, 36, suffered a fatal blood clot 18 days after undergoing breast enlargement and tummy tuck ops at a London clinic.
During the five-day hearing it emerged the beautician was not given a second dose of anticoagulant drugs despite a family history of blood clotting.
But Coroner Yvonne Blake has now ruled that the missing medication did not contribute to mum-of-three Louise's death.
 
Following the inquest her devastated mum Linda said: "I wanted justice for Louise and some answers and I do have some but not all of them.
“Louise was a hardworking girl. She wasn’t vain, she was beautiful even if she didn’t believe it.
"We all just miss her so much.”
Louise, from Norwich, decided to undergo the procedures at Transform Riverside Hospital on 17 June last year.
Linda explained why her daughter had wanted to go under the knife.
She said: "She felt she had some loose skin around her belly following the birth of her youngest son".
 
Louise was given one dose of blood thinning medication later than is medically recommended and did not receive another prescribed dose, the inquest heard.
On June 3 and June 9 Louise had flown three hours each way to a family holiday in Bulgaria.
Her mum said it was her 36-year-old daughter's first time on a plane and she had been "very excited" about the flights and the holiday.
However, she collapsed on 3 July and died two days later.
The inquest heard previously heard how her grandmother had also died of a blood clot.
Linda said Louise had spoken with someone from Transform clinic and "they suggested having (the two operations) at the same time as it would be cheaper".
 
Louise collapsed around two weeks after the operation and could not be saved.
A post-mortem examination found she died of a blood clot in her lungs.
Coroner Blake gave a narrative conclusion before passing on her "sincere condolences" to Louise's family.
She said: "In hospital she was given one dose of medication late and one which was prescribed was not given.
''The evidence shows that this did not cause or contribute to her death."
Coroner Blake pledged to write to the new owners of the hospital, which has been taken over since Louise's death.
She said: “I will write an informal letter to the group that took over just explaining I had concerns about policies and documentation and ask them for a copy of their policies.”
