
# BMW unveils new S 1000 XR, F 900 R, F 900 XR

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:31:00+00:00**

Author: **Vishal Venugopal**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/bmw-unveils-new-s-1000-xr-f-900-r-f-900-xr-414770)

The S 1000 XR’s engine is based on the new S 1000 RR’s, while the F 900 R and XR get a reworked engine from the F 850 GS.
BMW Motorrad has revealed three new models that will be part of its 2020 line-up – the next-gen S 1000 XR, and the all-new F 900 R and F 900 XR. The differentiating factor (apart from the obvious design) between the latter two is that the R is a roadster with more aggressive ergonomics while the SR offers some touring oriented features.

        F 900 R and F 900 XR
      
The duo is the German manufacturer’s latest additions to its Adventure Sport category. Both motorcycles feature an in-line twin-cylinder engine that finds its roots in the unit seen on the F 850 GS. However, on these new bikes, the displacement has been increased to 895cc from 853cc. The bump in size brings in an increase in power, with 105hp (previously 95hp) at 8,750rpm, while peak torque remains unchanged, at 92Nm at 6,500rpm.
The bikes make use of a steel bridge frame similar to that of the F 850 GS and F 750 GS, with the engine also acting as a stress-bearing element. The F 900 XR has a 15.5-litre fuel tank while the R gets slightly less, at 13 litres. The XR also gets greater suspension travel – 170mm (front) and 172mm (rear) – in comparison to the 135mm (front) and 142mm (rear) on the F 900 R.
Both bikes feature a 6.5-inch TFT screen with BMW Motorrad Connectivity and get two riding modes – Rain and Road – as well as ABS and ASC as standard. Like with many other BMW motorcycles, Riding Modes Pro, Dynamic Traction Control (DTC), ABS Pro, Dynamic Brake Control (DBC) and engine drag torque control (MSR) are offered as optional extras.

        S 1000 XR
      
The new S 1000 XR features a new engine, and is lighter and better equipped than the outgoing model. The changes result in a bike that weighs 226kg – 10kg less than its predecessor. A large part of this weight reduction comes with the engine (based on the new S 1000 RR’s) that now weighs 5kg less. The inline-four produces 165hp at 11,000rpm and 114Nm of torque at 9,250rpm. BMW has also revealed that the fourth, fifth and sixth gear now have longer ratios, in order to reduce noise, fuel consumption and engine speed level. Speaking of the engine, it now also takes on a more pronounced load-bearing function. In addition to an anti-hopping clutch, the new S 1000 XR also features engine drag torque control (MSR). The suspension has been redesigned as well and features lighter components.
Unlike the F 900 twins, the 2020 S 1000 XR features Dynamic ESA, Riding Modes Pro, ABS Pro, DTC, Hill Start Control Pro and four riding modes – Rain, Road, Dynamic and Dynamic Pro – as standard. The 6.5-inch TFT screen has been redeveloped as well and is supposedly easier to read, while offering more information to the rider.
Updates to the new S 1000 XR are evident on the surface as well, with redesigned bodywork and two colour schemes – Ice Grey and Racing Red/White Aluminium.
