
# Tamworth company fined thousands for dumping waste

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:13:50+00:00**

Author: **Helen Machin**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/local-news/tamworth-company-fined-thousands-dumping-17216661)

A TAMWORTH paint stripping company has had to pay thousands of pounds in costs and fines after it dumped illegal amounts of chemicals into sewers.
At Birmingham Magistrates Court, Enviro-Strip GB Ltd, based in Wilnecote, Tamworth, pleaded guilty to charges of breaching limits for various substances, most notably phosphorous and zinc.
The judge fined the company £2,400, with another £5,242 in costs, for its actions.
The chemicals dumped into the sewers eventually ended up at Severn Trent’s sewage treatment works, where the company had to deal with the issue.
James Jesic, Managing Director of Production for Severn Trent, said: “While we’re happy with the outcome, it was extremely concerning that Enviro-Strip GB Ltd made these illegal discharges, time and again.
“It’s absolutely vital that we take this sort of legal action to protect both our treatment works and also the environment, as well as recovering costs that, otherwise, our customers would have to bear.”
 
Phosphorus samples taken by Severn Trent in April 2018 were found to be more than 70 times the agreed limit for the firm.
Zinc samples also taken in April 2018 recorded levels more than eight times the limit.
Severn Trent said that whilst a company was permitted to discharge a certain amount of waste into its sewer network, there were agreed limits.
It said that higher than allowed levels of chemical discharges could lead to the sewage treatment works having to shut down, which would not be good for customers.
There is also a knock-on effect that sludge produced at the works cannot be used for agricultural purposes and has to go to landfill, having a detrimental effect on the environment.
