
# AUS vs PAK | Nice to be there till end and guide Australia to victory, states Steve Smith

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:03:36+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/aus-vs-pak-nice-to-be-there-till-end-and-guide-australia-to-victory-states-steve-smith?utm_medium=rss)


        Man of the match in the 2nd T20I vs Pakistan, Steve Smith- who scored an unbeaten 80 off 51 to negate the impact of Babar Azam and Ifthikar Ahmed- says that he was happy to be there till the end and guide Australia to victory. Australia chased down the target of 151 runs with nine balls to spare.
      
Australia cricket team continued their recent dominance at home in T20 Internationals after overcoming Pakistan in the 2nd T20I at the Manuka Oval in Canberra on Tuesday. Steve Smith scored an unbeaten 80* as Australia went through Pakistan with nine balls to spare. Earlier in the day, Pakistan managed to post a total of 150/6 after Captain Babar Azam won the toss and elected to bat.
This was Pakistan’s first game after the sacking of former captain Sarfaraz Ahmed as the first T20I in Sydney was washed out. Skipper Azam led from the front scoring a magnificent half-century as the other batsmen failed to get going. Iftikhar Ahmed added late fireworks including smashing Kane Richardson for 22 runs in the penultimate over to take Pakistan to a respectable 150/6. Iftikhar remained unbeaten on 62*. 
Australia’s run chase was kick-started by David Warner as he smashed four boundaries in an over of Imad Wasim. Warner, who remained unbeaten throughout the series against Sri Lanka, got dismissed after Mohammad Amir got the better him. Australia Captain Aaron Finch soon followed as Smith continued his stellar form as he continued to pierce gaps on the field en-route a scintillating half-century. Skipper Aaron Finch praised his team, especially the Man of the Match, Smith.
“Very pleasing. We were very good today. Getting wickets consistently was pleasing. Got guys like Steve, who does what he does best. I think at times our execution at the death could have been better. The shots that me and Davey played also weren't great either,” Finch was quoted by saing by Cricbuzz.
Smith's undefeated 80 off 51 balls neutralised the impact of Azam and big-hitter Ahmed to guide the hosts to a seven-wicket win. And the MoM was happy to have got the job done for his team.
“Nice to be there till the end and see the boys home. The bowlers bowled beautifully. It was a slower ball and it took the edge of the bat to go on to the leg-side (referring to his uppercut). As a batter that's the plan to get under their (the bowlers') nerves. You try to find a way as a batter and do it to the best of your abilities,” Smith said.
