
# Five Mayo projects qualify for 2020 BT Young Scientist & Technology finals

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:54:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/06/4181957-five-mayo-projects-qualify-for-2020-bt-young-scientist--technology-finals/)

FIVE projects from four Mayo schools have qualified as finalists of the 2020 BT Young Scientist & Technology Exhibition.
They were been announced today as the exhibition gears up for the 57th year of the renowned educational event.
BT, the organiser of the event, delivered the good news to the over 1,100 students involved in the 550 finalist projects this week.
In total, over 1,800 projects were submitted by students in schools all across the island of Ireland.
The students will now begin preparing to exhibit their projects and meet the judges at the Exhibition in January 2020.
The Mayo finals are:
1. St. Muredach's College, Ballina (To investigate the effect of spreading slurry on earthworms), Biological and Ecological category, group entry.
2. Jesus & Mary Secondary School, Crossmolina (Neurotypicals Vs Neurodivergents reactions to different coloured L.E.Ds), Social and Behavioural Sciences category, individual entry.
3. St. Joseph’s Secondary School (Dogs Defined), Biological and Ecological category, group entry.
4. Coláiste Mhuire (Cleachtais Feirmeoireachta Inbhuanaithe in Éireann), Social and Behavioural Sciences category, group entry.
5. Jesus & Mary Secondary School, Crossmolina (Using linguistic analytic techniques to highlight negative sentiments in social media activity), Chemical, Physical & Mathematical Sciences category, individual entry.
