
# S P Setia to include smart home features in upcoming launches

Published at: **2019-11-01T03:42:20+00:00**

Author: **Chelsey Poh**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/s-p-setia-include-smart-home-features-upcoming-launches)

PETALING JAYA (Nov 1): S P Setia Bhd will incorporate smart-home features in its upcoming landed residential development next year.
In an effort to understand the customers’ needs and preferences prior to project planning and development, the developer has unveiled an Experience Lab in Setia EcoHill Club 360, said Setia EcoHill general manager Koh Sooi Meng in a press statement.
“The Experience Lab will also equip buyers with knowledge on value-added features that are available in the market and gauge their response towards futuristic technologies before adapting them into other Setia developments,” he explained.
Opened in Oct 19, 2019, the Experience Lab has drawn prospective buyers’ attention to learn more about the new smart-home features that will come with the upcoming double-storey terraced houses.
The Experience Lab showcases a futuristic smart-home system from Blu Guard, engineered timber flooring, digital lockset and dry wall system.
Koh also revealed that the upcoming terraced house project – Heleena, will be offering these smart-home features to property buyers.
Heleena is also the last phase of terraced homes in Setia EcoHill, Selangor. It is easily accessible through Kajang-Seremban Highway (LEKAS) and Jalan Semenyih.
Besides Heleena, Setia EcoHill is also offering Carnus double-storey terraced houses with land area measuring 22 ft by 70 ft with built-up choices ranging from 1,772 sq ft to 1,873 sq ft.
