
# Epy resurrects dad Dolphy, KZ a big revelation

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:33:27+00:00**

Author: **Mario Bautista**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/entertainment/showbiz/epy-resurrects-dad-dolphy-kz-big-revelation)

But surprise, surprise! The script about the lost art of courtship in this day and age of instant relationships is well-written and the direction is also above average. But we believe the film can stand some editing to trim down the “laylay boringa” portions, especially in the last half hour when it starts to drag a bit. But we really like how the bittersweet ending was handled, especially after some time have passed and the two protagonists meet again with them already achieving their respective dreams of being a writer and a singer.
Epy Quizon is absolutely terrific in the leading man role. It's like his dad Dolphy got resurrected. He knows exactly what kind of treatment he'd give to his role as a world-weary 40 something bachelor who falls in love for the first time. It’s a very nuanced performance, what with him often breaking down the fourth wall to talk directly to the camera. He deserves to be given bigger roles in the future.
KZ Tandingan is also a revelation in her first acting role, acquitting herself quite well even in her dramatic scenes very convincingly. And she gets to sing many songs here that are potential hits, especially “Quicksand” and “Walang Hiyang Pag-ibig”. And yes, she even gets to do a duet with JK Labajo singing the monster hit “Buwan”.
Giving great support are Roxanne Barcelo as KZ’s sophisticated boss who’s so sexy but turns out to be a lipstick lesbian, Archie Alemania as Epy’s supportive best friend and Director Jourdan Sebastian himself as the podcast host who interviews Epy towards the end of the movie about the book he wrote entitled “The Art of Ligaw” which is the result of his romance with KZ that was surely a valuable learning experience for him.
“The Art of Ligaw” is set in Davao and gets to explore the beauty of Samal Island in one sequence. It opens in theaters on November 13 and we hope viewers will give it a chance at the box office.
