
# Litigation finance faces ethical quandaries

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:08:32+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Economist](https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2019/11/07/litigation-finance-faces-ethical-quandaries)

FROM A FINANCIAL perspective, a civil lawsuit is rather like a derivatives contract. Its value to a claimant comes from the performance of an underlying asset—litigation—with an uncertain, potentially lucrative outcome. No surprise, then, that some see the allure of funding legal expenses upfront in exchange for a share of the proceeds if the case is won or settled. Payouts are uncorrelated with other markets, so investors can use them to diversify. The complexity of the asset makes it hard to price, which offers room for shrewd calculation. Throw in reports of fat returns from third-party litigation-finance (TPLF) firms and it is easy to see why the industry is growing strongly. A survey by Westfleet Advisors, a litigation-finance broker, finds that commercial cases in America attracted $2.3bn of investment in the year to June.
Speaking at an industry conference in New York in September, David Perla of Burford Capital, a litigation funder that is listed in London, trumpeted his firm’s $2.5bn in assets and $225m in half-year post-tax profits. Michael Nicolas of Longford Capital, a private funder, said that lawyers are now more receptive to TPLF. So too are companies and universities harbouring “monetisable” claims of patent infringement. Boosters champion the industry’s ability to provide capital, share risk and increase access to justice.
Not everybody shares that rosy view. Critics of TPLF, chief among them the US Chamber of Commerce, a lobbying group, contend that the industry encourages frivolous cases. But Brian Fitzpatrick, a law professor at Vanderbilt University, points out that a savvy investor would not back a meritless case. Another question is whether litigants should disclose their use of third-party funding before proceedings begin. Proponents say transparency would unearth conflicts of interest that a judge may have if, say, she has a stake in a hedge fund that is bankrolling the plaintiff. Others counter that forced disclosure could give the other side an information advantage, enabling them to force an early settlement or wage a spending war of attrition.
Third-party funding can have some unpalatable outcomes. In 2016 billionaire Peter Thiel funded a lawsuit against Gawker Media, a news website, over its publication of a sex tape featuring a professional wrestler, which eventually drove the company out of business. TPLF might increase the frequency of such uncomfortable consequences. But Tony Sebok, a professor at the Cardozo School of Law, points out that preventing that activity would mean virtuous causes go unfunded.
Critics of TPLF also worry that lawyers might be torn between the client and the funder, especially if investors finance the law firm on a repeated basis. Most TPLF firms claim to write their contracts to preclude such ethical conflicts. But in August Muddy Waters, an investment firm, criticised Burford’s accounting, which, it claimed, suggested that ongoing litigation was concluded, and concealed losses. (Burford says the claims are based on “factual inaccuracies” and “fallacious insinuations”.) As newcomers pile in, standards could become less prudent.
The best the industry can do is to form a trade association requiring members to uphold a code of conduct. This already exists in Britain and mostly seems to work well. Industry players could also make the scale and scope of deal flow public. Mr Sebok argues that funders should be more transparent on prices charged to litigants, particularly in consumer cases, where claimants tend to be more vulnerable than on the commercial side. Appropriate guardrails could bolster the case for betting on lawsuits. ■
