
# Five asteroids will skim past Earth today - including one the size of Great Pyramid of Giza

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:08:51+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/science/five-asteroids-skim-past-earth-20788526)

Five asteroids are set to skim past our planet this evening, NASA has revealed.
The space rocks will pass Earth in quick succession, with the first passing taking place at 18:48 GMT, and the fifth at 20:45 GMT.
NASA estimates that the largest of the five, dubbed 2019 UD13, measures between 54 metres and 120 metres in diameter.
At the higher end of that estimate, it suggests that the asteroid could be almost as big as the Great Pyramid of Giza!
As well as being the biggest of the five, 2919 UD13 will also be travelling the quickest during its passing, zooming past Earth at a whopping 51,874 miles/hour.
Thankfully, the asteroids will pass Earth at a safe distance, meaning it’s extremely unlikely one will hit us.
 
The closest of the five, dubbed 2019 UP7, will be 3.6 million miles from Earth when it passes. While this mights sound far, it's classed by NASA as a 'close' passing.
NASA discovers around 30 new ‘near-Earth objects’ (NEOs) every week, and at the start of 2019 had discovered a total of more than 19,000 objects.
However, the space agency has warned its NEO catalogue isn’t complete, meaning an unpredicted impact could occur at ‘any time.’
NASA and European Space Agency team up to stop killer asteroids hitting Earth Asteroids
NASA explained: “Experts estimate that an impact of an object the size of the one that exploded over Chelyabinsk, Russia, in 2013 – approximately 55 feet (17 meters) in size – takes place once or twice a century.
“Impacts of larger objects are expected to be far less frequent (on the scale of centuries to millennia).
“However, given the current incompleteness of the NEO catalogue, an unpredicted impact – such as the Chelyabinsk event – could occur at any time.”
