
# Madrid To Organize The COP25 In Record Time

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ana Garcia Valdivia**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/anagarciavaldivia/2019/11/04/madrid-to-organize-the-cop25-in-record-time/)

Madrid will host the 25th United Nations Climate Change summit (COP25) from December 2 to 13 after Chile’s resignation. The Spanish capital has four weeks to face the logistical challenge of the most important event of the year to provide solutions to the global climate crisis. The massive anti-government protests and social unrest in Chile led President Sebastián Piñera to renounce hosting the COP25 on October 30. One day after the announcement, Spanish acting prime minister Pedro Sánchez offered to assume the organization of the summit by the scheduled dates.
On November 1, the UN Climate Change Executive Secretary (UNFCCC) Patricia Espinosa accepted the proposal. “It will be a privilege to back and facilitate global action on climate. Progressive and constructive multilateralism is the best answer to global challenges,” said the Spanish ministry of Ecological Transition Teresa Ribera.
The COP25 will take place in the facilities of IFEMA —Madrid’s main entity in charge of fairs, halls, and congresses— and will gather 25,000 people from some 200 countries. While the organization of the UN summit normally takes between one and two years of preparation, Madrid has one month to solve all logistical and security challenges.
The notoriety of the participants —prime ministers, important businessmen, and high-profile activists, —require exceptional security measures along the 80,000 square meters in which the COP25 will be held.
The Spanish capital must also assure hotel places and transport logistics including air traffic. But the Executive is aware of the significant advantages of taking up this challenge.
The summit is foreseen to attract worldwide attention. The unprecedented global mobilizations and strikes for climate taking place this year following activist Greta Thunberg’s movement Fridays for Future have placed the climate change debate on top of the public agenda.
Besides boosting Spain's international image, the COP25 has a major economic impact related to the service sector. Hotels, restaurants, and transport associations will be mobilized to guarantee attendants’ accommodation and wellbeing in exchange for a push to the tertiary industry.
Madrid’s mayor José Luis Martínez Almeida has assured that the city has “experience”, “capacity” and “illusion” to host the COP25. Altough the conservative mayor was in the international spotlight for attempting to suspend Madrid’s successful low-emissions zone provoking outrage among civil society and environmental groups last June.

        Spain's opportunity to lead on climate
      
After failing to form government in September, the COP25 is a golden opportunity for Sánchez to regain notoriety placing Spain in a leading position on climate.
The acting prime minister aims to lead the block of socialist countries in the EU when it comes to the ecological transition, but political instability in the country has been driving Sánchez away from this target.
“Our government remains firmly committed to lasting progress and a just ecological transition,” stated Sánchez following the COP25 relocation to Madrid announcement.
Last month, Spain along with other seven EU Member States sent a letter to the European Commission Vice President Frans Timmermans —responsible for a European Green Deal and a European Climate Law— calling to raise the EU’s carbon dioxide reduction target for 2030 from 40% to 55%.
But doubts have raised regarding the suitability of Spain’s offer to host the summit a few days before holding the second general elections of the year —taking place on November 10.

        Electoral propaganda?
      
Concerns not only have to do with the stability fact, but also with the potential electoral propaganda purposes behind the decision.
The Spanish movement Students for Climate has described it as an “electoral measure” and regretted that the offer has been "produced to give notoriety to Sánchez 's party candidacy" (PSOE) during the electoral campaign.
"We risk that this COP25 will be a cosmetic summit that does not live up to the climate emergency," they warned.
