
# Owners of £1.3million Rightmove house leaving everybody 'ill' speak out

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:32:40+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/owners-13million-rightmove-house-leaving-17200557)

The owners of a £1.3million Rightmove home leaving everybody viewing it feeling "ill" have spoken out.
BirminghamLive's initial reporting of the listing on the property website has received hundreds of thousands of page views.
And, ever since a tweet highlighting the home went viral, the phone has been "ringing off the hook" at the estate agents, they say.
Now, the owners have spoken out over the viral nature of their home, which has set tongues wagging owing to the sheer amount of plug sockets it boasts.
Estate agents Andrew Pearce, who are selling the property, say phones have been 'ringing off the hook' since the tweet went viral.
But they also said the current owner bought the property with the sockets already in place five years ago and said that they also don't know why there's so many sockets.
Joe Prosser, who works at the firm, said: "This property has attracted over 330,000 views on Rightmove since it’s been mentioned on Twitter over the weekend.
"We have been inundated with enquires from both genuine buyers and inquisitive members of the public asking why so many sockets.
"Our client purchased the house in 2014 in its current form and commented that when furniture is in place the sockets are less visible.
"The client will address the removal of sockets should that form part of any negotiations with a perspective buyer.
"Despite some of the negative comments, the property is currently going through negotiations and we are anticipating a sale will be agreed shortly.
 
"We would encourage any genuine purchasers to get in touch as soon as possible."
When the property was previously listed for rent in 2017 the sockets were also visible on the photos - with one of the rooms being used for an office - with several items plugged in.
