
# Andrew Tye set to be ruled out for 3-4 months after elbow surgery

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:13:45+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/02/andrew-tye-set-to-be-ruled-out-for-3-4-months-after-elbow-surgery?utm_medium=rss)


        Andrew Tye will have to undergo surgery on his elbow, which will effectively rule him out for the rest of the summer, at least for three to four months. Tye will also miss the entirety of the 2019-20 Big Bash League season alongside Jason Behrendorff, who is all set to undergo back surgery.
      
It is not a good time to be the bowling coach of Perth Scorchers. A team that was built on the ethos of Justin Langer using Money Ball to the maximum has been left with a considerably weak pace battery as Andrew Tye is set to miss the upcoming season of the Big Bash League. Tye's surgery is set to rule him out for a period of three to four months and it came on the back of Jason Behrendorff's back surgery and Nathan Coulter-Nile signing with Melbourne Stars.
Earlier, Tye was initially named in the Australia squad for the six T20Is against Sri Lanka and Pakistan but after he lost his balance and "felt a bit of a pop" in his elbow, was withdrawn from the squad. Sean Abbott was named as his replacement and now Tye will miss the major chunk of Australia's preparation for the T20 World Cup at home.
However, it might hardly impact the Australian national team as the team still has a very good pace bowling line-up at their disposal in the form of Mitchell Starc, Pat Cummins, Billy Stanlake and Kane Richardson.
