
# Liam Polworth transfer chase with Portsmouth keen on in-form Motherwell star

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Burns, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/scott-burns/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-transfer-news/liam-polworth-transfer-chase-portsmouth-20812094)

Portsmouth are on the trail of Motherwell star Liam Polworth.
The English League One outfit have been scouting the in-form midfielder.
The 25-year-old has been a major player in the Steelmen’s rise to third spot in the Premiership.
Polworth has now come on to the radar of Portsmouth boss Kenny Jackett, who already has Rangers star Ross McCrorie on loan, and his scouting team will run the rule over the playmaker over the coming weeks.
Meanwhile, Well boss Stephen Robinson wants his players to follow Liverpool and Manchester City’s lead to break teams down.
The Fir Park outfit secured their second 2-1 win in a row when Allan Campbell’s late strike helped them to overcome Livingston and remain in third place.
Campbell’s run into the penalty area was rewarded when the ball broke to him and he slotted it home to seal the win.
And Robinson insists it is important to have willing runners who will go in front of the players in order to break down teams that sit in.
Robinson said: “Both games in the last few days we’ve said, ‘You’re going to have to be patient’.
“Teams know what sort of pace we’ve got and they sit in.
“If you look at Liverpool and Manchester City all their players have all got legs and want to run beyond the ball.
“It’s important everyone doesn’t come to the ball at times.”
