
# Rangers and Celtic fans could be fined and get six points for putting team stickers on car

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:53:32+00:00**

Author: **James Andrews**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/rangers-celtic-fans-could-fined-20801150)

Scottish football fans could find themselves in hot water if they show their team's colours on their car .
It comes a little known fact that having club stickers proudly displayed on a vehicle's windows or body could be considered "modifications", according to some insurers.
So, for example, Glaswegians showing their love for Rangers and Celtic may be invalidating their cover, according to The Mirror .
And it could land them with up with 6 points on their licence and a £300 fine if insurance companies aren't told about the stickers.
It all comes after a probe from Auto Express and the British Insurance Brokers Association
“While some additions to your car are obvious candidates for telling your insurer about, many motorists will be surprised by the strict definition of modification, and how even a sticker in the back window could void your policy,” said Auto Express consumer editor Hugo Griffiths.
It's not an idle threat, either.
 
A few years ago Reverend Wena Parry, 75, sent photos of her car as part of a claim, only for the insurance company to say she had 10 days to explain why she hadn't told them about the stickers she applied and warned "the policy may be declared void".
In a letter Age UK Insurance said: "These modifications do not fit our acceptance criteria for motor insurance. Cover would have been declined if we had been made aware of these at the time of purchasing your policy."
While her insurer did, eventually, pay out - the warning it there for all to see.
“Failing to declare something as humble as paint protection film or different alloy wheels could void a policy entirely, potentially costing thousands in the event of an incident, and even putting motorists at risk of a £300 fine and six penalty points,” Griffiths said.
Mark Barlow, managing director of IFM Insurance, told Mirror Money: "This type of behaviour by a minority of insurers questions the credibility of the whole insurance sector.
 
"My advice to drivers would be to use a credible broker who would not place cover with any insurer who would consider invalidating a claim on such a technicality.
"If you are insuring direct with the insurer, ask them the question."
