
# YouTube live streams get even more Twitch-like with Super Stickers launch

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Julia Alexander**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/5/20949437/youtube-live-streams-super-stickers-chat-cartoons-twitch-revenue)

YouTube is launching a new product today called Super Stickers, which will allow a select number of creators to earn additional revenue during live streams.
Super Stickers are little cartoon characters that fans can purchase to show their support for a streamer. The stickers on YouTube are not customizable, however, like many emotes on Twitch are. The product is launching today in 60 countries for creators who are over 18 years old and have monetized channels with more than 1,000 subscribers. The company first announced Super Stickers during its annual keynote at VidCon, a convention for creators and fans held in Anaheim, California.
There are eight sticker packs available at launch, five of which will feature animated cartoons. Those animated cartoons come with unique messages to help fans connect with creators. A few of the stickers can be seen below.
YouTube decided to implement the stickers after seeing the success of Super Chat, its Twitch-like tool that allows people to purchase better placement for their messages to streamers. More than 100,000 channels use Super Chat, according to the company, with some creators earning more than $400 a minute.
It hasn’t all been positive, though. YouTube has faced backlash for allowing people to earn revenue from Super Chat while using hateful language or imagery. There are multiple examples of Super Chat being used to promote hateful ideologies, including a report from The Wall Street Journal that found people paying to boast anti-Semitic comments on a live stream hosted by far-right personality Ethan Ralph following a mass shooting at Pittsburgh’s Tree of Life synagogue. YouTube’s policy states that if a Super Chat is “removed for violating our policies, YouTube will donate our portion of revenue to charity.”
There are only a select number of Super Stickers available at launch, but the company is planning to release more in the coming months.
