
# Close Losses Give Philadelphia 76ers Critical Learning Experiences

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bryan Toporek**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bryantoporek/2019/11/07/close-losses-give-philadelphia-76ers-critical-learning-experiences/)

It took three days for the Philadelphia 76ers to go from undefeated to inciting widespread panic.Their loss against the surprisingly frisky Phoenix Suns on Monday could be written off in part because Joel Embiid sat out to serve the remainder of his suspension for fighting Minnesota Timberwolves center Karl-Anthony Towns. And to some extent, their loss against the Utah Jazz on Wednesday can be written off because All-Star point guard Ben Simmons left with a sprained AC joint in his right shoulder after only 10 minutes.
But regardless of the circumstances, both losses exposed some warts for Philly.
The Sixers had the league's best defensive rating as they embarked upon their four-game Western Conference road trip, but they promptly proceeded to give up 128 points to the Portland Trail Blazers and 114 points against Phoenix sans Embiid. Although they managed to overcome a 21-point third-quarter deficit against Portland for a thrilling come-from-behind victory, Blazers star guard Damian Lillard surgically picked them apart coming out of halftime.
Lillard finished with a game-high 33 points on 11-of-16 shooting, which wound up being a sign of things to come against the suddenly shaky Sixers defense.
Two nights later, Suns star guard Devin Booker erupted for a season-high 40 points on 15-of-19 shooting in the Sixers' first loss of the season, including a 3-of-4 showing from deep and a perfect 7-of-7 from the charity stripe. It was Booker's fifth straight 30-point outing against the Sixers, and he helped to break the game open late after Philly tied it at 100 apiece with less than four minutes remaining.
The Sixers did limit Boston Celtics star point guard Kemba Walker to a 4-of-18 night in their season opener, and they clamped down on Atlanta Hawks guard Trae Young after he guided his squad to a 40-point first quarter on Oct. 28. However, the point-of-attack defense remains a work in progress despite the offseason additions of Josh Richardson and rookie Matisse Thybulle.
The same holds true for the Sixers' late-game execution with regard to traps and double-teams.
Facing a one-point deficit with eight seconds remaining, Lillard ran to the opposite end of the court upon recognizing Simmons was about to double him, which led to a defensive breakdown. He kicked out to second-year guard Anfernee Simons, who drilled a go-ahead corner three that would have been the game-winner if not for Furkan Korkmaz's ensuing heroics.
A similar problem arose against Phoenix two nights later.
With Simmons guarding Booker, Aron Baynes went to the top of the three-point arc to set a screen. Rather than sag back and concede an open mid-range shot, Sixers center Al Horford rushed out to the perimeter to harass Booker, while Simmons fought through the Baynes screen and ran over to double him.
Booker swung the ball to a wide-open Kelly Oubre Jr., who calmly drilled a three-pointer to extend Phoenix's lead to seven points with just over a minute remaining.
It's worth noting that Philly's starting lineup—Simmons, Horford, Embiid, Tobias Harris and Josh Richardson—wasn't on the floor for either possession. But with Embiid back in the mix Wednesday against Utah, another long-standing problem reared its ugly head.
After the Sixers ran out to an early 9-2 lead, Jazz guard Donovan Mitchell ran three straight pick-and-rolls with two-time Defensive Player of the Year Rudy Gobert. As the Stifle Tower screened Simmons (on the first two possessions) and Richardson (on the last one), Embiid hung back in the paint, willingly conceding an open mid-range jumper to ensure he could recover in case Mitchell passed to Gobert.
Mitchell took advantage of the open airspace, drilling three straight shots from between 16-19 feet.
In theory, the player defending Mitchell is supposed to fight through the screen, pressure Mitchell off the three-point line and contest his shot from behind. For whatever reason—whether it's early-season fatigue or poor communication—the Sixers have struggled in that department over the past few games.
A communication breakdown likely contributed to a Bojan Bogdanovic dagger late in Wednesday's game, too.
With Raul Neto defending Mitchell, Bogdanovic seemingly raced out to the perimeter to set a screen on him. But rather than actually make contact, he slipped the screen and dashed to the other end of the court.
However, both Neto and Harris—who was initially guarding Bogdanovic—went to trap Mitchell. The Jazz guard quickly swung the pass to his wide-open teammate, who knocked home a triple to extend Utah's lead to five points.
These defensive breakdowns contributed to frustrating, close-game losses. But for a Sixers team with title aspirations, it's far better to learn these lessons during a regular-season game in November compared to a playoff game in May or June.
Perhaps it's simply a matter of the Sixers' new players continuing to get accustomed to one another. Perhaps head coach Brett Brown will need to vary up his defensive coverages more frequently to keep opponents off-balance. Either way, the Sixers have 75 more opportunities to figure that out before the games really start to count.
As tempting as it may be to revert into Chicken Little mode after every loss, remember: The regular season is one giant science experiment for Brown and the Sixers. This is the time to figure out which players fit best with one another and which schemes do and don't work. Failure is the best teacher.
Barring catastrophic injuries, the Sixers are going to make the playoffs. They're likely to compete for home-court advantage throughout the Eastern Conference playoffs. Playing close games against good teams will only behoove them in the long run, even if it causes your blood pressure to boil on occasion in the meantime.
