
# iPhone 11 Pro review – is it worth the significant price difference? [Video]

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:50:56+00:00**

Author: **Jeff Benjamin**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/05/iphone-11-pro-review-video/)

After initially using the baseline iPhone 11 as my daily driver, I transitioned over to the iPhone 11 Pro Max in order to see if Apple’s top-of-the-line hardware was good enough to justify its price premium. As you’ll see in this hands-on iPhone 11 Pro review, I came away with a conclusion that largely mirrors last year’s efforts.
Like last year, I think it’s wise for the majority of users to opt for the entry-level iPhone, as that device will more than meet the needs of most customers who are looking to upgrade. However, there are a few use cases that warrant splurging for the iPhone 11 Pro or 11 Pro Max over the baseline model. Have a look at the full video review for the details.
First and foremost, be sure to read and watch our iPhone 11 review for an overall look at what these new devices have to offer. Mostly everything covered in our iPhone 11 review applies to the higher-end devices as well.
Our look at the iPhone 11 largely focused on the cameras, because that’s one of the main qualities that separates this generation of iPhones from their predecessors. With the iPhone 11 Pro, the camera functionality is even more impressive, thanks to the addition of a third camera on the rear — a telephoto lens primed for portraits, up-close shots, and lots of bokeh.
But alongside the obvious benefits of a third camera, there are several additional areas that you’ll want to consider when comparing these two devices…
Special thanks to Casetify for sponsoring 9to5Mac on YouTube. Get 20% off CASTEiFY’s cases for iPhone 11/11 Pro/11 Pro Max and more with code 209TO5MAC.
