
# JSCA brings in black soil from Odisha and Bihar to develop rich mix of pitch types

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:08:43+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/03/jsca-brings-in-black-soil-from-odisha-and-bihar-to-develop-rich-mix-of-pitch-types?utm_medium=rss)


        After MS Dhoni's advice of creating pitches of different types, JSCA has brought black soil from the Bolangir district in Odisha and the Mokama Tal in Bihar and mixed it with the local red soil to do the experiment. JSCA curator S.B Singh is delighted that the process is nearing completion.
      
Thanks to the rich mining resources that the eastern part of the country possesses, it is easy to understand that the soil type has been a cause of concern. With Jharkhand having a lot of red soil, due to the Eastern Ghat province and the presence of metamorphic rocks, they have brought in soils from Odisha and Bihar in order to create a rich mix of pitch types. JSCA brought black soil from Bolangir (Odisha) and Mokama Tal (Bihar) and mixed it with the local red soil to do the experiment.
“Since Jharkhand players had some issues on red clay pitches on tours to southern States, Dhoni had suggested that we should prepare such tracks for practice ahead of crucial matches. When we finally decided for it, we thought why not do some experiments,” JSCA curator S.B Singh was quoted as saying by Sportstar.
“We mixed Bolangir and Mokama soil with the red one at 60:40 ratio to see how these pitches behave. Also, we laid tracks of black soil from Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand apart from one of yellow soil. The grass is growing well and it’s a good indication.”
While the wicket is ready, Singh revealed that MS Dhoni will inaugurate the wicket in the presence of some age-group cricketers. 
“Dhoni will break a coconut and inaugurate the red clay pitch in the company of some age-group cricketers in about a week or so. These facilities will help all players as they will learn how to play on different surfaces,” said Singh.
