
# SSC MTS Result 2019 declared, answer key also released: Steps to download

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:27:00+00:00**

Author: **BS Web Team**

Original: [Business-Standard](https://www.business-standard.com/article/jobs/ssc-mts-result-2019-declared-date-today-get-direct-link-on-ssc-nic-in-know-important-details-119110500176_1.html)

SSC MTS 2019 Result: The Staff Selection Commission (SSC) on Tuesday declared the SSC MTS result for the first-stage exam. The result was announced today on the official SSC website ssc.nic.in. The answer key to the exam was alsdo released on the official website in the evening on Tuesday. The students who took the exam check thewir results and the answer key till December 4, 2019.SSC said in a notification: "Representations received from the candidates regarding Tentative Answer Keys were carefully examined and Answer Keys were suitably modified, wherever required, and finalised thereafter. The final Answer Keys have been used for evaluation of performance of candidates in the Examination."According to SSC, 2 million candidates took the SSC MTS exam, which was held from August 2 to August 22. The SSC MTS 2019 result was initially scheduled to be released on October 25, but it was delayed. With the delay in the first-stage exam result, SSC also rescheduled the second exam. Candidates who will qualify MTS Paper 1 will be eligible to appear for the second stage exam, which is scheduled to be held on November 24. The Commission would release category-wise, state/ union territory-wise cut off score list.

        How to download SSC MTS Result 2019:
      
1. Visit the SSC's official website - ssc.nic.in
2. On the homepage, click on "SSC MTS Result 2019" link
3. Enter your login credentials
4. SSC MTS Result 2019 will appear on the screen
5. Download and take a print out of the result for future reference
SSC MTS recruitment is being done to employ Multi Tasking Staff in various Ministries / Departments / Offices of the Government of India, in different States / Union Territories.
