
# Maa: The karta of my house, my role model

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/relationships/soul-curry/maa-the-karta-of-my-house-my-role-model/articleshow/71863635.cms)

My mother is 60 years of age. She married my father in the year 1984 and they were married for the last 35 years. She was the youngest of her 5 siblings and the favorite of my grand father. My grandfather was a senior government employee and a very nice person. he truly believed in education and hard work and did not differentiate between his sons and daughter when it came to matters of education.
My grandfather knew my mother's capability from a young age and hence sent her abroad to States back in the 1970s for her masters.
After completing her degree, she had the option of continuing her stay in the United States but she returned home to be with her family and took up a job in India. A couple of years later she met my dad and fell in love and married him. As time went by, my parents were happy.
My mother through all her hard work and vision started a successful garment business with my dad's help and life was good for them. She managed her business very well, cared for her husband and child and looked after her parents with a lot of love and affection. My grandparents were old and had a lot of illnesses, yet my mother gave them the best possible support, love and care. Being well taken care of, my grandparents were happy living with my mom and dad .
Post 2000, when the earthquake struck the state of Gujarat, my mom's business was effectively ruined. A couple of years earlier my grandparents had passed away. After which our lifestyle changed. Slowly my parents wealth depleted, and we sold our homes, jewelry, and whatever stock we had in our factories were also sold off. Perhaps the shock of the circumstances were such that my dad was highly affected by the change in curcumstances and he slowly slipped into depression.
My mother was the lone warrior in this battle as she had to deal with a grippling financial crisis, the failure of the business, creditors, my school fees, along with a lot of taunts from her in laws.
She sold insurance, worked in call centers, ran a college canteen, took up a job as a merchandiser with one of her suppliers as the circumstacnes and responsiblites forced her hand. My father helped her as much as he could and I would do whatever she asked of me to support her but she was the karta of her home.
Not once did she complain, or scream at me or my father. She has a lot of love and respect for my dad and knowing he was not a very communicative person, shielded him from the jarbs and insults from creditors and family members.
Towards the end of 2014, we finally migrated abroad and life changed for us financially. My mother by then had her kidneys functioning at 25%, had a bad knee and high blood pressure. Yet that did not stop her from getting up at 5.30 am in the morning, preparing tea and lunch from me and taking a 2-hour bus and train ride to her office to work. Her sacrifices and qualifications helped us move abroad.
By that time, I had also started working and with combined efforts of my mother, my dad and me, we were finally settled financially. Maybe God was not yet done testing my mother, and when we became well settled financially, my mother lost the most important piece of her life - her husband, my dad. In the last two years of my dad's life, he was bedridden, and I think subconsciously she knew she was losing him yet she always kept him cheerful, gave him every possible comfort and never shed a tear in front of him.
Today her motto in life is to live with my dad's memories which give her strength. Even I draw strength from her when I face any adverse situation. I truly salute her courage and aim to be like her in my life.

        
          -Contributed by Siddha e Pandya
        
      
