
# Coronation Street fans fear for Daniel as he refuses to attend wife Sinead's funeral

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:20:21+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/coronation-street-fans-fear-daniel-20829264)

Coronation Street viewers were worried about Daniel Osbourne, claiming he looked "unwell" as he finally made contact with dad Ken Barlow.
Daniel fled to Scotland with baby son Bertie in the wake of his wife Sinead Tinker's death, following a battle with cancer.
The grieving character needed some space, as planning his wife's funeral left him overhwelmed.
His dad begged him to return back to the Street in the latest episode, as the family continued to plan the funeral without him.
But Daniel shocked his loved ones, as he revealed no plans to be back in time for his wife's send off.
Ken was in tears as he heard his devastated son breaking down on the phone, refusing to return.
He later confided in son Peter Barlow fearing Daniel would regret missing the service.
Viewers felt the same, urging Daniel to return with baby son Bertie as others admitted fearing for the character.
Taking to Twitter , one fan said: "Omg, Daniel he looks so unwell!"
Another agreed: "Poor Daniel. He looks terrible."
Others hoped Daniel would change his mind and be there for the service to say goodbye to Sinead.
A fan wrote: "Daniel you need to come home."
Another said: "Someone please help Daniel #Corrie ."
A third agreed: "Please come back for Sinead’s funeral Daniel."

        Coronation Street airs Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays at 7:30pm and 8:30pm on ITV.
      
