
# Toronto Wolfpack confirm historic Sonny Bill Williams signing on £5m, two-year contract

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **James Whaling, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/james-whaling/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-league/breaking-toronto-wolfpack-confirm-historic-20834944)

Toronto Wolfpack have confirmed the signing of Sonny Bill Williams on a bumper two-year contract.
Cross-code superstar Sonny Bill, 34, will again make the switch to rugby league to play in Super League next season with the Canadian side.
Toronto sealed their place in the top flight with victory over Featherstone in the Million Pound Game last month and have now signalled their intent with the signing of Williams.
The New Zealander, who crashed out of the Rugby World Cup with the All Blacks at the semi-final stage having twice won the tournament previously, will earn in the region of £5million over the course of his contract making it the most lucrative in the history of either code.
“Toronto Wolfpack has established themselves as a multicultural and economic powerhouse, not only in the city but across the world," Williams said on joining the Wolfpack.
 
"The club has big ambitions and big goals. I want to be part of all this and do all I can to help reach those lofty goals. On the field, I’d like to bring high-quality play and do all I can for the betterment of the team.
"Off the field, I’d like to use my experience to mentor the young players and be helpful where I am needed. Super League will be a new challenge and one I’m looking forward to. It will be a new experience and one I’m ready to embrace.”
Toronto coach Brian McDermott added: "We have signed one of the highest-profile rugby players, if not sports stars in the world.
"He will enhance the global game of rugby by being in Toronto and certainly push the brand of the Wolfpack onto another level.
"The main point of excitement for our club is that we are signing a great Rugby League player who has the hunger to be successful in Super League much as he was in the NRL and Rugby Union.”
Australia coach Mal Meninga floated the possibility of a tour match between the Kangaroos and Toronto prior to next year's Ashes Tests on the back of the Williams signing.
He said: "Sonny Bill Williams will provide an immediate impact for rugby league in the Northern Hemisphere and for the development of rugby in North America.
"When the Kangaroos tour England in 2020 – we will look forward to playing a warm-up game against the Wolfpack as it would create a lot of excitement for the sport.”
In two previous stints in rugby league, Sonny Bill won the NRL with Canterbury Bulldogs and Sydney Roosters.
