
# Bengaluru cyclists show strength in numbers for the ‘Cycle to Work’ initiative

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Reya Mehrotra**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/bengaluru-cyclists-show-strength-in-numbers-for-the-cycle-to-work-initiative/articleshow/71912729.cms)

Bengaluru techies are setting an example by ditching their motor vehicles and switching to cycles instead. As many as 30 techies working in leading companies have signed up as ‘bicycle ambassadors’ to promote the ‘Cycle to Work’ initiative and to encourage their colleagues. And these ambassadors are proving true to their name by riding to work, in heavy rains and on potholed roads. One of the first cycle ambassadors in the city, Shilpi Sahu, cycles 23 km every day to work and back home and has been doing so for the past nine years. She has now mobilised more than 100 employees in her company to take up cycling. Shilpi, a resident of Sarjapur Road and employee of Qualcomm, in Whitefield said, “I cycle every day from Sarjapura Road to Whitefield in just 45 minutes. Commuting in a car takes hours. Thanks to the enthusiasm the employees have shown in our firm, we now have proper cycle stands. Those who stay near the office always take their cycles. We have no cycling infrastructure here but a number of shortcuts around the lake makes the travel easier. I carry a helmet, a face mask and a raincoat for safety. A number of colleagues are now even participating in weekend bike trips and exploring the city.”
It is much better to cycle during rains than to travel on jammed and potholed roads ­
–Karthik Ranganathan, techieCycle Ambassador Karthik Ranganathan, Product Engineering Manager at Texas Instruments, said, “Though we have been encouraging our employees to take up cycling for over a year now, the ‘Cycle to Work’ program was formally inducted in our only company 2-3 months ago. Since then, around 70-80 people have begun cycling to work daily and on Cycle to Work days, the number crosses 150. To encourage taking up cycling, we have provided cycle stands, shower facilities and lockers for spare clothes. Tools to fix cycles are also available on the campus. If someone stays far, we encourage them to take the Metro and the commute via Yulu bikes from the station to work. We also planning to formally recognise those who cycle consistently.” Karthik who cycles every day from Indiranagar to CV Raman Nagar carries a raincoat and a bag cover with him during rainy days. “It is much better to cycle during rains than to travel on jammed and potholed roads,” he said. Tandava Krishna Popuri, Software Engineering Director at Dell and a cycle ambassador of his company, has been cycling for the last nine years and agrees with Karthik about biking in the rains. “Bengaluru rains do not last for more than half an hour so whenever it rains, I wait under a roof and then resume my commute. It is a good feeling when you ride past those stuck in jams with your cycle and reach faster than those travelling by cars. When I had started cycling nine years ago, I was apprehensive but I have learned my way around and encourage everyone to use a cycle to commute. I have helped around 20 employees in my company to take up cycling,” said the 46-year-old.
Cycle Ambassador Karthik Ranganathan
He added, “I own an Audi but I think cars are only good for outstation travel.” Cycle ambassador Prakash Bhagavan, who is an engineering manager at Intel, said, “I have been cycling to work every day for the past 10 years from Marathahalli to the Old Airport Road and reach in exactly 22 minutes, as opposed to sitting in the car for 35-40 minutes. It is a good way to stay fit. We have around 300 cyclists in our company and 50 of them cycle to work every day.” Bicycle Mayor Sathya Sankaran, who initiated ‘Cycle to Work’ program around two years ago, pointed out that despite good response, The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike has not shown any initiative to encourage the movement. He said, “Since this has been a success, we are now initiating ‘Bicycle Champions’ in schools and colleges and ‘Bicycle Councillors’ in each ward to promote cycling. Their roles will be similar to that of the ambassadors. We are also pushing for cycling infrastructure to be included in the 2020 Corporation election manifesto. Except on Cubbon Road, there is no cycling infrastructure.” On who can become an ambassador, he said, “Anyone who cycles regularly can become an ambassador. We ask them three questions - why they want to become an ambassador, since how long have they been cycling and for their social media handles as proof.”
