
# Real Valladolid score 3 in win against Mallorca with a 3-0 at José Zorrilla

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:24:05+00:00**

Author: **SPORT.es**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/laliga/real-valladolid-score-3-in-win-against-mallorca-with-a-3-0-at-jose-zorrilla-7712596)

Valladolid stunt Mallorca 3-0 on Sunday at José Zorrilla. Real Valladolid faced the match with a desire to make up their league after losing 5-1 against Barcelona while Mallorca had to settle for a draw in the last match played of the competition. As of today, Real Valladolid and Mallorca occupy position 9th (17 points) and 17th (11 points) respectively after playing a total of 12 matches.
Good start of the game for Real Valladolid, with a goal from Joaquín Fernández just before the end of the 45 minutes, finalising the first half with a 1-0.
The second half started in favour of Real Valladolid, thanks to a good early penalty goal from Enes Unal in the 50th minute. Later, Real Valladolid scored again and increased their advantage thanks to a goal from Sandro Ramírez in the 90th minute just before the end of the second half, which saw the second half to a 3-0.
As for substitutions, both coaches used full substitutions. For Valladolid, Rubén Alcaraz, Sandro Ramírez and Antonito came on for Míchel Herrero, Sergi Guardiola and Joaquín Fernández, while Mallorca brought on Aleix Febas, Ariday Cabrera and Abdón to replace Pedraza, Takefusa Kubo and Salva Sevilla.
The referee booked Míchel Herrero, Joaquín Fernández, Sandro Ramírez, Enes Unal and Rubén Alcaraz from Valladolid, while for Mallorca Salva Sevilla, Martín Valjent, Joan Sastre and Aleix Febas saw a yellow card as well.
Real Valladolid will be playing against Alavés at away stadium, while Mallorca will face Villarreal at home stadium.
