
# Michigan man accused of funneling trade secrets to brother linked to Iran's nuclear weapons industry

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:08:16+00:00**

Author: **Caitlin Yilek**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/michigan-man-accused-of-funneling-trade-secrets-to-brother-linked-to-irans-nuclear-weapons-industry)

An Iranian-born Michigan engineer is accused of stealing confidential documents from his employer and emailing them to his brother, who is linked to Iran’s nuclear weapons industry, according to a criminal complaint unsealed Wednesday.
Amin Hasanzadeh, who has lawful permanent resident status in the United States, is alleged to have hidden his affiliation with the Iranian military and coordinated with his brother to steal sensitive, confidential data about an aerospace industry supercomputer.
It remains unclear whether the information Hasanzadeh is alleged to have passed on to his brother, who the FBI says has worked for Iranian companies “that are of proliferation concern,” would help Iran with its nuclear weapons program.
Iran announced this week that it would begin injecting uranium gas into more than 1,000 centrifuges after President Trump abandoned the Obama-era nuclear deal and imposed harsh sanctions on the country.
“We don’t have any concerns that there is a current threat to the safety of the United States,” FBI Special Agent Mara Schneider told the Detroit News.
Hasanzadeh, 42, is charged with interstate transportation of stolen property and fraud for allegedly lying about whether he served in the Iranian military.
Before Hasanzadeh began working for an unidentified company in Michigan as a senior hardware engineer in January 2015, he communicated with his brother, Sina Hasanzadeh, about the job.
“I believe, based on my training and experience, that Hasanzadeh was sending these emails (prior to employment) to identify that if he was hired as a hardware engineer, he would have access to technologies and projects of interest to Sina and/or Sina’s Iranian employers,” Special Agent Richard Foran wrote in the criminal complaint.
Hasanzadeh began “covertly transferring” confidential documents to his brother via his personal email account less than a week after he started working for the company, the complaint alleges. The “transfers occurred on a regular basis” and continued until June 2016, according to the complaint.
“Victim Company A received confidential, proprietary and trade secret documents from others, including its customers and collaborative partners. A senior company official advised that any unauthorized disclosure or theft of partner company documents and information protected under an NDA could be ‘catastrophic,’” Foran wrote.
Hasanzadeh and other employees were prohibited from using their personal email accounts to transfer company data and had nondisclosure agreements with the company.
A judge ordered Hasanzadeh to be temporarily detained until a bond hearing Friday in Detroit.
