
# Cross River to launch rice mill by December, set to boost local rice production 

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:07:27+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Olaoluwa**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/04/cross-river-to-launch-rice-mill-by-december-set-to-boost-local-rice-production/)

The Cross River State Government has unveiled plans to build an ultra-modern rice mill, expected to be ready by December of this year.
This disclosure was made by Francesco Antonio Lucarelli, the contractor engaged to deliver the rice mill project who also serves as the General Manager of AA Universal Agro Industries Ltd.

        [READ MORE: 
        Like Nigeria, Ghana moves to stop rice, poultry imports]
      
Capacity of the Mill: According to Lucarelli, an experienced contractor in the business, the Cross River Rice Mill boasts of a storage capacity of more than 6500 metric tonnes, which makes it one of the biggest in Nigeria.
Giving more details about the project, he explained that all the equipment required for the construction of the mill had been made available since April this year. He also noted that the project had approached advanced stages.
Friday Aruko Odey, a former Special Adviser to the Cross River governor on projects, disclosed that the rice mill would produce certain varieties of rice, create more opportunities as well as boost the revenue of the state.
The project is expected to engage more than 20,000 employees who would work on three shifts, the former aide explained. He also confirmed the project would be completed by the end of the year.
In a recent Nairametrics article, rice farmers assured the general public that a 50kg bag of rice will sell for N9,000 in three weeks’ time, after recording a bumper harvest this year. They also promised that more rice would flood the market thereby forcing market prices downward, against the continual hoarding that raised the price to about N26,000.
Aminu Goronyo, the President, Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), confirmed the development. He said: “We have a bumper harvest that we never had before. We have never had the type of bumper harvests that we recorded this year.”
He also promised that the increase in the prices of rice will no longer persist.

        [READ ALSO: Scarcity of imported rice hits major markets, as dealers pack local rice in foreign bags
        ]
      
