
# The First Red Dead Redemption 2 PC Mods Have Already Arrived

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:26:13+00:00**

Author: **Alistair Jones**

Original: [Kotaku UK](https://www.kotaku.co.uk/2019/11/05/the-first-red-dead-redemption-2-pc-mods-have-already-arrived)

As I write this, Red Dead Redemption 2 is still a few hours away from its release on PC, but that apparently hasn’t stopped a group of modders from getting their hands on it. Earlier this morning, collective RedDeadModders released what they claim to be the first mod for the game, transforming protagonist Arthur Morgan into The Joker.
Since the uploading of that first mod, another has already popped up on Nexusmods (via PC Gamer). The ‘RDR2 Photorealistic Reshade’ claims to “enhance colours, shadows, tonemapping, and sharpness.” Given how good the game already looks on PC (and how powerful a rig you’ll need to run it) I’m not sure how necessary that is, but it’s interesting to see how well-established the modding community already appears to be.
Over on their website, the RedDeadModders claim to have a whole host of mods in the works. If you fancy a futuristic take on the Old West, how about transforming Arthur into the Terminator and giving him Han Solo’s blaster? Or if you’re still feeling spooky, what about assets from the original Red Dead’s Undead Nightmare?
With the game not actually out yet, there’s no word on when these new arrivals might arrive. That said, there’s also no information on how to install the mods when you’ve downloaded them, because the game isn’t out yet. That raises questions as to how any of these developers got their hands on the modding tools in the first place, so it might be worth waiting a few hours before getting too excited.
