
# US Grand Prix Drives 50% Boost In F1 Sponsorship From American Brands

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Christian Sylt**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/csylt/2019/11/02/us-grand-prix-drives-50-boost-in-f1-sponsorship-from-american-brands/)

American brands have boosted their sponsorship of Formula One by 48.3% to an estimated $118.5 million annually since the début of the United States Grand Prix in 2012 according to new research.F1 has a long history of racing in the US and its first Grand Prix took place there in 1959 at Sebring. It failed to find its feet and over the next 50 years the race was held at five locations across the country from Phoenix to Watkins Glen.
Despite these maneuvers, F1’s popularity in the US surged thanks to the involvement of superstar American drivers Mario Andretti and Eddie Cheever. Their success drove F1 to host multiple races in the US peaking at three in 1982. To this day, it is the highest number of races ever held by F1 in one country in a single season. There was an infamous Grand Prix in the car park of Caesars Palace in Las Vegas as well as races on the streets of Long Beach and Detroit.
Andretti retired from F1 at the end of the 1982 season and US interest in the sport began to reverse. It reached a low in 2005 when just six cars competed in the US Grand Prix at Indianapolis due to tire safety concerns. Fans threw trash onto the track and ticket refunds were issued. Two years later F1 put the brakes on the US Grand Prix and left the country without a race.
After a four-year absence the US Grand Prix returned in 2012 at the first-ever purpose-built F1 track in America. The design of the 3.4-mile Circuit of the Americas (COTA) in Austin, Texas, was inspired by some of the world’s most beloved race tracks and soon became a fan favorite. Last year alone it attracted 263,160 spectators giving it the fourth-highest attendance on the calendar.
This put F1 on the radar of the NBC Sports Network which took over from the former SPEED Channel as its US broadcaster in 2013. It revved up interest in F1 by giving flagship races airtime on sister network NBC and over the five years of its contract the live Grand Prix audience grew by 65% to 538,114 viewers. Last year ESPN took the wheel and the number of viewers continued to rise.
In 2018 each race had an average of 547,722 viewers and over the 18 races which have taken place so far this year that total has increased to 671,000. In has driven ESPN to extend its broadcast contract through to 2022 and has boosted F1’s fortunes from sponsorship.
This author has unique insight into this through leading a team which has been analyzing F1’s sponsorship sector for 15 years. Fees for every sponsorship deal since 2004 have been derived from hundreds of interviews cross-referenced with thousands of company filings. Values are based on the size, location and number of decals as well as other benefits received by the sponsor and the performance of the team at the time the deal was signed.
The results have been compiled in the new Formula Money Sponsorship Database, the first-ever searchable archive of F1 sponsorship values. The data can be searched by sponsor, team, sector, deal value or country of origin and the results are shown in tables and on user-generated charts.
The database not only covers every team sponsorship deal since 2004 but also all of the league partnerships, race title sponsorships, trackside advertising, and team owner spending during that time. All together it covers more than 6,000 deals from 1,066 companies which paid a total of $30 billion.
The database shows that since the US Grand Prix returned to the calendar, the annual total of F1 sponsorship from US-based brands has surged by $38.6 million to $118.5 million in 2018. In contrast, F1’s total annual sponsorship tally has crashed by 15.3% to $998.9 million over the same period.
The drop has been driven by the high-octane cost as the average price of a team sponsorship deal came to an eye-watering $3.3 million last year. This exclusivity has a halo effect on F1 sponsors in a booming market but when times are tough it stands out as an easy way to costs, especially in face of a growing number of cheaper alternatives.
Testimony to this, Claire Williams, deputy boss of the Williams F1 team told us in 2016: “I talk to people that are trying to find sponsorships in different championships and to different rights holders and it’s tough. I think the rise of social media hasn’t helped because there are so many different ways and means by which brands can get their messaging out there where you don’t have to pay millions to get it.”
In contrast, last year alone, sponsorship from US brands accelerated by 13.8% driven largely by tech titan Dell Technologies becoming a partner of McLaren at an estimated annual payment of $10 million. It wasn’t the biggest spender from the US though as that accolade goes to oil giant ExxonMobil which pays an estimated $20 million annually to sponsor Red Bull Racing.
The growth potential in the US explains why F1’s owner Liberty Media has its eye on more races there. In the run up to this year’s US Grand Prix, which takes place tomorrow, Liberty announced that it hopes to host a new race around the Hard Rock stadium in Miami from 2021. However, the plan recently ran into a roadblock when local lawmakers voted in favor of holding a public hearing into whether the Grand Prix should get the green light.
Previous plans for a street race in downtown Miami ended up in the pits due to opposition from local residents and it remains to be seen if the new location will help it get to the finish line. F1 appears to have a lot riding on it.
Liberty got the keys to the sport in a $4.6 billion takeover in 2017 and soon began to make sweeping changes. First it replaced long-time boss Bernie Ecclestone with 21st Century Fox vice chairman Chase Carey and within days he told CNBC how he believed the business would be transformed.
When asked which of F1’s revenue streams had the greatest growth potential, Carey forecast that “probably the one that grows the fastest, you know, is probably sponsorships. Realistically today, we have a one-man sponsorship operation. There are many categories we’re not even selling into. Putting an organization in place that enables us to execute on that probably is the most immediate impact.”
Liberty boosted F1’s sponsorship team which partly fuelled a $47 million increase in costs to $1.3 billion in 2017 followed by a 6% rise last year. The new recruits don’t appear to have paid off.
In an interview with the Financial Times in November last year Carey said “the perception was just there are sponsors waiting...They were lined up out there and as soon as we had somebody to go call on them, they were just going to sign up. The world’s not that simple.”
He recently added that “the challenge in the sponsorship world is probably tougher than it was a few years ago. For anybody who is not Google or Facebook, the broader advertising world is more challenging...I think it is fair to say that the sponsorship world has probably been more challenging than we would have expected it to be a couple of years ago.” Time will tell whether the US can provide the boost he is looking for.
