
# Apple series For All Mankind isn’t thrilled by America’s role in the space race

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:02:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Liptak**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/1/20941718/for-all-mankind-review-apple-tv-plus-ronald-moore)

When Apollo 17 lifted off from the lunar surface in 1972, NASA received what would become a persistent question: when would the United States return to the Moon?
Over the years, the agency and various presidents have promised a triumphant return, not just to pick up rocks, but to stay or use as a stepping-stone to other destinations within our solar system. Science-fiction writers have added to the possibilities, imagining what might have happened had the space race continued. That’s the premise of Ronald D. Moore’s new series, For All Mankind, depicting an alternate history in which the US government never abandons the project after the Soviet Union beats it to the Moon.
As one of the debut projects from Apple’s new streaming service Apple TV Plus, alongside fantasy epic See and the YA-adjacent Dickinson, For All Mankind serves as both excellent television, as well as a look back at how the space race might have turned out had the agency been more inclusive.
[Ed. note: mild spoilers ahead for the first five episodes of For All Mankind]
The US and USSR found themselves locked in a competitive battle for space starting in 1957 with the launch of Sputnik. In 1961, the USSR once again showed up the US by launching cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin aboard Vostok 1, and again in 1963 when Valentina Tereshkova became the first woman to fly in space. But after the USSR faced several catastrophic launches and the death of its chief spaceflight architect, Sergei Korolev, the US gained footing with the Gemini and Apollo programs. The US maintained steady progress until Apollo 11 touched down on the lunar surface. (If you want a really good explainer, I’d highly recommend checking out The Washington Post’s podcast Moonrise, which delves into how and why the space race took off.)
For All Mankind extrapolates on what would have happened if the USSR left its foot on the gas and the lunar program succeeded. The answer? An endless space race, one that sustained competition between the US and USSR.
The show opens with a montage of John F. Kennedy saying inspirational things about the US space program, and the challenges that it represents. Then Moore tweaks our timeline: just weeks before the United States lands on the Moon with Apollo 11, the Soviet Union surprised the world with a successful landing of its own. NASA’s mission controllers and astronauts watch in stunned silence as a Cosmonaut walks on the moon, claiming the moment in the name of the Communist movement.
The landing prompts the US to reexamine the drive to get to space. Astronaut Edward Baldwin (Altered Carbon’s Joel Kinnaman) takes the news particularly hard, and calls out NASA’s administration and Werner Von Braun’s cautious approach to space travel. He gets booted from his assignment, Apollo 15, but his antics attract the attention of some ambitious politicians and administrators, who get him to testify in congress that NASA all but allowed the USSR to get there first, and that the country needs a far more aggressive approach to space.
He gets his wish — he’s reinstated on Apollo 15, and Von Braun is forced out. The move is a timely one: after a far more hair-raising Apollo 11 mission (Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin almost don’t make it off after a rough landing), the Soviets land a second time, this time with a female cosmonaut stepping out onto the surface. In response, President Richard Nixon orders that NASA begin training a team of female astronauts. When US intelligence believes that the Soviets might be planning a permanent camp on the Moon, NASA makes a lunar base a top priority.
Other plot threads feel embedded for future episodes or seasons (Moore and his writers have apparently plotted out seven). One persistent plot follows a young hispanic girl, Aleida Rosales (Olivia Trujillo), whose father works as a janitor in Mission Control, and is inspired by the inclusion of women in the program. Another thread follows the astronaut’s spouses as they worry about the fate of their husbands and wives in space.
Amidst this year’s 50th anniversary celebrations of the Apollo 11 landing, space historians and writers have highlighted one particular element from NASA’s past: the exclusion of women and people of color from the astronaut corps, and the the ties to German rocket scientists who fled to the US after World War II. Writers like Mary Robinette Kowal have pointed out that for decades, space was a frontier only open to white men. Moore’s show highlights the challenges that women faced in the 1960s work office environment. When Von Braun’s protege Margo Madison (Wrenn Schmidt) is promoted to Mission Control, she’s harassed by her male colleagues. Astronaut Gordo Stevens (Michael Dorman) has an affair while away from home — putting considerable strain on his marriage, especially after his wife, Tracy (Sarah Jones), was selected as one of the female astronaut candidates. These themes ring particularly true today, and it’s something that seems to be a bit of a connective thread between several of Apple’s productions. Apple’s The Morning Show also deals with workplace sexism and women’s empowerment.
For All Mankind feels like Moore’s rebuttal to America’s mythologization of the space race and the choice to only send men back to the moon. He’s pushed at gender boundaries within genre television with projects such Battlestar Galactica and Outlander, but the new series pushes harder. Moore’s show folds in many of the arguments that writers like Robinette Kowal have made: his astronauts contend with the same challenges, from the technical (engineers realizing that the spaceship isn’t designed to allow female astronauts to use the bathroom) to cultural (widespread resentment and resistance to women becoming astronauts.)
Early in the second episode, “He Built the Saturn V,” the show lionizes Werner Von Braun (Colm Feore), then reverses course midway through. While testifying before a senate committee, enterprising Representative Charles Sandman (Saul Rubinek) pulls out images of the Mittelwerk rocket factory and asks him point-blank how he could have ignored the enslaved workforce that produced his V-2 ballistic missiles. Von Braun deflates, and despite his sputtering excuses, he’s forced out of the agency. It’s a pointed argument that flips history on its head, asking a question that should have been asked in the late 1940s.
All of that provides plenty of material for Moore to work with, and with so much happening, the first half of this season comes off as rushed and disjointed. Characters are built up in one episode, only to be largely ignored in the next, while scenarios that could command an entire episode or even a season are crammed through in minutes or in a single episode, like the entire Apollo 11 mission and its near-disastrous landing, or the entire training regime of the group of female astronaut candidates. As a result, it’s harder to relate to individual characters because we’re only with them for a short while. Hopefully, that’ll change with time and additional seasons. As it stands right now, it’s a show that could stand to slow down from its breakneck pace to focus on building up its sometimes-indistinguishable characters.
For All Mankind is a series impeccably dialed in for inspirational, heartwarming drama, cherry-picked from the likes of movies like The Right Stuff, Hidden Figures, First Man, and Captain Marvel. It’s impossible to miss the moments when NASA’s female staffers stopping dead in their tracks when they realize that the agency will bring on a cohort of female astronauts, or watching as they line up to applaud when newly minted astronaut Molly Cobb (Sonya Walger) marches down the gantry on her way to fly on the Apollo 15 mission.
The space race is, after all, an inspirational story, and with the benefit of 20/20 hindsight, it’s easy to dial in the exact moments that make up what would have been a feel-good story. It’s a history that might have been, and it’s a pity that it didn’t turn out that way.
The first three episodes of For All Mankind are now available of on Apple TV Plus.
