
# 6 Foods You Can Eat on Your Period, and 4 Foods You Need to Avoid

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/inspiration-girls-stuff/6-foods-you-can-eat-on-your-period-and-4-foods-you-need-to-avoid-794666/)

Women’s nutritional needs change throughout the menstrual cycle, and hormone fluctuation isn’t the only reason for this. They also lose essential minerals and vitamins through bleeding. In order to restore these losses, experts recommend a balanced diet in accordance with their periods. Certain products can help you to maintain a healthy level of elements and can combat conditions like cramps, swelling, headaches, nausea, and fatigue.
At Bright Side, we decided to investigate what products you should eat and avoid during your period in order to benefit your health.
Iron is the mineral you lose most during menstrual bleeding. Broccoli will help you to compensate for the loss. Besides iron, broccoli is rich in fiber, magnesium, and potassium which will help to reduce bloating, fix digestion and relax the muscles if you suffer from cramps.
Bananas might be your best choice for snacking during your period. These fruits are full of potassium, magnesium, and fiber. They will help you to manage irregular bowel movements, diarrhea, and cravings for extra snacks.
If you need an excuse to eat more chocolate, here’s a great one. Dark chocolate contains plenty of healthy minerals such as iron, magnesium, antioxidants, and flavanols. The latter can benefit blood flow and relax blood vessels. Not to mention chocolate’s magical quality of boosting your mood!
Salmon should be included in any diet that is considered healthy because it contains healthy omega-3 fatty acids and is a rich source of protein. Eat salmon during your period to reduce inflammation, ease cramps, and regulate the menstrual cycle.
Ginger is good to control inflammation but it also will help you to reduce menstrual pain. Add fresh ginger to your tea if you suffer from abdominal discomfort.
Eat more fruits in order to increase your vitamin intake and reduce sugar cravings during your period. Citrus fruits are especially good. Besides vitamins, they contain a lot of fiber and water, which will keep your body hydrated and your digestion on track. Moreover, citrus fruits are good to alleviate nausea and other unpleasant conditions related to menstruation.They can also reduce the period flow if you bleed heavily.
You should avoid dairy products if you experience constant cramps and belly pain. Milk contains lactose, a specific type of sugar that some people have difficulty digesting. Additionally, lactose can cause bloating, stomach pain, and nausea — all things you might already have because of your period.
Your favorite snacks might improve your mood but they also contribute to bloating, gassiness, and inflammation because of the amount of refined sugar they contain. Your body is already going through enough trouble losing blood and vital minerals. In this case, you should steer clear of artificial sugar in favor of the natural kind you’d get from fruit.
Studies show that consumption of caffeine on your period can actually prolong its duration and in some cases, even bring on amenorrhoea, the absence of menstruation. In addition, caffeine escalates premenstrual syndrome. In case you tend to suffer from this, you should avoid drinking coffee before and after your period.
Eating spicy food can result in additional distress in your stomach. However, if you choose wisely, some spices might actually be useful for your body during this complicated time. For example, fresh chili is famous for its anti-inflammatory effects, and saffron cures an ailing digestive system.
What other foods help you to combat the unpleasant side effects related to your period? Which products proved to be useless? Share your tips with us in the comments.
Preview photo credit Depositphotos.com, Depositphotos.com Illustrated by Daniil Shubin for BrightSide.me
