
# Everton vs Tottenham odds: Best bets for Sunday's Premier League and Championship games

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Hankin, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/alex-hankin/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/everton-tottenham-betting-odds-tips-20793823)

Harry Kane’s rising like a lion after slumber - back him to roar again at Goodison.
The England ace’s re-emergance after injury blight continues – and Kane has scored EIGHT goals in his last four run outs against Everton (4.30pm).
Ignore the Carabao Cup – many do – and Everton are W3 D1 L6 this season. I make them about five points ‘down’, given the fixture list.
A disappointing tally for boss Marco Silva, who got to renegotiate Everton’s squad this summer, shuffling several hundred million pounds worth of livestock in and out.
Somehow it’s brought home an even worse deal than he started with.
Still, a No.10 source reports that Donald Trump rates Silva as “the greatest Mexican soccerballer of all time”, so, you know, early days.
While we wait, punt Kane ‘anytime’ at 6/5 (Unibet, 888sport) – a small price but big on his stats – and nibble the general 11/2 that he ‘scores two or more’.
Roy Hodgson could order his Crystal Palace lads to “park the charabanc” when Leicester roll up (2pm).
Palace now employ youth liason workers in the dressing room to translate some of the wise old owl’s pre-decimilisation patter.
They strip out all his references to Flanagan and Allen, thre’penny bits and going for tongue sandwich at the Lyons Cornerhouse.
Longshot king James Maddison can be the Foxes’ winkle pin - he’s flying right now, and the 4/1 ‘anytime scorer’ is good value, even in old money.
In the Championship, Charlton can use their heads to upset high-flying Preston North End at lunchtime (12pm).
The Addicks’ discipline stats are in keeping with a blood-and-guts style, but their promotion triumph last season was defined by cool, shrewd set-piece analysis.
Dead-ball scenarios are a Preston weak spot too, so big nuisance Naby Sarr is a likeable longshot poke at the general 14/1 ‘anytime scorer’.

        Last week: Winners at 20/1 & 20/3 place, 19/10, and 21/10
      
