
# Ojukwu’s widow slams Gov Obiano for boycotting husband’s memorial lecture

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:29:54+00:00**

Author: **Agency Report**

Original: [Premium Times Nigeria](https://www.premiumtimesng.com/regional/ssouth-east/361006-ojukwus-widow-slams-gov-obiano-for-boycotting-husbands-memorial-lecture.html)

Bianca Ojukwu, wife of the late ex-Biafra war lord, Chukwuemeka Ojukwu, has expressed reservation over absence of Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra at the second memorial lecture of her husband.
She spoke during the annual lecture at the Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University (COOU), Igbariam, Anambra State on Monday.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Obiano was represented at the event by his deputy, Nkem Okeke.
Mrs Ojukwu, who spoke shortly after the memorial lecture by Kingsley Muoghalu, a former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), said Mr Obiano was one of the greatest beneficiaries of Ojukwu’s legacy.
”Tell Obiano that there is no evil spirit in the venue of Ojukwu memorial lecture.
“This is the second time the event is holding and Obiano doesn’t want to attend by himself,” Mrs Ojukwu said.
She called on the governor not to erode the legacy of her late husband especially regarding All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA).
She thanked former Governor Peter Obi for renaming the state University after Mr Ojukwu who was truly a hero in life and death.
Mr Okeke said Mr Obiano was absent at the event due to other official engagements.
“It is unfortunate that Obiano has not attended the memorial lecture since it started last year, but that is not to say that he will not attend.
“The governor still has time in office and could still attend in future,” he said.
Mr Muoghalu. whose lecture was titled: Ndigbo in the contemporary Nigerian politics, problems, prospects and way forward,” said the Igbo people must be given equal treatment like other tribes.
Mr Muoghalu regretted that since the Nigeria/Biafra civil war, the effect had held the nation backward due to inability of the leaders to address the matters arising.
“I suggest that key actors during the war like retired Gen. Yakubu Gowon should speak to heal the wounds to ensure lasting peace,” he said.
Former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, who chaired the event called for restructuring of the country and introduction of state police.
He said restructuring and de-centralisation of the police were key to addressing the mirage of problems plaguing the nation.
(NAN)
