
# Motorcycle Live returns to the NEC – here’s how to get tickets

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:24:20+00:00**

Author: **Scott Dickinson, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/scott-dickinson/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/whats-on-news/motorcycle-live-returns-nec--17142540)

Strap on your helmets because the UK’s largest motorcycle show rides back into Birmingham next month with even more attractions for the entire family.
The biking exhibition, in association with Bikesure Insurance, proved very popular last year pulling in 103,702 fans and over 40 of the world’s leading manufacturers.
This year’s attendance is set to spike with the introduction of brand new content for the little ones. This includes the Arenacross Toddler’s experience for kids too young for an electric bike, but still want to get involved. The show is also introducing a Live Treasure Hunt that will encourage under 10s to explore the show, answering questions and winning prizes.
Motorcycle Live has notoriously always had family at heart, ensuring the day of biking is a thrill for people of all ages. This year 4-12 year olds can get in gear and ride an electric bike on a learner-friendly track. Those aged seven or over can try out OSET machines in the ACU Try Trials.
However, the Moto-Cirque Arena proves the main attraction for most families, showcasing professional riders performing incredible aerial FMX stunts. The neon spectacular remains a treat for the senses, and motorheads across the UK can't wait to see it.
The Social Hub is also set to reappear following its overwhelming success last year, inviting attendees to meet their favourite moto-vloggers, bloggers and media personalities. The space is theirs to do what they please, so get ready to creatively interact with some of your online icons!
With all of this, incredible competitions and even cheaper parking than 2018’s show (£10 when booked in advance and £12 on the door), the exhibition is unmissable.
Motorcycle Live runs from 16th-24th November 2019 at the NEC, Birmingham.
With free entry for kids under five and just £1.00 entry for 6-16 year olds (excluding admin fee), other tickets are priced at £10.80/ £12.00/£17.55/£19.50/£25.00 (excluding admin fee).
They can be purchased now from The Ticket Factory official bookings page here!
