
# Man accused of storing swords had interest in Gladiator movies, court told

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/02/news/man-accused-of-storing-swords-had-interest-in-gladiator-movies-court-told-1754377/)

A MAN accused of storing swords, axes and knives with explosives and ammunition at his home built a collection due to an interest in The Lord of the Rings and Gladiator movies, the High Court has heard.
Robert Templeton (33) also claimed chemicals found alongside industrial quantities of sugar and suspected pipe bomb component parts were because of his enthusiasm for making rockets and pyrotechnics.
Together with his 31-year-old classroom assistant wife Natasha, he faces charges connected to the seizure of around 130 items from their Cladytown Road property in Glarryford, near Ballymena on July 5.
Despite previous reports that the couple were allegedly stockpiling food for an "end times" scenario, a judge was told Templeton is believed to have hoarded goods legitimately purchased online.
Based on a report from a consultant psychiatrist, prosecution counsel Kate McKay described the defendant's behaviour as "eccentric".
Templeton was granted bail on conditions including a ban on acquiring anything over the internet.
He is charged with offences including possessing explosives in suspicious circumstances and with intent to endanger life, possessing ammunition with intent, having documents useful to terrorism, and preparation of terrorist acts.
Alleged component parts for multiple Improvised Explosive Devices, chemicals including ammonium nitrate, and ball-bearings were found during searches at his home.
Quantities of 9mm ammunition, shotgun cartridges, a machine gun barrel, swords, knives, axes, knuckle dusters, a crossbow and a large number of power tools were also seized.
Mrs McKay said police found a publication called the US Army Improvised Munitions Handbook.
A previous court was told Natasha Templeton - who is already on bail - denied knowing the contents of any of the packages bought online.
During interviews her husband claimed many of the items were ordered but never opened, while others had been purchased from a shop in Belfast.
"He said the swords found were part of a collection and that he was interested in films using swords, for example The Lord of the Rings and Gladiator," Mrs McKay submitted.
Defence counsel argued that Templeton bought goods from eBay and other legal sites, rather than going onto the dark web.
