
# Government Forms 'Climate Change Citizens' Assembly'

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:19:22+00:00**

Author: **Victoria Friedman**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2019/11/02/govt-forms-climate-assembly-uk-after-pressure-from-eco-extremist-group-extinction-rebellion/)

The government will send invitations at random to 30,000 people from across the country, but only 110 who reply will be selected to sit at the Climate Assembly UK summits in Birmingham. The invitations are due to arrive on Britons’ doormats on Wednesday.
Backed by a cross-party group of MPs, the plan was agreed by six major government committees to find out how the electorate wants to deal with alleged man-made climate change. The assembly will advise on how to reduce UK carbon emissions to net-zero by 2050 — a target former Prime Minister Theresa May committed the country to in June.
The government launched the citizens’ assembly before the dissolution of parliament so that the next leadership can review its findings in the new term. The meetings will happen on four weekends between late January and early March, and topics will include household energy use and transport.
Climate Assembly UK will cost £520,000, according to The Guardian, with taxpayers footing £120,000 of the bill while the rest will be covered by the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation and the European Climate Foundation.
Rachel Reeves MP, chairman of the Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) Committee, said in comments reported by The Telegraph: “Adopting the net-zero target was a major milestone for the UK, reflecting the strong cross-party support for action on climate change.
“We now need to set out a clear roadmap for the actions to achieve net-zero. It’s very clear that we will all need to play a part in meeting this target and that we all share a responsibility to future generations to do so. Finding solutions which are equitable and have public support will be crucial. Parliament needs to work with the people and with the Government to address the challenge of climate change.
“The Climate Assembly UK will advise Parliament on how people want us to meet the net-zero target, and suggest policies that the Government can implement to secure success.”
