
# Photos: AbRam Khan joins dad Shah Rukh Khan as he greets fans outside Mannat on his birthday

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:55:39+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/photos-abram-khan-joins-dad-shah-rukh-khan-as-he-greets-fans-outside-mannat-on-his-birthday/articleshow/71867628.cms)

As the King of Hearts, Shah Rukh Khan turned a year sexier today, a sea of fans flocked to Mannat to kick off the celebrations at the stroke of midnight and to wish their favourite star on his birthday.
Fans of the superstar were in for a double treat as SRK, made his second appearance this evening, this time around with his son AbRam Khan. From waving out to giving them the thumbs up and even striking his trademark pose, Shah Rukh had all his fans on cloud nine and made the long wait seem worth the while.
Dressed in a simple white tee and jeans, Shah Rukh stepped up on his pedestal with his youngest son, AbRam looking all grown up in a new short spike hairdo. What made the annual tradition even more special was the little cutie joining in and mimicking his dad by waving to crowd gathered outside their residence.
Some fans even passed on a bright yellow balloon to SRK for AbRam, which the cutie seemed very happy to receive.
This was the actor’s second appearance for the day. On seeing the masses gathered outside his residence last night, the actor stepped out in his hoodie and jeans to wave at fans and gestured to them to keep the noise low to avoid disturbing his neighbours.
Last seen in 'Zero', the actor is expected to announce his next film venture.
