
# Mum watches in horror as train pulls away with her kids still on board

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:23:19+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/mum-watches-horror-train-pulls-20814934)

A stranded mum watched on in horror as a train with her children onboard pulled away without her.
Brigitta M got off the train in her pyjamas for some fresh air and the doors suddenly closed before she could get back onboard.
The mother-of-three from St Poelten, Austria, was travelling on an overnight train with her three children, 11-year-old-twins and a 12-year-old, to Venice in Italy when the train stopped in Pordenone.
She wanted the family to get some fresh air but disaster struck and the train left without her.
She said: "My son was feeling sick so we got off for some fresh air and to go to the toilet.
 
"Once I had sorted my son and got him back on board, the doors suddenly closed. The train remained for a further five minutes on the platform, but I was not allowed back on.
"I ran after the train in my pyjamas."
The woman denies that she was outside having a cigarette break.
She said: "It was only after the incident and I had been assured the kids were OK, that I lit up a cigarette."
She called police who contacted the train personnel who managed to locate the children and look after them until they could be reunited with their mother.
She said: "My kids are well cared for, I try not to let them watch too much TV or play with mobile phones. When possible we always travel by train."
Brigitta took the next train to Venice where she was reunited with her children who were being looked after by train station staff.
