
# Citi Malaysia doubles maternity, paternity leaves

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:29:50+00:00**

Author: **Wong Swee May**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/citi-malaysia-doubles-maternity-paternity-leaves)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 5): Citi today announced new employee benefits which include maternity leave of 180 days, adoption leave to mirror maternity leave, and paternity leave of 10 days for its employees in Malaysia.
Effective Oct 1, the number of maternity and paternity leaves will be doubled from 90 days to 180 days, and from 5 days to 10 days respectively; as well as there will be 90 days fully-paid adoption leave for female employees who are legally adopting a child below 2 years old.
Apart from the leaves, Citi Malaysia is also expanding its CitiKids Care centre, which it first started in 2010. The centre's capacity will be increased from 74 kids to 144 kids, within over 10,000 sq ft premises. Citi Malaysia was the first bank in Malaysia to offer childcare services to its employees.
Citi Malaysia country human resources officer Nisha Padbidri said the new benefits are aligned to Citi's focus to build an inclusive and progressive work culture.
"The enhancement was also in response to our annual voice of the employee survey. It is about employee satisfaction and creating a work culture that strongly supports diversity and is reflective of the progressive society that we live in today.”
Citi Malaysia employs close to 5,000 employees. About 83% of its workforce comprises millennials. Women make up 64% of Citi Malaysia’s workforce.
