
# Kieran Tierney outlines how Unai Emery has improved Arsenal in staunch defence of boss

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:00:12+00:00**

Author: **Neil McLeman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/neil-mcleman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/kieran-tierney-outlines-how-unai-20831899)

Kieran Tierney has insisted the Arsenal players should take the blame for a recent slump in form as he claimed Unai Emery had already made him a “better player”.
The £25m summer signing admitted giving up a lead in a fourth consecutive game against Vitoria Guimaraes was “not good enough and something we need to work on”.
The Emirates club has been rocked by Granit Xhaka getting stripped of the captaincy amid growing fan discontent and Jose Mourinho has been linked with the job.
But the Scotland star said the responsibility had to rest with the players before a huge Premier League match at Leicester on Saturday.
“It is up to us as players to correct it on the pitch,” said the former Celtic defender.
“For me, he (Emery) has been brilliant since I’ve come in. I have learned a lot. I am learning a lot every day, playing with great players. Everybody in the changing room has got belief in each other and the manager.
“What stands out about him? His style of play. He likes to keep the ball, pass the ball with a possession type game and for me I am just learning and working on my technique with him. I am working on passing and crossing - everything in general. I am working with the coaches as well, so just all round I am learning.
“Of course he is making me a better player and the players around me are making me a better player as well. I am just learning and I am enjoying every week.”
Vitoria Guimaraes scored an injury-time equaliser in the Europa League to follow Crystal Palace , Liverpool and Wolves coming back from behind against the Gunners.
“It is hard to say because if you knew what it was you wouldn’t let it happen,” Kierney added.
“It is something we are going to need to work on as a team on the training field as well.
"It is something we will be looking to correct of course, but we are in a process and just getting there. For me coming in it is hard, but it is something we are all going to work on 100 per cent and we need to get out our game.”
Tierney arrived at Arsenal with a hip injury and despite playing the last five games, he has been excused from Scotland duty next week.
“They understand,” said the 22-year-old. “Of course you want to play for your national team, but you need to do what is best for your career long term.
"Tonight this my second game in kind of three, four days so near the end I was tiring. It is probably the right decision as now I am going into the international break knowing I am getting a rest and recovery, because since my operation the load has went up, up and up.
"To get a rest would be beneficial and hopefully for the next camp I’m ready.”
