
# Giannis leads Bucks to fourth straight win

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:12:17+00:00**

Author: **Jay Wilson**

Original: [CHANNEL3000](https://www.channel3000.com/sports/giannis-leads-bucks-to-fourth-straight-win/1139910134)

LOS ANGELES - Giannis Antetokounmpo had 38 points and 16 rebounds, George Hill scored 24 off the bench and the Milwaukee Bucks repelled every threat in beating the Los Angeles Clippers 129-124 on Wednesday night for their fourth victory in a row.
The Bucks hit 18 3-pointers, led by six from Hill.
Antetokounmpo just missed a triple-double with nine assists.
He's posted at least 10 rebounds and five assists in each of the first eight games of the season, the first player since at least 1972-73 to do so.
The Clippers were without Kawhi Leonard, who rested for the first half of a home back-to-back. He'll play against Portland on Thursday night.
Montrezl Harrell had a career-high 34 points and 13 rebounds in his first start of the season.
Lou Williams added 34 points and 11 assists, and Patrick Beverley had 20 points and 10 rebounds in the Clippers' first home loss.
Led by Hill and Kyle Korver with 14 points, the Bucks reserves outscored the Clippers' bench 47-20, the first time that's happened to Los Angeles this season.
Los Angeles starter Landry Shamet had just two points coming into the fourth, but he made four 3-pointers and finished with 14 points.
The last one put the Clippers within two with 23 seconds left.
The Bucks finished off the game at the free throw line, and the Clippers couldn't connect on their multiple chances during their last possession.
The Clippers closed within four early in the fourth, but reigning NBA MVP Antetokounmpo reeled off seven straight points to keep the Bucks ahead 115-103.
Former Clipper Eric Bledsoe added 20 points, and Brook Lopez had 11 points and 12 rebounds for the Bucks.
The Clippers erased an 11-point deficit in the third.
They forced three ties, but each time Antetokounmpo answered for the Bucks. He dunked, hit a 3-pointer and made two free throws.
Milwaukee outscored the Clippers 15-6 to take a 98-89 lead into the fourth.
The Bucks opened the second on a 30-11 run, hitting five 3-pointers, for their largest lead of 17 points. Hill scored 14 points to help the Bucks lead 70-59 at halftime.
They closed with three consecutive 3s, two by Hill and the last by Korver, who beat the buzzer.
TIP-INS   Bucks: Antetokounmpo had two airballs: the first on a jumper to end the first quarter and the second on a free throw in the third. ... For the first time in three games, the Bucks didn't lead all the way -- but they came close. The Clippers' only lead was by three points.   Clippers: Starting forward Patrick Patterson had just two points. ... Coach Doc Rivers remained stuck on 899 career wins.
UP NEXT   Bucks: Visit the Utah Jazz on Friday, the third stop on their four-game trip.   Clippers: Host the Portland Trail Blazers on Thursday.
