
# Rani Rampal pours her heart out talking about Indian women's hockey team's journey to Tokyo Olympics

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:51:46+00:00**

Author: **Jaspreet Sahni**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/hockey/top-stories/rani-rampal-pours-her-heart-out-talking-about-indias-journey-to-tokyo-olympics/articleshow/71935815.cms)

NEW DELHI: Some athletes are born to shape historic moments. In 2008, a 14-year-old Rani Rampal was stunned to see iconic seniors like Suman Bala crying after India failed to qualify for Beijing Olympics. Four years ago, she scored the goal that took India to the Rio Olympics; and last weekend, Rani scored yet another crucial goal to help the Indian team book a Tokyo Olympics berth. There's no doubt that the Shahabad girl is a prominent architect of Indian women's hockey history.
In 2012, when India missed the London Olympics bus, Rani sat outside her room crying till 4 a.m. in the morning. That Olympic qualifier, like the one in Bhubaneswar last weekend, happened at home as well -- in Delhi.
At 0-4 against USA in the second match of the two-legged qualifier in the Odisha capital this time, the aggregate score stood at 5-5. Under extreme pressure, the next goal for either team had the likelihood of being decisive.
In the 49th minute, the ball found Rani, who was once again destined to script history. Her goal took the Indian women's team through to their third Olympics -- 1980, 2016, 2020.
But what were the things that happened in the build-up to the qualifier? What was the conversation on the eve of the second match that Rani had with her room partner? What all went through Rani's head before the second match started on November 2, at half-time, at the end of the third quarter and finally at the moment Rani scored the most important goal?
When the India women's team captain talked to Timesofindia.com from her home in Shahbad, she spoke her heart out.
Here's what Rani said, uninterrupted and in her own words:
"Honestly, before the match (second game of the qualifier against USA), we had decided that we won't play easy at all because it was 0-0, a new match. In the first match, whenever we got chances, we converted those and USA couldn't come back. Second day, they did the same with us. We went in well prepared, but still in the first and second halves, we couldn't perform at all, since USA were playing aggressively. But at half-time, we came together and told ourselves that we haven't lost yet. It's still even (5-5 on aggregate), it's 0-0 effectively. We have 30 minutes to fight. So in the third and fourth quarter we played much better. We played with the mindset that we can't concede another goal and have to score one.
When the fourth quarter was about to begin, and there were still 20 seconds left for the break, I stood on the ground and looked at the clock. There were only 15 minutes to play. For a moment, I felt that the day could see the end of a few players' careers. But then I thought as a captain and told myself that players fight till the last second, and we still have 15 minutes, which is a lot in hockey. So, we played without thinking much, as that would have made us tense. Then I got the chance, and scored. And suddenly my mind went back to 2015, when I had scored the same critical goal and we qualified (for Rio Olympics).
Rabb di mehar ta hamesha rahi hai (God has always blessed me). I firmly believe that God's blessings are for those who make an effort to achieve their goals. I do a lot of 'paath' and believe a lot in Waheguru. I think about all this even in camps, while we train. I think a lot about even the smallest of things. Even my team-mates tell me, 'you overthink'. If we are running, then I don't miss even a centimetre before touching the line, because I know that it might happen the same way in a match as in training. I may miss a goal by running that one centimetre less during a match and we may lose. If I am practising shooting, it's my target to shoot every ball in the goal so that it becomes a habit, and if I get a ball under pressure during a match, I can score. I don't have to think about how to hold the grip and what to do. Maybe God has given me the gift that I can think about these things, because not everybody is blessed with the gift of thinking right.
I don't know but sometimes it's destined. Before going for the match, my room-mate Lalremsiami said, 'You will score today and take us to the Olympics.' I smiled and said all of us will work towards it. She then said, 'When that moment comes, I will be the first to run to you and hug you.' And it happened exactly like that. I scored the goal and she was on the second post. She jumped and ran towards me, hugged me and said, ' Maine bola tha na, aap goal karoge' (I told you that you will score). It was so cute.
But such coincidences have happened with me before as well. Like earlier this year, I was in a lot of pain. There were a lot of injuries. There came a stage when I felt I won't be able to play as I couldn't tolerate that much pain. There was a back injury, shoulder injury, then knee and then pain in the stomach. It felt like the nerves in my brain would burst. Wayne (Lombard) manages our schedules and load. He put me through intense rehab. I used to tell him 'I love hockey a lot and I want to play'. But it was pain all the time. I used to cry when I went to sleep, in pain, every night. But he (Wayne) said to me 'We are working towards four matches this year. Two in Hiroshima (semis and final of FIH Series Finals), and two in the Olympic qualifiers.' So he asked me to just be patient. And when the qualifiers ended, he said to me 'You have scored the most important goal for us and you have been able to do it because of your hard work and determination.' Our goalkeepers, Rajani (Etimarpu) and Savita, told me something which I myself had been thinking, that if we lose today it could be the end of a few careers. They said they had the same feeling but 'you kept our dreams alive'. Those who have seen our struggle will know the value of these things.
The first tournament of my career, when I came to the national team, was the 2008 Olympic qualifier in Russia. I didn't know what the Olympic Games were then. I had no idea that it is such a big tournament for a player. In fact, I thought hockey is not there at the Olympics. I was so young, just 14 years old, that I didn't know hockey is part of the Olympics. We lost to USA 1-4 in the final of the qualifier. When the US team was crossing us after the match, Suman Bala was crying a lot, because it was the end of her career. She had told me then, 'You have to become like them one day and beat them'. I was surprised as to why she is saying like that. Now I know, because they (USA players) were physically so strong, their height, body strength, etc. I was so weak, my weight would have been 40 kg or so at that time.
When we lost the 2012 Olympic qualifier (final against South Africa), I was sitting outside my room and crying till 4 a.m. in the morning. We had worked for four years but could not qualify. Then also it felt like it was the end of my career. At that time I realised why Suman didi was crying in 2008.
Suman didi actually called me two days before this tie against the USA (which India won 6-5 on aggregate). She asked me if I remember what she had told me in 2008. I told her that I definitely remember what she had told me. She said 'it's your time to take revenge now'. I said yes, I am also waiting for that. She had given me an advice 11 years ago, so I knew the value of that. That's also the reason why this qualifier was so special for me.
Sorry, I got a bit too emotional."
