
# Flipkart goes to High Court against ‘insolvency’

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/flipkart-goes-to-high-court-against-insolvency/articleshow/71944401.cms)

CloudWalker claims that Flipkart had taken possession of all the TVs that it had ordered but failed to pay City-based e-commerce giant, Flipkart is facing insolvency proceedings. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in an order dated October 24, 2019, initiated the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) by appointing Deepak Saruparia as the Interim Resolution Professional. This followed a company petition filed by Mumbai-based CloudWalker Streaming Technologies Pvt Ltd, a LED screen supplier which alleged that Flipkart was not paying vendors and was not ‘economically viable’. However, the HC has also issued a stay on the tribunal’s order. Flipkart claimed before the HC that the tribunal did not have jurisdiction to entertain a petition for damages. It was only entitled to an adjudicate dispute where a debt was payable, which was not the case here. The CIRP process was initiated after Flipkart failed to settle the issue despite the NCLT granting “several opportunities to the parties to settle the issue especially the Corporate Debtor claimed it is solvent Company and initiating CIRP against it, would have serious devastating effect on its operations.” CloudWalker claimed that Flipkart had taken possession of all the TVs that it had ordered but failed to pay the excess charges and costs. It was alleged that Flipkart failed to pay Rs 26.95 crore. Flipkart “is commercially insolvent and is unable to pay its debts. The Corporate Debtor Company is not economically viable and poses a threat to commercially morality,” the petition had claimed. Pending the CIRP, the NCLT had placed a moratorium on continuation of all suits against Flipkart in all courts, tribunals or other authorities. Flipkart is prohibited from alienating any of its assets or legal rights and from foreclosing any of its debts.
