
# Celtic player ratings as Mohamed Elyounoussi shows clinical edge in Betfred Cup semi-final win over Hibs

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:09:15+00:00**

Author: **David McCarthy, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/david-mccarthy/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/celtic-player-ratings-mohamed-elyounoussi-20798416)

Mohamed Elyounoussi continued his excellent form as Celtic raced into the Betfred Cup Final after a 5-2 win over Hibs.
The Southampton loanee was the star of the show as he scored a brace to propel his side to victory.
There were plenty of good performances on show for the holders as Scott Brown and Callum McGregor were also on the scoresheet.
Celtic have now won an unprecedented thirty cup games in a row and the Parkhead club are now one game away from winning the competition for the fourth straight season.
Here's how Neil Lennon 's players rated in the seven-goal thriller at Hampden.
Relieved to see an early Horgan effort from distance land on the top of the net after evading his stretching fingers and didn’t have anything to do until being beaten by Hallberg at Hibs’ opener when he made himself big but had no chance with that one or the second from Kamberi’s header - 6
Teenager got the nod ahead of Elhamed and Bauer and although tested defensively by Horgan at times, was electrifying going forward and showed real composure in tight situations. The boy looks a fantastic prospect and was fazed by nothing all afternoon - 7
Copped a sore one early on after an aerial joust with Doidge and needed lengthy treatment. Was strolling through it before Hibs got one back as the entire defence failed to deal with a free kick and after the Edinburgh outfit scored their second the Frenchman made two vital interceptions in his own box - 7
 
Proved his prowess in air with early header that brought a great save from Maxwell and was happy to build the play from the back by striding forward into the midfield with the ball at his feet. Won’t have been happy to have lost his aerial battle with Kamberi that led to Hibs’ second goal - 6
Given the freedom of Hampden to create and link with Elyounoussi, often charging down the outside to take advantage of the space left by the winger as he moved inside but culpable at the Hibs goal with his panicky jab at the ball presenting the chance on a plate for Hallberg. Off at the break with a hamstring injury - 5
Captained passed a fitness test to take his usual place in the engine room, where he roamed around without being asked too many questions for large spells and even managed to get himself on the scoresheet from close range. Had to dig in and rally his troops after they stepped off the pace at 4-2 and ended the contest with his second of the evening - 8
Perpetual motion in the middle of the park, constantly moving and evading the attentions of Vela in particular, and it was no surprise to see him pop up in the Hibs box to tap home the second goal. Had more energy than most in the second half, covering defensively when Hibs came back into the game - 7
The winger’s pace, drive and determination posed problems for Stevenson all afternoon and it was his quality that teed up the opener with the perfect clipped cross to the back post for Elyounoussi to score. Was replaced by Elhamed in the 66th minute in a tactical reshuffle - 7
Surprising inclusion with Christie left on the bench but a big game player who usually delivers at Hampden and he was instrumental in the third goal, dropping into a pocket of space to find Edouard, who claimed the assist. Wasn’t as prominent after the break and eventually made way for Christie with 12 minutes left - 6
Always a threat cutting in from the left and trying to get shots away with his right foot but it was the Norwegian’s head that did the business in the 16th minute, nodding in at the back post, before his eye for goal was confirmed with his second and Celtic’s third. Unlucky to see another effort cannon off the inside of the post - 9
Focal point of the attack and created the second goal, albeit he should have been flagged offside as he burst in on Maxwell. Did just as well at the third goal, displaying all his power and poise to lay the chance on a plate for Elyounoussi and the Hibs central defence didn’t have many answers to the Frenchman’s quality - 8
Subs:
Replaced Bolingoli at half time in a like for like switch and within three minutes missed a good chance - 5
On for Forrest after 66 minutes as Lennon altered the system to go to a back three, slotting in on the right of the trio - 4
Left cooling his heels on the bench until the 78th minute when he came on for Rogic - 3
