
# KTM 250 Adventure unveiled - smallest adventure bike in the KTM family

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:55:48+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/ktm-250-adventure-unveiled-smallest-adventure-bike-in-the-ktm-family/)

While the KTM 390 Adventure stole the show at EICMA 2019, the younger, smaller and more accessible 250 Adventure has silently broken cover on the internet. The 250 Adventure wasn't showcased at the EICMA 2019, however, if rumours are to be believed, the adventure motorcycle could be seen in the flesh at its India launch early next month. Most likely, the 250 Adventure will be launched alongside the 390 Adventure in India and could be pitched as a more accessible adventure motorcycle in the KTM family.
As part of undercutting the 390 Adventure, the 250 Adventure misses out on most bells and whistles. To begin with the feature list, the 250 Adventure gets a halogen headlamp instead of an all-LED unit. For suspensions, the 250 Adventure gets standard upside-down forks in the front, and a pre-load and rebound adjustable monoshock in the rear as opposed to the fully adjustable separate function USD forks on the 390 Adventure. The 250 also misses out on the ride-by-wire and traction control, however, the 250 gets a dual-channel ABS that can be completely turned off.
The styling is identical to the elder 390 Adventure which has been a theme in KTM's hierarchy. The tank extensions on the 250 get the KTM's signature orange paint with decals. The seat height is 855mm high and the fuel tank capacity stands at 14.5 litres - identical to the 390 Adventure. The source of power is a 250cc single-cylinder, liquid-cooled, engine that we've seen in the 250 Duke. The power is rated at 29.5PS and 24Nm torque. The engine is mated to a six-speed gearbox.
As mentioned earlier, the 250 Adventure and the 390 Adventure could be launched early December and the deliveries are expected to commence by January 2020. The 250 Adventure could be launched at a price ranging between Rs 2 lakh and 2.1 lakh ex-showroom. With this, the 250 Adventure will be a direct rival to the Royal Enfield Himalayan which retails at Rs 1.8 lakh, ex-showroom Mumbai.

        EICMA 2019: 2020 Kawasaki Z900 showcased
      

        EICMA 2019: A closer look at the India-bound KTM 390 Adventure – Image Gallery
      

        EICMA 2019: Aprilia RS660 supersport unveiled
      

        EICMA 2019: Husqvarna's Norden concept previews retro-styled ADV motorcycle
      

        EICMA 2019: Brand-new KTM 890 Duke R revealed
      

        EICMA 2019: Harley-Davidson's first-ever adventure tourer and streetfighter have broken cover!
      
