
# Defiant Rulani: The Reality Is This…

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:13:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/rulani-there-s-progress-and-positives/666746)

For Rulani Mokwena, the previous five matches for Orlando Pirates – including the weekend’s Soweto Derby defeat to Kaizer Chiefs, show progress.
The coach was asked whether he was under pressure to start delivering results having only managed three wins in 11 matches, and he defiantly argued that the Buccaneers were on the up and up recently.  

        Read: Rulani: If Anyone Is Still Questioning... 
      
“Let’s put things into perspective and look at Pirates’ last five games, including against Chiefs. There’s two wins, two draws and one defeat and if that is not an upward trajectory and you don’t see that as progress, then I don’t know what is,” Mokwena replied.
He did not consider the defeat against rivals Amakhosi in the Telkom Knockout on Saturday as such, given that the match was decided in a penalty shootout.
Pirates are also 10 points behind log leaders Chiefs in the Absa Premiership and face Maritzburg United tonight hoping to catch up.
“No team can win each and every single game. But where we are coming from, losing games and conceding goals week in week out, we have managed to stabilise the ship. The reality is this: we are two points off fourth spot. It makes the next league games very important so that we can get a little bit closer to compete for the championship. And that is what we have to focus on for now. There’s a lot of progress and positives. If you look at basically the results and not consider penalties, so for us we don’t feel the pressure and the crisis. We have proven we can win games, ours now is to find a bit of consistency and win two, three, four games in a row,” said Mokwena.

        Read: 'Pirates Don't Need This Coach'
      
