
# Player set for shock January exit after failed Aston Villa transfer

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:24:12+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/aston-villa-transfer-news-moukoudi-17219533)

Harold Mokoudi came so close to becoming an Aston Villa player last year.
The 21-year-old defender was on Steve Bruce’s radar in the summer of 2018 and was jetted into Birmingham to check out the club’s facilities ahead of a £7million transfer.
Moukoudi decided against a move to England at that time, though, and stayed at French club Le Havre.
He started the season in Ligue 2 extraordinarily well with a series of solid displays at the heart of defence.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
But Moukoudi refused to sign a new contract with Le Havre and having been released, he joined Saint-Etienne in July.
He’s made nine appearances for the Ligue 1 side this season but is set to be at the centre of yet another transfer episode in the coming weeks.
 
Former Leicester City boss Claude Puel took over at Saint-Etienne last month and doesn’t see Moukoudi as part of his plans going forward.
Reports in France claim that he’ll be made available for an early exit in January as part of a clear-out at Stade Geoffroy-Guichard.
 
Villa are highly unlikely to renew their interest with Dean Smith having signed four centre-backs on permanent deals in the summer.
Bjorn Engels and Ezri Konsa were brought in after Tyrone Mings and Kortney Hause had their loan stints converted into full-time deals.
