
# Protect Your Kid’s Privacy (and Your Own) When Playing Fortnite

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:26:18+00:00**

Author: **Rochel Maday**

Original: [Avira Blog](https://blog.avira.com/protect-your-kids-privacy-and-your-own-when-playing-fortnite/)

4 min read
The increasingly popular game of Fortnite could leave your child vulnerable to hackers and predators. The good news is there are plenty of ways to protect your privacy, between the game itself and the device it’s played on. Here are some guidelines for checking Fortnite privacy settings.
Epic Games, the creators behind Fortnite, certainly care about the privacy of its users. But this doesn’t mean they’re innocent when it comes to putting players at risk. Based on their Privacy Policy, they do collect information from players and use or share it. This process seems to be unavoidable, but the good news is that Epic Games shares data in a responsible manner.
The company only collects, uses, shares, stores, or processes personal information when they have an appropriate basis. Data is collected when players voluntarily provide it, through cookies, or social networks. Information is used or shared for security purposes, internal audition purposes, to communicate with players, to comply with legal obligations, and to personalize a player’s experience.
Epic Games is transparent about their privacy settings and urge concerned parents and players to email questions to privacy@epicgames.com, where they’ll respond and address any privacy-related inquiries.
Now that you know you have data to protect, how do you do that? Here’s how to make sure your privacy is protected on Fortnite, no matter where you’re playing from.
No matter the device your child is playing from, you can adjust privacy controls within the game. To adjust yours, launch the game and open the menu. Select “Parental Controls”. Confirm the email address linked to the account and set a unique six-digit PIN. Remember this number, as it will be the only way to adjust parental controls going forward.
You can then walk through the privacy options. Common privacy selections include filter mature language, auto decline friend requests, turn off voice or text chat, or request weekly playtime reports to monitor your child’s screen time.
However, it’s important to understand that these privacy controls only apply to Fortnite. This means that, depending on the platform the game is being played on, certain features may still work.
For example, selecting the option to deny friend requests on the Fortnite game will be effective on certain devices, while others will still allow your child to make friends as they choose.
The main exception to this occurs on Android devices. In-game Fortnite parental controls will all transfer to Android devices. However, Google Play parental controls do not apply to Fortnite. See the sections below to learn more about what each device will allow and what other privacy options you may have to set.
On PlayStation®4, parents can set parental controls for individual child family accounts. This means you’ll want to ensure your child only plays on their account. You can also set controls over certain social features, spending limits, and internet access.
You can also set controls regarding who can send friend requests, follow accounts, see your child’s real name, or communicate with them. Just keep in mind that a child can adjust their privacy settings if the parental controls allow for it.
Xbox settings will allow you to put a cap on purchase amounts, communication features, and multiplayer modes. Unlike PlayStation®4, Xbox does not allow a child’s account to modify its privacy and online safety settings. Only an adult account can do so.
From your account, you can adjust privacy settings for each child account and deny apps from accessing your child’s data or block chat options. Xbox offers an extensive range of customizable child privacy settings.
Microsoft privacy settings put parents in complete control. From one central hub, family settings can be applied to all devices, making it easier for parents to monitor their child’s Fortnite activities. Screen time limits can be set on devices and require permission for purchases.
As you may imagine, Apple provides a plethora of privacy and security options that can be accessed through the “Settings” tab. Set screen time, prevent microphone access, and set a Parent Passcode to prevent unapproved adjustments.
 
It is possible to allow your child to play games like Fortnite and not worry about their privacy or safety. With a little research, you can find out exactly how to protect your child with Fortnite privacy settings, no matter the device they’re on. Should you ever have any questions or concerns regarding the privacy of your child when playing Fortnite, contact the support team behind the device they’re playing on.
