
# Ralf Rangnick's comments on Man Utd amid director of football link

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:00:10+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/ralf-rangnicks-comments-man-utd-20834465)

Manchester United may face a battle persuading Ralf Rangnick to take up a role at the club - if previous comments from the Red Bull chief are anything to go by.
United have been searching for a director of football or technical director to take charge of the club's recruitment.
And Rangnick , 61, has emerged as one of the leading contenders along with the likes of Rio Ferdinand and Edwin van der Sar, who have both been linked in the past.
The German coach, who most recently guided RB Leipzig to promotion to the Bundesliga, is currently Red Bull's head of sport and development, overseeing the brand's various clubs.
 
However in various interviews over the last few months, Rangnick has seemingly suggested that United's current struggles on the pitch could put him off making an Old Trafford switch.
In August, he told The Times: "I am happy in my current job and it would take a lot to lure me away right now.
"There is a lot of space for a vision for United, but I am very happy where I am.
"Since Sir Alex [Ferguson] left they were underperforming. They haven’t won the title since he left.
"At any club, if you cannot get the right players, then you should at least not sign the wrong ones. You are in trouble if you do that in one or two or three consecutive transfer windows.
"Club building is about building the right squad by transferring the right players away and having more than 50 per cent success rate of bringing in the right players. Then you must have the best possible coaches to develop these players."
Then in another interview last month, the German chief highlighted the issues the club have endured behind the scenes since the legendary Sir Alex Ferguson retired in 2013.
Speaking in October, he told The Guardian: "I am happy where I am but if any club wanted to speak to me, the question would have to be: ‘Can I be somebody who can influence areas of development across the whole club?’ Otherwise you are only getting half of what I am capable of.
"If, after that, you can work together in a trustworthy and respectful way, then you are more likely to be successful.
"It’s always difficult to follow someone like Sir Alex Ferguson, who was so successful and in place for a long time – and that’s even harder if you are often changing coaches.
"With every coaching change, the identity changes and this is reflected in the sporting development. You can look at the money that team has had available in the last five years and say there has been an underperformance."
