
# DPM Heng Swee Keat calls for adjournment after being questioned by Sylvia Lim

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:19:42+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen.F**

Original: [The Online Citizen](https://www.theonlinecitizen.com/2019/11/06/dpm-heng-swee-keat-calls-for-adjournment-after-being-questioned-by-slyvia-lim/)

On Tuesday (5 November), Parliament debated a motion put forth by Deputy Prime Minister Heng Swee Keat for Worker’s Party (WP) MPs Sylvia Lim and Low Thia Khiang to recuse themselves from dealing with or having oversight over financial matters of the Aljunied-Huogang Town Council (AHTC) until the court case has ended.
In his long speech calling for the motion, Mr Heng referred to the High Court judgement which found Ms Lim, Mr Low, and WP chief Pritam Singh liable for damages suffered by AHTC, which it has been said made improper payments under their watch amounting to millions.
As Mr Heng delivered his motion, he claimed that Ms Lim and Mr Low had been “dishonest and deceptive and have failed in their duty to the Town Council”.
Ms Lim countered by seeking clarification from Mr Heng on his remarks that “millions have been lost”, to which he hesitated as he flipped through his folder before addressing Ms Lim’s other queries.
There was then a little back and forth between the ministers on various points with the DPM saying, “I moved this motion because this is a question of integrity, this is a question of the way that we deal honestly in parliament with our residents, with the public, and with our fellow town councillors.”
“I have asked very serious questions about how the transactions were done. I have pointed out very serious findings in all the audit reports, in all the high court findings, the court of appeal findings. But both of you have just stood up to ask me a series of little details.”
To this, WP MP Png Eng Huat retorted, “It is a question of integrity”.
Ms Lim then said, “DPM Heng Swee Keat’s filing of this motion at this point in time is telling but premature,” adding that “The PAP gov is clearly excited about certain findings and comments contained in the High Court judgement.”
She continued, “We have been studying the judgment with our lawyers since it was released and I can inform the house today that we have decided to appeal the judgment with the court of appeal.”
Following that, only a few minutes into what would turn out to be an almost 3-hour long debate, Mr Heng asked for an adjournment. He said, “Ms Sylvia Lim, a member, has said that she has made the point that it was not proper for me to raise this and I would like an adjournment for us to consider the matter and respond to you.”
Mr Pritam Singh countered that there was no need for an adjournment as the House had only just come back from a break. However, the speaker granted a 10-minute adjournment anyway.
