
# The only Boks player to beat England in two World Cup finals is feeling emotional

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:02:07+00:00**

Author: **Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/the-only-boks-player-to-beat-england-in-two-world-cup-finals-is-feeling-emotional-frans-steyn)

Replacement Frans Steyn only played the closing minutes of the 2019 World Cup final but the 2007 winner was thrilled to bridge the 12-year gap since South Africa last ruled the rugby world.
The 32-year-old, who started the pool matches versus Namibia and Canada at the finals in Japan, dedicated his involvement from the bench in the decider to his family.
“It’s amazing of course,” he said, reflecting on life since that previous World Cup final win by South Africa over England in 2007. “I’ve gone through so much since that World Cup.
“I lost my uncle a couple of weeks ago. I lost my brother a few years ago. So everything has changed a lot in that time from where I was then to where I am now.
“So on the bus on the way here, that’s what I was thinking about. They were with me in here before tonight’s game.”

        (Continue reading below…)
      

        Click here to see the video
      
Sizing up the difference between the twin triumphs, he added: “I’m older now compared to these guys who are younger. I don’t think it has hit them what they have done yet. But it will when they get home.
“I’m in a WhatsApp group with the players from that (2007) tournament. We still stay in touch and have a laugh. That’s the sort of thing these guys will have too.
“It [winning] is huge, as the country is in a worse position now than it was then. There have been numerous droughts recently and a ton of other stuff. Hopefully, it can bring the country together.”

        WATCH: RugbyPass encountered some rowdy fans following South Africa’s win over England  
      
