
# A league of their own: new menswear brands to watch – in pictures

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:22:36+00:00**

Author: **Helen Seamons**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/fashion/gallery/2019/nov/03/a-league-of-their-own-new-menswear-brands-to-watch-in-pictures)


        With a focus on sustainability, inclusivity and old-fashioned elegance, these six labels are the rising stars of menswear
      
Priya Ahluwalia’s collections take inspiration from her dual Indian-Nigerian heritage and London roots. All pieces are made from secondhand and dead-stock clothing, using textile techniques to give them new life. A trip to Lagos, where she saw street traders wearing clothes with obscure British graphics, led her to research secondhand clothing further. Visiting Panipat, India, the global garment-recycling capital, fuelled her passion for responsible sourcing. Trench, to order, and shirt £405, both Ahluwalia Studio at ssense.com This article contains affiliate links, which means we may earn a small commission if a reader clicks through and makes a purchase. All our journalism is independent and is in no way influenced by any advertiser or commercial initiative. By clicking on an affiliate link, you accept that third-party cookies will be set. More information.
Founded in New York by Haoran Li and Siying Qu, Private Policy takes concepts of youth culture in downtown New York as its brand DNA to “make cool stuff for the kids of today”. Each season, it focuses on one socio-politicial topic. In its AW16 collection, it shone a light on social class discrimination and environmental issues , and for SS17 its focus was slave labour in the fishing industry of southeast Asia. For AW19, “Human vs Money” explores capitalism’s obsession with consumption. Vest and check jacket combo £495, privatepolicyny.com
Shown as part of this year’s Fashion East in London, Robyn Lynch’s debut collection is a comment on her Irish heritage and youth culture. Think football-terrace wear and reworked Aran knitwear in head-to-toe colours. Inspiration comes from her father’s style and archive footage of players and fans at the Dublin games. Working in only three colours (her graduate collection used the colours of the Irish flag) Lynch has honed her sportswear look into something instantly recognisable. Jumper £550, and track pants £260, both Robyn Lynch at raremarket.com
One of the rising stars of London fashion week, Rahemur Rahman is redefining what it means for fashion to be “Made in Bangladesh”, by using design to retell stories of South Asian identity. For his first fashion week outing at a Bengali arts and cultural centre in east London, he cast models who are Sikh, Muslim and Hindu, from Pakistani, Bangladeshi and Indian heritage. The collection, titled “For people who dream in colour”, uses a palette of pink, jade, brown and purple inspired by family photos from the 1980s. Blazer, trousers and shirt all made to order, rahemurrahman.com
Emily Adams Bode was the first female designer to show at New York men’s fashion week. Having been nominated for the coveted LVMH prize earlier this year, she is carving a name for herself with her vintage aesthetic. The garments are one-of-kind, made from rare fabrics in limited quantities. Using artisan craft techniques, such as quilting, the storytelling of each garment is central to her collections. Jacket £1,230, shirt £385, and trousers £675, all Bode at matchesfashion.com. Sandals £390, Birkenstock 1774 x Random Identities at birkenstock1774.com
Founded by Charaf Tajer, Casablanca is a label that oozes jet-set and swag. It’s a fusion between old-world elegance and leisurewear that brings retro après-sport glamour to 2019. A feelgood sun- drenched colour palette with vivid all-over prints of palazzos and pools decorates silk shirts, while track suits come in luxe terry towelling for post- match cocktails. Designed in Paris and made in Casablanca, where his parents met, Tajer’s label is putting modern luxury on the map. Shirt £520, and trousers £215, both casablancaparis.com. Boots £750, jimmychoo.com
Photograph: Joshua Woods/The Observer
