
# How to watch Apple TV Plus

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Welch**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/1/20941860/apple-tv-plus-how-to-stream-iphone-ipad-roku-fire-tv)

Apple’s big push into original programming begins today with the launch of Apple TV Plus. The service costs $4.99 per month, but if you’ve bought an iPhone, iPad, or Mac recently, you’re likely eligible to stream it for the entire first year at no cost. It’s a pretty crafty move on Apple’s part, especially since the lineup of shows is still relatively short on day one. Netflix, Hulu, and Amazon are years deep into original productions.
Even $4.99 for an unproven catalog would be a tough sell for some, but a whole lot of people aren’t even going to have to think about it; they’ll just have it.
People using iOS and iPadOS devices can download Apple TV Plus shows for offline viewing.
The Apple TV app is slowly making its way to popular smart TVs and streaming devices. On launch day, you can find it on Roku, Amazon Fire TV, and recent televisions from Samsung. It’s also set to arrive on TVs from LG, Vizio, and Sony. Some of those TVs already support AirPlay 2, so you can send Apple TV Plus from your iPhone to the TV screen even if the app isn’t yet available.
The downside of streaming Apple TV Plus through some of these platforms is that they lack features like Dolby Vision and Atmos (though basic HDR10 should be there).
Yes. Log in with your Apple ID at http://tv.apple.com. Supported browsers include Google Chrome, Firefox, and Apple’s own Safari.
Not at this time.
Apple TV Plus is $4.99 per month. New subscribers are eligible for a seven-day free trial.
Apple TV Plus supports Apple’s family sharing feature, which means you and up to five other people can share the same subscription. Here’s how to set up family sharing.
If you’ve recently bought an iPhone, iPod touch, iPad, Mac, or Apple TV, you should be prompted to redeem your free year when you open the TV app today. Apple says hardware purchased after September 10th, 2019, is eligible. You’ve got three months to redeem the offer, and the clock starts after the initial setup of your device. All the fine print can be found on Apple’s site here. Note that your subscription will be automatically set to renew once that year-long promotion runs out. So it might be worth setting a reminder to cancel it through your subscription settings should you decide Apple TV Plus, however it looks 12 months on, isn’t worth your $5.
The discounted Apple Music plan for students now also includes Apple TV Plus for the same $4.99 as before. You get both services for that price.

        Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see 
        
          our ethics policy
        
        .
      
