
# Plymouth Argyle boosted by return to full training of Dom Telford and Conor Grant

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:41:15+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/plymouth-argyle-boosted-return-full-3506573)

Striker Dom Telford and midfielder Conor Grant have both returned to full training with Plymouth Argyle after injury lay-offs.
They are in contention to be part of the Pilgrims’ squad for the FA Cup first round tie at Bolton Wanderers on Saturday.
The only player still on the Home Park casualty list is midfielder Jose Baxter, who continues to be sidelined by a calf injury.
Telford has been out of action since suffering a hamstring injury during the 2-0 home defeat by Cheltenham Town on September 21.
Argyle have been very cautious with his recovery as it was the second time this season that the 22-year-old had been sidelined this way.
However, he has trained all week and even scored two goals in an 11-versus-11 practice match between the Pilgrims’ squad at Home Park on Tuesday.
Telford has been limited to five starts and three substitute appearances by his injuries this season.
Manager Ryan Lowe said: “Dom has trained all week and scored two goals in that 11 v 11. He’s looking sharp.”
Grant picked up a thigh injury during the 3-0 EFL Trophy win away to Swindon Town on October 8.
The 24-year-old has been working with Argyle’s head of fitness and conditioning John Lucas over recent days.
Grant returned to full training with the rest of the first team squad today, in advance of the trip to Bolton.
Baxter suffered a calf injury in the 2-2 draw away to Crawley Town on September 17 and it has troubled him ever since.
He did play as a second half substitute in the 1-1 draw at Swindon on Octo9ber 12, but returned to the casualty list after that.
Lowe said: “It’s just a waiting game with Jose. He will try and train probably Monday or Tuesday and then we will take it from there to see where he is at.”
The Pilgrims' boss held the one-hour 11-versus-11 practice match on Tuesday after the postponement of the game against Grimsby Town at Home Park last weekend.
He said: “It was just to get some volume in their legs and get some patterns of play.

        Keep an eye out on our social media pages for more Argyle news - we are on Twitter  @HeraldPAFC  and on Facebook Plymouth Live - Argyle  
      

        You can follow Argyle reporter Chris Errington on Twitter @ChrisErrington1 and on Facebook HeraldChris
      

        Plymouth Live has launched a WhatsApp service dedicated to keeping you up to date with the latest Argyle news.  Click here to join  and follow the instructions on your phone.
      

        Your number will not be shared with anyone else in the group. If you want more information on signing up, or if this link does not work  click here.
      

         
      
“We changed the lads around a little bit and we looked at different personnel so it gives you some ideas.
“We had our team set for Grimsby, but that doesn’t necessarily mean it’s going to be the team for Bolton so we looked at one or two things.
“Our attention turns to Bolton and what style they play, where they pose their threats, and we try and nullify them.
“Also, in our patterns of play, we need to make sure we are right, and that’s what it was for.”
