
# Electronic Deals – November 5, 2019: Anker, Nespresso & More

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:55:27+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-anker-nespresso-nikon-sony-tcl-deal-black-friday-sale.html)

Amazon is discounting Anker accessories today by up to 48-percent. This is part of Amazon's Gold Box deal of the Day. And this makes it a great time to stock up on some stocking stuffers this holiday season. As there are battery packs, wall chargers, USB cables and so much more in this Gold Box Deal of the Day today.
Amazon has the perfect gift for the coffee lovers on your shopping list this year, and that's Nespresso by De'Longhi Lattissima Espresso and Cappuccino Machines. These are on sale as part of Amazon's Gold Box Deal of the Day today as well, and are discounted by as much as 47-percent. That makes this the perfect time to grab one or two.
Amazon is discounting a number of Nikon cameras and lenses right now, in its "Happy HoliDeals" event. Allowing you to save big on some great cameras on lenses. Including the Nikon D750 which is up to 15-percent off right now. There are some really good lenses on sale, like the Nikon 50mm f/1.8 lens, that is just $176 today – that's the same price as a used one!
Advertisement
This is probably the last time the Fire TV Stick 4K is going to be on sale before Black Friday, and it's unlikely to get much cheaper come Black Friday. You can save $10 off of it right now, picking it up for just $40. That is a really great price for the 4K model, and one of the cheaper 4K streaming sticks that you can buy. This also comes with the new Alexa voice remote, which now has volume buttons! So you can control things with Alexa through your TV now.
These deals are all available until midnight PST on the expiration date specified below. These prices are also as up-to-date as possible, but beware that prices will fluctuate throughout the day. For the latest deals from Amazon, you can check out their Deals page here.
