
# Granit Xhaka stripped of Arsenal captaincy by Unai Emery after outburst at fans

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:42:04+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/breaking-granit-xhaka-stripped-arsenal-20819160)

Granit Xhaka has been stripped of the Arsenal captaincy by manager Unai Emery after his recent outburst at fans.
Xhaka was reacted angrily to being jeered off by his own supporters in their 1-1 draw with Crystal Palace , appearing to tell supporters to "f*** off" as he left the pitch.
He was urged to apologise by Emery but released an explosive statement five days later in which he outlined the sick abuse directed at him and his family.
Emery has left Xhaka out of his squad since the incident, and he has not travelled to Portugal to take part in Wednesday's Europa League clash with Vitoria.
After pondering the best course of action, the under-fire Spanish boss has now opted to remove the captaincy from the midfielder, appointing Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang in the role.
 
"I had a meeting with him and told him he is no longer in the captain's group," Emery explained at his press conference on Tuesday.
"He accepted my decision. We need to carry on and focus on tomorrow's match.
"I needed to take a decision and now it's closed."
Xhaka was appointed captain after a dressing room poll amongst players in pre-season, leaving Emery risking the wrath of senior players with his punishment of a player clearly popular amongst his peers.
Three unnamed senior players reportedly visited Xhaka in his home after the Crystal Palace game to check on his wellbeing, and reports have suggested Emery's grip on the dressing room is slipping.
 
Aubameyang captained the side against Wolves on Saturday and Emery confirmed he will take the armband moving forwards.
But Aubameyang has also not travelled to Portugal, and it is unclear who will take on the role in their game in Guimaraes.
Since the incident. Emery has been tight-lipped on whether Xhaka would remain captain.
Ahead of their draw with Wolves, he said: “He is training normally, but like every human he feels emotions. Xhaka's issues last week need time to recover the normality with him and with us.
“Everybody will have some social media on their phone, on the internet, on the web, but really to use it is only to be intelligent.
 
“We can respect the people on social media, but we have to separate how much of it is real and whether every supporter is following that.
“In the stadium, is is normal when we are not winning that they respond with some criticism – and then, when you come back with a good performance, they forget that and they applaud the players.
“Our objective is to win (against Wolves), connect with the people and for the supporters to respond to us, and help us in the 90 minutes.
“Xhaka has said sorry, he gave apologies to the supporters, to everybody, and now the focus is on our next match.”
His actions were slammed by Arsenal legends, including Ian Wright, who questioned his behaviour as captain of the club.
"Players getting booed is not the best, but this is the captain," said Wright on Match of the Day.
"They are frustrated that he hasn't run off the pitch. I've seen him before bolt off when he's substituted. He's walked off and then he goads them.
"We're talking about fans who have watched him play a handful of good games in three years. And he's treating them like that."
