
# Rulani Concedes To Chiefs... But Wants Them to Prove It

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:31:00+00:00**

Author: **Mazola Molefe**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/why-chiefs-are-favourites-in-soweto-derby/666489)

Orlando Pirates coach Rulani Mokwena says rivals Kaizer Chiefs go into tomorrow afternoon’s Soweto Derby clash in the Telkom Knockout quarterfinals as favourites.
Form does back his statement – the Glamour Boys have won eight of their 10 matches so far this season, while the Buccaneers have managed only three victories in the same number of games since Mokwena took over.

        Read: Desperate Plea To PSL 
      
“I don’t want to use the term underdog out of respect for our players, but obviously Chiefs a stronger and we accept that,” Mokwena said.
“They must show on the pitch that they are stronger. They are not conceding a lot of goals – only six this season. And they are a free scoring team with 15 goals. We know what we have to face and we are prepared. Chiefs are favourites.”
Mokwena has found it tough following his appointment in August, which came as a result of the shock resignation of Micho Sredojevic, the Serbian mentor he’d assisted for two seasons at the club as they finished runners-up in the title race behind Mamelodi Sundowns.
He said the 1-0 win over Highlands Park in the Absa Premiership on Tuesday night may have brought back confidence ahead of the Soweto Derby.

        Read: Rulani: There's No Game Pirates Haven't Dominated  
      
