
# Pitso: I'm The Only One Who Congratulates Referees

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:55:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/mamelodi-sundowns/pitso-mosimane-i-m-the-only-one-who-congratulates-referees/666633)

Mamelodi Sundowns head coach Pitso Mosimane was full of praise for the referee during his side's Telkom Knockout victory over Chippa United.

        Read: Downs Overcome Spirited Chippa To Advance In TKO
      
Sundowns needed penalties to overcome the Chilli Boys after it ended 2-2 in extra-time at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium.
Mosimane has previously been vocal about referees, which has since landed him in hot water, but the Sundowns coach had nothing but good words for Sunday's referee.
"Ja, who cares how you arrived [to the semi-finals], nobody cares, are you gonna ask the guys who are in the semi-finals how they arrived? It's a cup," the outspoken Sundowns mentor told SuperSport TV after the match.
"We were a little bit sluggish, not free flowing, I know why, I know my team; because we come from a defeat of Kaizer Chiefs and again the opponent scored first and so early, you know like Chiefs, six minutes, ten minutes, we need to settle. If we had scored first, it could've been something. So mentally, you have to understand they struggled. And by the way, they took the lead again. What a goal [by Silas Maziya], I don't think the boy can score it again even if you give him the ball the same way again, no he can't score, the way he scored, not that he can't score a goal," he continued.
"We need to congratulate the referees, I congratulate them, even when I lose I do congratulate them but I will also complain even if I win, so I'm congratulating them. Tell me any coach who congratulates the referees, it's only me. That perception that Pitso is always complaining about referees, yes I will complain if they are doing wrong things.
"I will congratulate the referees and I've been fined for congratulating the referees, did you see my charge? I congratulated the referee, I'm fined. So what should I do, criticise them?"
