
# Wolves player ratings as Neves, Moutinho and Jota star in Arsenal draw

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:15:35+00:00**

Author: **Alex Dicken, https://www.facebook.com/alexdickenjournalist/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/wolves-player-ratings-neves-moutinho-17191042)

A late Raul Jimenez header clinched a deserved 1-1 draw for Wolverhampton Wanderers against Arsenal at The Emirates. 
Wolves appeared to be heading for defeat in north London before Jimenez met Joao Moutinho’s cross in the 76th minute to send 3,000+ Wolves fans wild. 
Arsenal had led the game through Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang before Wolves’ second half pressure told. 
Here are our ratings from The Emirates:

        Rui Patricio 7
      
Patricio made an excellent save from Torreira shortly after Arsenal took the lead. The Portuguese also made a series of routine stops and commanded his box well. 

        Leander Dendoncker 8
      
The stand-in centre-back looked incredibly sure of himself in a position he’s barely played since joining Wolves. There will be games when Nuno requires Dendoncker’s physicality in midfield but the Belgian is doing a sterling job in Willy Boly’s absence. 

        Conor Coady 7
      
Coady marshalled the back three well and hit a few excellent passes out to Doherty and Traore on the right flank. He wasn’t overly troubled by Arsenal’s attacking trident of Ozil, Aubameyang and Lacazette, although he did allow the latter to turn too easily for the Gunners’ opener.
 

        Romain Saiss 7
      
Aside from scything down Martinelli, which earned him a booking, Saiss didn’t put a foot wrong. Similarly to Dendoncker, Saiss is really stepping up for Wolves.

        Matt Doherty 7
      
Doherty should have scored in the first half but shot straight at Leno from 12 yards after being found unmarked by Jota. The Irishman limped off after smacking his knee on the turf in the second half and Wolves will hope it’s only a minor knock. 

        Ruben Neves 8.5
      
Neves was Wolves’ best performer on his 100th appearance for the club. The midfielder went close with a couple of efforts from range in the first half. 
The 3-4-3 formation allows Neves to play higher up and he’s having a bigger impact on games as a result. 

        Joao Moutinho 8
      
Wolves’ veteran playmaker was excellent in everything he did, whether it be tackling, passing or dead ball deliveries. 
Moutinho dropped a lobbed cross straight on top of Jimenez’s head for Wolves’ equaliser.
 

        Jonny Castro Otto 7.5
      
The Spaniard’s form has improved of late and this was another good game. He was rarely troubled defensively - on either side - and played his part in attack. 

        Adama Traore 6.5
      
Traore always has his moments with his searing pace too much for pretty much every Premier League left-back. Arsenal defender Tierney did very well in limiting Traore’s influence.

        Raul Jimenez 8
      
Jimenez always seems to score important goals and another one was added to his collection at The Emirates. In addition to that precise header in the 76th minute, Jimenez led the line superbly as he always seems to. That’s 11 goals this season for Wolves’ number nine. 

        Diogo Jota 8
      
This was a match where Jota did everything but score. The 22-year-old tortured the Gunners last season and they had no answer for him again. 
Jota so nearly scored a sublime winner in the last minute, but he couldn’t finish after dancing through Arsenal’s hapless defence. 
He showed his intelligence by taking a booking late on with Arsenal breaking in numbers. 

        SUBS
      
Ruben Vinagre (for Doherty, 71) 6
Added extra speed on the left flank but couldn’t create a chance of note. 
Pedro Neto (for Jota, 90) N/A
Not used: Ruddy, Kilman, Perry, Gibbs-White, Cutrone
