
# Starting XI: Real Madrid v Betis

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:47:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/laliga-starting-xi-real-madrid-v-real-betis-02-november-2019/666581)

Real Madrid play hosts to Real Betis on Saturday evening, as they look to build on their emphatic win in LaLiga earlier this week - Here's how the sides will line-up tonight.

        LaLiga
      
Teams: Real Madrid v Real Betis
Date: 02 November 2019
Venue: Santiago Bernabeu
The match is scheduled to get underway at 22h00.
Zinedine Zidane's charges got back to winning ways on Wednesday night, after thrashing Leganes 5-0 at the Santiago Bernabeu to reclaim spot.
Luka Jovic managed to get his first goal for the Spanish giants, and will be looking to bag another although he starts on the bench this evening.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
Gareth Bale, Nacho and Marco Asensio remain the only absentees for Los Blancos, who will come up against a Betis side high on confidence.
Betis got back to winning ways a few days ago with a 2-1 triumph over Celta Vigo, ending a four-game winless run in the Spanish top flight.
The Lilly Whites can take confidence from the face that they secured three points the last time these two sides met in league football, although Los Blancos claimed victory in the reverse fixture.

        Here's how they line up:
      
Real Madrid: Courtois, Carvajal, Ramos, Varane, Mendy, Kroos, Casemiro, Modric, Hazard, Rodrygo, Benzema.
Real Betis: Joel, Emerson, Mandi, Feddal, Sidnei, Moreno, Bartra, Guardado, Canales, Fekir, Loren.
