
# Arsenal 'make transfer promise' to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang amid Real Madrid interest

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:22:26+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/arsenal-make-transfer-promise-pierre-20820539)

Arsenal have reportedly promised Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang they will listen to offers if he decides he wants to leave the club.
Aubameyang is yet to commit his long-term future to the Gunners and reports suggest he will consider moving on at the end of the season if they cannot secure a return to Champions League football.
According to El Desmarque , Real Madrid president Florentino Perez is keen on a £69million move for the Gabonese striker, with the possibility of including James Rodriguez in a swap deal to lower the price.
And they claim Arsenal chiefs have told Aubayemang they will be open to offers if he decides his future lies elsewhere.
Aubameyang, who is under contract until the summer of 2021, is said to be keeping his options open rather than rushing into signing a new deal at the Emirates.
He was named as the new Arsenal captain by manager Unai Emery on Tuesday after Granit Xhaka was sacked from the role over his outburst at fans when substituted against Crystal Palace .
The striker was already involved in the leadership group at the Emirates, although a vote amongst players saw Xhaka given the nod before the season started.
Aubameyang captained the side at Wolves on Saturday and opened the scoring, his 50th goal for the club, before they were pegged back and held to a 1-1 draw.
The result means the Gunners are winless in their last three Premier League games, leaving them fifth in the table and looking set to face a huge battle to get back into the top four.
They take on Vitoria in Guimaraes on Wednesday afternoon with Aubameyang not making the trip to Portugal for the Europa League game.
