
# Barcelona superstar regrets rejecting the chance to join Real Madrid

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:56:05+00:00**

Author: **Atharva Khadilkar**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/07/barcelona-superstar-regrets-rejecting-chance-join-real-madrid/)

Atletico Madrid and Barcelona agreed to the 120 million euros’ transfer of Antoine Griezmann during the summer in rather controversial conditions. The France international publicly made a statement that he wanted the Rojiblancos this summer, but Barca were accused of illegally approaching the World Cup winning forward.
Nevertheless, the move eventually went through and Griezmann made a pretty decent start to life at the Camp Nou getting in on the act in his first few matches. However, the major characteristic between his scoring run then and barren run now is the absence and presence, respectively, of Leo Messi in the starting eleven.
It is no secret that when Lionel Messi’s is inducted in the Barcelona eleven, the team’s approach suddenly changes and all plays go through the Barca captain. Messi dictates almost every pass and is involved at the end of quite possibly every second ball. What has been noticed recently is that he however does not pass the ball to Griezmann as he would to Suarez or Neymar, or probably even Coutinho or Dembele in the past.
Griezmann is rightly dejected at the singling out that he has been the subject of during his time at the Camp Nou. It is believed that the former Real Sociedad striker is being the way he is as just one year prior to moving to the Catalans, he made a dramatic documentary rejecting Barca in favour of Atletico Madrid, which alienated most of the senior players.
Diario GOL has now suggested that the player regrets his choice of turning down an approach from Zinedine Zidane asking him to join Real Madrid during the summer. That said, Barca are looking to involve their star signing in a swap deal for Neymar and by the looks of it, Griezmann may very well be heading to Paris Saint-Germain next summer.
Do you think Antoine Griezmann is being treated rightly by Lionel Messi & Co.?
