
# Best Buy Is Bundling the ecobee4 Smart Thermostat & Switch+ For Just $249

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:59:11+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/best-buy-ecobee4-switch-plus-sale-black-friday-bundle.html)

Best Buy has a great bundle on sale right now, which gives you the ecobee4 smart thermostat and the ecobee Switch+, for the price of the ecobee4. That's just $249. That's a $79.99 value and definitely worth picking up right now.
The ecobee4 is a pretty good smart thermostat to pick up. It actually has an Echo built-in, so you can talk to Alexa on the wall in your home, which is really cool – the Switch+ has this as well. It's a way to really eliminate extra smart speakers in your home and still have Alexa virtually everywhere.
With the ecobee4, you're going to be able to adjust the temperature in your home with your voice and with the app on your smartphone. It works with Amazon Alexa (of course). Though there is support for Google Assistant, the support isn't as great as Alexa's support.
Advertisement
There are also room sensors that will help the ecobee4 see what the temperature is everywhere in your home, so every room stays warm, and some aren't all that much cooler than others.
With the Switch+, you're getting a smart light switch that also has Amazon Alexa built-in, and it also comes with a speaker in the switch – so Alexa can talk back to you. The cool part though, is the blue light. It looks really nice and works with Alexa. This is like having an Echo built into your wall. You can control the lights in that room with your voice, but you can also ask Alexa to play some music on your light switch – that is pretty insane when you think about it.
This bundle of the ecobee4 smart thermostat and the ecobee Switch+ isn't going to be available for long, so you'll want to grab it before it's gone. And you can pick up that bundle from Best Buy right now, by clicking here.
Advertisement

        ecobee4 & Switch+ - Best Buy - $249
      
