
# Barcelona ready approach for Lionel Messi’s compatriot boss

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:31:51+00:00**

Author: **Atharva Khadilkar**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/05/barcelona-ready-approach-lionel-messis-compatriot-boss/)

Barcelona are surrounded by complicated issues when it comes to Ernesto Valverde’s future. The Catalans are under pressure from the fans and reportedly some senior players as well to get rid of the manager, but they are being patient with Valverde as they have with previous managers. Moreover, their necessary replacements are not available.
Ronald Koeman is the first name on the Blaugrana wish-list. However, the former Everton boss is currently coaching the Netherlands’ national team and has an attractive Euro 2020 project ahead of him. Koeman has a clause in his contract that will allow him to go to Barca at the end of the tournament upon the payment of a buyout fee. But 2020 is too long to wait for Barca who risk seeing their season go down the drain.
Argentinian boss Marcelo Gallardo has been added to the shortlist by Barca as a potential new manager, Fox Sports says. Gallardo is currently on the books of South American superpower River Plate and has had five successful years at their helm. In his spell in the dugout, Gallardo has won 10 trophies including as many as seven international cups. He has won the Copa Libertadores, the South American equivalent of the Champions League twice.
Marcelo Gallardo was also a successful player with Argentina’s national team and won a silver medal with the Seleccion at the 1996 Olympics. He was formerly a player for Paris Saint-Germain and his exploits as the River Plate boss made him one of the most budding managers in the world, with that being further fuelled by Marcelo Gallardo’s nomination for the Best Manager Award by FIFA this year.
Ernesto Valverde will certainly take his side through the Champions League’s group stage, but the league remains Barca’s biggest challenge and consistency on the domestic front is considered important. The Blaugrana will return to league action over the coming weekend when they host Celta Vigo in a clash of two ends of La Liga standings.
Do you think Marcelo Gallardo will be able to replicate River Plate’s success at Barcelona?
