
# Death and agony are striving hard against life - diary reveals life on the front line in World War I for Scots soldier

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:36:05+00:00**

Author: **Marc McLean, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/marc-mclean/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/death-agony-striving-hard-against-20826367)

Almost 1000 young soldiers from Rutherglen and Cambuslang who fought for their country in World War One never came back to tell the tale.
Grieving mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters left behind could only imagine the horror their loves ones endured fighting on the frontline.
They couldn’t comprehend the level of fear, trauma, and bloodshed experienced by so many young men huddled together in filthy trenches exchanging gunfire with German enemies.
Lance Corporal John Smith, of the Seaforth Highlanders, was involved in notorious conflicts at the Battle of Loos in 1915 and Battle of the Somme in 1916.
The 22-year-old Rutherglen man was killed in the latter conflict in July 1916, and the military sent word back to his parents John and Margaret Smith at the family home in 7 Hamilton Road.
They also received his war medals – and their son’s diary where he detailed life in the trenches in France in 1916.
Remarkably, the diary remains intact to this day, and his great niece Lynda Smith has shared it with the Reformer ahead of Remembrance Day.
Below we share a series of entries written by the young soldier, penned just months before he laid down his life for his country.

        April 3rd, 1916.
      
It seems wonderful to me that birds should live and sing so near the trenches amidst shot and shell.
The other day I saw a flock of starlings at a height of about 20ft when a shell burst beneath them.
The concussion was so great that, like stones, they dropped to the ground dead.

        April 4th, 1916
      
We are going through what they call battle drill. Three parades a day, I rather enjoy it as a change.
The joke today is the marmalade boat. For a long time we had nothing but marmalade. The other day we got some jam so the rumour went about that the marmalade boat had been sunk. But next day, like the proverbial cat, the marmalade came back.

        April 12th, 1916
      
The weather has been fairly good except for today which has been very wet. I am like the mistle thrush, I love the rain and the wind.
I shall never forget that walk Ella and I had the last morning I had at home while on pass.
We went round Cathkin and Carmunnock with the wind driving the rain in our faces. We both enjoyed that little walk.

        April 15th, 1916
      
This morning we came out of our trenches and returned back to our billets.
The main benefit of being out is that you get a few francs and a decent sleep at night.
Many rumours are flying about that we are shifting...where, no one knows.

        April 24th, 1916
      
Today has been an eventful day. Three enemy planes were brought down this morning by our artillery, pretty good shooting.
Next we hear that the French have had success and also that two hundred thousand Russians have landed in France.
A big push must be coming. I wonder if this year will finish it?

        April 26th, 11pm
      
The morning being so fine, I thought it would be a shame to go back to bed after stand-down.
Stand-to is at 3am and stand-down is at 4am. From 4am to 7am we have the time to ourselves.
Paddy and I lit a fire and made some coffee. What a grand life it would be if it weren’t for these cursed shells and bullets.
I find that if I concentrate my mind I can dream of any subject that suits me.

        April 27th, 3pm.
      
I thought we were for the jump this morning. At 6 o’clock this morning the gas gongs and horns suddenly rang out.
It was the weird hoot of the gas horns that awakened me and the shout of that horrible little word gas.
It seemed like a nightmare. Faster than it takes time to write, the alarm travelled across the line. The ancient Peruvians could not have excelled us, every man was on the alert with one thought in his mind and that was to get his gas helmet on.

        April 29th
      
A violent bombardment is going on, the sky is lit up with the flash of guns, bursting shrapnel and shooting star shells.
Amidst the din can be heard the alarm gongs, while the neighbouring church bells are feeding out the warning to civilian population.
It is truly a remarkable sight...
...death and agony are striving hard against life.
