
# Ellen DeGeneres to Receive the Carol Burnett Award at the Golden Globes

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:09:11+00:00**

Author: **Zoe Haylock**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/2019/11/ellen-degeneres-carol-burnett-award-golden-globes.html)

Comedian and television host Ellen DeGeneres is set to be honored with the Carol Burnett Award at the 77th Annual Golden Globes ceremony next year. She is only the second recipient of this award, which the Hollywood Foreign Press Association gives to someone who has made an outstanding contribution to television both on and off the screen. The inaugural award went to Carol Burnett herself. Ellen DeGeneres began her long career as a stand-up comedian, starred in a sitcom, and now, of course, hosts The Ellen DeGeneres Show during the day. The Carol Burnett Award is a television counterpart to the Cecil B. DeMille Award, which the HFPA also awards at the Golden Globes. The ceremony will take place on January 5, 2020, at 8 p.m.
“The Hollywood Foreign Press Association is delighted to honor Ellen DeGeneres with the Carol Burnett Award,” said Lorenzo Soria, president of the HFPA, to Deadline. “From her sitcoms, to stand-up, to becoming a household staple on daytime television, she is a pioneer who has captivated audiences for nearly 25 years with her undeniable charm and wit. In addition to her television success, she’s an advocate and philanthropist, lending her voice to those who don’t have one, and spreading kindness and joy through the power of her platform. We look forward to celebrating her achievements at this year’s ceremony.”
