
# Hunt for vandal targeting cars in Keyham and Ford

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:23:13+00:00**

Author: **Carl Eve**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/hunt-vandal-targeting-cars-keyham-3508590)

A vandal who has been targeting cars in Keyham and Ford over the past month and a half is being hunted by police.
Investigators say several vehicles have been hit in the two areas during the last six weeks, with the culprit sometimes repeatedly vandalising cars.
Some victims have revealed their cars have suffered scratches, being scrawled over with black marker pens and sprayed with a red paint, often two or three times within hours of each attack.
Others have had their car tyres slashed or stabbed with a sharp implement.
One female victim told Plymouth Live that their car was repeatedly vandalised in Alfred Road, leaving them fearful that they were being personally sought out by the suspect.
She suffered the first attack on September 21 and has since seen her car, a white Fiat 500, hit several more times, with tyres slashed, bodywork scratched or marked or painted on.
Police believe there may be more victims in those areas, but they have yet to come forward because they have even passed it off as a one-off or have been able to wipe clean their vehicles - particularly those where a red paint has been used - and decided not to report it as a criminal damage.
A police spokesman has told Plymouth Live the attacks appear to have taken place "predominantly" at night and have been focused in the Keyham and Ford areas.
They say they are very keen to hear from anyone who has been spotted acting suspicious in these areas during the evenings and appear to be loitering around vehicles.
If you have been a victim, or have seen any suspicious activity, or have any information about the possible suspect, then call police on 101 or email 101@dc.police.uk or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111 quoting crime reference number CR/084968/19.
