
# Maria Butina claims racism against Russians to blame for her incarceration

Published at: **2019-11-04T02:52:23+00:00**

Author: **Caitlin Yilek**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/maria-butina-claims-racism-against-russians-to-blame-for-her-incarceration)

Maria Butina claimed her arrest and incarceration were motivated by “racism” against Russians.
Butina, who was not charged with espionage, was released from prison last month and immediately deported to Moscow, months after she pleaded guilty to conspiring to act as an agent of the Russian government without registering with the Justice Department.
The Russian national showed defiance in a feisty interview with 60 Minutes on Sunday. The interview was filmed while Butina was incarcerated at a Florida prison.
“Tell me that there is no racism here against the Russians. Oh, please. It is,” Butina, 30, said.
“I think it’s an American, very old saying, that suggests that wolves have teeth, but not all animals with teeth are wolves. You cannot judge a person based on appearance,” she said.
Butina denied playing any role in Russian interference in the 2016 election, which came at the same time she was cultivating relationships with conservative politicians while trying to infiltrate the NRA.
“If I were not Russian, that would be called social networking,” she said.
She also claimed she did not know whether Alexander Torshin, a longtime figure in Russian politics of whom she acted at the direction, had connections to Russian President Vladimir Putin, despite writing to him that he was an “influential member of Putin’s team.”
“It doesn’t suggest he’s close to Putin in any way,” Butina argued, also dismissing the notion that she and Torshin were taking direction from someone high up in the Russian government as “conspiracy theories.”
