
# One of Baghdadi's wives was secretly captured before ISIS leader 'died like a dog'

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:15:48+00:00**

Author: **Amber Hicks, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/one-baghdadis-wives-secretly-captured-20829061)

Turkey captured one of Baghdadi's wives more than a year ago but only revealed the news today as they didn't 'want to make a fuss'.
The announcement comes more than a week after the evil ISIS leader was "obliterated" and "died like a dog" during a raid in Syria by U.S. special forces.
The hate-filled thug spent his final moments in "utter fear, total panic and dread" before detonating a suicide vest in a tunnel where he dragged three kids with him.
Turkey's President Tayyip Erdogan announced the news earlier today of the wife's capture, which also comes after other family members of the killer were apprehended.
 
However, Mr Erdogan appeared to take a swipe at the way the U.S announced Baghdadi's death, which was revealed to the world by President Donald Trump during a press conference at the White House. 
Mr Erdogan said: "The United States said Baghdadi killed himself in a tunnel. They started a communication campaign about this.
"But, I am announcing it here for the first time: We captured his wife and didn't make a fuss like them.
"Similarly, we also captured his sister and brother in law in Syria."
 
He gave no further details.
A senior Turkish official said that the operation in which Baghdadi's wife was detained took place on June 2, 2018 when Turkish police captured a group of 11 Islamic State suspects in Turkey's Hatay province.
He said one of the four women caught in the operation identified herself as someone else but was in fact Asma Fawzi Muhammad Al-Qubaysi - Baghdadi's first wife.
"We discovered her real identity pretty quickly. At that point, she volunteered a lot of information about Baghdadi and the inner workings of ISIS," the official said, adding that the information led to a series of arrests elsewhere.
A DNA test confirmed that another suspect was Baghdadi's daughter, and the detainees were being held at a deportation centre in Turkey.
Earlier this week, a senior Turkish official said Turkey had captured Baghdadi's sister, her husband and daughter-in-law.
They added that they hoped to gain intelligence from them about Islamic State, although they has not said what knowledge they may have had about the group's operations.
Baghdadi rose from obscurity to lead the ultra-hardline group and declare himself caliph of all Muslims, holding sway over huge areas of Iraq and Syria from 2014-2017 before Islamic State's control was wrested away by a U.S.-led coalition.
World leaders have welcomed his death, but they and security experts warned that the group, which carried out atrocities against religious minorities and horrified most Muslims, remained a security threat in Syria and beyond.
U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo previously said two of Baghdadi's wives had also been killed at the site of last month's raid.
The group said a successor to Baghdadi, identified as Abu Ibrahim al-Hashemi al-Quraishi, had been appointed.
A senior U.S. official said last week that Washington was looking at the new leader to determine where he came from.
