
# The Ryan Jack Rangers mentality change that shows side won't accept second prizes - Barry Ferguson

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Barry Ferguson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/barry-ferguson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/ryan-jack-rangers-mentality-change-20783777)

I’ll be honest. A year ago I wasn’t sure Ryan Jack was really cut out to be a top-level Rangers player.
Don’t get me wrong, he had all the bits and pieces required to be a very decent midfield player. He was neat and tidy and could keep games ticking over. A solid six out of 10 week in week out. Always dependable but never dominant.
And I thought he might get a decent career out of it and probably even stick around at Ibrox as part of the first-team plans for a few seasons.
But the Jack I’ve seen since around the start of 2019 is a completely different proposition and the way he bossed things from start to finish the other night in Dingwall was just further proof of the changes and of the improvements he has made over the course of the last 10 months.
Before we go any further I can almost hear the reaction to what I’ve just written. “Calm doon Barry – it was only Ross f****** County, ya clown!”
And that’s true.
But I’m not judging Jack on the back of 90 minutes in the Highlands. I’m looking at a guy who has transformed himself in a short space of time and who now looks every inch like a proper Rangers player. A guy who’s learned the difference between being a decent professional and being a winner.
That’s what I see when I look at him now. Not just someone who might stick around for a few seasons at my old club and earn a decent wage. But a real leader who has the potential to become a mainstay in the Rangers team for years and years to come.
Where once he looked happy just to be out there now he seems determined to dictate games and take them by the scruff of the neck.
That’s a huge change and it makes all the difference where playing for Rangers is concerned.
The challenge now for him is to maintain this kind of form. Since the start of the year he has shown he can control games from the middle of the park. Make a killer pass, score goals, track back, cover for the centre-backs, make tackles, influence all aspects of the team.
But it’s about doing that until the end of the season and influencing the destiny of the title. Then doing it all again next season and the season after.
That’s what separates the really top players from the rest but Jack has shown enough already to convince me he really has everything it takes.
People will look across the city at Celtic’s No.8 and wonder if Jack could do for Rangers what Scott Brown has done in a Celtic shirt.
I’ve got two issues with that. The first is the No.6 shirt is the one every midfield man wants to wear.
The second is Jack doesn’t need to look outside his own dressing room to see what he can become.
It’s no coincidence to me this transformation in Jack dates back to when Steve Davis returned to the club.
Nothing helps to raise your game quite like playing alongside better players and there is no doubt Jack’s own game has come on leaps and bounds since Davo came in.
Also, in Steven Gerrard and Gary McAllister he could not be working under two better men in terms of learning the position. With those two in the dugout and Davo to dovetail with on the pitch he is surrounded by guys who can take him to another level.
But it’s one thing being in a lucky position, it’s another thing entirely to be intelligent enough to realise it and be prepared to put the work in to make the most of the opportunity.
Jack looks like he has worked his socks off over the last few months and deserves all the credit in the world for the improvements.
So when Davo wasn’t available the other night in Dingwall, Jack was ready, willing and capable of dominating the middle of the park and leading the team on his own.
Look at the way he took his goals. We’re not talking about a couple of thunderbolts from a guy trying his luck. This was a guy on top of his game, absolutely brimming with confidence, who picked his spot from 20 yards out.
That’s when you know you are looking at a player who truly believes in his own ability to effect matches and to carry his team-mates. He looks like he believes he can take anyone on and that’s exactly the attitude you need to win trophies.
And I see the change in Jack mirrored throughout the entire team. Look at the win they scraped over Motherwell. Just like Jack’s determined not to let games pass him by any more, Rangers as a team were simply not prepared to let three points get away.
Just like Jack they went and did something about it.
Last season? I’m really not sure they had the resolve and spirit to dig themselves out of that hole. They’d have accepted the point and moved on to the next week.
And, bit by bit they found the title getting away from them too.
Jack now looks like a player no longer prepared to accept second prizes and I’m delighted to see that same attitude spreading.
It’s important to remember they’ve won nothing yet but for the first time they’re now close enough to breathe down Celtic’s neck.
I’m loving every minute of it.
