
# Quentin Tarantino reveals his favourite film of 2019 – and it's not his own

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:03:12+00:00**

Author: **Jacob Stolworthy**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/films/news/quentin-tarantino-favourite-film-2019-once-upon-a-time-in-hollywood-crawl-alligator-a9186961.html)

Quentin Tarantino may have been busy releasing a new film in 2019, but that hasn’t stopped him from going to the cinema.
Every year, the director gets very vocal about the films he has been enjoying over the past 12 months, and – despite it being only November – he has named his favourite movie of the year.
Tarantino was a big fan of Crawl, the Sam Raimi-produced alligator thriller released this summer.
The film follows a young woman (played by Kaya Scodelario) who, while trying to save her father (Barry Pepper) during a Category Five hurricane in Florida, finds herself trapped in a flooding house with nothing for company but alligators.
Tarantino named the film as his favourite to Deadline journalist Pete Hammond. 
“Tarantino told me that, as incredible as he says it might sound, he thinks his favourite film so far this year just might be – wait for it – Crawl,” he wrote. “That’s right, the alligators-in-a-hurricane movie directed by Alexandre Aja that Paramount released a couple of weeks before QT’s movie came out in July.”
It is nice to know that, despite being busy with the press tour for his own film, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Tarantino found time to seek out the competition.
Sony is pushing Tarantino’s film for Best Picture, Best director and Best Original Screenplay at next year’s Oscars. Campaigns have also been launched for its lead stars, Leonardo DiCaprio and Brad Pitt, in the Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor categories, respectively.
