
# Proteas women star to join Spartans as ambassador

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:08:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Cricket/MzansiSuperLeague/proteas-women-star-to-join-spartans-as-ambassador-20191104)

Cape Town - Proteas women's all-rounder Sune Luus has been named as the official Tshwane Spartans media ambassador for the second edition of the Mzansi Super League.
Luus, who recently captained the Proteas in India, has opted to spend the start of her summer with the Pretoria-franchise.
The 23-year-old will be conducting post-match interviews for the Spartans' digital channels.
"I'm very excited to be joining the Tshwane Spartans team this year. I think it'll be a great experience and a massive opportunity to gain as much exposure to the other side of the lens," said Luus.
"I believe this is an opportunity to lay a platform for potentially pursuing a career in media, after cricket. Being part of a team like the Spartans, surrounded by an awesome bunch of guys and support staff, will certainly help me enjoy this experience.
"They have a very strong side this year, with the likes of AB, Lungi and Heinrich just to mention a few. I think they have a very good chance of competing, if not winning the competition."
Luus is no stranger at SuperSport Park in Centurion, as the stadium has played a defining role in her career.
"My earliest memory of SuperSport Park dates back to when I was 13 and I was selected for the Titans team. There's a photo of me taking my first wicket and I remember pulling an Imran Tahir-like celebration, running a lap around the field," she said.
"It’s always been a great for cricket and that's where (SuperSport Park) my love the game grew. My dad used to take me to watch cricket, as we played cricket on the embankments it sparked my interest in the game.
"One of the best things about SuperSport Park is the grass embankments, where parents and friends come together to enjoy a game of cricket. There's always a vibe and always good crowd attendance and I have no doubt that'll be the case this summer."
Luus has played 67 T20s across the globe, taking 41 wickets, including a career best 5-8 against Ireland in the Women's World T20 in 2016.
Her inclusion is welcomed by Spartans' head coach, Mark Boucher.
"She's on top of her game, playing at the highest level and she’s played in the Big Bash, so she certainly will be well respected in the change room," enthused Boucher.
"There's continuous push to get the women’s game up and running and it's happening worldwide. As much as she'll be picking up a few things from us, it'll be a great opportunity for us to learn a few things from her. We're excited to have her in our camp."
The Spartans are less than a week away from opening their campaign against Durban Heat on Saturday, November 9 at Kingsmead (12:30).

        
          - Tshwane Spartans
        
      
