
# VSTECS 3Q net profit up 7.7%, declares 2.5 sen dividend

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:56:57+00:00**

Author: **Wong Ee Lin**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/vstecs-3q-net-profit-77-declares-25-sen-dividend)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 7): VSTECS Bhd’s, or formerly known as ECS ICT Bhd, net profit grew 7.71% to RM8.26 million or 4.6 sen per share in the third quarter ended Sept 30, 2019 (3QFY19) from RM7.67 million or 4.3 sen per share in the same period last year, thanks to higher sales.
The company attributed higher earnings to better gross profit, lower finance income and bigger share of profit in joint venture and associate.
Its quarterly revenue was also up 5.36% at RM459.57 million from RM436.21 million due to improved market sentiment, according to a filing with Bursa Malaysia today.
The group declared an interim dividend of 2.5 sen per share for the financial year ended Dec 31, 2019 (FY19), payable on Dec 18.
For the nine months of FY19 (9MFY19), the net profit increased 15.55% to RM18.86 million or 10.5 sen per share from RM16.32 million or 9.1 sen per share last year, while revenue grew 6.24% to RM1.26 billion from RM1.19 billion.
On the company’s prospects, considering better consumer spending during the year-end holiday season and higher billings of enterprise systems for projects, the company is optimistic for 4QFY19.
On the Enterprise systems business segment, VSTECS is expecting several large projects for the commercial and public sectors to be concluded in 4QFY19.
Nonetheless, the company noted that the overall market sentiment for Malaysia remains challenging as consumers and businesses continued with their cautious ICT spending.
“We are excited to see healthy growth in PBT (profit before tax) for 9MFY19 and our newly acquired associate company ISATEC Sdn Bhd contributed RM1.1 million to our bottom line,” said VSTECS chief executive officer Soong Jan Hsung, in a separate statement today.
“Our performance year to date is a good representation of the trajectory for FY19 and we expect a few more large projects to be completed by the end of the year,” he added.
For the Enterprise Systems and ICT Services Segments, Soong said the company has experienced increased activities from corporations and the public sector with implementation of IT infrastructure upgrades and software renewals driven by digitalisation and automation initiatives.
Shares of VSTECS closed one sen lower at RM1.06 today, valuing the company at RM189.84 million.
