
# Left 4 Dead and Half-Life 2 Writer Chet Faliszek is Working on a New FPS

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:38:35+00:00**

Author: **Alistair Jones**

Original: [Kotaku UK](https://www.kotaku.co.uk/2019/11/06/left-4-dead-and-half-life-2-writer-chet-faliszek-is-working-on-a-new-fps)

Former Valve writer Chet Faliszek says he’s working on a new co-op FPS. Speaking during the Reboot Develop conference last week (via VG247), Faliszek announced that his new studio, Stray Bombay, is “making a first-person network shooter.”
Until now, the studio - which Faliszek founded alongside former Riot developer Kimberly Voll - had only stated that it was interested in creating co-op games. That said, Faliszek is at least partly responsible for both Left 4 Dead games as well as being involved with CS:GO, the Portal series and the Half-Life 2 episodes, meaning a foray back into multiplayer first-person shooters isn’t too much of a surprise.
Details about Stray Bombay’s are scarce, but Faliszek did offer a few tidbits. He confirmed that the new game is made in Unreal, and focuses on building on existing technology rather than breaking new ground. He also mentioned “20-30 minute play sessions,” in which you play as a character who remains the same throughout the game.
That sounds a lot like Left 4 Dead, but Faliszek says that the studio is trying to change up traditional matchmaking. For example, if it realises you and your party are on a winning streak, it’ll ramp up the challenge, and if you’ve found success with a player once before, it’ll try and match you with them again - “for us, the metrics are about social, it’s not about skill.”
Well well well Chet, if indeed that is your real name. He knows that only one metric will matter come release, and that is how this baby stacks up in the crate review system.
