
# Top 40 best things about Britain include fish and chips, NHS and Royal Family

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:02:34+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Wilkes, Astrid Hall, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/top-40-best-things-britain-20809962)

Country pubs, the Royal family and being able to stuff anything into a sandwich are among the very best things about Britain.
A study of 2,000 Brits found the seaside classic, fish and chips, topped the poll followed by the NHS and a traditional Sunday roast.
Afternoon tea with the addition of finger sandwiches and cake, beat an English cuppa by a small margin.
Telly legends Ant and Dec and talking about the weather also featured in the top 40 list.
Also among the greatest things about our fair nation were truly British qualities including sarcasm, a firm handshake, apologising for everything and a willingness to queue.
 
The research was commissioned by British Seniors Insurance, which also found eight in 10 are proud of their heritage.
Oliver Harcourt, a spokesman for British Seniors Insurance, said: "Our research shows that as a nation we continue to be overwhelmingly proud of being British, and of the great things that make us Brits.
"From food such as fish & chips and roast dinners, to historic landmarks or unpredictable weather, Britons love what makes them British."
To celebrate the best of being a Brit, British Seniors created a puzzle to test the nation on their knowledge of what we love.
Readers will find an average of 19 clues before giving in to peek at the answers, and those who successfully complete the puzzle take an average of 134 seconds.
Click here to have a go for yourself, and see how you fare against our fair nation.
A funny video captured the nation's reactions to where our fond favourites placed on the top 40 list.
Passers-by were tested on where they thought things placed on the list with the Royal family , roast dinners and talking about the weather among some of the topics discussed.
The study also found more than two-thirds reckon Brits are better at queueing than any other nation.
And also, in typical British fashion, nearly a third of respondents said if faced with snaking ropes and no queue, they would walk the whole way without skipping over of the ropes.
More than half reckon other nationalities think we're a country obsessed with the weather, with two-fifths saying other nations think we drink tea like tap water.
And two in five admitted they ring true to stereotypes and have a stiff upper lip.
With fish and chips topping the poll, half the nation agreed they would happily enjoy the British staple in the pouring rain with an equal percentage always up for an ice-cream whatever the weather.
It also emerged 52 per cent of respondents, surveyed via OnePoll, will enjoy a roast dinner nearly every Sunday.
And six in 10 will pack their favourite brand of teabag during a trip to ensure they get their daily dosage of breakfast tea - three a day to be precise.
Nine in 10 of those polled said they enjoy being British, with three in four describing themselves as patriotic.
Oliver Harcourt added: "The research also highlights that above all, family is the most important thing to Brits and that we take pride in looking after our loved ones.
"British Seniors Insurance is proud to help Britons throughout the country protect their families with our Guaranteed Over 50s Life Insurance."
1. Fish and Chips 2. The NHS 3. Roast dinners 4. A full English breakfast 5. Countryside 6. Country pubs 7. The Royal family 8. The seaside 9. Castles 10. Cadbury chocolate 11. Afternoon tea 12. Breakfast tea 13. Scones 14. Buckingham Palace 15. Big Ben 16. London 17. Hot puddings with custard, like treacle sponge or spotted dick 18. Talking about the weather 19. Shakespeare 20. Sarcasm 21. Driving on the left (correct side) 22. The variety of accents 23. Bacon cooked right 24. Baked beans 25. The Music 26. Brick built houses 27. Digestive biscuits 28. Putting anything in a sandwich (crisps, fish fingers etc) 29. Queueing 30. Its diverse culture 31. Teacakes 32. Apologising for everything 33. Rich tea biscuits 34. Cider 35. Cheddar Gorge 36. Having BBQs even if it's raining 37. A firm handshake 38. The London Marathon 39. Black pudding 40. Ant & Dec
