
# New investors must reserve jobs for locals

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/new-investors-must-reserve-jobs-for-locals/articleshow/71844369.cms)

The Cabinet on Thursday decided to direct all private investors in the State to reserve Group C and D jobs for Kannadigas. Group C and D jobs basically include clerical, floor level jobs and attendants. Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said that the new policy of job reservation in private sector will be applicable for new investors in Karnataka. “The aim is to generate more jobs for rural Kannadigas. The 2016 policy on the job reservation in private sector also has scope for providing higher rank jobs to Kannadigas,’’ he said. Meanwhile, the Cabinet also approved the new Textile Policy (2019-24) for the next five years. The Law Minister said that the government will infuse Rs 10,000 crore in the form of subsidy for the next five years to revive the textile sector. Value addition The Minister said that the government has decided not to export the excess six million iron ore excavated from the State every year. “Instead, it was decided to do value addition and sell the iron to small spare parts manufacturing companies,’’ he said. Second set of uniforms Based on directions of the High Court, the Cabinet decided to provide an additional Rs 250 each for second set of school uniforms. Earlier, the government was providing just one set of uniform for government school students of first and eighth grade.
