
# 18 years before Planet Zoo, everyone loved Zoo Tycoon

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:41:57+00:00**

Author: **Nicole Carpenter**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/5/20678783/zoo-tycoon-retrospective-blue-fang-games-planet-zoo)

The orangutans are unhappy. You can tell because of the tiny, red frowning faces that have popped up above their heads. Sometimes, it’s because the wrong food has been placed in their habitat. They hate the trees that you’ve planted. Maybe you can’t keep up with the animal poop, and now the zoo’s patrons are throwing up, too. This is a normal day at work in Blue Fang’s Zoo Tycoon, the management simulation game published by Microsoft in 2001.
As a kid, I wanted nothing more than to be in the presence of all the animals I loved, whether that was scooping their poop or studying their movement. Plenty of my friends did, too. We lived out these fantasies in books and by playing pretend, dreaming up the research centers we’d fund, the animals we’d rehabilitate, and the fur we’d snuggle up to at night. For many of us, we realized the unlikeliness of these dreams becoming reality. Many wild animals won’t thrive in captivity — there are many for-profit zoos that are, frankly, inhumane — and being a zookeeper certainly didn’t mean we’d be petting wild animals day-by-day.
I was 13 when Zoo Tycoon was released. I wanted to be a veterinarian — someone who helped injured animals, the wilder the better. I was enamored by Zoo Tycoon and the freedom it gave me to create something in a way I’d only ever dream about. In particular, I remember building a single enclosure the size of the lot for a pride of lions, my favorite animal at the time. I spent hours constructing the perfect environment from them: all the right trees for shade, lots of dirt, and plenty of food. I tested out scenarios, adding gazelles and other animals to the enclosures. They never lasted long.
Zoo Tycoon was popular for plenty of reasons, among them the ability to curate your own experience. Players could pick and choose how to play. There is, of course, a technical way to win: engage in the capitalistic practice of increasing profits. You are a tycoon, after all. But the reason many latched onto the game is because they could play it however they pleased. I used cheats to have infinite money, and I never had to worry about guest satisfaction. Instead, I just watched the animals interact. In more mischievous moments, I created zoos for the sole purpose of reigning chaos, “forgetting” to close in an animal only for it to wreak havoc on my guests.
Just like in The Sims, I was telling my stories — just with animals instead of humans.
Blue Fang started with a small team of developers set up in co-founder Adam Levesque’s basement.
“We were just starting out and didn’t really have money to spend on an expensive office space,” Levesque told Polygon. “My wife said it was alright, and we just packed into the space — well, not really packed. There were four of us.”
But the company moved into an office when it began work on Zoo Tycoon, growing from those first four to 20 employees. But before there was Zoo Tycoon, Blue Fang considered another simulation-style game: Airport Tycoon. Like Zoo Tycoon, it was meant to be a riff on game developer Chris Sawyer’s 1999 theme park sim RollerCoaster Tycoon. The idea didn’t make it far out of Blue Fang president Hank Howie’s office after being suggested by studio co-founder John Wheeler.
“I get the ‘Tycoon’ thing,” Howie told Wheeler, the former studio president told Polygon. “But RollerCoaster Tycoon is popular because there’s roller coasters. They’re fun places. Airports aren’t fun places for the most part. People are usually stressed out.”
Howie said that Wheeler asked him not to mention the idea to anyone while he worked it out.
“Of course, the next person who walked into my office, I mentioned it to them,” Howie said. “That was Brian Shea, one of our very early employees. And he says, ‘Airport Tycoon? Why wouldn’t we make, like, Zoo Tycoon?’”
Zoo Tycoon was not wildly different than the other tycoon games popular in the late ’90s. RollerCoaster Tycoon can be credited for the increase of tycoon-esque games that were released in the 2000s, but it certainly wasn’t the first. Before it, there were plenty of games that took on the “Tycoon” naming convention and shared similar gameplay: MicroProse’s Sid Meier’s Railroad Tycoon, Software 2000’s Pizza Tycoon, and another game by RollerCoaster Tycoon creator Sawyer, Transport Tycoon.
Zoo Tycoon starts with a plot of land. Players must clear land to gain resources to build enclosures, each of which will differ depending on the animal that’ll live there. Wheeler said it was important that there were few barriers to entry. All you need to do to start is to build a fence. From there, animals can live together or alone, depending on preference. Some animals can live in habitats that mimic their natural environment — each has needs that need to be met to keep the animals happy, including habitat, diet, shelter, and enrichment.
“[The team] quickly became experts on animal behavior and zoology,” Howie said. “They almost attained an Encyclopedia-level knowledge of animal behaviors and environments.”
Blue Fang art director Fred Galpern said that there was tons of research involved in the development of Zoo Tycoon.
