
# FBM KLCI down 7.5pts as index seen overbought

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:12:56+00:00**

Author: **Syahirah Syed Jaafar**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/fbm-klci-down-75pts-index-seen-overbought)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 1): The FBM KLCI fell 7.5 points or 0.47% at Bursa Malaysia's afternoon close today amid US-China trade deal uncertainties and after analysts said the benchmark index was in overbought zone.
"After racking some 3% gains over the past couple of weeks with the key index already at the overbought zone, a retreat is in store. The fresh uncertainties over the Sino-US trade deal may also serve as an excuse for profit taking activities to take precedence," Malacca Securities Sdn Bhd said in a note today.
At 12:30pm, the KLCI settled down at 1,590.48 on profit taking after closing up 17.98 points or 1.14% at 1,597.98 yesterday.
Today, volume across Bursa stood at 1.73 billion shares worth RM723.39 million, as KLCI components including Public Bank Bhd and Hong Leong Financial Group Bhd settled among top decliners.
Malaysian shares had today tracked US stocks' Thursday overnight drop amid US-China trade deal uncertainties.
Reuters reported that US stocks fell on Thursday as conflicting tones surrounding a possible trade deal between the US and China eclipsed strong earnings reports from Apple and Facebook.
It was reported that mixed signals around trade gave investors reason for caution after a Bloomberg report said Chinese officials have doubts about whether it is possible to reach a comprehensive long-term trade deal with Washington and US President Donald Trump.
"But Trump later said the two countries would soon announce a site where a 'Phase One' trade deal will be signed after Chile cancelled a planned summit set for mid-November that was to be the venue for a signing," Reuters said.
