
# Scots chef who pierced pal's backside with broom in horrific workplace prank spared jail

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:54:55+00:00**

Author: **David Meikle**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/scots-chef-who-pierced-pals-20815844)

A chef who left a colleague with horrific internal injuries after piercing his backside with a broom in a workplace prank gone wrong has been spared jail.
Gary Trice, 29, was employed at the Rainforest Adventure Softplay in East Kilbride , Lanarkshire, when he attempted to copy a stunt he had watched on a Facebook page called 'On The Tools'.
He placed the handle of a brush under kitchen porter Lewis Mitchell after asking him to fetch cupcake holders from the top of a fridge.
But when the 21-year-old lost his grip on the fridge he crashed into the broom handle which pierced his anus, went through the intestines and stopped just short of his stomach.
 
He was rushed to hospital and given emergency treatment where the full extent of his agonising injuries were uncovered.
The kitchen porter, who was unable to begin his second year at university as a result of the incident, later sued the softplay owners and was awarded a six-figure sum at the Court of Session.
Trice, of Paisley, appeared at Hamilton Sheriff Court where he admitted culpable and reckless conduct in February 2016.
He has been ordered to complete 220 hours of unpaid work.
Depute fiscal Vish Kathuria said: "On the day in question, it was 5pm and the centre was getting busy with customers and the complainer was asked to take a new employee into the kitchen where the accused and another chef were working.
"At this time the accused approached the complainer and asked him to grab some cup-cake holders from the top of a fridge.
"The complainer found this request strange but complied and placed two hands on the fridge and pulled himself up.
"The complainer his hand on top of the fridge and as he was doing so unbeknown to him the accused had placed the handle of a sweeping brush underneath the complainer's bottom in full view of others.
"The complainer lost his grip and dropped down towards the ground and as a result the brush handle went through his trousers and underwear and penetrated his anus, perforating his intestines and stopping just short of his stomach.
"He felt excruciating pain travel through him and screamed out as he fell into the arms of the accused and was in such pain that he bit on the accused's shoulder.
"He immediately made his way to the toilet and observed a significant amount of blood. He was pale and in a lot of distress."
Neal McShane, defending, said: "He accepts this has been a very reckless act."
 
Sheriff David Bicket said: "I appreciate that this was not malicious but it was extremely reckless and had tragic consequences for the person concerned. It was an idiotic piece of behaviour.
"You have no analogous record and having read the terms of the report, I can deal with this by way of a non-custodial sentence but I should also say it would well merit a custodial sentence in other circumstances.
"This is a direct alternative to custody and if you don't do it then that will be uppermost in the court's mind."
Speaking after the case, Mr Mitchell said he had not seen Trice since the horror incident and wanted to 'move on' with his life.
