
# Man arrested after 15 people found alive in lorry in Wiltshire

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:19:46+00:00**

Author: **PA Media**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2019/nov/07/man-arrested-after-15-people-found-alive-in-lorry-in-wiltshire)


        One person taken to hospital after police alerted to ‘suspicious activity’ near Chippenham
      
Fifteen people have been found in the back of a lorry in Wiltshire following reports of suspicious activity involving the vehicle.
Wiltshire police said they closed the A350 at the Kington Langley crossroads near Chippenham after being called by a member of the public shortly before 8.30pm on Wednesday. A man in his 50s has been arrested on suspicion of assisting with illegal entry and is in custody in Swindon.
All of the people who were discovered in the lorry are believed to be over the age of 16 and none is thought to be in a serious condition, according to police. One person has been taken to hospital for further checks while the others have been taken into custody.
A police spokesman said: “We were called by a member of the public shortly before 8.30pm this evening following a report of suspicious activity involving a lorry on the A350 near Chippenham.
“Officers attended the scene and located 15 people in the rear of the vehicle. At this early stage of our investigation, we believe they are all over the age of 16.”
The road closure was expected to stay in place while the lorry was recovered.
It comes after eight people were arrested earlier this week by Vietnamese police in connection with the 39 migrants found dead in a lorry in Essex. They were held on Sunday on suspicion of organising people smuggling overseas.
