
# Adidas unveil official Euro 2020 match ball ahead of next summer's tournament

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:14:23+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/adidas-unveil-official-euro-2020-20828448)

With the 2020 European Championship fast approaching, Adidas have released the new official match ball which will be used be the 24 participating teams.
The Uniforia - named in honour of the unity and the euphoria that football can bring - is designed to celebrate the togetherness that next year’s tournament will inspire across the continent as part of its new look.
The revamped format will see the competition played out across 12 different European countries for the first time ever.
And drawing inspiration from the tournament’s new look, Uniforia’s design commemorates the notion of crossing bridges, blending borders and diversity of fan and athlete through a unique collision of art and football.
The design of the ball features bold, black brush-stroke style lines running across the ball, symbolising the blurring of boundaries and crossing of borders as reflective of the competition’s new transcontinental format.
This new ball offers the same high-performance structure and panels as recent FIFA World Cup models, but with a unique 'Hi-White' material – allowing for better visibility on the pitch for players.
Anika Marie Kennaugh, product designer at Adidas, said: “When designing an official match ball, we always look to reflect culture; what is the spirit of the street that we can proudly showcase in the stadium.
"What we saw in our cities – all our key cities – is the need to come together and unite for change.
"As one of the major sporting events in the world, Euro 2020 is a great opportunity to proudly showcase the power of unity and to celebrate sport as a connector of people, ideas and creativity.”
The Euro 2020 games will take place in 12 host cities – London, Glasgow, Dublin, Bilbao, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, St. Petersburg, Munich, Budapest, Rome, Bucharest and Baku.
The GPS coordinates of each stadium feature within intricate designs on Uniforia, commemorating this unique and historic format.
The ball was revealed on Wednesday night at a star-studded event in London, attended by a host of footballers including Chelsea trio N’Golo Kante, Michy Batshuayi and Kepa Arrizabalaga.
