
# Binapex Offers Users Full Security and High Speed of Transactions

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:12:29+00:00**

Author: **Adedamola Bada**

Original: [Coinspeaker](https://www.coinspeaker.com/binapex-security-speed/)

In a wide row of crypto exchanges, Binapex can be really noted for its safety and speeds of transactions. It is located in Seychelles and is built to provide its users with a reliable platform with which they can track and trade cryptocurrencies like Ethereum, Bitcoin and lots more.
Binapex.com stands out from the row of other platforms as it introduces convenience, simplicity, and tight security to the crypto-space through its fiat currency, token, and cryptocurrency exchange platform.
To Binapex.com, a subsidiary of Binapex Ltd, total devotion to legal regulations and the advanced security of clients are non-negotiable. With transparency as its watchword, Binapex.com has become the best global platform where users can conduct trusted cryptocurrency trading.
Binapex has certain features that make it a perfect choice for investors. They include:
New users who sign up on the Binapex platform are eligible for a welcoming bonus of $50, and to access it, the following promo code should be used (6bcc-b19e-c09b-3f1b).
This is yet another perk of Binapex. With available leverage of up to x10, margin trading can be done on the Binapex platform with BTC and ETH.
Completing a transaction has never been this easy and fast. On the Binapex platform, users can complete their accounts top-up, conduct a profitable transaction on either margin or regular markets, make profits, and withdraw their earnings all within a few minutes.
 On Binapex.com, users have at their disposal trading data and charts that are in real-time.
Also known as Binapex crypto index 100, it’s the platform’s personal index created to objectively evaluate the crypto market’s overall short-term and long-term dynamics.
Binapex is a security-conscious ecosystem. Though it strives to provide a comfortable trading environment for its users, it will not be at the expense of their safety.
Binapex provides free trading signals as well as cost-effective services. Users get to enjoy cheaper rate privileges when they attain certain trading volume.
Users can request a personal reduction of fees on one or more markets, and this only applies in the following cases:
The market fee is only applicable to executed orders and not canceled ones. Concerning token markets, the fee is charged using the base currency, which the token is traded against.
