
# ZTE launches the Blade 10, Blade 10 Prime, and Blade A7 Prime in the U.S.

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:37:34+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/zte-launches-blade-10-blade-10-prime-and-blade-a7-prime-us?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: ZTE
      
ZTE today launched three new budget Android smartphones: Blade 10, Blade 10 Prime, and Blade A7 Prime. The ZTE Blade 10 and Blade 10 Prime are both identical in terms of tech specs and only differ when it comes to support for network bands. While the Blade 10 Prime is available from Visible for $179, the Blade 10 is available unlocked from the ZTE website for the same price. ZTE Blade A7 Prime, on the other hand, is available from Visible for just $99.
ZTE Blade 10 and Blade 10 Prime feature a 6.3-inch FHD+ display panel with a waterdrop notch at the top. The two phones have MediaTek's Helio P60 processor under the hood, coupled with 3GB RAM and 64GB storage. On the back of the two phones is a dual camera setup featuring a 16MP primary sensor and a 5MP secondary sensor. Rest of the key highlights include a 16MP selfie camera, rear-mounted fingerprint sensor, 3.5mm headphone jack, 3,200mAh battery, and a USB Type-C port.

        Source: ZTE
      
The entry-level Blade A7 Prime comes with a 6.09-inch waterdrop screen with HD+ resolution. It runs on a quad-core MediaTek Helio A22 chipset, which has been paired with 3GB of RAM and 32GB storage. The smartphone has a single 16MP camera on the back and a 5MP selfie camera up front. Similar to the other two phones, the Blade A7 Prime ships with Android 9 Pie.
ZTE Blade 10 Prime is an affordable budget Android smartphone that has a 6.3-inch display with a waterdrop notch and a 16MP selfie camera. You also get 64GB of expandable onboard storage, DTS audio, and 16MP + 5MP dual rear cameras.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Affordable wireless T-Mobile Connect includes unlimited talk, text, and 5G access for $15/month During the first Un-Carrier event for the New T-Mobile, the company announced a $15/month “T-Mobile Connect” plan that includes unlimited talk, text, 5G access, and a high-speed data allotment that gets bigger each year.
      

        5G for all T-Mobile’s 5G network is launching on December 6 for 200 million people The “new T-Mobile” is launching its 5G network on December 6, and when it does, 200 million people will have access to the network from Day One.
      

        Better battery life Samsung Galaxy S11e leak hints at significantly improved battery life A new leak suggests the Galaxy S11e will be equipped with a much bigger battery than the Galaxy S10e.
      

        Buyer's guide These are the best rugged Android phones Living the rough and tumble life? Get yourself a smartphone that can handle everything you throw at it — or throw your phone at.
      
