
# New Book Reveals Secrets Of Italy’s Pasta Grannies

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Irene S. Levine**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/irenelevine/2019/11/05/new-book-reveals-secrets-of-italys-pasta-grannies/)

Many of the techniques and recipes of Italian home cooking have been passed down through generations. One example: If you ask an Italian how she—or he— learned to prepare pasta, they’ll likely credit their mother (mamma) or grandmother (nonna).Vicky Bennison—a British storyteller, author and culinary traveler with a residence in Le Marche, Italy—was inspired to help preserve Italian food and cultural traditions by creating a YouTube channel, Pasta Grannies, which now has more than 400,000 subscribers.
“I noticed it was only older women who made pasta by hand on a daily basis. Those over 80 years old are the last generation who had to do this to put food on the table – for everyone younger, it is a choice,” says Bennison. “I wanted to record their skills and also, to celebrate older women who, too often, are invisible in food media,” she adds.
So, over the course of five years, Bennison traveled across most of the 20 regions of Italy to interview and film these grannies (or nonnas) in their kitchens. All of them were over the age of 65 and some were well into their 90s.
The videos are captivating because they capture more than the art of making pasta: They offer intimate vignettes of the women, their families and friends, and portray a unique slice of Italian life and culture. The Pasta Grannies Instagram page has garnered more than 200K followers.
Bennison’s recently released cookbook, Pasta Grannies: The Secrets of Italy’s Best Home Cooks (Hardie Grant, 2019) is an offshoot of her YouTube brand. It celebrates 75 women who still make authentic regional pastas from scratch—from pici (a thick spaghetti that originated in Tuscany) to tortelli d’erbetta (a pasta filled with ricotta, Parmigiano Reggiano and Swiss chard that is a specialty of Parma, in the Emilia Romagna region). The recipes also pair the pastas with the sugos, ragus, pestos and dressings that befit them.
Forbes.com spoke to Vicky Bennison about the Pasta Grannies she’s immortalized on video and now, in print:
Vicky Bennison: I turned to making videos because of the physicality of making pasta. Pictures and words aren’t enough.
VB: Rules are broken quite regularly, but our interviewees are generally females, over the age of 65, who are housewives. (When we find a Pasta Grandpa we film him but it’s rare to find a man that age who makes pasta.) Our oldest granny is Letizia, who is 100 years old and lives in a town near Trapani in Sicily.
VB: I have a “Granny Finder,” Livia de Giovanni, an Italian, who helps me find women willing to be filmed. An introduction through a friend or acquaintance makes it more likely that a woman will say, yes. I’ve found that an Italian is needed to “close the deal!” A lot of women say, no; some say, yes, and then change their minds. Quite a few start off feeling anxious and then enjoy the attention. We also find them through town halls, food festival organizers and that kind of thing.
VB: Quite often, especially outside cities, there are two kitchens. The larger one is for entertaining (like a summer kitchen in the garden) or it’s a scullery where heavy duty tasks happen, like butchering a pig or bottling vegetables. Then there’s a small, more formal kitchen in the main part of the house. The units are often from the 1970s; the women largely aren’t interested in fashion or decor.
VB: Quite often our Pasta Grannies are widows. When they are still married, the husbands are very proud of the attention their wives are getting. Sometimes they are amazed we are interested in something so workaday and routine as pasta making. Occasionally, a husband wants to join in (having never shown an interest before).
VB: I think with the Slow Food movement, there’s been a renewed emphasis on not letting traditional recipes disappear. But the level of expertise of hand making pasta will no longer be the same. Pasta making is becoming professionalized: Folks use laminators and extruders, etc.
VB: Each video takes about a day to make with about two hours of filming. Then there’s the editing. The editor produces a rough cut. Then I write the voiceover and create the subtitles. This is sent to the editor, who develops the final cut. Livia, my Granny Finder, checks my Italian. Any minor miscues are sorted out. Then, the video is uploaded to YouTube for publication every week, on Friday afternoon.
Funding for the effort comes from a variety of sources: YouTube advertising, the book advance, and my own pension. It would be nice to find a sponsor - the audience is predominantly young (25-45) even if the stars are old!
VB: I have become considerably more discerning about pasta. When it comes to dried pasta, I only buy very high-quality brands. For example, one in Le Marche is called Pasta Mancini, is made by a producer who grows their own durum wheat for the flour.
VB: Stay physically active, stay social. I think most of our Pasta Grannies never sit down.
VB: Food is a great way to find out about a culture and to meet people, so I’d say it is central to everything I do. I always go to the local markets, visit wineries and so on. I’m lucky because my work with the Pasta Grannies allows me to explore all the non-touristy areas of Italy.

        Note: This conversation has been lightly edited and condensed for clarity.
      
