
# Family oasis promises Saudi Arabia’s Diriyah festival fun

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:49:30+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Arab News](https://www.arabnews.com/node/1578696/saudi-arabia)

RIYADH: After making the journey to Riyadh from the UK, Winter Wonderland has turned the Saudi capital into a wintery fair, a perfect place for families and friends to gather. The largest skating rink in the Middle East is surrounded by professional skaters from around the world, watching skaters and demonstrating the right techniques to novices.Children get to drop their iPads for a few hours and live in the moment, while adults take off their responsibility capes and enjoy the flippancy of childhood.Fairground attractions invite people to collect ducks or knock over glass bottles in the hunt for prizes as children’s laughter echoes through the 250,000 square meter space.A merry-go-round spins with children and adults atop its horses and carriages, while a giant ferris wheel takes visitors high in the sky to view their surroundings buzzing with life, light and color.Those with stronger hearts try the adrenaline-pumping roller-coaster or sky screamer — a series of swings that climb toward the sky. Winter Wonderland visitor Amani Al-Zahrani, 26, who brought her younger siblings to unwind after a school day, told Arab News: “I haven’t seen them this happy in a long time. Everything about this place is magical, the rides, the food, the people.”Al-Zahrani said that she felt “a little envious” because as a child she didn’t have access to such entertainment.
At the fair, children get to drop their iPads and live in the moment, while adults take off their responsibility capes and enjoy the flippancy of childhood.
Fairground attractions invite people to collect ducks or knock over glass bottles in the hunt for prizes as children’s laughter echoes through the 250,000 square meter space.
A merry-go-round spins with children and adults atop its horses and carriages, while a giant ferris wheel takes visitors high in the sky to view their surroundings buzzing with life, light and color.
Her seven-year-old sister Shayma’a pointed at the more “dangerous rides” and said that she wanted to try them. “I hope these rides stay here until I’m taller,” she said.Ahmad, 13, liked the Snow Park area. “My sister and I posed with the giant polar bear,” he said.Bayan bin Mazroah, who visited with her best friend, compared Winter Wonderland to amusement parks abroad.“I’m so happy. Everything is so beautiful, the rides are amazing — I tried the roller-coaster and the spinning swings, and it was frightening, but it still felt great,” she said.Her friend Abeer Mohammed agreed: “It’s brilliant, and the rides give you the perfect adrenaline rush.”Winter Wonderland will open from 4 p.m. to midnight until Jan. 15.The event is part of Riyadh Season, one of 12 Saudi Seasons that aim to promote the Kingdom as a tourism hub.
