
# Girl mowed down by speeding car while out trick or treating

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:10:15+00:00**

Author: **Lynn Love**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/girl-mowed-down-speeding-car-20786518)

A young girl was knocked down by a car that was being shot at whilst she was out " trick or treating ".
The 12-year-old was left injured and “lying in the road” after the car ploughed into her on a Liverpool street shortly before 8pm on Halloween night.
The youngster was rushed to hospital with serious injuries, reports the Liverpool Echo .
Locals have reported seeing a number of shots being fired at a black VW Golf before it attempted to speed out of the street.
After the car hit the girl on Sceptre Road, a witness said that the occupants of the car, believed to be three or four males, then ran from the car.
 
One man in the area said that a passenger of the car was bleeding from his face and people in the area believe one of the shots hit him through the window.
He said: “It sound like maybe two or three shots had been fired and then tyres screeching.
“When I came outside people were screaming and running towards the road but I didn’t know what had happened to held back a bit.
“It looked like three or four lads got out of the car and ran the opposite way.
“My neighbour told me that one of them was covered in blood.
“The poor girl was just lying in the road but thankfully the ambulance got here very quickly. I hope she’ll be OK.”
 
Neighbours in the area have slammed those responsible for tonight’s incident.
Another resident said: “I heard she was trick or treating with her friends.
“It’s absolutely disgusting they would do this. Especially on a night when so many kids would be out and about.
“Nobody seems to know what’s gone on with the shooting but a little girl is now laid up in hospital, they should be ashamed of themselves.
“Absolute cowards.”
A cordon is currently in place on Sceptre Road with the black VW Golf visible in the middle.
Forensic officers have also launched their investigation at the scene.
 
A spokesperson for Merseyside Police said: “An investigation is underway following reports a male and a female were injured in Croxteth this evening, Thursday 31st October.
“We were called at 7.50pm following reports that shots had been fired at a black VW Golf as it travelled along Sceptre Road. A short time later the car was in collision with a 12 year-old female pedestrian.
“Shortly after the incident a male presented at hospital with a facial injury. The injury is not believed to be life threatening.
“The female pedestrian has also been taken to hospital for treatment for her injuries.
“Her injuries are described as serious but not life threatening.”
Chief Inspector Mark Everard said: “This investigation is in its very early stages and enquiries are being carried out to establish exactly what has taken place.
“I would appeal to anyone who was in the vicinity of Sceptre Road this evening who saw anyone or anything suspicious or captured anything on dash-cam footage to contact us as they may be able to assist with the investigation.
“Firearms have no place on the streets of Merseyside and we are committed to finding the people responsible for using them and bringing them to justice.”
In a wide-ranging statement on Thursday evening addressing anti-social behaviour on Halloween, Superintendent Paddy Kelly called the incident "serious".
He said: "[It] was reported at around 7:50pm that a man had been shot whilst driving on Sceptre Road, Croxteth. A short time later, the car collided with a 12 year old girl who was out trick or treating.
“This is an extremely worrying incident, where the offender/s have shown no thought for the general public and has resulted in an innocent young girl, who was out enjoying herself, experiencing this traumatic ordeal."
