
# Callous killer who beat own gran to death died in cell from burst blood vessel in brain

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:52:42+00:00**

Author: **Tim Bugler**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/crime/callous-killer-who-beat-gran-20826410)

A brutal murderer who savagely beat his own gran to death was found naked and dead in his prison cell after suffering a burst blood vessel in his brain.
Callous killer Garry Kane, 47, who was jailed in 2013 for bludgeoning his 87-year-old grandmother to death, died in maximum security prison HMP Shotts , Lanarkshire in 2018, five years into a life sentence.
A fatal accident inquiry heard the former paratrooper was discovered by a female warder at approximately 7.35am in his cell.
Sheriff Allan McKay, who presided over the probe at Hamilton Sheriff Court, said: "He was naked, lying on the cell floor, and had a fresh laceration to his forehead. He was unresponsive."
The court heard Prison Officer Natalie Walker rendered first aid. She could not find a pulse and radioed for assistance.
Two prison nurses battled for 20 minutes but were were unable to find a pulse despite numerous cycles of CPR and Kane was pronounced dead by paramedics.
A pathologist found Kane had been killed by the spontaneous rupture of a cerebral artery.
The wound on the left side of his forehead was said to be consistent with his head hitting on a hard surface, such as his stone bedframe, as a result of his "terminal collapse".
His death occurred sometime between prison lockdown at 9pm on the 10th September 2018 and 7.34am on the 11th.
Sheriff McKay ruled in a written determination: "This was a non-survivable event.
"Early intervention would not have improved his chances of survival."
Kane was jailed after murdering his grandmother Kathleen Milward in her home in Stonehouse, Lanarkshire in 2012.
She had taken him in after he was thrown out by his mother for stealing to buy drugs.
 
The High Court in Glasgow heard he argued with the old lady, then hit her over the head with a blunt object at least three times.
His blows left her skull exposed and he broke a bone in her neck as he throttled her.
Mrs Milward suffered a total of 26 injuries during the brutal attack. His DNA was found under her nails, showing that she struggled with him for her life.
Kane went out to buy heroin after the killing.
Judge Lord Matthews, who ordered him to serve a minimum of 17 years , told him: "You were found guilty of the murder of your own grandmother. No words of mine can bring home the enormity of that.
"What made it more heinous was that she was murdered in her own home, where she was entitled to feel safe, in brutal circumstances."
Lord Matthews said he could only rationalise that the crime was committed because of Kane's "craving" for heroin.
