
# An Affordable Care Act Lawsuit Could Be Disastrous For Women

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:39:07+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/affordable-care-act-lawsuit-could-be-disastrous-for-women-19295571)

For millions of people with chronic health conditions, former President Barack Obama's landmark health care legislation allowed them to access health insurance and protected them from insurance companies who would charge them incredibly high premiums. But, in July, the 5th Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals heard arguments on a case that could repeal all of the Affordable Care Act — and a judgment on the case is expected to come down soon.
The case, Texas v. United States, was originally brought by a handful of states who argued that the ACA's individual mandate, which forces people who don't have insurance to pay a tax penalty, is unconstitutional. The 5th circuit court is expected to rule on the case any day now, and if it agrees with Texas and other states, it could choose to strike down the individual mandate, all of the ACA — or it could make a different decision entirely. No matter what the court decides, the outcome of the case could affect millions, with potentially negative impacts on women and girls in particular.
There are a few different ways the court could decide the case. The central questions in the case are first, whether the plaintiffs or defendants have standing, meaning whether they've suffered in some way that's connected to the law being challenged. The second question is whether the individual mandate is constitutional, and the third is whether the individual mandate can be separated from the rest of the ACA. The answers to those questions could lead to one of three outcomes: the ACA continues as it is, the individual mandate of the ACA is struck down, or all of the ACA is struck down, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.
Sarah Coombs, senior health policy analyst at the National Partnership for Women & Families, tells Bustle that whatever the 5th circuit court's decision is, there will probably be an appeal, which could land the case in front of the Supreme Court. During the appeal process, the ACA is likely to stay in place. If the court does strike down the ACA, Coombs says it won't just affect people with marketplace health insurance — it will affect everyone, including people who have employer-sponsored insurance, for example.
