
# Amazon’s Toy Catalog Just Dropped—And It Shows Just How Much The Company Knows About Us

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kiri Masters**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kirimasters/2019/11/05/amazons-toy-catalog-just-dropped-and-shows-just-how-much-they-know-about-us/)

Amazon’s second annual toy catalog has been dropping this week across the U.S. The differences and similarities in this year’s edition tell us something about Amazon’s goals in this category, but also shows just how much data Amazon has at its fingertips to help drive shopper demand. What’s new in the 2019 catalog
The catalog is the second edition that Amazon produced, and while there are some similarities with the 2018 edition, this year Amazon has rolled out a few new tricks to ensure they capture their slice of the holiday shopping pie. 
The products have no prices, just “Scan & Shop” QR codes linking back to the online page. This is the same as last year’s edition. Since Amazon reprices items on its site millions of times per day, it’s impossible to advertise a set price for each item. This nifty workaround not only ensures customers don’t see a price that Amazon can’t hold, but it draws shoppers back to the site immediately. To find products from the catalog, I just opened my Amazon app, hit the button to do a visual search (as opposed to typing) and was able to scan the ‘SmileCode’ from right within the Amazon app—no separate app necessary.    
There’s also a tie-in to Prime Video. Just in case parents of young children haven’t heard “Baby Shark” enough times, the catalog reminds you that you can find the TV shows that correspond to the licensed products sold on Amazon. Amazon Prime now has some popular kids TV shows of their own, like The Stinky & Dirty Show, and If You Give A Mouse A Cookie, and the toy catalog promotes some licensed toys as Amazon-exclusive items, alongside big names like Peppa Pig, which can also be viewed on Prime Video. Tying in Prime Video with the toy catalog is another way for Amazon to promote all the benefits of Prime and ensure member stickiness.
There’s a sticker sheet to tag your wishlist items. This is a fun addition that will bring a smile to kids faces and help both parents and children to engage with the content. There’s also a mad-libs page and space for kids to write their own wishlist. 

        Amazon appears less aggressive on toy pricing in 2019
      
But here’s one thing that Amazon is not bringing to the table this year: lower prices in the toy category. Analytics company Profitero found in its most recent Pricing Wars report that while Amazon beat other retailers by on price by 20% across most categories, it only has a 1.7% price lead on its next closest competitor, Walmart, in the Toys & Games category.   
I did some quick & dirty analysis of three items from the catalog, looking up the products on both Walmart and Amazon. I found that all three items were sold first-party on Amazon (i.e. through a wholesale relationship with the brand), allowing Amazon to have more control over both pricing and availability than third-party merchants. I also found that both retailers had the same price on two items and Amazon had a significant discount on the third, where the item was sold on Walmart by a third-party reseller rather than first-party. 

        Amazon could be customizing the catalog based on the recipient
      
The recipient of the catalog shown in these pictures has a two year old child, and we noted that most items in the catalog at the start and mid-point of the catalog were geared toward a toddler-level audience. Another catalog recipient, this time with older children, found the order of the assortment offered to be different, with older kid toys at the start and younger kid toys at the end.
Tim Curtis, president of direct mail consultancy CohereOne, says that if Amazon is not already using audience targeting in this way, they probably will in the near future: “Their roadmap will probably include custom content for each recipient. They know from the size of Halloween costumes we ordered, what are the ages of the children in our household.” Curtis says that Amazon could also include products in the catalog based on which TV shows the family has been watching in their Prime Video account. 
Curtis believes that the fact that Amazon has published a toy catalog two years in a row now means they got exactly the response they were looking for, especially since the format and look and feel of the piece is largely similar. “Amazon will surely see positive responses from this. We know from neuroscience that this medium [direct mail] is extremely effective at building an emotional connection with customers and driving demand. Even the stickers in the catalog—it’s nostalgia. They are doing it right.” 
