
# Beermen try to get back on track

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:42:05+00:00**

Author: **Arman Carandang**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/sports/basketball/beermen-try-get-back-track)

No less than coach Leo Austria made the statement after the Beermen absorbed a 119-127 loss to NorthPort last October 23, and a 99-125 spanking from title contender Meralco four days later.
“What is lacking in our team, we’re so complacent because of our good start and they thought it’s easy to win,” said Austria, referring to the 4-1 start the Beermen posted in the season-ending conference before things turned bad.
Austria noted that in their last two outings, the Beermen seemed to be just playing and not competing at all.
“I told them we should not dwell on the last two championships because a lot of teams right now are playing well and they have very good imports,” added Austria.
The Beermen are running fifth at 5-3, although they still have good chances of finishing within top 4 – and be rewarded with a twice-to-beat advantage in the next round.
However, they need no less than a sweep of their last three elimination assignments that include Blackwater today, Rain or Shine on Saturday and Talk ‘N Text on Nov. 20.
The Beermen try to rebound from back-to-back losses as the play the Elite whose own agenda of cornering their last two outings make them pretty dangerous in the 4:30 p.m. tussle at the Cuneta Astrodome.
Very seldom in that a team gets handsome chances of completing a grand slam, but San Miguel is close to that, having won the first two gems of the 2019 season.
However, their goal might hit a snag, especially with the local players not doing well and are too dependent on their import in Dez Wells.
“Our main concern are the local players,” said Austria. “They should provide help to Dez because for the fact that he scores 56 points, he can do a lot for our team.”
“But he cannot do it alone; I think we have a problem with the locals because we are relying more on him,” added Austria.
As for the Elite, they are practically out of the running with their 2-7 slate, that even sweeping their last two outings may not be enough in their cause.
“Basta we will give our best effort in our last game and then see where it takes us,” said Blackwater coach Aris Dimaunahan.
Phoenix, another team in the cellar at 2-6 and in danger of getting booted, takes on Magnolia in the main offering at 7 p.m.
