
# Liverpool player ratings from Genk win as Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain nets winner

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:53:31+00:00**

Author: **David Maddock, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-maddock/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-player-ratings-genk-win-20819476)

Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain was the star of the show again as Liverpool secured a hard-fought victory over Genk in the Champions League on Tuesday night.
The Reds took a 15th-minute lead through Georginio Wijnaldum, the Holland midfielder's first at Anfield since he scored twice against Barcelona in the 4-0 semi-final second-leg comeback in May.
But Anfield was stunned into silence when Genk equalised when Ally Mbwana Samatta got between Oxlade-Chamberlain and James Milner to head in a near-post corner five minutes before the break.
However the Reds regained their lead when Divock Origi's cross was held up and then laid off by Mo Salah for Oxlade-Chamberlain to fire home his third goal against this opposition.

        Here are how Liverpool's players rated...
      
 

        Alisson Becker 6
      
Could do nothing about first half goal, and very little else to do.

        Trent Alexander-Arnold 7
      
Brilliant intervention in first half, solid game without real exertion.

        Joe Gomez 6
      
Not the most testing of evenings, and appreciated the run out .

        Virgil van Dijk 7
      
Had dipped slightly of late, but looked composed again here.

        James Milner 7
      
Was adventurous going forward, and experience was important.

        Georginio Wijnaldum 7
      
Brilliant instinctive finish to open the scoring, adding goals now.
 

        Fabinho 6
      
Quiet in the middle but appreciated the run through for Sunday.

        Naby Keita 7
      
Looked lively around the box, almost scored and getting better.

        Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain 7
      
MOTM. Beginning to find old form and nose for goal highly impressive.
 

        Mo Salah 7
      
Has been troubled by ankle problem, but enjoyed central role .

        Divock Origi 7
      
Looked a handful for former club, and put in a shift of work. 

        Substitutes
      
Robertson for Keita, 74 mins; Mane for Oxlade-Chamberlain, 75 mins; Firmino for Origi, 89 mins
Coucke 7; Cuesta 5, Dewaest 5, Lucumi 6, De Norre 6; Maehle 6, Heynen 7, Berge 6, Hrosovsky 6; Samatta 6, Ito 7 (Ndongala 68,6)

        Referee
      
Ivan Kruzliak (SVK) 6
Attendance: 52,562
