
# 'Two million voices saying listen to us': Oprah calls on Texas governor to stop execution

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:37:08+00:00**

Author: **Madison Dibble**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/two-million-voices-saying-listen-to-us-oprah-calls-on-texas-governor-to-stop-the-execution)

Oprah Winfrey urged Texas Gov. Greg Abbott to stop a death row inmate from being executed, adding her voice to a petition demanding Abbott act.
Rodney Reed has been on death row since 1998 for the murder of Stacey Stites, and his execution is scheduled for Nov. 20. Reed and his attorneys from The Innocence Project argue that he has been denied a full and fair trial because there is untested DNA evidence and claims that Stites’ ex-husband may have committed the crime.
Reed claimed he and Stites were having an affair, which is why his DNA was present on her body when she died.
More than 1.5 million people, including several celebrities, have signed a petition calling on Abbott to delay Reed’s execution and give him a new trial.
In an interview on CBS This Morning, Winfrey asked Abbott to use his power to stop the execution.
“At least the governor has to pause and look at the 2 million people who have signed a petition,” she said. “Two million voices saying listen to us, something is off here. Something needs to be done.”
“Governor, if you’re watching, hello. I think this is a sign you’re supposed to at least not execute, but look at it,” she said.
Abbott also received a letter from 26 legislators in Texas, but he has not made any decision to delay Reed's execution.
