
# Rich Hall’s Red Menace review – down with the nuclear nitwits!

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:30:08+00:00**

Author: **Stuart Jeffries**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2019/nov/05/rich-halls-red-menace-review-down-with-the-nuclear-nitwits)


        From megaton bombs stuck in trees to the scientist who put his head in a particle accelerator, this deadpan history of the Cold War is a flabbergasting look at US and Russian ineptitude
      
The first thermonuclear bomb got stuck up a tree. The second crashed into a field. Both had tumbled from a B-52G Stratofortress after a mid-air refuelling snafu that led to a wing falling off and three of the eight-strong crew dying in the resulting crash. If either of the 3.8 megaton bombs had detonated that day in January 1961, Big Daddy Road in North Carolina would have suffered the equivalent of 250 Hiroshimas.
“Given the nature of basic human ineptitude, one question stands out,” said the US comedian sagely, in Rich Hall’s Red Menace (BBC Four), his deadpan history of the cold war. “How did we not blow each other up?”
Good question. In hindsight, it is amazing that there are humans around to have hindsight. The bomb in the tree had its arming switch set to “on”. Why didn’t it go off? The faithful of Big Daddy Road had an answer: God used His manual override. Attendance at the local baptist church tripled the year after the incident.
Cold war Americans were less likely to kill Soviets with nuclear weapons than themselves, Hall argued. At Los Alamos in 1945, one scientist was rearranging tungsten carbide bricks around a plutonium core for a test called “tickling the dragon’s tail”. But he inadvertently dropped one of the bricks on the core, producing a blue flash of light, a mule kick of heat, and 25 days later his death from radiation sickness. The core was moved to a new site to keep it safer, but within a year another physicist was beating out time with a screwdriver between two beryllium spheres that surrounded the core so he could hear metronomic changes on a Geiger counter. “When he reached the approximate tempo of The Girl from Ipanema,” Hall reported, “the screwdriver slipped, the spheres came together – blue light, mule kick and nine days later he was dead.” That’s the next episode of Horrible Histories’ Stupid Deaths sorted.
Russian scientists were not to be outdone in this race to climb Mount Stupid. One Soviet physicist put his head in a particle accelerator, which had an interesting consequence. Half his face didn’t age thereafter. Perhaps, suggested Hall, we should all do the same to attain eternal youth. No, really, after you, Mr Hall.
Worse, the Soviets built plutonium facility No 817 in the Urals after the second world war and pumped its waste into a river. In 1957, waste tanks exploded, sending up radioactive clouds that spread over an area inhabited by 270,000 Russians, only 11,000 of whom were evacuated. Hundreds died. Hall noted the site of the Kyshtym disaster has been rebranded as the East Ural Nature Reserve. To be fair, that sounds nicer than Still A Carcinogenic Radioactive Wasteland.
While Russian and American brainiacs were busy self-harming or narrowly avoiding slaying millions of their own citizens, other patriots fought proxy conflicts in basketball, chess and ice hockey. Even literature became a front in the cold war. The CIA funded a Russian edition of Pasternak’s banned Doctor Zhivago and leaned on the Nobel committee to give the author the literature prize. It was, Hall supposed, a brilliant secret weapon devised to bore as many Russians to death as possible. Only the fact that nobody finished the book explained why its body count was disappointing.
Hall’s thesis was that the red menace was all sizzle and no steak. Rather, unprecedented US affluence produced anxiety – all those tail-finned Cadillacs and over-sized barbecues might disappear just as quickly as they had appeared. Such anxiety only needed a nudge from Senator Eugene McCarthy and allegorical sci-fi films such as Invasion of the Body Snatchers, to escalate into full-blooded terror of the Other.
As for the Russians, Hall supposed, “The idea of invading America didn’t enter their minds. They were too exhausted.” Purges, show trials, bread queues, five-year plans, gulags, religious persecution and pumping athletes with performance-enhancing drugs – all militated against reds being under American beds. They were most likely asleep in their own.
Who won the cold war, Hall asked himself. Nobody, he replied. Instead, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the former foes copied the worst of each other. America’s president is more Stalin than Kennedy in his lies, intimidation and smear tactics. Putin’s Russia has become ruthlessly capitalist. “It’s a gas station with rusty nukes out back,” said Hall. Which made me feel smug until I realised Britain is becoming like Russia – minus the gas station.
