
# Rashami Desai’s shock eviction from Bigg Boss triggers angry reactions against Salman Khan, ‘BB Cheated Viewers’ trends

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:09:51+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/rashami-desais-shock-eviction-from-bigg-boss-triggers-angry-reactions-against-salman-khan-bb-cheated-viewers-trends/271229/)

Colors TV’s popular reality show Bigg Boss saw one of the biggest upsets of this season after TV actress Rashami Desai was booted out of the show along with Devoleena Bhattacharjee and Shefali Bagga. Incidentally, all three evicted contestants belonged to the same team in the Bigg Boss show.
Rashami’s eviction came as a shock since the announcement came moments after host Salman Khan informed the housemates that contestants leaving the show after first finale were Aarti Singh, Shefali Bagga and Asim Riaz. Salman’s announcement about the eviction of Asim, Aarti and Shefali had created a sombre atmosphere in the house with Shehnaaz Gill breaking down in public. Siddharth Shukla was seen teary-eyed as he passionately hugged his friend Aarti Singh for a considerably long time.
The anti-climax came when Salman said that he wasn’t serious about his first announcement about the eviction and contestants leaving the show will be Rashami, Shefali and Devoleena. While announcing Rashami’s eviction, Salman emphasised that she was in the list of top six contestants but since in the Friday’s task, she had helped Paras Chhabra win, this cost her a place in the show. After being announced the winner of the task, Paras was declared the winner of the first phase of the reality show. He was also given power to take one more contestant to the next round. As expected, he had decided to take his ‘friend’ Mahira Sharma to the next round of the show.
Rashami had come under criticism for her biases towards Paras in the Friday night’s task. Salman hinted that her decision to support Paras had cost her own place in the game. The popular TV actress was visibly shocked knowing that she was among the three contestants leaving the show with Devoleena.
Her eviction triggered angry reactions from Twitterati, who vented their ire against the makers of the reality show including host Salman Khan. Soon, BB Cheated Viewers began to trend nationally. Here are some of the notable comments posted under this trending subject:
