
# How to Make a Black Hole in a Science Lab

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ryan F. Mandelbaum**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/how-to-make-a-black-hole-in-a-science-lab/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+uk%2Fgizmodo+%28Gizmodo+UK%29&hl=en)

Nearly 50 years ago – before Interstellar, A Brief History of Time, and certainly the Event Horizon Telescope – postdoctoral researcher William Unruh was attempting to explain black holes to a crowd at an Oxford University colloquium. There were no reference points with which to compare an object so dense that light cannot escape its warped gravity. So he devised his own little analogy: Imagine a waterfall, and a little fish accidentally swimming over its edge, too slow to swim against the water’s flow. The fish would forever be stuck at the bottom of the waterfall, never to return to its home. That’s basically what was happening to the light.
A few years later, Unruh was teaching a physics class on the behaviour of fluids, and realised the mathematics of this analogy painted a picture even more similar to a black hole than he’d previously considered. Perhaps analogues, smaller experiments that obey a similar set of physical rules to the black holes, would mimic other fantastical physical effects found in black holes as well.
For decades, Unruh flushed out the ideas in theory only, and by the time he was a professor himself, he and his postdocs realised they could make the idea a reality. They could build a black hole-like object in their lab.
Scientists since the 1980s have designed, and more recently constructed, a slew of black hole analogs that attempt to recreate the weirdness of spacetime predicted by scientists like Albert Einstein and Stephen Hawking. Just this year, a team led by physicist Jeff Steinhauer at the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology discovered the strongest evidence yet of the radiation that Hawking predicted would emanate from black holes’ outer rims using one such analogue, for example. But the comparison between the analogue and the real universe can only go so far.
“The universe isn’t a waterfall flowing over a lip, and a black hole is different in other aspects, but in some aspects they’re very similar,” said Unruh, now a professor at the University of British Columbia. But how far? Is the similarity strong enough that studying the analogues can bolster theories about black hole behaviour? “I would say yes,” Unruh told Gizmodo.
Einstein’s theory of general relativity predicts the existence of black holes, objects whose gravity warps space and time so much that beyond a boundary called the event horizon, light can’t escape. But these boundaries are a strain on physicists’ theories, since they obey both the laws of the tiniest particles, quantum mechanics, and the laws of general relativity and its description of gravity – and as of today, there is no proven seamless way to tie these two theories together. Theorists have devised a few physical phenomena that might occur in these extreme regions, including Hawking radiation, the idea that tiny fluctuations of energy caused by quantum mechanics on the black hole’s surface can cause black holes to emit particles, and the Penrose process, by which spinning black holes might inject energy into nearby particles.
But black hole-observing experiments like the LIGO and Virgo gravitational wave detectors and the Event Horizon Telescope certainly can’t resolve event horizons all the way down to the teeny quantum scale. The Large Hadron Collider, the world’s largest atom smasher, has yet to produce a miniature black hole – yes, physicists are looking for them, but no, mini black holes would not cause any harm and would disintegrate almost immediately. To create them, the Large Hadron Collider would probably need beams containing far more energy than its present capabilities. Analogues using ultra-cold atoms, lasers, or even flowing water could at least verify that certain theorised processes exist in nature in objects that act like black holes.
In the decades after Hawking debuted his theory of black hole radiation, Unruh used mathematics to expand the analogies and develop the concept of “dumb holes,” so called because they would trap sound rather than light. Other physicists built on the theory and devised dumb holes of their own. By the 2000s, Unruh and his team, joined by University of British Columbia civil engineers, were ready to construct dumb holes in the lab.
These first black hole analogues looked a lot more like waterfalls than interstellar points-of-no-return. As a postdoctoral researcher under Unruh at the University of British Columbia, Silke Weinfurtner oversaw pumps moving water down a flume and across a barrier representing the black hole. The scientists initially hoped to send vibrations, also known as sound, through the water, but the speed of sound in water is 1,500 meters per second – a difficult speed to study in a small lab experiment, Weinfurtner told Gizmodo. Instead, they sent physical waves, like waves you’d see in the ocean, across the barrier.
The team published their first results in 2010. When the waves they produced interacted with the barrier, they created pairs of waves on either side of the barrier, similar to the pairs of particles that Hawking predicted would appear on either side of the event horizon, inside and outside of the black hole. Hawking and Unruh’s other theoretical work together implies that black holes emit a “thermal” or “blackbody” spectrum of wavelengths based solely on their temperatures, which for black holes is directly related to their mass. The waves from Weinfurtner’s flume generated a strikingly similar spectrum, and the team claimed to have measured “stimulated” Hawking emission in their analogue system.
