
# Ryan Lowe on his special FA Cup memories and Plymouth Argyle's first round tie at Keith Hill's Bolton Wanderers

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:51:12+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/ryan-lowe-special-fa-cup-3511977)

Ryan Lowe has some special FA Cup memories from his career as a player, now he wants to create more of them as Plymouth Argyle manager.
He will get the chance to do so when the Pilgrims take on Bolton Wanderers in the FA Cup first round on Saturday.
Bolton are four-times winners of the FA Cup, including in 1923 when they beat West Ham United 2-0 in the first-ever final held at Wembley.
They have fallen on hard times over recent years and almost went out of business this summer.
Now, though, after they were rescued out of administration at the end of August, they are aiming to climb the EFL ladder again.
They are doing so under the management of former Argyle defender Keith Hill and his No 2 David Flitcroft, who used to be his boss at Bury.
Bolton began the season with a 12-point deduction but after a difficult start they seem to have turned a corner after winning their last three games in League One.
So a victory for Argyle in the FA Cup tie at the University of Bolton Stadium would be an excellent achievement for them.
Lowe said: “As a player I just wanted to be on Match of the Day – I loved the FA Cup.
“It’s special. It’s the best cup competition in the world for me, in terms of all the football league clubs, and it’s a great opportunity.”
Lowe’s FA Cup highlights include playing for Shrewsbury Town against Everton in 2003.
Shrewsbury beat their Premier League visitors, who included Wayne Rooney in their side, 2-1 in a third round tie.
Nearly three years later, Lowe netted twice as Chester City, then a League Two club, beat former European champions Nottingham Forest 3-0 in the second round.
“Gary Megson nearly signed me a few years later and gave me a bit of a telling off for that because he actually got sacked (by Forest) after that,” said Lowe.
He added: “I have got some special FA Cup memories and we will certainly be looking to get a special memory come Saturday.”
Argyle would pick up £36,000 in prize money if they were to beat Bolton, with the prospect with even more lucrative rewards further into the competition.
“The league is our bread and butter, don’t get me wrong, but there would be nothing better for this football club than to have a good run in the FA Cup.”
Hill, who had a lot of success in two spells as manager of Rochdale, was appointed as Bolton boss soon after the takeover of the club by Football Ventures was completed.
Flitcroft has had recent spells as manager of Swindon Town and Mansfield Town, who he took to the League Two play-off semi-finals last season.
He has now been reunited with Hill, having previously worked for him as his assistant at Rochdale.

        Keep an eye out on our social media pages for more Argyle news - we are on Twitter  @HeraldPAFC  and on Facebook Plymouth Live - Argyle  
      

        You can follow Argyle reporter Chris Errington on Twitter @ChrisErrington1 and on Facebook HeraldChris
      

        Plymouth Live has launched a WhatsApp service dedicated to keeping you up to date with the latest Argyle news.  Click here to join  and follow the instructions on your phone.
      

        Your number will not be shared with anyone else in the group. If you want more information on signing up, or if this link does not work  click here.
      

         
      
Lowe said: “Keith and Flicker are going to go and do a fantastic job, I certainly believe that.
“They are on a good run of form at the moment. We are probably going there as slight underdogs, if you like, because we are in League Two and they are in League One.”
He continued: “We are not taking nothing for granted. We are going there bubbly and in good shape ourselves.
“It’s one loss in seven so we are in good form also and we are looking forward to it. I don’t want to go there and get beat, let me tell you that.
“I’m going there to win, but ultimately we have got a team standing in our way and Bolton are going to be in the same position as us.”
