
# Little Mix stun in raunchy outfits as Stormzy joins them on stage at 02 Arena

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:55:48+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/little-mix-stun-raunchy-outfits-20802296)

Little Mix fans were treated to a stellar performance from the fourpiece as they brought their LM5 tour to London's 02 Arena last night.
Jesy Nelson, Jade Thirlwall, Perrie Edwards and Leigh-Anne Pinnock pulled out all the stops for their Saturday night concert, stepping out in an array of fierce stage outfits.
Switching it up between their trademark leotards, croptops and thigh-high boots, the former X Factor winners treated concert-goers to highlights from their back catalogue - set off by some energetic dance moves.
The girls then surprised fans by inviting rapper Stormzy out on stage for a rousing rendition of hit single Power.
The Grime star had shared videos of himself in the audience at the arena before sending fans into meltdown by joining the Mixers on stage.
"You guys are superstars flipping heck brilliant show," Stormzy told the girls.
Leigh-Anne revealed the Stormzy collab had been a long time coming as she took to Instagram to say: "So happy this finally happened!! @stormzy you legit lifted the roof off the 02 in this moment."
The girls were clearly in good spirits as they flooded their Instagrams with more pictures from the show.
"No other gang I'd wanna be in," said Jesy.
Perrie then added: "Last night was OUTRAGEOUS! Third night at the o2 in London and the vibe was incredible!"
Viewers of Celebrity X Factor heard Simon Cowell heap praise on Little Mix on Saturday night as he told group V5 to strive to achieve the former X Factor winner's success.
But it was a different story when Jade from the band was asked to give her opinion on Simon during a recent stint on Drag Race UK.
Ru Paul asked Jade: "Now you're a judge, what is going to be the biggest difference in your style of judging versus Simon Cowell's?"
Jade joked back: "Well for starters Ru, Simon has much bigger t**s. It really is true."
Fellow judges Ru, Michelle Visage and Graham Norton burst out laughing at her savage comment.
