
# Birmingham City star makes two-word claim as Pep Clotet answers appeal question

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/birmingham-city-star-makes-two-17194261)

Kristian Pedersen thinks Birmingham City were on the receiving end of ‘stupid decisions’ from the referee – but admits his side made plenty of their own mistakes against Cardiff City.
Blues suffered their fourth consecutive defeat on the road despite taking an early lead through Pedersen, who also scored against Luton Town last weekend.
They should have been further ahead after a superb first half-hour which included Dan Crowley hitting the post and seeing the ball hit the goalkeeper and drop agonisingly over the bar and Jude Bellingham also striking the upright.
But the hosts were handed a lifeline when referee Andrew Madley awarded them a penalty which looked to be of the soft variety.
Joe Ralls did the business from 12 yards and the game was turned on its head with Cardiff then in the ascendancy, going on to secure a 4-2 victory.

        Read more here.
      
Danny Ward’s sending off took the wind from beneath the Bluebirds’ wings and invited Blues back into the game.
However, as they searched first for an equaliser and then - after Ralls’ second goal, for a route back into the match they became very individualistic.
Villalba started shooting from all angles, Crowley was guilty of trying to do too much and the patterns Pep Clotet prides himself on gave way to a slightly frantic, hope-over-expectation, series of pot-shots and blind alleys.
In that way this match was a little reminiscent of the Derby game in which Blues gave themselves a platform but were unable to see out the result as their desire to kick down the door at one end of the pitch meant they left another open at the other.
There’s a fine line between urgency and a loss of composure and the visitors strayed over it.

        Read more here.
      
Asked if Blues will appeal the sending off, Clotet said: "I will look at it, I am going to watch it again when I watch the game back this evening (Saturday) - and tomorrow I am going to watch all the situations and see every major decision and component of what happened in the game.
"I want to see what happened from a tactical side and see that incident with Harlee to see if anything can be done. It was difficult to see live because it was far away."

        Read more here.
      
@rhydth: Despite the weather, absolutely loved that game. Had everything and some fight from the Bluebirds at last. On we go.
@neddthomas: Very big win for Cardiff City. Delighted for @Joe_Ralls to get a hattrick! Did very well to get the win after going behind and then playing with ten men. Important we got the win today, and we did.
@John51210576: We deserved the result. If your lot had taken your chances in the first 20 minutes the result would have been different.
@Titch_7: What can I say about today. I stand by my firm fact - 3 points is 3 points! City were pretty awful, luck was on our side with the penalties and two lovely worked goals. Two sending offs. On to Bristol.
@albymarch_alan: Well, that was quite a game today @CardiffCityFC despite the awful weather. 6 goals. 2 red cards. 2 penalties. A @Joe_Ralls hat-trick. A @CurtisNelson_ debut goal. A win and 3 points.

        Read more here.
      
 
