
# Leaked Motorola RAZR foldable images show the phone from nearly every angle

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:12:38+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/leaked-motorola-razr-foldable-renders-show-upcoming-phone-nearly-every-angle?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Evleaks on Twitter
      
Yesterday, we got our very first look at Motorola's upcoming foldable RAZR smartphone, courtesy of reliable leaker Evan Blass. Blass has now tweeted out some more photos of the upcoming device, giving us a detailed look at it from various angles.

        Source: Evleaks on Twitter
      
As shown by the image shared by Blass yesterday, Motorola's first foldable smartphone will be almost identical in terms of design to the original RAZR V3 phone that was released in 2004. We also see a 'chin' at the bottom, similar to the original RAZR phone, with a button that likely houses a fingerprint sensor. The phone will have a 6.2-inch flexible OLED display, which users will be able to fold in half thanks to the hinge mechanism.
In addition to the 6.2-inch primary display, the foldable phone will include a 2.7-inch secondary display that will show the time, weather information, as well as notifications. Users will also be able to use the secondary display as a viewfinder when taking selfies.
Unlike the Samsung Galaxy Fold, Motorola's upcoming foldable RAZR will not be a flagship-grade offering in terms of tech specs. The phone is rumored to be powered by a mid-range Snapdragon 710 chipset, paired with up to 6GB RAM and 128GB storage. While the rest of the phone's specs remain a mystery right now, we will not have to wait very long to find out more. Motorola is expected to formally unveil the foldable RAZR smartphone at an event in Los Angeles on November 13.

        Best Motorola Phones in 2019
      

        Huawei iPad Mate Pro Huawei's upcoming Android tablet is an iPad Pro with a hole-punch display New renders of a possible Huawei flagship tablet with a thin bezel and front camera hole-punch design have leaked. Is it just us, or does this thing look an awful lot like the latest iPad Pro?
      

        4K HDR pass-through Elgato HD60S+ Capture Card review: A PS4 Pro streamer's dream The new Elgato HD60S+ is a dream streaming tool for anyone who games in 4K HDR, such as on the Xbox One X and PS4 Pro. Here's our review.
      

        Ultra-Wide Motorola One Action now available in the U.S. for $350 or less The Motorola One Action is now available in the U.S. and combines a GoPro-like action camera and a smartphone into one affordable $350 package. Pick one up now and you can save $50 off the retail price.
      

        No accidents here These cases will help save your Moto One Zoom from accidental disasters Motorola has finally released the Moto One Zoom with its quad-camera goodness. Now, it would be a travesty if something were to happen to the device and you didn't have a case on it. Luckily, we have found the best cases for you to consider for the One Zoom.
      
