
# 1,000 Google Employees Are Sick of Their Bosses' Half-Assed Climate Efforts

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:30:10+00:00**

Author: **Bryan Menegus**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/1000-google-employees-are-sick-of-their-bosses-half-assed-climate-efforts/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+uk%2Fgizmodo+%28Gizmodo+UK%29&hl=en)

Google – a company headquartered on Earth – has not always been keen to cave to the demands of its increasingly vocal and organised staff. Nonetheless, 1,000 Googlers have now signed a letter seeking to force the company to reckon with its role in accelerating climate change, a thing that would seem to be a no-brainer.
Within the burgeoning movement of tech workers organising to hold their respective megacorporations to account, Googlers have been some of the most outspoken, rallying around causes as diverse as government censorship, partnerships with the military, and the comparatively poor working conditions of contractors. Their efforts have often led to tangible victories. Nor is this the first time Google workers have made their voices heard on the subject of climate accountability. Alongside fellow tech workers at Amazon and Microsoft, an estimated 700 Googlers walked off the job as part of a massive climate action protest in late September.
So what does Google have to do with the warming of Earth and the resulting catastrophic weather events? As my colleague Maddie Stone reported at length, “data centres, computers, smartphones, and other internet-connected devices take a prodigious amount of energy to build and to run, thus contributing to global warming and hastening our collective demise.” In Google’s case, that was around 4.9 million tonnes of greenhouse gases in 2018, according to the company’s environmental report. And while a data centre humming away in some exurb doesn’t have the same sheen of wastefulness or pollution as the aviation industry or, say, a coal plant, tech does its fair share of working hand-in-filthy-glove with many of those dirtier sectors.
Amazon, rather infamously, has aggressively pursued relationships with oil giants like BP and Aramco, while Microsoft has partnered with the US petrol company Chevron. Google was found to have made considerable contributions to climate denier groups, like the Competitive Enterprise Institute, according to a recent report from the Guardian.
Not coincidentally, these thousand workers are calling on Google to not only reach zero emissions within the next decade but to abandon business relationships with fossil fuel or climate change denial entities of any kind.
“I work in customer support. I signed the letter because when I work on a support case from the oil industry I see my effort going to destroying the planet. Google needs to tackle its impact across the board with comprehensive and swift action,” David Newgas, one of the signatories and a technical program manager on Google Cloud, told Gizmodo in an email. “Google has customers using our servers and our software to find and extract oil. The technology Google provides the oil industry technology leads to more CO2 going into the atmosphere. At the same time, Google is donating to politicians with a voting record of denying or delaying action on climate change resulting in policies that accelerate the climate crisis. In the 2018 cycle Google’s PAC donated to 111 politicians who voted against climate legislation at least 90% of the time.”
The letter is addressed to the company’s chief financial officer, Ruth Porat. The group targeted Porat rather than CEO Sundar Pichai because Porat has “the highest level of direct responsibility for climate change [and] is responsible for overseeing climate-related issues as she has visibility across all of the company’s operations,” in the words of an Alphabet report on the company’s climate change response.
Google declined to comment. You can read the letter in full below, while the complete list of names can be found on Medium.

        Featured image: Mason Trinca (Getty)
      
