
# Our terrible sex life is making me question our marriage

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:09:21+00:00**

Author: **Guardian Staff**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2019/nov/01/husband-lovemaking-question-future-together)


        My husband is a good man but doesn’t satisfy me in bed, and I have to remind him to do anything around the house
      

        My husband and I have been together for nine years, 
        and have two kids
        . He’s a good man: he cares about us, cooks for us and takes the kids to school. But I don’t feel sexually satisfied. I was his first girlfriend, although I had a few sexual partners before him. He is clumsy in bed, and often foreplay involves a lot of awkward elbows digging into me or fingers poking me uncomfortably. His lack of confidence is really unappealing. I also feel like a nag because I have to remind him to do anything around the house. I am struggling to feel I want to spend the rest of my life with him. Is there anything we can do to make our marriage better?
      

        •
         When leaving a message on this page, please be sensitive to the fact that you are responding to a real person in the grip of a real-life dilemma, who wrote to Private Lives asking for help, and may well view your comments here. Please consider especially how your words or the tone of your message could be perceived by someone in this situation, and be aware that comments that appear to be disruptive or disrespectful to the individual concerned will be removed.
      

        • Comments on this piece are premoderated to ensure discussion remains on topics raised by the writer. Please be aware there may be a short delay in comments appearing on the site.
      

        • If you would like fellow readers to respond to a dilemma of yours, send us an outline of the situation of about 150 words. For advice from Pamela Stephenson Connolly on sexual matters, send us a brief description of your concerns.
      

        • All correspondence should reach us by Wednesday morning. Email 
        private.lives@theguardian.com
         (please don’t send attachments). Submissions are subject to our terms and conditions: see
        
           gu.com/letters-terms
        
        .
      
