
# How 'new Neymar' Rodrygo announced himself with 'perfect' hat-trick

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:06:16+00:00**

Author: **Tom Garry**

Original: [BBC Sport](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/50296542)


        Brazilian forward Rodrygo announced himself on club football's biggest stage with a 'perfect' hat-trick in Real Madrid's 6-0 defeat of Galatasaray.
      
The 18-year-old became the second youngest player to score a Champions League treble, behind only Real legend Raul.
He has already been labelled the "new Neymar", having followed in the Paris St-Germain star's footsteps by moving from Brazilian club Santos to Spain.
Outside of South America, little was known about the 5ft 9in youngster - who is the the same height as Neymar - before his summer switch to Real.
Since then, Rodrygo has scored five times in his first six appearances for the club in all competitions.
"Hearing the Bernabeu singing my name is a dream come true," Rodrygo said. "I'm so happy, it has been a joyous night but I must try and stay calm."
The Bernabeu were saluting the teenager as early as the fourth minute when he clinically opened the scoring, left-footed, from his fellow countryman Marcelo's pass.
He got his second three minutes later as he headed in superbly from another Marcelo cross, becoming the first player to score twice in the first seven minutes of a Champions League game.

        View more on twitter
      
He was denied the chance of a quickfire hat-trick shortly afterwards, when captain Sergio Ramos stepped up to score a penalty after Steven Nzonzi had fouled Toni Kroos.
But Rodrygo provided an assist for Benzema on the stroke of half-time and the Frenchman returned the favour in second-half stoppage time.
The teenager - whose full name is Rodrygo Silva de Goes - completed his 'perfect' hat-trick as he poked in with his right foot to cap a crushing 6-0 win.
"He doesn't surprise me," said Real boss Zinedine Zidane. "He has a bit of everything.
"He is intelligent, he learns very fast and wants to learn and improve.
"Physically he has to get better but technically, he knows how to do everything with the ball."
Benzema added: "Rodrygo is only 18 years old but he is fearless. I love to see a young footballer play this way."
Wayne Rooney - also then 18 - was older than Rodyrgo when he scored a Champions League hat-trick on his Manchester United debut against another Turkish side, Fenerbahce, in 2004.

        View more on twitter
      
Benzema's brace saw him score in a 15th consecutive Champions League campaign, becoming only the second player - after Barcelona's Lionel Messi - to achieve the feat.
The 31-year-old French striker's first Champions League goal came at the age of 17, when he scored for Lyon against Rosenborg on 6 December, 2005.
That was his only goal of that European campaign, and he netted just once in Europe the following term too and just once in 2009-10, after his £25m move to Real in 2009.
In his 15 Champions League seasons he has scored 62 times, averaging more than four a season.
He has never been the top scorer in a Champions League season, but is fourth on the competition's all-time goalscoring list, behind only Cristiano Ronaldo, Messi and Raul.
The Frenchman scored against Liverpool in the final in 2018 and helped his side win four European titles between that year and 2014.
Messi became the first player to score in 15 straight Champions League seasons just two weeks before Benzema.
The Argentine set the record in a narrow win at Slavia Prague on 23 October.
Referee:Felix ZwayerAttendance:65,492
Home TeamReal MadridAway TeamGalatasarayPossessionHome69%Away31%ShotsHome20Away7Shots on TargetHome11Away1CornersHome7Away3FoulsHome5Away11
Posted at
Match ends, Real Madrid 6, Galatasaray 0.
Posted at 90'+3'
Second Half ends, Real Madrid 6, Galatasaray 0.
Posted at 90'+2'
Goal! Real Madrid 6, Galatasaray 0. Rodrygo (Real Madrid) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Karim Benzema with a through ball.
Posted at 89'
Foul by Ferland Mendy (Real Madrid).
Posted at 89'
Mariano (Galatasaray) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 88'
Substitution, Galatasaray. Adem Büyük replaces Yuto Nagatomo.
Posted at 84'
Corner, Real Madrid. Conceded by Christian Luyindama.
Posted at 81'
Goal! Real Madrid 5, Galatasaray 0. Karim Benzema (Real Madrid) left footed shot from very close range to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Daniel Carvajal.
Posted at 80'
Daniel Carvajal (Real Madrid) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 80'
Foul by Marcão (Galatasaray).
Posted at 80'
Attempt blocked. Omer Bayram (Galatasaray) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Marcão.
Posted at 78'
Attempt blocked. Karim Benzema (Real Madrid) left footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Isco with a through ball.
Posted at 78'
Attempt saved. Mario Lemina (Galatasaray) header from very close range is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Christian Luyindama.
Posted at 78'
Attempt missed. Christian Luyindama (Galatasaray) header from the centre of the box misses to the left. Assisted by Omer Bayram with a cross following a corner.
Posted at 78'
Corner, Galatasaray. Conceded by Raphael Varane.
Posted at 76'
Attempt blocked. Sofiane Feghouli (Galatasaray) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Mariano.
Posted at 74'
Corner, Real Madrid. Conceded by Fernando Muslera.
Posted at 74'
Attempt saved. Karim Benzema (Real Madrid) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Rodrygo.
Posted at 72'
Foul by Luka Modric (Real Madrid).
Posted at 72'
Jean Michael Seri (Galatasaray) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 70'
Attempt missed. Sergio Ramos (Real Madrid) header from the centre of the box misses to the left. Assisted by Luka Modric with a cross following a corner.
Posted at 69'
Corner, Real Madrid. Conceded by Ryan Donk.
Posted at 68'
Corner, Real Madrid. Conceded by Fernando Muslera.
Posted at 68'
Attempt saved. Isco (Real Madrid) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Toni Kroos with a cross.
Posted at 68'
Substitution, Real Madrid. Isco replaces Eden Hazard.
Posted at 67'
Corner, Real Madrid. Conceded by Ryan Donk.
Posted at 67'
Attempt missed. Karim Benzema (Real Madrid) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left.
Posted at 67'
Attempt saved. Toni Kroos (Real Madrid) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner.
Posted at 64'
Toni Kroos (Real Madrid) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 64'
Foul by Mario Lemina (Galatasaray).
Posted at 63'
Luka Modric (Real Madrid) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Posted at 63'
Foul by Omer Bayram (Galatasaray).
Posted at 60'
Substitution, Real Madrid. Luka Modric replaces Casemiro.
Posted at 57'
Ryan Babel (Galatasaray) is shown the yellow card.
Posted at 57'
Foul by Rodrygo (Real Madrid).
Posted at 57'
Marcão (Galatasaray) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 51'
Eden Hazard (Real Madrid) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 51'
Foul by Christian Luyindama (Galatasaray).
Posted at 50'
Attempt missed. Karim Benzema (Real Madrid) left footed shot from a difficult angle on the left is too high. Assisted by Casemiro with a cross.
Posted at 48'
Offside, Galatasaray. Yuto Nagatomo tries a through ball, but Ryan Babel is caught offside.
Show more updatesgoal
