
# Wenger Makes Big Admission Amid Return Rumours

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:13:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/bundesliga-news/arsene-wenger-makes-big-admission-amid-return-rumours/666968)

Amid speculation he could join one of the biggest teams in European football, former Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has made a surprisingly big admission.

        
          9 Stars Who Were Stripped Of The Captain's Armband
        
      
Following Niko Kovac's recent departure from the German giants, a number of top managers across Europe have been linked as his replacement.
The likes of Jose Mourinho and Erik ten Hag are among those tipped to take over at the Bundesliga giants, as is ex-Gunners manager Wenger.
Asked recently if he would be tempted to take the job at Bayern, the Frenchman admitted he would never turn down the chance to enter into discussions with the club's chiefs.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
"I'd never refuse to talk to Bayern Munich because I have known the people who lead the club for 30 years," Wenger told beIN SPORTS.
"I was nearly going to Bayern a long, long time ago. At the moment, that's all I can say. At the moment, I haven't talked to them at all."
Wenger was then asked if he thought negotiations could follow.
"I don't know. We haven't talked to each other, and I don't know," he answered.
"I want to just do what I like now. I've not decided yet if I will go back (to coach) on the pitch or not. I'm quite happy with what I'm doing, but I miss the pitch as well.
"It's a difficult decision for me at the moment. I will make that decision in the coming days or in the coming weeks."

        
          Wenger Slams Barca After Team Is Booed Off Field
        
      
Wenger spent 22 years in charge of Arsenal, winning three Premier League titles and seven FA Cups along the way.
