
# Christian Pulisic laments Chelsea's draw against Ajax - despite coming back from 4-1 down

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Darren Lewis, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-lewis/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/christian-pulisic-laments-chelseas-draw-20827322)

For Christian Pulisic, ­Tuesday’s white-knuckle ride with Chelsea was his most incredible since... the last one he was involved in two years ago.
As a Borussia Dortmund player back then, the American winger saw his team race into a 4-0 lead against Schalke after just 25 ­minutes – only to concede four goals in the final half-hour to draw in the Bundesliga.
Unsurprisingly, Pulisic was ­unwilling to relive the frustration of that day in November 2017.
“Yes, I’ve been in some wild games before,” he said. “I remember being up 4-0 in Dortmund and tying 4-4. I don’t want to talk about that, but this game was crazy.”
Crazy, indeed. Aside from the eight goals in the 4-4 thriller, Chelsea ’s draw with Ajax saw two red cards, two penalties, two own-goals and another VAR intervention.
It has already gone down as one of the most remarkable contests ever seen at Stamford Bridge – and they’ve seen a few, especially in the Champions League.
Ajax were still attacking with only nine men and two minutes to go. Their right-back, Noussair Mazraoui, was on the overlap hunting a winner when he had a shot saved in the 88th minute.
For Chelsea, the night was soured only by the fact that one of those VAR interventions saw what looked to be Cesar Azpilicueta’s ­winner ruled out for handball.
“You’d think a draw would be an ­unbelievable result,” said Pulisic. “But we wanted more. We scored a winner, and it was taken back – it was tough.”
So incredible were events on the night, the 21-year-old didn’t even ­realise Ajax had had two players – Daley Blind and Joel Veltman – sent off within ­seconds of each other.
Blind was dismissed for a second yellow card while ­Veltman saw red for handling the ball in the box.
“The second penalty made the game even wilder and gave us more confidence to get those next two goals,” ­Pulisic said.
“The whole thing was crazy, I didn’t even realise they got two red cards, to be honest.”
The Blues’ recovery ­underlined the spirit being fostered by Frank ­Lampard at the Bridge.
Critics claimed his young side would ­struggle, with the club ­unable to spend because of a transfer ban. Yet they have now won seven of their last nine games, losing only one.
Pulisic added: “We’re not really too worried about what’s going on on the outside. We know what we’re capable of and we’re just going to keep going.
“At half-time, when we were 3-1 down, we said to each other, ‘We are never going to give up, we can go out and win this game’. We showed a lot of fight and came back.
“It’s the manager who gives us that confidence – the one who pushes us.”
But Dusan Tadic savaged ­referee ­Gianluca Rocchi for the dual sending off that saw his Ajax side ­collapse from 4-1 up to 4-4.
The winger said: “We must be furious. I don’t understand that he gives red twice in one ­action. It was just not possible to play ­football with nine men.”
