
# Tinker: Pirates Were Not Great

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/eric-tinker-pirates-were-not-great/666810)

Despite claiming a point against Orlando Pirates, Maritzburg United head coach Eric Tinkler was not pleased with his side's display on the night.

        Read: Two Red Cards, No Goals, Bucs Drop Points
      
Maritzburg's five-game winless run in all competitions was halted following a goalless draw with the Buccaneers on Tuesday evening.
Tinkler felt Pirates were there for taking at Orlando Stadium, but his side lacked the intensity for the encounter.
"wWe weren't really good to be brutally honest, I don't think we played with the intensity required for this game. We needed to play with a much higher intensity especially in the first-half, there were so many opportunities on transitions to really go and hurt them," Tinkler told SuperSport after the match.
"But we didn't show that, we didn't really show that intent, because of that we started to drop off, we gave them a lot of space and the quality that they have, they gonna come and hurt you," he continued.
"So we tried to rectify that at half-time and I felt first ten, 15 minutes we were a lot better in the second half, I thought we created a few opportunities and threatened them a lot more. They got the red-card, our intensity was still not good enough, we should have punished them when they went [down] to ten men and we didn't. We got a stupid second yellow [card] and then we looked like we were playing.
"So for me disappointing performance overall, really disappointing. Silly sending off to be honest [of Kwanda Mngonyama], you have to take advantage of the extra man, you have cover because they are a man down, there's no need for a foul, I can understand if you're the last man but you're not. So it's a silly challenge from him to be sent off.
"The intensity was simply not good enough, we'll take a point. Are we happy with a point? Yes, but I expected more from the players to be honest. I don't think they [Pirates] were great to be honest, first-half a lot of the balls played over the top that were going straight to Richard [Ofori], once or twice Richard had to make a save but they didn't look like a threat to be honest but we had great opportunities on the transition if we wanted to.
"The problem is we didn't want to, I really thought we could've hurt them. The [second] yellow card for Happy Jele comes because it's the first time we've shown the intent, wanting to play on the transition and now you get him sent off, but you had many of those opportunities in the first-half that you didn't take advantage of and especially when they went down to ten [men]," he said.
