
# Britain's biggest family The Radfords reveal their 22nd baby will be a girl

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:42:16+00:00**

Author: **Amber Hicks, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/, Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/britains-biggest-family-reveal-22nd-20791756)

Britain's biggest family is poised to grow even bigger - with a Lancashire couple announcing they are expecting their 22nd child.
Sue and Noel Radford have announced they are expecting a girl - meaning they will have 11 girls and 11 boys.
Sue, 44, told The Sun she can't wait to give birth again.
She said: "Most people have one of each sex and stop there.
"It is perfect to have an exact balance of boys to girls so we have 11 to 11.
 
"I can't wait to go shopping for lovely pink clothes for her now."
Sue and Noel, who run a bakery in Morcambe, live in a 10 bedroom, four storey house which used to be a care home.
Sue - who was 14 when first child Chris was born - said after their last daughter, Bonnie, was born, they were not expecting any more.
She said their children were so excited that they decided to find out the gender of the unborn child rather than keep it a surprise.
 
They are parents to Chris, aged 30, Sophie, 26, Chloe, 24, Jack, 23, Daniel, 21, Luke, 19, Millie, 18, Katie, 16, James, 15, Ellie, 13, Aimee, 13, Josh, 12, Max, 10, Tillie, eight, Oscar, seven, Casper, six, Hallie, four, Phoebe, three, and Archie, two, and Bonnie, one.
Their new arrival is due in April next year.
The Radfords first found fame in 2012 when their lives were the focus of a Channel 4 documentary called 15 Kids and Counting.
Baby  Bonnie was the last addition to the brood in November bringing the number of children to a whopping 21.
She arrived after a swift 12 minute labour weighing 8lb 4oz - and the couple, who have been having children for three decades, vowed she would be their last and had completed their family.
Sue and Noel run their own pie business and do not claim extra state benefits.
Some of the oldest offspring have since moved out and started families of their own with Sue and Noel being grandparents to four.
And when the entire family appeared on ITV's This Morning in January 2018, Sue said: "Archie is definitely going to be the last Radford baby."
But eldest daughter Sophie, who has three kids herself, shook her head and claimed she "can't see her mum stopping" - and she wasn't wrong as months later Sue fell pregnant with Bonnie.
Childhood sweethearts Sue and Noel's first child, Chris, was born when Sue was aged just 14.
The parents were both given up for adoption after they were born, and they decided to keep Chris and raise him as teenage parents.
They got married and had their second child, Sophie, when Sue was 17.
Noel even had a vasectomy, later reversed, after baby number nine.
The pair face a monumental task each day just to feed, clothe and ferry about their huge brood.
They spend an estimated £30,000 a year of their own money bringing up their children - including birthdays with a reported budget of £100 per child and Christmas at £100 to £250 per child.
In addition, they also have a holiday abroad each year.
And as we previously revealed, the family keep their home immaculate - as they proved in a house tour of their 'gorgeous' home.
