
# Opinion: The UCP budget is bad enough, but it's cruel to AISH recipients

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:49:31+00:00**

Author: **Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/columnists/opinion-the-ucp-budget-is-bad-enough-but-its-cruel-to-aish-recipients)

The budget presented by Premier Jason Kenney and the UCP will force every single Albertan to pay for his $4.7-billion no-jobs corporate giveaway.
Every Albertan will pay more in income taxes, more in property tax and more in a wide range of fees from tuition to mortgages to vehicle registration.
But Premier Kenney’s most cruel choice was to reduce the value of benefits for Albertans with severe disabilities.
The Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped program, or AISH, provides a basic monthly income for Albertans who are unable to work due to their disability. This payment had not changed since 2012, so the real ability to buy food and pay rent for Albertans on AISH fell behind the rising cost of living every year.
Last fall, our NDP government took progressive action to finally raise AISH and index annual increases to inflation. Rather than leaving these Albertans to beg year after year for an increase, we chose to listen to them and respect their needs. Our decision to do this was unanimously supported by all parties in the legislature at the time, including the UCP.
Albertans living on AISH are often just getting by, and frequently slipping below the poverty line. These are people living with profound disabilities in their daily lives that impact their ability to work. It is important for Albertans to understand that Premier Kenney made a deliberate choice to finance his $4.7-billion corporate handout and his $30-million war room by cutting modest cost of living increases for severely disabled Albertans.
It sounds subtle, but it means about $30 a month less in a disabled person’s budget this year, and as much as $120 a month less by 2023. That’s a week’s worth of groceries. That’s a heating bill. That’s the difference between making rent and facing homelessness.
When we hear Premier Kenney shrug this off as “not too onerous,” it’s clear that he and Minister Rajan Sawhney are both completely out of touch with the reality of life for Albertans with severe disabilities.
It’s important to note that the minister initially tried to claim she wasn’t taking money away from Albertans with a severe handicap. Albertans saw right through that lie.
According to the government’s own data, Minister Sawhney and the UCP will withhold $209 million worth of AISH payments over the next four years.
Albertans should remember that one of Premier Kenney’s first acts was to spend $4.7 billion on a massive corporate handout. This extravagant gift has been paid out to corporate shareholders and banks but hasn’t created any jobs. In fact, Alberta has lost 27,000 jobs on Premier Kenney’s watch. Husky Energy received almost a quarter of a billion dollars from the handout — that’s more than Minister Sawhney took from disabled Albertans — and it still laid off more than 100 workers last month. Encana received $55 million in handouts and its headquarters is leaving Alberta altogether.
I am extremely disappointed to see Minister Sawhney write that Budget 2019 aligns with her values. Apparently, her values include taking food and shelter away from Albertans with a severe disability to pay for a $4.7-billion no-jobs corporate handout.

        Marie Renaud is the NDP critic for the Ministry of Community and Social Services.
      
