
# iPhone 11 Pro or Pixel 4 XL? You can't go wrong with either phone

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:00:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/iphone-11-pro-vs-pixel-4-xl?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)

Google didn't play it safe with the Pixel 4 XL. It used the phone to introduce a 90Hz display, a new face unlock system, dual rear cameras for the first time, and more. Save for lackluster battery life and storage options, this is one of Android's best phones.

        From $899 at Amazon
      
The iPhone 11 Pro looks a lot like Apple's past two generations of handsets, but it makes upgrades in all the right places. It has excellent battery life, blazing-fast performance, and one of the best camera packages available on any smartphone in 2019.

        From $999 at Amazon
      
The iPhone 11 Pro and Google Pixel 4 XL are just as alike as they are different. Both phones have glass designs with a matte finish, jaw-dropping cameras, great performance, and the best software experience their respective ecosystems have to offer. As with any iOS vs. Android comparison, the ultimate decision comes down to which platform works best for you.

        Source: Joe Maring / Android Central
      
You might think that the iPhone 11 Pro and Pixel 4 XL would be drastically different devices, but in reality, these two handsets offer very similar experiences.
Starting first with the design/hardware, both Apple and Google have opted for a glass back with a matte finish. The iPhone 11 Pro has more of a frosted aesthetic that still feels like glass, whereas the Pixel 4 XL's back almost feels like a premium plastic. No matter which one you prefer, both look and feel great in day-to-day use.
Also shared between these phones is the use of an OLED display. Both panels are razor-sharp, have vibrant colors, and wonderfully deep blacks. Where the Pixel 4 XL pulls ahead, however, is with its 90Hz refresh rate. This makes everything on the Pixel's display move with much more fluidity compared to the traditional 60Hz screen on the iPhone 11 Pro, and it's a feature that's hard to live without once you experience it in person for yourself.
