
# Three-Time Cancer Survivor, Capitol Hill Staffer to Run NYC Marathon

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:03:13+00:00**

Author: **Amy Furr**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/health/2019/11/02/three-time-cancer-survivor-capitol-hill-staffer-to-run-new-york-city-marathon/)

Thirty-seven-year-old Kristina Baum, who works in the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, is no quitter when it comes to a challenge.
She has battled melanoma three times since 2012 and was declared cancer-free on June 17 of this year.
In September, Baum told Beverly Hallberg of the Independent Women’s Forum that when she was diagnosed the first time, it did not seem real.
She commented:
However, Baum was not going down without a fight. Since 2012, she has “covered more than 700 miles by way of one full marathon, 10 half marathons, half a dozen 5Ks and triathlons, and all the miles her pink and turquoise Topo Ultraflys have torn up in between,” according to RollCall.com.
When doctors told Baum in January that she had a brain metastases, or melanoma tumor, she said the right to try different drugs during treatment made a huge difference.
She continued:
Even though she is in remission, Baum noted that the reality that the cancer may return is something she has learned to live with on a daily basis.
She said:
However, Baum is looking forward to joining her fellow athletes at the starting line on Sunday morning.
“You have to dig deep into this file of why you’re doing this in the first place. That’s where you find the reason to keep putting one foot in front of the other,” she concluded.
