
# Paul Heckingbottom on the lifetime of hard knocks pushing him through Hibs test

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Parks, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gordon-parks/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/paul-heckingbottom-lifetime-hard-knocks-20792244)

Paul Heckingbottom has had a lifetime preparing for any scenario that comes in today’s Betfred Cup semi-final against Celtic.
Even if a heavy defeat and the sack are the eventual outcome, the Englishman insists he has already been well schooled in a game of hard knocks and knows the consequences of failure.
Hibs may be unbeaten in their last six games but it has been nowhere near enough to silence dissenting voices at Easter Road which are in danger of reaching a crescendo.
But Heckingbottom prefers a philosophical approach to management where fate plays a hand and admits he has learned to turn down the background noise as he aims to book a final spot and ease some of the pressure.
The Easter Road boss said: “There is no point in worrying about your job when you are a manager. Not at all.
“The one thing you have to get your head around, and what you have to understand, is that you get judged on everything.
“I had a chat with an ex-England international before coming to Hibs and we were talking about all things management, football and coaching. Just picking each other’s brain.
“He said ‘I’ve never had an argument with an owner. I said, ‘You’re not doing your job properly then!’
“However, he said something else to me which I hadn’t even thought about. From when you are seven years old, everyone has an opinion on you.
 
“Then you get older and people judge you against the other good players, then it’s whether to sign you as a schoolboy and whether to keep you. Then it’s whether to give you a YTS, then are you good enough for pro?
“Then you have 30,000 people shouting at you, saying you’re no good or you are good. That’s tenfold when you are a manager. It gives you a bit of perspective.
“So you can be thickened, hard-skinned and grown up in that sort of way. You can become hardened to it. You need to keep your distance from all that.
“If you let every little thing that’s said about you get to you then there’s not a chance you’d be able to do the job.
“The majority of people talking about you or writing about you don’t really know you.
“But once it’s down in print or being spoken about, people take it as fact. It’s a sort of mindset that you learn to ignore.”
All of this brutal honesty on the day after his counterpart Craig Levein was sacked at Hearts for his failings across the city.
But Heckingbottom claims he won’t be putting in a call of condolence to a man who’s taking his turn to suffer at the most ruthless end of the business.
He said: “I don’t have Craig’s number. But we’ve come across each other a few times, doing some charity work and playing against each other.
“We get on great and there is a respect for the job we’re doing because we know how difficult it can be.
“But I wouldn’t imagine he would want sympathy.
“We got into this job knowing what it is. And nobody would be sitting here if they didn’t enjoy it.
“Not every bit of it is enjoyable – but there is satisfaction to be had from the challenge, from knowing you’ve given everything in a tough job. So there is a big respect there for anyone who has done it.
“Craig has been through this before, he has had big success before. It’s part and parcel of the game.”
Make no mistake, today could become a tipping point for a manager who’s already on the edge.
But Heckingbottom is convinced his planning has to stay long-term and decisions will never be allowed to compromise his integrity.
He said: “You have to make decisions based on the longer term all the time.
“As soon as you just focus on the immediate things, it’s the things you’ve ignored that will get you the sack six months later anyway. So just keep doing the right things.
 
“There are certain things I wouldn’t bend, in those principles, just to stay in a job. Without a doubt they are more important to me. But one thing you can make sure you do is fight all the way.
“The biggest thing you can do is be the role model – and behave in a way you’d want everyone else to follow.
“You have to be happy going to bed at night, thinking, ‘Right, have I done everything I can?’ You must be like that.”
Heckingbottom aims to arrive at the National Stadium with a message to his players that they must believe they can dethrone the holders on an occasion which is only for the brave hearted.
He said: “We have no one to be scared of. In the three games we’ve played against Celtic we’ve drawn two and lost one, and in the one that we lost a couple of moments of magic from their good players took the game away from us.
“But we understand they’ve got that in their locker and that is what you have to guard against. We have to limit their chances and take the ones that we create.”
