
# Heidi Klum leads gruesome celebrity Halloween costumes as terrifying alien

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:29:12+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Young**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/heidi-klum-halloween-party-costume-mariah-carey-jonathan-van-ness-a9180346.html?utm_term=Autofeed&utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter)

When it comes to Halloween, supermodel Heidi Klum is in a league of her own.
The former Project Runway host has earned a reputation as the queen of All Hallows' Eve with her extravagant costumes including an old-age pensioner, the werewolf from Michael Jackson’s “Thriller” music video and Princess Fiona from Shrek.
For 2019, Klum pulled out all the stops, undergoing a 12-hour transformation into a nightmarish alien for her 20th Annual Halloween Party at Cathédrale New York.
The model documented the making of her costume in front of a live audience as she sat in the window of an Amazon bookshop in New York City while a team of make-up artists got to work.
Klum also kept her followers on social media updated throughout the day, posting videos and photographs of the labour-intensive makeover on Twitter and Instagram. 
“Let’s get this party started!” Klum wrote on Thursday morning, alongside a photo of her sat in the shop window.
Klum's entrance to the party was just as intense as her costume, as she was driven to the event in a vehicle made from glass, splattered with blood and covered in biohazard symbols.
The model’s husband, Tom Kaulitz, accompanied her as an astronaut, covered in blood with a shattered space helmet.
Speaking to Entertainment Tonight, Kaulitz revealed the backstory behind the couple’s creepy costumes, saying: “So I was on a mission in outer space, looking for a new planet, because we almost destroyed ours. 
“So I found her and I brought her back, because I thought she might have some useful information for us.”
Klum’s party was a star-studded affair with an impressive guest list that included Mariah Carey; models Taylor Hill and Duckie Thot; Queer Eye stars Jonathan Van Ness and Antoni Porowski; and actor Dylan Sprouse.
Attendees went all out for the event with elaborate costumes that saw Halima Aden dress up as Maleficent and actor Neil Patrick Harris and David Burtka transform into the Olsen Twins.
