
# Barcelona still suffering 'post-traumatic stress' four months on from Liverpool defeat

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:44:35+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/barcelona-still-suffering-post-traumatic-20814627)

The Barcelona players are reportedly still in a 'state of shock' four months on from Liverpool's dramatic comeback victory in the Champions League.
The Catalan giants lead Liverpool by three goals to nil going into the second leg of their semi-final last season. But the Reds hit back at Anfield and inexplicably turned the tie around.
Divock Origi kick-started proceedings with Liverpool's opener in the seventh minute, but Barcelona still had a very healthy 3-1 lead going into the break.
In the second half the Reds pushed on with dramatic results, and it wasn't long before they doubled their lead through Georginio Wijnaldum.
The Dutchman bagged his second just two minutes later before Origi - on the same page as the quick-thinking Trent Alexander-Arnold - won Liverpool the tie.
The Barcelona players have previously spoken out about the effect the defeat had on them.
But according to fresh reports from Spanish publications AS, Mundo Deportivo and La Vanguardia, via Sport Witness, some players are still feeling mentally fragile as a result.
One report claims certain Barcelona players are 'paralysed four months on' from suffering one of the 'cruelest' defeats in the club's history.
While another adds that even the new players, like summer signing Antoine Griezmann, are feeling the effects of 'Anfield syndrome'.
Barcelona were beaten 3-1 by La Liga rivals Levante last time out, conceding a staggering three times in seven minutes.
The collapse has been attributed to the 'post-traumatic stress' the players are suffering, according to the Spanish media.
