
# GDB, Censof, Crescendo, IFCA MSC, Luster and Parlo

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:40:55+00:00**

Author: **Justin Lim**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/gdb-censof-crescendo-ifca-msc-luster-and-parlo)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 5): theedgemarkets.com highlighted six stocks with momentum at Bursa Malaysia's afternoon close today. One stock displayed positive momentum while five stocks displayed negative momentum.
The stock with positive momentum was:
GDB Holdings Bhd - up two sen at 37.5sen
The stocks with negative momentum were:
Censof Holdings Bhd - up half a sen at 14.5sen
Crescendo Corp Bhd - unchanged at RM1.18
IFCA MSC Bhd - up one sen at 55.5 sen
Luster Industries Bhd - unchanged at 10.5 sen
Parlo Bhd - fell half a sen at 9.5 sen
The list of stocks with momentum is generated using a proprietary mathematical algorithm highlighting stocks with a build-up in trading volume and price. The algorithm differentiates between stocks that exhibit positive (+ve) momentum and negative (-ve) momentum.
This list is not a buy or sell recommendation. It merely tells you which stocks are seeing higher than normal volume and price movements.
The share price may move up or down from this point. But the “+ve” (suggesting a rising price trend on volume) and “-ve” (suggesting a falling price trend on volume) indicators should give readers a better idea of what the market is buying and when to sell. Note also that momentum generally only persists for a short period of time.
However, each stock has an accompanying fundamental score and valuation score to help readers evaluate the attractiveness of the stocks, if they want to ride the momentum.
For more detailed financial information and reports on the above-mentioned stocks, please subscribe to AbsolutelyStocks at www.absolutelystocks.com
