
# Aberdeen 3 Kilmarnock 0: Dons inflict defeat on Angelo Alessio's injury-stricken side

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:51:24+00:00**

Author: **Lochlin Highet, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/lochlin-highet/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/aberdeen-3-kilmarnock-0-dons-20796468)

A defensively depleted Kilmarnock fell to a 3-0 defeat to Aberdeen.
With all four natural centre-backs unavailable, midfielders Gary Dicker and Iain Wilson were forced to fill in at the back.
Curtis Main, Sam Cosgrove and Scott McKenna all fired home to give the Dons a comfortable win.
Little chances fell for either side in the opening 10 minutes, but in the 12th the hosts raced ahead.
Main headed home unmarked after a Lewis Ferguson cross to fire the Pittodrie men into the lead.
Rory McKenzie had a good chance for the visitors in the 18th minute when he picked up the ball 25 yards out, his long-range effort was well saved by Joe Lewis.
Sam Cosgrove raced through on goal a minute later, but his eventual effort skewed wide.
in the 27th minute things went from bad to worse for Killie as Cosgrove doubled the Dons' lead.
Another free header, this time from a corner put the hosts two ahead.
Dom Thomas looked to create a spark of magic in the 39th minute when he attempted a speculative shot from 30 yards, but it flew over the crossbar.
Eamonn Brophy had half a chance three minutes later on the turn, but his effort was easily held by Lewis.
Alan Power went close with a deflected shot just before the break but again it was well saved by Lewis.
Cosgrove looked sure to make it three early in the second-half, but his effort smacked the post.
In the 70th minute Dons substitute Jon Gallagher went close twice in the space of a minute, forcing two top saves from Laurentiu Branescu.
Lewis Ferguson danced in from the right wing in the 72nd minute, but his shot was incredibly blocked on the line by Iain Wilson.
Main almost added his second in the 79th minute, but his back-post header was blocked out for a corner.
With six minutes left, Aberdeen made it three thanks to a poorly defended goal that was knocked in by Scott McKenna.
