
# Switch To The Truly Wireless Lifestyle With The Discounted Bose SoundSport Free

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:42:47+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/black-friday-sale-bose-soundsport-free-rare-discount)

The Bose SoundSport Free truly wireless headphones are currently on sale over at Amazon. At a price of just $169, good for $30 off.
This is one of the very few times that Bose discounts its products. So if you are looking to pick up a pair of Bose headphones, now is definitely the time to do just that.
Bose SoundSport Free are a great pair of truly wireless headphones, though some think that they are a bit too big, and do feel like they could fall out of your ears from time to time. Though they don't. They offer some really great sound quality, which makes them great for those that prefer better sound.
Advertisement
If you've used any other Bose products in the past, then the sound quality here won't be a surprise. It has Bose' signature sound, with some really deep bass, and some great mids and highs. It's not crazy powerful, so you can still hear all of the frequencies in your music. But it really pops when you listen using the Bose SoundSport Free.
Like most truly wireless headphones, the one place that the Bose SoundSport Free really suffers, is in the battery life department. You're going to get around five hours of battery on a single charge. That, actually isn't too bad. Most others are around three to four hours. But the carrying case doesn't give you much juice either. It'll give you about 10 additional hours – or two full recharges. That's not a lot. But thankfully, the carrying case isn't super thick or heavy. So there's that.
These are a really great pair of truly wireless headphones and they don't drop in price often. In fact, this is the first meaningful price drop since last Black Friday.
Advertisement
You can pick up the Bose SoundSport Free from Amazon by clicking here.

        Bose SoundSport Free - Amazon - $169
      
