
# Kim Kardashian Recreated Her Childhood Home For Kris Jenner's Birthday

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:28:40+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/kim-kardashian-recreated-her-childhood-home-for-kris-jenners-birthday-19301206)

The Kardashian family is known for their over-the-top gift-giving — ranging from Kylie Jenner buying her mom a brand-new Ferrari to Kourtney Kardashian being given actual dolls from Disneyland's "It's A Small World" ride — but Kim Kardashian's birthday present for Kris Jenner may have just earned the top spot. Kris turned 64 on Tuesday, and Kim surprised her mom and sisters by renting their childhood Los Angeles home. Kim's secret gift made everyone cry, but especially her mom who raised Kim, Kourtney, Khloé, and Rob Kardashian inside the house with her late ex-husband, Robert Kardashian Sr.
Kim explained on social media that she fooled Kris, her sisters (including Kylie and Kendall Jenner), and some of her mom's oldest friends into thinking they were having lunch at the Beverly Hills Hotel. Once everyone arrived at the hotel, the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star gave everyone the real invitations revealing the true birthday party location — the family's childhood home from the '80s.
As soon as Kris read the invite, she started to cry and it was an emotional moment for the entire family. Like Kim shared on Instagram, "All of our memories live here especially with our dad. It’s where each Kardashian child was born and made us who we are." She, Kris, and her sisters always remember Robert, who died in 2003, on special occasions like his birthday and father's day, so Kim's gift only furthers honoring him during a family celebration.
