
# Students surrender smartphones to new Gadget Box to improve learning

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Simon Doyle**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/04/news/students-surrender-smartphones-to-new-gadget-box-to-improve-learning-1755300/)

College students are improving their learning and communication skills by voluntarily handing over their mobile phones before class.
Staff reported that classrooms were more conducive to learning and young people were happy working in a safer environment.
The Gadget Box, which is being trialled at South West College, is the latest plan to minimise disruption and misuse of mobile technology.
The Irish News this month reported that schools are adopting tough policies to tackle cyber-bullying and classroom disruption.
Strict rules that include complete bans have come amid a rise in the number of pupils docked marks for bringing mobiles into examination rooms.
They also follow a high-profile `upskirting' court case in which a former pupil was found guilty of outraging public decency.
Teaching staff say they have become increasingly vulnerable with the widespread, unmonitored use of smartphones.
There is also a lack of an enforceable policy to ensure a safe working environment.
The Gadget Box was designed and created by Dungannon-based college lecturer John Lyons.
Mr Lyons said he invented the device after listening to student and peer concerns about smartphone use in classrooms.
Students voluntarily place their smartphones into a cabinet with individual compartments. These provide the option of charging phones during the lesson.
Leading by example, the teacher's smartphone too is pit inside the Gadget Box.
The teacher then closes the Gadget Box door, which can be only opened with a wireless keycard, and the lesson can commence. With the lesson free from interruption, at the end of the class, students are instructed to collect their phones.
During a trial at South West College, Mr Lyon said, students had taken ownership of their learning.
"Parents embrace the innovative solution, as they know their children's phone is safely contained and not a barrier to learning. Dangers such as cyberbullying, unsolicited photographs, distraction or simply time wasting are no longer prevalent whilst using the Gadget Box and staff can deliver an outstanding curriculum," Mr Lyons added.
"By giving the students the responsibility, to use the Gadget Box, staff have commended their maturity to take control of their learning. Students have reported a sense of calm using the Gadget Box and by embracing the change, they no longer feel anxious or have fear of missing out as they understand the benefits of parting with their smartphone for the duration of the lesson.
"Better communication skills, being able to engage with peers and having the confidence to impart their knowledge makes students more employable and better prepared for industry."
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
