
# 10,000th Renault Triber delivered

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:39:00+00:00**

Author: **Rivan RS**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/10000th-renault-triber-delivered-414817)

Triber sales have helped Renault register a month-on-month sales growth of 63 percent.
The Renault Triber has got off to a strong start. Renault has announced that it has delivered over 10,000 units of its new seven-seater to customers. The big news here is the early success of the Triber has helped the French carmaker post a whopping 63 percent month-on-month sales growth, with 11,516 units sold (wholesale) in October 2019.
This means that Renault India is now one of the best-performing carmakers in terms of sales in October 2019 – it has overtaken Honda Car India’s sales for the month (10,010 units) but still trails behind Kia (12,850 units) and Toyota (11,866 units).
The Triber launched in India at the end of August at Rs 4.95-6.49 lakh, though the top-spec variant’s price has been hiked recently by Rs 4,000. For now, the sub-four-metre seven-seater comes with a single powertrain option – a 72hp, 1.0-litre petrol engine that is paired with a 5-speed manual gearbox – though a turbo-petrol engine and an AMT gearbox option are expected to arrive in the near future.

        All prices are ex-showroom, Delhi
      

        Also see:
      

        
          Renault Triber interior highlights detailed
        
      

        
          2019 Renault Triber review, test drive
        
      

        
          Renault Triber: Which variant to buy?
        
      
Rs 5.48 lakh * On Road Price (New Delhi)

        FIND OUT MORE
      
