
# Strictly's Vick Hope and singer Rick Astley surprise music project with £10k Lottery award

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:10:06+00:00**

Author: **Dave Masters, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/dave-masters/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/lottery-awards-strictly-rick-astley-20748496)

Staging everything from classical and jazz to pop and hip hop, Sage Gateshead is home to some of the most incredible community projects in the region – each with music running through its veins.
Now the venue and its dedicated team have been honoured with a 25th Birthday National Lottery Award, with TV’s Vick Hope on hand last month to deliver the news they’d topped the public vote for the National Lottery’s Best Arts, Culture and Film Project.
“The whole process has been great,” said Abigail Pogson, Managing Director at Sage Gateshead. “Right from our initial involvement people have been saying such positive things and telling their stories about the centre.
“We’ve been thrilled to see how much it means to people. Being shortlisted and going on to win was wonderful, but even being nominated at the start was great because it encouraged people to talk about their experiences with us.
“It’s been a great time to go through the process because things can seem quite gloomy out there at the moment. The National Lottery Awards, and the stories we’ve heard from all the other winners, reminded us there are still a lot of good things happening – and a lot of good people doing wonderful things.”
Not least Abigail and her team.
As well as hosting major international pop acts and packed programmes of classical music throughout the year, Sage Gateshead runs a host of community groups and courses from top-end training for young musicians to the Silvers Programme for older people.
“We’re quite a big organisation so people have different experiences with us,” said Abigail. “But what really cuts through are the people and the feeling we can help move things forward. Some participants in the Silvers Programme have talked about how going along eases their loneliness or even helps them cope with bereavement.
“There are around 2,000 people involved in the programme, and they do all sorts of things. Some play the ukulele, some play in a band or a guitar group or sing in a choir. Involvement helps build structure into their week and expands their social circle.”
Abigail accepted the award on behalf of the team at the 25th Birthday National Lottery Awards in London in October, an event honouring the people and projects using National Lottery funding to do extraordinary things in their communities.
As well as a cash prize of £10,000, Sage Gateshead is now the proud owner of an iconic National Lottery Awards trophy.
“The awards night was amazing,” said Abigail. “Rick Astley presented the award, which was great because he has performed here twice – so he can vouch for us.
“It was a lovely event because there was a real sense of championing everything that happens through the funding.
“All the winning projects are very different but the common theme is they’re all about people supporting other people to make things better, and that’s fantastic.”
A short film featuring Vick Hope’s trip to the venue will be shown on BBC One on November 19 as part of The 25th Birthday National Lottery Awards, hosted by Ore Oduba.
