
# US pulls out of Paris climate agreement

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Agencies**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/news/world/us-pulls-out-of-paris-climate-agreement/articleshow/71930617.cms)

Global powers say US exit will seriously undermine historic pactWASHINGTON The Trump administration said on Monday it filed paperwork to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement, the first formal step in a one-year process to exit the global pact to fight climate change. The move is part of a broader strategy by President Donald Trump to reduce red tape on American industry, but comes at a time scientists and many world governments urge rapid action to avoid the worst impacts of global warming. Once it exits, the US – the top historic greenhouse gas emitter and leading oil and gas producer – will become the only country outside the accord. Announcing the move, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo reiterated Trump’s rationale in 2017 that the accord would disadvantage US businesses. “It was America that would suffer the straitjacket,” Pompeo told the Fox Business network. “It would be quintessentially unfair to the American people and to the American workers.” The European Union expressed disappointment. “The withdrawal of the United States from the Paris Agreement means that the rest of us must further increase our cooperation,”’ Krista Mikkonen, minister of environment for current European Council president Finland said in a statement on Tuesday. The US pullout “undermines this agreement in the most serious way, because it is the leading country in terms of emissions,” President Vladimir Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. Beijing also expressed "regret" over Washington's decision ahead of the planned signing Wednesday of a joint document on climate by President Xi Jinping and Macron. "We hope the US can take more responsibility, and do more to contribute a driving force to the multilateral cooperation process, instead of adding negative energy," said Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang. An official from the French presidential office accompanying President Emmanuel Macron on a state visit to China, said: “We regret this and this only makes the Franco-Chinese partnership on the climate and biodiversity more necessary.” The State Department’s letter to UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres starts the clock on a process that will be complete one day after the 2020 US presidential election.
