
# Dropped Twice In Three Games, Are Valverde’s Arthur Omissions Cause For Concern At FC Barcelona?

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Tom Sanderson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/tomsanderson/2019/11/04/dropped-twice-in-three-games-are-valverdes-arthur-omissions-cause-for-concern-at-fc-barcelona/)

Heading into the weekend, Ousmane Dembélé’s dropping from the FC Barcelona squad to face Levante made big news across the soccer world. Returning from suspension after serving a two-game ban for calling controversial referee Mateu Lahoz ‘very bad’ in the 4-0 home demolition of Sevilla, the omission of the French winger, who has had other disciplinary issues, was considered strange at the time.
Before that, there was also an overlooking of Brazilian midfielder Arthur for the final cut to face Valladolid, which coach Ernesto Valverde happily explained was due to a packed schedule of three games in seven days and to give Carles Aleñá a chance.
In the 5-1 romp on Tuesday however, Aleñá, who has featured for just 45 minutes across the whole season while linked with an exit to Tottenham Hotspur, did not get a run out at all while Arthur swiftly returned to the fold for the defending champions’ next encounter in La Liga.
Yet in what should have been a routine win against mid-table opposition at the Estadi Ciutat de València, Barça were thumped 3-1 after conceding three goals in seven minutes and the Seleção playmaker has been frozen out of the chance to face Slavia Prague in the Champions League.
Should this be a cause for concern?
Dubbed a ‘new Arthur’ for his improved professionalism, a player that did not complete 90 minutes once in the league last year - and just twice overall in separate UCL and Copa Del Rey outings - has wowed the Catalan press as a regular starter and finisher in games.
Also failing to score in his maiden season on the Iberian Peninsula, he has flown out of the tracks in his sophomore year with a first pair of goals and four assists in 2019/2020.
Forming a formidable partnership with Frenkie de Jong, the 23-year-old and his Dutch accomplice have been indispensable while forcing veterans such as Ivan Rakitic, Arturo Vidal and Sergio Busquets to fight for minutes as the third cog in a three man midfield.
On Saturday, though, he did not enjoy his best afternoon as Barcelona completed their worst start to a season on the road in 12 years and slumped to their third defeat on the road this term.
As replicated in the scrappy 1-2 win in the Czech capital a fortnight ago, he did not deal with the opposition’s press well in the centre of the park, could not get his side’s passing game up and running and lacked the intensity required to dictate the game at his pace in the possession-based approach that has seen him win plaudits.
With this in mind, it is perhaps for these reasons that Valverde has decided not to take the risk with the Grêmio academy product on this occasion. Maybe he will opt for the Busquets-De Jong-Vidal trio that trounced Valladolid, or give Rakitic a chance to force his way back into the immediate plans of the under-fire coach.
Until stated otherwise we should consider this solely a technical decision, yet the same logic was meant to apply to Dembélé’s snub until reports emerged this evening he had suffered a hamstring knock prior to revelation of the midweek squad.
Hours later, Dembélé, along with compatriot Samuel Umtiti, was given the green light. But for the second time in three games, Arthur was confirmed to be out in the cold in what are worrying developments for a figure considered essential to the future of the club.
