
# McDonald’s ditches posh Signature Collection range after 'poor sales'

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:25:36+00:00**

Author: **Sam Truelove**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mcdonalds-ditches-posh-signature-collection-20794206)

McDonald's has scrapped its range of posh burgers because of "poor sales".
Customers can no longer purchase the fast-food chain's Signature Collection after they were removed from the menu.
The premium burgers featured a thicker beef patty made from 100% British and Irish beef and was available in three flavours - The Classic, The BBQ and The Spicy each served in a brioche-style bun.
They were trialled in a number of restaurants before being relayed out across the UK in 2015.
They were developed with the help of chefs who had put their cooking skills to the test in Michelin-starred restaurants.
The three different flavours came at a higher price - £4.69 for an individual burger and £6.19 for a meal - and featured "higher quality ingredients" and served in a brioche-style bun.
In comparison, a Big Mac costs £3.19 while a plain hamburger is just 89p.
 
When the Signature Collection was launched McDonald's hoped it would give customers the chance to upgrade their burgers to something a bit more 'premium'.
According to The Sun , the decision to scrap the collection was taken in August due to "poor sales".
Although customers can no longer buy Signature Collection burgers, McDonald's has not ruled out bringing the collection back sometime in the future.
A spokesperson for McDonald’s said: “We are sorry to disappoint fans of the range, which launched in the UK in 2015, and might return in the future as part of a limited time food promotion.”
McDonald's has been in the mood of scrapping items off its menu of late.
The fast food giant scrapped its Dairy Milk and Crunchie McFlurries but tried to console ice-cream fans by replacing them and making Smarties and Malteasers permanent fixtures instead.
But it's not been all bad news for McDonald's fans.
They gave its Bacon Roll a major upgrade with a new and improved recipe, added a new Chicken Salad and a wrap - The Hot Cajun Chicken One.
