
# Hubballi-Hindon flight from Nov 6

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/hubballi-hindon-flight-from-nov-6/articleshow/71929707.cms)

One more route from the state under the Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik (UDAAN) scheme will commence on November 6 with Star Air adding a new route by operating direct flights between Hubbali and Hindon. The flight will operate three days a week. It will depart from Hubbali at 1.05 am and arrive in Hindon at 3.45 pm. From Hindon, the flight will depart at 4.10 pm and arrive at Hubbali at 6.50 pm. Hindon is billed as Delhi’s second airport and the airfield started commercial operations only last month following flights to Phithogarh in Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, the Star Air is also expected to start flights from Kalaburagi airport either from November 18 or November 22. The Kalaburagi airport had been awarded routes to Hindon, Tirupati and Bengaluru. Recently, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has issued Aerodrome license to the Kalaburagi airport. “This license authorises the aerodrome to be used as regular place of landing and departure to all persons on equal terms and conditions for operation by airport requiring specifications of runway and associated facilities including granted exemptions equal to or less than those indicated in the Aerodrome Manual, subject to the conditions as contained in schedule-I and for a period as shown in Schedule-II hereto,” states the licence.
