
# Best of Stettler series – Stettler exudes a ‘rich community spirit’

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Weber**

Original: [The Stettler Independent](https://www.stettlerindependent.com/news/best-of-stettler-series-stettler-exudes-a-rich-community-spirit/)

For local resident Lorraine Hankins, Stettler is rich in community spirit.
“I was born and raised in Northern Alberta and came to Stettler in 1996. I immediately felt welcomed into the community as people were so friendly,” said Hankins – executive director of the Stettler Information and Referral Centre.
Relocating to Stettler indeed proved a natural fit.
“I was born and raised in a small town, so I also love the small town feel of Stettler, from the friendly businesses to the ease of getting around and using landmarks to give directions!
“I love the sense of community spirit that is here – when there is a need, the residents come together to help one another out, often going beyond to ensure the need is met.
“We also have a great volunteer base in our not-for-profits, charities, sports clubs, service organizations, etc. that commit thousands of hours to the benefit of our community.”
Hankins knows plenty about community involvement on a number of fronts. It’s fulfilling to be helping out in any number of ways, she has noted.
“It’s nice to see smiles on people’s faces when you have accomplished something with them. With some clients, it’s taken us two years to get a permanent resident card or tackle whatever barriers they’ve got. But we stick with it, and when it’s all done, it’s very fulfilling to know you have made a difference. Or to see people who are struggling financially get approved for programs and then tell you their freezer is full and they are able to save money for their children.
“To make differences in people’s lives is very fulfilling.”
Meanwhile, for Hankins, there truly is everything one could need right here.
“We have many opportunities for recreation which we continue to build upon with the facilities that we have in both the Town and the County of Stettler. I have raised my family here, made many great friends and memories and would do it all over again!
“Stettler is the ‘Heart of Alberta’ and we definitely demonstrate it in every sense of the word.”
