
# Peak Pay For People, A Positive Poll Plus For PM Boris

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Pope**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/stephenpope/2019/11/07/peak-pay-for-people-a-positive-poll-plus-for-pm-boris/)

Let’s celebrate good news when it comes. According to the Resolution Foundation average weekly earnings in the U.K. look set to surpass their August 2007 peak later in November. Just ahead of the December 12 polling day.This optimistic forecast from the Resolution Foundation builds on the data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) that said, U.K. workers' total earnings, including bonuses, advanced by an annual +3.8% in the three months to August 2019. This followed a downward revision of +3.9% in the previous period and missing market expectations of a +4.0% rise.
The think tank’s pay projection in its latest earnings forecast shows the U.K. is on course to surpass its August 2007 peak of £513 ($661), (in 2019 prices) by November or December this year so ending the 12 year pay decline.
This must be good news for the Conservative Party, led by Boris Johnson as the decline in wages has been the longest in over 200 years. Backing that up is the fact that with polling day just five weeks away this will be the first time the U.K. has gone into a general election with “peak pay” since 2005.
Looking back just over 29 months ago at the last election wage growth was measured at 1.8%, whereas inflation was rising at 2.3%. Therefore, real pay was falling.
In contrast, with wage growth at 3.8% and inflation just at 1.7%, there is real wage growth, and the Resolution Foundation figures suggest this will improve. However, the gains will be felt by some...not all.
If Labour are to find a way to exploit the figures, they will point to elements of the analysis that says there are millions of workers across the country who are still experiencing a pay downturn. Average hourly pay for workers under 40-years-old has not improved and is below pre-crisis levels by a margin of 6.5%.
Of course, there are many geographical variations as average pay across the South East, Northern Ireland and the East Midlands regions are below pre-crisis levels. Hourly pay in the South East, for example, is 4.0% down from the pre-crisis level. This equates to £24 ($31) a week for a                     full-time worker.
In the same way different industries reflect different rates of pay and growth of pay. Wages in accommodation, food and retail service, are benefitting from record levels of pay pushed higher by increases in the minimum wage.
On the other side of the coin, average pay in the public sector, and in private sector professional jobs such as IT, remain below their pre-crisis levels.
The news is a reason to be optimistic, however, it does imply there will an instant rebound in living standards as the echo of the pay squeeze still reverberates.
Projections show that the U.K. been able to avoid the crisis and if pre-crisis wage growth of +2.0% had persisted over the past 12 years average pay would be 27% higher than it is. On average that would represent a gain of £138 ($178) per week.
An area that needs to be worked on, but one that is showing improvement is the number of jobs that pay below the real living wage. The Living Wage Foundation reported tat just 19% of U.K. jobs were guilty of this, down from 22% last year. KPMG suggest this is the best reding since 2012.
This is more good news for Boris Johnson as the efforts by the government in this area are starting to work and what is perhaps most pleasing is that all U.K. regions are feeling the improvement.
The analysis further reveals that despite a backward trend last year, the latest figures are the lowest for seven years. The number of jobs paid less than the Real Living Wage now stands at an estimated 5.19 million, down from a peak of 5.75 million in 2018.
Of course, there is more to do, there always is. However, the data released today will deny Labour the ability to claim that only they are the champions of the low paid.
