
# Real Madrid Denied Top Spot In LaLiga

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:01:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/laliga-report-real-madrid-v-real-betis-02-november-2019/666596)


        LaLiga
      
Result: Real Madrid 0-0 Real Betis
Date: 02 November 2019
Venue: Santiago Bernabeu
Real Madrid failed to take advantage of FC Barcelona's slip up after dropping points at home to Real Betis on Saturday evening.
Los Blancos showed face with two changes from the 5-0 thrashing of Leganes, as Ferland Mendy slotted in for Marcelo at full-back and Luka Modric replaced Federico Valverde in the middle.
The home side had the ball in the net on eight minutes through Eden Hazard following a pass from Karim Benzema, but the Belgian was ruled offside after a review from the Video Assistant Referee.
Both sides received decent openings soon thereafter, but neither Toni Kroos nor Nabil Fekir profited as the match remained in the balance.
Los Blancos looked promising for the opener two minutes to the break when Benzema unleashed a half-volley following a pass from Modric but Joel Robles thwarted the strike.
The two sides were unchanged at the restart, though the balance of play continued swinging to either end following the break.
Madrid missed the best chance of the game on 64 minutes when Mendy flashed wide of the near post corner following a defence splitting pass from Kroos.
Vinicius Junior entered the field a minute later with compatriot Rodrygo set aside, as Zinedine Zidane desperately probed for the breakthrough.
Betis saw little possession in the final minutes, but restricted Los Blancos to clear-cut openings with a number of bodies behind the ball whilst locking all open spaces around the defence.
Real leaned towards victory in the first minute of added time when Vincius fired in from the far post following a cross from the left, but Robles smothered the Brazilian from close-range.
Honours even was how matters panned out in the Spanish capital, as Real fail to capitalise on leaders Barcelona’s defeat earlier in the day and remain second in LaLiga.
