
# Redmi Note 8T To Support 18W Fast Charging: Confirmed

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:30:52+00:00**

Author: **Argam Artashyan**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/02/redmi-note-8t-to-support-18w-fast-charging/)

Redmi Note 8T To Support 18W Fast Charging4.4 (88.89%) 9 votes
The entry-level smartphones have changed their face. Now they look like the flagship models and sport quite decent specs list. Also, when talking about the low-end and mid-range smartphones, we just can’t ignore the Redmi series. It’s been considered to be the leader in the niche. And though a few other brands are making a tough competition to it, this company is still considered to be a synonym to the cost-effectiveness. A new model from this brand will be uncovered soon. If you guess, we are talking about the Redmi Note 8T. Recently, it has passed Taiwan’s NCC certification. This also means we can get acquainted with some configuration information.
Previously, we knew the Redmi Note 8T will sport a 6.3-inch screen with a resolution of 2340×1080 pixels. Under the hood, our protagonist will carry the Qualcomm Snapdragon 665 processor. The latter should be paired with 4GB and 6GB memory options. At the same time, the certification document reveals it will come with 64GB or 128GB storage space.
As for photography, the Redmi Note 8T is going to feature a quad-camera. The latter will consist of a 48MP + 8MP + 2MP + 2MP sensors combination. At the same time, the front-facing camera will have a 13MP resolution.
Finally, this smartphone will sport a 4000mAh battery. And it turns out the latter will support 18W fast charge. This was also confirmed by the leaked Taiwan NCC certification list. It shows the new Redmi Note 8T will support 18W fast charging with a 5V / 3A, 9V / 2A, 12V / 1.5A output power as well as come with an NFC function.
