
# Understanding Infosys Whistleblower Impacts On Customers, Shareholders And Employees

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Peter Bendor-Samuel**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/peterbendorsamuel/2019/11/01/understanding-infosys-whistleblower-impacts-on-customers-shareholders-and-employees/)

The Infosys board of directors recently received a whistleblower’s letter making a set of claims. The substantive claim is that Infosys may be inappropriately recognizing revenue in some of its large deals. The whistleblower’s accusation is causing a fair amount of excitement in the press. I want to put this situation in context and explain the implications for Infosys’ customers, employees, and shareholders.
The Situation. When a whistleblower goes to a firm’s board and causes the SEC and other regulatory entities to investigate claims, it is a serious issue.
Infosys is responding to this situation seriously, in a principled and transparent way. The CEO and CFO recused themselves. The firm appropriately brought in outside counsel to investigate the accounting claim.
The Context. Large deals are highly complicated; as such, reasonable people and even accountants may differ on accounting treatments for these deals. All service providers face this issue, and they differ in how to approach it. Companies that enter large deals have a complicated task in appropriately recognizing cost and revenue. Large deals are complicated because they have many different factors operating at the same time. Infosys has been successful in signing large deals over the last few years and, therefore, faces the issue of how to appropriately account for them.
Typically, large deals involve investments that the service provider makes to drive a customer’s transformation. Those investments can be in the form of time, intellectual property or other assets that are required to drive transformation. A complication arises because of how a service provider writes down that investment over multiple periods. For instance, a provider can spread that investment over the life of the contract, or it can recognize the investment immediately or it can recognize it as the revenues that the investment enables. There are many different – and valid – choices for the accounting treatment.
Adding to the Infosys situation is the fact that the firm has relatively new leadership. When a company has a new leadership team, it’s not unusual or surprising that the leaders may change the accounting approach to fit their philosophy as to how they want to write down those investments.
The Nature Of The Whistleblower’s Claims. We don’t yet know the validity or seriousness of the whistleblower’s claim. It could be that Infosys is inappropriately using accounting treatments, but it’s just as likely that there is just a disagreement as to the accounting treatments of the firm’s large deals. It’s not surprising that there is internal consternation that might lead to the whistleblower’s claim, as hot debates are typical when companies wrestle through the appropriate accounting mechanism for large deals.
Hence, it’s not surprising that the whistleblower might have a different interpretation of the appropriate accounting procedure. The only surprising aspect of this situation is that the whistleblower went beyond notifying the appropriate responsible parties and alerted the press and regulatory entities. That is unfortunate and discouraging, and it clearly indicates that this individual has an axe to grind beyond accounting procedures.
We know there is an axe to grind because the whistleblower has been reporting other things, such as personal conversations, disparaging remarks and other issues, which indicate that the person (or people) bringing this forward has a motive beyond the accounting issues.
What does this whistleblower situation mean to consequences for Infosys stakeholders? Here’s my analysis.
Impact to Customers. We at Everest Group investigated the impact to Infosys customers and have no sense that existing customers are overly concerned about this situation. We see little to no short-run impact to customers. Existing customers have a long history of good service from Infosys. Whatever the results of this inquiry, Infosys’ service won’t change. I don’t see any material change in the posture that customers have toward Infosys in existing accounts, nor do I anticipate change would happen because of any potential outcome of this investigation.
If your company is an Infosys customer, basically this whistleblower situation means very little to you. You have had good service from Infosys and will continue to get good service. Under any conceivable scenario, Infosys will be a well-financed, strong firm with a strong set of offerings and will be a strong partner for digital transformation.
Impact to Shareholders. Regarding Infosys shareholders, I do not believe the long-term position of Infosys in the marketplace will change. Under any circumstances, it will remain a well-positioned, competitive firm driving strong margins and good growth.
If you’re an Infosys investor, this whistleblower situation will not impair or change the fundamental position of Infosys and its competitive strength. The firm likely will continue in its current trajectory.
Impact to Infosys Employees. As an Infosys employee, you should be both pleased and satisfied with the transparent and ethical approach Infosys is taking to this whistleblower situation. However, you should be less pleased that one of your number chose to address these issues through the press.
Adjustments To Accounting Procedures. Although this situation already had an impact on investors and the stock price, I believe that is likely overblown. I also believe that, even if Infosys needs to adjust its accounting procedures, it won’t change the firm’s fundamental strategic positioning, capabilities or its prospects for growth and ongoing strong profits.
It’s important to be very cautious about the whistleblower claims. My primary advice is to take a wait-and-see attitude. In the fullness of time, the external investigation will find out whether Infosys applied the appropriate accounting treatment.
It would be far from surprising if this turns out to be just a legitimate difference of opinion on how Infosys should prosecute the accounting treatment. Having said that, the external investigation may find that there has been an inappropriate accounting treatment. In that case, it could cause some sort of restatement of earnings and growth, but such a restatement would not be catastrophic.
Although a restatement would be a “black eye” for Infosys, it would not impact the quality in how Infosys serves its customers. And a restatement is unlikely to materially impair Infosys’ competitive position in the marketplace. Infosys has a strong track record of delivering exceptional value to its customers as well as strong value to the firm’s shareholders. It has industry-leading margins and, recently, industry-leading growth.
