
# Stomach-churning photos of illegal rat-invested dump brothers ran in back garden

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:27:24+00:00**

Author: **Anna Lewis, Eryl Crump**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/stomach-churning-photos-illegal-rat-20820398)

Stomach-churning photographs show the mountains of rubbish and rat carcasses that were discovered in the garden of two brothers who set up an illegal dump.
Raymond Murray, 61, and Ian Murray, 54, were found to have 500 rats at their home as a result of their business in Kinmel Bay, Conwy, in Wales.
And a clean-up operation cost £59,000 and saw more than 123 tonnes removed from their home.
Between 400 and 500 rats were also killed using 156 rat traps - the average amount used across the county in a month.
Today, a court heard the infestation had caused a "real risk to health" to neighbours, reports Wales Online.
 
A nearby caravan park also found dead rats in its awnings and live rodents running around the children’s play area.
The play area had to be closed and disinfected, while refunds were given to customers.
During an earlier hearing, the court was told that the brothers began a waste collecting business when they lost a previous taxi business and ran into financial difficulties.
When it was found to be uneconomical to take the rubbish to a tip, the pair began sorting it out at their home and the situation grew "out of hand".
When officers visited the home in May, hundreds of bin bags of domestic waste were found in the garden, including mattresses, furniture, car parts and a caravan.
There was also evidence of rat burrows and bin bags ripped open by the rodents.
In January, both brothers were handed 10-month prison sentences suspended for two years  after pleading guilty to acting without an environment permit. 
Today it was found the brothers made £72,637 from their illegal business.
During the Proceeds of Crime Act hearing, Natural Resources Wales prosecutor Christopher Stables said the amount available for confiscation totalled £37,153 from Raymond Murray and £30,413 from his brother.
Mr Stables also asked the cost of the clean-up operation be repaid.
Judge Niclas Parry ordered the defendants to pay £67,566 within three months or serve 12 months in prison.
He also told the pair to place their house for sale within a week to cover the shortfall.
