
# Thomas Cook brand saved by Wolves owners Fosun in £11m deal - report

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:40:30+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/thomas-cook-fosun-wolverhampton-wanderers-17187984)

Wolverhampton Wanderers' parent company Fosun have bought the name of global travel group Thomas Cook for £11 million.
Fosun , who own tourism company Club Med, have bought the Thomas Cook branding along with the Casa Cook and Cook club names, report the BBC.
Thomas Cook went bust in September after 178 years of trading when it was liquidated.
Fosun was the largest shareholder in Thomas Cook, whose collapse led to the biggest peacetime repatriation of Britons abroad who had become stranded as a result of the firm going bust.
This is your round up of all things Wolves; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Wolves throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WWFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Wolves reporter Alex Dicken on Twitter, and his email address is Alex.Dicken@reachplc.com
 
Hays Travel bought the 555 Thomas Cook high-street shops for £6m and now the name has been saved after Chinese company Fosun, who own Wolves , stepped in to buy the name.
Fosun chairman Qian Jiannong, in quotes attributed to him by the BBC, said: "The acquisition of the Thomas Cook brand will enable the group to expand its tourism business building on the extensive brand awareness of Thomas Cook and the robust growth momentum of Chinese outbound tourism."
