
# Metro to be extended till Hosakote, says Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/metro-to-be-extended-till-hosakote-says-chief-minister-bs-yediyurappa/articleshow/71912135.cms)

Will there be Metro connectivity to Hosakote? Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa surely indicated so. On Monday, Yediyrappa said that his government would soon work on connecting Hosakote via Metro. At a function, he said, “There is heavy congestion on the Whitefield-Hosaktoe Road and so we will speak to the Central Government on Metro connectivity to Hosakote in the upcoming phases.” Political insiders say that the CM’s statements was more to woo voters in Hosakote which is to go for by polls on December 5 and it was represented by the expelled MLA MTB Nagaraj. However, despite the political overtures, the news of the Metro to Hosakote has brought cheer to the techie community in the city. “While announcing the Metro Phase three, the government had not mentioned about the extension of the Metro line beyond Whitefield. For long, there has been a demand from the techies to connect Whitefield to Hosakote. Now, we hope that the CM will stick to his promise by working on a new Metro project,” said T Vikram, a resident of Kadugodi. “Those who work in Whitefield say that the road connecting Whitefield to Hosakote has become a tech hub with many companies coming up here and it also houses a number of residential localities/apartments. Many prefer to stay near that road so that they can reach Whitefield easily as traffic on that road is comparatively lesser. A Metro on this route will only help these techies. As the Phase three had completely neglected this important stretch, they hope that the new Metro project will be a boost to the area,” added Anantha Krishna, a resident of Hosakote, who travels to Whitefield daily. Meanwhile, Metro officials said that they didn’t want to comment on the CM’s statement as the Phase three Metro details were still in the discussion stage. Technical glitch in Green lineBMRCL had to reset its automatic train protection system on Monday morning after the loco pilot applied emergency brakes. The train on the green line departed Mahakavi Kumvempu road station at 10.15 am. However, as it was approaching Srirampura station, the loco pilot had to apply emergency brake. Metro officials said that the loco pilot was forced to brake due to power fluctuation. Then the train was moved to Srirampura station under ‘run on sight’ mode at slow speed (25 kmph). Later, the train departed Srirampura at 10.22 am.
