
# F1 championship standings: Hamilton seals it, battle for 3rd and 6th intensify!

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:57:00+00:00**

Author: **Nicolás Quarles van Ufford**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49407/f1-championship-standings-hamilton-seals-it-battle-for-3rd-and-6th-intensify-.html)


        With two more races to go, we now have an official champion already in both championships in Lewis Hamilton and Mercedes, but the battle for third and sixth place in the championship intensifies!
      
Pole sitter Valtteri Bottas pretty much drove a faultless race, getting away well and making no mistakes. Although teammate Hamilton's one-stop strategy looked like the preferred strategy as he was in first place for the bulk of the race, Bottas finally overtook the Brit for the race lead with a few laps to go.
They finished first and second with Max Verstappen closely following in third place, with the Dutchman close to picking off Hamilton for P2 if not for a late yellow flag caused by the stranded Kevin Magnussen.
Sebastian Vettel's race was over before it really started, with the German suffering from severe understeer as he dropped five places from second to seventh in the first two laps. 
Things got even worse for the 32-year-old as his suspension snapped at the right rear after nine laps, ending his race. The other Ferrari of Charles Leclerc finished fourth. Vettel's DNF meant Verstappen has now taken fourth from him in the standings as he is 14 points behind Leclerc, with Hamilton and Bottas nailed on for first and second in the championship already.
A very late lunge from Daniil Kvyat on Sergio Perez for P10 was penalised, with Kvyat trying a move on the final lap in consecutive races now as his penalty took him down to P12. The two McLaren cars were sandwiched between the Renaults of Daniel Ricciardo and Nico Hulkenberg in P6 and P9 respectively, with Lando Norris beating Carlos Sainz to P7.

        * 2019 World Champion
      
