
# Cole Hamels Joins Stephen Strasburg, Gerrit Cole Among Top Pitchers On Baseball’s Free Agent Market

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Barry M. Bloom**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/barrymbloom/2019/11/06/cole-hamels-joins-stephen-strasburg-gerrit-cole-among-top-pitchers-on-baseballs-free-agent-market/)

Cole Hamels should be the perfect free-agent pitcher, on the market this year without even the threat of a qualifying offer and all that entails.He’s left-handed, never had a serious elbow or shoulder injury, and is a proven winner named MVP in 2008 of both the National League Championship Series and World Series when the Philadelphia Phillies won only their second championship.
But that’s all ancient history. Hamels will be 36 on Dec. 27, and he’s the class of player in recent years analytics has iced out. Most of the last two seasons he’s pitched for the Chicago Cubs.
“The way we’re thinking about it is Hamels has a lot left in the tank,” John Boggs, his agent, told Boomskie on Baseball when reached by phone this week in San Diego. “He and Madison Bumgarner line up basically the same. But Bumgarner has a qualifying offer. We don’t have a qualifying offer.” 
It’s a market rich with front-line pitching and Hamels, despite 167 victories, a 3.42 ERA and an average of 30 starts a season in his 14 years, is down the list.
That market received a real jolt this past weekend when Stephen Strasburg opted out of the last four years of his deal with the World Series-winning Washington Nationals worth $100 million.
Add Strasburg to Gerrit Cole, an American League Cy Young Award candidate formally of the World Series-losing Houston Astros, and Bumgarner with his rich history of World Series successes as a member of the San Francisco Giants, and the pool is very, very deep.
It’ll be a lot to consider as the 30 general managers and their support staffs gather for meetings in the Phoenix area for three days next week, beginning Monday.
But the three pitchers mentioned above have what Hamels doesn’t, the attachment of the $17.8 million qualifying offer, which reserves draft pick compensation for the originating team at a relatively modest level.
In the recent past, that’s been a good excuse for some teams to shun veteran pitchers.
“We think we’re in a good spot, but you never know if you’re in a good spot in the market these days,” Boggs said. “You don’t know how teams are trending and what they’re doing. The question is do you come out of the box early and take the first offer or do you wait and see how the market develops?”
In Hamels’ case, he best strike as soon as there’s a decent offer even if it’s for the short-term. Boggs should have learned that lesson last offseason when Dallas Keuchel and Craig Kimbrel were frozen out of the market by draft-pick compensation until after this past June’s amateur draft.
Keuchel, only recently one of the top left-handed starters in the AL for the Astros, signed a $13 million, one year contract with the Atlanta Braves on June 7. Keuchel is back out in the market again, and this time, like Hamels is an unencumbered free agent.
Kimbrel, arguably the best right-handed closer in the game with 42 saves for the then defending World Series-champion Boston Red Sox in 2018, had to wait until June 6 to sign a three-year, $43 million deal with the Cubs with a fourth year club option of $16 million and a $1 million buyout.
Sans spring training and the first half of the season, neither pitcher reached their previous levels of proficiency.
This year, the market really opened Monday when qualifying offers were made to 10 players, six of them pitchers.
Aside from Strasburg, Cole and Bumgarner, the other pitchers are starters Jake Odorizzi of the Minnesota Twins and Zack Wheeler of the New York Mets, plus closer Will Smith of the Giants.
Since the system was implemented in 2012, 90 players have been given the qualifying offer and just 10 have accepted, most recently Hyun-Jin Ryu. The 32-year-old Korean left-hander went back to the Los Angeles Dodgers last offseason and took full advantage of the opportunity with a career season: 14-5 and a Major League-leading 2.32 ERA in 29 starts. He was fully healthy after years of left shoulder problems.
Ryu's back out in the market right now unencumbered and set to receive a big pay day. 
And that’s the interesting twist in the qualifying offer rule. It can’t be used to leverage the same player again no matter where he winds up playing.
Thus, considering the obvious holes now in the free agent system, four of the six pitchers on this list ought to think long and hard about taking the offer from their existing teams.
Cole and Strasburg shouldn’t have to worry about it. They are elite starting pitchers and the market will open wide just for them. 
As their agent Scott Boras told this senior contributor last month:
“Great players are always coveted and those are great players,” Boras said. “When has the market not been there for good players? Every player I’ve done, I’ve gotten big contracts for these guys.”
But Bumgarner ($12 million), Odorizzi ($9.5 million), Wheeler ($5.975 million) and Smith ($4.225 million) will receive sizeable raises just by accepting the $17.8 million qualifying offer for next season. They then would all be back out in the market after the 2020 season without draft-pick conversation hanging over their collective heads.
With the threat of being left unsigned until after the June draft as a possible alternative, it’s something to seriously ponder. All 10 players have to make that decision during the midst of a 10-day period, which will close during the general managers’ meetings next week.
Meanwhile, Boggs will continue to comb the free agent market, for Hamels and a pair of other unencumbered pitching clients: Reliever Yoshihisa Hirano late of the Arizona Diamondbacks, and veteran swing man Trevor Cahill, who had a mediocre season starting and relieving for the Los Angeles Angels.
Boggs seems to know the score.
“You can’t wait too long to see how the market develops,” Boggs said. “You wait too long and you basically have nothing to show for it. I proved that last year with Cahill. He wanted a two-year offer, and when the Angels came in hot we took an inventory of it and all we really had was one-year offers.”
It was the highest offer so they took it.
Cahill signed for $9 million with the Angels, who evidently aren’t going down that road again. Hamels just finished a six-year deal worth $144 million that averaged $24 million a season, and at his age, is not likely to see that kind of money again, either.
It will be interesting to see how this all pans out.
