
# Olivia Wilde: blunting the scissors of the in-flight movie censors

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:30:03+00:00**

Author: **Rebecca Nicholson**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/02/olivia-wilde-blunting-the-scissors-of-in-flight-move-censors)


        The Booksmart director is rightly up in arms about her film being edited by an airline
      
A few years ago, in an all-too-brief interlude between conquering a severe fear of flying and the advent of buzzkill flight shame, I settled into a transatlantic journey, stuffed with cheesy pasta, flanked by an adorable number of miniature wine bottles, and prepared to watch the ultimate comfort film, Bridesmaids.
In my happy carby stupor, I had forgotten that it opens with Kristen Wiig jiggling around on top of Jon Hamm for far longer than the woman next to me felt comfortable with. I saw her glance over, and glance back, then repeat the manoeuvre, her disapproval silent but deadly. I looked down at my abandoned bread roll, hoping to convey the message that I was only there for Maya Rudolph’s food poisoning in a wedding dress. Somehow, to acknowledge it by turning it off would have been worse, so I left them to bounce on, unwatched, yet judged.
Olivia Wilde directed Booksmart, 2019’s most joyous and life-affirming film, a righteous celebration of the brightness of teenage girls. Wilde had the displeasure of watching her own movie on a flight recently and I knew it could not be the same liberated airline that had provided my Bridesmaids incident. Fans had been in touch to tell her about strange and savage cuts that had been made to some of its most crucial scenes and, on watching it herself, Wilde took to Twitter to list them. They are extravagantly prudish, homophobic and sexist, which is particularly egregious given that one of the main strengths of the film is to rally against such idiocy with class and wit.
The word “vagina” is muted or cut, as is the word “genitals”, while “fuck” is left to fly free. “Most disappointingly, they cut most of Amy and Hope’s love scene in the bathroom, which involves zero nudity, but does involve an essential plot point for a lead character. “Wtfffff,” Wilde wrote.
It is wearying beyond belief to once again receive the familiar and harmful message that a same-sex storyline is disgusting, or porny, or NSFW, to be chopped out and hidden away. The implication that it is shameful is so terribly damaging. Wilde has urged airlines not to work with the third-party company responsible for the edits, which has enormous power in deciding what might be “appropriate”. Instead of coming for sweet, funny romance, it would have been far more useful for them to step in and tell me not to watch Avatar on a screen the size of a paperback.
Judd Apatow is one of a number of creative types expressing disapproval at a feature that Netflix appears to have rolled out as a test to some Android users, which would allow them to adjust the playback speed of a show or series. “We give you nice things. Leave them as they were intended to be seen,” wrote The 40-Year-Old Virgin director. Breaking Bad star Aaron Paul also spoke out against the idea, tweeting that it “would mean they are completely taking control of everyone else’s art and destroying it. Netflix is far better than that.”
The thought of being able to play something faster fills me with horror and not entirely because of the imposition on a film-maker’s artistic vision. It suggests streaming services are trying to expand our tired, bloated, binge-bent minds, so we can accommodate even more entertainment than we ever thought possible. I already feel regular prickles of panic about being behind on absolutely everything and there are only so many must-see series that one can actually see. Allowing them to artificially alter the notion of time so we can stuff ourselves with ever more shows will only encourage them to make even more shows and then our brains will explode.
The Hove and Portslade MP, Peter Kyle, has written about his experience of having acute dyslexia, especially when it comes to communicating with people online, which, naturally, largely relies on the written word.
“Twitter can be a pretty unforgiving place for people with unseen challenges,” he said, at the beginning of a long and honest thread explaining that when he got the spelling of “border” and “boarder” mixed up recently, he had been called “thick” and “stupid” and told to resign. He wrote about why he found some words trickier than others, discussed some of his techniques for dealing with that and criticised the “spelling police” who call him out and call him names.
On the internet, spelling mistakes are often the butt of the joke. I got sent a Facebook post recently that was advertising homemade Christmas cacks. Never talk about hip-hop and miss the second “p” out of rapper; if you’re going to declare that you love men’s fragrances, check your cologne is not your colon. But I once heard someone say that when we laugh at people’s spelling mistakes on the internet, we know that we are laughing at something else, and I know, too, that it can be true: it is a cheap laugh, usually at something far more than the mistake itself.
Like many people of his age, Kyle recalls being put in “remedial” class; thankfully, schools are now much better at recognising dyslexia than they were when he MP was growing up. His call for more understanding on Twitter might be like putting your head into a bear’s mouth and asking it not to bite you but even so, it is important to be reminded that an error is not always a simple mistake and that spelling is not an indication of a person’s intellect.
• Rebecca Nicholson is an Observer columnist
