
# Huawei Mate 30 RS Porsche Design will go on sale in China from Nov. 10

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:08:33+00:00**

Author: **Marco Lancaster**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/huawei-mate-30-rs-porsche-design-will-go-on-sale-in-china-from-nov-10/)

Huawei Mate 30 RS Porsche Design will go on sale in China from November 105 (100%) 1 vote
Back in September, Huawei took the wraps off its 2019’s Mate series. Along with the Huawei Mate 30 and 30 Pro, the company also unveiled a new luxurious Porsche Design variant under the Huawei Mate 30 RS Porsche Design moniker. The device is quite different in relation to the standard Mate 30 models bearing slightly different specs and an appealing design.
While the Mate 30 and 30 Pro are already available in China, the Porsche Design variant is still unavailable, but that will change soon. According to a report, the luxurious smartphone will go on sale in China on November 10.  That said, the Porsche Design will retail for CNY12,999 ($1,860/€1,670) and is coming in two colors – Black and Red.
We can refresh your memory when it comes to the internals. The Mate 30 RS features a 6.53″ OLED screen with 2440×1176 pixels of resolution. There’s a notch at the top serving as a house for the 3D ToF sensor and the 32MP selfie snapper. Besides, the display also has a fingerprint scanner underneath. Moving around to the back, the first thing we spot is the leather finish covering the handset. There’s a quad-camera setup comprising of a 40MP main + 40MP ultrawide + 8MP telephoto + and 3D ToF sensors.
The Huawei Mate 30 RS is powered by a Kirin 990 SoC paired with 12GB RAM and 512GB storage. Just like the original Mate 30 smartphones, the handset comes with Android 10-based EMUI 10 out of the box. However, it also lacks Google Services. But that’s not a big problem for the Chinese audience. The handset draws power from a generous 4,500mAh battery with 40W wired and 27W wireless fast charging.
The Mate 30 and 30 Pro are a great success in India, now we should wait and see how the RS variant will perform in Huawei’s domestic market.
