
# TikTok has a credibility problem with Congress

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Casey Newton**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/interface/2019/11/6/20950007/tiktok-congress-hearing-josh-hawley-censorship-china)

On Monday we talked about some of the pressures stacking up on TikTok: increasing skepticism from Congress about its Chinese parent company ByteDance; a raft of new competitors slurping up venture capital and building their own short-form video apps powered by machine learning; and the public-perception risk that comes from keeping executives behind the scenes and responding to questions primarily via blog post.
Well, today there was a new blog post.
In it, Vanessa Pappas, TikTok’s general manager for the United States, laid out her case that the management team behind the app is and will remain independent of demands from the Chinese government. The company is building out a US-based leadership team, a US-based content moderation team; and localized community guidelines. It pledged to work with US regulators. And it super-pinkie-promises that nothing untoward will ever happen to Americans’ data. Pappas writes:
It all sounds good — just what you would want a company in TikTok’s position to say. The policies it describes are not meaningfully different from any US-based social network, which also have American leadership and localize their community guidelines wherever they operate.
But one of TikTok’s core challenges is that Americans may simply not believe them. Particularly if they remember an incident from the spring of 2018. Jiayang Fan wrote about it in the New Yorker:
After the incident, ByteDance CEO Zhang Zhemin promised to “increase its team of censors from six thousand to ten thousand, create a blacklist of banned users, and develop better technology to monitor and screen content.” Self-censorship is now a core part of ByteDance — the thing that allows it to keep functioning. Is it paranoid to assume that censorship will creep into TikTok as well?
Maybe not, according to an excellent new report from Drew Harwell and Tony Romm in the Washington Post. The reporters talked with six former TikTok employees who raised questions about the boundaries between US and Chinese leadership:
And what of the fact that data is stored in the United States and Singapore and not China? Alex Stamos, former chief security officer at Facebook, tells Harwell and Romm:
All this came up at today’s Senate hearing about China and tech, in which TikTok (and Apple) declined to participate. (TikTok said it did not have enough time to prepare.) Sen. Josh Hawley (R-MO) highlighted the Post’s reporting and asked for more answers:
The hearing didn’t amount to much — it was an hour long and consisted largely of senators lecturing empty chairs. But today was just the first round of a longer fight to come. And when the real battles arrive, TikTok will have to muster more than a blog post.

        Today in news that could affect public perception of the big tech platforms.
      
Trending up: Twitter suspended accounts linked to Hezbollah (an Iran-backed militant group) and Hamas (a Palestinian military group). The move came after US lawmakers criticized the company for allowing both groups to remain active even after the State Department labeled them as terrorist organizations.
Trending down: Another year, another global decline in internet freedom.
Trending down: Twitter fueled attacks on Muslim candidates in 2018, a significant new study shows. Bots and trolls amplified hateful content on the platform, which was most frequently directed at Muslim women. It created a sense that the candidates faced more criticism than they actually did.
⭐ Social media has become a conduit for surveillance and electoral manipulation, according to the 2019 Freedom on the Net report. The study looked at 65 countries around the world and found an overall decline in internet freedom, including in the United States. China remains the world’s worst abuser of internet freedom for the fourth consecutive year.
Russia’s “sovereign internet” law just went into effect. It allows Moscow to tighten control over the country’s internet by routing web traffic through state-controlled infrastructure and creating a national system of domain names. The Kremlin says it’s a security measure. And to the extent a surveillance state is as security measure, it is! (Elizabeth Schulze / CNBC)
Activists inside Google are calling on management to break ties with oil and gas companies. More than 1,100 workers asked Google to commit to cutting carbon emissions entirely and drop contracts that “enable or accelerate the extraction of fossil fuels.” (Mark Bergen / Bloomberg)
Civil rights leaders are profoundly worried about Facebook’s policy to allow politicians to lie in ads. They met with executives this week to discuss their concerns. (Pema Levy / Mother Jones)
Facebook isn’t always giving people the real reason their pages were shut down, if the shutdown is linked to what the company calls “coordinated inauthentic behavior.” At times, the company said it was because of privacy concerns, and users only found out the real reason when Facebook released its report. (Jane Lytvynenko and Elamin Abdelmahmoud / BuzzFeed)
How a low-level Ukrainian diplomat propelled himself to Trump’s inner circle by claiming he had knowledge of Democratic collusion with Ukraine in the 2016 election. (He did not.) (Ryan Broderick / BuzzFeed)
A group of YouTube creators is protesting the Federal Trade Commission’s plan to regulate kids’ videos on the platform, saying the new rules will hurt them financially. YouTube agreed not to run personalized ads on kids’ content as part of an FTC settlement in September. (Mark Bergen, Lucas Shaw and Ben Brody / Bloomberg)
Here’s where the Democratic presidential candidates stand on breaking up Big Tech (in slideshow form). (Reuters)
⭐ Little-known companies are amassing highly personal data about you, including food orders and messages, and selling it to companies like Airbnb and Yelp. The goal is to determine how trustworthy you are. Kashmir Hill at The New York Times describes what happened when she got a copy of her report:
Domestic workers are being illegally bought and sold on Instagram, according to an undercover investigation from the BBC. The platform allows posts to be promoted via algorithm-boosted hashtags, and sales then take place in private messages. (Owen Pinnell and Jess Kelly / BBC)
Reviews of Facebook’s Portal TV are out. Katie Notopoulos, for one, loves hers. But she agrees with other reviewers who say that privacy concerns about allowing a Facebook device into the home make it a nonstarter for most people. (BuzzFeed)
Adobe, Twitter, and The New York Times announced a new system for adding attribution to photos and other content. A tool will record who created a piece of content and whether it’s been modified by someone else, then let other people and platforms check that data. (Adi Robertson / The Verge)
Alexa, Google Home and Siri can all be hacked from hundreds of feet away by shining laser pointers or flashlights at the devices’ microphones, say researchers in Japan and at the University of Michigan. In once case, they were able to open a garage door by shining a laser beam at a voice assistant that was connected to it. (Nicole Perlroth / The New York Times)
Google is buying Fitbit for health-care data, not hardware, experts say. The wearable device collects valuable information on hours of sleep, heart rate and steps taken. (Greg Bensinger / The Washington Post)
Netflix and Seth Meyers teamed up to create a button that lets people skip Trump jokes. The comedian’s new stand-up special, Lobby Baby, debuts on the platform today. (Julia Alexander / The Verge)
8chan, the anonymous forum that was forced offline due to links to the El Paso shooting, is back after rebranding as 8kun. The message board where the shooter published his manifesto is no longer part of the site. (Jon Porter / The Verge)
Pregnant YouTubers are filming their water breaking — and the videos are getting really popular. OK! (Harron Walker / Vice)
More schools are investing in surveillance systems to keep kids safe. But some, like those produced by surveillance company Gaggle, can also be used to monitor students emails, chats, and photos. (Caroline Haskins / BuzzFeed)
Jack Dorsey has a thought about the all-caps styling of Facebook’s new corporate wordmark.
