
# Hot Topic: It’s Official: Microsoft Edge is Coming to Linux

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:21:04+00:00**

Author: **By Joey Sneddon**

Original: [OMG! Ubuntu!](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2019/11/its-official-microsoft-edge-is-coming-to-linux)


        It’s official: Microsoft Edge is coming to Linux!
      
News that a Linux port of the Chromium-based Edge browser is on the way isn’t too much of surprise given that Microsoft developers have teased the possibility several times before.
They’ve previously gone on record as saying that Edge for Linux is “something we’d like to do” and something that would happen “eventually”. They even launched a survey to scope out feedback on the idea from existing Linux users.
But now Edge for Linux is official.
Announcing the news during its “State of the Browser” session (around the 8min 24 mark) at the Ignite 2019 conference in Orlando, USA, Microsoft say that Edge for Linux will be out next year.
Precisely when? Well, that’s not known yet. Personally I don’t expect the build to arrive alongside Edge for macOS and Windows 10, both of which go stable on January 15th, 2020.
Microsoft themselves simply say that Edge for Linux is “coming at a later time”.
When Microsoft announced it was rebuilding its Edge browser on top of Chromium the likelihood of a native Linux port increased substantially due to the cross-platform nature of the codebase.
After all, a crop of Chromium based web browsers already support Linux, including Google Chrome, Vivaldi, Opera, Yandex (Russia) and SRWare Iron.
But Microsoft isn’t just taking Chromium and building out; it’s also getting involved. Microsoft Edge is an active and contributing member to the Chromium open source project (ergo work done for Edge can, in turn, benefit other browsers, including ones you might want to use).
We’ll be keeping our eyes fixed on the Edge Canary and Dev channels for any sign of a Linux build and, naturally, give you a heads the moment it’s available for testing.

        But the big question is: will you use it?
      
