
# Couple think they've rescued missing pet - turns out they stole stranger's cat

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:47:54+00:00**

Author: **Luke Matthews, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/luke-matthews/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/weird-news/couple-think-theyve-rescued-missing-20801673)

A well-meaning couple who sprang into action to help find their friend's missing cat returned home a little red faced after an embarrassing case of mistaken identity.
Owner Sophie Johnson posted on Facebook urging people in Prestonpans, Scotland, to keep an eye out for her missing mog Lentil, along with a lovely picture of her adorable 'wee scone'.
After word got back to Sophie that little Lentil had been spotted at a new housing development looking 'really muddy', she appealed for her friends to head over and have a look as she was unable to get there herself.
Enter Lauren Faulkner and Charlie Allan.
 
The couple went out to track down the feline and it didn't take long for them to message Sophie with the news she was desperate to hear.
"MATE WE'VE F***ING GOT HIM" - alongside a picture of what they thought to be Lentil, sitting contently in the passenger seat of the car, ready to be reunited with his owner.
A relieved Sophie replied to say she was 'shaking' and 'couldn't believe it'.
Unfortunately for everyone involved, the cat Lauren and Charlie had buckled up in their car wasn't Lentil at all.
Before they could drive away and place the animal into the arms of a human it had never laid eyes on before, a neighbour ran out to tell the couple the cat had been living at the development for a year.
 
Charlie broke the bad news to Sophie to say they were 'embarrassed' having 'stole the wrong cat' and would continue the search.
But the bizarre story doesn't end there.
A post then appeared on a local Facebook group, saying: "Someone just tried to steal our Railey ragdoll cat. Luckily to our wonderful neighbours it was prevented.
"We are aware of a missing cat who looks a little like ours and we are sorry for the owner's loss but turning up to someone's home and trying to steal an animal is an appalling and cowardly act."
When the post got back to Lauren, she wrote on Twitter : "A mean we didny run about in f***ing balaclavas nor get wrestled to ground whilst trying to abduct the cat, some **** went thats no the right cat btw and I let it oot n we aw laughed.
"Everyone lock your cats up we are clearly very dangerous."
After all that drama, Lentil is still missing so please keep a look out for him if you're in Prestonpans.
