
# Conor McGregor's next opponent agreed with the UFC ahead of January 18 fight

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:34:38+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/conor-mcgregors-next-opponent-agreed-20816028)

Conor McGregor’s comeback fight opponent has been agreed with the UFC, according to the Irishman’s manager Audie Attar.
‘The Notorious’ recently announced he will return to the Octagon on January 18 is Las Vegas but has so far failed to reveal who he would be facing.
Attar says details of the match-up are close to being confirmed, however.
"We had very productive talks this weekend with the UFC," he told ESPN.
"I know Conor has announced a date, and in terms of discussions we have agreed on that date and we have agreed on that opponent.
"We're not going to reveal anything tonight but a deal is imminent, I don't see anything getting in the way barring some unforeseen circumstances.
"Both parties want to get it done, it's in the best interests of everyone involved and more importantly the fans are really excited to see him back."
Donald Cerrone is UFC bigwig Dana White’s preferred opponent for McGregor, in what will be his first bout since losing to Khabib Nurmagomedov last year.
Attar believes the fight makes sense but refused to confirm if ‘Cowboy’ is the unnamed opponent.
He said: "I like the Cerrone matchup, I like how he's building it himself and he's a fan favourite, he's a guy that comes to fight, he throws down and he deserves a fight like that.
"From a business standpoint, lets see how this plays out."
McGregor outlined his plan for the season at last month’s press conference in Russia.
After his comeback fight, the 31-year-old fancies a crack at Jorge Masvidal after his win against Nate Diaz at UFC 244, before rounding off 2020 with a rematch against Nurmagomedov.
And Attar said: "Conor is really committed to this 'season' where he will fight three times this year, he really wants to get back into the groove of things.
"He wants to get back to what he really loves aside from the businesses that we love and we should have an announcement in the coming weeks."
