
# Varcoe: Gloomy fall gets worse for oilpatch as Pengrowth scooped up for a bargain

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:08:38+00:00**

Author: **Chris Varcoe, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/columnists/varcoe-theres-a-lot-of-fear-more-choppy-waters-face-oilpatch)

Layoffs, a major company moving its headquarters south and a low price tag to acquire an established petroleum producer — these are not healthy signs for Canada’s oil and gas sector as it endures a bumpy ride throughout the fall.
“There is a lot of fear in this town still and it’s accelerating,” Pengrowth Energy Corp. CEO Pete Sametz said in an interview.
“We’re not the only ones in this boat…There’s a bunch of them out on the ocean, bobbing around still.”
On Friday, Pengrowth agreed to be purchased by Cona Resources Ltd. for five cents a share, 75 per cent below the stock’s closing price the day before. The total acquisition cost, including the repayment of debt, is pegged at $740 million.
The news came a day after Encana Corp., once the largest public company by market capitalization in Canada, announced it will shift its corporate headquarters out of Calgary to the United States.
And two weeks ago, Husky Energy laid off hundreds of employees, coming a day after the federal election.
Of course, each company in the sector has its own unique set of circumstances.
Husky talked about reducing its workforce to “better align the organization and workforce with our capital plan and strategy,” while Encana said moving its corporate domicile southward will let it access more pools of capital in the United States.
For Pengrowth, it’s been grappling with too much debt at a time when there is limited ability to raise capital.
“When the debt comes due, you pay for it. That’s really what the issue has been for a while now,” said Sametz.
Pengrowth Energy Trust was initially established in 1988. By the time founder Jim Kinnear retired as CEO in 2009, it had more than 600 employees and a market capitalization of $2.4 billion.
The energy trust converted to a corporation in 2011 and it struggled after the sharp downturn in oil prices. Pengrowth’s share price, which hovered around $7.50 before oil prices plunged in mid-2014, traded around 90 cents one year ago.
The company, which now has about 90 employees and produces around 21,000 barrels per day, began a strategic review process during the first quarter of 2019.
“We got the best deal out there, the best we’ve seen,” said Sametz. “We are not jumping up and down, obviously. We are relieved to have been been able to do a deal…
“We know that the assets and people and other things will be going into good hands. But at the same time, Pengrowth was an icon at one time. Its (name) was on the Saddledome…
“It morphed from royalty trust to senior E&P… and now it is sold. So yeah, it is disappointing.”
On the other side of the transaction, Cona Resources will be acquiring the company if the deal is approved by shareholders and secured debtholders later this year.
Cona is owned by private equity firm Waterous Energy Fund and produces about 14,000 barrels of oil per day from properties in Saskatchewan.
“We were attracted to the (Pengrowth) asset base and the other part of this is, we are very keen to continue (to) invest in Canadian energy,” Cona CEO Rob Morgan said Friday.
“We are perhaps being a bit contrarian, but we think there is an opportunity.”
Analysts say Pengrowth has solid assets with its Lindbergh thermal heavy oil project in Alberta and its properties in the Montney, but it also faced a difficult environment.
In a note, National Bank of Canada analyst John Hunt called the takeover “a tough resolution for the company, given the strength of the Lindbergh asset, but likely the most favourable in the context of the current environment.”
“It’s a classic buyer’s market,” added Rafi Tahmazian, a senior portfolio manager at Canoe Financial. 
But the deal highlights other issues facing the sector.
As Sametz points out, oil prices in Western Canada have been highly volatile in the past year, production curtailment was put in place because of the steep oil-price discount, pipeline constraints are unresolved and there remains an uncertain regulatory and political environment in the country.
“There’s no capital coming into our business and we are capital consumers. There has to be some sense of things are going in the right direction, not the wrong direction, at all levels of government,” he added.
“Is Canada open for business in the energy sector?”
That’s a question many people in the oilpatch are pondering in the aftermath of a polarizing federal election debate over climate and energy concerns.
Yet, there is still optimism percolating in the industry as well.
Canada has large oil and natural gas reserves at a time when global energy demand continues to rise, Seven Generations Energy CEO Marty Proctor pointed out Monday on the sidelines of a conference.
“What I would really like is for the (federal) government to be supportive of our business and recognize that we can do things that are good for all Canadians,” he said.
And while it’s painfully slow to watch, some progress is being made on key pipelines such as Enbridge’s Line 3 replacement project and the Trans Mountain expansion, which is now under construction.
“Sure there’s a lot of negativity, but in the bigger picture, what I’ve seen in this country and this industry is we go through cycles. And we are going through a down cycle right now and there’s no doubt that investment has slowed considerably,” Enbridge CEO Al Monaco said in an interview last week.
“The reason for that is people want to see egress. They want an ability to get to market. I really believe once we get these pipelines in, you will see a resurgence, the money will flow back in.”
But right now, the flow is turned down — and the trying times continue for the Canadian oil and gas sector.

        Chris Varcoe is a Calgary Herald columnist.
      

        cvarcoe@postmedia.com
      
