
# IND vs BAN | Have followed Shakib Al Hasan since I was a kid, reveals Afif Hossain

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:57:19+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/ind-vs-ban-have-followed-shakib-al-hasan-since-i-was-a-kid-reveals-afif-hossain?utm_medium=rss)


        The 20-year-old Bangladesh all-rounder Afif Hossain is happy and has spoken highly of estranged cricketer Shakib Al Hasan, whom he has followed since childhood. The International Cricket Council has banned Shakib for a year from international cricket and yet Bangladesh went on to win the 1st T20I.
      
After emerging victorious in the first T20I in Delhi, visiting team Bangladesh is looking to seal the series in the second game at Rajkot. And young off-spinner Afif doesn’t want to comment on whether the hosts are under pressure after losing the first T20I. However, he admitted that winning the series opener has pumped up the confidence of the Mahmudullah-led Bangladesh side.
While Shakib is in exile, seasoned opener Tamim Iqbal was away for personal reasons. In absence of these two major cricketers, Mushfiqur Rahim starred in Bangladesh’s seven-wicket win over India. The bowlers’ contributions were equally fruitful.
According to Afif, Bangladeshi players are trying their best to make up for his absence. “Shakib bhai has sent a congratulatory message to the whole team. I always used to follow him since I was a kid. Everyone is trying to perform their best in their roles. It is our team plan,” Afif was quoted as saying by Sportstar.
“We are not thinking about winning or losing the series. Now we are just focusing on our job. We are just trying to give our best,” he added.
