
# Jeff Brazier says being a single dad was 'really tough' amid marriage difficulties

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:50:36+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/jeff-brazier-says-being-single-20837401)

Jeff Brazier has opened up about his experience of being a single dad to his two lads, Bobby, 16, and Freddie, 15.
The 40 year old had his two boys with Jade Goody , but had to bring them up on his own after the tragic death of their mum in 2009.
Jade died aged 27, having battled cervical cancer.
Jeff has since remarried to Kate Dwyer, and recently revealed that they've had "difficulties" because Kate had a "change of heart" about having kids after they tied the knot.
Now, in a candid interview with podcast Verified Views , Jeff said being a single dad was 'the most difficult experience' of his life.
"It's been the most difficult experience in my life," he said. "But the most rewarding.
"And there are moments like, when the boys were best men at my wedding a year ago and they stood up and spoke with such humour and maturity and such feeling and emotional intelligence.
"And that was the first and only time I think I've ever really allowed myself to pat myself on the back, because it was just, it was there on front of me."
Jeff added: "I couldn't deny it was incredible because children don't really show you their best, they save that for everybody else. So I hang on some moments like that."
On his marriage, Jeff's also been very candid.
Chatting to The Mail , he said: "Being married makes you feel more settled, but life doesn't feel much different because Kate has a wonderful career in PR where she works very hard and long hours, so it's still just me and the boys at home a fair bit.
"I'm not sure whether we'll have children.
"I had thought when we got married we'd go straight in [on starting a family] but there seems to have been a change of heart about that, and a need for a little more time before those decisions are made.
"I'm just happy if we do or don't, and I'm content to be patient and let Kate figure all that out."
He put rumours to bed about a possible split between him and Kate, saying: "It has been tough, but then it was meant to be tough.
"You know, it was what I signed up to. I didn't necessarily sign up to doing it on my own, but that's nobody's fault.
"I like to think we've all got the ability to step up and whatever it requires in order to give your children what they need until they no longer require it."
