
# BlizzCon Opening Ceremonies, With Live Updates

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Heather Newman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/hnewman/2019/11/01/blizzcon-opening-ceremonies-with-live-updates/)

The opening ceremonies for BlizzCon, the fan convention for all games from Blizzard Entertainment, start at 11 a.m. Pacific Time this morning at the Anaheim Convention Center. We’ll have live updates right here throughout the ceremonies, so keep refreshing this page for the latest news and information.This convention is expected to be exciting for a number of reasons: One, the likelihood of four separate new-game or new-expansion announcements, likely including Overwatch 2, Diablo 4, the new World of Warcraft expansion (Shadowlands?) and a fourth title that as yet hasn’t had associated leaks, but could be Hearthstone’s next expansion or – crossing fingers here – some new intellectual property.
Second, in addition to the announcements, more than 35,000 gamers are here to see updates about titles they know are coming, including this winter’s Warcraft III: Reforged. This is a banner year for BlizzCon, especially compared to last year’s somewhat-lackluster lineup, including the much-maligned announcement of Diablo: Immortal, a mobile game that has since been delayed.
And third, more recently, Blizzard has struggled under the extreme cultural backlash from fining and suspending a Hong Kong Hearthstone Grandmaster esports player, who used part of an interview on the company’s Chinese-language stream to express his support of the Hong Kong protests that have been underway since June.
After several days of fan outrage and angry comments from everyone including celebrities, streamers, Blizzard employees and California’s politicians, the company did return the player’s prize money and reduce his suspension, but maintained that the censure was the correct action.
12:26 p.m.: Kaplan closes the opening ceremonies. “Be good to each other - now let’s go play some video games.”
12:23 p.m.: Sojourn will be a new hero, a black woman. There will be multiple new heroes.
Current Overwatch players will play on all the same maps and heroes as Overwatch 2. “No one gets left behind,” he says.
All cosmetics will carry over to Overwatch 2. The game has more than 50 million players at this point, he said.
12:21 p.m.: “We want everyone to play the mode today and tell us how... balanced... it is,” Kaplan joked. The Push mode is playable on a new Toronto map.
“Overwatch 2 will feature a ton of PvE content,” he says. A Rio de Janiero map will be playable today.
“Hero Missions,” powered by a progression system in single-player mode, are intended to supplement the core competitive gameplay, he said.
12:19 p.m.: Heroes can level up, customize talents. There is a new PvP mode: Push. A new look makes characters more three-dimensionally plastic, at least in this trailer.
12:17 p.m.: A gameplay trailer shows story missions, single-player content. It shows a series of playable cities and advertises “highly replayable co-op.”
12:15 p.m.: The sequel, to no one’s surprise, is announced: Overwatch 2.
12:13 p.m.: A cinematic shows Winston, Mei and Tracer helping in Paris against a Null Sector invasion. Mei is hurt, and Tracer takes her to safety, leaving Winston to face a giant robot alone - until a slew of other heroes appear to help save the day.
12:08 p.m.: Jeff Kaplan, Overwatch game director, takes the stage, joking about the rampant leaks and spoilers of the previous week.
12:03 p.m. An Overwatch cinematic begins.
12 p.m.: A new mode will be called Hearthstone Battlegrounds. It’s an eight-player mode inspired by the autobattler genre, Thompson says. Recruit minions and send them against your opponent. The entire Hearthstone demo area will be Battlegrounds.
Open beta will start November 12. Prepurchasers of Descent of Dragons, people in attendance and Virtual Ticket holders will start beta this coming Tuesday.
11:56 a.m.: “Invoke,” the new Hearthstone keyword, allows other cards to invoke your hero card, making its powers stronger before you equip it. All hero cards will available for free when the set launches. Each class will get its own Legendary dragon.
The new set launches December 10. Prepurchase begins today.
11:51 a.m.: Ben Thompson, creative director for Hearthstone, takes the stage in that arena, showing off a trailer for the new expansion: Descent of Dragons.
11:48 a.m.: Shadowlands is the afterlife for the WoW universe, Hazzikostas said. “This is not a familiar world... it predates the Titans themselves.” It’s the home of the spirit healers that resurrect WoW players.
A gameplay trailer shows four zones: Revendreth, Ardenweald. Maidraxxis, Bastion. You can “choose a covenant,” which Hazzikostas teases will allow you to choose your allies, perhaps helping to alleviate WoW’s significant faction balance problems?
The expansion is coming next year, and preorders open today. The Bastion zone is playable on the show floor.
11:45 a.m.: Sylvanas takes the Lich King’s crown and his power. “That crown will be your prison,” Bolvar Fordragon says. “This world is a prison,” she says, and destroys the crown, creating a portal in the sky. “And I will set us all free!”
The next WoW expansion, as previously leaked, is World of Warcraft: Shadowlands.
11:45 a.m.: A new WoW cinematic debuts, and fans roar as Icecrown Citadel, home of the Lich King, is featured with controversial Horde ex-warchief Sylvanas Windrunner.
11:40 a.m.: Blizzard charity beneficiaries this year will be Make a Wish and WE.org. Dottie, the baby alpaca, will be the new charity pet in World of Warcraft, and will go on sale in December and benefit both organizations.
Nov. 5, anniversary events will start in retail World of Warcraft, including throwback versions of the Alterac Valley battleground and three raid bosses. Completing the encounters will give players the Obsidian Worldbreaker mount; anyone who logs in gets the Little Nefarian pet.
11:35 a.m.: Ion Hazzikostas, game director for World of Warcraft, takes the stage in an alternate hall to give the WoW update, including Classic.
“This community stands as strong as it ever has,” he said.
In 10 days, the week of November 12, Classic will enable world bosses Azuregos and Kazzak, as well as the PvP honor system. The Dire Maul dungeon is playable on the show floor.
11:32 a.m.: Brack closes. “There are a lot of Blizzard employees out there in the crowd, and the reason we’re here is you. We are grateful. Thank you for being there with us. Welcome come.”
11:30 a.m.: Brack says Classic has brought “millions” of players back to World of Warcraft’s Azeroth.
“There will be vanilla ice cream on sale in the WoW concessions area. You think that you want this,” he said, in reference to his famous comment about Classic, in which he said players thought they wanted it, but didn’t really. “And we think maybe that you do.”
The Overwatch League will travel to 20 cities next year, he said.
11:27 a.m.: Anyone at the show or holding a Virtual Ticket will receive the hero Deathwing in the Nexus in the massive online battle arena game Heroes of the Storm. All heroes will be free until November 10.
11:22 a.m.: Brack re-takes the floor, confusingly, after Hazzikostas is introduced.
“It’s good to be able to say Diablo IV out loud,” he said, obliquely referring to last year’s Immortal debacle. “We want to be sure that when we reveal Diablo to you, we want to be able to show you a lot of the dark world of Sanctuary. A lot of love went into this game.”
He announces the Blizzard Arcade in Hall B, to experience early content. Roll n’ Roll Racing, BlackThorne and The Lost Vikings are playable – as well as StarCraft II versus the DeepMind AI that recently made Grandmaster status.
“You won’t win. Three of you will win. I won’t win,” he said.
11:21 a.m.: A playable demo is on the show floor.
11:20 a.m.: A gameplay trailer shows the Druid both casting and shifting into bear form to melee.
11:17 a.m.: Diablo IV will feature consensual player-versus-player combat. It’ll be on PC, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, with isometric gameplay. Classes on display include the Barbarian, the Sorceress, and the Druid.
“We are approaching this series with reverence, and we hope that it shows,” he says.
11:15 a.m.: The world of Sanctuary will play a central role in the game, including a dark, gothic version of hell, he says.
11:13 a.m.: The photorealistic trailer is, as expected, for Diablo IV, showing the summoning of the demon in extremely gory detail. Luis Barraga takes the stage. The game is embracing darker, horror-like roots from the franchise’s origin, he says.
11:07 a.m.: Technical difficulties replace the cinematic with an infinite view of the audience and view screen, returning to the video after a few very precious sections of action have elapsed.
11:04 a.m.: The on-screen countdown begins to the raucous cheers of the audience, but stops at 4 for a Diablo cinematic that has the audience screaming.
11:03 a.m.: Brack says fans from 59 countries are in attendance.
“Our best moments are here, in our shared passion for Blizzard games. BlizzCon has brought us together, and today you’re going to see a lot of the hard work of the Blizzard team.”
11 a.m.: The cheering begins as Blizzard President J. Allen Brack takes the stage and makes an apology:
“We moved too quickly in our decision making, and then, to make matters worse, we were too slow to talk with you. We didn’t live up to the high standards that we set for ourselves. We failed in our purpose. For that, I am sorry, and I accept accountability.”
The audience cheers, with a lone “Free Hong Kong!” from the back.
10:40 a.m.: The livestream begins. Blizzard is offering several main panels for free in its stream, with others pay-gated behind the Virtual Ticket. The livecast starts with the ESRB “inappropriate content” warning, confirming the worst-kept secret of the fall: We’ve got a Diablo announcement coming.
10:30 a.m.: The main stage filled to capacity about a half-hour ago, and the other stages are full and filling fast. The crowd is cheerfully chatting, waiting for the action to begin.
9:30 a.m.: Support for Hong Kong outside the Anaheim Convention Center included a dozen people handing out free t-shirts supporting the revolution, featuring the Overwatch character Mei, to attendees in an extremely well-mannered way.
Inside, I did spot a Winnie the Pooh cosplay, a Hong Kong reference because of memes suggesting Chinese President Xi Jinping looks like the cartoon bear, leading to references to the character being banned in China. But otherwise the Hong Kong influence appears to be pretty quiet, perhaps not surprising in an audience of tens of thousands that have paid more than $200 to attend.
