
# Review: Ring Fit Adventure

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:00:00+00:00**

Author: **CJ Andriessen**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/review-ring-fit-adventure-571099.phtml)

God I'm fat.

        Ring Fit Adventure (Switch)
        
        Developer: Nintendo
        
        Publisher: Nintendo
        
        Released: October 18, 2019
        
        MSRP: $79.99
      
My road to physical fitness has had more twists and turns than Lombard Street. Every time I think I'm going in the right direction, something pulls me the other way. Depression, a change in living situation or employment, failing after going down to Hollywood thinking I'll make it big as a screenwriter, and sudden allergic reaction to most laundry detergents have all, at one point, decimated the progress I'd made at eating right and exercising. It's been a 20-year journey for me, and finally, there is an exercise game that treats physical fitness as a journey.
Ring Fit Adventure is what Wii Fit failed to be. While incredibly popular and quite fun -- boxing was a personal favorite of mine -- the actual game was basically one of those exercise list posters you see at the gym. It told you what you can do, but not what you should do and all the inspiration to get fit had to come from within. Ring Fit Adventure goes in a different direction. While you can still make your own workout routines from an extensive list of 60 different exercises, the motivation it provides is something all gamers will be familiar with: beating the final boss.
The story of Ring Fit Adventure's adventure mode has you teaming up with the cleverly named Ring as he attempts to stop his former protégé Dragaux. The quest is split up between dozens of levels across multiple worlds. Before you start each session, you're given the option to warm up with some stretching. Doing so will add to your XP. Gaining as more XP unlocks more exercises for the mode. How do you gain XP? By working your butt off.
