
# Woman, 21, who married man, 74, cheats on him with another pensioner

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:25:26+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Wilkes, Ana Marjanovic, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/woman-21-who-married-man-20810573)

A 21-year-old woman who married a 74-year-old cheated on him with a pensioner just weeks after sleeping with another elderly man, according to reports.
Milijana Bozic has been seen on Serbian reality TV show 'Parovi' - which translates as 'Couples' in English - kissing 60-year-old Nemanja Stamatovic Zabac.
This despite being married to Milojko Bozic since September this year.
And local media reports this latest incident comes just weeks after Milijana was snapped naked in bed with another older man.
In the photos taken from the show, Milijana can be seen kissing Mr Zabac and sitting on his lap.
   
Other images show them in bed together and local media reports she had sex with the other, older man while her husband slept next to them.
The unnamed older man, who is reportedly older than husband Milojko, even attended their highly-publicised wedding.
He is also said to be married with children, although Milijana denies having a fling with him.
 
She said: "The person who posted those photos will be sued. They are selfies I took and I know who I sent the pictures to, and I know who posted them.
"I have seen this man a couple of times, but I have not been in a relationship with him."
And in the previous season of the reality show 'Parovi', Milijana confessed that she had oral sex with 35-year-old married contestant Aleksandar Pozgaj after Milojko was eliminated.
At the time, she said: "We were intimate. We didn't have full sex, I satisfied him orally and he did the same for me. There was also touching and cuddling."
Despite the apparent indiscretion, Milojko forgave his partner.
But this time he does not believe that this is only a game and he stated: "If you set it like this, our conflict will continue after the reality show."
 
He later added: "She's playing me and is making a fool out of me. This is not a game this is real! Miliana is playing both of us."
Milijana tried to explain to her husband that it was just a game.
She reportedly said that it is difficult for her to find a free elderly man because her target group is much older gentlemen.
Zabac is divorced and has three adult children, reportedly telling Milijana he no longer needed his wife in his life.
Local media report Zabac has previously served a ten-year prison sentence.
