
# Parents with young children at child sex inquiry nursery demand answers

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:06:15+00:00**

Author: **Adam Aspinall, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/adam-aspinall/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/parents-young-children-child-sex-20820420)

Parents of young children who attended the nursery at the centre of a child sex inquiry are demanding to know why their kids were exposed to possible harm.
Detectives on Tuesday revealed they had contacted more than 100 families, and it is feared as many as a dozen ­children, aged from two to five, could have been victims.
Police confirmed they had arrested an employee of the Jack and Jill Childcare nursery on suspicion of sexual offences against children after an allegation of sexual abuse was made in July.
An employee of the nursery in Torquay, Devon, has been released while investigations continue.
Parents yesterday spoke of their fury that their children could have been put in danger after police from the Devon and Cornwall force scoured more than 250 hours of CCTV and listed children as young as two as potential victims.
One mum told the Daily Mirror: "There is real confusion about how this kind of thing can happen.
"Surely the nursery should have monitored all contact with the children?
"Everyone is sick with worry and wants answers. We want our kids to be safe. We don’t know what the future holds for them."
A dad said: "It’s a difficult kind of thing to talk about.
"I feel they failed my boy."
He said that information was only being passed on to parents in “bits and pieces”.
The parent added: "The honest truth is that when it all first happened we didn’t know a lot about what had gone on. How can this sort of thing be let to happen?"
Ofsted suspended the nursery’s licence last month after police uncovered “a number of concerns around ­safeguarding matters”.
One of the owners said he was shocked at the arrest and added that the employee had been CRB checked.
He said: “At the end of the day, I actually don’t know what the hell is going on.”
Acting Detective Chief Inspector James Stock said: "We have now contacted all parents and guardians of children who attended Jack and Jill Childcare in relation to our investigation.
"Specialist officers from the public protection unit and our colleagues from social services have visited the parents and guardians of those children we believe may be victims.
"They will continue to receive multi-agency support in the coming days, weeks and months."
Police said bail conditions meant the employee was not allowed near the nursery and revealed that the member of staff had left the area.
Mr Stock added: "These appear to be the actions of a lone individual and the offences do not involve the taking or distributing of any images."
Nancy Meehan, deputy director of children’s services at Torbay Council, said: “We take safeguarding children incredibly seriously and we are working closely with partners including the police in relation to this matter.”
An Ofsted spokesman said: “Jack and Jill Childcare is suspended.
“All parents of children who attend the provider have been informed.”
