
# Medopad And Janssen Develop Automated Digital Test To Detect Alzheimer’s Earlier

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nicholas Fearn**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicholasfearn/2019/11/05/medopad-and-janssen-develop-automated-digital-test-to-detect-alzheimers-earlier/)

Health innovation startup Medopad has teamed up with pharmaceutical giant Janssen to detect Alzheimer’s disease earlier using digital technology.The firms will work together to identify early signs of Alzheimer’s by testing verbal memory remotely in the home and across the NHS.
As part of a partnership facilitated by Johnson & Johnson Innovation, Medopad will help to validate and scale the ReVeRe platform as a digital biomarker for the disease.  
Developed by and clinically validated by Janssen, the software provides a remote and automated assessment for individuals at risk of Alzheimer’s.
Running on iPads, it automates the administration and scoring of the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test alongside other tests of attention and executive function relevant to the early stages of Alzheimer’s. 
Dan Vahdat, CEO and founder of Medopad, said Alzheimer’s is increasingly prevalent, expensive to treat and has no cure as yet. 
He commented: “This collaboration between Janssen Pharmaceuticals and Medopad is looking to solve the lack of methodology to diagnose AD and quantify disease progression in patients at scale and to generate new data (in the form of a biomarker) so novel therapies and treatments can be developed post clinical validation.” 
Over the coming months, Medopad will use its experience in implementing digital healthcare solutions in NHS to deploy the ReVeRe technology across patient populations in the U.K. and China.  
Medopad said it wants to” implement a home-based, validated automated cognitive tool” capable of facilitating the “unsupervised and reliable longitudinal assessment of early cognitive decline due to AD within a real-world environment.”
Vahdat claims that once the technology is clinically validated for use via mobile devices, it could screen an entire nation for Alzheimer’s disease at a very low cost, with benefits for both patients and medical professionals. 
He said: “This technology can help diagnose patients at scale and to provide a unique insight into the disease progression. 
“ReVeRe will give clinicians the ability to provide better quality care (adjusting treatments in line with disease progression for example) which could lead to better clinical outcomes and quality of life for patients and cost savings for healthcare systems.”
Looking ahead, Vahdat revealed that the organizations will be making the digital biomarker available on mobile phones in English and Mandarin speakers. 
“Once the technology is ready to launch,  we will work to scale this platform globally.   There is an opportunity to screen entire populations at low cost for Alzheimer’s Disease which is hugely exciting,” he added. 
“We are planning to collaborate with Janssen Pharmaceuticals and Johnson & Johnson Innovation to further develop, validate, scale and commercialize digital biomarkers that could lead to novel therapies and treatments for patients across several diseases.”
