
# Jurgen Klopp's angry response to Roberto Firmino's farcical armpit VAR call

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:49:39+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopps-angry-response-roberto-20798927)

Jurgen Klopp reacted angrily after being told Roberto Firmino's 'goal' was ruled offside due to his armpit - before suggesting referees could get a manager sacked.
Striker Firmino was denied a Liverpool leveller against Aston Villa, after Trezeguet's early opener, by the linesman's flag, which was confirmed by VAR official Martin Atkinson.
But the despite the decision proving correct, it was explained that only the Brazilian's armpit with closer to the goal than defender Tyrone Mings.
The Premier League confirmed the decision in a tweet: "Liverpool's Roberto Firmino was flagged offside before putting the ball in the net against Aston Villa and the decision was confirmed by VAR.
"The red line signifies Firmino and was aligned to his armpit, which was marginally ahead of the last Villa defender."
The offside call didn't cost Reds after their late show - with Andy Robertson and Sadio Mane turning the result around inside the last five minutes.
But German Klopp was not impressed by the technology and reckons a decision could be the difference between a boss having employment or not.
When told about Firmino's armpit he said: "You what? His armpit?
“We won 2-1, so it's now not that serious. But we are talking about serious moments, it's not right that we are sitting here talking about it and everybody wants to laugh.
“There's nothing to laugh about, to be honest. A manager can get sacked for losing football games.
“I don't want to make it bigger than it is. We just have to clarify it. I don't say anybody is doing it on purpose.”
Klopp also admitted his table toppers got lucky with the victory.
We still have to learn, we still have to improve, we do, we will, I know that," Klopp said.
"And sometimes you need to get knocks ... But at the end, in the moment, so far, we could sort it, most of the time. Yes of course when you score these kind of goals, it's lucky but it's not that we didn't deserve to win the game."
"I never thought a second about 'did we lose already?' or 'can we win?' We just have to try to score, that's everything.
"It's not that I think because now we have a couple of comebacks today is another comeback," said Klopp, whose team also went a goal down to Tottenham Hotspur last weekend before winning 2-1.
"We know it's possible, everybody knows it's possible, but we really know it, and the boys tried it ... That's football ... We don't have any alternatives, what can we do?"
