
# Buddie Ryan Flynn opens up on action-packed career spanning winners at Anfield and Sheffield United play-off agony

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ben Ramage**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/buddie-ryan-flynn-opens-up-20788631)

Ryan Flynn is the first to admit that his career on the pitch certainly seems to have a habit of being defined by the end of each season.
As a young prospect at Liverpool he scored in two Youth FA Cup finals to secure wins over both Manchester City and Manchester United, in front of the Kop at Anfield and the Stretford end at Old Trafford.
The talented midfielder has also felt the pain of play-off agony three times at Sheffield United as the Blades agonisingly missed out on promotion repeatedly on the last day of the season.
Now into his second year at St Mirren, the 31-year-old from Falkirk is glad to finally be back to enjoying saving the best to last again.
Having lifted the Championship title in his first campaign, in which he joined halfway through the season, he also enjoyed the club’s triumph in the nail-biting play-off penalty shootout last May to secure the Buddies’ Premiership status.
“The way the last two seasons have ended has been great really,” the experienced campaigner told Express Sport.
“We got promoted in my first season here and then had the great escape last season.
“Even the way we finished last year, with three defeats in 15 games, the form we were in during that spell meant I thought we deserved to stay up.
“We somehow got over that line. Having a fantastic keeper like Vaclav Hladky obviously helped.
“I’m not looking for the same again this season though to be honest.
“Hopefully this season doesn’t end quite as dramatically as last time around.”
 
Flynn enjoyed mixed fortunes during his two spells plying his trade in England.
He moved from Falkirk to English giants Liverpool as a teenager, playing in a very successful youth side that saw him bag winning cup goals in some memorable stadiums before returning back to the Bairns.
He said: “I was at Liverpool for about four years. I joined a very good group of players and we had two FA Youth Cup wins and went on to win the Reserve League as well. Jay Spearing was in that team and some other very good players like Adam Hammill, who also played up here.
“I scored in front of the Kop in the first cup final and the second was a penalty shootout at Old Trafford, so that was two dramatic ends to the season that year too.
“It’s very difficult to break into the top level at a team like that.
“I came back up to Falkirk where I was before. They had just got to the Scottish Cup final so were in Europe when I joined.
“We got beat by Vaduz but I did score the first goal for the club in Europe which was nice at the time.
“It would have been nicer if we’d have gotten through though to be honest.”
 
Flynn returned back for another crack down south to now Premier League side Sheffield United, where he went on to play more that 150 times for the Blades.
There he experienced even more dramatic ends to the season, including three heartbreaking play-off defeats as promotion eluded him, including a cup battle with Spurs stars Harry Kane and Christian Erikson.
He said: “I’ve got great memories from Sheffield United, but we never quite got promoted which was the disappointing part for me.
“We got to two FA Cup semi-finals and a League Cup semi-final which was obviously an unbelievable achievement for a League One team.
“I played in the play-off final and got beat in that, and two play-off semi-finals and also got beat in them.
“The cup games are a little bit easier to take but at the time were still painful.
“The first FA Cup semi-final was against Hull and we were 2-1 up at half-time and were playing really well. We just got it wrong and went too attacking. That was a hard one to take because if we’d have got to the final we’d have had Arsenal and got into Europe, which would have been amazing for a League One club.
“The second semi-final was against Tottenham. We got beat 1-0 away and got it back to 2-2 but they went through after we were chasing the game.
“They had a full team out including Harry Kane, Christian Eriksen. They had a very good team at the time.
“It was too much of a nearly time at Sheffield United.
“Chris Wilder has come in and done a fantastic job and they’re flying now. I’m happy to see them doing so well.”
 
After a disappointing spell at Oldham, Flynn grabbed the opportunity to return to his homeland with both hands.
And now he’s hoping to give the Buddies fans something to shout about this season after they supported the club through thick and thin last season.
He added: “I didn’t enjoy my time at Oldham to be honest. I had two kids and got to the January transfer window and was just desperate to get back to Scotland.
“I spoke to Stephen McGinn and Jack Ross and I was just buzzing to come back up the road.
“It was Ross who signed me and it was a really easy decision. I spoke to Tony Fitzpatrick as well who is a good guy.
“I was delighted to come back up and sign. The team we had at the time was flying, and the football they played was brilliant.
“They thoroughly deserved to win that Championship.
“It was nice to be a part of it. Even last year we enjoyed the challenge of staying up. The fans backed us when we were at our lowest last season so I’ve never doubted their support. Hopefully we can give them a good season this year.”
