
# Levante 3-1 Barcelona: Player ratings from an embarrassing display

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:52:01+00:00**

Author: **Nishant Narayanan**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/03/levante-3-1-barcelona-player-ratings-embarrassing-display/)

Ernesto Valverde’s Barcelona fails to maintain their seven-match win streak and they fail to earn a point from Levante. Despite a decent opening quarter from the Spanish giants while leading at halftime, Levante fought back and found themselves scoring 3 goals in seven minutes to sweep them from the game.
Marc Andre Ter Stegen (5)- Couldn’t protect Barcelona from the defensive errors this time around as the team concedes three in seven minutes.
Sergi Roberto (5)-   Back at right-back, with Valverde strangely placing Semedo on Left back. Roberto did alright at the back but failed to create an impact on the offense.
Clement Lenglet (4)-  After a decent first half, he completely fell through in the second with bad positioning and imprecise tackles.
Gerard Pique (4)- Rocky performance throughout the match with his poor clearance leading to the equalizer that gave momentum to the Levante attacks.
Nelson Semedo (6)-  One of the few players who did well offensively, yet he also had some poor positioning in the back. Earning the penalty for Messi that saw Barca leading at the end of the first half.
Frenkie de Jong (6)-  De Jong was featured in Busquets’ role as a defensive midfielder but failed to take control of the game. He had some positive moments in the first half but failed to connect his passes on many occasions tonight, and was not up to his usual standards.
Arthur Melo (5)-Had a solid first half but failed to be involved in the game in the second. He could have been sent off in the first half after forcing unnecessary tackles on the Levante players.
Arturo Vidal (4)- There are always two sides of the Chilean and tonight it was the worst half. He played all over the place and had no order.
Lionel Messi (7)- Scored a perfect penalty in the first half and displayed his class once again in the second but was ruled out by VAR because of Griezmann’s offside. The lack of structure in the back saw him force his own way through the Levante’s defense.
Luis Suarez (5)-  Levante managed to keep Suarez quiet during the first half until he was taken off the field due to injury before the half time whistle.
Antoine Griezmann (6)-  Worked really hard defensively on countless occasions, was seen in the defensive penalty box preventing Barcelona from conceding.  The former Atletico Madrid ace, however, wasn’t fast or agile on his feet and there is clearly an adaptation problem that Valverde needs to address immediately.
Sergio Busquets (5)- Tried to bring control to the game but failed to do so. Perhaps if he had started the match, Barcelona could have had a different result tonight.
Carlos Perez (4)- Couldn’t make an impact on the match tonight and failed to show himself as a potential replacement for Suarez.
Ansu Fati (5)- Displayed his talent with a few attacking maneuvers but failed to put his name on the score sheet tonight.

        Ernesto Valverde (3)- 
      
Valverde’s had a questionable line-up tonight with him playing Nelson Semedo at left-back with Jordi Alba along with summer signing, Junior Firpo, watched the game from the bench. This meant that Sergi Roberto was playing on the right-back position.
In the midfield, Frenkie de Jong was playing the Busquets role with Arturo Vidal starting. We all know how much Barcelona struggles to control the game without having Busquets out on the field.
Another surprise for Barca fans was the omission of Dembele from the squad itself, with many fans furious to see the expensive Frenchman missing out once again.
With this result and his lack of ability to alter it, Valverde is going to be in a tough spot for the coming weeks with the Catalan looking to bounce back from this disappointing performance.
What are your thoughts on Barcelona’s disappointing performance tonight?
