
# Beyond ‘The Black Parade’: My Chemical Romance’s Most Underrated Tracks

Published at: **2019-11-04T03:29:55+00:00**

Author: **Bianca Davino**

Original: [Junkee](https://junkee.com/my-chemical-romance-underrated/227122)

The holiest of 2000s emo deities, My Chemical Romance, have returned.
The announcement of their reunion on Friday morning caused pandemonium among their fans, and even surprised the band themselves.
Despite their absence from the scene over the last six years, My Chemical Romance’s impact has endured, penetrating the DNA of all boisterous rock, punk, and heavy outfits since. But with “emo-nostalgia” creeping back into mainstream pop culture discourse in recent years, it has at times seemed that My Chemical Romance’s expansive discography and legacy has been boiled down to (albeit excellent) MTV hits that fill the dancefloors of emo club nights, and cringey guy-liner jokes.
However, beyond the iconic chorus of ‘Welcome To The Black Parade’ is a discography that flexed and pushed genre boundaries, and influenced countless acts in the years since. In honour of My Chem’s return, we went through their back catalogue to pull out some of their most under-appreciated deep cuts, album tracks, and B-sides.
Released in 2002 and produced by Thursday’s Geoff Rickly, I Brought You My Bullets, You Brought Me Your Love was the incubation stage of the New Jersey natives marrying their aptitude for classic rock and metal with in-vogue emo and “scene” flavours.
‘Headfirst For Halos’ is a prime example — a shred-guitar-101 lick prances over stadium rock drums during its climactic intro, allowing space for the track to descend into theatrical chaos. It’s equal parts Misfits and Queen — a blend soon to be distilled on 2006’s The Black Parade — where bleeding hearts and frenetic octave chord crescendos allow for Gerard Way’s signature wails to thrive.
