
# Save Big On Popular Nikon Cameras & Lenses Today

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:45:51+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-save-nikon-cameras-lenses-black-friday-holideals.html)

Amazon has kickstarted its HoliDeals in the lead up to Black Friday, and it is discounting a number of Nikon Cameras and Lenses right now. allowing you to save big on these products, ahead of Black Friday.
In this deal today, you can save big on the Nikon D750. Which is available as the body only, is on sale for $1196. Now if you're wanting something that is a bit cheaper, the Nikon D3500 is available in a dual-lens kit for $446. There's also the Nikon D7500 which is available in a dual-lens kit as well for $996 – this is also available as just the body for $200 less.
There are also some really good prime lenses available for Nikon cameras. Including the 50mm f/1.8 lens which is just $176. Now that is about the same price as many retailers are charging for a used one, right now. Making this a really good deal. The NIKKOR Z 35mm f/1.8 lens is also on sale for $696 (about $200 off), as well as a few other prime lenses being available.
Advertisement
There's many more cameras and lenses on sale right now over at Amazon. It's like Christmas day for photographers right now, especially when paired with that two-day delivery from Amazon Prime.
These are some really good prices, and compared to the prices we've already seen for Black Friday – thanks to the different ad scans – it doesn't look like these will get much cheaper, come Black Friday. So now is definitely the time to pick one or two up. These are going to be great for those photographers on your list, especially if they use Nikon.
You can pick up any of these Nikon cameras and lenses from Amazon during this HoliDeals sale by clicking here, remember this is better than what they will be on Black Friday. So now is the time to grab them.
Advertisement

        Nikon Cameras & Lenses - Amazon
      
