
# ‘Old Impotent White Bastard’: Folks Outraged After Black Former Child Model Claims Years of Sexual Abuse at Hands of Manhattan Exec

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:15:12+00:00**

Author: **Lauren Floyd**

Original: [Atlanta Black Star](https://atlantablackstar.com/2019/11/05/old-impotent-white-bastard-twitter-users-outraged-after-black-former-child-model-claims-years-of-sexual-abuse-at-hands-of-white-manhattan-exec/)

A Black woman is suing a Manhattan exec with close ties to alleged Jeffrey Epstein madam Ghislaine Maxwell after the plaintiff said Maxwell groomed her to be the executive’s sex slave, starting when she was a 14-year-old child model.
Nikki Henry, 38, alleged in the lawsuit the New York Post obtained that Douglas Graham, 69, was 45 years old when he spotted her at a modeling event in Union Square in 1995 and began a relationship that escalated into a sexual one.
The more than 20-year-long relationship, which allegedly included brutal S&M sessions only ended recently, Henry told the newspaper.
“I was 14, 15 going to Gramercy Tavern,” she said. “He took me to see the Chippendale dancers when I was 15. I think I was 16 when we went to England.”
She told the Post Graham, who was close to Maxwell’s father, media mogul Robert Maxwell, wouldn’t even let her bathe alone and that the relationship with Graham caused her to miss out on getting married and having children.
“All I have now is fear,” she told the New York Post.
Graham, a former managing director at accounting giant KPMG, denied the allegations in the suit, claiming he only started dating Henry once she was in her 20s and that he has seven orders of protection against her.
“This current accusation that she is making is simply a continuation of the harassment process,” he told the Post.
Her lawyer, Paul D’Emilia, told the newspaper, “The audacity of Mr. Graham’s actions are stunning. He didn’t even feel a need to sneak around.”
While some social media users questioned Henry’s timing, others wondered where the public outrage for her was.
“Surviving Ghislaine Maxwell …. LifeTime channel where y’all at? Tell her story,” @Royal_Patience tweeted Sunday.
“Sounds like something an old impotent white bastard would do,” @tewasi1 tweeted Sunday.
“This is literally what metoo is about. It’s about victims coming forward and that’s what’s happening here. Like it’s not that hard to understand,” @Jhnny_Sunshine tweeted Monday.
