
# India vs Bangladesh, 2nd T20I: The Rajkot pitch should play better, says Rohit Sharma

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:01:16+00:00**

Author: **Sanjay Chakhaiyar**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/bangladesh-in-india/india-vs-bangladesh-2nd-t20i-the-rajkot-pitch-should-play-better-says-rohit-sharma/articleshow/71948235.cms)

RAJKOT: Indian captain Rohit Sharma feels that the Rajkot pitch should behave much better than the one they saw in Delhi during their first T20 encounter.
"The pitch in Delhi was quite challenging and a little soft, making shot-selection quite difficult. The conditions too were not ideal while the Rajkot wicket has always been a good track to bat on and also offers some assistance to the bowlers. We will have look at the pitch once again but I am sure there will be changes in our approach. The Rajkot pitch should play better," he said.
While the Indian skipper looked satisfied with the team's batting line-up, he was concerned about the bowling unit.
"We will see as to what has to be done in our bowling department. The combination that we played in our last game in New Delhi was based on the pitch they offered."
Rohit felt there were shortcomings in many departments and the side has to play far better.
"It is important to focus on the mistakes we made in New Delhi and ensure that they are not repeated again in Rajkot. We need to come together as a unit rather than focusing on individual departments," said the 32-year-old opener.
Dwelling on the pressure angle, the Indian captain was of the opinion that there was pressure on the team to perform well.
"Pressure is just on the team to perform, as simple as that. Not a particular department. You've lost as a team, you've not lost as a bowling unit. So the focus will be on the team," he added.
