
# Tesco Mobile's Black Friday deals start today - including cheapest ever iPhone

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:46:16+00:00**

Author: **Molly Holt, https://www.facebook.com/mollyjaholt/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/tesco-mobiles-black-friday-deals-20816724)

There might still be almost a month to go until the big day, but Tesco Mobile can't contain its excitement, and has instead decided to launch its Black Friday 2019 deals over three weeks early.
The mobile phone brand - which runs off o2's network - has announced that it will be launching a new set of exclusive deals each week throughout November, and if this week's offers are anything to go by, there's some very decent bargains in the mix.
Probably the cheapest item in their Black Friday sale is on the Nokia 2.2, where for only £8 a month, you can get the handset complete with 500MB of data, 250 minutes and 5000 texts, as well as a free Juice Marshmallow Bluetooth speaker worth £15.
For example, the Apple iPhone XS Max has been slashed by £180 to £41.49 per month, instead of its usual £46.49, which Tesco claims is its lowest price ever.
As for Android fans, there's also a Samsung Galaxy A50 for £17.49 per month rather than the previous £18.99 - a saving of £54 over the year's contract.
If you're after something a little cheaper, there's also a sleek Samsung S10 for just £29.99 (reduced from £35.99) with 2GB of data, 5000 minutes and 5000 texts.
There's also some major SIM only offers, with a choice between 12-month or 30-day contracts.
For those after the yearly subscription, you can get a 4GB SIM with 5000 minutes and 5000 texts on a 12-month contract, for just £10 a month, whilst those after a little more data can pick up an 8GB SIM only plan with 5000 minutes and 5000 texts for just £12.50 a month.
If you only want to be tied down for a month at a time, you can get 4GB of data, 500 minutes and 5000 texts for £10 a month, or 8G of data, 1000 minutes and 5000 texts for £15 per month.
