
# Bong Go assures public of ‘cholesterol-free’, ‘pork-free’ 2020 national budget

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:18:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/bong-go-assures-public-cholesterol-free-pork-free-2020-national-budget)

The senator, vice-chair of the Senate Committee on Finance, emphasized that 2020 national budget will undergo scrutiny to make sure that government can maximize it for the betterment of the lives of Filipinos.
“Ako, I’m in favor of pork-free, or cholesterol-free budget. Isa ako sa maghihimay niyan (since) I’m the Vice Chair po of Finance,” Go said.
“Kung kailangan po salain natin ang mga cholesterol, gamitan natin ng tubig para lumutang ‘yung mga cholesterol, gagawin natin. I want it to be pork-free.”
Go also highlighted that the budget should be given back to the people through quality and easily accessible basic services, such as healthcare which could greatly benefit the indigent and those who are hit by calamities and disasters.
“I’m for cholesterol-free budget. Ibalik sa tao ‘yung dapat ibalik (katulad ng) basic services (such as) health – ito ‘yung mga (naapektuhan ng) disaster, nangangailangan po ito. Ibalik natin sa tao ang pera nila,” Go explained to the press.
Asked if he supports the adoption of the House version of the budget and the removal or vetoing of the reported “parked” funds, Go told that he will look into the matter carefully.
“Mag-uusap pa kami. Sa ngayon, basta I’m for pork-free (budget). Ayaw ko ng mga mayroon (hindi pagkakaintindihan),” Go said.
On the possibility of budget reenactment, Go said that the budget for next year must be passed by Congress in time, otherwise the government and the Filipino people will incur losses.
“Alam mo, ang laki  ng nawawala sa Pilipino, ang laki na ng nawawala sa gobyerno tuwing reenacted budget. Kawalan po ng lahat, they are deprived of the basic services po pag re-enacted po,” Go said, adding that he wants to pass the budget on time.  
“Bilisan na natin ito. Trabaho nga naming mga senador ay ipasa ‘yung batas. Bakit hinahayaan natin na hindi maipasa ito on time? Wala nga tayong ginagawa, ang bilis-bilis ng session dito. Kulang (pa ang nagagawa) at naghahanap pa ako ng trabaho dito,” Go urged.
