
# Florida man accused of stealing SUV with 2 children inside

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:18:38+00:00**

Author: **Bob D&#39;Angelo, Cox Media Group National Content Desk**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/trending-now/florida-man-accused-of-stealing-car-with-2-children-inside/1005330351?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

LAKE WORTH, Fla. -
A South Florida man is accused of stealing an SUV with two children inside from a mobile home park, authorities said.
Wilmer Abrego, 22, of Lake Worth, was charged with grand theft auto and two counts of kidnapping, according to the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office.
According to an arrest report, Abrego saw a Toyota Highlander parked in front of a West Palm Beach mobile home park Friday night, WPTV reported. The vehicle was running and there were two children inside, the television station reported.
According to the Sheriff's Office, Abrego crashed the vehicle and tried to flee on foot before he was arrested, WPEC reported. 
There were no injuries, the Sheriff's Office said.
Deputies said Abrego admitted he stole the SUV but denied knowing there were two children inside, WPTV reported.
According to deputies, the mother of the children said she left her SUV running around 9:30 p.m. and went into her home, heard a noise and then saw her vehicle pull away, WPEC reported.
Abrego remains in the Palm Beach County Jail, ineligible to post bail because he missed a court hearing on an unrelated case, according to court records.
