
# T-Mobile will give free internet to 10 million homes in need

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:17:17+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/t-mobile-will-give-free-internet-10-million-homes-need?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: T-Mobile
      
T-Mobile will give free internet access to 10 million households in the U.S. and Puerto Rico in an effort to close the "homework gap," the disparity in achievement between students who have internet access at home and those who do not.
CEO John Legere notes that about 15% of students have no home internet service, while most teachers assign homework that requires online access. As part of the program, T-Mobile will supply a Wi-Fi hotspot for the home and an internet connection, with up to 100GB of data annuially. Participants will be able to purchase more network equipment at company cost, the price T-Mobile pays.
According to T-Mobile, there are 35 million households and more than five million of those have no home internet. While the company did not offer specifics on the equipment or the network quality being offered to Project 10 Million participants, the carrier notes that recipients of this program will benefit from the New T-Mobile's upcoming 5G network.
Implicit in the deal is the necessity of approving the merger between T-Mobile and Sprint. T-Mobile effectively puts 10 million homes on the line as a bargaining chip for approval, and the company's press release states that, "T-Mobile can make these commitments if the proposed T-Mobile and Sprint merger closes." It is not clear if T-Mobile would still be willing to help 10 million households access the internet if it does not get its way with the merger.
Unlimited with Netflix and soon 5G
T-Mobile's unlimited plan gives you talk, text, data, Wi-Fi on flights, networks abroad, and free stuff every once in a while. Soon, the carrier will launch 5G for customers with capable phones.

        Save $$$$ Pixel 4 ad shows it will be $200 off for Black Friday from the Google Store An ad was recently spotted online by a Redditor, revealing the Pixel 4 and 4 XL will receive a $200 discount that runs through December 2 for Cyber Monday.
      

        Affordable wireless T-Mobile Connect includes unlimited talk, text, and 5G access for $15/month During the first Un-Carrier event for the New T-Mobile, the company announced a $15/month “T-Mobile Connect” plan that includes unlimited talk, text, 5G access, and a high-speed data allotment that gets bigger each year.
      

        5G for all T-Mobile’s 5G network is launching on December 6 for 200 million people The “new T-Mobile” is launching its 5G network on December 6, and when it does, 200 million people will have access to the network from Day One.
      

        Great picks The Galaxy S10+ is the best T-Mobile phone for most people Wondering about the best phones T-Mobile offers? We've got you covered.
      
