
# Here’s Your Lowdown On Apple TV+, The Latest Streaming Service To Hit The Market

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:27:36+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Earp**

Original: [Junkee](https://junkee.com/apple-tv-launch/227096)

Apple TV+ is here!
Yep, Apple has waded into the streaming game with its very own platform, one stuffed with legacy titles and brand new programming.
Of course, by this stage, it’s totally understandable to be feeling a little worn out by the sheer number of streaming platforms going around. Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Stan all offer high quality content dropping at an unbelievably fast rate — even if you picked a platform, sat down tomorrow, and decided to watch every last thing on it, you’d be overwhelmed in a matter of days. We definitely have enough stuff to stream. So what, exactly, makes Apple TV+ different?
Well, let’s take a look. Here’s our rundown of Apple TV+: how much it costs, how it works, and what new shows that it offers.
Apple TV+ is retailing for $7.99 a month in Australia. As Finder notes, if you buy an Apple device, you’ll get a year’s subscription to the platform for free. And even if you don’t, as part of their launch deal, the service is offering a week for free. That gives you a pretty good incentive to sign up for a week, and see if the streaming service is right for you.
If you’re used to having a family subscription to Netflix, then don’t worry: Apple’s streaming service offers much the same kind of deal. Apple TV+ can be streamed across up to six devices simultaneously. You can also have up to six users per family subscription.
Apple TV+’s biggest drawcard is See. Starring Jason Momoa of Game of Thrones, the show boasts one helluva array of talent behind the camera. It was written by Steven Knight, probably best known for his work on the David Cronenberg film Eastern Promises, and directed by Francis Lawrence, the man who helmed three Hunger Games films.
Apple have gone all out for See. Set in a post-apocalyptic future where a mysterious illness has ravaged the sight of most human beings, the show boasts incredible production value. Imagine the exact midpoint between Game of Thrones, Mad Max, at the Jose Saramago novel Blindness and you’ll have something of a sense of what the show is like.
