
# 9 Stars Who Were Stripped Of The Captain's Armband

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:28:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/9-stars-who-were-stripped-of-the-captain-s-armband/666875)

After Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang took over the Arsenal captaincy from Granit Xhaka following the latter's fallout with the club's supporters, here are eight other high-profile players who had the captain's armband taken off them, including Samuel Eto'o and Neymar.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see Xhaka and eight other big names who had their captain's responsibilities removed, according to various sources.
        
      
Xhaka lost in his cool in front of thousands during a recent match against Crystal Place after supporters booed the midfielder upon manager Unai Emery's decision to substitute him.
In a show of defiance, the Swiss international taunted the fans, telling them to boo him even more, and walked off the field in no rush despite the fact his team were not in a winning position. Following the incident, Arsenal released a statement on Tuesday to announce that Xhaka will no longer captain the Gunners, and that Aubameyang has replaced him in the role.
The midfielder, however, is not the first player to have been stripped of a club's captaincy, with many other household names experiencing a similar fate. In what was a high-profile case, former Chelsea defender John Terry had his England armband taken away in 2010.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
The centre-back was found to have had an affair with a teammate's girlfriend, and came under massive scrutiny for his actions that were made public. He regained the armband for a short period, but had it taken away again two years later when he faced allegations of racial abuse.
Eto'o had his Cameroon captaincy taken away in 2014 after a disappointing showing at the FIFA World Cup in Brazil, and was replaced by Stephane M'Bia. Following the decision, the former FC Barcelona striker decided to immediately retire from international duty.
Off-field issues saw Neymar lose the Brazil armband officially this year, after he took over from Thiago Silva in 2014. The centre-back, ironically, was taken off skipper duty following the Selecao's embarrassing 7-1 loss to Germany in the semi-finals of the 2014 World Cup.

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
There are a few more big names who have had their armbands taken away – click through the gallery above to see all nine of them!
