
# 'Botched' doctors Paul Nassif and Terry Dubrow talk Brazilian butt lifts and the dangers of Instagram

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:28:39+00:00**

Author: **Madeline Farber**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/health/botched-doctors-paul-nassif-terry-dubrow-season-6)

Six seasons later, the stars of the beloved E! series “Botched” credit each other — and their very different personalities — for its long-running success.
Plastic surgeons Dr. Paul Nassif and Dr. Terry Dubrow joined Fox News this week to talk about the new season of their popular show, and how the opportunity to help their patients, and their decades-long friendship, has made them better doctors in the long run.

        
          SHARON OSBOURNE DESCRIBES COMPLICATIONS FROM PLASTIC SURGERY: 'I LOOKED LIKE ELVIS'
        
      
“After six seasons of doing ‘Botched,’ we are so much more experienced at doing impossible surgery than anyone could ever be because no one gets to face these difficult cases,” Dubrow said, noting he and Nassif have a “secret sauce” that makes their relationship jibe both professionally and personally.
“Obviously, I'm a goofball. He's a little more serious, although he can be pretty goofy. But at the end of the day, we're both sweet and gentle,” said Dubrow.
“I wonder if our wives would agree,” he joked. “Certainly, my wife wouldn't.”
Read on for a look at the sixth season, along with why Brazilian butt lifts are a dangerous fad and how Instagram has influenced the plastic surgery business.

        The following interview has been edited for length and clarity.  
      
Dubrow: They’ve all been pretty similar in that ‘Botched’ highlights really difficult plastic surgery as a cautionary tale. [But] this season was really unique for me; it was really challenging in that I had multiple disasters in my own surgery before I could get the patient to the place that they wanted to be. These patients were so physiologically and anatomically damaged that you had to take them to the brink of wound-healing disaster ... and then have wound problems and fix those, and then you can finalize the cosmetic portion. Some patients had one blood vessel keeping their tissue alive.
Plastic surgery has really changed in the last 12 months — a couple of very controversial things going on … changed the narrative.
