
# November 6: Time Out: Legendary Antrim U21 Football squad of the summer of '69, Sporting greats, Dates and a Quick Quiz blitz...

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/2019/11/06/news/november-6-time-out-sporting-greats-dates-and-a-quick-quiz-blitz--1757633/)


        BACK IN THE DAY
      
The Irish News, November 6 2009: Jamie Conlan’s decision to switch pro after a multi-title winning amateur career faces a first exam with a scheduled four-round debut at flyweight against Kuwait-born Anwar Alfadi at the Odyssey Arena, Belfast tonight.
He campaigns out of Sheffield and is without a win. Alfadi has drawn two of five contests.
One of the contests shared was with Belfast’s Luke Wilton over six rounds.
Wilton, who opened with three wins, is 1-2-1 in his last four and is matched with fellow novice Kevin Colgan (1-0).
Conlan’s super-middle stable mate at Breen’s Gym, Joe Rea (6-1-1-1NC), opens the show. Rea’s only loss to date was to Martin Murray in the Prizefighter series last November. His opponent is debut-maker Philip Townley.
Neil Sinclair (32-7) contests his 40th pro bout. Budapest’s Janos Petrovics (18-28) opposes.

        BIRTHDAYS
      
Johnny Giles (soccer) - former Leeds, Manchester United and Republic of Ireland midfielder, born 1940.
Kevin Pressman (soccer) - former Sheffield Wednesday goalkeeper, born 1967.
Garry Flitcroft (soccer) - former Blackburn and Manchester City midfielder, born 1972.
Conor Sammon (soccer) - Republic of Ireland striker currently playing for Falkirk, born 1986.
Ana Ivanovic (tennis) - Serbian who won the 2008 French Open, now retired, born 1987.
Jozy Altidore (soccer) - United States' former Hull and Sunderland striker, now with Toronto FC, born 1989.
Andre Schurrle (soccer) - Borussia Dortmund's Germany forward, currently on loan with Spartak Moscow, born 1990.

        QUICK QUIZ
      
1 Which country did former professional footballer Paul McGrath play for?
2 How many times did Seve Ballesteros win the British Open?
3 Who did Sri Lanka beat in the final of the 2014 T20 Cricket World Cup?
4 In what year was Kevin Moran sent off in an FA Cup final, who was he playing for and who were their opponents?
5 Who was the last non-European driver to win the F1 world title?
(See answers at bottom)

        ON THIS DAY
      
1986: Manchester United appointed Alex Ferguson as manager. He went on to become the most successful manager in English football history and was knighted for services to football after leading the club to an unprecedented treble in 1999. He retired in 2013.
1998: The Football Association fined Paul Ince for his V-sign as he was sent off in England's 2-1 Euro 2000 qualifying defeat to Sweden.
2003: Dwain Chambers was facing a minimum two-year ban from athletics after it was revealed his B sample test for designer steroid THG was positive.
2006: Paul Azinger was named United States Ryder Cup captain for the 2008 event at Valhalla in Louisville, Kentucky.
2007: Yossi Benayoun scored a hat-trick as Liverpool thumped Turkish side Besiktas 8-0 at Anfield in a Champions League group game.
2011: Hibernian sacked manager Colin Calderwood following a poor run of results. Pat Fenlon was later confirmed as his replacement.
2012: Ronnie O'Sullivan announced his decision not to play on the professional snooker tour for the season due to personal reasons.
2017: Former Italy, AC Milan and Juventus midfielder Andrea Pirlo formally announced his retirement from professional football after a trophy-laden 22-year career.
2018: England debutant Ben Foakes hit an unbeaten 87 as England recovered from 103 for five to reach stumps on 321 for eight at the end of day one of the first Test against Sri Lanka in Galle.

        SPORT ON TV
      

        Today (Wednesday, November 6)
      
SOCCER: Champions League, Red Star v Tottenham - BT Sport 2 1900; Atalanta v Man City - BT Sport 3 1915; Bayern Munich v Olympiakos - BT Sport 1 1730; Lokomotiv Moscow v Juventus - BT Sport/ESPN 1745; Real Madrid v Galatasaray - BT Sport/ESPN 2000; Europa League, Vitoria v Arsenal - BT Sport 2 1530.
BASKETBALL: NBA, Houston Rockets v Golden State Warriors - Sky Sports Main Event 0030 (Thu).
SNOOKER: Champion of Champions - ITV 4 1245 & 1845.

        Tomorrow (Thursday, November 7)
      
SOCCER: Europa League, Man Utd v Partizan - BT Sport 2 1930; Wolves v Slovan Bratislava - BT Sport/ESPN 1945.
GOLF: European Tour, Turkish Airlines Open - Sky Sports Main Event, Sky Sports Golf 0900.
SNOOKER: Champion of Champions - ITV 4 1245 & 1845.
GRIDIRON: NFL, Oakland Raiders v Los Angeles Chargers - Sky Sports Main Event, Sky Sports Action 0030 (Fri).

        QUICK QUIZ answers: 1 Republic of Ireland; 2 Three; 3 India; 4 1985, Manchester United, Everton; 5 Jacques Villeneuve.
      
