
# Aston Villa 'target' has dropped this transfer bombshell

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:46:16+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Kemble**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/aston-villa-target-dropped-transfer-17187916)

Reported Aston Villa target Alfredo Morelos has dropped a huge hint that his future could be away from Ibrox.
The Rangers striker is being strongly touted for a January move after another impressive start to the season which has seen him score 18 goals in 23 games across all competitions.
And Aston Villa are reportedly one of the sides lining up a move for the Colombian , though there is likely to be heavy competition.
With January approaching, transfer talk is beginning to intensify, and Morelos himself has added fuel to the fire.
He told Colombian radio station Blu Radio: “So far there is nothing official.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
"There is a lot of speculation of teams things I've read on Twitter and stuff, but there's been nothing concrete, but if there is then I will let you know.
"I just need to continue doing things to the best of my ability and we will see now in the winter transfer window if there’s the chance to make a bigger move, to a much better and more competitive league.
"It would be good for me to keep improving, both for my game and my statistics to keep doing things the best I can."
