
# The Austerity Of Many Worlds

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **John Farrell**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/johnfarrell/2019/11/03/the-austerity-of-many-worlds/)

According to Cal Tech physicist Sean Carroll in his excellent new book, Something Deeply Hidden, so far, quantum mechanics has worked precisely because scientists have been forced to just ‘shut up and calculate’, even though the underlying philosophy of the whole field requires making a special allowance for the human beings who conduct physical measurements.Human observers are not themselves part of the quantum system being measured, according to the textbook account, and this is understandably considered a failing in the view of many physicists, writes Carroll.
When you use quantum mechanics to predict how a quantum system will evolve–the outcome of the experiment depends crucially on the role of the experimenter: how the experimenter sets up the test and what it is they wish to measure, whether it’s the position or momentum of an elementary particle, or whether a single photon will go right or left when passing through a beam splitter.
As Sabine Hossenfelder points out in her video and on her blog, this ‘measurement problem’ is not compatible with reductionism, the operating philosophical methodology of science. This issue has irked many scientists, including Einstein, from the very beginning of the field. It was considered a deep flaw that quantum mechanics no longer allowed a description of reality independent of the observer.
In the 1950s, the young man who came up with what has become known as The Many Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics, saw a way around it. Hugh Everett was born in 1930 and was so brilliant in mathematics he got a fellowship from the National Science Foundation that allowed him to do his graduate work at Princeton where he decided to focus on quantum mechanics to get his PhD–although he had no interest in an academic or research career (about which more below).
As Carroll, writes, Everett’s view “arises from a fundamental annoyance with all of the special rules about measurements that are presented as part of the standard textbook quantum recipe, and suggests instead that there is just a single kind of quantum evolution.’ And this involves simply making the wave function the be-all and end-all of the formalism of the theory.
As Hossenfelder puts it, Everett’s breakthrough was to suggest doing away with the problem of the quantum measurement “by just saying there isn’t such a thing as wavefunction collapse. Instead, many worlds people say, every time you make a measurement, the universe splits into several parallel worlds, one for each possible measurement outcome. This universe splitting is also sometimes called branching.”
The price we pay for this vastly increased elegance of theoretical formalism, Carroll writes, “is that the theory describes many copies of what we think of as ‘the universe,’ each slightly different, but each truly real in some sense. Whether the benefit is worth the cost is an issue about which people disagree. (It is.)”
Many Worlds is attractive to Carroll and others because it helps restore a view of objective reality as entirely observer independent. There’s no need to update or ‘collapse’ the wave function once a measurement has been made–but the catch is you have to accept that there is a separate reality for every possible path or probability right out of the wave function itself, many worlds indeed.
For different reasons Hossenfelder and physicists like Steve Barr at University of Delaware find this problematic.
In their view, the fatal problem with Many Worlds approach, is that there is no way to relate the wave functions or the equations of the theory to probabilities. But, since the only thing that quantum mechanics predicts are probabilities, Everett’s approach does not predict anything new.
But Carroll argues that adopting the Many Worlds approach can make it more fruitful for scientists to tackle larger problems such as how Einstein’s spacetime can emerge naturally from quantum mechanics. General Relativity is not compatible with quantum physics and this has been considered a major problem. Carroll argues that adopting the Many Worlds approach could help point the science in new directions.
Indeed, he argues that the Many Worlds idea flows naturally from the idea that the entire universe itself has its own wave function. But I don't think this follows: because a particular system under investigation has a wave function—it doesn't therefore follow that the whole universe does too. That seems too much of a leap in logic.
That said, Carroll argues with a healthy restlessness that makes his book more interesting than so many others in the quantum physics genre.
I will say I wish the author had spent more time discussing Everett himself–because it’s hard to shake the suspicion that for Everett, the entire Many Worlds approach was devised as a brilliant prank. He needed to get his PhD before taking a lucrative job with the Pentagon, after which he never looked back. He had no interest in pursuing research in quantum physics as a career or in academia, let alone doing more work on Many Worlds itself.
On a personal level, he was by all accounts an appalling human being. A womanizer who constantly cheated on his emotionally needy wife, he neglected both his children, one of whom, the older daughter, committed suicide at the age of 39, over a decade after Everett drank himself to death. (See Peter Byrne’s excellent biography, The Many Worlds of Hugh Everett.)
Of course, a scientific theory should stand or fall on its own merits, but from a humanist perspective, that the Many Worlds Interpretation was possibly the product of a mathematically brilliant sociopath doesn’t inspire.
