
# Marvel’s Hawkeye Series Was Originally Conceived as a Movie

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:10:24+00:00**

Author: **Jake Abbate**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/471324-marvels-hawkeye-series-was-originally-conceived-as-a-movie)

Jeremy Renner will finally get his own headlining vehicle in the MCU when Marvel’s Hawkeye series drops on Disney+ in 2021. Fans have been clamoring for a spinoff featuring Renner’s take on Clint Barton for years. However, Marvel once had much bigger plans for the avenging archer. It turns out that Hawkeye was initially going to headline his own feature film.
Kevin Feige revealed that Marvel Studios’ Hawkeye plans changed during a recent interview with Bloomberg (via IndieWire). While discussing Marvel’s upcoming slate of shows for Disney+, Feige shared that pitching Renner on the idea of a Hawkeye TV series wasn’t as easy as pitching Tom Hiddleston, Elizabeth Olsen, and Paul Bettany on their respective small-screen projects. Apparently, the studio already promised Renner a Hawkeye movie, and Feige was afraid he’d be disappointed.
Fortunately, Renner was onboard almost immediately: “He totally got it and said, ‘Let’s do it, ’” said Feige.
Renner made his MCU debut in Thor in 2011. Some moviegoers have complained that Hawkeye has been reduced to playing second fiddle to other Avengers. Marvel has certainly given him more screen time over the years. But the upcoming series will at long last give him the spotlight he deserves. The show may also serve as Renner’s franchise swan song. Barton’s protege, Kate Bishop, will also appear as the next character to take on the Hawkeye mantle. Marvel is reportedly circling Hailee Steinfeld to play this Kate. However, Steinfeld has recently cast doubt on whether that deal will go forward.
Would you have preferred to see Jeremy Renner’s Hawkeye star in his own film rather than a TV show? Tell us what you think in the comment section below!

        Recommended Reading: Hawkeye Vol. 1: My Life as a Weapon
      

        
          We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program. This affiliate advertising program provides a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
        
      
