
# Sozzled driver crashed motor outside busy Paisley school

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:34:35+00:00**

Author: **Ron Moore, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/ron-moore/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/sozzled-driver-crashed-motor-outside-20807403)

A drink-driver was three times over the limit when he crashed outside a busy Paisley school during the morning rush hour.
William Parker, 29, pranged his red Ford Focus into a blue Daewoo Kalos near to Gleniffer High as children were walking to class.
Parker has been slammed over the “horrendous potential” for danger to school kids and residents in Amochrie Road, Foxbar.

        
          
            PAISLEY DAILY EXPRESS: Live news as it happens
          
        
      
In court, Procurator Fiscal Depute Pamela Brady said a motorist reported Parker to police because she had concerns about his driving.
Cops were out looking for him on March 5 when they came across the accident next to the high school around 8.30am.
The prosecutor explained: “Her attention was drawn to the erratic manner in which the vehicle was being driven.
“She observed the motor vehicle on a number of occasions to drive across the central line and onto the opposite carriageway.
“This caused oncoming vehicles to manoeuvre out of the way.
“She was so concerned about the driving, and had concerns the driver was under the influence, that she contacted police.”
The court heard police officers were searching for Parker’s red Ford Focus in Foxbar when they stumbled on the crash.

        READ MORE NEWS:
      
Ms Brady said: “Officers conducted a search and, while at Amochrie Road, they became aware of the presence of the motor vehicle.
“It had collided with another vehicle.
“The accused got out of the vehicle following the crash and provided details.
“Police officers who spoke to the accused had concerns regarding his demeanour.”
Parker, who blew a roadside breath test, was taken to Govan Police Station where he was found to have 69 micrograms of alcohol per 100 millilitres of breath when the prescribed limit is 22 micrograms.
On Friday, construction worker Parker, of Kennilworth Way in Foxbar, pleaded guilty to a charge of driving without due care and attention for other road users, driving on the opposing carriageway causing other motorists to take evasive action, and causing damage to another vehicle.

        READ MORE NEWS:
      
He also admitted driving while the proportion of alcohol on his breath exceeded the legal limit.
A defence agent said Parker feared he may be jailed as he was previously convicted for drink-driving.
Sheriff Colin Pettigrew told Parker : “It is clear to me that, affected by the amount of alcohol you had in your system from the previous evening, you made the conscious decision to drive.
“You were clearly heavily under the influence of alcohol, and not fit to do so, when another witness reported you to police.
“Then you were involved in a crash. Where and when that incident happened, adjacent to the high school and at the time it occurred, had horrendous possibilities.”
He handed Parker 270 hours of unpaid work to be completed within 12 months and banned him from the road for five years.
