
# Bayern Munich sack Niko Kovac following Eintracht Frankfurt thrashing

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:58:08+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/breaking-bayern-munich-sack-niko-20804081)

Bayern Munich have sacked head coach Niko Kovac.
The Croatian - who led Die Roten to the German league and cup double last season - was dismissed on Sunday, after meeting CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, president Uli Hoeness and sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic.
His departure comes just over 24 hours after Bayern were thrashed 5-1 by his former club, Eintracht Frankfurt, on Saturday.
That result was only Bayern's second defeat in the Bundesliga this season in 10 games.
They currently sit fourth in the table, with 18 points - four points behind leaders Borussia Monchengladbach - but have already conceded 16 goals, more than anyone else in the top half.
After the loss, Kovac had called his Bayern stars in for training at Sabener Strasse on Sunday.
But after they departed, he met with the club's top brass, where his fate was sealed.
Following that, a club statement was released, in which Rummenigge declared: "The performance of our team in recent weeks and the results have shown us that there was need for action.
"Uli Hoeness, Hasan Salihamidžić and I have had an open and serious conversation with Niko on this basis on Sunday, with the consensual result that Niko is no longer coach of FC Bayern.
"We all regret this development. I would like to thank Niko Kovac on behalf of FC Bayern for his work, especially for winning the Doubles last season. "
Kovac, 48, who played for Bayern during his playing career, said: "I think this is the right decision for the club at the moment.
"The results, and also the way we last played, made me come to that decision.
"My brother Robert and I thank Bayern for the last one and a half years.
During this time, our team has won the championship, the DFB Cup and the Supercup. It was a good time. I wish the club and the team all the best. "
Assistant manager Hansi Flick , who enjoyed success during 14 years as part of the national team set-up - both as assistant boss to Jogi Low and DFB sporting director - will take temporary charge.
Bayern meet Olympiacos in the Champions League in midweek, before facing Borussia Dortmund in Der Klassiker next weekend.
Salihamidzic added: "I now expect a positive development from our players and absolute motivation to achieve our goals for this season."
The last time Bayern elected to sack a manager mid-season, Carlo Ancelotti bit the bullet and Jupp Heynckes returned for a caretaker spell - leading them to the title.
Bayern haven't failed to win their domestic league since being pipped by Jurgen Klopp's Borussia Dortmund in 2012.
