
# Blom Opens Up On His Chiefs Debut

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:23:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/kaizer-chiefs-njabulo-blom-enjoyed-his-amakhosi-debut-1/666505)

Having been thrust into the limelight last month as one of Kaizer Chiefs’ brightest young lights, Njabulo Blom knows who to thank for his early success in Amakhosi colours…

        Read: A Message From Kaizer Motaung…
      
Blom, who is still just 19, has been on the brink of the Glamour Boys’ first team for some time now, following Ernst Middendorp’s decision to promote him from the youth setup back in March, but he had to wait seven months before he was able to make his debut.
The talented teenager was thrown into the starting XI against Golden Arrows at the start of October as the side battled with some injuries to other players, but the versatile defender showed his mettle as they came away with a clean sheet in a 2-0 victory.
Speaking to Chiefs’ official website about that encounter, ‘Stoppa’ says that it was his teammates that helped him through, explaining, “The game against Arrows was the most challenging for me because it was my first professional game. I was nervous, but the other guys helped me out and got me to settle in well. It was the kind of game which could have made me or broke me.
“Thanks to God my performance was good. We won and it has motivated me and helped me believe in my abilities.”
While it was the clash with Arrows that gave him his debut, it could be argued that it was the 2-0 victory over Mamelodi Sundowns that truly introduced him to the Amakhosi faithful, with the teenager putting in a fine performance in one of their most impressive victories in recent years.

        Read: Chiefs In Talks With Potential New Signing!
      
Now, with Kearyn Baccus and Reeve Frosler out injured, Blom is expected to feature in his first Soweto Derby against Orlando Pirates tomorrow afternoon in another fixture that will prove just what the highly-rated youngster is made of.
