
# Kenya’s new population stands at 47.6 million: census report

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:27:49+00:00**

Author: **LABAN WANAMBISI**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/kenyas-new-population-stands-at-47-6-million-census-report/)

 

        NAIROBI, Kenya Nov 4 – Kenya’s new population stands at 47,564,296 following the recent census exercise that was conducted in August.
      
ADVERTISEMENT
The last census conducted in 2009 placed Kenya’s population at 37.7 million.
In the 2019 census report, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) listed 23,548,056 men and 24,014,716 women.
The intersex people who were counted for the first time were found to be 1,524.
The report was presented to President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi on Monday by KNBS Director General Zachary Mwangi.
“The population has grown to 47.6 million in 2019 from 37.7 million in 2009,” Mwangi said, “Females accounted for 50.5 percent of the total population.”
President Kenyatta said the census report will help the government re-align its development strategies with the new data.
“I am happy to note that this is the first census to be conducted under the new Constitution and was fully funded by my government. We employed the use of the new technology and the devices used were assembled locally,” he said and “directed all ministries, departments and all arms of government and development partners to utilise these results,” he said.
Post Views: 255
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
