
# Dynamo-style Plymouth magician, 17, has success on the cards

Published at: **2019-11-04T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **William Telford**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/whats-on-news/dynamo-style-plymouth-magician-17-3494260)

Success is well and truly on the cards for Plymouth teenager David Rixon - he’s starting a business teaching magic tricks.
The 17-year-old business student is also an accomplished magician, able to pull off dozens of stunning close-up tricks using playing cards, rings and coins.
After 10 years of daily practise, David, from Keyham, is so good he’s taken the leap from just performing for family and friends to creating a business called Ocean Ticks.
It means he’s available to perform at parties and events, and also will offer master-classes in card manipulation for anyone who wants to impress their pals and relations.
But ultimately, he just loves the thrill of pulling out spell-binding card tricks for an audience.
“I just like to see people’s faces when they see something they don’t think is humanly possible,” he said. “People say to me ‘do that again’, and I do, and they still don’t get how I did it. Some tricks look like real magic.”
David likes what he calls “real life magic”, the type performed by his heroes David Blaine and Dynamo, which relies on sleight of hand and devious dexterity.
“I don’t like it when people use CGI or camera trickery,” he said. “And things like sawing someone in half. I could never do that. I like close-up magic.”
David is studying for a Level 3 diploma in business with Achievement Training, and is aiming for a career in banking.
That’s if prestidigitation doesn’t take over.
“I do want to go into banking, but see myself doing that and then focusing on magic, and maybe opening my own outlet, a shop, with an area where I can teach,” he said.
He said some magicians charge up to £70 an hour for a lesson – lucrative business.
David is starting by asking just £10, and might even throw in a free pack cards, and said: “I can teach people a lot in just an hour.”
He said his target audience is 11-year-olds and older, as small children can be a bit baffled by card trickery.
David became besotted with cardistry when he was just seven years old, watching masters of the mysterious David Blaine and Dynamo on TV.
“They got me intrigued,” he said. “By the time I was 11 I was more into it, knew more about it, and now I’m interested in the science behind it.
“I started with cards. Most people start with cups and balls but I skipped that and worked on different types of shuffles.”
David explained that the means to mastery of the magical all begins with being able to shuffle and control the pack.
“There are lots of kinds of shuffle,” he said. “Most people can do the overhand shuffle, but there is also the ripple shuffle, the one-handed shuffle, the Hindu shuffle, and more.”
He said once the shuffles and tricks are mastered, it’s a matter of building speed.
“I want to do birthday parties and special events, and will teach people too, not just the tricks but the shuffles, where it all started from,” he said.
“I practise every day, it could be 10 minutes, or an hour, it depends on what I’m trying to learn. I used to go on YouTube and watch magic tricks, like on Britain’s Got Talent, and watch what the magician is doing, then slow it down and see how they did it, so I’m actually self taught.”
Business Live's Plymouth journalist is William Telford, business editor at Plymouth Live. William has more than a decade's experience reporting on the business scene in the Ocean City.
To contact William:
Email: william.telford@reachplc.com
Phone: 01752 293116
Facebook: www.facebook.com/william.telford.5473
Twitter: @WTelfordHerald
To sign up for Business Live's daily newsletters click here   
David knows about 30 different card tricks, but there are more he is planning to learn, and others too.
“I’ve started using rings and I’m thinking of getting into coins,” he said. “I want to see what I can do with them.”
David can be contacted through the Ocean Tricks website here and its Facebook page here.
