
# Here's why Ayushmann Khurrana says 'Bala' is the toughest film of his career

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:56:38+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/heres-why-ayushmann-khurrana-says-bala-is-the-toughest-film-of-his-career/articleshow/71956082.cms)

With seven straight box office hits to his name, Ayushmann Khurrana is currently one of the most sought after actors in B-town. All set to continue his dream run at the box office, Ayushmann will hit the screens with his upcoming film 'Bala.' The movie will see him donning yet another unusual role, playing a prematurely balding guy this time. 'Bala' will release tomorrow and the trailer of the film promises a laugh riot.
In a recent interview, Ayushmann revealed that 'Bala' is one of the best scripts he has worked upon. The actor said that the film is based on a common subject which hasn't been explored in the past. That is why the film is very unique. The 'Badhaai Ho' actor further added that almost 50% of males above the age of 30 struggle with the problem and its about self-discovery and killing your complexes. That is the reason why the actor believes the topic is very relatable and therefore he chose it.
Further speaking about the film, Ayushmann revealed that 'Bala' is also the toughest film of his life. The actor said that it is just not only the emotional attachment to the script but also the physical part that happened during the shoot. Ayushmann revealed that wearing three layers of prosthetics on his head and that too under the sun was very difficult and physically taxing for him.
Directed by Amar Kaushik, 'Bala' is a film set in Kanpur that revolves around a man suffering from premature balding and the lack of confidence and societal pressure which runs with it. The film also features Bhumi Pednekar and Yami Gautam in lead roles.
