
# Lady Gaga Will Star in a Movie About the Murder of Gucci Founder's Grandson

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:17:00+00:00**

Author: **Savannah Walsh**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/movies-tv/a29668199/lady-gaga-gucci-murder-movie/?utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social-media)

Lady Gaga has found her follow-up film to 2018's A Star Is Born. Variety reports that the Oscar winner will star in a movie about the murder of Gucci founder Guccio's grandson, Maurizio Gucci.
Ridley Scott (Gladiator, The Martian) will direct and produce the film, which casts Gaga as Patrizia Reggiani, the ex-wife of Maurizio. In 1998, Reggiani was convicted of ordering a hit man to murder her ex-husband, who was an heir to the Gucci empire, on his office steps, per The New York Times. The couple shared two daughters together before Maurizio allegedly left Reggiani for a younger woman. According to Times reporting, Reggiani became known by the Italian press as "The Black Widow" during the high-profile trial. She served 18 years of a 29-year prison sentence before being released in 2016 for good behavior.
Per Variety, the movie will be written by Roberto Bentivegna and based on the book, The House of Gucci: A Sensational Story of Murder, Madness, Glamour, and Greed by Sara Gay Forden.
This will be the first major acting project for Gaga since her star turn in the Bradley Cooper-directed movie, A Star Is Born. At the 2019 Oscars, the musician won an Oscar for Best Original Song for writing, "Shallow," alongside Mark Ronson. Gaga was also nominated that night in the Best Actress category. Since then, she's kept busy by launching her own makeup line, Haus Laboratories, and performing during her Las Vegas residency.
