
# Danny Heavron among recalls to new-look Derry squad

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:33:00+00:00**

Author: **Cahair O&#39;Kane**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/gaafootball/2019/11/04/news/heavron-among-recalls-to-new-look-derry-squad-1756177/)

DANNY Heavron, Niall Holly and Gareth McKinless are among those who are part of an enlarged Derry panel for pre-season.
New Oak Leaf boss Rory Gallagher has trawled the club scene, attending games across the grades over the last eight weeks, and has pulled together a strong squad off which to build.
Heavron had been Derry's best player before being dropped ahead of the 2018 season by then-new manager Damian McErlain.
Eoghan Rua midfielder Holly's inclusion is a significant boost too, given his form for the club and Derry's dearth of natural midfielders.
His clubmates Ruairi Mooney and Colm McGoldrick will have another go at it, as will Slaughtneil playmaker Christopher Bradley. 
Niall Loughlin is also included after returning from Australia, while Oran Armstrong (Claudy) and Eoghan Duffy (Foreglen), whose brother Oisin played championship football for Derry, are called up after impressive campaigns in the intermediate ranks. 
All of the established members of last year's panel have also been retained, although they will play the National League with Enda Lynn. He, Jason Rocks and Michael McEvoy are all sidelined with recent cruciate ligament injuries, while Paul McNeill is set for an extended spell out as his shoulder injury continues to give bother.
All in, Gallagher will initially carry a panel of somewhere in the region of 40 men.
Among the promising younger call ups are Magherafelt 'keeper Odhrán Lynch (cousin of former captain Mark), Shea Downey, Alex Doherty and twins Lorcan and Oisin McWilliams.
