
# Nuala McCann: 'The ghosts of our yesterdays whirl about us'

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nuala McCann**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/lifestyle/2019/11/04/news/nuala-mccann-the-ghosts-of-our-yesterdays-whirl-about-us--1752451/)

IT'S a quilt that Dolly Parton could sing a song about. There'd be 10 in a bed and granny's old blanket – dotted with the blood from a finger pierced by a sharp sewing needle. But it would wrap us all up in cosy love.
Our quilt has its patchwork credentials firmly planted in Belfast and it keeps our oxters toasty, the way we like it. It's hard to imagine that bright Spring day when I whipped the quilt off the bed for the last time, kissed last winter goodbye and boiled the quilt at 60 degrees for two hours then watched it flap on our line in the breeze before consigning it to the cupboard.
But that was then. Now, the house is in mourning for Spring and Summer. The words of our mothers come home to haunt us. Suddenly, you understand their true joy in "a good drying day". You want to walk out to the line and bury your nose in the blue whiteness of the sheets – a ghost of a woman in a white, just for a minute.
But we have a winter to struggle through before such days come again. We mourn every step of the way.
No more barefoot in the kitchen – the lino is chill underfoot. No more tee-shirts – the linen tops and dresses go into storage with a nip of something to scare off the moths. No more small birds doing high-wire tricks on the washing line. And girl, you're fooling yourself with the fake tan.
The big black coat is resurrected and you lumber off for a winter walk like a grizzly bear. Next door's cat is huddled under the car – he waits for our door to open then dashes up to get fed. But he's not sticking around to play hunt in the garden. He's nobody's fool.
The car windows weep with condensation at the coming of winter. "We're all in this together," the car groans – it takes a little coaxing to burst into life.
The AA man may soon be my new bestie.
Down at the slimming group, our lady of the scales serves up a dollop of bad news. "One and a half pounds on," she says. I'm alarmed. But I'm no fool. Was it the fatted duck? The supper of muffin and cheese? Last night's wine purely for medicinal purposes. Or was it that bag of chocolate cookies I bought on the way home from work and hid in my handbag.
All my secret sins come back to haunt me.
The slimmers are great – but I've lost heart. I've found my elastic jeans at the back of the cupboard, my belly has slumped and my bum favours the builder's look.
It's winter in our bones too. Getting up is a chore. "Morning: slow start, cold... model needed topping up throughout the day," sighs my husband. It was an old and brilliant ad featuring a man struggling to get up and get going in winter.
But I can't remember what the ad was for? Weetabix? The AA? A new car? That is lost in the mists of time.
So we give ourselves the gift of a winter walk. The light is beautiful. The sky is mackerel. The trees in their autumn beauty take your breath away. Far off in the distance, Napoleon slumbers on Cavehill. Pick out his tricorn hat, the point of his nose, his long coat – see it as if for the first time.
Later, driving down from the north along the motorway, the city lights sparkle like jewels in the black velvet darkness. How beautiful, you think, how beautiful.
And somewhere on a distant hill top, a druid hunkers in the shadows of a cave.
He coaxes a flame from a flint, sets a bonfire ablaze and carries a blazing torch out into the night. All around him on distant hills, fires are lit and dark shadows gather around them. And the ghosts of our yesterdays whirl about us.
It's Halloween, All Souls, November, the month of the dead. We are haunted by beautiful memories... for those we loved have never really gone away.
