
# Pokémon Sword and Shield’s full Pokédex seems to have leaked

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:29:03+00:00**

Author: **Patricia Hernandez**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/4/20947933/pokemon-sword-shield-full-pokedex-cut-pokemon-nintendo-switch-game-freak)

Pokémon Sword and Shield aren’t out until November 15, but the internet is buzzing with leaked information from the games already. Beyond the final starter evolutions, fans are also sharing lists that purport to show the full extent of the overall roster.
[Warning: The following contains major Pokémon Sword and Shield spoilers.]
We already know that Sword and Shield won’t contain every single Pokémon in existence — that fact has become a huge controversy for players who have diligently collected and transferred every creature across games. But, if the giant leak on ResetEra is to be believed, we now know the exact extent of the cuts. According to the existing thread, which has posted believable images of creatures within the game, there are 400 total monsters in the compendium.
In terms of additions, ResetEra user Atheerios shared a graphic that appears to showcase all the new pals we can capture, as well as the typing.
As for returning faces, there’s a different thread on ResetEra that catalogues who is back, and who isn’t. Green denotes Pokémon still in the game, while dark green signals that creature has a new Galarian variant. White backgrounds, meanwhile, pinpoint Pokémon who have been cut.
A few of my favorites, like Dragonite and Elekid, aren’t on the list, which makes me a little sad. But at the same time, there’s also plenty of cool new monsters to get excited about. Plus, some of the new designs, like Morgrem, are excellent. Others, like Eiscue, are bizarre ... but hey, at least they’re memorable.
Speaking on the creative decision to limit the new Pokédex, Sword and Shield producer Junichi Masuda noted that it was a tricky balance during development.
“We need to be able to prioritize new gameplay ideas,” Masuda told Polygon during an interview. “We need to be able to find a way to balance the right number of Pokémon and also still introduce new ways for players to enjoy the game, new gameplay ideas to keep the series fresh and enjoyable far into the future.”

        Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see 
        
          our ethics policy
        
        .
      
