
# Mourinho Heaps Praise On Mbappe

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:37:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/ligue-1/jose-mourinho-heaps-praise-on-kylian-mbappe/666771)

Although Jose Mourinho is perhaps more known for various controversies, the former Manchester United manager, who is currently without a job, has now compared Kylian Mbappe to arguably the greatest striker of all time.

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
The 20-year-old Paris Saint-Germain superstar has continued his rapid rise in Europe after breaking through at Monaco four seasons ago.
Mourinho was full of praise for the 2019 Ballon d'Or nominee in a recent interview, saying that while he is a unique player, he does have shades of Ronaldo Nazario about his game.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
"(Mbappe's) playing style, what he can do in a football game, it's really special," he told Telefoot.
"And you have to be really special and have unique qualities (in football).
"When you look at the specificity of his qualities, he is really different from other players.
"The only player that comes to my memory (to compare) is Ronaldo Nazario.
"They are players with unique qualities. When you play against them, you are afraid."

        
          The Top Goalscorers This Season So Far
        
      
Mbappe has played 10 matches for the French giants so far this season, scoring nine goals and assisting a further four strikes along the way.
