
# Wolves transfer targets identified as Liverpool and Manchester United lock in on key signing - Premier League rumours

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:51:00+00:00**

Author: **Steve Wollaston, https://www.facebook.com/stevewollastonjournalist/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/wolves-transfer-rumour-liverpool-manchester-17117663)

The latest news in the world of Wolves transfers and elsewhere in the Premier League.
The club are rumoured to be monitoring Karlan Grant and Ben Davies ahead of the January transfer window, according to reports. 
Huddersfield Town striker Grant and Preston North End defender Ben Davies have both been stand-out performers for their respective sides in the Championship this season.
  Grant, 22, has netted nine goals in 15 games for the Terriers who dispensed with the services of Jan Siewert in August before appointing Danny Cowley as manager. 
According to the Sun, Wolves are keeping close tabs on his performances ahead of a potential approach when the window re-opens. 
  
26-year-old Davies has been an ever-present in defence for Preston, who have stormed to the top of the table under Alex Neil. 
The Express report that Wolves are preparing a £10m bid for him in January having scouted him on several occasions recently. 
Nuno Espirito Santo will be without Willy Boly for an extended period after the centre-back had surgery for a fractured fibula. 
  
Wolves chairman Jeff Shi spoke about the upcoming window in a recent interview. Asked whether Fosun are willing to dig deep, he told wolves.co.uk: “Of course. We are always ready to invest. Don’t worry about it. If we need to strengthen the squad of course we have the capacity to do that in January. 
“The philosophy of the club is to do the right deal. We don’t want to do something wrong and spend some money on a player who never plays well. You can see some examples at other clubs so I hope we can avoid that.”
Manchester United are ready to hijack Liverpool’s bid to bring German striker Timo Werner to the Premier League.
United, who drew a blank in defeat at Bournemouth , are ready to make a move for 23-year-old RB Leipzig hit-man in the January transfer window in an effort to beat their Anfield rivals to one of Europe’s most highly-rated finishers.
Werner signed a new four-year contract with Leipzig in the summer when his dream move to Bayern Munich failed to materialise.
But the agreement included a buy-out clause of just £27million.
And after failing to replace Romelu Lukaku after allowing Belgian – who had topped the Old Trafford goal charts in each of the previous two seasons to move to Inter Milan – Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has a weakness in his squad that needs addressing.
Manchester United are reportedly weighing up a move for Inter Milan striker Lautaro Martinez.
The 22-year-old has been in good form for the Nerrazurri so far this season, netting seven times in 13 appearances, while also banging in a hat-trick for Argentina.
United are short of options up front, having sold Romelu Lukaku to the Serie A club in the summer, as well as loaning them Alexis Sanchez.
The Guardian report that United are considering making use of their recent business relations by moving for Martinez.
However they add that United will have to fork out up to £100 million to prise him from the San Siro.

        Full story
      
RB Salzburg are yet to receive an offer from Manchester United, or any other club, for highly rated striker Erling Braut Haaland - according to the club's sporting director.
Teenager Haaland has earned the attention of United, Real Madrid , Juventus and a whole host of other of Europe's biggest sides following an eye-catching start to the season.
Haaland, the son of former Manchester City ace Alf-Inge, has netted six goals in three matches in the Champions League to go alongside 12 strikes, and six assists, in 11 league appearances.
The 19-year-old has therefore been heavily mentioned on the rumour mill, with reports Juve are set to offer £35million or other claims that United are heading the queue for a swoop.
William Saliba is set to link up with Arsenal in the summer - but Saint-Etienne manager Claude Puel has questioned club bosses for their decision to sell the young defender.
Saliba put pen to paper with the Gunners in July in a £27million deal which saw him immediately head back to France on loan for the season.
Whilst injuries have limited the centre-back to just six appearances this season, he has made a major impact and shown his class.
It has led to ex-Leicester boss Puel labelling him their best player despite being just 18-years-old.
And he branded their decision to sell him to Arsenal before his arrival as "short-term" and "reactionary".
Using the Saliba transfer as an example to question their business model, Puel told L'Equipe: |It’s done, adopted and I’ve got nothing to say because it helped perform.
"Saint-Etienne have held their rank these past few years. Finishing fourth is a great result. Work was done in the short-term.
"Is this model viable? I don’t think it can make the club a success. Rather than buying a ready-made player, I’d rather we buy him to develop him and help him grow.
"It’s hard to accept that we sell our best player, a young kid, to help fill the coffers.
"When you have to sell your gems to round up the budget and then do short term deals to fill in the gaps, you’re being reactionary."
