
# Rodrygo And Valverde Complete Zinedine Zidane’s Decided XI: A Real Madrid Versus Real Betis Preview

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Tom Sanderson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/tomsanderson/2019/11/02/rodrygo-and-valverde-complete-zinedine-zidanes-decided-xi-a-real-madrid-versus-real-betis-preview/)

Ahead of Real Madrid’s hosting of Real Betis at the Bernabeu, the Spanish press reported on Friday how coach Zinedine Zidane has finally found his preferred first XI. With Vinicius Jr failing to convince, Gareth Bale often crocked and Luka Modric recently injured while showing signs of winding down at 34 years of age, the Frenchman fancies Brazilian wonderkid Rodrygo for the right side of his front line and Federico Valverde in midfield.
The revelation was made in a piece by AS yesterday titled ‘Zidane Has a Team’ and made the front cover of its newspaper, as reproduced below.
Different to last time out - a 5-0 thrashing of bottom-ranked Leganes - Rodrygo’s inclusion has not come at the expense of fellow teenager Vinicius Jr, who has made the 19-man list ahead of Lucas Vazquez.
Between the sticks, an improving Thibaut Courtois will look to keep his third consecutive clean sheet with a front line of Marcelo, Raphael Varane, Sergio Ramos and Dani Carvajal helping him complete the task at hand.
In midfield, Valverde, as mentioned, is expected to stand alongside Casemiro and Toni Kroos while Rodrygo joins Pichichi contender Karim Benzema and Eden Hazard up top.
To keep the heat on leaders FC Barcelona, whom they trail by a point, Los Blancos must beat a Real Betis side that is struggling in 16th but has history on its side in recent encounters between these two at the Bernabeu.
Reports in Spain emerging last week that top brass want to make their home ground the ‘fortress’ it once was prior to a string of embarrassing defeats over the past couple of seasons, the Seville-based visitors have triumphed in their last two visits to the Spanish capital to face the 13-times European champions.
While Betis have only one victory in their previous five games, it came in a thrilling midweek over Celta Vigo where right-back Emerson scored before Nabil Fekir claimed a 90th minute winner.
The former on loan from Barcelona and receiving his maiden call-up to the Brazilian senior national team to face South Korea and Argentina this month, the latter is well known to compatriot Zidane as a fellow World Cup winner.
In his press conference yesterday, Zidane was incensed by suggestions that Uruguayan Valverde, who has heavily-impressed in Modric’s absence, is a ‘low cost’ Paul Pogba in light of Madrid having failed to land the Manchester United playmaker in the summer.
Also grilled on his rotation policy, the under-pressure tactician took umbridge to being accussed of having a 'Plan A’ or a 'Plan B'. ‘Every three days I have to leave out quality players. I count on everyone,’ explained the club legend. ‘It's something that bothers me a lot. I try to choose my best players, but I can change things. I don't like being told that I have an A, B or C team. It's not true.’
Probed on Eden Hazard’s lack of goals, Zidane expressed his content with the summer signing from Chelsea.  ‘He sees a lot of things that others don't see so sometimes he passes instead of shooting,’ it was said. ‘Everyone wants to see him score, but I'm seeing him play better every day.’
Admitting that consistency is what his team seek, Zidane added that ‘Every game we try to keep a clean sheet’ and that on Saturday his team has ‘another chance to play a great game.’
