
# How Much Does Anheuser-Busch InBev Depend On Asia-Pacific For Its Growth?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/01/how-much-does-anheuser-busch-inbev-depend-on-asia-pacific-for-its-growth/)

Asia-Pacific has maintained its position as the fastest growing revenue segment for Anheuser-Busch InBev (NYSE: BUD). Over the last two years, while Anheuser-Busch’s total revenue (shows BUD’s key revenue components) increased by $0.67 billion between 2016 and 2018, the APAC division saw its revenues increase by $1.22 billion during the same period. Can Asia-Pacific continue to command the kind of significance it recently has seen? To understand this, please refer to the Trefis interactive dashboard – What Is The Importance of Asia Pacific In Anheuser-Busch InBev’s Growth? In addition, here is more Consumer Staples data.Division Overview

        What is on Offer?
      

        Who Pays?
      

        Competition?
      

        Segment Revenue Trend
      
To understand the performance of other operating segments, refer to the following Trefis analysis- Anheuser-Busch InBev Revenues: How Does Anheuser-Busch InBev Make Money?

        Volume Share
      

        Revenue Share
      

        Profitability
      

        Conclusion
      
The company’s management expects the APAC division to be the primary growth and value driver for the company, due to which it recently listed its APAC operation on the Hong Kong stock exchange, which fetched the company about $5 billion. The segment is likely to be the company’s fastest growing division, with its improving profitability helping it to catch up with the company’s high margins.
As per Anheuser-Busch’s Valuation by Trefis, we have a price estimate of $103 per share for BUD’s stock.
 
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
