
# Report | No offers yet for Erling Braut Haaland, says RB Salzburg sporting director

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:18:48+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/04/report-no-offers-yet-for-erling-braut-haaland-says-rb-salzburg-sporting-director?utm_medium=rss)


        RB Salzburg’s sporting director Christoph Freund has confirmed that the club has not received a single offer for striker Erling Braut Haaland. Manchester United, Juventus, and Real Madrid are all interested in signing the striker but neither of the clubs has launched an offer for Haaland so far.
      
According to English outlet Mirror, RB Salzburg are yet to receive an offer from Manchester United or any other club for their young striker Erling Braut Haaland. Haaland has burst onto the scene with some feisty performances and has caught the eye of major European clubs like Manchester United, Juventus, Real Madrid and Paris Saint-Germain. The Sporting director Christoph Freund further confirmed that there are many rumours about a deal being agreed but in reality, not a single offer has been received. 
The Norwegian has turned into a goal machine scoring 22 goals in 16 games this season. Out of those 22, 6 goals have come in the UEFA Champions League and 12 in the Austrian league and 4 in the Austrian League cup. Manchester United have been heavily linked to the 19-year-old with Ole Gunnar Solskjaer desperate to add attacking reinforcements to the squad. 
Serie A champions Juventus are ready to offer £35 million for the Salzburg striker as the Old Lady hope to add young blood in the squad with the majority of current players in the older age range. Haaland has worked with Solskjaer at Molde and has admired the former Molde coach. The 19-year-old forward has created a lot of buzz across Europe and is being monitored by a number of clubs and Haaland might be on the move in January despite no offers until now.
