
# New Earbuds From MediaDevil Use Genuine Graphene For A Better Sound

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Sparrow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/marksparrow/2019/11/07/new-earbuds-from-mediadevil-use-genuine-graphene-for-a-better-sound/)

Question: When is graphene not graphene? Answer: When it is graphite.Regular readers may have noticed that lately quite a few of the earphones I’ve reviewed claim to have graphene-coated drivers for superior sound. Why graphene? Well, that requires a short explanation about what graphene is and why it’s especially suited to use in earphones. 
Graphene was discovered at Manchester University, back in 2004, and the discoverers won themselves a Nobel prize for discovering it. Essentially, graphene is a single layer of carbon just one atom thick. Graphene is harder than diamond yet a hundred layers of it would measure only a one millimeter thick. If you were to lay out a sheet of graphene covering the area of a soccer pitch, it would weigh less than a gram. This wonder material can be stretched up to 25% in length without deforming, so it’s very elastic. Finally, Graphene conducts heat better than any other known material and has an electrical current density around one million times greater than copper. Graphene has a bright future ahead of it.
However, there’s a problem; although many earphone manufacturers claim to now be using graphene-coated drivers in their products, it’s hard to tell if the material being used is pure graphene. In many cases, it’s graphite or nothing more than an old pencil lead. Graphite just doesn’t have the same properties as graphene with its tight bonds, super strength, phenomenal conductivity, and elasticity. Graphite sheds atoms easily which is why it’s used as a writing implement.
Currently, the graphene industry is going through something of a “Wild West” phase without any meaningful regulation or oversight. In other words, some manufacturers may claim to be using graphene-coated drivers in their earphones when they aren’t. We’re living in an age of audio snake oil.
I was contacted recently by Callum Bush, CEO of MediaDevil, an innovative UK company that makes a range of useful tech products, including earphones. MediaDevil claims to be the only earphone manufacturer currently using Nanene, a coating made from a few layers of pure graphene that’s been verified by the Graphene Council, the closest thing the industry currently has to a regulator. 
The Ingenia CB-01 are earphones are marketed under the Artisanphonics sub-brand and as well as using pure graphene as a driver coating, these earphones boast a few other features. To start with, the Artisanphonics packaging is plastic free and recyclable. The Ingenia CB-01 earpiece housings are made from wood that’s sourced from offcuts produced by the luxury furniture business. The idea is that the wood imparts a warm and fulsome sound to the graphene-coated drivers, whereas plastic housings can often sound harsh or rattle if they’re made from more than one piece.
The CB-01 also feature a 36-strand copper cable that’s covered in a braided sheath made from sustainably sourced materials. The braiding helps to stop the cable tangling when stowed away in a bag. I for one can attest to the beastly habit of some earphones tying themselves in knots without any human intervention. The top half of the cable is coated in plastic material to hush the sound of any chaffing as the listener is moving around or exercising. 
Finally, the CB-01 earphones have an in-line remote control that works with both iOS and Android devices. The remote can alter volume levels as well as skipping tracks or answering phone calls. The volume button also doubles as a camera shutter release when the smartphone camera app is open. A microphone is also built-in for phone calls or voice commands. There’s a range of silicone ear-tips provided in several sizes plus a small cloth bag to store the earphones in. All in all, this is a neat little package.
With all these advanced materials technologies and environmentally friendly features, how do the CB-01 sound? The answer is “sweet”. These are some of the nicest and most well-balanced wired earphones I’ve heard in a while. The Ingenia CB-01 serve up beautifully rounded music with a separated bass that’s warm and inviting. And thanks to those graphene drivers, these earphones respond quickly to highs and cymbal crashes that add real excitement to the music, whatever the genre. I soon found myself immersed in the music and enjoying the beautifully balanced tone that these unassuming wired earphones offer. I spent most of my testing time listening to mellow jazz tracks and they detail the CB-01 earphones managed to squeeze from the music was captivating. These are remarkable. 
Verdict: The Ingenia CB-01 earphones from Artisanphonics are a revelation. They are the first pair of graphene-coated earphones that made me sit up and take notice. There’s something about the balance and smoothness of their delivery that makes listening to them positively addictive. The environment features like the use of wood and other sustainable materials are all bonus points. The remote that works with both iOS and Android devices are also very welcome. For the money, the Ingenia CB-01 are hard to beat. They’ll make you wish you had a headphone socket on your smartphone. Fortunately, I still have one. 
Pricing and availability: The Artisanphonics Ingenia CB-01 are available from MediaDevil and on Amazon for £49.99 / €59.99 / $59.99
More info: www.mediadevil.com  
