
# Save $30 On The New Echo Plus & Get A Free Smart Bulb

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:58:33+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/sale-black-friday-deal-amazon-echo-plus-philips-hue-bulb.html)

Amazon is discounting the Echo Plus by about $30 right now, dropping it down to just $119. But that also comes with a free Philips Hue smart bulb. Which is a $30 value too.
The Amazon Echo Plus is a larger Echo smart speaker, and it's larger because, well it has a larger speaker inside. But also because it does double as a smart home hub for products like Philips Hue bulbs, that still need the Hue Bridge to connect to the internet. Now, you won't need that Hue Bridge to connect your bulbs, which is definitely a really nice thing.
Echo Plus is a smart speaker still, and the audio is better than it was on the first generation model. It also was tuned by Dolby, so you know that the sound is going to be pretty top-notch. There is a decent amount of bass included in the Echo Plus as well.
Advertisement
Amazon still offers the Echo Plus in three colors: charcoal, heather gray and sandstone. Only the Sandstone comes with a white top though.
Echo Plus has Alexa built-in, obviously. Which can be used to control smart home products like the Philips Hue bulbs, as well as the Ring doorbell and much more. It can give you the latest weather, traffic conditions and even the news.
Now the Philips Hue bulb that is included here, is not the white and color ambiance model, which is why it's only valued at about $30. The white and color ambiance bulbs are usually priced at around $50-$60. This is a white bulb that can be tuned and dimmed, so you can get the bright white color, or more of a yellow color – which is good for simulating the sunrise and sunset in your home.
Advertisement
You can pick up the Amazon Echo Plus and the Philips Hue bulb from Amazon by clicking here.

        Amazon Echo Plus & Philips Hue Bulb - Amazon - $119
      
