
# Flood pours cold water on Krumbiegel Hall

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kumaran P**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/flood-pours-cold-water-on-krumbiegel-hall/articleshow/71882122.cms)

Workers from North Karnataka had to go back in face of rain fury There is no progress on rebuilding of the iconic Krumbiegel Hall. The structure was demolished two years ago and was supposed to be rebuilt with the same structural parts. But this work is yet to take off. And the reason is: heavy rains in North Karnataka. Due to the floods that left many homeless, about 80 per cent of the workers who were deployed for the construction work from that region, are unable to come and start the work. Over the last few months there has been a hue and cry about the delay in the re-construction of the Krumbiegel Hall as for over a year, the Department of Horticulture have been saying that the work will get over soon. The hall used to be located inside the Lalbagh Botanical Gardens. But why the delay? M Jagadeesh, joint director, horticulture, parks and gardens told BM, “We have given the work to the Archaeology Department and transferred Rs. 98 lakh. They have called for tenders. They have also finalised on a firm that is suitable for re-construction work and the work orders have also been issued. The firm has begun work on the site and they have informed us that the base work is over but construction is yet to begin.” He said the floods in North Karnataka did have an effect on the work. “Most of the workers who are from there have gone back to their hometown as they have lost their houses. Over 80 per cent of the workers are from North Karnataka and they were not here for over two months now. We have had an extensive meeting with Deputy Director and Archaeology officials as well and they gave us this information. They also told that the workers are back and the work will begin soon,” he added. The firm is also said to have been given eight months’ time to complete the work said, Jagadeesh. The re-construction work started towards the end of February this year. The department also said that the new building will resemble the old structure and measures will be taken to prevent weather and age-related damages. Background The nearly 100-year-old dilapidated structure was demolished in November 2017 after a portion of it collapsed following heavy rain. The lecture hall is named after Gustav Hermann Krumbiegel, a German botanist and town planner who served as superintendent of Lalbagh and is credited with having developed the gardens. According to the tender issued, chemical emulsion will be injected for pre-constructional anti-termite treatment, creating a continuous chemical barrier under and around the column pits, wall trenches, basement and along the external perimeter of the new building.
