
# Andrew Ladd feels good after first game back

Published at: **2019-11-03T02:32:21+00:00**

Author: **Michael Zahn**

Original: [The Sports Daily](https://thesportsdaily.com/2019/11/02/andrew-ladd-feels-good-after-first-game-back/)

BRIDGEPORT, C.T. – In the midst of the New York Islanders’ winning streak, they’ve dealt with ample injuries and sicknesses allowing others the opportunity to play meaningful minutes in the beginning of the season. One player who started the season still rehabbing, got his first game action with the Sound Tigers Saturday evening.
Andrew Ladd—a rugged winger of almost 1,000 career games—is looking to return with the big club and understands he’s supposed to be an integral cog of the team, after signing a seven-year contract in the summer of 2016 to play alongside John Tavares.
Saturday morning, the Islanders placed Ladd on long-term injured reserve and sent him to Bridgeport for conditioning. This was the second time in two seasons that the winger was sent to Connecticut on a conditioning stint.
“For me, my knee felt good,” said Ladd about getting back into game action. “That’s what I wanted to feel today. The hands weren’t quite there yet. They’ll catch up to the feet eventually.”
Unlike the current crop of Islanders, Ladd’s injuries have been longer-term. The Islanders have played 259 regular-season games since inking the rugged forward, but Ladd has suited up in 177 of those games
And he’s only appeared in 26 games since Barry Trotz took over behind the bench last year. Ladd was sidelined at the end of March due to an ACL injury.
