
# Prince Harry to deliver Queen's personal message to England stars before World Cup final

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Andy Lines, Russell Myers, https://www.facebook.com/AndyLinesDailyMirror/, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/russell-myers/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/prince-harry-deliver-queens-personal-20791685)

Prince Harry flew into Tokyo last night to join 25,000 English fans ready to roar their side to victory in the Rugby World Cup final.
He will visit the England team before they take to the field and deliver a personal good luck message from the Queen.
It reads: “Your performances during the tournament have delighted supporters, and inspired many people throughout the country.
“I send my congratulations on reaching the 2019 Rugby World Cup Final, together with my very best wishes for a memorable and successful match.”
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: “The whole country is behind you – through every kick, ruck, lineout and maul. Come on, England, bring the World Cup home.”
The match against South Africa is England’s most important since the 2007 final against the same opponents, who were then victorious 15-6.
Thousands of England fans were at the Bronze match play-off between Wales and New Zealand, which was won by the All Blacks 40-17.
During the first half yesterday a huge chant of “Oh Maro Itoje” could be heard from England fans. The powerful lock forward has become an iconic hero.
Tickets for the match are selling for £10,000.
Viewing figures could break a 16-year record for ITV. The audience hit 10 million for England’s win against the All Blacks last week but it is thought up to double could tune in. John Parker, 64, of Weymouth, Dorset, said: “I can’t wait. Japan’s been so welcoming. I think we can win.” He has been staying in Yokohama and enjoying a beer at the local rugby club.
Tom Trafford, 67, of Doncaster, said: “I want to win the final but it doesn’t really matter as it’s been an extraordinary experience.”
Harry, patron of the Rugby Football Union, also sent a message before the game.
He included a photo of son Archie in a Red Rose jersey and wife Meghan revealed she will be dressing him in an England onesie.
The last, and so far only, time England won the Webb Ellis Cup, was in 2003, against Australia.
When asked if he had received support from the Royal Family, flanker Sam Underhill said: “Not personally! As a group we’ve had a couple of messages from Prince Harry .
“He showed his little lad in an England shirt, so that was a nice touch. I’m still waiting on my personal message!”
The Duke is also scheduled to meet Japanese para athletes before the 9am game.
And fans of Sale Sharks will be toasting the champions – whoever wins. The Premiership rugby union side from Greater Manchester has four of its players lining up in Japan.
Tom Curry will start for England and Faf De Klerk and Lood de Jager are in South Africa’s starting 15. Sale’s Mark Wilson is on England’s bench.
English clubs Saracens and Bath also have players from both countries in the squads.
Sale’s head of media Sam Diamond laughed: “We are guaranteed a winner!”
Meanwhile, Wales captain Alun Wyn Jones, 34, who has been shortlisted for Player of the Year, insisted he is not ready to retire yet.
