
# Maruti Suzuki India sees a hike in October sales by 4.5 per cent to 1,53,435 units

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:58:46+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/maruti-suzuki-india-sees-a-hike-in-october-sales-by-4-5-per-cent-to-153435-units/)

Maruti Suzuki India has witnessed a hike in October 2019 sales. The company has sold 1,44,277 units domestically which is 4.5 per cent higher as compared to the corresponding sales figure of 1,38,100 from last year. The export sales have also seen an increase of 5.7 per cent at 9,158 units exported this month in correspondence to 8,666 units exported in October 2018.
The hatchbacks; Alto, S-Presso and the previous generation WagonR has seen a decline of 13 per cent - from 32,835 unit sales October last year to 28,537 unit sales October this year. Meanwhile, the segment with Celerio, current-generation WagonR, Ignis, Swift, Baleno, Dzire have a ramped-up sales number of 15.9 per cent. From 64,789 units in October 2018 to 75,094 units in 2019.
While the compact segment grew, the Ciaz took a toll in sales by dropping down 39.1 per cent. 3,892 units last year to 2,371 units this year. The utility segment, too, has seen a hike of 11.3 per cent; from 20,764 units to 23,108 units from the corresponding months. The utility segment includes the Gypsy (now discontinued), Ertiga, XL6, Vitara Brezza and the S-Cross.
Maruti Suzuki launched the S-Presso micro SUV in the month of September and the XL6 MPV was introduced in the month of August. Both the newly launched products are in the segment where Maruti Suzuki has seen an increase in sales.
Maruti Suzuki S-Presso ranges between Rs 3.69 and 4.91 lakh ex-showroom, while the XL6 has a price bracket of Rs 9.79 - 11.46 lakh, ex-showroom.

        Maruti Suzuki Ertiga scores three stars in 2019 Global NCAP crash test
      

        Maruti Suzuki India sells over two lakh BSVI vehicles in six months
      

        Maruti Suzuki S-Presso First Drive Review
      
