
# DxOMARK now uses the best video quality settings for tests -

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:42:32+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/07/dxomark-now-uses-the-best-video-quality-settings-not-default-mode-for-tests/)

DxOMARK now uses the “best” video quality settings for tests3.7 (73.33%) 3 votes
DxOMARK is a reputable source of independent audio and image quality measurements and ratings for a smartphone camera. While its rating may not exactly tell us the smartphone with the “best” camera, it gives us an insight on what to expect from the phone camera. Recently, the results for Apple iPhone 11 Pro Max hit the web. Its 117 overall score ranks third behind Huawei Mate 30 Pro and Xiaomi Mi Note 10.
However, for the still image rank, it scores 124 points while its video score is 102 points. Nevertheless, netizens pointed out that DxOMark was only measuring 1080 30fps and this may not reflect the “true” ability of the phone’s camera. In response, DxOMark said that by default, the iPhone 11 Pro Max records video at 30 frames per second at 1080p full HD resolution. However, it achieves the best recording results at 4K resolution.
Therefore, starting November 1, 2019, all DxOMark Camera and Selfie video tests will use the best video quality settings…(whether or not the setting is the default mode). This means that it will access the top settings and will only accept the best result. Is this a better way to test smartphones’ camera or the default mode?

        Source
      
