
# Former 7 Saints Kilmarnock premises to close as it's bought over by Buzzworks

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:08:07+00:00**

Author: **Lochlin Highet, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/lochlin-highet/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/former-7-saints-kilmarnock-premises-20807877)

Kilmarnock's John Finnie Street is getting set to welcome a new restaurant as one closes.
Buzzworks Holdings have taken over Lucky 7, formerly 7 Saints in the town centre.
It's the second of the company's premises to close this year, with Prestwick 7 Saints announcing in June that they would be closing their doors.
It will be the third Buzzworks premises in Kilmarnock to open, following the Long House and their training facilities at the former The Jefferson restaurant. There is another in East Ayrshire – The Mill House in Stewarton.
The Lucky 7 premises will close for refurbishment but all staff will be retained and offered positions at other Buzzworks venues while work is underway.
Buzzworks is set to invest both in the venue and training of staff to bring the establishment in line with its existing portfolio, ensuring that customers visiting from the local community and beyond can enjoy great food, an extended drinks selection and fantastic service.
With the family-owned business also recently purchasing The Jefferson in the town centre in February this year, Kilmarnock is at the heart of Buzzworks plans.
Renovation is already underway to create Buzzworks new head office – a three-floor property in Grange Street – which will feature a world-class training academy, along with the refurbished Jefferson next door.
Kenny Blair, Buzzworks Holdings managing director, said: “Kilmarnock is an area where we see so much potential and these two opportunities allow us to become a bigger part of the local community where we operate.
"So many of our team live in the surrounding area so it’s important for us to always retain and build on that local connection.
“Not only will the purchase of Lucky 7 allow us to bring an exciting new concept to the local market, relocating our new head office to Kilmarnock town centre will also bring around 30 jobs to the area.
“Our new head office will feature an industry leading training academy, which we believe is key to the continued success of our business.
"We will be able to deliver great hospitality to customers across our portfolio with the foundations being laid in the heart of Kilmarnock town centre, as we plan to expand into other parts of Scotland in the coming years.”
