
# Tug of War As KNBS Accused Of Taking Census Officials In Circles Over Delayed Dues

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:01:50+00:00**

Author: **Wycliffe**

Original: [KahawaTungu](https://www.kahawatungu.com/2019/11/05/knbs-census-officials-delayed-dues/)

The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) has been forced to address concerns by officials who participated in the 2019 National Population and Housing Census exercise over unpaid dues.
Following the release of the 2019 Census results on Monday, officials, who claim they haven’t been paid, took to social media to decry the delays.
The affected officials, ICT supervisors, content supervisors and enumerators, demanded that KNBS releases their payments soonest.
Some of the officials stated that they had received the first instalment and efforts to get full payment had proved futile due to frustration by KNBS County officials.
According to the officials, their respective County Statistic Officers (CSOs) linked the delays to “problems with bank accounts”.
“During the second payments excuses started coming up, we were told there was issue with our bank accounts. Remember these are the same bank accounts they paid us our first instalment,” one of the affected officials stated.
Read: Census Results Released, Population Stands At 47.56 Million
Others have not been paid because they lost accessories (chargers) of the gadgets they were using.
In a tweet following the social media rant, KNBS confirmed that some officials are yet to receive their payment and that the body is aware of the issues.
“We’ve heard your concerns and  @KNBS we are committed to making sure every personnel is paid, ” said KNBS.
However, those who are yet to receive their monies are required to confirm the bank details they supplied.
They are also required to return the census gadgets in “good working condition”.
Read Also: KNBS Dispatches Census Enumerators’ Payments, Process To Be Complete In Two Weeks
