
# $150M Binance Futures Manipulation Lawsuit is ‘Nuisance’: FTX

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:30:46+00:00**

Author: **Christine Vasileva**

Original: [Bitcoinist.com](https://bitcoinist.com/ftx-parent-company-sees-150m-lawsuit-circulating-as-nuisance/)


        Alameda Research, FTX’s parent company has called out the $150 million lawsuit slapped on it for manipulating markets as utter ‘nuisance’. The class-action is based on a September 15 event, in which the smaller futures exchange attempted an attack against Binance Futures, with the aim of achieving liquidations.
      
Soon after the filing circulated on social media, more specifically Twitter, Alameda Research published an inflamed response. FTX was not at fault, and the plaintiff will not be able to prove any wrongdoing, Alameda commented. The complaint has also not been officially served to Alameda Research or FTX yet and was immediately made public.
The lawsuit was a form of trolling, with no substantial evidence, beyond repeating well-known conspiracies about price manipulation, Alameda commented.
The Binance price-setting mechanism, which used an index, forestalled the intended liquidations. But the case was noted by Binance’s leader, Changpeng Zhao. And he was not the only one that spotted the FTX misbehavior. The plaintiff was serious in claiming market manipulation and unfair business practices. Later, the misunderstanding between Binance and FTX was cleared, but then Bitcoin Manipulation Abatement, LLC appeared out of the blue with its dramatic claims.
