
# Khloe Kardashian says she 'doesn't need a man' as she 'has love of her life'

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:58:35+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/khloe-kardashian-says-doesnt-need-20821301)

Khloe Kardashian has opened up about her future relationships and had admitted that she 'doesn't want a man'.
The 35-year-old Keeping Up With The Kardashians star has had her fingers burned in recent relationships, with her last boyfriend, Tristan Thompson, being binned off after a kiss scandal.
The NBA star was allegedly in a clinch with Kylie Jenner's former BFF Jordyn Woods at a party and since that moment, Khloe has turned her back on looking for another man.
In fact, she has admitted that she is "so in love" with her daughter True, from her time with Tristan, that she doesn't need another to muscle in on her affections.
In a Kardashian takeover of The Real, Khloe was joined by her sisters Kourtney and Kim and they were soon spilling the beans on the daytime talk show.
Of course, Khloe was subjected to more questions about her love life and why she can't find the perfect man for everlasting love.
The show's host, Adrienne Bailon, is also a friend of the family but she didn't hold back in trying to extract the revelations that the viewers wanted.
Questioning Khloe, Adrienne asked: "You’ve been so open that you’re not in the headspace for dating right now.
"But, when you are ready, what kind of guy would you be looking for?"
It turns out there isn't 'a type' for Khloe and it is all irrelevant anyway as she is not even on the market for another relationship.
Khloe replied: "It’s not even the headspace, I just don’t know what the point of rushing is.
"If it’s natural, great. But, I’m just so in love with [daughter] True [Thompson] and I don’t feel incomplete or that I need to distract myself in any way."
Khloe went on to say that that it is down to 'type' to determined the next man in her life.
She continued: "I’m totally good and happy and I just love it. My think my biggest thing is not having any sort of type, like whoever I vibe and connect with is just what I want to do.
"I just don’t really have any pressure on it."
After her experience with Tristan, who also cheated on the reality star while she was in labour with True, it would seem that the Good American designer will be happily single for the time being.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
