
# Ubiquiti launches ‘all-in-one’ UniFi Dream Machine Wi-Fi router

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:26:48+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/ubiquiti-launches-all-one-unifi-dream-machine-wi-fi-router?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Ubiquiti
      
Ubiquiti claims the UniFi Dream Machine has "everything you need for a small-scale wired or Wi-Fi network." The all-in-one home router is powered by a quad-core processor clocked at 1.7 GHz, based on the ARM Cortex-A57 architecture. It integrates a 4x4 enterprise access point, cloud key, Gigabit switch, and a security gateway.
You will be able to manage your UniFi network with the help of Ubiquiti's UniFi network app, which lets you manage all your network devices from a single, graphical user interface. Similar to Ubiquiti's other products, every component of the UnFi Dream Machine is scalable and will be continuously updated without the any subscription or maintenance fees.
The all-in-one home router includes a total of five Ethernet ports, including 4 LAN and 1 WAN port. For secure networking, the UniFi Dream Machine has advanced firewall policies and persistent threat management. It supports 802.11ac Wave 2 4x4 MU-MIMO and has claimed IDS/IPS throughput of up to 1 Gbps.
The UniFi Dream Machine is an elegant all-in-one router that combines a 4x4 enterprise point, cloud key, Gigabit switch, and a security gateway. It features a 1.7 GHz quad-core chipset, advanced security with threat management, VLAN support, and 5 Ethernet ports.

        Where's my battery? OnePlus phone batteries are being decimated by WhatsApp OnePlus users running Android 9 and 10 are seeing as much as 40% of their battery drained by WhatsApp.
      

        Smooth as butter New rumor says the OnePlus 8 Pro will have a 120Hz display According to a new rumor, the OnePlus 8 Pro will feature a 120Hz Fluid AMOLED display.
      

        Your carrier sucks CCMI means profits and that's why carriers are doing it Carriers know that done right, RCS offers new business opportunities. We just have a different definition of right than carriers do.
      

        No matter your taste, your phone needs a case Protect your Galaxy Note 10+ with these great discounted cases The Galaxy Note 10+ is a whole lot of power and premium design in your hand, and while you may want to show off its beautiful gradient back to the world, this phone needs a case. Get a good one to protect your Note 10+.
      
