
# Six-month extension to review RTS implementation aspects, agreements — Loke

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:37:49+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/sixmonth-extension-review-rts-implementation-aspects-agreements-%E2%80%94-loke)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 5): Malaysia needs a six-month extension to review the implementation aspects and several agreements regarding the Johor Bahru-Singapore Rapid Transit System (RTS) Link project, said Transport Minister Anthony Loke Siew Fook.
He also asserted that the extension period was needed following Malaysia’s decision to continue with the project.
“It’s true, we have requested for a six-month extension before we can sign all the agreements, because the government has decided to continue RTS with some amendments to the scope and structure of the project.
“When there are amendments, we need to conduct studies on it. We will appoint consultant to undertake the engineering studies as well as amendments to the agreements that we have to sign,” he told reporters at Parliament lobby here today.
He also denied a news report by an English daily recently, that the extension request for the third time was because Malaysia had not yet made a decision on the project.
On news reports that the RTS project would proceed at a reduced cost by 36%, Loke said this was for the Malaysian side, involving project in Johor.
It was reported before that with 36% in cost reduction, the project would be implemented at a new price at RM3.16 billion compared with RM4.93 billion originally.
