
# Isko’s men capture suspect in Nov. 1 slay

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:17:48+00:00**

Author: **Itchie G. Cabayan**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/iskos-men-capture-suspect-nov-1-slay)

Moreno also commended the Special Mayor’s Reaction Team (SMaRT) headed by Maj. Jhun Ibay following the arrest of suspect Dennis Zausa, 35, a carpenter, of  427 Palmera St., Sampaloc, Manila.  He was nabbed in a follow-up operation conducted by Ibay, along with P/ Major Cicero Pura, P/Capt. Edward Samonte and P/MSgt. Dennis Insierto, in coordination with P/ Capt. Henry Navarro, chief of the MPD-Homicide Section.
The operation was conducted at around 7 p.m. and Zausa was arrested while eating inside the Sunshine Square on Malvar Street,  Barangay Tubigan, Binan, Laguna.
Ibay said the arrest came after Zausa’s wife, apparently stricken by conscience, led authorities to the location of her husband.
According to Ibay, they also got hold of a CCTV recording that caught the suspect fleeing the scene.
Police records show that last November  1, at around 8 a.m., the victim, identified as Billy John Ferolin Ynierves, of  Tubong  Durian Street, San Roque Daliao Toril , Davao City, was murdered inside Room 408, 4th floor of LDL Hotel located on  F. Jhocson Street in Sampaloc.
Zausa told Ibay that the victim did not keep his promise to pay him P2,000 for certain services, prompting him to stab him repeteadly with an icepick.  The victim sustained 16 stabwounds in the head and body.
