
# This couple colour-coordinated their wedding lehenga and sherwani in the most BEAUTIFUL way ever

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/fashion/buzz/this-couple-colour-coordinated-their-wedding-lehenga-and-sherwani-in-the-most-beautiful-way-ever/articleshow/71939874.cms)

If you think brides and grooms in India spend a lot of time and money in deciding various details of their wedding, including the wedding trousseau, then you have perhaps not come across pictures of NRI couples. Well, Indians living abroad are leaving no stone unturned to get to their roots for their big day and if that means dressing up to the nines, as per the Indian traditions then so be it.
We came across one such couple living in United Kingdom, who went to the extent of colour-coordinating their wedding outfit, and no prizes for guessing that they looked so regal together.
When UK-based Amar Jandoo decided to tie the knot with beau Hiren Gondhia, she picked up the most elegant lehenga ever. The subtle pink lehenga was courtesy, Frontier Raas. The beautiful creation featured elaborate dark pink embroidery. Amar finished off the look with a lovely choker necklace, matching earrings and maang tikka.
The dapper groom, Hiren set some serious groom style goals by complementing his wife perfectly in a pink sherwani which featured silver embroidery. He finished off the look with a rani pink stole, a churidaar, pearl maala and juttis.
We are in love with this gorgeous couple's wedding style, tell us what do you think about the duo's wedding looks.
Photo: Zohaib Ali
