
# Saving Delhi From The Toxic Smog: Regulations Have Failed But Financial Incentives Could Work

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nives Dolsak and Aseem Prakash**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/prakashdolsak/2019/11/02/saving-delhi-from-the-toxic-smog-regulations-have-failed-but-financial-incentives-could-work/)

India’s capital, New Delhi, is shrouded in a toxic smog. Its Average Air Quality Index (reflecting PM 2.5) is above 400. For perspective, this index ranges from 0 to 500, with the worst quality, Hazardous, in the 300-500 range. Delhi is under a public health emergency with schools closed, and construction activity banned. Last week, the Supreme Court of India prohibited the bursting of crackers on the occasion of Diwali. Players participating in the T20 international cricket match series are spotted wearing face masks.

        Burning of agriculture waste causes smog
      
The November smog is caused mainly by the burning of paddy (rice) stubble in the neighboring states of Punjab, Haryana, and to some extent, Uttar Pradesh. These states are India’s breadbaskets. They were at the forefront of the Green Revolution that transformed India from a food deficit country to a food surplus one.   
For farmers, agricultural land is a valuable asset. To maximize their financial returns, farmers plant both a monsoon (paddy) and winter (wheat) crop.
This strategy poses a logistical problem for farmers. After harvesting the paddy crop in October, farmers need to prepare their fields quickly to plant the wheat crop. To clear the stubble, farmers could employ outside labor or use machines. Both are expensive. They adopt a cost-effective solution: burn the stubble.  

        But laws and public opinion should discourage burning
      
India has plenty of laws for everything, including stubble burning. Indian satellites can pinpoint exact locations of stubble fires, which can facilitate enforcement. But the Indian government lacks the political will to enforce burning laws.
Global and local public opinion also do not incentivize governments to enforce the law.
Crop burning contributes to global warming. India wants to be recognized as a climate leader and is among the select few countries that are meeting their Paris targets.  But the Indian elites tend to view crop burning as a local pollution issue, not as a climate problem.  
Citizens of Delhi are probably angry about crop burning. It seems they have reconciled to air pollution although respiratory diseases in Delhi are surging. Like other Indians, Delhiites, tend to focus on jobs, growth, cost of living, and national security: pollution problems typically do not influence elections.

        Why is the government not enforcing stubble burning regulations?
      
The burning ban is unpopular because it increases the costs of farming. The farm lobby is vocal about resisting a burning ban. Elections in Punjab and Haryana are highly competitive, where small vote margins can lead to electoral defeats.
The crop burning politics also reflects the gulf between the Punjabi farmer and the urban Delhi elite. As a prominent Punjab politician noted, “If smoke from burning crops impacts lungs in Delhi for three weeks, then exhaust from vehicles in Delhi adversely impacts the countryside for 365 days.”
But there is an additional problem that makes governments wary of enforcing a ban. Sikhs are the dominant community in Punjab. In the 1980s and the 1990s, the state experienced a violent, separatist conflict to create a Sikh homeland, Khalistan. This led to the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguard, massive rioting that targeted the Sikh community in the aftermath of her assassination, and a revolt by the Sikh regiments of the army. Further, Punjab shares the international border with Pakistan and the domestic border with  Jammu and Kashmir, both politically volatile areas.  
Should the government try to enforce the burning ban, a massive farmer backlash would follow. Given the history of the region, it would probably turn violent and assume a religious dimension. Because Pakistan continues to harbor Khalistani separatist groups, it might be tempted to meddle. Even the thought of such a scenario is probably sufficient to dissuade any politician from seeking the enforcement of a burning ban.

        Farmers can be incentivized to stop stubble burning
      
Nobel Laureate Ronald Coase had suggested that there are two ways to reduce pollution: governmental regulation or a deal with the polluter not to pollute. In other words,  financial incentives might work where regulations fail.
Punjab farmers are practical, enterprising, and respond well to incentives. The Green Revolution succeeded because the government figured out how to motivate farmers to adopt new technologies. Now it needs to figure out how to persuade farmers to use machines to clear the stubble.
To harvest paddy, farmers typically use a self-propelled harvester. This process generates about 20 million tons of paddy straw, of which only one-fifth gets diverted to biomass-based power plants and cardboard mills. What to do with the remaining 80%, if not to burn?
Niti Aayog, the premier government think tank, has outlined a strategy in this regard. The federal government gives subsidies for the purchase of machines such as rotavator, Happy seeder, chopper, and the super straw management system. These machines help farmers with say compressing stubble in bundles for easy transportation, in-situ residue management, or converting straw into bio pellets which could serve as fuel for industries.
But these machines are costly. Of the 1.8 million farming families in Punjab, about 1 million have small landholdings of two to five acres. Individually, these farmers cannot afford to buy these machines. The good news is that farmers are embedded in a well-functioning cooperative system that played a key role in the adoption of green revolution technologies. Both the federal and the Punjab governments have appropriated funds so that cooperative societies can purchase these machines. But with only 63,000 machines for the whole state, this effort does not match the scale of the problem.

        Stubble burning problem can be solved
      
The policy challenge is to scale up the mechanization of stubble removal. Governmental resources alone may not suffice. Perhaps, various industry associations could step in as well. For example, India requires that all companies spend  2 percent of their three-year average annual net profit on corporate social responsibility (CSR). These associations could encourage their members to invest their CSR resources in specific districts to support the uptake of these machines. Delhi’s smog is a complicated problem, and all sorts of resources, governmental and non-governmental, need to be mobilized to address it.
