
# Strictly's Lisa Armstrong looks fabulous as divorce talks with Ant McPartlin rumble on

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:18:07+00:00**

Author: **Brogan-Leigh Hurst**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/strictlys-lisa-armstrong-looks-fabulous-20806565)

Lisa Armstrong is just getting better and better, and she's proved it with her latest snap.
The Strictly Come Dancing make-up artist, 43, is plodding on with life and work amid her divorce war with the TV presenter, also 43.
In a snap on Twitter , Lisa looked incredible as she sported fresh make-up and new hair, which her fans loved.
She shared a posed-up photo which read: "Work selfie... Happy Sunday everyone!! x"
"Love your hair. Looks lovely," one gushed.
While another commented: "Looking stunning".
And a third penned: "Oh My Goodness Lisa you are just stunning".
The couple announced their split in January 2018, and took the first step towards divorce nine months later following 11 years of marriage.
 
Their relationship had been under pressure following Ant's addiction to painkillers after 'botched' knee surgery, and the fact he was "intolerable to live with", according to his estranged wife.
The photo comes amid talks to reach a settlement before I'm A Celebrity begins, as Lisa is entitled to some of Ant's £62million fortune.
Ant is "desperate" to reach a settlement before the hit ITV show starts and has reportedly made a move to set up new mediation talks so they can sort it out away from court.
 
But Lisa is refusing to be pressured into a pay-off that she she doesn't think is right and won't sign a non-disclosure agreement, according to  The Sun .
The pair have been at loggerheads over a £62million settlement and left arbitration without coming to an agreement last month.
Ant is said to be worried the case will be sent back to the High Court if their lawyers can't come up with a deal.
He fears this will lead to a "very public and messy divorce hearing" with Lisa.
Ant reportedly wants to get the issue sorted before he returns to the jungle on November 17.
Despite this, he has recently moved into a new £6million Wimbledon home with girlfriend Anne-Marie Corbett.
