
# Jodie Chesney: Two teenagers guilty of stabbing Girl Scout to death in park

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:37:17+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, Emily Pennink, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-jodie-chesney-two-teenagers-20833809)

Two drug-dealing teenagers have been found guilty of murdering Girl Scout Jodie Chesney.
The popular student had been smoking cannabis and listening to music with friends in a park when she was stabbed in the back on the evening of March 1.
In a case of mistaken identity, Jodie, 17, became a victim of "casual violence" in the drug-dealing world, jurors heard.
Svenson Ong-a-Kwie, 19, and a 17-year-old boy who cannot be named for legal reasons have been convicted at the Old Bailey of murdering the 17-year-old.
Their co-defendants Manual Petrovic, 20, and a 16-year-old boy were cleared of murder after the jury deliberated for less than six hours.
The defendants, including those found guilty, showed no reaction when the jury read out its verdicts.
 
Members of Jodie's family, including father Peter and sister Lucy, erupted with cheers of "yes!" and clenched their fists as the guilty verdicts were delivered.
Earlier, there were tears from Jodie's sister as the not-guilty verdicts were delivered for murder charges against Manual Petrovic and the 16-year-old boy.
Speaking outside court Jodie's father Peter Chesney said: "The two people in the park I'm over the moon about.
"We got them."
Although the motive was unclear, the court was told how the defendants had been involved in numerous violent clashes as they fought to protect their turf.
Each had denied being involved in Jodie's death, with two blaming each other for the stabbing.
 
Jodie's family left the court as soon as the verdicts were delivered.
Afterwards, Detective Chief Inspector Dave Whellams, of Scotland Yard, said "girl next door" Jodie's murder was a tragedy which shocked the nation.
He added: "It could have been anybody's daughter. She was a very nice girl, she had a small circle of friends, she did well at school, worked in the community, She was in the Scouts. She had been up to Downing Street. She was the girl next door.
"She was just an ordinary girl and that's the tragedy. She was an ordinary girl going about her ordinary business and has fallen foul of these people.
"They have gone there purposefully to stab somebody and they have not cared who they stabbed. They stabbed a 17-year-old girl in the back for no reason."
 
The defendants were said to have come from broken homes and turned to drug dealing as a way of making "easy money".
Prosecutor Crispin Aylett QC had told jurors they took a "casual approach to violence" in a world where knife crime was "routine".
The court had heard how Ong-a-Kwie had been knifed in the thigh six months before and was on the lookout for his assailants on the day of the murder.
Police said at least three knives had been seized during the investigation but none was confirmed as the murder weapon.
On the evening of March 1, Petrovic had driven the defendants to Amy's Park in Harold Hill, east London, after Ong-a-Kwie sent an urgent request for a lift.
 
Petrovic did a U-turn, turned off his headlights and waited in the car with the 16-year-old defendant as Ong-a-Kwie and the 17-year-old ran in armed with a knife.
Chilling CCTV captured the shadowy figures of Ong-a-Kwie and the 17-year-old disappearing into the park before the sounds of Jodie screaming could be heard.
Giving evidence, Jodie's boyfriend Eddie Coyle, 18, told how she collapsed in his arms in front of their horrified friends.
He said he thought the taller of the two assailants - said to be 6ft 2in Ong-a-Kwie - was about to punch Jodie when he "swung his arm out" and stabbed her.
Mr Coyle said: "She was in shock at first. She started screaming continuously, very loud, about two minutes straight. After she stopped screaming she began to faint."
Jodie died before she arrived at hospital from a 18cm deep stab wound to the back which almost passed right through her body.
As news of the attack spread through social media, police rushed to find her father Peter, who was out celebrating his birthday in central London.
At first, investigators were in the dark, with no motive, no CCTV and no clear picture of what had happened in the "pitch black" park.
The case was cracked after a motorist came forward to report Petrovic's Corsa in a road nearby.
It was connected to a separate incident later that night when Petrovic was forced to abandon the car in the street after being robbed at knifepoint, jurors heard.
In the coming days, police seized key CCTV and phone evidence linking Petrovic to the rest of the defendants, who turned on each other at their Old Bailey trial, although the 16-year-old declined to give evidence.
Petrovic said he knew nothing of what was about to happen in the park.
Ong-a-Kwie admitted being in the park but said the 17-year-old had stabbed Jodie, thinking she was a youth called "Tash".
In turn, the 17-year-old said Ong-a-Kwie was responsible and had even confessed that he "messed up" before disposing on the knife and burning his clothes.
It can now be reported that Judge Wendy Joseph QC ruled out a jury site visit to Amy's Park, partly over concern that purple ribbons in remembrance of Jodie might prove too emotive.
The murderers will be sentenced on November 18 and both face life behind bars.
Judge Wendy Joseph QC thanked the jury for its eight-week service.
