
# Children's charity warns of professional looking scam pair working in and around the Wishaw area

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:36:27+00:00**

Author: **Ross Thomson**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/childrens-charity-warns-professional-looking-20815690)

A Wishaw charity is urging the public and businesses to be on the look-out for two scammers spotted in the area.
Angela Cook, from the Les Hoey DreamMaker Foundation, spoke out following online reports of two crooks claiming to be from a well known national charity going around businesses and homes in Wishaw.
Angela told the Wishaw Press: “They came into the charity’s base and said they were asking us to donate money as both of them were doing a run for the charity.
“They looked pretty professional with their clipboards but I told them we were a charity, not a business and then they headed off. I didn’t contact police as I wasn’t sure if they were genuine until I saw on social media they had targeted other people.
 
“The comments were that they had been spotted in and around Wishaw.
“It’s people like that who make others think twice before donating to charity. It’s heartbreaking.
“The people they are targeting, such as pensioners, will hand over their money as they believe it is going to a registered charity but it is going in someone’s back pocket.”
The scammers are described as white, aged between 18 and 21, slim build and short. Both are also described as having glasses with long hair.
One has light brown hair and another has dark brown hair. They are believed to be from the Tollcross area of Glaswgow.
Angela added: “Looking on social media it does appear they have been spotted across the town which is worrying. I believe they are from Glasgow so what were they doing in Wishaw?
“I saw a few comments from people saying they had seen them. I even saw a comment from a bus driver saying he had dropped them off. I hope nobody has given them money but I have my doubts.”
