
# And the smog returns

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:16:16+00:00**

Author: **Imran Adnan**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2092389/1-and-the-smog-returns/)

LAHORE: Due to the negligence of government agencies and irresponsible attitude of citizens, various cities of Punjab – including the provincial capital – are once again engulfed in smog which is causing respiratory and eye problems among the masses.
As per official statistics, the Air Quality Index (AQI) of Lahore touched 189 and 346 at Jail Road and Wagha Border respectively. While as per international standard, AQI ranging between 0 and 50 is considered satisfactory and air pollution poses a little or no risk. AQI value between 51 and 100 is acceptable; however, for some pollutants, there may be a moderate health concern but for a very small number of people who are unusually sensitive to air pollution. It shows that AQI value 101-150 is unhealthy for sensitive groups but it may not affect the general public. AQI ranging between 151 and 200 is unhealthy that may cause health effects on everyone while members of the sensitive groups may experience serious health effects. AQI value between 201 and 300 indicates health alert as everyone may experience more serious health effects. The hazardous level is indicated with AQI 301-500 as it is a public health emergency. The entire populations are more likely to be affected.
A senior official of Pakistan Metrological Department (PMD) warned that the soupy air in Lahore is hazardous to breathe, especially for young children. Haziness, throat, nose and eye irritation are warning signs of poor air quality in the city.
Following the outbreak of smog-related diseases, the Environment Protection Department (EPD) Punjab has launched a smog awareness campaign in different districts of the province to create awareness about health hazards.
According to EPD spokesman, the campaign has been launched on the special directions of Provincial Minister for Environment Protection Muhammad Rizwan, with an aim to create awareness about best practices to keep oneself safe and healthy during smog season. The EPD teams are distributing pamphlets and face masks among motorcyclists, motorists and pedestrians across the province and urged them to use face masks or handkerchief on the face while leaving the house to protect themselves from breathing problems and throat infection.
The teams briefed that the young children, the elderly, asthma and allergy patients should take extra measures to stay safe.
According to health experts, if the air quality continues to deteriorate, a series of health issues will arise for citizens. It will also shorten the average lifespan if the situation persists in the coming years.
As a preventive measure, EPD Director General Tanveer Ahmed Warraich said that brick kilns being operated on old technology will remain closed till December 30. If the problem of smog aggravates then the duration of the closure will be increased. Section 144 has been imposed throughout the province and brick kilns will remain closed from October 1 till December 31. Therefore, strict action will be taken for the burning residue of crops, tyres, rubbers and other things.
Warriach had expressed these views at a news conference held a couple of days ago. He said that till now 16 teams of the environment are working on dengue disease whereas 12 teams are working on anti-smog campaigns. The EPD department has sealed 177 units for spreading pollution whereas notices have also been issued to 193 units. FIRs have been registered against 22 factory owners.
He further said that four air quality stations are operational and the air quality index is presently at 287. He said that the Environment Protection Department is undertaking all possible steps to eradicate smog and strict action will be taken against those elements found involved in contributing to pollution.

        Published in The Express Tribune, November 3rd, 2019.
      
