
# Chelsea predicted XI for Ajax: The great top spot shot in Group H

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:00:43+00:00**

Author: **Travis Tyler**

Original: [The Pride of London](https://theprideoflondon.com/2019/11/04/chelsea-predicted-xi-ajax-great-top-spot-shot-group-h/)

When Frank Lampard’s Chelsea was drawn into this group, many knew things would be difficult. The loss to Valencia on opening dare, unfair as it may have felt, only increased those feelings. But now after three match days, the Blues are tied for first as they host the team they are tied with. A win would put Chelsea in a very comfortable position for the final two group matches. Ajax will not go down quietly, but Chelsea already turned up big against them once.
Arrizabalaga has his faults but he was the hero of the day against Watford. Even Ben Foster who stood on the shortest strand of hair he had all game had to go congratulate Arrizabalaga’s final moment save. Mind, Chelsea had complete control of that match before VAR decided to give Watford a life line, but all the same Arrizabalaga did what was asked of him.
Reece James is a very good player who probably does deserve to play more. But a side effect of the youth revolution is that many believe that every youth is as ready as Mason Mount or Tammy Abraham. James’ exploits last season at a very bad Wigan side papered over just how unpolished he can be at times. The injury has not helped him this season but there are moments that showcase why Azpilicueta will continue to keep his spot for a few months yet.
Kurt Zouma, 15, Center back, France
Zouma can somehow look completely immense while also looking somewhat clumsy at the same time. He held off Watford valiantly but his time on the ball is still rougher than desired and some of his decisions come off somewhat raw given his age and experience. Most of the time he can push through that but Chelsea will be keeping an eye on it. Antonio Rudiger and Andreas Christensen will want to walk right back in, but Zouma will do his best to stop them.
Fikayo Tomori, 29, Center back, England
Tomori still starts matches unevenly before flipping the switch and becoming Chelsea’s best center back. Smart opponents might take note that he needs to feel out the game to be his best and they might launch an early salvo at him to see what happens. But once he does settle he has been nigh on unbeatable on and off the ball this season. And while FIFA stats are ultimately, well, dumb, he is much faster than the numbers indicate as he has fought for.
Emerson was arguably Chelsea’s best player before his injury. He has finally returned to fitness and had a quiet game against Watford. As far as injury returns go, that is absolutely fine but he did not really stand out enough to guarantee another start. Fans are quick to blast Alonso as soon as his form dips down, but against Ajax he was in control of proceedings along his flank. Emerson may have another go, but Alonso might be the better short term choice.
