
# Yaya Toure sent off after 10 seconds of 'final appearance' in China

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:34:14+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/yaya-toure-sent-after-10-20794386)

Manchester City legend Yaya Toure was sent off just 10 seconds into Qingdao Huanghai's final game of the season on Saturday.
The midfielder, 36, aimed a kick at his opponent off the ball, and was dismissed following a VAR review.
The match is said to be Toure's final appearance in China, with his side going on to lose 2-1 to Nantong Zhiyun.
Despite the defeat, Qingdao Huanghai have secured promotion to the Chinese Super League as champions of Chinese League One after picking up 57 points from their 30 matches this season, with Toure contributing two goals and three assists in his 14 games since joining in July.
The Ivorian was given his marching orders for the third time in his career, and the first time since being sent off for Manchester City in a Champions League tie against CSKA Moscow five years ago.
Mladen Kovacevic's second half brace secured the win for Nantong Zhiyun, but the result didn't put a dampener on Qingdao Huanghai's promotion celebrations.
When they clinched their first ever spot in Chinese Super League last week, Toure tweeted: "Today we made history. Promotion!
"Next season Qingdao Huanghai FC will be where they should be... The Chinese Super League.
"I'm proud to help make this happen but I want the title. One more game to go."
Toure is currently without a contract for next season, and there have been suggestions that he won't renew with his current club.
The midfielder - who picked up 101 caps for the Ivory Coast - won seven trophies in eight successful years with City, including three Premier League titles and the FA Cup in 2011, when he scored the winning goal in the Wembley final against Stoke City.
