
# Starbucks’ Holiday Cups Are Coming Back On Thursday. Hopefully, You’ll Get One.

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Micheline Maynard**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/michelinemaynard/2019/11/06/starbucks-holiday-cups-are-coming-back-on-thursday-hopefully-youll-get-one/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2803328596&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

It’s November, and that means the holiday drink lineup is returning to Starbucks. So are those reusable red holiday cups that are a giveaway on the first day when the holiday drinks go one sale.
You might remember what happened in 2018, when Starbucks had far fewer cups available than customers who wanted them. (I was among the people who tried to get one.)
This year, Starbucks is making it clear that you need to be prompt.
“Come in early tomorrow to get a free reusable red cup with the purchase of your favorite handcrafted holiday beverage,” Starbucks said in a email to its Rewards members on Wednesday.
“Hurry—these won't last long, and we only have a limited number. Available at participating stores.”
Through Jan. 6, customers can bring the cups back after 2 p.m. to get 50 cents off a grande size holiday beverage. And, the company hopes many people will do so.
“This year, we have made great strides to create inventory in all of our stores, so actually merchandise is in stores now, and we feel confident about securing a large supply of red cups,” Starbucks’ Chief Operating Officer Rosalind Brewer said Monday, in an interview with CNBC.
What’s this year’s holiday drinks lineup? Well, it’s going to look pretty familiar to people who’ve purchased the Starbucks holiday beverages in the past.
It includes the Toasted White Chocolate Mocha, the Eggnog Latte and the Peppermint Mocha, which is now 17 years old.
American customers won’t find the Gingerbread Latte, although it will be available in Canada. (Here’s why brands offer special flavors – or flavours – in the True North.)
I won’t miss the Gingerbread Latte, but I was hoping Starbucks would bring back the Juniper Latte.
It had a decided European sensibility, but it was a flavor that generated a mixed reaction. I thought it was pleasantly sophisticated; others thought it reminded them of Pine Sol or cheap car air freshener.
Along with the holiday drinks, Starbucks also is teaming up with Alaska Airlines on a special tie-in.
Starting on Thursday, anyone traveling with a Starbucks holiday cup will receive priority boarding on all Alaska Airlines flights. The promotion lasts through Sunday.
The Starbucks cup holders will be allowed to board in the“espresso” lane (clever, huh?) following Group B, which is the third priority group.
Customers can bring any Starbucks beverage, as long as it is in a holiday cup, and it’s okay to finish your drink and just carry the cup on board.
Alaska Air, which has had an association with Starbucks for years, is promising additional Starbucks goodies for some passengers on some flights.
Now, you may be aware that Starbucks is testing compostable cups at the airports in San Francisco, Minneapolis-St. Paul and Atlanta. So, the holiday cups won’t be available at some outlets in those places, only holiday sleeves.
These, plus the regular cup, will earn Alaska Air passengers the early boarding priority.
The fourth quarter is a big deal for Starbucks, which gets a boost not only from its holiday drinks, but from carry over sales of Pumpkin Spice items as well as people purchasing gift cards.
So, the holiday focus makes perfect sense, given the company’s recent run up in its stock price. Starbucks shares are up 26 percent this year.
