
# Man who injected heroin into baby's mouth and tried to kill ex dies in prison

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:47:31+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/man-who-injected-heroin-babys-20823136)

An attempted murderer who tried to kill his ex and injected heroin into his baby daughter's mouth has died while serving his prison sentence.
Roger Weir, 52, attacked the victim with a meat cleaver, and squirted the Class A drug into the baby's mouth to "get at" her.
He was behind bars at HMP Berwyn in Wrexham when he was admitted to the town’s Maelor hospital on October 16 with severe abdominal pains.
He died in the intensive therapy unit 12 days later.
A post-mortem examination was carried out by Home Office pathologist Dr Brian Rodgers who gave the provisional cause of death as cancer of the liver.
At a brief hearing at Ruthin John Gittins, senior coroner for North Wales East and Central, said it was mandatory to hold an inquest as Weir was in custody at the time.
 
The inquest was adjourned to a date to be fixed.
Weir, of Poole in Dorset, was jailed for 18 years at Winchester Crown Court in 2012 after admitting attempting to murder his ex-girlfriend Gillian Blackmore.
The court heard how he went to her flat in Eastleigh on May 7, 2012, armed with a specially adapted flare gun capable of firing bullets.
He told her “I want you dead” before firing the gun at her, then beat her with a baton and attacked her with a meat cleaver.
Miss Blackmore managed to escape and raise the alarm, and police found her covered in blood.
Weir told police he was angry that she had a new partner, a police community support officer.
The court also heard how he squirted heroin into the mouth of his 20-month-old daughter to “get at” Miss Blackmore.
He admitted administering a noxious substance but the prosecution accepted he had not wanted to murder the toddler, having acted “in the heat of the moment”.
The baby spat most of the heroin out and was not harmed.
A Prison Service spokesman said: “HMP Berwyn prisoner Roger Weir died in hospital.
“As with all deaths in custody there will be an independent investigation by the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman.”
