
# Govt urged to render assistance to develop night fish market in Myeik

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Zaw Moe Oo (Myeik)**

Original: [Eleven Media Group Co., Ltd](https://elevenmyanmar.com/news/govt-urged-to-render-assistance-to-develop-night-fish-market-in-myeik)

 
Trade activities between buyers and sellers are good at the nigh fish market within the international fish auction market in Myeik, Taninthayi Region, but shopkeepers and observers have called for government assistance for greater market development.
Night fish mongers are beginning to flock to the fish auction market in Myeik and it has been visited by members of parliament and members of civil society organizations.
"Openly speaking, we have long wanted such a fish market. Eighty percent of the people in Taninthayi Region have to rely on fishery industry. But most fish go to Thailand. As the United States has limited the reduction in taxes on fish export from Thailand, there will be greater opportunity for Myanmar. So we expect that the fish market will be more successful. We must try to develop the fish market. It must become a national level market and we even need to reduce taxes. There are reports that the State Counsellor will come here on November 22 or 23 to hold a forum. Cooperation is necessary to do things better here before the forum so that we can have a better prospect," said Tin Ko Ko Oo from Taninthayi Region Fishery Partnership.
Myanmar Investment Commission has approved the international fish auction market with an investment of US$70 million. The investment of US$10 million has been made for the first time. But since then, there have been delays at the union level in taking over the investment money.
 
 
 
