
# Five things to watch out for in qualifying for the United States Grand Prix!

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:10:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Newton**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49255/five-things-to-watch-out-for-in-qualifying-for-the-united-states-grand-prix-.html)


        So, the practice sessions are over and it's nearly time for qualifying, but what should you be watching out for during the session? Here's five things we think you should be looking to see during quali! Any we missed? Comment below...
      
Max Verstappen topped two of the three practice sessions, including FP3, so he'll be looking to put right what went wrong last week as a penalty took away his pole position. The Dutchman was on fire in qualifying in Mexico last week and if he brings that form to Austin then he could be a good bet for pole!
Charles Leclerc suffered engine issues in FP3 and he had to pull over, and with rumours of a gearbox penalty floating around, there could be a few positions to add to his qualifying position...
Albon has got to show Red Bull why he deserves that seat at Red Bull Racing, and a solid qualifying performance could cement his seat. He's had a few accidents in qualifying sessions this season, so he'll be desperate to avoid any of that and will be looking to get amongst the front runners.
McLaren look pretty quick, with Lando Norris shocking everybody by setting the third fastest time in FP3. Kimi Raikkonen and Pierre Gasly also look quick, with the Renaults in an around the top ten as well. Who could be making their way into the top ten today?
Track limits could be a feature of the session, with Sebastian Vettel having a lap chalked off in third practice. If anyone runs wide at turn 19 in qualifying, expect the stewards to come down hard and scrap their laptimes. Watch those track limits guys...
