
# Preview: Bournemouth v Manchester United

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:01:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/EnglishPremiership/preview-bournemouth-v-manchester-united-20191101)

Cape Town - Marcus Rashford, Harry Maguire and Victor Lindelof are all touch and go for Manchester United's trip to face Bournemouth on Saturday.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is “hopeful” of having all three available, but Axel Tuanzebe, Nemanja Matic and Luke Shaw are likely to remain out until after the international break.
Rashford bounced back from his penalty miss at Norwich City last Sunday to score from the spot in the Red Devils’ midweek Carabao Cup victory at Chelsea – before winning the tie with a superb late free-kick.
“Since Anthony (Martial) has come back, Marcus has flourished,” said Solskjaer, who is considering deploying the two together as a strike pairing.
“He’s probably happier facing goal and being direct, driving at people, taking players on rather than being a target man with his back to goal. I’m sure we’ll see more of him up front as a (number) nine, in a two with Anthony (Martial), in a three like he did at Norwich or out wide as he did at Chelsea.”
Meanwhile, Harry Wilson could be restored to the Bournemouth starting line-up.
Wilson was dropped from the team against Watford last week after an ineffectual display in the clash with Norwich City on October 19, but neither of the Cherries’ widemen covered themselves in glory at Vicarage Road.
That could open the door for the on-loan Liverpool star to return, with manager Eddie Howe admitting the state of his options is similar to last week.
David Brooks is not yet ready to return from an ankle injury that required surgery in the summer and Junior Stanislas is still working his way back to full fitness.
Howe mentioned “a couple of other little niggles” in his squad, but “nothing too serious”, so there should not be any concern over top-scorer Callum Wilson, who was substituted at Watford.
Dan Gosling has returned to training and is getting closer to a first-team return, according to the Bournemouth manager.
“He brings us that eye for goal from midfield, that work rate and desire he shows every time he plays. He’s a big player for us, we’ve missed him,” said Howe.
