
# Diablo 4’s Release Date? The Director Says It’s Not Even Coming ‘Blizzard Soon’

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/04/diablo-4s-release-date-the-director-says-its-not-even-coming-blizzard-soon/)

Blizzard spent most of BlizzCon hyping up two big releases, Overwatch 2 and Diablo 4, though we ended the weekend without either getting actual release dates. Overwatch 2 seems like it might be a little closer to release than Diablo 4, which apparently is still years (and years) away.Blizzard showed off a lot from Diablo 4, so much so that it seemed like a release could in fact be somewhat close, at least within the next year or so. We got a nine minute cinematic, a three minute gameplay trailer, about 75 minutes of panels covering pretty much every aspect of the game, D4 was playable at the show and featured in a massive Game Informer cover story. That’s…a substantial amount of previewing.
And yet when pressed about when Diablo 4 is actually coming out, game director Luis Barriga minced no words:
“A game of this scope takes time. We’re not coming out soon, not even Blizzard soon.” Barriga says the current, playable build is the “first early step in the journey.”
“Blizzard soon” is a common community meme where Blizzard often uses “soon” to describe things and that can mean anywhere from a few weeks to years, but it’s usually somewhat close. But Barriga is making it clear that Diablo 4 is genuinely far away.
It seems a little odd to me, given how much was shown and even playable, but I remember hearing about how developers often bend over backwards making builds to show off at events even when the final product is not anywhere near coming together. See the Anthem debut that was pretty much crafted entirely for an E3 preview and was totally changed when the game was actually released. I do wonder if Blizzard just worked hard on just a BlizzCon build to reassure people D4 existed and was coming, but the final product may be wildly different than what was featured at the show.
Strangely, Diablo 4 is being described as being made for PC, Xbox One and PS4, though next generation consoles arrive in exactly a year, no doubt long before Diablo 4 is going to come out. Maybe they’re just assuming the game will be backward compatible on the new consoles, but I found it odd to cite consoles that will be very much last-gen by the time D4 gets here.
Additionally, while I know that “a game of this scope takes time,” it has been seven years already since Diablo 3 came out, and in that time, Blizzard has released Overwatch, WoW and Hearthstone expansions, and not a whole lot else. We know they were working on a StarCraft FPS that got cancelled but still, a decade between Diablo games seems a bit much in this day and age, even though yes, there were twelve years between Diablo 2 and 3. Though it’s not like these games are in development that entire time, it’s a matter of what’s being prioritized.
The point is, I would not expect Diablo 4 to arrive any time before late 2021, but probably even 2022 or beyond. That does seem a bit crazy considering just how much we saw from it, and how most AAA games are now not showing off much until the year of their release these days, but it seems Diablo 4 just wanted to assure people of its existence and overall goals, but make it clear we are settling in for a long wait, despite what’s been shown. An odd choice perhaps, but that’s where we are.
