
# Rambert2 review – exciting and fearless fresh-faced dancing

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:40:41+00:00**

Author: **Lyndsey Winship**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/stage/2019/nov/05/rambert2-review-sadlers-wells)


        Sadler’s Wells, LondonA group of young prestige dancers from all over the world throw themselves utterly into a uneven triple bill
      
The deal with Rambert’s sister company, Rambert2, is that you can only dance with the company for a year. So these 12 young dancers, just out of training, put everything they’ve got into every minute on stage, like a 12-month audition for the rest of their dancing lives. The new works created for them are uneven but their commitment is total, the energy fearless and forthright – that’s pretty exciting to watch.
Jermaine Spivey is himself best known as an incredible dancer, with Crystal Pite’s company Kidd Pivot, but he’s still feeling his way in choreography. His piece Terms and Conditions is most revelatory in the introduction of American dancer Prince Lyons, who drags your eyes to him and no one else, with wildness, funk and elegant finesse all in one. There’s more of Lyons in the duet Sin, extracted from Sidi Larbi Cherkaoui and Damien Jalet’s award-winning Babel(words) from 2010. It’s a ravenous, murderous power play between Lyons and Dutch dancer Minouche Van de Ven, and they bring strength and slick speed to its acrobatic manoeuvres, Van de Ven swinging, wrapped and twisted round Lyons’s body, with the sharp snap of a flip book. Watch out for these two.
Last year’s Rambert2 highlight was Sharon Eyal’s Killer Pig, and a new work, Sama, from American choreographer Andrea Miller might have been commissioned to provide some of the same raw, aggressively clubby energy. It begins feeling a bit spiritual – like, gap year in Asia spiritual – and ends up full-on full-moon party. Miller’s mission is to address what she calls the “apocalypse of the body”, the numbing of physical experience in subordination to digital life. It’s not as subversive or intimidatingly cool as Eyal’s work, but with the help of haze, heavy bass, flashing lights and relentless rhythm, Miller plugs into some primal pulse, awakening (and ultimately pummelling) the senses, the dancers living intensely in their bodies. And yet, at the same time they move with the self-possession of those knowing they’re being looked at, and knowing how good they look. That’s what it’s like to be 20 – and this talented.
• On UK tour until 10 June.
