
# Sisters! Sarah Jessica Parker Confirms The Hocus Pocus Cast Has Signed On For Sequel

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:30:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483784/sisters-sarah-jessica-parker-confirms-the-hocus-pocus-cast-has-signed-on-for-sequel)

Written By
Halloween is a time for candy, not gifts, but Hocus Pocus fans got a major present when the news broke a couple of weeks ago that not only would the holiday classic be getting a sequel film for Disney+, but it was looking to bring back the original cast. And if there was any doubt, we now know that the Sanderson Sisters will indeed take flight again. That’s because Sarah Jessica Parker has confirmed that the original Hocus Pocus cast has signed on for a sequel, saying:
Sarah Jessica Parker posted an image from the “I Put A Spell On You” scene in Hocus Pocus on her Instagram account for Halloween, and a fan asked her about the possibility of a sequel. The actress responded with this happy confirmation that herself, Bette Midler and Kathy Najimy have all agreed to appear in Hocus Pocus 2. That’s encouraging because although the initial report about the sequel stated that Disney wanted the original actors to reprise their roles, that wasn’t a guarantee that they would.
So if there was any concern that the trio wouldn’t return for the sequel, that obstacle has been cleared and they are all signed on. She may not even remember the original Hocus Pocus, but based on her Instagram post, Sarah Jessica Parker seems happy to be coming back for Hocus Pocus 2, and fans of the original are undoubtedly thrilled as well (I can't speak for the haters).
Of course, just because the Black Flame Candle is now lit doesn’t mean we’ll be watching Hocus Pocus 2 in time for Christmas. As the actress who played the dumb-witted siren Sarah Sanderson said, now that they are all signed on, they just have to wait and so will we.
Disney just brought on Jen D’Angelo to write the script for Hocus Pocus 2, so that will need to be completed before this film can start moving forward. Nevertheless, having the original trio of actresses aboard is a major first step towards delivering the Hocus Pocus sequel that fans of the original want to see.
What’s funny about having this confirmation from Sarah Jessica Parker is that for a long time, it didn’t seem like a Hocus Pocus sequel would bring back the original cast. At one point, Tina Fey was working on a Hocus Pocus movie of some sort, and a couple of years back, we heard about the film getting a remake for the Disney Channel with an all-new cast.
That was odd considering that Sarah Jessica Parker, Kathy Najimy and Bette Midler have made it known they wanted to return. Needless to say, fans of Hocus Pocus did not like this remake idea, so it’s cool that two years later, we now have confirmation of a Hocus Pocus 2 with the original cast.
We still don’t know what this movie will be about other than the fact that we’ll see the Sanderson Sisters again. There was a sequel novel released last year, but it’s unclear how much inspiration, if any, the sequel film will draw from that. We also don’t know whether any of the other cast members from the 1993 classic will be returning, like Omri Katz, Thora Birch or Vinessa Shaw. But for now, fans can run amok knowing that the Sanderson Sisters are back.
We’ll keep you updated on Hocus Pocus 2 as news develops. In the meantime, check out our 2019 Release Schedule to see what movies you can look forward to this year.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
