
# Have you downloaded the November 2019 security patch?

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:27:47+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/have-you-downloaded-november-2019-security-patch?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Daniel Bader / Android Central
      
Yesterday, November 4, Google began rolling out its November 2019 security patch to Pixel devices. As usual, the security patch comes with a host of fixes for various bugs and vulnerabilities.
For Pixel 4 handsets, specifically, this month's patch also brings improvements to the camera and the 90Hz Smooth Display.
Taking a look through the AC forums, the update is gradually starting to make its way to folks.
What about you? Have you downloaded the November 2019 security patch?

        Join the conversation in the forums!
      

        Unlimited Means Limited AT&T will pay $60 million after hiding data throttling The FTC has settled its case with AT&T for $60 million. AT&T was accused of failing to inform customers of its data throttling practice while marketing plans as "unlimited."
      

        It's Back This new Android Auto app fixes a problem Google created for newer phones Android Auto for phone screens has finally been released for users who lost access to Android Auto after the Android 10 update.
      

        A decent mid-ranger The Nokia 6.2 arrives in the U.S. with Android One for $249 The Nokia 6.2 with triple rear cameras and stock Android is now available in the U.S. for $249.
      

        Break up with Chrome Time to dump Chrome: 8 alternative desktop web browsers If you getting frustrated with the lack of privacy, slower speeds or difficulty using extensions in Chrome, it's time to switch to one of these web browsers.
      
