
# Meera Sodha’s vegan recipe for no-waste potato masala toasties

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:30:18+00:00**

Author: **Meera Sodha**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/food/2019/nov/02/meera-sodha-no-waste-potato-masala-toastie-vegan-recipe)


        A thrifty and filling spice-packed treat with a side of potato-peel crisps
      
In the corner of my aunt Bhabi’s kitchen sits an ancient relic: a 1980s Breville toastie machine. The buttons don’t work, the flex is frayed and the red light to indicate that it’s on barely flickers with life.
I was sceptical that it could make lunch for eight of us, using some potatoes from the vegetable drawer, some bits from the freezer, bread and a few spices, but it delivered not only a golden conveyer belt of Bhabi’s spiced potato masala sandwiches, but a thwack of nostalgia, too. A taste of my childhood: carefree days and simple things lovingly prepared.
This is a no-waste recipe by virtue of it using (mostly) non-perishables such as frozen veg and spices, while the potato peelings are turned into crisps to eat with your sandwich. You don’t need a sandwich maker, either; you could just pan fry them instead. A thin layer of mango chutney or aubergine pickle inside the toastie will bring an extra touch of joy.
Prep 10 minCook 45 minMakes 4, to feed 2-4
500g floury potatoes (about 2 large ones)Rapeseed oilSalt⅔ tsp cumin seeds1 green finger chilli, very finely chopped100g frozen peas, defrosted 100g frozen sweetcorn, defrosted¼ tsp turmeric¾ tsp garam masala2 pinches sugar1 tbsp lemon juice8 slices breadSunflower spread, such as Biona
Heat the oven to 220C (200C fan)/425F/ gas 7. Wash the potatoes, then peel and chop into large chunks. Spread the peelings out on a large, nonstick baking tray, drizzle with oil, sprinkle with salt and bake for 10 minutes, until crisp, then put to one side.
Put the potato pieces in a small saucepan, cover with cold water, add a big pinch of salt and put on a medium heat. Bring to a boil, then turn down to a simmer and cook for about 10 minutes, until tender. Drain, tip back into the pan, leave to cool, then chop into 1cm cubes.
Heat two tablespoons of oil in a frying pan over a medium to high heat and, once hot, add the cumin and chilli and leave to sizzle for 30 seconds. Add the potatoes, cook for four minutes until hot, then add the peas and sweetcorn, and cook for three minutes more. Stir in the turmeric, a teaspoon of salt, the garam masala, sugar and lemon juice, then taste and adjust the salt, lemon or chilli, if need be.
To make the toasties, butter one side of each of two slices of bread. Spoon a quarter of the mix on to the buttered side of one slice, then firmly press the buttered side of the second slice down on top. Repeat with the remaining bread and filling, so you have four sandwiches.
To cook, either toast in a sandwich toaster until bronze, or wipe out the frying pan and heat over a low to medium heat. Drizzle a little oil into the pan and, when hot, gently lower in a sandwich or two and cook for three minutes on each side, until golden and crisp. Repeat with the rest of the sandwiches.
Cut each sandwich in half diagonally and serve with chilli sauce, mango chutney or ketchup and the crisps.
