
# Longer season helping, says Carl Mchugh on young ISL imports

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:00:24+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/01/longer-season-helping-says-carl-mchugh-on-young-isl-imports?utm_medium=rss)


        From 28.2 in 2016 when eight teams, the average age in ISL has come down to 26.2 now, which was due to the franchises getting younger imports and ATK’s Carl McHugh feels it is due to the season getting longer. The Irishman can play as a central defender, central midfielder, and left-back.
      
Colombian striker Stiven Mendoza remains the gold standard but a number of young foreigners are using the Indian Super League (ISL) this season to get noticed. Step forward, Carl McHugh (ATK), Jose Leudo (NorthEast United), Nikola Krcmarevic (Kerala Blasters), Mislav Komorski (NorthEast United), Martin Chaves (NorthEast United), Panagoitis Triadis (NorthEast United), Diawandou Diagne (Odisha FC), Jairo Rodrigues (Kerala Blasters), Serge Kevyn (Mumbai City FC) and Sergio Castel (Jamshedpur FC). They are in their twenties who joined ISL this year, some on long-term deals. Hugo Boumous, 24, renewed his association with FC Goa with a new three-year deal.
“I came here on a short contract but now I feel we are building something good and I want to be part of that,” said Boumous, who joined FC Goa in 2017-18, to Hindustan Times.
On a two-year deal, 26-year-old McHugh struck a gorgeous left-foot volley away to Kerala Blasters on his debut. The Irishman can play as a central defender, central midfielder, and left-back.
McHugh joined ATK after three seasons at Motherwell in the Scottish Premiership and was with Plymouth Argyle and Bradford City in England earlier after beginning as a professional at Reading FC in 2011. McHugh has been a part of Ireland’s under-17, under-19, and under-21 teams. From 28.2 in 2016 when eight teams, the average age in ISL has come down to 26.2 now, which was due to the franchises getting younger imports.
“The season has got longer, that has probably helped. We are six months now, we were three months before and that is probably more attractive to young (foreign) players. The standard is improving and that will help attract younger players rather than those who are towards the end of their careers. I feel I am coming into the best years of my career,” said McHugh.
21-year-old Chaves was groomed at Montevideo’s famous club Penarol for five years before being loaned to Brazil club Gremio. Chaves signed for Juventud in Uruguay’s premier division last January before making his move to India.
“I was looking for a fresh challenge that provides me with lots of game time. The ISL is broadcast in many countries and I feel there is a chance to catch the eye of bigger leagues in Asia if you perform well here. I have seen players from ISL go on to play in Ligue 1 (top tier in France) and MLS (Major League Soccer in the US) and I aspire to do the same one day,” said Chaves.
The Uruguayan was referring to Mendoza who is now with Amiens in Ligue 1. 27-year-old Mendoza played the first two ISL seasons - his tally of 13 goals in 16 games helping Chennaiyin FC win the title in 2015. Mendoza joined New York City FC in the USA’s Major League Soccer (MLS) in 2016 and transferred to the French top tier club in 2018 from Brazil’s Corinthians.
McHugh said he spoke to Scottish international Stephen Pearson, who played for ATK in 2016, before coming to Kolkata. The initial reaction to his joining ISL was met by “surprise” and “shock” back home, he said. “(But) I felt I have just got to that stage in my career where I wanted a new experience. (This) was a big opportunity for me to go an experience a different culture. I have really enjoyed the experience and long may it continue,” said McHugh.
