
# 12 Brazilians Who Played For Real Madrid

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:26:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/12-brazilians-who-played-for-real-madrid/666946)

Starlet Rodrygo announced himself with a brilliant hat-trick for Real Madrid in the UEFA Champions League on Wednesday night, but who are the biggest Brazilian names to have represented Los Blancos? Here are 12 Selecao stars who wore the famous white jersey!

        
          Click through the gallery above to see 12 famous Brazilians who played for Real, according to Transfermarkt.
        
      
Former Santos prodigy Rodrygo has made an impressive start to life at the Spanish giants, having already scored five goals in his first six senior matches for the club.
The 18-year-old has the chance to follow in the footsteps of many great Brazilians who have played for the 13-time Champions League winners, as does his teammate Vinicius Junior, although he seems to have fallen down the pecking order under Zinedine Zidane of late.
Rodrygo scored three times in his team's 6-0 win over Galatasaray on Wednesday night, and provided the assist for another goal, showing plenty of promise for the future.

        
          Choose the right midfielder for SA’s Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt!
        
      
The Brazilian with the most appearances for Real is legendary left-back Roberto Carlos, who played 527 matches in 11 years for the club. Carlos is still remembered fondly by Los Blancos' loyal fans, leaving a legacy Rodrygo will hope to emulate.
In 2002, Ronaldo Nazario joined the LaLiga giants from Inter Milan, and went on to spend five years in Madrid. The former striker, widely considered the greatest No. 9 of all time, had fans on the edge of their seats when he was on the field, scoring 104 times in 177 matches for Real.
Another big-name Selecao star who wore the iconic white shirt was Robinho, who, like Rodrygo, came through Santos' youth academy in Brazil.

        
          Real Madrid Transfer News: Five Out, Five In?
        
      
The likes of Kaka and Julio Baptista also previously played for the club, while two of the team's current Brazilian stars also feature – click through the gallery above to see 12 top Selecao superstars who have represented Real!
