
# As Texas cleans up homeless encampments in Austin, long-term solution is unclear

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:16:34+00:00**

Author: **Madeleine Rivera**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/us/austin-texas-homeless-encampments-health-safety)

AUSTIN, Texas -- As state officials begin cleaning up homeless camps, they are still trying to figure out how to deal with the growing crisis.
Joseph Nichols organized his belongings on Monday morning underneath State Highway 71. Others scrambled to take down their tents and pack up their things ahead of the scheduled cleanup.
“They’re basically, OK, you want it that way? Then, that’s the way it’ll be. We’ll go to the woods,” said Nichols.

        
          CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
        
      

        
          2020 DEMS AREN'T GOING FAR ENOUGH TO ADDRESS CALIFORNIA'S HOMELESS CRISIS, ADVOCATES CLAIM
        
      
Nichols moved back to Austin in February after making stops in Arizona and Kentucky. He first moved to the city in 2011 but struggled to get a job. Faced with a slew of health issues and a lack of money, he found himself on the streets.
“I did OK at times, but I never really got to that point where I had enough funds to get through a month’s living. If I had a month’s living, I would’ve had a couple of paychecks, and I wouldn’t be at this situation,” said Nichols.
As Austin tries to grapple with how to deal with the city's homelessness crisis, it began cleaning up a growing number of camps amid health and safety concerns.
In July, the city council passed an ordinance allowing homeless people to camp on public streets as long as they do not pose a threat to themselves and others. The action sparked an immediate backlash.

        
          AS HOMELESS CAMPS CONTINUE TO SPRING UP IN AUSTIN, GOV. ABBOTT ORDERS CLEANUP EFFORT
        
      
“I live down the street here. And, everyone asks me what the hell happened here. It’s pretty disgusting. I don’t think it’s safe for the people that live there,” said resident Jeff Crawford.
