
# Tyson Fury rules out I'm A Celebrity stint after Tommy Fury's Love Island success

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:59:33+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Wallis**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/tyson-fury-rules-out-im-20825488)

Tyson Fury will not star in this year's series of I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out Of Here! despite recent reports suggesting he was in the line-up.
The legendary boxer, 31, was previously thought to appear in this year's celebrity jungle line-up but the claims have now been ruled out as he is set to return to WWE this Friday .
The Gypsy King made his official WWE debut at the Crown Jewel event against Braun Strowman in Saudi Arabia last week and is now returning to the wrestling organisation.
Fury signed up to WWE last month as he continues to promote his rematch with Deontay Wilder next February.
"I've got a big fella called Deontay Wilder to see to on February 22 and we'll go from there," he recently said.
Reports of Tyson's continuing WWE success come after the 6’9 heavyweight champ’s odds of entering the celebrity jungle plummeted from 20/1 down to 7/2 in the past 24 hours.
After his spell in the WWE and the launch of his new book, reports suggested that I'm A Celeb bosses were keen to get the unbeaten boxer into camp in the Australian Outback.
Rumours speculated that his younger brother, Tommy Fury's recent stint in popular ITV2 dating show Love Island was how the Furys quickly established themselves as household names.
I’m A Celebrity returns to screens next weekend and lasts around a month, giving Fury an inadequate 10 weeks to prepare for his rematch and quashing the rumours.
The 2019 series is set to be better than ever with the jungle reunion of presenting duo Ant and Dec .
Ant McPartlin will return to his presenting role after stepping down from his TV duties last year following his drink-driving arrest.
Last year, ITV star Holly Willoughby jetted out to the sunny Outback for three weeks to film alongside Ant's co-star Dec Donnelly.
Ant and Dec are set to welcome a whole galaxy of stars from the showbiz world into the jungle and viewers will watch their favourite stars come face to face with snakes, spiders, rats and more .
The biggest name is Caitlyn Jenner, who reportedly agreed a staggering £500,000 fee with I'm A Celeb bosses.
Good Morning Britain host Kate Garraway, Coronation Street's Andrew Whyment and ex-EastEnders star Jacqueline Jossa are said to have signed up.
While Capital FM breakfast host Roman Kemp, Made in Chelsea's Jamie Laing and newly engaged TOWIE star Olivia Attwood are also rumoured to be heading into camp.

        *I'm A Celebrity returns on Sunday November 17 at 9pm on ITV
      
