
# Shoppers bewildered by ASOS chain skirt and say clothes get 'worse and worse'

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:12:09+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/style/shopping/shoppers-bewildered-asos-chain-skirt-20789841)

It's no secret that ASOS sell some rather bizarre items.
From faux wireless headphones to a skirt that people think looks like a "bin bag".
But one of their latest offerings is bound to boggle you.
The online retailer is selling a £65 skirt called the 'Kikiriki chain detail cutout skirt with pu panel detail in metal'.
And it might just be the most ridiculous piece of clothing we've ever seen, with a strip of leather between the legs to cover modesty and chains holding it together around the bum and thighs.
 
The website description says the garment is "cut close to the body" and they certainly aren't kidding.
The body-hugging skirt shows off plenty of skin, with exposed areas on the buttocks and around the bikini line.
It doesn't exactly look like something you'd be able to wear a comfy pair of knickers underneath.
A picture of the skirt was shared on the parody Instagram account, @asbos_sos where they compared it to a Halloween costume.
They wrote: "This Halloween go as that thing u found in ur parents drawers when u were 12."
Over 1,000 people have liked the post so far with many taking the time to comment on it.
One person was less than impressed and said ASOS outfits just keep getting "worse and worse".
They commented: "Jesus Christ they get worse and worse."
Another user replied: "Looks a bit chilly for trick or treating..."
A third simply added: "Lol omg."
