
# Kellogg launches plant-based meal delivery service with Deliveroo: ‘It is important we are bold’

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Katy Askew**

Original: [FoodNavigator.com](https://www.foodnavigator.com/Article/2019/11/05/Kellogg-launches-plant-based-meal-delivery-service-with-Deliveroo-It-is-important-we-are-bold)


        Cereal giant Kellogg is launching a new plant-based meal delivery service with Deliveroo in a bid to extend its brands outside of the breakfast occasion and explore new channels.
      
The company is rolling out Kellogg’s Kitchen Creations, a delivery only meal service that will be exclusively available on Deliveroo in the UK.
The concept launched in East London this month and is serving up vegetarian and vegan dishes created by teams of Kellogg’s Kitchen Creations chefs. The menu of meals, snacks and sweet treats incorporates Kellogg’s well-known brands, including Rice Krispies, Kellogg’s Corn Flakes and Bran Flakes.
Dishes available include Italian cuisine inspired items like vegan roasted miso squash and Rice Krispies risotto; or fresh pasta with Kellogg’s Corn Flakes and Bran Flakes served with porcini mushroom, spring onion and lentils.
Tapping demand for healthy options, the plant-inspired menu includes falafel wraps and grilled halloumi with barley tabbouleh – both made with Kellogg’s Bran Flakes as well as savory waffles made with Kellogg’s All bran original, spinach, poached egg and avocado.
The company’s development chefs have also made ‘better-for-you’ fast food choices such as hot dogs containing All Bran, beetroot, oats and lentils alongside snacks like cheesy Corn Flakes cheese bites.
Additionally, Kellogg’s Kitchen has developed a number of dessert items, such as flapjack sweet cereal pizzas and Nutri-grain cheese cake bars.
“The Kellogg’s Kitchen creations is a Kellogg’s start up. It has set up the kitchen, worked with chefs to create the menu and is working exclusively with Deliveroo on the delivery of the food to consumers,”​ Ben Ellis, manager Kellogg’s Kitchen Creations, told FoodNavigator.
Ellis said that the initiative was the first time Kellogg would deliver meals and snacks using recipes containing its cereals and snacks direct to consumer.
“Kellogg’s is always looking for opportunities to engage new shoppers. This is a brand new channel for Kellogg’s, it is important we are bold and try new channels to engage with new audiences. The menu offers a balance of health and treat, repositioning Kellogg’s most famous brands and enables consumers to experience the brands as they never have before.”​
As well as marking an important foray into the meal delivery space, Ellis also noted that the venture would enable Kellogg to extend its brands outside the breakfast category.
According to research from Euromonitor International, while UK cereal sales grew in 2018 this was largely the consequence of premiumisation and growing interest in hot cereals, muesli and granola, which benefited from their healthy reputation. The ongoing backlash against high sugar levels in many cereal brands meant that while Kellogg remained the ‘leading branded player’ in UK breakfast cereals it did see its market share ‘decline slightly’ in 2018.
In its most recent quarterly report, for the third quarter of 2019, Kellogg’s said European sales dipped 1% on currency headwinds. In cereal the company said ‘consumption increased slightly’ led by the UK and Russia.
In this slow-growth environment, efforts to extend the appeal of Kellogg’s blockbuster brands outside the breakfast aisle could provide a route to long-term gains.
Kellogg’s Kitchen Creations will open through Deliveroo Editions hubs of delivery-only ‘super kitchens’, bringing meals direct to consumers’ homes in under 30 minutes.
Deliveroo already works with over 80,000 restaurants and takeaways, as well as 60,000 delivery riders. Justin Landsberger, director at Deliveroo, predicted the partnership will benefit from Kellogg’s brand recognition.
“Kellogg’s cereals are a staple of every kitchen across the country, we can’t wait to work with the team. At Deliveroo, innovation is at our core, so we’re excited to partner with Kellogg’s and create some exciting new foodie options inspired by their most popular products.”​
Ellis added Kellogg will be monitoring consumer reactions with a view to further rollout. "We’re excited to see how people react to the food we are offering and if it’s something we can continue to do in other parts of the UK in the future.”​
