
# ASC panel dismisses fraud allegations against Proforma Capital

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:54:31+00:00**

Author: **Amanda Stephenson, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/asc-panel-dismisses-fraud-allegations-against-proforma-capital)


        An Alberta Securities Commission panel has dismissed allegations of misrepresentation and fraud against Proforma Capital Inc. and three officers of the Edmonton-based company.
      
An Alberta Securities Commission panel has dismissed allegations of misrepresentation and fraud against Proforma Capital Inc. and three officers of the Edmonton-based company.
The regulator had made allegations against Proforma, Robert Frost, Joseph Francese and Scott Reed, accusing them of making false representations about insurance coverage and about the use of investors’ funds.
However, the ASC panel that dealt with the case concluded staff did not provide enough evidence to prove the allegations. In its written decision, the panel said it reached this conclusion with “considerable regret and frustration.”
“We were convinced that Frost, Francese and Reed did not meet the competency standards expected of directors and officers in the Alberta capital market. However, the manner in which the allegations were framed and the evidence tendered left us with no choice but to dismiss the allegations,” the decision read.
The panel noted its conclusion “does not in any way condone the questionable business acumen demonstrated by Frost, Francese and Reed in their conduct of Proforma affairs.”
