
# Police evacuate homes after 'homemade explosive device found' in house

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:32:02+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-police-evacuate-homes-after-20825730)

Homes have been evacuated after a suspected homemade explosive device was found by police.
A bomb squad has been sent to the scene in Ramsbottom, Greater Manchester.
A police cordon has been put up and shops have also been shut down by police dealing with the discovery.
Supt Stasia Osiowy, of Lancashire East Police, said: “We have evacuated a number of properties as a precautionary measure but there is not believed to be any immediate threat.
"We will endeavour to return people to their homes as soon as possible.”
Three people have been arrested on suspicion of manufacturing explosive devices and are currently in custody.
A reporter at the scene for the Manchester Evening News said there is a 'huge police presence' in the area.
A full statement from police said: “A cordon is currently in place at an address in Ramsbottom.
“Officers attended the property on William Street to carry out a pre-planned warrant this morning and a cordon has been established around the property following the discovery of what appears to be to be a small homemade explosive device inside the address.
“The Explosives Ordnance Department are attending.
“A number of nearby properties have been evacuated as a precaution and a number of roads are closed and diversions put in place."
Rest centres have been set up by the force.
