
# Red Dead Redemption 2 PC Graphics Benchmark

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Steven Walton**

Original: [TechSpot](https://www.techspot.com/review/1939-red-dead-redemption-2-benchmarks/)

Launched on PC a year after it debuted on consoles, Red Dead Redemption 2 is still a big release that deserves a detailed benchmark analysis, much like what we’ve done for other titles this year like Borderlands 3 where we compared over 60 GPUs, Metro Exodus, and most recently Fornite Chapter 2. Unfortunately those plans went out the window when we discovered how hard benchmarking this game was going to be.
RDR 2 has a number of quick presets, allowing you to easily configure your system using a slider. The quality presets offer a number of settings, with half a dozen ‘Performance’ modes, seven ‘Balanced’ profiles, and seven ‘Quality’ presets. That all sounds great, but problem is these settings don’t apply a static configuration. Rather each of the preset's 30+ options are dynamically configured depending on the graphics card used. For example, the mid balanced preset might use mostly ultra settings with an RTX 2080 Ti, but only medium with an RTX 2070 Super... it was all over the place.
For benchmarking accurately we had to manually configure every graphics setting, every single time we changed a graphics card or a display driver, otherwise the settings all reverted back to their default. In order to bring you a timely test we decided to limit the number of GPUs, though still we have over 20 of them for this feature.
Red Dead Redemption 2 comes with a good built-in benchmark, however we refrained from using it for two reasons: first, it runs for far longer than necessary, a 5+ minute test is overkill when you are doing it three times over per GPU, per resolution. We also found a bug that would see it fail every second or third run, particularly after a resolution change, forcing us to close the game and start over. As early reports indicate, Red Dead Redemption 2 on PC is not without bugs, and updating all your drivers to the latest versions is one of the first suggestions offered by Rockstar.
