
# Electric Vehicle Chargers Evolving and Future Proofing

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Larry Magid**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/larrymagid/2019/11/03/electric-vehicle-chargers-evolving-and-future-proofing/)

The nice part of owning an electric vehicle is that you never have to stop at gas stations (unless it’s a plug-in which means you rarely have to stop). The challenging part is finding a charging station when on the road or retrofitting your residence with a charger that enables you to “fill up” overnight or faster.I bought a Tesla Model 3 last December and, for several months, was only able to charge at 4 miles of range per hour of charging through my regular 120 volt house current. A few months ago, I finally found a Silicon Valley electrician who had time to install 240 at my house and – $6,000 later ($2K for the wiring plus $4K for a new panel) I had a NEMA 6-50 240 volt plug installed in my garage on a 50 amp circuit.
Tesla comes with a portable charger which I could have used but instead opted for a ChargePoint Home 32 AMP ($599 on Amazon), which provided exactly the amount of power I needed for my mid-range Model 3. It’s also the maximum amperage for Tesla’s Standard Range Plus but other Teslas, including the long-range Model 3 and the S and X can charge at up to 48 amps, so – while that 32 amp charger will work on higher capacity models, it won’t charge as fast as 40 or 50 AMP chargers.
So, if you’re in the market for a charger today, you might consider getting one that doesn’t just meet the specification of your current car but of whatever car you might buy in the future. And, given the evolution of battery technology, it’s a safe bet that even moderately priced EVs of the future will have higher capacity batteries able to charge at higher amperages. The same goes for your circuit. I could have saved about $100 by having the electrician install a 40 amp circuit, which would have been enough for my current car, but I opted for 50 amps to future proof.
To accommodate likely increase in demand for amperage, ChargePoint just released the ChargePoint Home Flex ($699 on Amazon) which can be set from between 16 and 50 amps. At 32 amps, it’s rated to add up to 25 miles of range per hour, though my Tesla tells me it’s adding up to 29 miles per hour. At at 48 amp’s it’s rated to charge at 36 miles per hour.
Of course there are other chargers on the market. Juicebox, for example, has three home chargers: 32 amp ($499), 40 amp ($579) and 75 amp ($899). Like ChargePoint, Juicebox chargers come with an app that lets you control and monitor charging activity.
ChargePoint also has a public charging network of privately owned chargers. The cost, if any, is set by the owner of the charging device. In Palo Alto, public chargers owned by the city cost 23 cents per kilowatt hour, which comes to about 8 cents a mile. The parking lots at the Apple Park Visitors Center has free ChargePoint chargers.
Both ChargePoint and JuiceBox offer chargers that must be hardwired by an electrician or chargers that simply plug into a 240 volt outlet. Knowing that I would likely upgrade at some point, I had my electrician install an outlet to accomodate any model charger.
