
# Best audiobooks worth downloading of 2019 - so far

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brijiena Lovelace, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/brijiena-lovelace/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/shopping-deals/best-audiobooks-worth-downloading-2019-20787513)

If you're looking for a new audiobook to spice up the dreaded morning commute, or you just fancy a new bedtime story - an audiobook is a great place to start.
With the swift weather change, the nights are getting colder and darker, much earlier - making staying in at home curled up with a cuppa all the more appealing.
Listening to an audiobook requires a lot less attention than conventionally holding and reading - perfect if you're a busy bee with plenty to get through day to day.
We know we still have a little bit of time until the end of the year, so we've compiled a list of some of the best audiobooks 2019 has brought us thus far below.
Unthinkable is a thought-provoking audiobook narrated by Helen Thomson. The journalist with a background in neuroscience, navigates how our weird and wonderful minds work - from emotions to memory.
Helen spent years travelling the world in a search for people with some of the rarest and most extraordinary brain disorders - Unthinkable details nine of their stories.
Explore the wonderful lives of people navigating life through situations only possible with a different mind. I mean can you imagine getting lost in a one-room flat? Or being convinced that you are dead?

        Price: Free for Audible members, £21.99 to buy - buy here now
      
If you're a fan of Louis Theroux documentaries, you'll simply love his audibook. 
From an unqualified and socially awkward, first timer to a hard hitting journalist with his own unique documentary style.
Louis outlines and details some of his most memorable times/relationships and interviews on television - as always, brutally honestly.

        Price: Free for Amazon members, £11.37 to buy - buy here now
      
This memoir by Frank McCourt is funny but often sad. We follow him as he details his upbringing and life of poverty in New York in the 30's and working class Ireland in the 40's.
Almost a classic tale of those times, that many people of that generation may be able to relate to. Too many children with not enough money.
The story is a triumphant tale of survival against the odds - now who doesn't like a successful underdog? 

        Price: Free for Amazon members, £6.12 to buy - buy here now
      
As Christmas draws nearer, we can all grow increasingly excited about a few days off to kick back with friends and family. All of us except for the 1.4 million NHS staff who will be working away through the festivities.
Adam Kay delivers a hilarious take on what happens behind the blue curtains on Christmas day - it's mostly funny, at times a little frightening and sometimes heartbreaking, sounds about right for a day in the life at a hospital. 

        Price: Free for Amazon members, £11.37 to buy - buy here now
      
 
Narrated by Georgia Hardstark and Karen Kilgariff hosts of true crime comedy podcast 'My Favorite Murder', the hosts open up wholeheartedly about their lives more intimately than ever.
Detailing troubling times in their lives that have shaped them, to their deepest fears and ambitions - this audiobook is an comical ode to everyone who has ever been through anything, I guess that's all of us then.

        Price: Free for Audible members, £19.99 to buy - buy here now
      
 
Shortlisted for the Women's Prize for Fiction 2019, this humorous but very dark tale follows a young woman trying to navigate her sister's compelling desire to murder all of her boyfriends, well ex-boyfriends.
Oyinkan Braithwaite has written a deadly debut that's as fun as it is frightening, and often an understandable tale of sisters defending one another.

        Price: Free for Audible members, £14.99 to buy - buy here now
      
 
Written by Mary Roach and narrated by Shelley Fraiser, Stiff takes an up close and very personal look at what happens to our bodies after we die.
Filled with dry humour and wit - the audiobook is both fascinating and at times stomach-churning, as Shelley describes the wonderful atrocities that go on after life as we know it is over.

        Price: Free for Audible members, £19.69 to buy - buy here now
      
In this Pulitzer Prize-winning investigative reporter Ronan Farrow explores in great depth the serial abusers in positions of power.
Everything from intimidation to jeopardised careers, follow this story of clues, corruption and major cover-ups.
This audiobook is a stop at nothing tale, that shows the great lengths taken to expose, name and shame one of the most influential abusers in Hollywood.  

        Price: Free for Amazon members, £17.49 to buy - buy here now
      
 
Caitlin Moran's 'How to be a Woman, is a feminists playground and offers thought-provoking questions for box sexes, in this part memoir part feminist rant.
Women have come a long way since being burnt at the stakes last in 1727. Sure, we have the right to vote and for the most part are in control over our own bodies. But some questions still remain: like what should we be calling our vagina's? And why does everyone ask you when you're going to have a baby?
If you like a rant and want some of these question answering for yourself, this is the audiobook for you.

        Price: Free for Amazon members, £17.58 to buy - buy here now
      
The Guilty Mother is a great option for you if you enjoy tales of crime. This audiobook will have you guessing right up until the very end, as it follows a classic 'whodunit' and 'we don't believe it' narrative.
A mother has the perfect life with an abundance of everything she ever dreamed of. Beauty, a successful husband and beautiful twin daughters. What more could she ask for?
Fast forward to the present day, when she's on trial for the murders of her two little girls. You'll have to listen to the end to find out where it all went wrong. 

        Price: Free for Kobo members, £12.99 to buy - buy here now
      
