
# Bad Romance? Lady Gaga Confesses Alleged Affair With Bradley Cooper Was ‘Orchestrated Performance’

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:08:41+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/viral/201911071077242772-bad-romance-lady-gaga-confesses-alleged-affair-with-bradley-cooper-was-orchestrated-performance/)


        The Instagram page of American singer Lady Gaga witnessed an invasion of fans of Russian model and Bradley Cooper’s ex-partner Irina Shayk this summer, after media outlets alleged the singer to blame for the couple’s recent break up.
      
American singer and actress Lady Gaga just gave a bombshell interview to Oprah Winfrey for the December issue of Elle magazine, where she confessed that the whole clamour around her alleged romance with “A Star Is Born” co-star Bradley Cooper was nothing but an “orchestrated” performance.
Gaga, whose real name is Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta, earned one of the most honourable awards in the film industry for her “Shallow” single this year. She even heartwarmingly performed it alongside Cooper during the Oscar ceremony. Many fans then speculated that the two could be more than just friends, following their realistic portrayal of a relationship and visible sparkles in their eyes during the touching performance. Moreover, both Cooper and Gaga left their partners shortly after the ceremony, with Russian-speaking fans of Cooper’s ex Irina Shayk flocking to Gaga's Instagram account, demanding that she “return” the actor back to the Russian model.
Lady Gaga, however, strongly denied all the rumours, calling them “silly”.
Gaga who also stripped down to bra during a photoshoot for the magazine, said she believed that the actors did “a good job” in trying to convince the public of their romantic feelings.
During the interview the actress also said that winning the Oscar reminded her of all the pain she’s had to go through in life, especially about her experience of sexual abuse at the age of 19.
Lady Gaga rose to international fame in 2007 with her debut album The Fame. She recently had to cancel a performance in Las Vegas due to a severe sinus infection and bronchitis.
