
# My Chemical Romance Just Announced Even More Reunion Shows

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:30:05+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/my-chemical-romance-just-announced-even-more-reunion-shows-19301812)

Former emo kids of the world will not be okay once they hear this news. Just a week after they announced the long-awaited end of a years-long hiatus, My Chemical Romance has announced even more reunion shows in Australia, New Zealand and Japan in the spring of 2020. According to Rolling Stone, the beloved emo band has joined the lineup of next year's Download Festival, alongside Jimmy Eat World, with shows on March 20 and 21, in Melbourne and Sydney, respectively.
Following that, they will join Jimmy Eat World for another show in Western Springs, New Zealand on March 25, and My Chemical Romance wrap things up with the Japanese leg of the Download Festival a few days later on March 29, alongside fellow emo stalwarts Evanescence. Fans in the Eastern Hemisphere can get their hands on tickets for the various festival stops from the Download Festival website now, while tickets for their New Zealand show will be available beginning Nov. 9 through Ticketmaster.
On Halloween, My Chemical Romance announced on Twitter that they were reuniting to play their first concert in over a decade on Dec. 20 at the Shrine Expo Hall in Los Angeles. Tickets went on sale the following day, and the show promptly sold out within hours. As of yet, they haven't announced any plans to play any addition shows in North America.
