
# 'Long record of poor judgment': The Nation pens 'An Anti-Endorsement' of Biden

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:59:22+00:00**

Author: **John Gage**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/long-record-of-poor-judgment-the-nation-pens-an-anti-endorsement-of-biden)

The Nation said they would not be issuing any endorsements in the 2020 presidential election yet, but they do have one candidate they do not want to win the Democratic nomination.
The magazine published an editorial Thursday titled "Joe Biden: An Anti-Endorsement, " in which they pummeled the former vice president for "cozying up" to corporate interests.
"Biden’s long record of poor judgment," the magazine said, citing the 1994 crime bill and support of the Iraq War, along with other positions they said did not fit with their liberal vision.
"Stumbling through the primaries, Biden’s zombie campaign crowds out worthier challengers, handing Trump a free pass on the very issues that should be his Achilles heel. On issue after issue, Biden’s candidacy offers Trump a unique opportunity to muddy what should be a devastatingly clear choice. The Nation, therefore, calls on Biden to put service to country above personal ambition and withdraw from the race."
The anti-endorsement comes as Biden leads polling nationwide in the 2020 primary.
The Delaware Democrat is also at the center of the impeachment of President Trump. Democrats contend the president tried to withhold military aid from Ukraine unless they decided to investigate Biden. Additionally, the alleged whistleblower who ignited the impeachment process, Eric Ciaramella, has connections to Biden.
The Nation ended their editorial by saying Biden is not a "crook" like Trump contends but that he does not have "a winning platform."
