
# Thompson-Robinson, Kelley lead UCLA to third straight win

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:29:53+00:00**

Author: **JOE REEDY**

Original: [The Seattle Times](https://www.seattletimes.com/sports/thompson-robinson-kelley-lead-ucla-to-third-straight-win/)

PASADENA, Calif. (AP) — Dorian Thompson-Robinson passed for 226 yards and two touchdowns, Joshua Kelley ran for 126 yards and UCLA won its third straight game on Saturday night, defeating Colorado 31-14 at the Rose Bowl.
Thompson-Robinson — who was 21-of-28 passing — completed 10 of his first 11, including first-quarter touchdowns of 16 yards to Devin Asiasi and 45 yards to Ethan Fernea as the Bruins (4-5, 4-2 Pac-12) scored on their first three drives to take a 17-0 lead 12 minutes into the game. The sophomore also rushed for 38 yards.
Kelley, who came into the game leading the Pac-12 in rushing at 105 yards per game, scored both Bruins’ second-half touchdowns. The senior — who has 10 rushing scores this season and nine in the past five games — got his fourth 100-yard game of the season with a 35-yard touchdown with 4:14 remaining in the game to extend UCLA’s lead to 31-14. He scored from 5 yards out during the third quarter.
Steven Montez — who was 21 of 38 for 195 yards — accounted for both Colorado (3-6, 1-5) touchdowns. He had a 2-yard scramble around left end to bring the Buffaloes within 17-7 midway through the second quarter and a 27-yard TD pass to Tony Brown with 5:57 remaining in the game to bring them within 10 again (24-14).
THE TAKEAWAY
Colorado: Mel Tucker’s first year in Boulder started off well with wins in three of his first four, but the Buffaloes have dropped five straight and have allowed 30 or more points in 14 straight games dating back to last season.
UCLA: The Bruins have won three straight games for the first time since 2015. After appearing woeful for the first half of the season, Chip Kelly’s squad could get bowl eligible with wins in two of their final three games.
Advertising
UP NEXT
Colorado: Hosts Stanford next Saturday. The Buffaloes have not faced the Cardinal since a 10-5 victory in 2016.
UCLA: Has a bye week before traveling to Utah on Nov. 16. The Bruins have a three-game losing streak against the Utes, including 41-10 last year at the Rose Bowl.
___
More AP college football: https://apnews.com/Collegefootball and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25
JOE REEDY
