
# How To Find Polling Places Near You Right In Time For Local Elections

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:24:14+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/how-to-find-polling-places-near-you-right-in-time-for-local-elections-19293988)

Although the general election isn't happening until 2020, tons of other elections could be happening in your area this Nov. 5. In order to make your voice heard, you'll have to know how to find polling places near you, and whether or not you're currently registered to vote. Luckily, this information is all available to you online — so there's no excuse not to participate in democracy at work.
A number of critical elections will take place across the country on Tuesday. Mississippi could elect its first black woman to state office if Democrat Jennifer Riley Collins wins the seat for attorney general. And in Virginia, political control in the state's House of Delegates and Senate will be up for grabs, with most of the seats in each assembly on the ballot.
There are also a number of critical ballot measures taking place in certain states. New Yorkers will have the chance to vote on one that would empower a state board to investigate police officers suspected of lying during review board investigations. Meanwhile, those living in San Francisco will vote on a measure to authorize and regulate the sale of e-cigarettes and other vaping products. In other words, there are plenty of critical reasons to show up and vote, even if this day doesn't attract as much hype as a presidential election.
