
# British teenager banned by Fortnite for cheating in video streamed live on YouTube

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:54:44+00:00**

Author: **Bradley Jolly, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/bradley-jolly/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/british-teenager-banned-fortnite-cheating-20811902)

A British teenager has been banned from playing Fortnite after he was caught cheating in a video broadcast live to his two million YouTube fans.
Jarvis Kaye - known as FaZe Jarvis - uploaded videos showing him using "aimbots", which allow competitors to shoot others without taking careful aim.
But in a tearful apology video, the teenager claims he was unaware this was forbidden.
Epic Games, which makers Fortnite, gave him a permanent ban anyway.
"I'm going to take accountability for my actions and I understand completely why this has happened, I just wish I had known how severe the consequences were at the time and I would have never thought about doing it," Jarvis tweeted.
"I love all of you who still support me, this is not the end."
 
Jarvis, who is also a member of the eSports team FaZe Clan, also has 600,000 followers on Twitch, another live-streaming platform.
In the grovelling apology clip, Jarvis says: "All I was thinking about whilst I was making those videos was just how entertaining and interesting these videos would be for you guys to watch.
"It didn't even cross my mind to think that I could be banned for life from Fortnite from those videos. I just want to be clear that this is the first time that I have ever done anything like this and of course I have never done this in a competitive game mode at all.
 
"Epic Games you know I know how big of a mistake I've made and I'm truly like so sorry. Epic, I know I have to take accountability for my actions and I'm going to do my best to accept any punishment that comes my way."
Fortnite is a battle royale-style survival shooter in which players create a superhero avatar and compete against each other on a dystopian island to be the last one standing.
It boasts hundreds of millions of viewers worldwide.
But it has been panned by critics and charities.
A boy attempted suicide after his obsession with it spiralled out of control last year.
Carl Thompson, 17, spiralled into debt and drug addiction as he spent almost all of his time playing it – including 12-hour stints.
He hardly ate or slept and says he was “miserable and unable to function”.
Only a few months after first playing the game, he decided there was only one way to escape.
He tried to jump to his death from his third-floor bedroom window. By chance, Carl’s dad saw him as he was about to leap and pulled him to safety.
