
# South Africa's epic World Cup final victory over England – in pictures

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:15:44+00:00**

Author: **Tom Jenkins**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/gallery/2019/nov/02/south-africa-rugby-world-cup-final-victory-over-england-in-pictures)


        Our photographer Tom Jenkins captured all the drama from the touchline as an unstoppable and skilful South Africa won the Rugby World Cup final in Yokohama.Additional photography by Reuters
      
The England players walk off the field after the warm up in Yokohama.
Springbok captain Siya Kolisi sings the South African national anthem before kick-off.
South Africa’s Makazole Mapimpi is tackled in the opening moments by Kyle Sinckler and Maro Itoje.
Sinckler leaves the field early after being injured in tackling Mapimpi and colliding with Itoje. He is replaced in the front row by Dan Cole.
An early penalty is awarded to South Africa after a loose pass by Billy Vunipola to Owen Farrell.
England captain Owen Farrell looks around as his team struggle to impose themselves.
South Africa’s Duane Vermeulen pushes Jonny May in the throat as he is tackled by Sam Underhill.
Handré Pollard lines up another penalty. The fly-half missed his first kick but was otherwise flawless, notching 22 points.
The livewire Pollard beats George Ford to the ball from his own kick. The England No10 was substituted early in the second half.
The game’s pivotal moment comes as Makazole Mapimpi runs in for the opening try, after a sublime pass from Lukhanyo Am.
Photograph: Issei Kato/Reuters
Mapimpi celebrates scoring the opening try with scrum-half Faf du Klerk.
Photograph: Peter Cziborra/Reuters
As England pour forward, the Springboks pounce on the break. Cheslin Kolbe skips around Owen Farrell to score their second try.
Photograph: Peter Cziborra/Reuters
Kolbe celebrates as Anthony Watson realises England’s World Cup dream is over.
Photograph: Peter Cziborra/Reuters
Pieter-Steph du Toit celebrates at full-time as South Africa earn their third Rugby World Cup triumph.
A bloodied and dejected Billy Vunipola just after the final whistle.
Siya Kolisi holds the Webb Ellis Cup aloft after South Africa’s 32-12 victory.
Manu Tuilagi trudges off the field as England lose to South Africa in a second final.
Photograph: Tom Jenkins/The Guardian
England head coach Eddie Jones waits to receive his silver medal. Jones said later: ‘I don’t know why we didn’t play well today’.
Owen Farrell offers his team some words of encouragement in the England team huddle after the match.
Photograph: Tom Jenkins/The Guardian
Kolisi celebrates with his children. After the game, the captain said: We have so many problems in our country, but we came together with one goal’
Photograph: Tom Jenkins/The Guardian
