
# PTI and the confederacy of dunces

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:58:00+00:00**

Author: **Raza Habib Raja**

Original: [The Express Tribune Blog](https://blogs.tribune.com.pk/story/90200/pti-and-the-confederacy-of-dunces/)


        I remember watching an 
        interview
         of Hassan Nisar, an ardent supporter of Imran Khan, in early December 2018, when the PTI government was still in its relative infancy. In the video, Nisar, while lamenting the poor performance of the government, pleaded with the ministers to at least stay quiet on social and electronic media and keep their public profile low. He was visibly irked due to a bevy of 
        irresponsible statements
         and several 
        other blunders
         made by a long list of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) ministers
        . A few months later, Mohmmad Hanif, renowned Pakistani novelist and columnist, 
        wrote
         that the provision of constant entertainment was the raison d’etre of the PTI government. In another recent 
        interview
        , Nisar repeated the same opinion but this time in a much angrier tone and called this cabinet a collection of clowns. The sentiments expressed by Nisar, who has never claimed neutrality and has always been a supporter of the PTI, reflect the general opinion about the current behaviour of PTI ministers.
      
The problem is that despite the economic turmoil, eroding social fabric and increasing political instability, the strangely irresponsible attitude of the PTI ministers shows no signs of dissipating. Many of their statements and actions often come across as callous, unnecessarily controversial and divisive. They also regularly overstep their jurisdiction and comment on issues not falling under their purview. Not only that, it almost seems as if several ministers are trying to outdo each other in this quest for relevancy.
In a shocking statement, Minister of State for Climate Change, Zartaj Gul (who has already made several bizarre statements in the past) denied the hazardous levels of air quality in Lahore and called it deliberate exaggeration by “vested” elements. Instead of showing concern for the worrying increase in Lahore’s Air Quality Index (AQI) and taking appropriate measures to counter the smog, the minister instead chose to shift the blame onto India and the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) march. Publicly downplaying these very real threats posed by the deteriorating air quality is not only deeply concerning but could also prove to be outright dangerous for the health Pakistani citizens.
