
# Don Young, GOP lawmaker, headbutts MoveOn.org camera when pressed on T

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jessica Chasmar**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/1/don-young-gop-lawmaker-headbutts-moveonorg-camera-/)

Rep. Don Young headbutted a camera belonging to activists with the progressive group MoveOn.org after they peppered him with questions in a congressional hallway Thursday.
“Is it OK for the president to pressure foreign governments to interfere in our elections?” one activist repeatedly asked the Alaska Republican on his way to the elevator, according to a video tweeted by MoveOn.
Mr. Young ignored the question until he was forced to wait for the elevator to arrive. He then turned around and walked right up to the camera filming him and lightly headbutted it, causing his glasses to clink against the device.
“There you go,” the congressman said before he eventually entered the elevator.
An aide then told the group to contact the lawmaker’s office, because “just asking the same question over and over again is not going to get you anywhere.”
Mr. Young voted Thursday with Republicans against formalizing an impeachment inquiry against President Trump, calling it a “political stunt by House Democrats.” The resolution passed the House by a 232-196 vote.
“This is not a question of whether there are sufficient grounds for impeachment, it is simply a sham vote to allow House Democrats to continue to trample on the longstanding impeachment process in the House,” Mr. Young said in a statement after the vote. “Everyone in this country deserves due process, but this vote is unfair and a total charade.”
Mr. Young has yet to comment on the incident with MoveOn. It comes just six months after the lawmaker apologized to Politico’s Melanie Zanona for allegedly physically pushing her, The Hill reported.
