
# Segunda Mana sends 1,000 youth to school annually

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:06:52+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/03/segunda-mana-sends-1000-youth-to-school-annually/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
Segunda Mana, the donation-in-kind program of Caritas Manila, has played a vital role in its scholarship program for children belonging to the marginalized sector.
Each year, Segunda Mana makes it possible for 1,000 students from the poorest provinces nationwide to graduate with a formal college education and servant leadership training.
“Education gives our youth the hope for a better future,” Caritas Manila Executive Director Fr. Anton CT Pascual said in a press statement.
Pascual said Segunda Mana has raised 287.4 million from 2008 to 2018. From January to July of 2019 it reported an additional gross revenue of 41,490,980 bringing the total to 328,890,980.
It has reached 70 million in annual gross sales in the previous years. Its target is to generate 150 million annual gross sales to fund Caritas Manila’s programs and services for the poor.
Funds generated by Segunda Mana help produce 1,000 Youth Servant Leadership and Education Program graduates each year. YSLEP was borne out of Caritas Manila’s strong belief that one of the best ways to fight poverty is through education. It helps poor but deserving students earn college or vocational-techical degrees.
“Segunda Mana encourages people to donate items they no longer need, things they want to give away or nonmoving inventories,” Pascual pointed out. “Individual and corporate donors can give new or preloved clothes, shoes, toys, school supplies, books, home and office furnitures, appliances or any item they feel can help raise funds.”
Donated items are sold and converted to cash to be used for  Caritas Manila’s social services and development programs. Its major beneficiary is the YSLEP scholarship program.
Furthermore, it is also a social entrepreneurship program. All donated items are sorted and some items are sold in bulk to around 400 micro-entrepreneur families who then sells them as a livelihood. This encourages the poor to become self reliant.
Segunda Mana also provides direct and indirect employment for others who lack the qualifications for regular employment. It has employed at least 120 full-time staff.
As of July 2019, Segunda Mana has 34 charity outlets nationwide. The expansion began in 2018 when it started operating outside of Luzon by opening a branch in Iloilo City.
Segunda Mana is targeting to open an outlet in Cebu City this year and in Tagum City, Davao next year. It plans to have 50 charity outlets operational all over the country by 2021.
