
# Borna Barisic revels in Rangers song as Ibrox star reflects on Alfredo Morelos connection

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gavin Berry, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gavin-berry/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/borna-barisic-revels-rangers-song-20818673)

Borna Barisic wants to remain on song after being blown away by the Rangers fans’ dedicated chant to him.
And the Light Blues full back revealed the terrace tune to Boy George and Culture Club’s classic Karma Chameleon is even catching on in Croatia.
Barisic has been in impressive form this season after a difficult debut campaign in Glasgow following the international full back’s move from Osijek last summer.
And the 26-year-old’s displays haven’t gone unnoticed by the Ibrox faithful who have come up with their own song for the 11-time capped defender.
Gers fans chanted their new ditty during the 3-0 Betred Cup semi-final win over Hearts on Sunday and Barisic said: “I really enjoy it when they sing my song, it is an amazing feeling.
“When I say it to my friends in Croatia, they listen to the song! It is really good. Of course it gives you a boost. I am a professional player and when someone sings your song, especially when there are 20,000 or 30,000 people, it is amazing, really amazing.”
Barisic was delighted to secure a place in next month’s Betfred Cup final against Celtic with the defender revealing it’s his first ever career final.
He said after the Jambos stroll: “It was very nice and I am very happy to get to the final. I think we showed a very good performance and we absolutely deserved this win. I am very happy.
“I have to say that our fans were also amazing as always. So thank you for that support. We totally deserved the win and in every segment of the game we were better.
“This is for me a first final in my life and I am very happy about that. It is a long time to wait but good things sometimes come late. It is important that it has come and I am looking forward to that game.”
Barisic was injured for last season’s Betfred Cup semi-final against Aberdeen and was forced to watch from the sidelines as Lewis Ferguson netted a late winner for the Dons.
The full back said: “We have grown up as a team since then and that is important. We showed that on Sunday and the performance on the pitch was very good. We are growing up as a team and everyone can see that on the pitch.”
Gers now return to Euro action with Porto the visitors to Ibrox on Thursday for their return Europa League Group G clash after earning a 1-1 draw in Estadio do Dragao.
Steven Gerrard’s men then travel to Livingston in the Scottish Premiership on Sunday before the international break and Barisic said: “We are looking forward to Porto.
“It is a very important game for us because we can go through the group stages. We need to show a good performance on Thursday and then we have Livingston where we need to win. At Rangers you need to have that mentality and you always have to win.”
Barisic set Sunday’s two-goal hero Alfredo Morelos up for the equaliser in Porto with an exquisite cross which the clinical Colombian converted.
And the Croat said: “I told him when I would cross but I don’t know how much he understands me! But he did and we have a good connection.
 
“Fredo is crazy! He is always hungry for goals and to score and we see that in every game. He plays like it is his last game. He is a very good player and to have 20 goals is amazing.”
Barisic also praised the character shown by skipper James Tavernier in recent weeks after he bounced back from mistakes against Young Boys in Switzerland and a missed penalty against Motherwell.
He said: “I said maybe he made one mistake against Young Boys but criticism is normal and you always get criticism. But James is a very good captain, a very good player and he does a lot for this club in all of his years here.
“On Sunday, you saw he had a very good game and his performance was very good. He is very good. He is always the same character and he is very good fun.”
Ryan Kent is also getting back to his best after injury hampered his Rangers return and Barisic said: “Ryan Kent is an amazing player.
“He has had some problems with injuries and he is maybe not right now at his top level. But you saw last season that he is a top player and how he can play. He played a very good game on Sunday.”
