
# People of Panay decry sabotage

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:54:59+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/people-panay-decry-sabotage)

For one thing, the two-day power outage that hit Iloilo on October 29 and 30 was deemed as highly irregular by sources within the power industry.
On October 29, two coal-fired power plants shut down—the Global Business Power-owned PEDC plant and the Palm Concepcion Power Corporation (PCPC). The PEDC plant had a scheduled shutdown on that day, however, according to insiders, the PCPC plant went online only on November 2—five days after it went offline, which insiders claimed is highly irregular unless the plant had a major breakdown.
Normally, when power lines trip and plants have to be shut down for safety reasons, it will take only 5-6 hours before power can be resumed. However, the PCPC plant took an abnormally long time to go back online.
The widespread power outage came at a time when power distributorship in Iloilo is being contested in the courts by current power distributor Panay Electric Company (PECO) and newcomer More Electric Power Corporation (MORE Power) which plans to take over PECO’s assets.
Further investigation revealed that Mr. Ruel Castro, the president of MORE Power, was the former president of PCPC. Moreover, an SEC check on the incorporation of PCPC showed that Castro’s group owns a minority stake in PCPC.
These fueled speculations that the extended blackout was due to efforts meant to disparage PECO as the current power provider in Iloilo and to be used as leverage for propaganda.
“The blackout happened because of factors beyond the control of PECO and yet MORE Power conveniently used the incident to show us in a bad light by conveniently overlooking the facts,” PECO Head of Public Engagement and Government Affairs Marcelo Cacho said, referring to a previous news item that quoted MORE Power as blaming PECO for the power outage.
“First of all, we must clarify that PECO is a power distributor and not a power generator,” Cacho stressed. “We only distribute the power that is generated by the NGCP (National Grid Corporation of the Philippines).”
The newspaper report stated that on the second day of the brownouts, the NGCP already restored power only after 30 minutes.
“However, contrary to what was published in the papers, NGCP did not restore power after 30 minutes,” Cacho stressed. “In fact, we were checking for updates from the NGCP, but nothing came. They only advised us that we can already restore power 11 hours after the power outage started. It was NGCP and not our supplier who held back the clearance to restore because they had to stabilize the supply of the grid.”
“Even then, we already started to implement rotating brownouts early on, contrary to what MORE Power claimed, but prioritized the residential areas that do not have generator sets.”
“More than anything else, however, I am indignant for the people of Iloilo. The coal plant shutdown and the almost-simultaneous pole fires in different areas of Iloilo make me wonder if there’s something happening behind the scenes,” Cacho said in a recent interview. “Customers are asking us: is this sabotage by those who want to ease us out of Iloilo to force our hand to give up? I certainly hope not,” he added.
A source who refused to be named said, “Iloilo is under siege by Manila businesses that would willingly put the city in darkness for their selfish ends.”
