
# How do textbooks talk Tipu Sultan?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kumaran P**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/how-do-textbooks-talk-tipu-sultan/articleshow/71844542.cms)

Texts of Classes 6, 7 and 10 hail him for fighting the British, among other things While an uproar over removing Tipu Sultan chapters from the curriculum have stormed the political and academic corridors, the experts have pointed that the controversial lessons are only part of Social Sciences textbooks of Class 6, 7 and 10. The reference of Tipu Sultan is made in various contexts in different classes’ textbooks, like referring to Mysore Kingdom and Wadiyars. In the Class 6 there is a mention of how Mysuru was under the rule of Wadiyars for many centuries, under the rule of Hyder Ali and his son Tipu Sultan. The text states, “Yaduraya was the first ruler of Wodeyar Dynasty. Chikkadevaraya Wodeyar is the most famous king. The kings who succeeded him were weak. Hyder Ali who was the military general then, took over the administration. He and his son Tipu Sultan ruled Mysuru from 1761 to 1799. Tipu waged many wars against the Britishers. He negotiated with French to dethrone the British rule in India. Tipu died in a war against the Britishers in 1799.” In Class 7 textbook, there is a sub-section talking about the rule of Tipu Sultan (1782-1799 CE). It talks about who was he, what did he did and his wars against the British. It states, “In the third Anglo-Mysuru war the Britishers lay siege to the capital city of Tippu’s Sriranga-patanam. Without any alternative, Tipu had to sign a Peace Treaty with the British. As per the peace treaty Tipu had to surrender half of his kingdom to British and had to pay Rs. 330 lakh as compensation. This left Tipu disgraced and he fought Fourth Anglo-Mysuru war and he fought valiantly and died in the battle field. Tipu Sultan is known as ‘Tiger of Mysuru’.
Highlighted texts containing references to Tipu Sultan in textbooks of Class 6, 7 and 10
It also mentions about how he promoted sericulture, sanctioned grants to many Hindu temples and he gave gifts to Sringeri Mutt. It also states that he established royal mints at Srirangapattana and Mysuru. In Class 10 History section, Unit 4 is dedicated to – ‘Opposition to British Rule in Karnataka’ where the unit explains about Hyder Ali, Tipu Sultan, Halagali Bedas, Kittur Rani Chennamma, Sangoli Rayana. The Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Thursday said that the ministry will wait for the opinion or a report from the Karnataka Textbooks Society and then take a call. On the other hand, the higher education minister Ashwath Narayan commented to a press statement saying that there needs to be no change in the history of our State.
