
# Inspirational Ellie is named our Local Hero

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:02:00+00:00**

Author: **Debbie Hall, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/debbie-hall/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/inspirational-ellie-named-local-hero-20770957)

An inspirational little girl who is battling cancer has been named this month’s Local Hero.
The Centre, Livingston, welcomed very special guest Ellie Beattie (13), who was awarded this month’s title and a £100 gift card to spend in the mall.
Ellie, who was diagnosed with a brain tumour in 2018, was joined by her mum Elaine, who nominated her for the Local Hero Award in recognition of her outstanding bravery throughout her treatment.

         
      
Since being diagnosed Ellie has endured 32 bouts of radiotherapy and life-threatening brain operations.
Her mum created a Facebook page for Ellie when she was first diagnosed and has charted her long battle with the disease on the page.
She also posts any fun things they get up to, like visiting the circus or cinema, and members of the page can interact and suggest things for them to do.

         
      
The page is called Ellie’s Brave Cancer Journal and anyone who would like to help out or just encourage can join the group.
Elaine said Ellie loves to visit The Centre, especially for anything art-related which is her favourite hobby, and books, in particular Harry Potter.
Ellie said: “I was so surprised and delighted my mum nominated me for the Local Hero award.
“It was great to be invited along to collect it and the gift card too, which I’m very grateful for.

         
      
“I thoroughly enjoyed my shopping spree with my mum buying some new books, DVDs and stationery, which I love.”
Centre director Patrick Robbertze said: “It was a real honour to meet the wonderful Ellie Beattie last week and present her with our Local Hero award and £100 gift card to treat herself to something nice, which she truly deserves.”

         
      
If you know someone who is worthy of being nominated for the Local Hero Award, perhaps someone who has gone the extra mile to help others in the community, such as volunteering in a community group, fundraising or caring for family members or even someone who has excelled at school or a sports club and deserves recognition, please send an email with the details to debbie.hall@trinitymirror.com.
