
# Senate Passes Joni Ernst Bills to Rein in Wasteful Spending | Breitbart

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:30:12+00:00**

Author: **Sean Moran**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/03/senate-passes-joni-ernst-proposals-rein-wasteful-federal-spending/)

The Senate passed two of Sen. Ernst’s proposals to cut back on wasteful government spending, which continued her long legacy of making Washington, DC, “squeal,” by cutting back on wasteful spending, as well as eliminating fraud from the government.
The first proposal, known as the Bogus Bonus Ban Act, would cut bonuses for federal contractors that do not meet the federal government’s standards. The other bill, otherwise known as the Billion Dollar Boondoggle Act, would expose taxpayer-funded projects that are billions of dollars over budget and over five years behind schedule.
Sen. Ernst thanked her Senate colleagues for passing the proposals, noting that the bills are “commonsense and straightforward.”
The Iowa conservative said in a statement Friday:
The Senate included Ernst’s two proposals in an appropriations package, which was passed by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 84-9.
The Iowa senator has continued to make Washington, DC, “squeal.”
Last week, Sen. Ernst unveiled her Stop Wasteful Advertising by the Government Act (SWAG) Act on Breitbart News Daily. The SWAG Act prohibits the federal government from spending money to create a “mascot” to promote a federal agency, as well as producing fidget spinners, koozies, and mascots.
Ernst told Breitbart News Daily host Alex Marlow:
“So what the bill will do is that it will prohibit agencies from purchasing and distributing swag, like coloring books, koozies, fidget spinners, and of course, creating their own mascots,” the Iowa senator added.
Sean Moran is a congressional reporter for Breitbart News. Follow him on Twitter @SeanMoran3.
