
# Qantas's cracking planes are not a safety concern — here's why

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:25:31+00:00**

Author: **Paige Cockburn**

Original: [ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-10-31/qantas-737-cracking-does-not-justify-fleet-grounding-expert-says/11658588)

Amid calls for Qantas to ground 75 planes and a global review of some cracking Boeing 737s, even confident fliers might be feeling uneasy about their next trip.
Australia's national carrier has revealed hairline cracks were found in three of its Boeing 737s during visual checks this week.
The airline has removed the affected planes for repair but the Australian Licensed Aircraft Engineers Association (ALAEA) wants Qantas to ground all its 737 planes.
However the cracks — which are on a part of the plane called the "pickle fork" — should not scare travellers according to Australia's Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) and a leading aviation consultancy firm.
Here's why.
The pickle forks strengthen the connection between the wing and the body of the plane.
They are not the only thing holding the wing on.
"Even if the crack speared right through, the wing wouldn't fall off," Neil Hansford from Strategic Aviation Solutions said.

        Infographic: Pickle forks help to hold the wings to the body of a plane. (ABC News)
      
The pickle fork is supposed to last the life of an aircraft — which means roughly 90,000 take-off and landing cycles for a 737.
It's a known problem in the Boeing 737s and last month the US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued an urgent directive for all airlines to check their 737s that had completed more than 30,000 cycles for pickle fork cracks.
However, none of Qantas's planes have done that many.
CASA spokesperson Peter Gibson described the cracking as "a serious problem" but said there was "no evidence" to suggest Qantas's whole fleet should be grounded.
"Boeing came up with a procedure to inspect these aircraft in a specific area and that's being done right around the world, including here in Australia," he said.
"Any aircraft that are cracked go out of service until they're repaired."
The ALAEA is one of several unions that represent people in the aviation sector.
"The area where the crack is takes the load off the wing and all the fuel it carries," ALAEA boss Steven Purvinas said.
"As long as Qantas is unaware which aircraft do or don't have cracks, they should ground the entire fleet until they know which are safe to fly."
Boeing maintains the cracks do not compromise safety.
As of October 9, cracks had been found in the pickle forks of about 5 per cent of the 737s inspected worldwide.
Although Qantas does not have any 737s with more than 30,000 cycles, they have so far inspected 33 of their 737s which have done more than 22,600.
Mr Hansford said the public should trust Qantas, because it was "boringly conservative" about safety.
"If there was a legitimate problem they would ground voluntarily," he said.
Mr Gibson said there was no reason for Qantas to ground their fleet.
Virgin inspected 19 of their 737s with more than 22,600 cycles earlier this month and did not find any cracking.
