
# Cancer patient abused by vile trolls who say he caused his own illness

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:46:13+00:00**

Author: **Bradley Jolly, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/bradley-jolly/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/cancer-patient-abused-vile-trolls-20826065)

A cancer patient has faced relentless abuse by trolls who have accused him of causing his illness.
Nikhil Autar, 25, was saddened after the vicious trolls, many of whom are from anti-vaxxer and anti-science groups, struck.
The medical researcher, of Sydney, Australia, has been battling leukaemia for eight years.
"The idea that someone would accuse someone of having caused their own cancer... it's disappointing, it's frustrating," he said.
A meme has gone viral on social media showing Mr Autar before his diagnosis where he is posing on a fishing trip, and then after his diagnosis in a hospital bed with his skin damaged from leukemia treatment.
One person commented: "Sorry but you couldn't get a more perfect image of someone prostituted by big pharma. He is so dosed up on a cocktail of steroids, vaccines, pain relief, anti inflammatories and God knows what else.
 
"I feel sorry for him, but should he dare to promote the fluvax which is nothing more than an assault on his already slaughtered immune system then he can surely handle the elephant in the room."
"You got leukemia from vaccines," another comment says.
"You've been abused and gas-lighted by a bunch of psychopaths in white coats. You have a decision to make, though I know you won't."
"Does his face look like that because of all the jabs he's taken?" another comment reads. His lungs will fail faster from fluvax than from possibly getting pneumonia."
 
But Mr Autar told News.com.au : "The reason why that meme struck a nerve was not because it berated my looks or even me looking unhealthy.
"But more the idea that I caused my cancer. That somehow this is something I deserve, and that's something that you hear a lot from people."
Mr Autar has had 22 rounds of chemotherapy since his diagnosis.
Writing on Facebook today, the researcher said: "Antivaxxers suck. But it's not like yesterday was my first clash with them.
"It should never be okay to suggest someone is responsible for their illness, especially when (a) that illness isn't something they can't help and (b) when what you assert 'causes' the illness, or your prescribed 'cure', has no effect on it. 
"But if they do or say crazy, and yes, cruel stuff like this, do point out how screwed up that is. At the very least, you'll help the person being trampled. No one deserves to cop this crap. Ever."
