
# WWE Stock Tumbles Over Q3 Earnings Reports

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **David Bixenspan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidbixenspan/2019/10/31/wwe-stock-tumbles-over-q3-earnings-reports/)

It shouldn’t matter for too long, but Wall Street was not happy with the numbers in World Wrestling Entertainment’s third quarter report for investors. As a result, company stock tumbled 15.65% by the end of the trading day, falling by $10.40, from $66.44 to $56.04. Specifically, WWE changed their profit guidance for the whole of 2019, and that appears to have led to a bit of a sell-off.“The Company has modified its full year 2019 guidance to an Adjusted OIBDA [Operating income before depreciation and amortization)] range of $180 million to $190 million, which would be an all-time record,” reads the report. “The change is attributable to the delay in completing a previously contemplated agreement in the MENA [Middle East and North Afric] region and the impact of accelerated investment to support content creation. While the Company continues to work toward the completion of a MENA agreement, no assurances can be given in this regard. The Company expects to have clarity on this point in advance of providing guidance for 2020.”
“In the quarter, we accelerated strategic investments to support our content creation,” said WWE co-president George Barrios. “Although we have modified our 2019 guidance of Adjusted OIBDA to a range of $180 million to $190 million, performance in this range would still be an all-time record. We continue to believe in WWE’s global growth potential and remain focused on maximizing future opportunities and shareholder value.”
Things will be much different when we get the Q4 and annual reports, though, because the new domestic television deals kicking in for Monday Night Raw (on USA Network), Friday Night SmackDown (on Fox), and NXT (also on USA Network) all got going at the start of October. Raw now brings in $265 million/year ($66.25 million/quarter), while SmackDown is getting WWE $205 million/year ($51.25 million), bringing the company to record revenue and profitability levels.
David Bixenspan is a freelance writer from Brooklyn, N.Y. He writes the Babyface v. Heel subscription blog/newsletter and co-hosts the Between The Sheets podcast every Monday at BetweenTheSheetsPod.com/everywhere else that podcasts are available. You can follow him on Twitter at @davidbix and view his portfolio at Clippings.me/davidbix. 
