
# 'Housefull 4' box office collection Week 1: The Akshay Kumar starrer witnesses an exceptional first week

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:40:56+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/housefull-4-box-office-collection-week-1-the-akshay-kumar-starrer-witnesses-an-exceptional-first-week/articleshow/71850999.cms)

Farhad Samji directorial comedy-drama 'Housefull 4' starring Akshay Kumar in the lead role has witnessed an excellent first-week collection at the box office. The reincarnation comedy has been able to record exceptional collection during the weekdays, despite only collecting Rs 50 crore in its first weekend. This film took-off on Monday post the Diwali holiday and witnessed completely occupied mass centers and single screens.

        Read Also:
        'Housefull 4' box office collection Week 1 estimates: The Akshay Kumar starrer looks all set to post a huge first-week figure
      
As per the latest report on the Boxofficeindia.com, on Thursday, the film has raked in Rs 12.75 crore on its seventh day at the box office. The film has managed to collect a total of Rs 137.25 crore in its first week at the box office.
The film has done a bit low in metros due to unfavourable reviews and a lot of negativity in the trade market. The film has collected a huge Rs 87 crore over the four days post-Diwali holiday. The Gujarat/Saurashtra circuit leads the way with huge record-breaking numbers of the last four days. The film has also done excellently in northern and central Indian circuits.
The collections over the last three days in Saurashtra are higher than the first three days of 'Bahubali - The Conclusion.' 'Housefull 4' has also crossed the lifetime collection of last year's Diwali release 'Thugs Of Hindostan' within its first week.
Directed by Farhad Samji, ‘Housefull 4’ boasts of an ensemble star cast that includes, Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon, Riteish Deshmukh, Kriti Kharbanda, Bobby Deol, Pooja Hegde in the lead roles. The film is the fourth installment of the hit comedy franchise. The film hits the screens on October 25 and clashed at the box office with Rajkummar Rao's 'Made In China' and Taapsee Pannu-Bhumi Pednekar's 'Saand Ki Aankh'.
