
# Man dies after alleged attack outside The Newmarket Tavern, homicide investigation launched

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:32:40+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Waddington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/man-dies-after-alleged-attack-3513790)

A man has died after an alleged attack outside a Plymouth city centre pub on Bonfire Night, police have confirmed.
Shortly after 7pm on Tuesday, November 5 police were called after what was described as a 'major incident' outside The Newmarket Tavern, in Market Way.
Officers and ambulance staff were called to the scene at about 7.20pm as Plymouth celebrated the fireworks.
A man in his 50s was taken to Derriford Hospital with life-threatening injuries.
Police have now confirmed he has died. His next of kin have been informed.
Following the alleged attack police issued an appeal following the alleged attack.
A spokesperson said at the time: "A 34-year-old man from Plymouth has been arrested on suspicion of Grievous bodily harm (GBH) and is in police custody. Enquiries remain ongoing."
Today, confirming the man's death, a force spokesperson said: "A man has died following an incident in Market Way, Plymouth, on the evening of Tuesday, November 5.
"Police were called to a report of GBH outside of a pub at around 7.20pm. Officers attended the scene along with ambulance staff.
"A man in his 50s was taken to Derriford Hospital with serious injuries. Sadly, the man died from his injuries in the early hours of this morning [Thursday 7 November].
"His next of kin have been informed.
"Police are investigating a homicide and have issued an appeal for witnesses, or anyone with information, to come forward.
"A 34-year-old man from Plymouth was arrested on suspicion of GBH and has been released under police investigation as enquires continue.
"Anyone with information is urged to call police on 101, or email 101@dc.police.uk, quoting crime reference number CR/100223/19."
