
# Wife of man reported missing 9 times in 3 years 'never knows if he's dead or alive'

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:46:28+00:00**

Author: **Amy Orton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/wife-man-reported-missing-9-20803027)

The wife of a man who has been reported missing nine times in just three years says "I never know if he's dead or alive" as she opens up on the heartbreak.
Jo Haddows has reported her husband Robert missing nine times, most recently in September when he didn't turn up for work.
“It’s been a really tough time,” she told Leicestershire Live .
“But this man is amazing. He’s been through such a difficult time and he’s doing really well.
“To think he’ll be back at work soon, after just over a month shows how far he’s come.”
“I went there but I didn’t go in, said Rob.
“I just wanted to disappear for a while, things were getting on top of me.”
Rob, 46, has had nine mental health crises in the past three years - every time he’s gone missing. 
Suffering with his mental health since he was a teenager, Rob has been diagnosed with psychosis and unstable personality disorder. During the last three years, he’s also been admitted to the Bradgate Unit four times.
The couple, who live together in Earl Shilton, have now thanked the services who helped find Rob and are aiding his recovery. 
Jo said: “The police were fantastic. They know that Rob is vulnerable and he’s been missing before. Within the hour they were out looking and getting the message out there.
“And we owe a massive thank you to the search and rescue volunteers as well, people that gave up their time to help in the search.
“We just can’t ever thank them all enough.”
But the couple, who met through homelessness charity Emmaus, also wanted to highlight what they say is a lack of support at community level.
 
Jo said: “Rob was discharged 16 days ago and as yet no one from the community mental health team has been round to see him.
“The staff are brilliant, this isn’t about them, it’s about services that have been stripped back.”
In an attempt to speed up Rob’s recovery, the pair are paying privately for mental health support.
“It’s expensive and it’s difficult with Rob not working at the moment but I’d rather go without food and get Rob the help he needs than wait any longer for the therapy and help he needs, it’s been three years now and with everything that’s gone on he should have been seen.
“He has a great consultant and the staff we have been supported by throughout have all been brilliant, but the system is broken and it’s failing people.”
Jo said she’s worried that others will be having similar experiences.
“There must be so many other people in our position that could be helped sooner if only the help was there,” she said.
“When Rob goes missing it puts a huge strain on lots of resources, the police, A&E, search and rescue, but if there was a better system in place, it might not come to that point in the first place.”
Rob says he goes missing when he becomes overwhelmed.
“I’m not really sure what happens, I get in a very confused state and just want to be away from people,” he said. 
“I take my tablets but I don’t want to die, I don’t take the tablets to overdose, I just want to get away from it all and sleep.
“I just go off to be alone but I’m not really there. When the police find me I can’t really tell them anything.
“This time I was badly dehydrated and really confused.”
Rob said his mental health issues stem from childhood trauma and by spending his young life in the care system. 
“I used to be homeless so I usually go and wander around wooded areas, I want to just go to sleep. The last time I was missing I was at Burbage Common most of the time.
“The police found me just walking down the road near there.
“It’s not lost on me that a lot of resources go into looking for me, but at the time I don’t know what I’m doing.”
Speaking about when Rob does go missing, Jo struggles to hold back the tears. “It’s just horrible.
“Last time, Rob sent a text to his mental health worker saying he was going to take all of his pills. She let me know and I reported him missing.
“I can’t describe the worry that you feel, the helplessness. I know he’s been before and he’s found but there’s always that fear that there won’t be the happy ending.
“I didn’t know if he was dead or alive. It’s the same every time, you don’t want to think the worst but until you know otherwise you can’t help it.”
After Rob was found he was taken to A&E and handed over to medics. 
Jo said: “ The police called  and told me they’d found him and he was on his way to the Royal.
“I was so relieved that he was safe. 
“About 30 minutes later I was on my way to see him and someone from the hospital rang and asked if I was with him, I told them I was on my way there and that’s when they told me he’d gone missing again.
“I just couldn’t believe it, that he’d been there, safe and now he was gone.
“He was still in such a vulnerable state and had tablets left. I was so worried.”
Rob had been in the waiting room before he again became overwhelmed and walked out, prompting a second missing person investigation in 24 hours.
Jo explained: “When Rob is in crisis, he’s very calm, very quiet, he’s not shouty or loud or violent.
 
“What that means is that he just blends in, and I think that’s how he left unnoticed.”
Rob was found by the police  in Hinckley later that day .
“The longer it went on the more worried I was, I just wanted him back,” Jo said.
He was taken to A&E again and police officers waited with him until Jo arrived.
“I understand that the police don’t have time to sit and wait for a mental health assessment, and that the staff in A&E are busy but someone should have realised that he wasn’t there anymore. 
“We had to go through the whole missing person report again, it set us right back to the beginning.”
 
After being  seen by medics at the LRI , Rob was transferred  to the Glenfield.  
Jo said: “When they said he was going to be admitted a weight just lifted from my shoulders.
“He’s been in the Bradgate Unit before and they are brilliant. I knew he’d be looked after there and get the help he desperately needed.”
Rob added: “I’ve been on the Thornton ward before, the staff know me and I know them and it just made it all a bit easier going in knowing they knew the background.”
Jo said: “They were able to say from the start that Rob wasn’t as bad as he was when he was in for three months in January.
“It was reassuring that the staff and his brilliant consultant could pick up where they left off.”
Now, Rob is recovering before a staggered return to work at the Jury’s Inn, Hinckley. 
Jo said: “They’ve been really supportive and really understanding and we ought to thank them too.
“At such a difficult time there have been so many people who have supported us.”
Rob said: “I’m looking forward to being back at work, I’m going to go back in stages and take my time with it.”
Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trust are in charge of mental health services in the city and county. A spokesperson for the trust said: "While we cannot comment on the care of an individual, our teams work together closely to support  patients through their recovery.
"We know that people moving from a period of care on an acute mental health ward back to the community can feel vulnerable, and patients are given information to ensure they know where to access urgent help during and outside working hours.
"We also have robust follow-up processes, with ward staff aiming to contact them 72 hours after their hospital discharge and again after seven days to check progress. If they are unable to make contact they will continue to try. When the patient moves to the care of a community team they take similar steps.
"We recognise that waiting times for psychological therapy treatment can be lengthy and patients have the support of their GP or community team once they are referred. We are committed to continuously improving our services to ensure patients receive the best therapy for their needs as quickly as possible."
A spokesperson for Leicester’s Hospitals added:  “Our thoughts go out to Rob and his wife, this was clearly a very distressing time for both of them.
“The number of patients that we are seeing with mental health needs has continued to increase and so it is important that healthcare services across our county continue to work in partnership to ensure patients are cared for in an environment best suited to their needs.
“In our emergency department we have been able to provide additional staff support, improved prioritisation of cases and assessment based on the individual’s needs, made possible through a partnership with Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trust.
"It is vital that we continue to develop and improve partnerships like these to ensure that patients and their families can access the care that they need, at the time that they need it."
