
# Pampering At An Oceanfront Resort In Sweden? Yes, Please!

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adrienne Jordan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adriennejordan/2019/11/01/pampering-at-an-oceanfront-resort-in-sweden-yes-please/)

Half-timbered houses, medieval origins, and romantic, cobblestone streets make up the town of Ystad in the region of Skåne, Sweden. However, the gem of the quaint, seaside destination is the 120-year old luxury Ystad Saltsjöbad resort, located on the rocky, black sand coast at Österlen. After you’ve done sightseeing in Ystad (take the impressive, Klostret i Ystad, a centuries-old Franciscan monastery and museum and St. Mary’s Church known for its night watchman's horn signal), spend a few days getting pampered at Ystad Saltsjöbad, which is most famous for being a world-class spa destination:

        Hang out at the Spa Club
      
Imagine a moody day with thick clouds and dark, crashing waves rolling onto a rocky beach. At the property’s Lido Club & Spa, you can glimpse this view from several different places outside and inside the venue. The social spot to meet other guests would be the Pool Club, where you can grab a lounge chair and order drinks and snacks. The other features of the spa to experience would be the heated indoor pool; the low tide pool; and four hot springs outdoors. Because the resort knows how to “do it big”, there is also a jacuzzi; steam room; dry sauna with a view of the sea; and a cold bath to top off the amenities.

        Get Fit
      
After spending some time relaxing next to the spa’s open fire, visit the Lido Club’s Gym & Fitness Room, which is equipped with a variety of machines, medicine balls, bikes, mats and weights. There are also a wide range of instructor-led classes such as yoga flow, pilates mat work, Qi Gong, and Stretch and Balance-offered every day of the week. After breaking a sweat, visit the club’s dressing room equipped with showers, soap, shampoo and lotion to freshen up.

        Book A Treatment
      
The most standout treatment at the property might be the two-hour long Creek SPA Experience, where you and a partner or friend experience a guided spa ritual. This completely unwinding treatment involves different “stations” including a foot bath using salt from the Dead Sea; a steam room; sauna; Turkish hammam, where you soap and scrub your body; and ends with a Rasul ritual with a special mineral-rich Moroccan clay wrap combined with steam.
If you prefer a private session, you can book facials, body treatments, and massages like active peels and aromatherapy massages with body exfoliation.

        End With A Peaceful Sleep
      
That gorgeous oceanfront view? Be sure to book one of the hotel suites that affords that seaside scenery where you can see and hear the crashing waves. For example, the newly renovated ‘double room with a seaview’ has a direct view over the ocean, and comes with a minibar and room for a sofa bed for plus ones. If you want to go all out, then the top of the line suite is the ‘seaview grand suite’ located on the top floor and comes with your own outdoor jacuzzi on a private balcony.
