
# 2020 Ford Everest Sport pricing and specs

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:28:51+00:00**

Author: **James Wong**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/806286/2020-ford-everest-sport-pricing-specs/)

- shares
The 2020 Ford Everest line-up will be joined by a new Everest Sport variant before the end of this year, bringing a range of dark-themed upgrades priced from $62,290 plus on-road costs.
Slotting between the Trend and Titanium grades, the Everest Sport will be available with both the 3.2-litre five-cylinder turbo-diesel and 2.0-litre four-cylinder bi-turbo diesel powertrains, fitted as standard with an automatic transmission, four-wheel drive, and seven seats.
New features as part of the Sport trim level include a black front grille with 'Everest' script on the bonnet, bi-LED headlights ("which provides 17 percent greater lighting penetration, and a 20 percent greater penetration in high-beam mode," according to Ford), black lower bumper accents, black exterior mirrors, black window surrounds and black roof rails.
There's also black 20-inch alloy wheels, unique 'Sport' badging, and a new Deep Crystal Blue 'hero' colour (pictured).
We don't have images of the interior yet, though Ford Australia has confirmed the Everest Sport will get Raceway Blue door pulls and door trim accents, leather-accented first- and second-row seats, exclusive Capital Blue stitching, and a soft-touch dash pad (also with the blue top-stitching).
The Everest Sport also gets a new windscreen-mounted USB port as standard (part of the range-wide MY20 upgrades) which is designed for dash cameras – a Garmin Dash Cam GA55 will be offered through Ford dealerships.
As mentioned above, the Sport will be offered with the 143kW/470Nm 3.2-litre five-cylinder turbo-diesel teamed with a six-speed automatic, or a 157kW/500Nm 2.0-litre bi-turbo four-pot diesel.
Braked towing capacity is rated at 3000kg for the 3.2-litre model, while the 2.0-litre variant bumps the tow rating to 3100kg.
In terms of safety equipment, the Everest Sport will feature a suite of safety systems and driver aids, including seven airbags (with curtain coverage to third third row), autonomous emergency braking with pedestrian detection, lane-keeping aid, traffic sign recognition, auto high-beam, rear-view camera with rear parking sensors, cruise control with speed limiter, hill descent control, hill launch assist, and an E-locking rear differential.
Beyond the addition of the new trim level, the MY20 Everest range picks up the aforementioned windscreen-mounted USB port for dash cameras, while the Trend and Titanium pick up the high-performance bi-LED headlight system.
The entry-level Ambiente rear-wheel drive 3.2-litre model kicks off at $49,490 plus on-road costs, topping out at $72,590 plus on-road costs for the 2.0-litre Titanium 4WD.

        See below for a full pricing breakdown
      

        Options
      

        All prices exclude on-road costs
      
19
nextprevious2020 Ford Everest Sport pricing and specs
