
# Five Ways Your Company Can Move Up Its Digital Maturity

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Young Entrepreneur Council**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/theyec/2019/11/06/five-ways-your-company-can-move-up-its-digital-maturity/)

There is a lot of buzz around digital maturity lately, and for very good reason. According to a 2019 Deloitte study, organizations with higher maturity are about three times more likely to report revenue growth. Further, digital maturity provides organizations with strategic advantages over competitors because it allows them to attract and maintain top candidates and allows them to be more resilient against both technological and market trend disruptions. As pressure to innovate continues to build across industries, digital maturity needs to be a top priority for organizations.With digital maturity being talked about so much, various meanings of the phrase have emerged. So, what actually is digital maturity?  For starters, it is more than just using a new technology. Digital maturity requires a broad, cross-functional strategy of implementing, maintaining and constantly evolving new technologies to drive growth. According to MIT Sloan Management Review and Deloitte’s 2015 global study of digital business, businesses that are digitally mature maintain proactive strategies in technologies such as social media, mobile, cloud and analytics. Organizations that were less mature were more reactive and focused much more heavily on solving business issues that arose with individual technological tactics.
Organizations looking to transform their digital maturity need to prioritize leadership such that it creates a culture focused on technological enablement, sets priorities for digital strategy, collaborates with business partners, streamlines access to customer information companywide and focuses on constant improvement and evolution.

        1. Leadership
      
Digital maturity transformation is just as much about the people within an organization as it is about the technology. Because digital maturity transformation doesn’t happen organically, it will stall and falter without leaders who encourage their organizations to prioritize digital advancement. Leaders need to provide insight, optimism, effort and engagement to their employees in order to create a culture that challenges the digital status quo.
According to "The Digital Advantage," digital maturity combines both digital intensity and transformation intensity; digital intensity is “the level of investment in technology-enabled initiatives meant to change how the company operates,” and transformation intensity is the level of investment an organization places on maintaining leadership dedicated to digital transformation. “Transformation intensity consists of the vision to shape a new future, governance and engagement to steer the course and IT/business relationships to implement technology-based change.” Because digital maturity requires constant evolution, businesses need to invest in leadership that can drive and adjust digital strategy companywide.

        2. Digital Priorities And Foundation
      
Building digital maturity requires several steps that build upon one another, which is why it’s important for organizations to have a strong foundation that includes infrastructure and training.
The first step to prioritization is simply to take inventory of the current technology an organization is using. What assets are already in place that support digital transformation? An example of systems already in place is using shared data or cross-functional communication platforms.
From there, organizations should build strong internal infrastructure that harmonizes privacy and security with flexibility cross-functionally. Siloed or underutilized data should be integrated into other operations, services and products more broadly. Implementing this with back-end operations first is the safest way, as customer-facing functions are of course more visible and create market impacts, both favorable and unfavorable, much faster.
To be able to do all of this effectively, organizations need to prioritize the creation of employee training programs that emphasize flexible digital competencies. Teams should be able to quickly assess and adapt to changing technologies.

        3. Collaboration
      
Organizations shouldn’t shy away from working with external vendors in creating their digital strategy. Relationships with business partners provide invaluable resources, such as technology and intellectual property. Extending outside of an organization's own IT team allows it to innovate, grow and evolve.

        4. Streamlining Customer Information
      
Businesses with high digital maturity create seamless processes that utilize both human and technological capabilities within their organization. Doing so not only frees up talent and resources for higher-value actions, but also creates a better, more unified customer experience that will yield higher success rates.
Customer data and insights that are shared companywide allow an organization to provide a better customer experience overall. When interactions with humans and technology are coordinated and consistent, businesses can engage customers more wholly and allow them to interact with the brand more easily, enthusiastically and usefully. An enjoyable customer experience is necessary for staying competitive in the marketplace.

        5. Adaptation
      
There is no endpoint to digital maturity transformation. To maintain strategic competitiveness, businesses need to be continuously assessing and adopting technology across business lines in order to optimize each technological offering and change in the marketplace.
While it is important to start somewhere with regard to creating a digital maturity transformation, a study from Deloitte found that there is a greater positive impact on revenue growth when changes are done broadly in concert rather than just selectively. To become more digitally mature, businesses need to adopt an expansive, proactive mindset toward creating a culture and strategy that will allow them to be competitive and adaptive as technology and market demands continue to evolve.
