
# Recovery Coaches Saved My Life, So I Became One. I Wish Everyone Could Afford Me.

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:13:00+00:00**

Author: **Madison Feller**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/career-politics/a29036727/opioid-crisis-rehab-sober-coach/)

Back in high school, my parents gave me a lot of freedom. There was an unspoken rule that as long as I got good grades I could really do whatever I wanted. I started doing drugs recreationally—everything from benzos and prescription pills to ecstasy, Molly, acid, and cocaine. I always presented myself as someone who was not getting into trouble during their free time. In reality, it got to the point where I was inebriated from the time that I woke up to the time that I went to bed.
For college, I went to a party school. I was operating under the assumption that I could get fucked up and still do all my school work since that's what I had done in high school. But that was very much not the case.
During the second semester of my freshmen year, I was dating a guy and we developed a love for opiates and the chemically induced affectionate feeling that they gave us. I vividly remember once standing outside his dorm after doing pills together for the first time and this elated feeling of pure bliss. We were looking at each other. It was snowing. I wasn't wearing a jacket. It was this warm, fuzzy feeling, and we were so in love all of the sudden. I chased that moment forever. We both dropped out of school my sophomore year.
I was barely speaking to my parents. I cut myself off. I was living in Vermont with my boyfriend and three other guys. We sold drugs, we bought drugs, and we did drugs. That was it. I was dying; I'm 5'8, and I was 110 pounds. My eyes were sunken in, and my skin was gray.
One day I sent my mom a picture of a new haircut I’d gotten, and though my parents are divorced, I guess she told my dad, and two days later he showed up at my apartment in Vermont and took me home. I started to go into withdrawal, and he couldn't handle it, so he dropped me off at my mom’s.
I'd gotten dopesick before, but I never let it really progress without solving the problem. This time, I couldn't walk. I was sweating, shaking, throwing up. I remember trying to crawl into the shower and not being able to, I was so weak. My mom brought me to the hospital, and I did my first detox.
I got out in six days and immediately started using again. Shortly after that, I was introduced to heroin. At home, I found a boy who was also using opiates. That was the trend for the next four years: I would find a boy, we would get high, we would run out of money, and then I would go to rehab.
I couldn't stop myself. I so desperately wanted to stay sober but literally couldn't. There's something that's so confusing to people about that, but it’s a compulsion, an obsession.
The last time I got high was with drugs smuggled inside Boston cream doughnuts. It was the summer of 2015, and I was dating a coke dealer and using so much. The combination of stimulants and sleep deprivation made me start to go into a psychosis. I was hallucinating, and I was scared.
I checked myself into an emergency psych ward and finally started to come back to reality as the drugs left my system. I was detoxing and, even throughout that, I got my ex-boyfriend to meet up with my current boyfriend so he could shove dope into Boston cream doughnuts and have them delivered to me. I was so determined to get high.
But after that 2015 detox, instead of going home or to a halfway house, where I really didn't have that much support, I went to a sober living facility where I had 24-hour companions for a month and a half. I was inserted into a community of women who were all trying to get sober, and I had someone with me at all times to help me deal with the struggles of early, early sobriety. I was there for almost a year, and it helped me build a life worth living for and staying sober for.
I was also there that I was introduced to a recovery coach. She's who got me into working out and introduced me to people at meetings who encouraged me to get a sponsor and helped me through those emotional struggles. She also inspired me to become a recovery coach myself.
It’s a job that’s targeted toward a specific economic class; I will admit it's definitely a luxury form of treatment.
But my job is not just recovery-focused. Some people struggle with executive functioning, organization, time management skills. Some people simply need help getting up in the morning. I could be living with a client for an allotted amount of time and collaborating with their clinical team. My qualification is essentially my own experience.
I have a client who’s in her early 20s, and we go to a 12-step meeting together. At a meeting, people openly talk about things that they did to support their addiction or their alcoholism. When I first went in, I thought, "I must be the only one who's sunk to that level, who's done that, who hurt someone like that." When you find out that's not true, you reduce that shame. You realize you're a human; you're just somebody who has a disease.
After the meeting, there’s something called fellowship, where women from the meeting will go and get something to eat together, and it's more light-hearted. Staying sober would be really difficult, and maybe kind of miserable, without those connections. We spend a lot of our time in addiction being isolated from the rest of the world. There's a sense of loss when you first get sober, like you can't go out and have a drink with your friend, you can't do this, you can't do that. When you meet a bunch of sober women, you realize that shit doesn't matter.
I'm actually so, so grateful to be an addict. People think that's crazy, but being a heroin addict gave me an opportunity to rebuild my life. I'm proud of the person I am today. I'm not constantly living in fear of, "Who did I fuck over? Who am I going to run into on the street that I wronged?" It's like freedom.
And because I understand how bad it can get, I can draw from my experiences to hopefully help others from hitting rock bottom.

        
          Genna, 26, works as a recovery coach in New York City.
        
      
