
# Paddy Holohan The Renaissance Man; From Council Estate To Councillor

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:41:46+00:00**

Author: **Oisin McQueirns**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/features/oisinmcqueirns2758/paddy-holohan-book/)


        
          “If we took MMA out, I could’ve still written a book.”
        
      
‘A Renaissance Man’ is defined as a person whose expertise spans a significant number of various subject areas.
Paddy Holohan fits the bill but doesn’t necessarily concur with the term. “I see it as resilience,” he explains, “and I’m proud of my resilience.”
Most know Holohan as one of Ireland’s most famous mixed martial artists, a cornerstone of the foundations upon which the sport in this country was built.
Peel back the layers and dig deeper into the surface though and you’ll see there’s much, much more to the man they call ‘The Hooligan.’
_____
In May of this year, Holohan was elected to South Dublin County Council topping the poll in Tallaght South after running as a Sinn Fein candidate.
A venture into politics was seen as a surprise to many but after six months as a councillor, the 31-year-old explains that he believes himself to be less of a ‘politician’ and more of an ‘activist.’
“A politician to me is someone who has an objective to keep up,” Holohan tells Pundit Arena.
Holohan’s new career path has coincided with the writing of his autobiography alongside Pundit Arena’s Richard Barrett, documenting his journey from growing up in Jobstown, reaching the UFC and his untimely retirement from the sport.
The Jobstown native refers to his hometown in the book as “A Darwinian jungle of a council estate,” and despite the challenges of growing up in the area, which Holohan describes in visceral detail throughout, the sense is always there of his love for the place that made him.
Holohan speaks passionately about his desire to educate in his new role. To teach the youth of Jobstown that choosing the right path in life is a decision, no matter how difficult or glamorous their social constructs can often make the wrong path seem.
“For me the idea with Jobstown, what I want to do is, I want to explain to some of the people and educate them on the idea that if you go on and be a criminal or a gangster you get two decisions.
“You get a decision whether you want to be good or a decision on whether you want to be bad and when you start doing something you usually know at the start whether it’s wrong or right and it’s going to end up somewhere.”
“‘Right sound, don’t be a gangster go and get a job in Centra,’ and they’re looking at me like, ‘Why? I’d be 30 and still have nothing, I’ll be living in my Ma’s house and if the council take it off my ma or my ma dies then I’ll have no house and I’ll have to live in a hotel.’
“It’s getting to a stage where it is hard to argue with them. As I said, I don’t condone what kids are doing and how wild they get, but I can understand it.”
As a child growing up in Jobstown and for a period in Lenadoon in Belfast, Holohan had challenges around every corner, some of which documented in the book make it difficult to believe his tale is fact as opposed to fiction.
‘The Hooligan’ however is as real as it gets.
What though does Holohan feel was the most challenging part of telling his story over the course of 258 pages?
