
# Scientists using aerial drones to compare northern and southern whale behaviour

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:31:00+00:00**

Author: **Hina Alam, The Canadian Press**

Original: [www.ctvnews.ca](https://www.ctvnews.ca/sci-tech/scientists-using-aerial-drones-to-compare-northern-and-southern-whale-behaviour-1.4670122)

VANCOUVER -- A University of British Columbia scientist says he was delightedly caught off guard when he spotted a southern resident killer whale calf appearing to use a fish as her teething ring and swimming with her mother this summer.
"We saw this female calf with its mom and what really caught my attention is that on the two days we saw her, she had a fish in her mouth," said Andrew Trites in an interview Monday.
Trites led a team of scientists over three weeks in August and September monitoring pods of southern and northern resident killer whales in the Salish Sea and off the central coast of B.C. The team is using aerial drones and sonar to study whether endangered southern residents are getting enough of their preferred prey, chinook salmon.
He said the calf holding a fish in her mouth was about three months old and they only drink milk at that age.
"Whether or not the calf was teething or learning to be just like mom ... these are some of the things that we observed and we talk about, and wonder and speculate on, and helps us get a bigger and more complete picture of the lives of these whales."
The scientists are comparing the eating habits of the southern and northern resident killer whales.
Like southern residents, the northern whales feed primarily on chinook and chum salmon and face many similar threats from water and noise pollution, increased shipping traffic and reduced abundance of food, Trites said.
But unlike their southern counterparts the northern population has increased significantly, he added.
The southern resident killer whales number 73 while their northern counterparts stand at about 300.
So, one of the things scientists want to compare is which of these mammals has better habitat in terms of food.
"Are they getting enough fish to know where are the fish? How many are there? Are they deep, are they shallow, far from shore, near to shore?" Trites asked.
"And we have to get all this information to answer the question: Are there enough fish here for the southern resident killer whales?"
