
# Inside the converted Airbnb shipping container branded 'an abomination' by council

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:49:30+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/inside-converted-airbnb-shipping-container-17182182)

A shipping container which was converted into an AirB&B has been branded "an abomination" by furious councillors.
The container, which has no planning permission, was called in for scrutiny by concerned councillors who were worried about its design and location.
Located behind the Eat Drink Sleep B&B in Sleaford, Lincolnshire, a retrospective planning application for the container was rejected by a planning sub-committee on Tuesday, October 29.
North Kesteven District Council said members of the planning sub-committee had labelled it as "appalling".
But its owner claimed the container was "in keeping with the industrial nature of Moneys Mill area" and said they intended to paint it and install a natural roof garden.
In a scathing Facebook post, North Kesteven District Council wrote: "Appalling, ghastly, horrible, truly hideous, an abomination, awful' - all reactions by councillors in response to this shipping container being used as an an AirB&B in Sleaford.
"A planning committee last night refused a retrospective application for it to be used behind EDS B&B at Southgate, where it was felt to be incongruous with a conservation area and harmful to the area and its listed buildings.
"One side is already converted into a 'pod' with access cut into container wall, shower, toilet, seating, double bed etc. Solar panels and outdoor area with artificial grass were planned to complete the set-up."
The application was called in for scrutiny by councillor David Suiter who represents Sleaford Navigation at NKDC.
He told a local paper: "Containers are increasingly being used as building materials.
"Some of them have received awards for their design and they can be built relatively quickly.
 
"The application was basically a raw container that hadn't been cladded and it was in a conservation area. It looked like something that would be more in keeping with an industrial site than in the centre of Sleaford.
"I hope the applicant will consider taking on board all the advice the committee gave and come back with a new application."
The decision faced fierce backlash with some people calling it "utter rubbish".
 
One person wrote: "I'm sorry but utter rubbish, these pods are great, can't believe that the council would stand in the way of much needed and well thought out accommodation, and the fact they're recycled shipping containers is even better!
"I hope this can be re-presented to the council and they reconsider their decision."
Another wrote: "I think it's fab inside. They could always just paint the outside to help it blend in a little but maybe the idea is for it to stand out."
 
A third said: "To be fair all they really need to do is put in an order for it to be clad appropriately to fit the area," they wrote.
"Would be a good idea if councils took note of what's possible because if we did more of this then we could house the homeless very well and very cheaply."
The container was intended for use as two AirB&B rooms complete with running water, electricity and drainage.
