
# Warframe celebrates anniversaries on Switch and PS4 with free stuff

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:30:00+00:00**

Author: **CJ Andriessen**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/warframe-celebrates-anniversaries-on-switch-and-ps4-with-free-stuff-571214.phtml)

One year ago this month, Warframe launched for Nintendo Switch. Six years ago this month, it launched for the PlayStation 4. Rather than celebrate these milestones separately, developer Digital Extremes is gifting players on both system skins, noggles, and more.
For PS4 players, you need to log in anytime between now and December 2 to receive an Obsidian Kyroptera Syandana, Obsidian Dex Dakra Skin, and a Forma. There will also be four alerts during this period where players can unlock even more goodies. Complete all four and you'll earn:
Switch owners who log in between now and December 2 will receive the Opal Imperator Syandana, Opal Dex Dakra Skin, and a Forma. Complete the anniversary alert and you'll receive the Opal Excalibur Noggle. Both PlayStation and Switch owners will also be able to purchases a console-specific color picker in the market for just one credit during this time. PS4 owners can also pick up the Obsidian Azura Excalibur Glyph in the market for the same price.
I haven't booted up Warframe on my Switch in more than a month, so this is just the push I need to get back into it. Both the PS4 and Switch anniversary celebrations end December 2, 2019, at 2:00 pm ET.
Six Year Anniversary [Warframe]One Year Anniversary [Warframe]
