
# Manuel Pellegrini under pressure at West Ham after winless run extends to six matches

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Darren Lewis, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-lewis/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/manuel-pellegrini-under-pressure-west-20811422)

Manuel Pellegrini is under pressure for the first time at West Ham .
Fans are turning on the Chilean after six games without a win and a string of poor performances, the most recent being Saturday’s home defeat to Newcastle .
Pellegrini was brought to the club on £10million a year in May 2018. He has been given free reign to make his own signings and is in the second year of a three-year deal.
The club remain supportive but the initial positivity of his bringing in the man who lifted the title with Manchester City has stalled at the London Stadium.
Concerns have been expressed at Pellegrini’s tactics and team selection after a promising start to the current campaign.
Chief among them is the Chilean’s faith in reserve keeper Roberto who has yet to convince supporters he is up to the task of replacing the injured Lukasz Fabianski.
Roberto, signed on a free transfer to replace Adrian, was at fault for two of the three goals scored by Newcastle in Saturday’s defeat - the second in three home games.
He is also yet to keep a clean sheet in his four games since taking over from Fabianksi who is set to return in January.
In Roberto’s first game, at the end of September, he conceded four as West Ham were sent crashing out of the Carabao Cup at League One Oxford.
In his five League games between the sticks the club have shipped ten goals and have dropped to 13th in the Premier League.
During that poor run Pellegrini has failed to get the best out of wide men Andriy Yarmalenko and Felipe Anderson while some fans want to see more of rising star Nathan Holland, who scored twice for the Under-23s against their Swansea counterparts at the weekend.
Pellegrini has also come under fire for picking veteran right back Pablo Zabaleta against Newcastle ahead of much younger - and faster - Ryan Fredericks.
Exciting Spanish under-21 midfielder Pablo Fornals was left on the bench on Saturday while there are fears that striker Albian Ajeti is unsuited to the Premier League following his £8m summer arrival as cover for club-record signing Sebastien Haller.
The Swiss forward is yet to score while Haller has had precious little service up front.
With a trip to Burnley at the weekend the heat is now on Pellegrini to get him and his side firing - and to stop the rot.
