
# Harry Dunn injuries not considered life-threatening despite breaking every bone

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:21:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/world/harry-dunn-injuries-not-considered-life-threatening-despite-breaking-every-bone-962312.html)

The injuries suffered by Harry Dunn were not considered life-threatening by British emergency call handlers, despite “breaking every major bone” in a collision described as a “crash fireball”.
The 19-year-old was forced to wait for paramedics for 43 minutes after the emergency call was “wrongly categorised” and he was “left to die in a ditch” at the side of the road, the family’s spokesman said.
Mr Dunn’s family met with chief executive of East Midlands Ambulance Service Richard Henderson and director of quality Nichola Bramhall in England to discuss the delay today.
The family’s spokesman Radd Seiger said Harry’s parents, Charlotte Charles and Tim Dunn, are “full of praise” for the work of the paramedics on the scene, but said the delay in getting to their son was “worrying”.
The teenager was killed when his motorbike crashed into a car outside RAF Croughton in England on August 27.
The family are currently pursuing a civil claim for damages which could be worth “millions of dollars” against the suspect in the case, 42-year-old Anne Sacoolas, after she was granted diplomatic immunity in the days following the crash.
The PA news agency understands that the first call made by a witness to the collision was put in category two, which are incidents of a potentially serious condition, by ambulance staff – which estimates a waiting time of 40 minutes for patients.
If the teenager’s condition was considered as category one, which is described as life-threatening and needing immediate intervention, ambulance crews should aim to attend in seven minutes under NHS England guidelines.
Speaking to PA about a “constructive” meeting, Mr Seiger said: “Both parties agreed it was not acceptable in the 21st century for a 19-year-old boy to be lying on the side of the road waiting for help for 43 minutes.
“It actually got recorded as a category two call, but that is something that they couldn’t go into.
“A serious road traffic collision should be recorded as category one – he had compound fractures and he was clearly very seriously ill from the start.”
PA understands Mr Dunn’s cause of death was confirmed as hypovolaemic cardiac arrest and multi-site skeletal, abdominal and chest trauma sustained in a road traffic collision.
