
# Positive reactions to Robredo move

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:22:36+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/positive-reactions-robredo-move)

In a statement, LP Secretary General and Quezon City Rep. Kit Belmonte said the opposition party will be behind Robredo in her fight against drugs and poverty.
Robredo is the current LP’s Chairperson. Duterte has appointed her to co-chair the Inter-Agency Committee on Anti Illegal Drugs. Her main task includes oversight function over drug enforcement agencies and offices including the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency
“If she is given the tools and is empowered by the administration, we can now altogether prove: The war on drugs can be part of the war against poverty— and not a war against poor people. We approach this development with cautious optimism and with great pride in the courage and sincerity of our Party Chairperson,” Belmonte said.
Meanwhile, the chairman of the House Committee on Dangerous Drugs Rep. Robert Ace Barbers said this is the opportunity for Robredo to present her ideas and suggestions to solve the drug problem.
“I welcome her decision. Before she is telling the public she has better options in solving the drug problem in the country. This is the best time to present it, ilatag niya para makita ng tao kung tama siya,” Barbers said in an interview.
In her statement, Robredo said she accepted the position because she wants to save the lives of innocent people who are becoming casualties of the drug war.
“At kahit sabihin na nating ang alok na ito ay pamumulitika lang, at hindi naman talaga ako susundin ng mga ahensiya, at gagawin nila ang lahat para hindi ako magtagumpay, handa akong tiisin ang  lahat ng ito. Dahil kung meron akong maililigtas na kahit isang inosenteng buhay, ang sinasabi ng prinsipo at puso ko ay kailangan kong subukan,” Robredo said.
The LP on the other hand has confidence that Robredo can do her job successfully
“Kilala namin si VP Leni: Pangunahin sa puso sa isipan niya ang magtrabaho nang maayos, at isulong ang kapakanan ng Pilipino. Masipag si VP Leni. Sinsero si VP Leni. Matapang si VP Leni. And she will never shrink from any responsibility to do what she can to make our people’s lives better,” Belmonte said.
“Kami man, may agam-agam. We know that there are those who might go against the direction she might set. Alam naming maaaring hindi ipatupad ang kanyang mga atas. Alam namin na maaaring para sa administrasyon, pulitika lang lahat ito,” he added.
He also stressed that Robredo does not play high politics with the lives of the people.
“We know that her sincerity overcame her own doubts, and it overcomes ours. Kung seryoso ang administrasyon, alam naming mas seryoso si VP Leni na tumulong.
Pagkakataon ito para ibaling ang anumang drug policy ng gobyerno sa tunay na dapat nitong pagtuunan: Sugpuin ang ugat ng droga, siguruhing magbubunga ito ng mas ligtas na mga komunidad, at tiyaking matitigil ang walang-habas na patayan,” he said.

        Guevarra welcomes Leni
      
Justice Secretary Menardo Guevarra yesterday welcomed the inclusion of Vice President Leni Robredo in the government’s Inter-Agency Committee on Anti-Illegal Drugs (ICAD).
“The DOJ (Department of Justice) is an active member of the ICAD and is the lead agency in the committee’s justice cluster. It welcomes the inclusion of the VP in the ICAD and hopes that she will inject fresh and constructive insights into the government’s anti-illegal drug campaign,” Guevarra said.
“Kung ito ang pagkakataon upang matigil ang patayan ng mga inosente at mapanagot ang kailangang managot papasanin ko. Kaya tinatanggap ko ang trabaho na binibigay sa akin ng Pangulo,” Robredo said in accepting the drug czar post.
“Tinatanong nila ako kung handa ako para sa tarabahong ito? Ang tanong ko handa ba kayo para sa akin?” she added.
ICAD was formed on March 6, 2017, through Executive Order No. 15.
Under the EO, the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency heads the committee with 20 government agencies as members.
Robredo’s appointment came days after the President offered to have the Vice President as his drug czar and give her “full powers” to run the government’s war on drugs for six months.

        PNP reacts
      
“The PNP welcomes the acceptance by VP Leni Robredo of the position as Co-Chair of ICAD to oversee the campaign against illegal drugs.
As a member of ICAD, the PNP will extend to her utmost courtesy, cooperation and full support towards the attainment of a drug free Philippines by 2022,” said PNP spokesman Brigadier General Bernard M. Banac.

        PDEA statement
      
“This morning, we have concluded the third quarter meeting of the inter-vagency committee against illegal drugs (ICAD), wherein before we adjourned I announced that VP Leni Robredo has accepted her designation as ICAD co-chairman,” said Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency chair, Director General Aaron N. Aquino.
“While this is a welcome development for the illegal drug campaign, personally I cannot help but feel somehow awkward to have the second highest elected official of the country as my co-chairman in ICAD.
“The campaign against illegal drugs is far from over. The help of Vice President Robredo is very much appreciated especially in terms of harm and demand reduction effort,” the official added.
“I have also instructed my ICAD secretariat to prepare a briefing on ICAD accomplishments and way forward to be presented to the Vice President.
“I am also expecting a call from the VP’s office anytime for the schedule of briefing and meet and greet with the ICAD members.
“The ICAD members are also expecting the same.
“We are all looking forward to working with the new ICAD co-chairman.”
With Jester P. Manalastas and Hector Lawas
