
# The Antidote To The Amazon Squeeze Of Small Businesses

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gretchen Fox**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gretchenfox/2019/11/06/the-antidote-to-the-amazon-squeeze-of-small-businesses/)

As someone who runs a digital marketing agency, I see first hand what a tough climate it is for retailers. Everyone is constantly talking about how Amazon is killing the competition – big and small. And frankly, it can be intimidating for any business owner when headlines highlight the financial difficulties of previously successful retailers like Forever 21 and Performance Bicycle. If those retailers can't compete, how does a small to medium-sized business compete? According to Forbes contributor Brock Blake, Amazon facilitated $63.4 billion in sales on everything from telescopes to toothpaste in just the second quarter of 2019. It is no wonder many small business owners view Amazon and corporate chain retailers as the biggest threat to their bottom line.
It’s true, they are pushing many small businesses out of the market but it doesn’t have to be this way. While other small businesses see the additional closing of familiar stores as a sign of what's to come, our agency has identified an opportunity to establish themselves as not just relevant – but preferred.
As I was preparing a presentation for the upcoming launch of the Outdoor Industry version of MTO EDU, our online education program, I found a fascinating article on Gallup data from 2017 analyzing twenty years of data that says, “The basic data are clear. Gallup's most recent research shows that 70% of Americans have ‘a great deal’ or ‘quite a lot’ of confidence in small business, more than three times the 21% confidence rating for big business.”
And then it goes on with this power quote:
Not only do Americans prefer to shop with local businesses (and have for twenty years),  local marketing company FiveStars says there’s actually a “Local Love Movement” where modern consumers are choosing to forgo big box stores for smaller businesses in their communities.
I’m not surprised. As an advocate and participant in the Conscious Capitalism movement, these consumer shifts go hand-in-hand. Consumers are awakening to their buying power and increasingly want to use their dollar to get more value and impact from their purchases and also to use their purchase power to showcase their own personal values. 
Now, the question is how do small businesses compete with the convenience of infinite variety and next day delivery? 
This is where smart marketing strategies and digital skills make all the difference. In this tougher climate, retailers need to work smarter to be competitive. 
They need to know:
But too often, retailers and small businesses have been slow to move or live in fear that they can compete at all. They tell me they’re too busy to invest the time and/or don’t have enough money or staff. While these things may be true, finding the time and investing the resources into competing is the cost of doing business in the 21st century. 

        I am very frank with small business owners. I tell them: either figure it out or die not trying. 
      
Small businesses can outcompete the behemoths — they’re big, they’re slow and they’re impersonal. 
But the future is for the action-takers and the change-makers — those who won’t sit idly by watching Amazon and other big box stores eat their lunch. At the center of it all, the difference between success or a slow death comes down to one thing and one thing alone — digital marketing skills. It’s really that simple. As someone who teaches digital marketing skills to everyone from kids fresh out of college to Baby Boomer executives and everyone in between — you can do it!
