
# UFC 244 Results: Edmen Shahbazyan Smashes Brad Tavares With Head Kick (VIDEO) In Bonus-Worthy Performance

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/02/ufc-244-results-edmen-shahbazyan-smashes-brad-tavares-with-head-kick-video-in-bonus-worthy-performance/)

If you’re looking for the most impressive and promising prospect in the UFC, it just might be undefeated 21-year-old middleweight Edmen Shahbazyan. On Saturday night at Madison Square Garden at UFC 244, Shahbazyan laid waste to veteran Brad Tavares.A 1-2 combination put Tavares down, but a left high kick ended the evening.
Here is how the MMA community reacted to Shahbazyan’s finish:
Shahbazyan moved to 11-0 with the win. It’s the 10th stoppage victory of his short, but spectacular career. Shahbazyan’s power is startling. You could tell by Tavares’ reaction to the combination that dropped him. Tavares is tough and had only been finished twice in his previous 22 fights.
For him to be so affected by Shahbazyan’s strikes tells us a story. Shahbazyan came into the fight ranked No. 13 and Tavares was No. 11. At the very least, Shahbazyan will replace Tavares in the rankings. There is even a chance he could climb into the Top 10.
If he’s not already in the Top 10, Shahbazyan is on the cusp of getting into the Octagon with a Top-10 opponent. A matchup with Ian Heinisch or Jacare Souza would be a logical next step for the fast-rising youngster.
Tavares is headed in the opposite direction.
He hadn’t fought since June 2018 when he lost a unanimous decision to current UFC Middleweight Champion Israel Adesanya before he won the crown. After a long layoff, Tavares quickly finds himself on a two-fight losing streak.
He’s only 31 years old, but there are a lot of miles on him. Tavares could be a gatekeeper of sorts at middleweight, but he probably won’t find himself in the Top 10 again.
