
# (ADVISORY) Bank operations for Undas 2019

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:39:54+00:00**

Author: **Noreen Jazul**

Original: [Manila Bulletin Business](https://business.mb.com.ph/2019/11/01/advisory-bank-operations-for-undas-2019/)

A number of banks have issued advisories on their branch, ATM and electronic banking operations on November 1 and 2, advising their clients to do their banking transactions accordingly.
All branches of Bank of the Philippine Islands — including BPI Family, and BanKo branches — will be closed on November 1 and 2, both declared as non-working holidays. BPI’s ATMs and Cash Accept Machines (CAMs) will remain available during the holidays.
Metrobank and UCPB both announced that all its branches will be closed on November 1, and will resume regular operations on November 4. Metrobank and UCPB’s electronic banking facilities will remain available for its customers.
Security Bank and Chinabank will also close all its branches on November 1 but will open select branches on November 2.
Security Bank said its NAIA and NAIA Terminal 3 branches will be open on November 2. Chinabank meanwhile uploaded a list of its branches open on All Souls’ Day (Saturday) on their website.
BDO will likewise open select branches on Saturday on shortened banking hours. The list of branches is available on their Facebook page.
PNB, meanwhile, will have operations in select branches both on November 1 and 2.
On November 1 and 2, PNB branches in NAIA 1 Departure Area (4:30 am – 8:00 pm), NAIA 2 Departure Area (6:00 am – 8:00 pm), and NAIA 3 – Arrival Area (4:00 am – 4:00 am) will be open. PNB branches in Manila – Century Park Hotel (10:00 am – 5:30 pm), Iloilo-Iznart (9:00 am – 1:00 pm), Boracay Station 2 (9:00 am – 1:00 pm), General Santos – KCC Mall (9:30 am – 1:30 pm), Zamboanga – KCC Mall (9:30 am – 5:30 pm) will also be open on November 2.
