
# 10 Coaches Who Could Take Over At Bayern

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:31:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/bundesliga-news/10-coaches-who-could-take-over-at-bayern-munich/666717)

After Bayern Munich and Niko Kovac parted ways on the weekend, a host of names, including Jose Mourinho, have been linked with the German giants' vacant coaching job.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see some coaches who have been linked with Bayern!
        
      
The Bavarians announced on Sunday that Kovac has left the club by "mutual consent" following their shock 5-1 defeat to Eintracht Frankfurt on Saturday.
It was Bayern's third defeat of the 2019/20 campaign, and they are currently in fourth spot on the Bundesliga table, four points behind log leaders Borussia Monchengladbach.
The club has confirmed that Kovac himself offered his resignation after reportedly losing large parts of the dressing room.
Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now 
It was also confirmed that Hans-Dieter Flick – Kovac's assistant since the beginning of the campaign – will take over as interim boss. Joachim Low's former right-hand man with the Germany national side, who was part of the technical team when Die Mannschaft won the 2014 FIFA World Cup, will take charge of the games against Olympiacos and Borussia Dortmund this week.
After the big clash against Dortmund, the next international break will come around and Bayern are expected to announce a new manager before club football returns on 23 November.
Former United coach Mourinho is one of the names linked with the German giants, but the club prefers other candidates, according to The Athletic.
Ajax Amsterdam's Erik ten Hag, who was Bayern II coach when Pep Guardiola was in charge of the first team, is understood to be the club bosses' favourite for the position. It has been claimed the 49-year-old is interested in the role, but would only leave Ajax at the end of the current campaign.
Another name closely linked with the Bavarians is Ralf Rangknick, who is currently Head of Sport at RB Leipzig. The 61-year-old left his role as RB Leipzig coach at the end of last season to make space for Julian Nagelsmann. At Bayern, though, he could return to the sidelines, but only if he agrees to focus on coaching while giving up some of the strategic roles he holds at Leipzig.

        
          Read: Outfield Players Who Turned Into Goalkeepers
        
      
Former Arsenal and Juventus coaches are also on the high-profile list of candidates – you can see all of them in the gallery above!
