
# Crazy for Cookies: A taste of the Phuket cookie-themed suite decked out with fresh baked choco chip bar, dough-scented amenities

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:44:13+00:00**

Author: **Coco Travel**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/travel/crazy-for-cookies-a-taste-of-the-phuket-cookie-themed-suite-decked-out-with-fresh-baked-choco-chip-bar-dough-scented-amenities/)

Sure, you like cookies. But do you like them so much that you would plan a whole trip where the experience revolves around cookies? We’re talking not only sinking your teeth into free flow cookies, but also surrounding yourself with a cookie aesthetic and an overwhelming scent of cookies. Full. Cookie. Immersion.
That’s the whole concept of the “world’s first cookie-themed suite”, an experiential stay at the DoubleTree by Hilton Phuket Banthai Resort.
DoubleTree by Hilton has really leaned in hard to its cookie branding — their whole thing is warm, freshly baked cookies upon check-in. They’ve been doing it since the 1980s and even have a chief cookie executive officer (COO).
Anyway, enough cookie history, and back to Phuket.
The whole reason for this cookie-themed suite is to mark (or rather, market) the launch of the hotel’s Phuket location which opened on Sept. 5 of this year. The cookie suite is just a short-term promotional stunt that will live on until Dec. 31, 2019.
A look at the photos of the cookie suite are surprisingly more **tasteful** (bada-bing) than we would’ve expected, in so much as that we were expecting a more kitschy setup from anything with such a strong theme.
A vacation in this suite comes with a bar of gooey cookies, cookie bathrobes and plushies, and a beach kit with a custom cookie beach umbrella and towels, we’re told.
There’s also cookie-scented candles and body-scrubs — just so you can really inhale the sweet cookie aroma with every move.
The 3D2N package, ranges from THB7500 to THB10,000 (US$249 to US$332).
What intrigues us perhaps the most of all though are the Pad Thai and Coconut-flavored cookies that are unique to the Phuket property.
Personally, we do love our cookies but we’re not about to fly to Phuket just for a full-on cookie immersion. However, if you happen to be planning a trip to Phuket before the year’s end and make it to the cookie suite, please let us know in the comments how those novelty cookies taste.

        
          FIND IT:
        
      
Cookie-Themed Suite at DoubleTree by Hilton Phuket Banthai Resort94 Thaveewong Rd, Patong Beach, Phuket+66-76-340850

        Airbnb’s No.3 must-visit place in the world? Buriram, of course.
      

        Visiting the Paris Catacombs: Inside the underground tunnels filled with bones from over 6 million dead
      

        Custom Longboards, Fresh Oysters & Acai Bowls: 7 cool places to shop and eat on your next trip to Biarritz
      

        Origin + Bloom is the stylish new patisserie serving bakes, desserts, sandwiches, and coffees
      

        Rice is Nice: Where to enjoy Thailand’s rustic travel fad (Maps)
      
