
# World OCR 101

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Peter Dobos**

Original: [MudRunGuide.com](https://www.mudrunguide.com/2019/11/world-ocr-101/)

Unlike Spartan or Tough Mudder or OCRWC, which are for-profit race companies and brands, World OCR, is an International Sports Federation/Governing Body. In their own words:
Wait, what is this “FISO” thing? Well, since the modern Olympics were started by a Frenchman, and since the International Olympic Committee (IOC) headquarters are in Switzerland, French is the first language of all things Olympics. “FISO,” pronounced “fee-so” stands for “Federation Internationale de Sports d’Obstacles”, which translates as the “International Federation of Obstacle Sports”. The fact that it refers to itself as “World OCR” in English instead of the standard translation of their French name helps make the link to OCR obvious to casual observers. It can, however, be confusing if you are expecting the standard international sports federation naming conventions. To be clear: World OCR and FISO are the same thing.
So now that we know what World OCR is, what is it good for?
International Sports Federations have two main goals. The first is to represent the needs of the athletes and the second is to bring the “sport” under standard and consistent sets of rules, guidelines, policies, and definitions. This is done to make the sport better, safer, and in many cases more affordable for the athletes. It does not restrict how the sport grows and develops. In fact, one of the goals of World OCR is to encourage and assist in the development of obstacles, formats, and the evolution of races.
The sometimes unstated goal of most sports governing bodies is to try to meet the IOC’s requirements as a recognized sport, which means they are eligible to apply for medal event inclusion in the Olympics. According to the IOC:
Things just got a bit more complicated. Read on.
This will involve expanding and clarifying what is included under the sport of “OCR”. Here is a brief video clip of World OCR President Ian Adamson explaining about the sport vs the disciplines vs the events. Courtesy OCRTube.com
