
# Granit Xhaka sends message to the Arsenal fans after being left out squad for Wolves

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:44:24+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/granit-xhaka-sends-message-arsenal-20795577)

Granit Xhaka has proven he's still a Gooner despite his recent spat with fans resulting him being left out of the Arsenal squad this weekend.
The Gunners are in action against Wolves, where they took an early lead through Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang at the Emirates this Saturday.
Arsenal boss Unai Emery confirmed Xhaka would play no part in the match in the week, saying the midfielder is not in the right frame of mind at the moment.
But Arsenal captain Xhaka wanted Gunners supporters to know that he still loves the team by posting an image of him watching the Wolves game on his home TV.
Alongside the image of the Gunners stars in action, Xhaka wrote: "Come on boys."
Xhaka clashed with fans last Sunday during the 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace. The Swiss reacted to supporters booing him by swearing back at them and cupping his ears.
He released a statement after the incident, reading: "After taking some time to reflect on what happened on Sunday afternoon, I would like to give you an explanation rather than just a quick response.
"The scenes that took place around my substitution have moved me deeply. I love this club and always give 100% on and off the pitch.
"My feeling of not being understood by fans, and repeated abusive comments at matches and in social media over the last weeks and months have me deeply.
"People have said things like "We will break your legs", "Kill your wife" and "Wish that your daughter gets cancer".
"That has stirred me up and I reached boiling point when I felt the rejection in the stadium on Sunday.
"In this situation, I let myself be carried away and reacted in a way that disrespected the group of fans that support our club, our team and myself with positive energy.
"That has not been my intention and I'm sorry if that's what people thought.
"My wish is that we get back to a place of mutual respect, remembering why we fell in love with this game in the first place. Let's move forward positively together. Granit."
