
# IND vs BAN | I woouldn't change the playing eleven for the second T20I, says VVS Laxman

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:39:25+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/ind-vs-ban-i-woouldnt-change-the-playing-eleven-for-the-second-t-20-i-says-vvs-laxman?utm_medium=rss)


        Legendary Indian batsman VVS Laxman said that he would not expect any changes in the Indian line-up after their loss in the first T20I against Bangladesh. Laxman believes that the youngsters should be given consistent opportunities as India are looking to build a team for the upcoming T20 World Cup.
      
There were many flaws in India's first defeat in T20Is against Bangladesh like openers not firing, middle order failing to provide the impetus, lack of death bowling experience, etc. But VVS Laxman still believes that the team management must stick to the playing eleven of the first T20I as dropping them will only reduce their confidence and will be a setback for the team keeping in mind that they need to build a core for next year's T20 World Cup Down Under.
"I wouldn't change anything because this is a process where you are getting these youngsters ready for the T20 World Cup," Laxman said in the post-match show aired on Star Sports.
Laxman believes that India will have to find the players with specific roles in the T20 team and for that to happen consistent chances are a must. T20 is India's weakest of all three formats and there is a need of fearless cricketers who will play an attacking brand of cricket and will be able to express themselves.
Thus Laxman is confident that if proper faith is kept in the youngsters and if they learn from the mistakes that they made and make an effort to improve, they will perform to their potential.
"Chopping and changing will not give enough security which is required for youngsters. Yes I would definitely want them to learn from these experiences and get better and that's what we are looking forward to keeping in mind mission 2020 and the World cup next year," Laxman concluded.
