
# Financial skills everyone should master (1)

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:12:17+00:00**

Author: **Raheem Adebayo**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/06/financial-skills-everyone-should-master-1/)

How much do you really know about money management? Would you say that you have mastered the financial skills that will help you manage your wealth?
Learning the basic financial skills may just be what you need to give your net worth a big boost. A lot of millionaires did not start with a lot of money. They had to learn how to make do with what they had. Instead of waiting until they earned enough money, they acted on their dreams. What made them successful is not the amount that they started with. It was their habits and skills that eventually led them to financial success.
Budgeting plays a very important role in personal finance and it does not require any formal education to understand the basics of budgeting. Just come up with a detailed budget to start deciding where you want your money to go. Here are some financial skills that will help you navigate the complex world of money management.
Speaking of sticking to something, commitment is everything. You can’t do anything half-way. You can’t “sometimes do” something and “sometimes not.” You have to be consistent!
It’s kind of like losing weight. If you only occasionally eat less and exercise more, you might lose some weight. But chances are, you’ll probably just go back to your old habits. In the same way, you need to commit to saving money and building your future. Otherwise, you might as well not even bother!

        [READ MORE: 
        Financial Risk Management Tips for Individuals and SMEs]
      
Budgeting helps you decide when and how to spend your money. It’s okay to splurge sometimes, as long as you have a plan and you can afford it. Your budget gives you that power. Start creating and following your budget now so that you can stop stressing about money.
Take five minutes each night to go over your budget. This will help you stay in line with your spending and give yourself a clear picture of how you are doing for the month. If you do it each night, it should only take about five minutes.
Setting clear financial goals can help you stick to your budget. You should have long-term, mid-term and short-term financial goals to work on each year. You do not want to overcomplicate this, but you should check in on your progress toward these goals on a regular basis, such as during your monthly financial check-in session.
This plan will take you through all of your major financial steps—from buying a car to buying a home, and paying for your kids’ tuition fees. It can feel overwhelming to sit down and plan it out all at once, but it can help you prioritize your goals and know when and how to spend your time.
There are a lot of ways you can save money on things you’d normally buy, like clothing or groceries. This may mean learning the best time of year to make purchases. You can find ways to save on everything from your groceries to your furniture. If you make looking for a deal a habit, you will be able to save significantly over the course of your life.
A smart shopper is a bit different from a deal hunter. Once you have perfected the art of finding a good deal, you need to become a smart shopper and determine if you need the item before you buy it.
That does not mean you should not buy things you want, but you should be able to classify them as wants and make sure that you have the money available to cover them without dipping into savings. A good idea is to wait at least 24 hours before making a major purchase.
One of the biggest ways you can save money while shopping is to shop with a list and stick to it. This is a simple habit to start and only takes a few minutes before each trip.
If you have a clear list in mind, it can help you rein in your impulse spending, which can save you time and money. Plus, a list can help eliminate a second trip to the store because you forgot something, which saves you money on gas and additional impulse purchases. Take the time to make a list before each of your shopping trips and the savings will start adding up.
It is important to keep your resume updated so that when you hear of a good job opportunity you can take it. It is also important to continue to build your professional network, even if you like your job. A strong professional network makes it much easier to find a new job when you are ready, or may even present you with a great professional opportunity, even when you’re not looking.

        [READ ALSO: 
        How to apply for a micro-finance loan in Nigeria]
      
These expenses may be things like holiday shopping, vacation spending, taxes, and home repairs.
If you know that expenses come once a year, set aside money to cover them each month. This will make it much easier to pay for these major expenses without having to dip into your savings. Taking the time to identify these expenses and planning for them will help you build more net worth and a solid financial future.
Once you have learned the basic financial skills and implemented them in your life through these tasks, you can expect a certain level of improvement. If you keep at it, you will surely find yourself moving towards a successful and secure financial future.
