
# Mom shares an emotional post about her austistic son! We all need to read this

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:31:25+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/parenting/moments/mom-shares-an-emotional-post-about-her-austistic-son-we-all-need-to-read-this/articleshow/71918303.cms)

Even though being disabled doesn't make you different, the world can be a little harsh and less understanding for kids who suffer from any form of disability. Autism is one such developmental disability that affects kids.
Autism is a genetic problem that impairs brain function and also affects important speech, communication, and interactive skills. No two autism patients are the same and all symptoms present differently. However, the fact they find it difficult to behave or react to situations, it can be hard to find acceptance. Lack of awareness and empathy can push the stigma around. As a parent, this can be daunting.
A woman in America has now gone viral on the internet after detailing one such incident which happened with her son, who suffers from autism.
Kerry Bloch and her husband Robert are parents to David, who suffers from a severe form of autism. As a young child, David was diagnosed with the brain disorder at the age of 4 and as one of the side effects, he was often shunned away and found it rather difficult to make friends. To add to the problem, David also suffers from a sensitive immunodeficiency problem, which meant that fearing infections, he had to spend time in care, away from people and that further pushed him to isolation. He couldn't even speak, only until the last month.
When David did start speaking, his parents couldn't be any happier. However, they were not ready for what came after that.
David saw people on TV laughing and hanging out together and then came up with a question- wondering why he couldn't be like the people he saw on the television and asked this, “Would someone like me?”
This one question broke his mom's heart. Kerry, who considers her son a "best friend" did not know how to respond to this.
