
# AUKEY Omni-Power products charge your devices up to 3x faster, available for 50% with special promo code [Sponsored Post]

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:02:38+00:00**

Author: **A Word From Our Sponsor**

Original: [Android Police](https://www.androidpolice.com/2019/11/01/aukey-omni-power-products-charge-your-devices-up-to-3x-faster-available-for-50-with-special-promo-code-sponsored-post/)

The mobile device and computer charging landscape is a minefield. At this moment, there are more than a dozen different proprietary fast-charging "solutions" pushed by some of the most prominent names in the industry, like Qualcomm Quick Charge, Samsung Adaptive Fast Charging, Apple Fast Charging, Oppo Vooc, and the list goes on. Even worse, each of these standards come with their own specific max voltage, currents, and wattage, adding further to the fragmented confusion. With so many different options and restrictions, the mobile tech industry is in desperate need of a unified charging platform to tame the crowd. Enter AUKEY and its unique Omni-Power charging products, on sale now for up to 50% off with a special promo code.
AUKEY recently introduced seven products that support Omni-Power charging, all of which feature slim, portable designs and premium materials for greater longevity. You can pick up any of these items from AUKEY's online store for up to 50% off now when you use this promo code: ANDROIDPOLICE (valid until December 1, 2019).
To learn more about AUKEY's Omni-Power products, including specs, features, and more, head on over to the official website here. This promotional offer expires on the first of December, so snatch up all the Omni-Power gear you need for home, work, and travel today!
Note: This post is an ad. The content inside does not represent the views or opinions of the Android Police team. Posts like these help fund all the great stuff you see on AP, and you can help support us further by checking out the products or services featured on this page. Interested in a sponsored post or other advertising options? Fill out this form.
