
# Worrying figures reveal patients at East Kilbride A&E faced longest waits in country

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nicola Findlay, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/nicola-findlay/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/worrying-figures-reveal-patients-east-20817764)

Patients at Hairmyres Hospital Accident and Emergency department in East Kilbride waited the longest in Scotland.
Latest figures published by the NHS show that just 69.8 per cent of patients were admitted, transferred or discharged within four hours at Hairmyres for the week ending October 20, while 91 patients had to wait over eight hours and 35 over 12 – the worst performing in the country.
And Hairmyres has been the worst performing of NHS Lanarkshire’s A&Es for three weeks in a row.
The Scottish Government’s own waiting time target is 95 per cent within four hours.
Hairmyres also performed significantly worse than NHS Lanarkshire’s two other A&E sites for the same week – although they also both missed the government target.
In Monklands in Airdrie, 86.6 per cent were seen within four hours while 19 patients waited over eight hours and seven over 12.
And in Wishaw General, 86.8 were seen within four hours and 39 patients waited over eight hours and 14 over 12.
Latest figures for Hairmyres were down on the previous week ending October 13 when 74.5 percent were seen within four hours.
Worryingly, 94 patients waited over eight hours and 29 over 12.
And the week ending October 6, 76.1 per cent of patients were seen within four hours at Hairmyres and 35 patients waited over eight hours.
 
The Auditor General’s Annual Review of the NHS in Scotland for 2018/19 showed that NHS Lanarkshire missed three out of four key targets – 18 weeks’ referral to treatment time, A&E patients seen within four hours and CAMHS patients (child and adolescent mental health services) seen within 18 weeks.
It did, however, meet its target for patients starting cancer treatment within 31 days of a decision at 98.6 per cent – the target is 95 per cent.
The auditor’s report also revealed that in 2018/19 NHS Lanarkshire made of £28.8m – the second largest saving in the country behind Ayrshire and Arran.
Scottish Labour’s Shadow Cabinet Secretary for Health and Sport, Monica Lennon MSP, said: “I am deeply concerned about the pressure on A&E in Lanarkshire, with Hairmyres Hospital recording the worst waiting times in Scotland last week.
“Despite the best efforts of overworked staff, hundreds of people have been forced to wait eight or more hours to be seen at accident and emergency departments. This is down to the SNP’s chaotic mismanagement of the NHS.
“Locally patients are reporting difficulty accessing GP and Out-of-Hours appointments and our hospitals are reaching boiling point.
“The SNP have run out of excuses after 12 years in charge of the NHS in Scotland.
“Cabinet Secretary for Health and Sport, Jeane Freeman, and Nicola Sturgeon must urgently set out a rescue plan for the NHS to ensure it can cope this winter.”
East Kilbride MSP Linda Fabiani said: “Staff in Hairmyres should be commended for doing a fantastic job under extremely difficult circumstances. The East Kilbride News recently reported NHS Lanarkshire staff have been under immense pressure as a result of patients turning to emergency services with minor complaints. For Monica Lennon to turn this issue into a political attack is a cheap stunt.
“The number of attendances for the first four weeks of October against statistics for this time last year is up eight per cent. People should only use A&E only if there is a genuine need for it."
Russell Coulthard, director of hospital services at University Hospital Hairmyres, said: “Like many hospitals in Scotland, we have experienced unseasonable demand in our emergency department, affecting the number of patients admitted or discharged within the four-hour access standard.
“Other factors, such as the severity of a patient’s injury or illness, will also have an impact. We are sorry that some patients have experienced a longer wait as a result.
“We’d advise anyone who is feeling unwell to visit the NHS Inform website for advice on self-care in the first instance, and the NHS24 111 phone service can provide urgent health advice out of hours.”
In relation to the 18-week referral time Heather Knox, NHS Lanarkshire director of acute services, said “overall performance” with regard to targets for planned care was good and said that sustained increases in demand together with a rise in delayed discharges led to pressures in A&E across the health board.
CAMHS service manager Jim Murray, said: “We would like to apologise to any child, young person and their family who are having to wait longer.
“NHS Lanarkshire has taken a number of actions over the recent period to improve our waiting times including successfully recruiting new staff, introducing waiting list initiative clinics and making a number of fixed-term posts permanent.
“While the number of referrals to the service continues to increase, we would like to reassure people that the most urgent cases are seen very quickly.”
