
# Arsenal insider claims some players 'mercilessly take the p*** out of' Unai Emery

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:20:04+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-insider-claims-players-mercilessly-20787993)

Unai Emery is the butt of the joke among certain players at Arsenal's London Colney training base, according to reports.
The Gunners boss recently went viral after a compilation video of his trademark "good evening" greeting went viral.
Emery, who took the reins at the Emirates in 2018, is still mastering his English accent and pronounces "evening" as "ebening".
On social media the mispronunciation has made the Arsenal boss more personable.
But some Gunners stars are reportedly starting to mock the Spaniard behind the scenes at the club, with many of the younger players openly doing impressions of Emery speaking.
According to The Independent a training ground source told the paper that some players "mercilessly take the p*** out of Emery."
On the face of things the ribbing is nothing more than harmless fun.
But Emery's authority has been called into question in recent weeks as problems are slowly starting to boil over in north London.
Arsenal lack any real direction and have consistently thrown away leads and subsequently points against the likes of Watford and Crystal Palace this season.
Fans are starting to get on the Spaniard's back, with many confused as to why he won't play the club's best-paid player Mesut Ozil.
And recently Granit Xhaka had a public spat with supporters cupping his ears and telling them to "f*** off" as they booed him off the pitch at the Emirates.
Emery called on the Arsenal captain to apologise to fans after the incident, but Xhaka is yet to do so and it doesn't appear that he is going to carry out his manager's instruction anytime soon.
Pairs Saint-Germain parted company with Emery in 2018 because he failed to stamp his authority over the big personalities at the club.
Speaking about his experience at PSG and the control Neymar had, Emery said in May: "I know when I am the main man at the heart of the group and when I am not.
"In every club you have to know the role you take and the role the rest of the group gives you.
"In my opinion is that at PSG the leader is called Neymar. Or more exactly, the leader will be called Neymar because he is in the process of becoming it.
"Neymar came to PSG to be the leader, to live the necessary process to become No.1 in the world. It is a process which still needs a bit of time to be achieved. At Manchester City , the boss is Pep [Guardiola]. At PSG, the boss has to be Neymar.
"I had numerous discussions with Neymar on this subject. Some of these discussions didn't give any results but some of them were very production.
"During one of them, we spoke for 45 minutes heart to heart. It was a magnificent moment. He listened to me and I convinced him of certain things but it is a process, one that will make him the best."
Emery isn't in immediate danger of being sacked, but things can change quickly in football and he will be keen not to suffer the same fate he did in France.
