
# L’Oreal’s Award for Women of Worth showcasing talented change-makers

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shaheena Janjuha-Jivraj**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/shaheenajanjuhajivrajeurope/2019/11/01/loreals-award-for-women-of-worth--showcasing-talented-change-makers/)

"Because you're worth it!" the iconic tag line associated with L'Oreal's advertising campaign is the inspiration behind the fourteenth year of the company's Women of Worth awards. The nominees for 2019 present a collection of dynamic women who are change-makers pushing boundaries to create change in their communities through volunteerism. The breadth of women celebrated by the Women of Worth awards demonstrates the impact of female founders who are working on causes to address some of the most pressing issues in society. The ten nominees who are leading not-for-profit organizations each receive $10,000 along with capacity building opportunities to scale up their projects. Members of the public have the opportunity to decide which woman from this extra-ordinary group will be chosen as the "National Honoree" by casting their vote at the Women of Worth website.
The projects this year cover a diverse range of projects set up by visionary women:
Hetal Jani, Founding Executive Director of SPEAK Mentorship: for immigrant girls to prepare for college and careers.
Brittany Schiavon, Founder of Brittany's Baskets of Hope, providing support and handmade items for families with Down Syndrome babies.
Crystal Chatman, Founder of Beautiful Spirited Women, supporting teenage girls through mentoring andt teaching healthy self-esteem and safe sex.
Judy Winter, Cofounder Eric 'RicStar' Winter Music Therapy Camp, offering music therapy services to children with special needs.
Ni’Cola Mitchell, Founder of Girls Who Brunch: i, working with at risk-teenage girls teaching literacy, education and critical life skills.
Raja B. Marhaba, Founder of The Jonathan Foundation For Children with Learning Disabilities, providing support to help families with children with learning disabilities navigate special education systems.
Sally Berenzweig, Co-founder KidSafe Foundation, teaching personal safety to children and adults with the ultimate mission of building strong, resilient families.
Samantha Gerson, Founder of UnBroken, offering free legal and therapeutic support to adolescent survivors of institutional abuses such as conversion therapy.
Two other nominees spoke to Forbes sharing their motivations for starting the projects. 
Shreyaa Venkat is seventeen years old. Like any high school senior, her day involves juggling school work, assignments but her extra-curricular activities include deploying five hundred volunteers to work on a range of projects across the Washington area. Her project, called Nest4Us works with vulnerable groups to provide support using a network of volunteers from the age of years to seventy. Shreyaa launched the program in 2016, and with her team of volunteers delivers weekly tuition programs to school children and food parcels to homeless veterans. Shreyaa is very clear that the impact of her work is to spread ripples of kindness throughout the community and provide opportunities for anyone who wants to help and support their community.
Shante Elliott has also been nominated in the Women of Worth Awards, based in Chicago, and her project TasselTurn transforms the lives of children in foster care through a range of education initiatives. In the United States of America, only 10% of children in foster will graduate from high school with a certificate, despite 86% having aspirations to attend college. The disruption in their lives create insurmountable barriers to remain in school and succedd. TasselTurn is addressing some of these challenges by delivering coaching and curriculum support to twenty-six schools in Chicago. The driving principle for Shante was her own experience of being in foster care as a child, and recognizing the chances of educational success for these children was so slim she needed to build on her experience and create opportunities to provide social mobility through education success. A key element in her program is recruiting young professionals, who have experienced challenges in their own lives to offer mentoring opportunities to the children TasselTurn supports.
Shreyaa and Shante, along with the other eight nominees, each represent the power of working at the community level to create change through volunteering. Social activism is increasingly vital as in the Millennial Impact Report published by the Case Foundation. The majority of millennials see themselves as everyday change-makers and have a stronger focus on social issues rather than institutions. Using innovation, these groups see the opportunity to bring about change to sectors and industries. As everyday change-makers, members of this group prioritize the impact of their work at the grass-roots level. The most potent finding in the research is the sphere of influence, with most role modeling and recognition coming from their peers. The power of aspirational role models cannot be under-estimated, the more diverse, the better to inspire and motivate girls and women to understand the impact of their efforts in changing society. Celebrating the success of these women sends out a strong message that grass-roots voluntary led projects are compelling and transformation and deserve the spotlight to show how different women tackle everyday problems and address under-served areas. For these women, their alignment with L'Oreal is powerful; the global beauty brand is becoming a force for challenging traditional approaches to beauty. One of the most intoxicating and powerful images was watching Dame Helen Mirren, sprint barefoot down the catwalk during the Paris Fashion Week. In other areas, the company has a history of raising the profile of female scientists and, more recently, becoming part of the new initiative "Inspiring the Future." Providing opportunities for school children to connect with a range of different careers paths through role models.
The raft of initiatives supported by L'Oreal speaks to its purpose beyond helping women to look good. Karen T. Fondu President Emeritus and Chairwoman of L'Oréal Paris Women of Worth, explained the importance of these awards; "Women of Worth is inspired by the iconic L'Oréal Paris tagline, 'Because You're Worth It.' It honors the intrinsic worth of everyday women igniting positive change in their communities and championing self-worth in others. Now in its fourteenth year, there are 140 Women of Worth united in their passion for service and representing a breadth of causes tied to societies most pressing and underserved issues." 
 The compound impact of the Women of Worth awards over the fourteen years has enabled nominees and the "National Honoreer" to use the platform and spotlight for their causes through marketing support, influencers, and training, and in doing so, the projects have flourished, passed legislation and expanded their organizations nationally and globally. Each nominee is awarded $10,000 with an additional $25,000 for the "National Honoree" as well as education, training opportunities and platforms to raise her profile. For these women, belong to the group "Women of Worth" means even more to their communities who stand to gain even more resources raising the value of these projects even further.
The L'Oreal Woman of Worth winner is decided by public votes, details on the full list of nominees, and voting instructions can be at the Women of Worth website until 15th November 2019.
