
# Full transcript as Pep Guardiola takes swipe at Sadio Mane's diving after Liverpool win

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:26:52+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/full-transcript-pep-guardiola-takes-20798709)

Pep Guardiola took a swipe at Sadio Mane after the striker's last-gasp goal ensured Liverpool left Aston Villa with maximum points this weekend.
The Manchester City boss had just orchestrated a comeback victory over Southampton and was asked about the Reds ahead of next weekend's crunch clash with the league leaders.
Guardiola pointed out that Mane is a talent, but aimed a dig at him for diving after the Senegal international picked up a booking at Villa Park.
The Spaniard did speak about his own side too, praising the "incredible" amount of chances Manchester City created against the Saints.
Here's everything Guardiola had to say to the press.
"It's happened a lot for Liverpool in the last years [scoring late on]. It's because he's a special talent," Guardiola said of Mane on the BBC.
"Sometimes he's diving, sometimes he has this talent to score incredible goals in the last minute. He's a talent.
"If it's one time, two times, 'we were lucky, we were lucky', but it happened in the last two seasons many, many times – they have a special character to do that.
"We look at ourselves, we know which team we face, I think they have won 10 and drawn one. Next week we go to Anfield to try to play them."
"We played incredible from the first minute until the end. We created an incredible amount of chances," Guardiola said on Sky Sports.
"We were pressured but we did it. We kept our cool and we were patient. We know we will always get chances, it was important that we stayed calm ahead.
"I told them at half-time to keep going for it, to keep attacking. It is the only way. There was no space, it was almost impossible but we did it and that is why I am delighted."
"Football players have pride, they did not want to live again in that position.
"It is our job to try and attack them but I knew it in the Carabao Cup.
"Our problem in the last two games is that one team, they suffer, and with their own pride they are not going to accept under any circumstances what happened against Leicester again.
"And after the goal we conceded it is more difficult. It's been a long time since we won a game in the last few minutes like today."
"We did everything, it was so difficult to attack when they defend with XI players. We did everything we could and in the end our intensity and our players paid off.
"We made a good comeback. Everyone plays the way we want to play. They are top quality players, they are fast players, it was our job to try and beat Southampton and we did.
"It is not about what Southampton do or play but it is about how we reacted to that. Today we have to do everything.
"We have to take the rhythm that we needed forward in every sense of the world from how we pick the ball out of the net to how we take throw ins or corners."
