
# Woman's body found in water at side of Wolverhampton road

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:17:32+00:00**

Author: **Jordan Coussins, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/jordan-coussins/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/black-country/womans-body-found-water-side-17194772)

A major police investigation has been launched after a woman's body was found in water at the side of a road in Wolverhampton.
Emergency crews – including the Midlands Air Ambulance – were called to Dirtyfoot Lane, Lower Penn, after the grisly discovery at around 1.30pm on Saturday, November 2.
Nothing could be done to save the woman and she was confirmed dead at the scene, a spokesman for West Midlands Ambulance Service confirmed.
 
The rural road was closed for more than 24 hours as forensic officers from Staffordshire Police scoured the scene for clues.
A spokesman for West Midlands Ambulance Service said: “We were called to Dirtyfoot Lane, Wolverhampton, to reports of a woman in the water.
“Two ambulances, two paramedic officers, a community first responder and the Midlands Air Ambulance was sent to the scene.
 
“On arrival, crews quickly found it apparent that nothing could be done to save the patient and she was pronounced dead at the scene.”
Staffordshire Police has still yet to release anything official on the incident.
To keep up-to-date with crime in your community, join the Black Country Crime Watch Facebook group where you will be alerted to any suspicious or criminal behaviour happening in your area.    
Keep up-to-date with all things Walsall on our  Walsall Facebook page  - where you'll get the latest news, travel, weather and events in your area.
