
# Google Pay growth continues unchecked with these 119 new US banks (Update: 28 more)

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:27:29+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Schenck**

Original: [Android Police](https://www.androidpolice.com/2019/11/01/latest-google-pay-banks-us/)


        Update 1: 2019/09/18 2:46pm PDTRust never sleeps, and neither does Google Pay's bank sign-up guy. Just hours after we published the list above, Google added another couple banks to its list: American Bank of
         Update 2: 2019/09/18 3:42pm PDTIf this were a newspaper, we'd be using "ink had yet to dry" idioms to describe just how quick Google's being with these recent Pay bank updates. In the not-quite-an-hour
         Update 3: 2019/10/04 9:44am PDTAfter firing off a few back-to-back update rounds, it's now been a couple weeks since we last took a look at Google's latest efforts to recruit every bank in the
         Update 4: 2019/10/25 12:19pm PDTLike stars in the sky or grains of sand on a beach, there continues to be no end in sight when it comes to just how many banks Google is
         Update 5: 2019/11/01 12:28pm PDTWhat do we want? Banks! When do we want them? Banks! You asked for them (or at least someone did), and now Google Pay is delivering, adding another 28 institutions
      
It's been several weeks since we last checked in to see the progress Google was making towards its apparent goal of signing every single financial institution in America up for Google Pay support. Unsurprisingly, Google's been very busy throughout this period, and today we're looking at all the new banks ready to work with the service.
This update's a big one, since we've been cataloging all the new banks Google has brought on board since early August. Not all went live at the same time, but instead we've been seeing them arrive in fits and starts over the course of the past month-and-change. Here's what's new:
That's all for now, but you had better believe Google will have more to share with us soon.

          Update 1: 2019/09/18 2:46pm PDT by Stephen Schenck
        
Rust never sleeps, and neither does Google Pay's bank sign-up guy. Just hours after we published the list above, Google added another couple banks to its list:
End of Update

            Update 2: 2019/09/18 3:42pm PDT by Stephen Schenck
          
If this were a newspaper, we'd be using "ink had yet to dry" idioms to describe just how quick Google's being with these recent Pay bank updates. In the not-quite-an-hour it's been since our last update, Google's added another ten financial institutions:
End of Update

              Update 3: 2019/10/04 9:44am PDT by Stephen Schenck
            
After firing off a few back-to-back update rounds, it's now been a couple weeks since we last took a look at Google's latest efforts to recruit every bank in the nation under the banner of Google Pay support. To that end, it's managed to sign up another two dozen of them. More will follow, until there are simply no banks left. For now, here are your new additions:
End of Update

                Update 4: 2019/10/25 12:19pm PDT by Stephen Schenck
              
Like stars in the sky or grains of sand on a beach, there continues to be no end in sight when it comes to just how many banks Google is capable of bringing on board with Pay. Over the last three weeks, Google has shared the names of an additional 35 banks now ready to work with Google Pay:
End of Update

                  Update 5: 2019/11/01 12:28pm PDT by Stephen Schenck
                
What do we want? Banks! When do we want them? Banks! You asked for them (or at least someone did), and now Google Pay is delivering, adding another 28 institutions to its roster:
End of Update

                  Source: 
                  Google
                
