
# Four babies born in evacuation tents in ravaged Cotabato

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:30:43+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/four-babies-born-evacuation-tents-ravaged-cotabato)

Cotabato Governor Lala Mendoza told DzMM that doctors successfully performed caesarian operation on four women in tents fixed outside the provincial hospital as residents continued to pray that the aftershocks stop as they stayed outside damaged government buildings and other facilities.
‘’Ang hospital namin, may mga cracks... Nasa labas iyong aming ibang pasyente dahil kahit hindi kami high-rise, natakot man din. This is why two caesarean sections happened yesterday in the tents outside the hospital,” the governor said when she broke the good news about the four newly-born babies.
Gov. Mendoza said that one of the women was suffering from ectopic pregnancy. She was all praises for the doctors and nurses who performed the delicate surgical operation in the province which was badly hit by Thursday’s magnitude 6.5 quake.
Officials said that several buildings, including the Cotabato capitol, gymnasium and hospital which previously withstood two other powerful quakes early this month, were finally damaged last Thursday.
Yesterday, the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council said that the death toll from the three powerful earthquakes that hit Tulunan, Cotabato and other parts of Mindanao have already risen to 16.
Seven of the fatalities were from Central Mindanao while three were from Southern Mindanao region.
The NDRRMC said that last Thursday’s tremor killed six while 403 were reported injured. Two others from Davao region were listed as missing.
The fatalities in Tuesday’s quake were identified as Grade 9 student Jessie Parba of the Kasuga National High School in Magsaysay, Davao del Sur who was killed after being hit by debris falling from his school building; Benita Saban, who was buried in a landslide that hit their residence in Barangay Tagaytay in Magsaysay town;
Marichel Morla, a pregnant woman who was struck by a falling beam of a house in Bgy. Banayal in Tulunan, Cotabato; Angel Andy,22; and his son Rene Boy,7, who were both killed after being hit by falling big rocks in Arakan, Cotabato;  Nestor Narcisco,66, who died after a portion of a church undergoing construction in Bgy. General Paulino Santos in Koronadal City collaped and hit him; and Jeremy Sarno,36, who suffered a heart attack in Digos City at the height of the tremor.
Over 6,000 families composed of more than 30,000 individuals from 72 barangays in Regions 11 and 12 were also displaced by the earthquakes. As of press time, a total of 2,552 families composed of 12,760 persons are still staying in government-run shelters.
Police Regional Office 12 director Brigadier General Alfred S. Corpus said they have already activated their Disaster Incident Management Task Group to spearhead all operations in Tulunan, North Cotabato which was the epicenter of the powerful quake around 9 a.m. Tuesday.
The PRO12-DIMTG is chaired by its Deputy Regional Director for Administration, Brig. Gen. Rex M. dela Rosa with Deputy Regional Director for Operations, Colonel Oliver O. Enmodias as the on-scene commander.
De la Rosa said that search-and-rescue teams from PRO12 police offices in the provinces, cities and municipalities hit by the earthquake have been automatically  activated with their men mobilized for disaster response and search-and-rescue missions.
The DIMTG is providing full support to the Regional Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council particularly in forced relocation/evacuation of residents in disaster-prone areas and conduct of disaster response and police intervention among others.
Corpus also advised the public to remain calm and not panic. “The best thing to do is to be prepared by observing the safety measures and necessary preparation that we must undertake in times like this,” the PRO12 director said.
