
# 5G officially commercialized in China - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:57:40+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/01/5g-officially-commercialized-in-china-active-cities-and-prices-listed/)

Rate this post
Yesterday, the three major carriers in China jointly announced the official commercial deployment of 5G in China. In addition, the three carriers also announced the first batch of 50 cities to have 5G. Also, there are only 8 5G smartphones in the Chinese market presently. These include the 5G versions of Huawei Mate 20X, Huawei Mate 30, ZTE Axon 10 Pro, iQOO Pro, Vivo NEX 3, Xiaomi Mi 9 Pro, Samsung  Galaxy Note 10 and Samsung Galaxy A90. Of these, the cheapest is the iQOO Pro 5G which starts at 3398 yuan ($483) while the Xiaomi Mi 9 Pro 5G starts at 3699 yuan ($525).
In addition, the carriers also revealed the standard tariff plans. This is consistent with the reports which hit the web a few days ago. The latest network data plan starts at 128 yuan ($18). Relative to the 4G package, it is not expensive. It is important to note that only 55 Chinese cities have 5G network for now. With over 600 cities in China, Chinese carriers still have a lot of work to do.
China Mobile: Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Chongqing, Shijiazhuang, Xiong’an, Taiyuan, Jincheng, Hohhot, Shenyang, Dalian, Changchun, Harbin, Nanjing, Wuxi, Suzhou, Hangzhou. We also have Ningbo, Wenzhou, Jiaxing, Hefei, Wuhu, Fuzhou, Xiamen, Quanzhou, Nanchang, Yingtan, Jinan, Qingdao, Zhengzhou, Nanyang, Wuhan, Changsha. Furthermore, we have Zhuzhou, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Foshan, Dongguan, Liuzhou, Nanning, Haikou, Qionghai, Chengdu, Guiyang, Kunming, Xi’an, Lanzhou, Xining, Yinchuan, Urumqi.
China’ Unicom: Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Hangzhou, Nanjing, Tianjin, Wuhan, Jinan, Zhengzhou, Suzhou, Qingdao, Chongqing, Chengdu, Ningbo, Wenzhou, Jiaxing, Shaoxing, Dongguan, Foshan, Zhongshan, Zhuhai, Wuxi, Changzhou, Nantong, Shenyang, Changsha, Dalian, Lanzhou, Fuzhou, Shijiazhuang, Taiyuan, Xining, Xi’an, Xiamen, Guiyang, Xiong’an, Hohhot, Nanning, Haikou, Harbin, Nanchang, Hefei, Yinchuan, Kunming 50 cities including Changchun, Quanzhou, Liuzhou, Yingtan and Urumqi.
China Telecom: Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Shijiazhuang, Xiong’an, Taiyuan, Shenyang, Dalian, Changchun, Wuxi, Suzhou, Hangzhou, Jiaxing, Hefei, Wuhu, Quanzhou, Nanchang, Yingtan, Zhengzhou , Nanyang, Wuhan, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Foshan, Liuzhou, Haikou, Qionghai, Kunming, Xi’an, Lanzhou, Urumqi, Chongqing, Jincheng, Hohhot, Harbin, Nanjing, Ningbo, Wenzhou, Fuzhou, Xiamen, Jinan, Qingdao, Changsha, Zhuzhou, Dongguan, Nanning, Chengdu, Guiyang, Xining, Yinchuan.

        Via
      
