
# Sakurai Says Fatal Fury's Mai Isn't In Smash Because The Game Is For Good Boys And Girls

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Ryan Craddock**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/sakurai_says_fatal_furys_mai_isnt_in_smash_because_the_game_is_for_good_boys_and_girls)

If you watched today's Super Smash Bros. Ultimate presentation, you'll probably be aware that Terry isn't the only SNK character being added to the game today.
In the new stage released as part of Terry's DLC pack - the King of Fighters Stadium - you'll spot lots of SNK heroes cheering you on in the background. We're talking characters like Andy Bogard, Joe Higashi, Tung Fu Rue, Athena Asamiya, Iori Yagami, and plenty more; alongside the 50 music tracks that have also been added, it seems SNK has been more than generous to Sakurai and co.
Speaking of Sakurai, the game's director also spoke of another SNK star who hasn't made the cut - Mai Shiranui. Mai is one of SNK's most famous characters, largely thanks to her sex appeal; her official nickname is actually 'The Alluring Ninja Girl' and, according to snk.fandom.com, also appeared in old features like GameSpy's 'Top Ten Babes in Games' and Game Informer's 'Top Ten Hottest Girls of the 16-Bit era'. Let's put it this way - she's the kind of character you probably shouldn't be Googling when you're bored at work.
The reason for her absence, if it wasn't already obvious, is because Mai's design might not be deemed as being appropriate for all ages. Here's what Sakurai had to say:
As Sakurai said this, other people in the room behind the camera gave out a small chuckle.

        Still, with the number of characters now found within this game in one way or another, we really shouldn't complain about anything.
      
