
# Harley-Davidson display Pan America and Bronx at EICMA 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:39:00+00:00**

Author: **Vishal Venugopal**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/harley-davidson-display-pan-america-and-bronx-at-eicma-2019-414798)

The bikes will be powered by a new engine dubbed the Revolution Max - one in a 1,250cc iteration, and the other in a 975cc state of tune.
Earlier this year, what appeared to be production-ready iterations of the Harley-Davidson Pan America and Bronx were spotted. Now, at EICMA, the American manufacturer has officially showcased them, for the first time. The all-new bikes will feature Harley’s latest engine – the Revolution Max liquid-cooled V-twins – in a 1,250cc guise on the Pan America and a 975cc version on the Bronx. Harley has also stated that the new engines provide “a narrow powertrain profile that is integrated into the motorcycle as a stressed member of the frame to enhance centre of gravity and handling.” The engine also uses a counter-balancer to mitigate engine vibration and aid durability.
Renders of the Pan America were released last year, and it showcased the radically different direction the famed American cruiser manufacturer was heading in, with its future models. The adventure tourer will be powered by a 1,250cc V-twin that Harley has interestingly revealed power figures for. The manufacturer claims that peak power and torque figures will be more than 145hp and 122Nm, respectively. The Bronx, on the other hand, is a streetfighter styled bike that is powered by a 975cc, V-twin that will make 115hp and 95Nm of torque.
At the event, Harley-Davidson also announced its new development collaborations with Brembo and Michelin. A product of the former is a radial monoblock four-piston caliper while Michelin helped design tyres specifically for both motorcycles.
The new models are set to launch in the latter half of 2020.
