
# Ashley Young says Ole Gunnar Solskjaer being Man Utd boss is 'like Fergie walked back in'

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:16:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Milne**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/ashley-young-says-ole-gunnar-20827575)

Ashley Young says he can see similarities between the style of management Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has implemented at Manchester United and that of the legendary Sir Alex Ferguson.
Solskjaer played under Ferguson from 1996-2007 at Old Trafford and has often spoke of the influence his former boss has had on his own managerial career.
While Solskjaer has yet to achieve even a fraction of what Ferguson did at the club, Young, who was signed for United by Ferguson, says the two men share many characteristics.
"Since he came in it was like the boss had walked back through the door," Young said. "Same traits, same winning mentality, same desire, hunger. He has been here as a player and know what the club is.
"That is what the club wanted and you can see at times in training he wants to put his boots on and join it. It has been fantastic and it's like the boss has walked back in the door."
In spite of their mixed start to the season, Young sees positive signs for the future, and praised Solskjaer for his impact on the amount of youth team players who are coming through at the club.
Young added: "To see the likes of Mason (Greenwood), Jimmy (James Garner). Chongy (Tahith Chong), Angel (Gomes), Brandon (Williams) to name a few they have done fantastically well.
"They have come in and it's a great opportunity for them when they get minutes on the pitch.
"That is the way the club is when you see youngsters doing well they come through to the first team throughout the years. They have to keep working hard in training, keep listening and keep learning to people giving them the right advice to improve themselves."
United face Partizan Belgrade in the Europa League on Thursday looking to bounce back from their disappointing 1-0 loss to Bournemouth at the weekend.
