
# Mercedes-Benz V-Class Elite to be launched in India on November 7

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:58:46+00:00**

Author: **Aditya Chatterjee  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/mercedes-benz-v-class-elite-to-be-launched-in-india-on-november-7/)

Mercedes-Benz India is all set to launch the V-Class Elite in the country on November 7, which  is based on the updated model available in the international markets. The V-Class Elite does get  design updates and interior enhancement along with a new diesel engine in the international market. However, there is no confirmation if the same will be brought into the country with the new four-cylinder OM 654 diesel engine or continue with the existing setup. Similar to the previous offering, the Mercedes-Benz V-Class Elite will be imported through the CBU route and is expected to be priced around Rs 90 lakh.
In terms of design, the new V-Class gets a broader appearance and an even stronger visual presence thanks to its new front end. This comes with the new bumper design with striking cooling air inlets and a new diamond structure in the radiator grille. The Mercedes star is positioned centrally in the radiator grille and framed by two slats in silver. The updated MPV gets new paint colours in graphite grey metallic and selenite grey metallic expand the spectrum of the well-received black and white tones. Also, there are two new shades of steel blue and hyacinth red metallic. Internationally, the 2019 V-Class is offered with  5-twin-spoke 17-inch light-alloy wheels painted in black as well as 18-inch light-alloy wheels in tremolite grey and 5-twin-spoke design or in black with a high-sheen finish and 5-spoke design.
The cabin too has been updated with new air vents in a more sporty turbine look as well as new dials in the instrument cluster. The new upholstery and equipment colour tartufo nappa leather makes a modern and elegant statement. With Lugano leather and nappa leather, each available in black and silk beige. A total of six different upholsteries in light and dark colours is available. Merc mentions, "The optionally available luxury seats for the first rear row are a real treat and, just like in the S-Class, they offer a fully reclining function, back massage and climatisation"
In India, the V 220d trim comes with a 2.1-litre turbocharged diesel mated to a seven-speed automatic. The engine comes with BlueEfficiency, assisting in its BS6 compliance. Power figures stand at 163PS and 380Nm of torque, which help the MPV cover the 0-100kmph dash in 10.9 seconds, and on to a top speed of 195kmph. The Exclusive variant comes with selective dampers which adapt the suspension to the driving conditions. Read our detailed road test review here.
