
# WhatsApp row likely to boost spread of Telegram and Signal app

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Sindhu Hariharan**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/whatsapp-row-boosts-spread-of-telegram-app/articleshow/71930421.cms?utm_source=contentofinterest&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=cppst)

CHENNAI: With WhatsApp facing heat over breach of user privacy, there is renewed focus on alternatives like Telegram that are gaining users in India.
Though still a long way from WhatsApp’s 40 crore monthly users here, serial entrepreneur Pavel Durov-founded Telegram is giving the Facebook-owned messenger app a tough fight with an over 60% rise in monthly active users in the past nine months.
Telegram’s monthly active users count (on Android) in India at almost 3 crore in September 2019 from 1.8 crore in December 2018. Further, from a penetration rate of just 2% in June 2017, almost 12% of Telegram’s global user base is in India as of September 2019. The rate of new installs too have tripled in 2019 — app intelligence firm SimilarWeb recorded around 91 lakh new installs of Telegram in India in September compared to 36 lakh installs in January.
Another alternative is US-based Signal. Though open-source and more secure, it still remains a niche proposition in India with average monthly active users in 2019 at around 70,000, even as it has the strong support of privacy advocates such as Edward Snowden.
Cybersecurity specialists TOI spoke to say both Telegram and Signal are definitely more secure messaging platforms. However, WhatsApp’s current spyware scandal may not really dent its user base given its scale, they add.
“The USP of Telegram is what happens in Telegram stays in Telegram. This is a contrast to WhatsApp, which has always ranked low in the trust factor thanks to its Facebook connection,” Rahul Tyagi, co-founder of cybersecurity enterprise Lucideus, said. Telegram’s encryption protocol ‘MTProto’ helps completely scramble and mask messages while in transit, and Signal’s encryptions too virtually hides all of the metadata, he adds.
Chennai-based entrepreneur Vijay Anand, who has been on Telegram and Signal for almost two years now, says his WhatsApp use is restricted and he has noticed increased adoption of Telegram among his circles. “WhatsApp was never considered secure and there were always specific groups of people like journalists, government officials, etc who were sceptical of it,” he says.
Tech investor and long-term Signal user Ajeet Khurana says you don’t have to be a whistleblower to consider these apps, and he wanted to be in complete control of his private conversations. “Though growing, the current demographic is restricted to niche users focused on privacy and security in India.”“We live in times when nothing is 100% secure or without trade-offs,” adds Lucideus’ Tyagi. He noted that Telegram’s ‘secret chats’ feature, which lets messages disappear from devices after a set amount of time, has unfortunately also attracted use by extremists.
NGO Internet Freedom Foundation believes with growing conversation around privacy, Telegram and Signal’s base is bound to increase, especially in professional environments.
