
# South Lanarkshire residents set to be charged to park outside their own homes

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:53:13+00:00**

Author: **Rutherglen Reformer, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/rutherglen-reformer/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/south-lanarkshire-residents-set-charged-20825421)

Plans to charge residents for parking outside their own homes have moved a step closer.
South Lanarkshire Council’s roads safety forum has endorsed recommendations to introduce a £10 charge to issue permits in residents’ parking permit zones (RPPZs).
The recommendations will now be put to the community and enterprise resources committee for final approval, when a decision is also expected on whether an RPPZ should be created around Cambuslang train station .
The local authority revealed earlier this year that it would consult locals on whether or not parking should be restricted on residential streets immediately around the station, where householders have previously raised concerns.
South Lanarkshire engineering manager Colin Park told the roads safety forum last Wednesday: “The paper before you today provides a summary of the work undertaken in relation to the review of the current RPPZ policy and the proposed way forward.
“The view of the forum was that RPPZs were an effective management approach to assist in minimising the impact on residents in areas of competing parking demand.
“RPPZs should be seen as an additional approach that officers can use to complement existing approaches.”
Councillors previously agreed to the principle of charging in order to cover the cost of issuing permits and council officers have recommended the option of a flat £10 per permit scheme.
Currently, up to four free permits are issued per household in each RPPZ , with around 6900 issued to residents and businesses at a cost of almost £50,000.
After the council’s recent climate change declaration, Rutherglen Central and North councillor Janine Calikes was concerned that allowing four permits per household could send the wrong message.
She said the council was “not addressing the issue” and that people may have to “justify if they need more than two”.
Mr Park said that residents “took advantage” of the current system and that households “didn’t have four cars each”.
He also suggested that future schemes could see free permits issued for electric or hybrid vehicles and a sliding scale could be used for diesel and petrol cars.
It is estimated that a charge could reduce the number of permits issued by one third.
Rutherglen South councillor Robert Brown raised the issue of enforcement and was concerned that the council could have a “credibility issue” if current struggles with enforcement at evenings and weekends continued after charging is introduced.
The forum had also previously enquired about using the surplus from a permit charge to cover the cost of additional parking attendants, however a £10 charge would only generate £50,000 and more expensive options may not be accepted as “reasonable” by residents.
