
# Apple has record sales of Mac in India

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:25:57+00:00**

Author: **Shilpa Phadnis**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/apple-has-record-sales-of-mac-in-india/articleshow/71847131.cms)

BENGALURU: Apple’s back-to-school promotion appears to be paying off in India. The company's CFO Luca Maestri said it achieved record business in India in the last quarter, buoyed by sales of its Mac computers.
“We generated an all-time revenue record for Mac in the US, and in India, and a fourth quarter revenue record in Japan. More than half of the customers purchasing Macs during the quarter were new to Mac and the active installed base of Macs again reached a new all-time high,” Maestri said in the fourth quarter earnings call on Wednesday.
At a country level, Apple established new records in the quarter in many major developed and emerging markets, including the US, Canada, Germany, France, Korea, Singapore, Brazil, India, Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam.
“In the beginning of July, Apple announced special discount not only for school students, but also for school /college staff. Prices of MacBook Pro and MacBook Air reduced / discounted up to Rs 30,000,” said Satyajit Sinha, research analyst with Counterpoint Research.
Apple reduced the price of MacBook Air to Rs 92,704 and MacBook Pro to Rs 1.1 lakh. "College students love the Mac — it’s the notebook they rely on from the dorm room to the classroom, and the No. 1 choice among higher education students,” said Tom Boger, Apple’s senior director of Mac product marketing, in a statement in July. Students buying MacBook Air and MacBook Pro got a free pair of Beats wireless headphone.
Navkendar Singh, research director in research firm IDC, said that Apple has benefitted from the premium laptop segment expanding in India. "Ïndia is still not a multi-device market and the concentration is largely towards smartphones. When Indian customers consider upgrades, they would buy premium laptops in the $700 plus price range,” he said. Singh said the demand for wireless headphones and smart watches have also seen increased demand in India.
Apple sells 1 lakh laptops in a quarter in India, and 65% is MacBook Air, according to industry sources.
However, Apple India’s revenue in the full year 2018-19 dropped 10% to Rs 10,548 crore, compared to the year before. Its net profit dropped to Rs 262 crore, from Rs 896 crore in the same period.
