
# Liverpool's training ground secrets fuelling Premier League title charge

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:09:20+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpools-training-ground-secrets-fuelling-20786449)

Liverpool are leaving no stone unturned in their quest for Premier League glory.
The Merseyside club has undergone an impressive transformation in recent seasons, with boss Jurgen Klopp masterminding on-field success.
Much has been made of the assistance of sporting director Michael Edwards, who has been pivotal in the identification and recruitment of several key players who are now at the crux of the Reds' squad.
Yet since Klopp's arrival, the German has also overseen a vast overhaul of the club's medical and sports science departments, aimed at harnessing marginal gains to maximum effect.
As reported by the Times' Paul Joyce, during Klopp's reign, Liverpool have appointed a number of staff in crucial positions: Andreas Kornmayer, the head of fitness and conditioning; Mona Nemmer, head of nutrition; Philipp Jacobsen, medical rehabilitation and performance manager; and Christopher Rohrbeck; the first-team physio.
Each staff member contributes greatly to the preparation and recovery of Liverpool's squad for upcoming and recent fixtures.
For instance, with Liverpool's hectic schedule, nutrition is paramount to fuelling players with the right foods to go about their business.
Liverpool's players would previously have cold sandwiches after matches, or even head out for a Nando's when the main stand was under re-construction.
But Nemmer now informs the club kitchens what should be on the menus for the players.
The eating areas are busy with informational posters and messages detailing the value of consuming the correct food groups like proteins and carbohydrates.
Now there is even an add-on to the home dressing room at Anfield filled with pasta and rice stations where players can stock up after games, and even take food home.
This sort of detail is just the tip of the iceberg.
Rest has become an important facet of the Klopp regime, and he trusts his players to recover the right way in their own time by giving them a day off after matches.
A normal routine would see players receive a 45-minute massage, along with light exercise and gym work, ranging from core work to jogging round the pitch or time on the bike, or in the swimming pool.
With most players having access to this kind of equipment at home, the club's physio team now tend to go round to see each player individually and provide the massage.
Players are also increasingly inclined to take up one-on-one fitness sessions from Kornmayer and his team.
And as Klopp makes full use of his squad during busy periods, he also splits them in two dependant on who has been involved in each fixture.
Those that played against Tottenham on Sunday were given Monday off, while the players included in the Carabao Cup fixture with Arsenal on Wednesday were allowed Thursday to recover.
Both sets of players join up on Friday ahead of Saturday's trip to Aston Villa.
The flexibility of the training programme is vital, in particular for players embarking on international duty, who struggle to find time for a break during the season.
And you have to say, so far, it's working.
