
# Bonfire Night chaos across UK as fireworks flung at police and fire crews

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:12:26+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/bonfire-night-chaos-across-uk-20822134)

Police and firefighters were pelted with fireworks and rival groups fired rockets at each other as Bonfire Night celebrations descended into chaos.
Shocking scenes across Britain saw fireworks used as weapons in violent clashes.
Several arrests were made in Leeds, where yobs attacked police by firing missiles.
And an Asda car park in Manchester resembled a "war zone" as shoppers fled for their lives in as thugs launched fireworks at cars.
In Wrexham, emergency services were also targeted, with police chiefs warning that lives were being put at risk.
And two men were arrested in Edinburgh on suspicion of supplying fireworks to youths after missiles were aimed at police.
Frightened residents contacted police in Leeds after seeing missiles being thrown around and bins being set alight at around 9pm.
When officers arrived, they were targeted with fireworks.
West Yorkshire Police say a number of people have been arrested and investigations are currently ongoing to identify all those involved.
No-one was reported to have been injured in the clash but police vehicles were damaged.
West Yorkshire Police Chief Superintendent Damien Miller said: “We made it clear from the outset that any instances of disorder or antisocial behaviour would not be tolerated and we were able to quickly respond.
“Those individuals that engage in such behaviour are within the minority and do not represent the wider community.”
Describing the chaos in Manchester, a witness told the Manchester Evening News : "I felt like I was in a warzone.
"Everyone was fleeing for their lives whilst trying to shop.
"A group of 20 were shooting fireworks at each other, including rockets."
The same evening Greater Manchester Fire & Rescue Service tweeted: "We thought the bin fires were disappointing but now our crews are being attacked
"There's a group of around 20 young people launching fireworks at our firefighters who are working hard to keep you safe
"Attacks like these are completely unacceptable #BonfireNight"
North Wales Police said groups of yobs had launched fireworks at emergency service workers in Wrexham, North Wales Live reports .
A spokesman said: A spokesman said: "We have received reports that youths in  Wrexham  are throwing fireworks at our colleagues from  North Wales Fire and Rescue Service .
"Please do not endanger lives with such mindless acts.
"Our officers will deal robustly with anyone seen acting in this way."
Following a similar incident in Edinburgh, police posted pictures of rockets on Twitter, writing: "As part of Operation Moonbeam & proactive policing in Edinburgh this evening & following an incident involving fireworks being aimed at police, two men have been arrested for providing fireworks to youths.
"Their van was seized & they will be reported to the Procurator Fiscal."
In St Helens a 17-year-old was stabbed by an attacker brandishing a "huge knife" at a fireworks display.
A witness told the Liverpool Echo her four-year-old son was traumatised by the incident.
She said: "My four-year-old is absolutely traumatised.
"He's asking me 'why did the naughty boys have a knife' and he's asking if 'the naughty boys with the knife know where we live.'
"He told me he's trying to be brave but said he wished he'd given 'the naughty boy a punch'."
