
# Emmerdale fans suspect double pregnancy twist for Moira and Kerry after Cain discovery

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:10:37+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/emmerdale-fans-suspect-double-pregnancy-20836024)

Emmerdale viewers are expecting a double baby twist is on the horizon, after Kerry's one-night stand with Cain Dingle was exposed to daughter Amy, and Cain's wife Moira.
Cain got drunk and slept with the grandmother of his son Kyle in retaliation to his own heartache.
Last month saw him discover wife Moira had been having an affair with farmhand Nate Robinson, who then turned out to be his secret son.
Nate has been trying to make amends ever since over his bid for revenge against dad Cain, not realising until recent scenes that he didn't even know he existed.
Moira also wanted to make things up to Cain, who is determined they're over for good.
 
But in the latest episode of the ITV soap, Kyle's mother Amy was repulsed to find out Cain and her mum Kerry had slept together.
She ended up storming out after issuing her mother some home truths.
Now, with both Moira and Kerry having had flings in recent weeks viewers are predicting one of them or even both of them will fall pregnant.
This is soap land after all, and how else to make a dramatic affair even more dramatic than a baby bombshell.
Viewers think Kerry will discover she is pregnant with Cain's child.
Not only that, but viewers are wondering if Moira will also uncover her own pregnancy with husband Cain's son Nate.
One viewer put: "I reckon Kerry and Moira will both end up pregnant ..."
Another said: "Yea Kerry is gonna get pregnant."
A third tweeted: "I’ve got a feeling Moira is pregnant - this Nate story is going to drag on for ages and I think there will be a paternity mystery."

        Emmerdale airs weeknights at 7pm on ITV, with an extra episode at 8pm on Thursdays.
      
