
# Woman found guilty after mailing white powder to Susan Collins following Kavanaugh vote

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:06:54+00:00**

Author: **Madison Dibble**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/woman-found-guilty-after-mailing-white-powder-to-susan-collins-following-kavanaugh-vote)

A jury in Maine found a woman guilty of sending threatening letters to Republican Maine Sen. Susan Collins after she voted to confirm Justice Brett Kavanaugh.
Suzanne Muscara, 37, was found guilty of sending a threatening letter to Collins’s home that was filled with white powder and a note that said, “AnthRAX!!! HA HA HA!!!”
Muscara’s letter was intercepted by FBI agents who had been screening Collins’s mail after a letter sent the week prior had also contained a threatening substance.
Muscara claimed she didn’t think anyone would read the letter and thought it was a harmless joke.
“I didn’t want anything to happen,” she said when questioned by the FBI. “I just thought it was funny. I thought cops were, like, sifting through her mail. I didn’t expect anyone significant would read it.”
Beyond the threatening note, Muscara had drawn a stick person with its tongue out and the letter ‘X’ for eyes. The letter was addressed to the senator’s current home with a prior home listed as the return address.
She also denied that she knew who Collins was or that she had made one of the deciding votes to confirm Kavanaugh after his controversial nomination process.
Muscara was identified as the culprit after her fingerprint was matched to the one on file after a 2013 arrest. The sender from the original letter is still unknown.
Muscara has yet to be sentenced, but she faces up to 10 years in prison and a fine of $250,000.
