
# Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp instructed to drop average Mohamed Salah

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:16:29+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-boss-jurgen-klopp-instructed-20813650)

Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has been urged to drop Mohamed Salah for Tuesday night’s Champions League clash against Genk.
The Reds can take one step closer to the last-16 stage by beating the Group E whipping boys, but Klopp has hinted he could rotate his squad to cope with their demanding fixture list, which includes Sunday's six-pointer against Manchester City .
Former Arsenal star and Sky Sports pundit Charlie Nicholas believes Salah is one player that should be given a breather after an “average” performance in Saturday’s last-gasp win at Aston Villa.
The Egyptian was substituted midway through the second half at Villa Park as he and Liverpool struggled for fluency.
“I watched the Liverpool game at the weekend,” Nicholas told Sky Sports . “It was a cracking game and end-to-end with drama too.
“Liverpool are not at their best. People might suggest that once they get going, they will be ruthless, but they are getting away with it currently.
“The Napoli and Manchester United matches were reality checks, but they could have been two or three down by the time they rescued things at Aston Villa.
“Liverpool have a huge amount of games coming up. Mohamed Salah was really average at the weekend, as was Roberto Firmino, so Jurgen Klopp may leave a couple out and change it up.
“The full-backs will stay the same and you have to leave Sadio Mane in, but Fabinho could also come back in.
“It is normally Firmino who he rests, but I would leave him in with Mane and leave Salah out. He may not like it but it needs to happen.
“Divock Origi and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain will come in and I think it will be a fairly comfortable night nevertheless for Liverpool.”
Liverpool secured a 4-1 victory in last month’s reverse fixture in Belgium.
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain (2), Sadio Mane and Salah all got on the scoresheet.
