
# Why ‘Billionaire’ Real Estate Mogul Harry Macklowe Is Not Really A Billionaire

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chase Peterson-Withorn**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/chasewithorn/2019/11/02/why-billionaire-real-estate-mogul-harry-macklowe-is-not-really-a-billionaire/)

In 2007, Harry Macklowe owned Manhattan prime real estate, including the General Motors Building on the edge of Central Park and the iconic, Steve Jobs-designed glass cube Apple store out front. He had just acquired seven more New York City skyscrapers in a $7 billion mega-deal. He also had a mountain of debt tall enough to make Donald Trump blush.The financial crisis soon brought Macklowe’s empire down, forcing him to sell off many of his real estate holdings to cover his loans. His net worth nose-dived, and Macklowe—who Forbes had estimated to be worth $2 billion in 2007—fell off The Forbes 400 list in 2008. He never made it back.
Now, with Macklowe back in the news thanks to a bitter divorce, people are throwing the b-word around again. He sure looks like a billionaire—with a $23.5 million yacht, a $72 million apartment in Manhattan’s famed Plaza hotel and, of course, a “billion-dollar art collection.”
But not quite. Court filings lay the Macklowes’ assets bare, and they’re rich—really rich—but not billionaires.
The New York Supreme Court found that the 82-year-old developer and his now ex-wife, Linda, had personal real estate worth $100 million, cash and investment accounts worth $90 million, interests in commercial property worth $83 million and other assets totaling $17 million. The court pegged Harry’s right to receive a cut of sales at a handful of Manhattan properties he helped develop, including the 432 Park Avenue skyscraper, at $15 million. Subtract nearly $70 million in bank debt and you’re left with some $235 million.
Then there’s the art collection. The court valued 101 of the pieces at a total of $90 million, including $50 million for Andy Warhol’s “Nine Marilyns.” It could not determine the value of 62 other works, including pieces from Picasso, Koons and Giacometti. The two sides’ appraisers pegged the value of those works between about $575 million and $740 million.
Add it all up and the couple was likely worth between $900 million and $1.1 billion—before the divorce. The court split everything roughly in half, leaving Harry with between $450 million and $550 million. Linda—who was a receptionist in 1959 when she married Harry, then an ad salesman decades from amassing great wealth—got about the same.
Harry got the yacht, cars and his portfolio of commercial real estate. Linda got $4 million in jewelry, silver and books, plus the massive Plaza apartment and $40 million worth of art. The couple was ordered to sell the rest of their collection and split the proceeds. The court did not assess the value of Harry’s interest in the Park Lane Hotel, which overlooks Central Park, but the couple is splitting that down the middle too.
So, in all, Harry’s “billion-dollar” art collection was more like $830 million, at best. But his ex-wife is getting half of that, plus half of the ex-couple’s remaining $235 million of holdings, leaving Harry worth about half a billion. Not bad, but not enough to make Forbes’ billionaires list.
Not that he’s sweating it. Earlier this year, he reportedly celebrated his new marriage by plastering 42-foot-tall portraits of him and his new wife on the facade of 432 Park Avenue, where the court allowed him to keep his financial interest.
