
# Verstappen predicts where he thinks he'll finish in Brazil next week

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:21:00+00:00**

Author: **Nicolás Quarles van Ufford**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49668/verstappen-predicts-where-he-thinks-he-ll-finish-in-brazil.html)


        On the back of a good performance at the United States Grand Prix, in which he finished third, Aston Martin Red Bull Racing star Max Verstappen is aiming for a repeat of that result at next week's Brazilian Grand Prix.
      
Last season, Verstappen was well on his way to win the race at Interlagos until the famous collision with Esteban Ocon took place, which cost the Dutchman the win as the opportunistic Lewis Hamilton went on to take the flag. Verstappen was absolutely furious after the race and shoved his old rival Ocon in the paddock.
A year later, the 22-year-old Verstappen doesn't think he'll be challenging for the win in Sao Paulo, as he explained at a recent public appearance for sponsor Exact.
“I think we have a good chance in Brazil," the seven-time Grand Prix winner said.
"Last year in the race we were very competitive. We should’ve won if it hadn’t been for a backmarker," he referred to the Ocon incident.

        "Nevertheless, I’m looking forward to returning. After a few difficult weekends, things are better and I hope to fight for a podium in Brazil.”
      
The United States Grand Prix was the first race since Russia without any drama, with the Japanese and Mexican Grands Prix being ruined by contact during the race.
