
# Ronaldo Unhappy With Substitution, Sarri Explains His Reaction

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/cristiano-ronaldo-unhappy-with-substitution-maurizio-sarri-explains-his-reaction/666939)

After Cristiano Ronaldo appeared upset at being taken off as Juventus were still chasing a winner in their UEFA Champions League tie on Wednesday night, manager Maurizio Sarri addressed the Portuguese superstar's reaction.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see some images of Ronaldo in action on Wednesday!
        
      
With the score at 1-1, supporters were surprised to see the former Real Madrid man come off in the 82nd minute against Lokomotiv Moscow, especially as he did not look to happy about the change.
As he left the field, Ronaldo appeared to gesture angrily towards Sarri, holding up two fingers as he exchanged words with the former Chelsea manager.
Douglas Costa, who had come on after 70 minutes for Sami Khedira, rescued the three points when he linked up brilliantly with Gonzalo Higuain in injury time following an excellent solo run from deep.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
Juventus' 2-1 win over Lokomotiv secured qualification from the group stage, but with Ronaldo being taken out of the game prematurely, Sarri was bombarded with questions about his star man afterwards.
The Italian manager explained that the 34-year-old was having issues with one of his knees, and that he did not want to risk damaging it any further.
"Ronaldo was angry because he's not doing very well, he's had a knee problem for a few days and the adductor is easily fatigued," Sarri told Sky Sports Italia.
"Already, at the end of the first half, he was nervous because of the adductor, I saw him in difficulty in a sprint and I did not want to risk it."

        
          9 Stars Who Were Stripped Of The Captain's Armband
        
      
Ronaldo almost got on to the scoresheet in the first half, after striking a free-kick at goal from distance in the fourth minute. Lokomotiv goalkeeper Guilherme failed to hold on to the ball as it slowly crept towards the goal line, before Aaron Ramsey poked it into the back of the net.
