
# Naked ambition: Triumph Street Triple RS launch review

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:27:03+00:00**

Author: **Geoff Hill, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/geoff-hill/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/motoring/naked-ambition-triumph-street-triple-20832832)

These days, most bikes are good and some are great, but virtually none are perfect for all occasions.
For a road trip across America, for example, it’s got to be a Harley or an Indian. For a rough, tough round the world trip, it’s got to be an adventure bike with at least some off-road capability. And to keep you in touch with your inner urban hipster dudeness, it’s got to be retro.
Having said all that, the Triumph Street Triple RS is about as close as you can get to a bike which is all things to all men, women and callow youths – perfect for everything from commuting to a weekend blast with your mates to a flat-out track day.
The previous version was a superb bike anyway, evidenced by the fact that Triumph sold a whopping 90,000 of them. But when the design team at Hinckley sat down to improve on it, four little words were etched into their noggins like acid on steel – light, fast, agile and stylish.
The results are obvious even walking up to it, with a more aggressive look which, from the front, makes it look like an angry wasp and exquisite attention to detail such as the hand-painted red pinstripe around the wheel.
Climb on board and it’s surprisingly comfortable even for the taller motorcycling gentleman, tilting you forward ever so slightly so that your hands rest lightly on the bars and leaving you free to admire the lovely TFT dash which is a fabulous combination of beauty and brains, giving you the information you need to know at a glance.
You can change the appearance to suit and, if you plunge into shade, it switches to night mode and stays there for a bit having a dither. It also connects to your phone for navigation, calls or music.
Just as satisfying are the bar-end mirrors. I do love bar-end mirrors.
Start up and the new more free-flowing exhaust fills the air with a delicious growl. Ride off and it’s immediately obvious that it’s the lightest bike in its class, at a piffling 179kg fully fuelled.
Scalpel-like handling is a Triumph trademark, and it reaches its pinnacle here, with the bike so light and perfectly balanced that it only takes the merest shifting of weight and the lightest of touches on the wide bars to send you carving effortlessly through bends and powering down the next straight.
And powering is the word – with power and torque up 9% in the mid range, progress is hilariously swift – and seamless thanks to a slick gearbox and a quickshifter which is a work of genius, combined with an autoblipper on downshifts and a slipper clutch to stop the back wheel locking when changing down hard.
The Brembo brakes, with two huge front discs, are as brutal and linear as acceleration, although the rear needs a firm push for trailing into downhill corners.
Mind you, most of the faster riders on the launch in southern Spain aren’t even aware that bikes have rear brakes.
I had one interesting moment when I forgot how slippery Spanish white lines are and rode over one in the middle of a fast corner. The back end stepped elegantly out of line and, even as I reduced the power, the traction control stepped it elegantly back in again. Impressive.
After a morning on road, it was time to switch to the sinuous Cartagena track for the afternoon and unleash the full potential of an engine which was originally designed for Moto2 racing.
Of the five riding modes – rain, rode, sport, track and rider programmable – I’d been in road, and brilliant though that had been, switching into sport, then track, was like unleashing the hounds of Hades.
Although the sort which come up and lean against your leg with a big soppy grin rather than the sort which maul you to death.
There’s so much mid-range torque that just for a laugh I rode one entire lap in third gear – and the bike just lapped it up. As it were.
Even better, the price is a very tasty £10,300, about a grand lower than I was expecting.
It is, in short, the best naked sports bike in the world, and there are only two things I could find wrong with it – it wouldn’t be great for an off-road round-the-world trip, and it didn’t cure my tennis elbow.
The engineers at Triumph have promised to look into the latter for the next version, hopefully before Wimbledon.
Geoff’s RST leathers supplied through Phillip McCallen Motorcycles phillipmccallen.com
Shark Evo-One 2 helmet from nevis.uk.com

        The Facts
      
Engine: 765cc inline triple
Power: 121bhp @ 11,750rpm
Torque: 58 lb ft @ 9,350rpm
Colours: Black, silver
Price: £10,300

        GoCompare Motorbike Insurance
      
