
# Speaker's campaign aide pleads not guilty at his arraignment

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:54:03+00:00**

Author: **EndPlay**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/rhode-island/speakers-campaign-aide-pleads-not-guilty-at-his-arraignment/1004073292?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

WARWICK, R.I. (AP) - A campaign aide to the state House speaker pleaded not guilty on Friday to charges of money laundering and making a prohibited campaign contribution.
Jeff Britt's attorney entered not guilty pleas on his behalf during a brief arraignment in Superior Court in Warwick, according to The Providence Journal .
Authorities allege Britt funded a $1,000 contribution made through a third party to defeated Republican primary candidate Shawna Lawton, for a mailer endorsing Democratic House Speaker Nicholas Mattiello instead of her party's nominee in 2016.
Britt, 51, was released on $10,000 personal recognizance and told he'd be excused from some future court appearances since he lives in Palm Beach, Florida. He referred reporters' questions to his attorney, Robert Corrente. Corrente, a former U.S. attorney, said Britt was used by the Mattiello campaign as a "fall guy."
Mattiello, who exited the courthouse moments later, told reporters, "I know nothing about it." Mattiello, an attorney, said he was at the courthouse for work.
Mattiello beat Republican opponent Steven Frias by just 85 votes in his Cranston district in 2016. The state Republican Party filed a complaint over the mailer, alleging Lawton didn't properly disclose who funded it and claiming Lawton and Mattiello illegally coordinated through Britt.
The elections board dismissed contempt proceedings against Britt last year but referred the case to the attorney general.
According to the indictment, Lawton deposited the $1,000 check into her campaign account, along with another $1,000 check delivered by Britt, then gave Britt a check for $2,150 that was used to pay for the mailer.
The money laundering charge is a felony, while making a prohibited campaign contribution is a misdemeanor.
___
Information from: The Providence Journal, http://www.providencejournal.com
