
# Nest Hub Max bundles start at $239, Lenovo’s M10 tablet is $179, more in today’s best deals

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:29:51+00:00**

Author: **Trevor Daugherty**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/06/nest-hub-max-deals/)

Nest Hub Max bundles highlight today’s best deals, alongside Lenovo tablets, and Motorola Android smartphones. You’ll find all that and more in the latest 9to5Toys Lunch Break.
BuyDig is currently offering a selection of Google/Nest Hub Max bundles with various other Google/Nest products from $239. Our favorite pick would be the Nest Hub Max with Google Home for $239 in both Chalk and Charcoal. Separately, the Nest Hub Max is $229 and Google Home is an additional $99, bringing your total savings here to nearly $90. The Nest Hub Max brings the features of the original Nest Hub to life in an all-new way with a larger design, built-in camera, and more. You can learn more in our hands-on review. Head below for even more bundles.
Amazon offers the Lenovo Smart Tab M10 32GB Android Tablet with Alexa Dock for $179. Normally selling for $250, just like you’ll find at Best Buy, that saves you over 28%, comes within cents of our previous mention, and is the third-best offer we’ve seen all-time. Featuring a 10.1-inch screen, Lenovo’s Smart Tab M10 pairs with a charging dock in order to convert it into an Alexa hub. And if the 32GB of built-in storage isn’t enough, you’ll be able to leverage an up to 256GB microSD card for more. Plus, its display is surrounded by dual front-facing Dolby Atmos speakers for rocking out to your favorite tunes.
B&H currently offers the unlocked Motorola Moto Z3 Play 64GB Android Smartphone bundled with a three-month SIM card kit and case for $230. Usually selling for $500, when you throw in the service plan value and accessory, you’re looking at an overall $580 value and a 60% savings. Today’s offer is $30 under the Amazon all-time low and the best we’ve seen. Those who can live with less storage can grab the 32GB model for $150.
Featuring a six-inch AMOLED display, Moto Z3 Play sports 12 and 5MP dual rear cameras alongside expandable microSD storage. You’ll also be able to choose between unlocking the handset via a fingerprint sensor or with facial recognition.
Amazon is currently offering the C by GE Smart Motion-Sensing Wi-Fi Dimmer Switch with Occupancy Sensor for $51. Typically selling for $75, it just dropped to $60, and is now down the extra $9 to a new Amazon all-time low. GE’s in-wall light switch pairs with your smartphone as well as an Alexa or Assistant-enabled speaker over Wi-Fi, meaning you don’t need an additional hub. It features a built-in motion sensor which can automatically turn the bulbs on or off based on presence as well as a light sensor for additional automations. Learn more in our announcement coverage. Find more deals from $27.
Anker’s official eBay store is taking 20% off a selection of its smartphone accessories and more. One standout is its PowerHouse 400Wh 120000mAh Portable Rechargeable Generator for $400. That’s $100 off the going rate found at retailers like Amazon and is among the best offers we have tracked. This beast sports four PowerIQ fast-charging USB ports, a 110V AC outlet, and a 12V car socket. Despite its compact and easy-to-carry design, Anker PowerHouse can charge everything from an iPhone to a mini refrigerator. Check out our hands-on review to learn more. Find more deals right here.

        
          Subscribe to the 9to5Toys YouTube Channel for all of the latest videos, reviews, and more!
        
      

        Hands-on with the beautiful Razer Blade Stealth 13 Mercury White [Video]
      

        Nixplay Smart Photo Frame Review: Elegant and easy-to-use [Video]
      
