
# Derek McInnes makes Celtic and Rangers admission as provides Aberdeen injury update

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:37:15+00:00**

Author: **Scott Burns, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/scott-burns/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/derek-mcinnes-makes-celtic-rangers-20813478)

Derek McInnes believes his Aberdeen side have sent out a serious signal they can be best of the rest.
The Dons boss accepts it will now be extremely difficult to dislodge Celtic and Rangers from the top two positions but knows everything below is up for grabs.
Aberdeen are a spot behind third-placed Motherwell and McInnes believes his side have shown with their win at Fir Park and weekend victory over Kilmarnock they can be best Scotland’s third force.
McInnes said: “We can’t ignore the Celtic game but we have beaten the two teams around us, Motherwell and Kilmarnock, 3-0 and won at Hamilton which is normally a difficult venue for us.
“We’re a decent side. We’re a good bit off Celtic and Rangers at the minute but we are capable of winning games in this league and hopefully we can go on a winning run.”
Aberdeen had been Celtic’s closest rivals but Rangers and Kilmarnock pushed past them last season.
Del wants his side to make it three wins on the spin when they head to Dingwall to take on Ross County this weekend and knows it would be the ideal way to go into the break.
McInnes said: “It won’t be easy at Ross County.
“We had a good win here but it is normally a bit more difficult on the road although we go in with confidence and some good performances.
“If we can go into the next break with nine points we still have a lot to do to get that, it will give us a lot of satisfaction after the Celtic game.
“The players have done extremely well to win both games with two clean sheets and we’ve also scored plenty of goals. It’s just a start for us and hopefully we can go and get our third win in a row against County and we go into the international break feeling a bit better about ourselves.”
Aberdeen’s injuries woes are also starting to finally clear.
Craig Bryson missed the weekend win over Killie with an ankle twinge but should be okay for the Highland trip, while Ash Taylor is also back in full training. The big defender has been out since he tore his hamstring in the early Europa League tie away to Chikhura Sachkhere.
McInnes said: “Craig was touch and go for Kilmarnock but we decided not to risk him. Ash is also back training which is good. He’s been out for a long time and we want to make sure he is right.”
The Dons players trained at their new Cormack Park training complex on Friday ahead of the Kilmarnock game and will do the same again before they head to County. The team will officially move in during the international break and McInnes reckons it will be a godsend to his team.
He said: “Cormack Park is a huge step forward for the club. It is a brilliant facility for us.
“The players trained there for the first time on Friday and that was the first time they really got to see it.
“We will train again there on Friday because we haven’t moved in full-time yet.
“Our academy teams have already started but we will move in the following weeks. It was good to see the players get their first sense of it and seeing them enjoy the whole environment is fantastic for the professional side.
“For the whole region and development of our players and coaches it’s a godsend.
“It’s what we should have had. We’ve been way behind others in terms of facilities. That’s been well documented because umpteen managers before me also had the same complaint and the lack of facilities.
“Not only have we dealt with that but we also have a facility we can be quite rightly proud of and I couldn’t be more pleased with it.”
 
