
# Andre Gomes sends first message to fans after undergoing surgery on horror ankle injury

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:59:15+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/andre-gomes-sends-first-message-20827465)

Everton midfielder Andre Gomes has spoken for the first time since suffering a horrific ankle break.
The Portugal international had surgery on Monday on the fracture dislocation of his right ankle that he suffered during the second half of Sunday's 1-1 draw with Tottenham following a challenge from Son Heung-min.
Gomes fell awkwardly after being tackled from behind by Son, who was subsequently shown a red card - although that decision was overturned by the Football Association on Tuesday.
The Korean forward was distraught when he saw the extent of the damage to Gomes and a number of other players were visibly shocked and upset.
Now Gomes, the former Barcelona midfielder who sealed his permanent move to Everton in the summer, has taken to Instagram to send a video message.
In the video, which was captioned "Thank you for your unconditional support", he said: "Hi everyone. As you already know everything went well. I'm already at home with my family.
"I would like to thank you all for the support, messages and the positive enegry. Thank you."
His message comes a day after he was discharged from hospital, with the midfielder now facing a long road to recovery.
A Twitter message from Everton on Tuesday read: "Following a successful operation yesterday, Andre Gomes has now been discharged from hospital and will continue his rehabilitation under the care of our medical team."
A statement from Everton on Monday said the operation had gone "extremely well" and that the 26-year-old was expected to make a full recovery.
Gomes is likely to be sidelined for between six months and a year.
Everton manager Marco Silva had previously that the club would give Gomes and his family all the support they needed.
"He is seriously injured but I am 100% sure Andre will become stronger as a football player and as a man because he is a fantastic lad, a fantastic professional," he added.
