
# Wolves are plotting this double January transfer raid - reports

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/wolves-transfer-news-grant-davies-17194205)

Wolverhampton Wanderers are monitoring Karlan Grant and Ben Davies ahead of the January transfer window, according to reports.
Huddersfield Town striker Grant and Preston North End defender Ben Davies have both been stand-out performers for their respective sides in the Championship this season.
Grant, 22, has netted nine goals in 15 games for the Terriers who dispensed with the services of Jan Siewert in August before appointing Danny Cowley as manager.
According to the Sun, Wolves are keeping close tabs on his performances ahead of a potential approach when the window re-opens.
 
26-year-old Davies has been an ever-present in defence for Preston, who have stormed to the top of the table under Alex Neil.
The Express report that Wolves are preparing a £10m bid for him in January having scouted him on several occasions recently.
Nuno Espirito Santo will be without Willy Boly for an extended period after the centre-back had surgery for a fractured fibula.
 
Wolves chairman Jeff Shi spoke about the upcoming window in a recent interview. Asked whether Fosun are willing to dig deep, he told wolves.co.uk: “Of course. We are always ready to invest. Don’t worry about it. If we need to strengthen the squad of course we have the capacity to do that in January.
“The philosophy of the club is to do the right deal. We don’t want to do something wrong and spend some money on a player who never plays well. You can see some examples at other clubs so I hope we can avoid that.”
