
# Next-generation Mahindra XUV500 SUV spotted testing with new details

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:25:18+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/next-generation-mahindra-xuv500-suv-spotted-testing-with-new-details/)

The next generation of the Mahindra XUV500 SUV is expected to be unveiled next year and a new spy video on the internet show that the new SUV could come with quite a few segment-first exterior features, given that it will go up against current favourites, the Kia Seltos and MG Hector.
The video shows that Mahindra has taken a more mellow design direction with the new XUV500. There seems to a more restrained body sculpting with more flat surfaces and fewer curves and cuts, even as the SUV seems to have grown in size. The stance seems to have changed quite a bit too, with the SUV now having lost its top-heavy look. Some of the last car's classic touches remain though like the kink in the window line after the C-pillar and a large grille with body-coloured inserts up-front. A notable exterior feature in these pictures seems to be motorised flush door-handles. The rear windscreen is also seemingly more raked with a boot lid that incorporates a cleaner, sculpted look. We expect the interior to be completely revamped too with a cleaner layout and better space management.
The new XUV500 is expected to be powered by a new 2.0-litre motor that Mahindra is developing for the BSVI norms. This is expected to bring more refinement, efficiency and higher outputs. This SUV is also an important cog in the Mahindra-Ford JV. The XUV500 will also spawn a similarly sized Ford SUV for India and other developing markets with unique styling and dynamic characteristics.
