
# American Exporters, Not Just Importers, Are Hurting From The Trump Trade Wars

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Warren Shoulberg**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/warrenshoulberg/2019/11/06/american-exporters-not-just-importers-are-hurting-from-the-trump-trade-wars/)

The fall-out from the Trump trade war with China continues to takes its toll on American businesses.With yet another U.S. company citing a decline in its sales in China  — Ethan Allen, the big furniture retailer with stores there – Chinese consumers saying they have no intention of shopping American-made products this holiday season and the trade deficit climbing, the costs of the tariff war continue to mount.
Much has been written and said about the impact on U.S. companies who import product from China, unable to fix their costs or plan how higher prices will reduce their sales here. These remain very hard facts for American companies whose spirits rise and fall on each and every rumor and speculative report on a potential resolution to the situation.
Less well known is what the tariff wars are doing to American exporters, many of whom have been counting on China as their next major area for growth. As the Chinese middle-class – estimated to be larger than the entire population of the U.S. – grows and flexes its spending muscles, American companies have been working to build their places in the Chinese marketplace.
But new numbers and surveys tell a different story. Newly released trade reports show that for the first nine months of 2019, the U.S. trade deficit increased by nearly 5%. And even though September’s numbers were more encouraging they still showed exports declining just under 1% according to the Commerce Department statistics. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development this week called the U.S.-China trade war "a lose-lose" scenario for the global economy. 
It was certainly a loss for Ethan Allen, which had been one of the more aggressive companies establishing a retail footprint in China. In reporting its quarterly numbers this week, the company said net sales in China dropped by almost half, a whopping 49.4%.
“The tariffs are still there,” said CEO Farooq Kathwari on the earnings call, although he did add the company expects things to eventually level off in China
Chinese consumers may have different thoughts on buying American. A new study by AlixPartners surveyed 2000 adult Chinese on their buying plans for the upcoming Singles Day, a promotional shopping event created by Alibaba that is now reputed to be the single biggest buying day in the world, with $30 billion in sales last year. And the results have to be frightening for American companies trying to sell products in China.
“As much as 78% of Chinese consumers,” according to the report said they would avoid buying US-labeled products for the event. The reason cited most often was “patriotism.”
“Chinese consumers … prefer local brands, and the recent rise in pro-China feeling has only pushed this further,” said AlixPartners’s director Jason Ong in Shanghai. 
Interestingly enough, Chinese consumer said they would have no hesitancy buying goods from other overseas companies, expecting 30% of their purchases to be made in non-Chinese products.
For American companies trying to do business there, you could call it the ultimate Chinese take-out.
