
# Arsenal respond to claims Jose Mourinho 'dined' with club chief Raul Sanllehi

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:34:55+00:00**

Author: **James Whaling, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/james-whaling/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-respond-claims-jose-mourinho-20802090)

Arsenal have refuted claims Jose Mourinho 'dined' with club chief Raul Sanllehi amid growing speculation over the future of Unai Emery.
The Gunners dropped yet more points in front of their home fans on Saturday as they surrendered a 1-0 lead to only draw with Wolves at the Emirates.
It marked a third game in succession without tasting victory following the defeat on penalties by Liverpool in the Carabao Cup in a crazy game which finished 5-5 after 90 minutes and a 2-2 draw at home to Crystal Palace .
Arsenal could end the weekend six points adrift of the top four and are already 14 points off the title pace having won just four of their opening 11 fixtures.
Media reports on Sunday morning suggested Mourinho had recently met with Sanllehi with the self-styled Special One being touted as a potential successor to Emery.
But, according to Goal, Arsenal insist the reported meeting never took place - and that Mourinho and Sanllehi have in fact not met for a number of years.
When asked after the Wolves game if he thought his job was under threat, Emery said: "I am very demanding myself and I feel my responsibility to work every time to come back with a better result in the next matches.
On the match itself, the Spaniard added: "It’s disappointing. I think the players tried and we scored the first goal but we needed a second for more confidence.
"Wolves are consistent in playing matches like they did today and they did that again. It was an equal match and maybe we deserved more.
"I am frustrated because we are dropping points at home like we did last year. We can improve that balance defensively.
"But the key was to have more clear chances to take the result for us. The players feel the responsibility to win and when we draw they are sad. I think they understand me."
