
# Fury, Warnings Over Sweden’s Failure to Banish Dangerous Islamists for 'Humanitarian Reasons'

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:40:32+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/europe/201911051077227037-fury-warnings-over-swedens-failure-to-banish-dangerous-islamists-for-humanitarian-reasons/)


        One of the Islamist preachers allowed to walk free despite a previous expulsion decision has been identified as a key figure in Sweden's extremist environment and is known for hailing Daesh* and advocating segregation.
      
A total of six hardcore Islamists of immigrant background previously labelled a “security threat” and slated for expulsion from Sweden have been released, prompting strong reactions.
The reason for the six men, who have been in the custody of Sweden's Security Police (Säpo) since spring, to remain in Sweden despite being classified as highly dangerous is that they reportedly risk persecution in their respective home countries, such as Iraq and Egypt, the newspaper Expressenreported.
The designated Islamists have hereby been set free “in anticipation of a change in conditions in their home countries”. While their release implies they are free to continue spreading their teachings, they are expected to be monitored by Säpo.
Expressen described them as “a speckled group” representing the Salafist underground, united in their affirmation of violent Islamism.
53-year-old Iraqi-born Abo Raad, who was previously identified as the leading figure in Sweden's radical Islamic environment, is known for hailing Daesh's military successes in Iraq and maintaining a tax-financed webpage that among other things advocates segregation, calling on Muslims to limit their contact with non-Muslims. His son was sentenced for death threats to the editor-in-chief of the local newspaper Gefle Dagblad for its investigative publications.
As Raad went back to Gävle Mosque, Swedish national broadcaster SVT ran a piece titled “Hug Party”, in which Raad was described as a “rock star”. The report sparked strong reactions and was later altered.
