
# Watch Video: Janhvi Kapoor asks the paparazzi to turn off the cameras while she helped an underprivileged kid

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:40:50+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/watch-video-janhvi-kapoor-asks-the-paparazzi-to-turn-off-the-cameras-while-she-helped-an-underprivileged-kid/articleshow/71952164.cms)

Janhvi Kapoor is one of those Bollywood actresses who is down to earth and has no attitude whatsoever. The young starlet, who made her debut in Bollywood opposite Ishaan Khatter in 'Dhadak' has come a long way in her career as she has managed to bag some mega-budget films.
Recently, a video of the diva asking the paparazzi to turn off the cameras while she helped an underprivileged kid has gone viral on the internet and fans just can't stop praising the diva.
In the video, you can see Janhvi being followed to her car by an underprivileged kid asking for money but before helping her, the 22-year-old actress can be heard saying "Please ek second ke liye camera off kar dijiye, bahut ajeeb lagta hai ye haar baar. (Please turn off the camera for one second. It feels weird every time.)"
This isn't the first time that Janhvi has helped an underprivileged kid as earlier the diva was captured giving packets of biscuits to a kid who wished her 'Happy Diwali' while asking for money to buy food.
Meanwhile, on the work front, Janhvi will soon be seen playing the role of a pilot in Gunjan Saxena biopic. Apart from this film, she also has 'RoohiAfza', 'Dostana 2' and 'Takht' in her kitty.
