
# Series victory will be big boost for us: Mahmudullah

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:09:45+00:00**

Author: **Sanjay Chakhaiyar**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/bangladesh-in-india/series-victory-will-be-big-boost-for-us-mahmudullah/articleshow/71948963.cms?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=TOIDesktop)

RAJKOT: Bangladesh skipper Mahmudullah Riyad is a happy man. His team is eyeing an opportunity to win a T20 International series against India after having registered their first-ever victory over the hosts in the T20I format last Sunday.
"It's obviously a great opportunity for us as we all are feeling very energetic," a beaming Mahmudullah said here on Wednesday. "A series victory will be a big boost for Bangladesh cricket and to achieve that we will all have to play good and positive cricket. Our side has to be on the top right from the beginning. India are a formidable outfit at home and across the world.
"We have a great opportunity to go in for another victory. From the start we have talked about our approach. If we lose or win, it doesn't matter but our approach and attitude has to be correct. We are all desperately waiting for tomorrow's match."
Mahmudullah thinks Rajkot is a 170-plus wicket for the side batting first. "India will be looking to come back strongly. T20 is such that it's important to make the right decision at the right time and adaptability is crucial. At the moment we will try to stick to our winning combination."
