
# Pelletier, Tawiyaka lose appeals on home invasion case

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:11:20+00:00**

Author: **Heather Polischuk**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/local-news/pelletier-tawiyaka-lose-appeals-on-home-invasion-case)

In tossing out the appeals of two men found guilty of committing a violent home invasion, the province’s highest court determined the trial judge committed no error in convicting the pair.
Forrest Duane Pelletier and Darren James Tawiyaka were convicted in July 2017 of break, enter and commit aggravated assault and two counts of break, enter and commit common assault. Pelletier received a total sentence of seven years, but remand credit left him with four years, three weeks. Tawiyaka received a 6½-year prison term with five years remaining after remand credit.
Both appealed their convictions, while Pelletier also sought to have his sentence reduced in the event the Saskatchewan Court of Appeal opted to dismiss the conviction appeals.
In a unanimous decision handed down earlier this month, the court dismissed the appeals.
The case involved a Nov. 6, 2015 incident in which the two men, along with others, entered the home of a former high-ranking member of the Native Syndicate who wanted out of the gang. Intended to be his “de-boarding” from the gang, the subsequent assault left the man badly beaten and bloody. What was more, it was carried out in front of his family, two of whom were also victims of assault — one a 10-year-old girl who was left terrified after watching her father’s beating.
Pelletier appealed on several grounds, including a claim trial judge Justice Lian Schwann was wrong in finding one key witness credible; that an unfair trial and miscarriage of justice resulted when the judge didn’t properly deal with that witness’s reluctance or refusal to answer certain questions; and that the sentence was demonstrably unfit.
Both men’s appeals converged on two further grounds: that the judge was wrong in finding a second key witness credible and that the verdicts were therefore unreasonable, unsupported by the evidence or a miscarriage of justice.
In the decision written by Justice Ralph Ottenbreit (and made unanimous by Justices Neal Caldwell and Jacelyn Ryan-Froslie), the appeal court found no merit to the claims regarding the judge’s handling of the first witness. In terms of the woman’s demeanour on the stand, the court found it was the manner of Pelletier’s defence lawyer’s cross-examination that “contributed to, if not goaded her into, near contemptuous behaviour on the witness stand.”
The court further found that despite the witness’s refusal to answer a particular question, that area — one in which defence alleged collusion with police — was still able to be adequately explored by defence. Ottenbreit added the record shows no evidence of Schwann not dealing properly with the witness.
“I am satisfied, looking at the record as a whole, that the trial judge did nothing that made the trial unfair or impaired Mr. Pelletier’s right to make full answer and defence,” Ottenbreit wrote.
In terms of the credibility of the two witnesses, the appeal court found Schwann properly considered the more negative or contradictory aspects of the witnesses’ testimony before concluding their evidence on the crucial points was credible.
The court went on to rule against claims the verdicts were unreasonable.

        hpolischuk@postmedia.com
      

        twitter.com/LPHeatherP
      
