
# Amazon aims for reshaped Seattle City Council, following PAC donation

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:45:28+00:00**

Author: **Dan Springer**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/amazon-seattle-city-council-election-day-pac-donation)

SEATTLE – It’s Election Day, and here in Seattle, all eyes are on... Amazon?
The online retailer, which is headquartered in the Emerald City, has jumped in the middle of seven City Council races in a way that will test the company’s political might in a city that has been drifting to the left for years. Amazon donated $1.5 million to CASE [Civic Alliance for a Sound Economy], a political action committee sponsored by the Seattle Chamber of Commerce. The PAC has been focused on ousting nearly all the council members up for reelection in favor of more centrist candidates. Seven of the council’s nine seats are up for grabs.
In a statement, Amazon said, “We believe it is critical that our hometown has a City Council that is focused on pragmatic solutions to our shared challenges.”
The political activism was new to Amazon, but not entirely surprising given recent votes at City Hall. In 2017, the Council passed a $275-per-employee head tax that was specifically targeting Amazon with its roughly 50,000 Seattle employees. The proposal passed without a single no vote. Its aim was to raise nearly $50 million per year for homeless services. Amazon would have paid nearly $14 million annually. The company immediately threatened to stop the construction of two downtown office towers if the head tax was not repealed. Eventually, the council caved and repealed the tax, but the damage was done.
Socialist councilmember Kshama Sawant, who had championed the head tax, got personal, calling Amazon founder Jeff Bezos the “enemy” last year. And, she has not stopped blasting Bezos and Amazon since. At a rally last week at Amazon’s headquarters, Sawant yelled, “We are absolutely opposed to the brazen attempt by Amazon and Jeff Bezos and the billionaire class in their attempt to straight-up carry out a hostile corporate takeover of City Hall.”
