
# 15 Interior Design Trends That Are Neither Useful Nor Cozy

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/creativity-home/15-interior-design-trends-that-are-neither-useful-nor-cozy-794671/)

Interior design is a very interesting profession. But when going after the new trends, you should remember that that new apartment that can easily top the charts of the most good-looking places, still needs to be convenient to live in.
We at Bright Side decided to ask Saint Petersburg designer, Alesya Nestyak, about which popular design decisions we should give up because they are impractical.
You might think that this part of the interior design makes the place look cooler. But in fact, it reduces the space, it makes the place more inconvenient and it can’t be used to cook or prep.
Open shelves are a problem for many housewives. And the worst-case scenario is if they are in the kitchen. Something that looks nice in pictures, turns into a real nightmare in reality. And, of course, if you don’t cook and you only need the kitchen to heat up food in the microwave or boil water in the kettle, shelves are okay.
Using tile made of stone is a trend. They are used in kitchens, bathrooms, halls, and even living rooms and other places. Sometimes, there is so much stone that the place resembles a museum, rather than a home.
Corner couches that have been shown in so many rooms in advertisements and on TV are named this way for a reason. They are a good idea only in the case where they occupy a free corner. In all other situations, this couch will only take up your free space.
Very light walls — like white, ivory, and cream have been trendy for many years. They are great for brutal minimalists, but those who want something cozier might start to feel uncomfortable and try to solve their issue by placing a lot of paintings and photos on the walls. And this is where the trouble begins, because some people don’t know when to stop.
Things that are all the same color may look like overkill and make you feel like you’re living in a dollhouse, which might be very difficult. Anything brought home from the real world will not only look weird, but it will scream that it’s from a different galaxy.
Trendy magazines have finally succeeded in making us believe that curtains are an important part of the interior. If you choose to have them they should be long. They can be really beautiful, they make the window more elegant, and they make the place feel more spacious — it even seems like it becomes easier to breathe in there. But make sure that the curtains are not too long. Think about how you will clean them or if a child or your animal gets entangled in the curtains.
Vintage, wabi-sabi, and shabby chic are styles. But don’t confuse these popular styles with short-term trends. Having things with a history in your home is something that will always be chic, but decorative chaos is very temporary. It will go out of style and you’ll be left with a lot of useless stuff.
What’s bad about this interior design feature? When you look at pictures of these boards, they usually have some cool pictures on them, beautifully placed stickers, maybe some cool magnets. Ask yourself: can you maintain your own wall in this shape? Or will it soon be covered with something indistinguishable? And don’t forget: when you are tired of this wall, you can’t just remove it.
The trend for open wiring is pretty cool. There’s no need to open up the walls, and when you install it, there’s no noise or dust. The wires might actually look very modern and you can add very bright and distinctive ideas, like different tape and retro-sockets and switches. Open wires look perfect in high-tech, loft, post-modern, and different variations of provincial styles.
Don’t be disappointed by the words you see carved in wood that seem very trivial. This is the case when a smart detail gets turned into something very mundane. Besides, it’s like a parrot that keeps saying the same thing over and over again. Art should have a message, but it shouldn’t scream it at you.
There is nothing bad about cold colors, but if you live in a climate where the summer is short and you don’t have enough light already, maybe you don’t need more things to depress you?
Despite how prestigious the brand is, appliances and devices made of metal look good only in industrial interiors. When they are placed in rows, they only take away the useful space and make the place look more chaotic. And your whole kitchen may end up looking like a restaurant kitchen.
We have to thank IKEA for the cheap frames that everyone is tired of. Instead of attracting attention and preserving memories, this type of display doesn’t allow you focus on any one thing. Also, these frames collect a lot of dust!
The idea that the wardrobes that don’t actually touch the ceiling create more space is not true. But this free space is great for collecting dust. Especially in the kitchen — where the dust gets really sticky and hard to get rid of.
Our team has already made a couple of notes on which ideas we will have to give up, but we still think that this is not even scratching the surface of a list when it comes to this topic. Maybe you have something to add? What trends seem beautiful in pictures, but totally inconvenient in real life?
