
# Using Clinical Decision Support Tools To Facilitate Decision-Making In Precision Medicine

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Joshua Cohen**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joshuacohen/2019/11/05/using-clinical-decision-support-tools-to-facilitate-decision-making-in-precision-medicine/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

To fulfill its promise precision medicine requires accurate decision support tools, especially to streamline biomarker testing so that the appropriate targeted therapies are prescribed. Even in oncology, where precision medicine has advanced the farthest compared to other therapeutic categories, clinical decision tools are needed to sort through and analyze reams of clinical and molecular data for the purpose of optimizing treatment algorithms.
Elsevier’s ClinicalPath, for example, operates a clinical decision support tool called Via Pathways, designed to inform the appropriate use of biomarker tests and corresponding targeted therapies. According to Dr. Richard Loomis, Chief Informatics Officer, Clinical Solutions at Elsevier, the tool “can reduce unnecessary variation in outcomes.”
A recent study found that only 11.3% of non-small cell lung cancer patients were tested for PD-L1 expression before receiving either nivolumab or pembrolizumab, which may suggest inappropriate use of targeted therapies. There may also be a problem matching tests and targeted therapies. According to recently released precision medicine cancer treatment clinical trial Molecular Analysis for Therapy Choice (MATCH) only 15% of common tumors tested have actionable mutations. And, even pairing a mutation to a drug does not guarantee results. Only 33% of matched patients responded positively to a targeted therapy.
Via Pathways is designed to circumvent these problems by informing physicians which biomarker tests will be useful, that is, have a positive impact on health outcomes. The tool can be used for many indications, and has primarily been utilized in the breast and non-small cell lung cancer space.
ClinicalPath asserts that oncologists using Via Pathways are 60% more likely to prescribe appropriate medicines and other non-pharmaceutical therapies for their patients.
Additionally, the clinical decision tool can help to build up a documented evidence base that serves to inform payer reimbursement decisions, including prior authorization protocols involving biomarker tests.
The Via Pathways tool may soon be augmented by application of Artificial Intelligence (AI). Other companies that focus on clinical decision support tools, such as Tempus, are attempting to harness the power of AI. Tempus claims to be “making precision medicine a reality by gathering and analyzing clinical and molecular data with the power of artificial intelligence-assisted image recognition.”
AI is already known for its potential to streamline drug discovery and development by increasing scientists’ and clinicians’ understanding of biology and guiding drug design. A recently published ICON survey of nearly 350 executives, managers and professionals in the biopharmaceutical and medical device industry revealed that 80% of respondents plan to use, or are already using AI or Big Data approaches to improve R&D performance. Just two years ago, this number was 36% of respondents.
Notably, respondents in the ICON survey ranked the precision medicine approach of using biomarkers to stratify patient populations as one that will most likely to benefit from digitally enabled technologies. Specifically, the ICON report suggests that analysis of Big Data by machine learning offers advantages for assimilation and evaluation of large amounts of medical data. In turn, this can assist in identifying possible label extensions for products, and establish the case for reimbursement of both diagnostic tests and targeted therapies.
Similarly, an Optum survey of 500 U.S. healthcare executives from hospitals, health plans, life sciences organizations, and pharmaceutical and device companies. More than a third of the organizations (36%) will invest in personalizing clinical care recommendations with the use of AI. And this includes drug therapies.
More use of AI and Big Data approaches is poised to have an impact on moving value-based agreements forward, in particular, those that rely on indication-specific drug prices. To demonstrate value by indication manufacturers need to show differentiation, which can be demarcated in certain instances by biomarker testing.
Until now, one of the challenges has been the inability to obtain data and develop tools that could be custom-tailored to the specific sub-population a particular product would serve best. Here, clinical decision tools, AI, and Big Data are changing the landscape.
