
# August's battery-powered View doorbell camera is back on sale

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:09:18+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/august-view-goes-back-sale?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: August
      
August has announced that its battery-operated View doorbell camera is now available for purchase once again. The company had to halt shipments of the device soon after its launch in April due to Wi-Fi connectivity problems. August View is currently available only from the company's website for $229.
August says it has updated the device's software to address those issues and make the View much more reliable than before. In addition to improvements to Wi-Fi connectivity, the August View now boasts better video quality, faster notifications, as well as quicker wake-up time. While the Wi-Fi performance has now been improved significantly, the August View will still not operate if you have a Wi-Fi signal of less than -70dB.
When it announced that it was pausing shipments of the View in April, August allowed its customers who had purchased the doorbell camera to keep it and receive a full refund in exchange for some information on their setup and installation.
The battery-operated August View doorbell camera can be easily installed without having to worry about wires or calling an electrician. With 1440p video, the doorbell camera gives you a clear view of who is at your door. It features 2-way audio as well, allowing you to interact with whoever is at your door. When paired with the August Connect Wi-Fi Bridge, you can even let guests in, no matter where you are. It also offers on-demand live video streaming, motion alerts, and zoomable video.

        Because I'm happppyyyy Are you happy with the Pixel 4? The Pixel 4 has received a lot of criticism since its release, but taking a look through the AC forums, many people are really happy with the phone. What about you?
      

        Unlimited Means Limited AT&T will pay $60 million after hiding data throttling The FTC has settled its case with AT&T for $60 million. AT&T was accused of failing to inform customers of its data throttling practice while marketing plans as "unlimited."
      

        It's Back This new Android Auto app fixes a problem Google created for newer phones Android Auto for phone screens has finally been released for users who lost access to Android Auto after the Android 10 update.
      

        Make your home smarter with Alexa These are the best of the best in smart home devices compatible with Alexa The Amazon Echo can be the nerve center of your home with this collection of the best Alexa-compatible smart home devices.
      
