
# Schiphol Airport locked down after plane hijack button 'pressed by mistake'

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:58:29+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-parts-schiphol-airport-lockdown-20827451)

One of Europe's busiest airports was placed on lock down this evening after a hijack button was pressed 'by mistake'.
Police swarmed to Schiphol Airport this evening after reports of a suspected hijacking during boarding of an Air Europa plane.
The hijacking alert was triggered by a pilot who pressed “send” by accident while explaining to an intern what the transponder codes are for, according to the Dutch newspaper De Telegraaf, citing sources. 
At least 27 passengers were on board when the hijacking alert was reportedly triggered.
Some flights at the airport were grounded, according to a passenger on a plane that had been due to take off this evening.

        
          Have you been affected by this story? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk
        
      
A so-called Grip 3 report was issued by special forces in the Netherlands, reports De Telegraaf.
This happens with 'an incident or serious event with major consequences for the population'.
At 7.43pm (UK time) Dutch special forces said that all the crew and passengers were safely off the aircraft.
The pilot of a departing flight activated a hijacking alert during the boarding process, according to Dutch broadcaster NOS, citing sources with the military police.
Air Europa have since confirmed this was 'a mistake'.
Various gates are closed at the airport and passengers are being kept at a distance.
"There is a suspicious situation and that’s all I can say,” a spokesman for the military police said before the 'mistake' was clear.
Pete Martin wrote on Twitter: "Stuck on a plane just landed at Schiphol.
"We are waiting on the runaway taxing area. Just been told by captain about a serious incident."
The airport is the third biggest in Europe in terms of passenger volume.
The official Twitter account for the airport wrote: "The Royal Netherlands Marechaussee is currently investigating a situation on board of a plane at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol."
Meetings in the Dutch parliament have been suspended.
