
# Xiaomi Mi Note 10 Confirmed: Release Date, Price & Specifications

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:17:00+00:00**

Author: **Marie Black**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/news/mobile-phone/xiaomi-mi-note-10-3777038/)

It's been a while since we've seen a Mi Note launch, but with the Mi Note 10 Xiaomi does not disappoint. This is the world's first 108Mp cameraphone, rocking Samsung's ISOCELL Bright HMX sensor as just one of five lenses on the rear, as well as a massive 5,260mAh two-day battery and fast 30W wired charging. It can reach 58% in 30 minutes.
The Mi Note 10 was unveiled in Madrid, Spain, this morning, following yesterday's Chinese launch of the global variant: Mi CC9 Pro. Also announced today was Redmi Note 8T, an updated Redmi Note 8 with NFC and faster 18W charging.
This is a Snapdragon 730G (octa-core, 8nm) phone, available in Aurora Green, Glacier White, and Midnight Black, with a 6.47in Full-HD+ AMOLED Dot Drop edge-to-edge display. It will run MIUI 11, a custom version of Android 10, and uses an enhanced, significantly thinner in-display optical fingerprint sensor that offers a 10% larger area. But the primary camera is the real highlight.
Samsung's 108Mp, f/1.7 ISOCELL Bright HMX camera sensor has technically already been seen in Mi Mix Alpha, though that phone is not available yet. It is capable of incredible 12032x9024-pixel resolution, which means it can produce billboard-level prints up to 4.24m high.
Most of the images you capture with Mi Note 10 won't actually be this big, since its 1/1.33in large image sensor uses pixel binning to combine four pixels into one, resulting in 27Mp images that hold incredible detail. This can also help in low-light situations, while its 4-axis optical image stabilisation helps to improve clarity.
Mi Note 10 has a penta-lens primary camera, and the other four lenses in this arrangement are also worthy of note. There's a 12Mp 2x telephoto lens with 50mm focal length, 1.4um pixels and dual-phase detection autofocus primed for portraits, while a second 5Mp telephoto lens offers 5x optical-, 50x digital- and 10x hybrid zoom. It also has OIS and an f/2.0 aperture.
The fourth lens in this arrangement is a 20Mp ultra-wide lens, which has a 117-degree field of view to ensure no-one is left out of the shot. Meanwhile, for close-up shots there's a 2Mp macro lens, able to shoot from 1.5cm distance.
Some software features aid photography, with Night Mode 2.0 capturing additional light and combining multiple shots to create one superior image. There's also support for RAW multi-frame noise reduction.
Video credentials are good, too, with Mi Note 10 capable of 4K ultra-wide video, plus 960fps slow-motion - ShootSteady software prevents any choppiness. 
Xiaomi hasn't forgotten about the selfie camera, and this phone's sixth and final camera has a 32Mp AI lens with various beautifying modes.
A Premium Edition of Mi Note 10 swaps this phone's seven-piece lens for an eight-piece lens, and comes with 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage - up from the standard model's 6GB and 128GB respectively.
In Europe the standard Mi Note 10 with 6GB of RAM and 128GB of storage costs €549, which makes it more expensive than the flagship Mi 9 (launching at €499/£549 at this capacity). UK pricing has not been announced, which is not a surprise given that Xiaomi phones are rarely available in the UK immediately after launch, but we imagine it will cost somewhere between £549 and £599.
If you are looking to buy Mi Note 10 in the UK (or even within Europe at a cheaper price) you should look to GearBest, which is offering early-bird discounts that take the phone down to just £392.50 using the code GBMINOTE10. 
Anticipating huge demand, GearBest has now added two new codes that unlock the same low price: GBMINOTE10FB and GBMINOTE10EM.

        Click here to buy Mi Note 10 in Midnight Black, Aurora Green or Glacier White.
      
Read next: Best Xiaomi phones & Best Xiaomi deals
