
# The Great Streaming Space-Time Warp Is Coming

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:14:59+00:00**

Author: **James Poniewozik**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/arts/television/apple-tv-plus-disney-plus.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

This may be TV’s biggest fall ever. It could also be its last.
By “biggest,” I mean as measured by volume. In addition to the usual slate of broadcast premieres — still operating on a back-to-school schedule like half a century ago — and the cable premieres, and the Netflix season drops, two entire new streaming services from Apple and Disney arrive this month with full payloads of new series.
And by “last,” I mean it may be the final curtain for “fall TV” as a concept and a landmark. The more that streaming becomes the default way people watch, the less that the concepts of time on which TV has operated — seasons, schedules, time slots — will matter. And with those customs will change the very culture of America’s essential medium, even if we can’t yet know exactly how.
So many of the ways that we’re used to experiencing TV are artifacts of technology and business. September became TV’s New Year because that was when the new car models came out. TV episodes developed their multi-act structure to make room for commercials. Weekly schedules were set because you had to broadcast shows to everyone at once (a practice we may someday look back upon as a medieval ritual, like baking your bread in the village communal oven).
This television system has changed gradually — cable channels began premiering their marquee shows year-round, for instance — but in general, it has repeated its orbital cycle, like planets revolving around the sun, since the mid 20th-century.
Now, heading straight toward this solar system are two giant Death Stars made of money. (Actually, since the Death Star is now the exclusive intellectual property of Disney, maybe you should think of them as two asteroids, one wearing mouse ears.)
Disney and Apple’s original series are only a tiny chunk of the cosmic shower about to rain down. There’s also the archival content, particularly on Disney Plus, which will have the company’s Scrooge McDuck vault of movies, the Marvel and Star Wars libraries and much more. There are the other streaming services arriving in 2020, from WarnerMedia and NBC Universal, who’ve divvied up Harry Potter and Big Bird and Michael Scott like teams choosing sides for kickball.
In a way, all the syndication and rerun deals may matter more to the new TV universe than the new series. Certainly the price tag for “Friends” suggests that. One of the biggest time-warping effects of the arrival of streaming, after all, is that TV’s past is more immediately and conveniently present than it ever used to be. (At least, unless a given show has no deal with a streaming service, in which case it might as well never have existed.)
The effect of streaming on the culture of TV watching is almost science-fiction-like: Audiences suddenly exist at every point in TV history and no particular moment in TV time. The entire run of “Seinfeld” is as readily accessible as the new season of “BoJack Horseman.” A departed series can become as zeitgeisty as a brand-new one: See the proliferation of GIFs from “The Office” on social media.
To a TV critic — that is, someone who believes that television is the nervous system through which our culture sends signals to itself — this is all exciting and unnerving. On the one hand, there will be more of everything: more old TV, more new TV, more opportunities, at least theoretically, for representation and risk-taking.
On the other hand, big money can be risk-averse. The same economic forces that have turned the movie season into a battle of the franchises may drive streamers to focus on bringing us new versions of old things we’ve already proven we like: “Star Wars” and Marvel series on Disney Plus, DC Comics brand extensions on Warner’s HBO Max. If no content ever truly dies in the streaming era, it may also bring us the curse of eternal life: a few immortal megabrands keeping a lock on the culture at the expense of new voices and ideas.
It’s not as if giving the people what they want is a new concept in TV, of course. What’s changing is the means of giving it to them. On the one hand, massive corporations are tying their streaming platforms to their billion-dollar intellectual-property holdings; on the other, the granular viewer data available to streaming algorithms makes them more efficient at serving up good-enough versions of things you loved.
TV may be overrun, not by bad content, but by unexciting competence.
Even if you take the optimistic view, that artists will always find space somewhere to innovate, the discussion around their work will inevitably change. The same-time-next-week TV schedule made the “Did you see it last night?” conversation possible. But on streaming, where you can binge a show in a weekend or sample it over a month, it’s always last night somewhere.
Streaming could have the effect of making TV both more ubiquitous and more submerged in the culture. The show that “everyone” talks about on Monday morning will be replaced by shows that different sectors of the audience start humming about days or weeks after they’re released. (Even the Disney and Apple series that follow a weekly release schedule won’t be tied to particular time slots.)
This kind of experience is nothing new in other art forms, of course; it’s how we’re used to talking about books. But TV’s simultaneous audience of tens of millions, all seeing the same thing at the same time, was what made it a mass, communal phenomenon.
In one sense, as some have argued, streamers like Netflix represent a return of the monoculture that TV was in its earliest days: they’re widely available, they carry a big-tent variety of programming and they’re capable of drawing big (if unverifiable) audiences.
But they’re also the ultimate expression of fragmented culture. Not only do viewers not watch streaming shows at the same time, not only do they choose different shows from the vast libraries, but the services’ data-hungry algorithms serve them each up different menu choices, even different title-screen images for the same shows. Millions of us watch Netflix, yes, but in a way we all watch millions of different, bespoke Netflixes. Streaming has made TV simultaneously bigger and smaller than ever.
The new, dispersed dialogue around TV could be worse or it could be better. It might mean, for instance, more opportunities for great shows to develop organic buzz, the way, say, Netflix series like “Unbelievable” and “I Think You Should Leave” percolated on social media. But either way, one of the last remaining mass-culture experiences we have will dissipate that much more — especially since so much of it will now live behind the tollgates of monthly subscription services.
To some extent, the way streaming changes TV culture will depend on individual consumers’ watching and spending decisions. Maybe the future will divide us into Disney households and Amazon households and Apple households, like religious sects that share a country but each maintain their own customs and mythologies.
Or maybe most of us will sign up for everything and get our new, inexhaustible 21st-century entertainments from a few megabusinesses, kind of like we did in the 20th century. We could even come up with a fancy name for them, like “networks.”
This is one more theory of the unknown quantum universe we about to enter: Even as it expands, it could also contract.

        Continue reading the main story
      
