
# OxygenOS 10.0.5 rolls out for the OnePlus 7T while Open Beta 5 rolls out for the OnePlus 7/7 Pro

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:18:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/oxygenos-10-0-5-rolls-out-for-the-oneplus-7t-while-open-beta-5-rolls-out-for-the-oneplus-7-7-pro/)

Late last month, OnePlus rolled out OxygenOS 10.0.4 for the OnePlus 7T series. Among the usual bug fixes and improvements, the update included a new cloud service feature in the Gallery app, exclusively for Indian users. Now, OnePlus is pushing another update for the OnePlus 7T with some minor tweaks and the Android security patch for October 2019.

        OnePlus 7T XDA Forums || OnePlus 7 XDA Forums || OnePlus 7 Pro XDA Forums
      
As per a recent post on the OnePlus forums, OxygenOS version 10.0.5 is now rolling out for the OnePlus 7T. The update doesn’t pack any significant changes, however, it does address an issue some users were facing with the double-tap to wake gesture on the device. Here’s the official changelog for the OxygenOS 10.0.5 update on the OnePlus 7T:
System
As with all updates from the company, the OxygenOS 10.0.5 OTA is being rolled out in a staged fashion and is expected to reach only a small percentage of users at first. The broader rollout will begin in a few days, once the company ensures that there are no major issues with the update. In case you don’t wish to wait, you can download the update on your device by following the link below.

        
          OxygenOS 10.0.5 Full OTA for the OnePlus 7T (Indian variant only)
        
      
Along with the stable release for the OnePlus 7T, the company is also rolling out OxygenOS Open Beta 5 for the OnePlus 7 and OnePlus 7 Pro. The update brings some minor improvements for the two devices, including optimizations for the touch experience while gaming, a fix for the navigation bar color in dark mode, and new privacy alerts for applications with permissions access to the camera, location, etc. Here’s, the official changelog for the update:
System
Weather
Emergency Rescuer
In case you’re using OxygenOS on the beta channel, you should receive the Open Beta 5 OTA update shortly. However, if you don’t wish to wait, you can download the update on your OnePlus 7/7Pro from the links below.

        
          OxygenOS Open Beta 5 for the OnePlus 7 (Full OTA)
        
      

        
          OxygenOS Open Beta 5 for the OnePlus 7 (Incremental update from Open Beta 4)
        
      

        
          OxygenOS Open Beta 5 for the OnePlus 7 Pro (Full OTA)
        
      

        
          OxygenOS Open Beta 5 for the OnePlus 7 Pro (Incremental update from Open Beta 4)
        
      

        Source: OnePlus, Reddit
      

        Thanks to XDA Senior Member Some_Random_Username for the download links!
      
