
# Grace Millane trial: Tinder date 'searched for porn after killing Brit backpacker'

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:45:07+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/grace-millane-trial-man-accused-20820984)

The alleged killer of British backpacker Grace Millane stuffed her body into a suitcase after strangling her, a court heard.
Ms Millane, 22, from Wickford in Essex, was on a round-the-world trip when she was killed in New Zealand in December.
Her body was found in a forested area near Auckland a week after she was last seen at a hotel in the city centre on December 2.
A 27-year-old man, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, is currently on trial for her murder after pleading not guilty to the offence in January.
His defence claims Ms Millane died during a consensual sex act 'designed to enhance her pleasure', although the prosecution believes the suspect deliberately killed her.
Ms Millane's parents David and Gillian Millane came face-to-face with their daughter's alleged killer in court today.
Prosecutor Robin McCoubrey said Ms Millane met the suspect on the dating site Tinder and visited a number of bars in the central city late on December 1, 2018.
Mr McCoubrey told the court the defendant killed the Brit and then went out to buy a suitcase.
"He contorted Ms Millane's body into that suitcase," Mr McCoubrey said.
The prosecutor added the defendant "didn't seem concerned by the dead body in his apartment" as he travelled to nearby Ponsonby Road and went "on another date" later on December 2.
During that date, the Crown said the defendant told a woman he had previously committed manslaughter during rough sexual intercourse, and had served time in prison.
"He is testing out a version of events," Mr McCoubrey said.
The defendant later hired a professional carpet cleaning machine, which he said was to "clean up a spillage of red wine in his apartment", Mr McCoubrey added.
"Of course, it wasn't. It was most likely another red substance he was cleaning up in his apartment."
Speaking about the night the pair met, the lawyer said security footage showed they were comfortable in each other's company.
He added: "From the footage, you'll see them kissing. Both parties probably anticipated sexual activity."
Mr McCoubrey said the defendant lied to police about what occurred when he was first interviewed, telling them he had simply met Ms Millane "for a drink and then parted company".
But he later told them that the pair had engaged in rough sexual intercourse involving biting and hitting, Mr McCoubrey said.
Afterwards, the defendant allegedly told police he fell asleep in the shower, then woke up and went back to bed.
"'I woke up the next day and saw that she was lying on the floor. I saw that she had blood coming from her nose'," Mr McCoubrey quoted the defendant as saying.
However, the prosecution believes the defendant strangled Ms Millane.
Mr McCoubrey said: "You will have to consider what (the accused) did next.
"If something had gone wrong, or someone fell unconscious and it was an accident, you'd expect someone to call for emergency assistance.
"But (the accused) had plainly gone to some lengths to break any forensic links between him and Ms Millane."
The prosecutor said that in the hours after Ms Millane died, the defendant engaged in a number of internet searches, including for the Waitakere Ranges, where the 22-year-old's body was found.
He also used Google to search for "the hottest fire", he said.
"It's plain that Ms Millane is dead at that point," Mr McCoubrey said.
"What (the defendant) is trying to do is find a place to dispose of her body."
"He wasn't distressed or concerned by her death," Mr McCoubrey said, adding that the defendant then began searching pornographic websites.
The crown alleged that the defendant broke off his internet search to take seven intimate photos of Ms Millane's body.
The defendant then resumed searching pornographic websites, before searching for "large bags near me" and "rigor mortis".
Mr McCoubrey said Ms Millane was found to have "other bruises that were consistent with restraint" on her "upper chest area and upper inner arms".
He added: "An otherwise healthy young woman entered the defendant's apartment and died there.
"It's the Crown's case that strangling someone to death with your hands isn't inadvertent.
"All of the evidence points away from an accident."
The prosecution said the suspect had 'calmly, coldly and methodically' tried to break any link between himself and Grace Millane.
Mr McCoubrey added: "He's covering his tracks."
The lawyer said a central concern was "what his intent was when he had his hands around her neck".
He added: "Only two people know what happened in that apartment.
"One of them can't tell us and the other one hasn't told the truth."
The defendant was contacted by police because he had previously commented on a post on Ms Millane's Facebook page.
He allegedly told police the couple had a drink at a bar then parted company.
"Now when you watch that interview, you'll note that it's a lie," Mr McCoubrey said.
"We know he wasn't asleep in the shower - he was browsing pornographic websites.
The prosecutor added that the lay-out of the defendant's apartment meant "you couldn't simply walk from the shower to the bed without noticing a body on the floor".
"That may give you a clue of his attitude towards Grace Millane's body."
Defence barrister Ian Brookie opened his remarks by saying the couple met and experienced a "perfectly ordinary, casual sexual encounter between a young couple who had met on Tinder".
"They were enjoying each other's company, they got on really well, they went back to his place, they had sex," Mr Brookie added.
"So far this is a very ordinary Saturday night all over the country."
Mr Brookie said the death happened during "an act designed to enhance her sexual pleasure" and with Ms Millane's "knowledge and encouragement".
"Ms Millane died as a result of what they consensually engaged in together," he added.
The defendant wiped tears from his face as Mr Brookie continued: "They were both keen to give it a go, and they did.
"Because of the context in which Ms Millane died, the evidence will need to examine intimate matters... including their respective interests.
"We are not doing this to suggest Ms Millane is to blame - we need to show you why (the defendant) is not (to blame).
"While his actions may have caused her death, he is not to blame.
"This death was an accident."
Evidence from the father of the victim was read to the court.
He said "Gracie" was the youngest of three children and was close with her family.
She had travelled to New Zealand from Peru as part of a year-long trip after finishing university.
Her dad added that she had previously had boyfriends and had exhibited no mental or physical health problems.
The defendant cried and blew his nose loudly as Mr Millane's evidence read to the court.
Detective Evan England then began delivering his evidence, however proceedings were stopped after the defendant informed his counsel he was feeling unwell.
A short recess was taken and the court cleared while the defence team went to speak with the accused.
The defendant appeared pale as he returned to the courtroom and the session continued.
The trial continues.
