
# Police teargas hundreds of Sonko supporters marching to EACC

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:20:27+00:00**

Author: **JEMIMAH MUENI**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/police-teargas-hundreds-of-sonko-supporters-marching-to-eacc/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 5 – Anti-riot police on Tuesday teargassed hundreds of Governor Mike Sonko supporters marching to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) headquarters in Nairobi where the county chief was due for questioning.
      
Sonko was summoned to record a statement after it emerged, he filed a false self-declaration form on March 9, 2017 while seeking the agency’s clearance to contest in the gubernatorial election.
ADVERTISEMENT
The commission’s CEO Twalib Mbarak, through a letter wants Sonko to present himself at the Integrity Center to record a statement which will facilitate investigations.
“The commission pursuant to its constitutional and statutory mandate as set out in the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012 is investigating allegations that you provided false information to the commission in your self-declaration form dated 9 March 2017 submitted to the commission,” Mbarak stated in a notice dated October 28.
If found guilty, Sonko risks a five-year jail term or a Sh5 million fine or both.
Sonko however through his Facebook page described the summons as a witch hunt and stated that he will not be intimidated.
“No amount of witch hunt or intimidation shall stop me from addressing the real issues I’m pursuing for the public,” stated Sonko.
“I have not been shying away from my past which in several occasions I have reiterated that it should not affect or determine my current status and any future ambition in any way,” he added.
This is not the first time Governor has been summoned at the commission. In September he spent close to 8 hours at Integrity Center – EACC headquarters – where he was grilled over garbage collection tenders.
This was after it was revealed that the county government irregularly paid 11 companies contracted to collect garbage but could not submit payment vouchers made to the companies, the list of the 11 firms and contract papers to support the payments.
Post Views: 199
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
