
# Save $100 On The Excellent V-MODA Crossfade M-100 Headphones

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:22:45+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-v-moda-crossfade-m-100-headphones-amazon-save-cheap)

As part of Amazon's Gold Box Deal of the Day today, you can save $100 on the V-MODA Crossfade M-100 headphones.
That brings the price down to just $149. Which still might sound like a lot for a pair of wired headphones, but these are definitely worth that price.
The V-MODA Crossfade M-100 are a really great pair of headphones. These are super comfortable to wear for many hours on end, and also are great for audiophiles. In fact, V-MODA says that these headphones are recommended by over 200 audiophiles. So you know the audio quality here is top-notch.
Advertisement
That's thanks to the dual diaphragm 50mm drivers that are inside this pair of headphones. That provides you with some pretty good bass, as well as some crystal clear mids and highs. Now these do not have a crazy amount of bass like a pair of Beats or Sony Extra Bass headphones might have, but they are still pretty good.
There is also a built-in microphone and controls on the cable that comes with the V-MODA Crossfade M-100. Now remember that these are not wireless, so there's no battery here, and they do need to be plugged into your smartphone. Which means that you're going to need to use that dongle that (might have) come in the box with your phone.
The V-MODA Crossfade M-100 are only going to be on sale today, since it is in Amazon's Gold Box Deal of the Day, meaning that this price is going to end at midnight PST tonight. So you're going to want to grab these before they are gone. V-MODA headphones rarely ever go on sale, so if you've been holding out to pick up a pair, now is definitely the time to do just that.
Advertisement
You can pick up the V-MODA Crossfade M-100 headphones from Amazon right now, by clicking here.

        V-MODA Crossfade M-100 - Amazon - $149
      
