
# Brooks: Cocktails for Critters benefits our furever friends

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:00:31+00:00**

Author: **Bill Brooks, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/business/local-business/brooks-cocktails-for-critters-benefits-our-furever-friends)

Scores of guests gathered at the Telus Convention Centre Oct. 19 to attend the 19th annual Calgary Humane Society’s Cocktails for Critters. Mere metres away, a select group of guests attended the tony VIP opening of Glenbow’s fall 2019 season. Having events so close to each other was a bonus as it was easy to flip back and forth between the two.
Since 1922, the Calgary Humane Society has created tens of thousands of brighter futures for our furry friends. And its signature event, Cocktails for Critters, has raised considerable funds for life-saving veterinary equipment, essential training for the society’s peace officers, and critical dog park renovations, all of which increase safety and fun for shelter dogs and daily care for thousands of animals.
Highlights of this year’s fab fundraiser included: the always popular Rescues on the Runway; signature cocktails; terrific culinary samplings; wine and trip raffles; a silent auction; and a meet and greet with animals. The event raised more than $188,500, which belies the economic challenges we are all facing these days.
Among the hundreds of guests in attendance were: presenting sponsor, Preventous Collaborative Health’s Dr. Rohan Bissoondath and his wife Nalini Bissoondath; Furever Friends Bob and Anne Hobbs; Furever Friends Dr. Larry Marks with family members Lisa, Kat and Maria Marks; k.d. lang and Heather Edwards; society executive director Carrie Fritz; emcees, Soft Rock 97.7 FM’s Jay Donovan and Lynda Parcells; society’s Rae Fehr and his wife Desiree Ellis; distinguished business leader Brian MacNeill and his wife Brenda MacNeill; society past board chair Deanna Steblyk with her husband Pembina Pipeline’s Harvey Steblyk; and others pictured.
