
# What’s in City Press: Ace, Motsoaledi named in murder trial; Champions, Boks on top of the world

Published at: **2019-11-03T07:46:16+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CityPress](https://city-press.news24.com/News/whats-in-city-press-da-vows-to-regroup-ace-motsoaledi-named-in-murder-trial-champions-boks-on-top-of-the-world-20191103)


        Ace, Motsoaledi named in murder trial:
      
In a court case currently playing out in Bloemfontein, a twisted saga of bribery, corruption and murder implicating the two has emerged. Read here

        Zuma goes to court again as he seeks to defend “false, defamatory” tweet:
      
Former President Jacob Zuma has applied for leave to appeal regarding the tweet in which he called former tourism minister Derek Hanekom an “agent of the enemy”.

        Champions, Boks on top of the world:
      
The Springboks beat England 32-12 to lift their third Webb Ellis trophy. Read here

        Making it safe for transgender people:
      
A new set up of white shipping containers in which pertinent health care services are being provided for transgender people opened in Hillbrow. 
Mjay sells his toys to pay debt:
Eyadeni boss owes Sars millions, but insists he has an agreement to pay monthly instalments.

        “They all lied in their statements”:
      
In a twist to the five-year investigation into Bafana Bafana captain Senzo Meyiwa’s murder, it has now emerged that the police will refocus their investigations on the house where he was fatally shot. Read here

        Doctors under fire:
      
High values of private practice litigation force obstetricians and gynaecologists to abandon ship and seek employment elsewhere.

        Cyril must rise to the occasion:
      
Business Unity SA head Sipho Pityana has urged President Cyril Ramaphosa to “rise to the occasion” following the decision by ratings agency Moody’s to downgrade South Africa’s outlook from stable to negative. Read here

        Icasa pushes 5G roll out:
      
Despite leadership reluctance, the communication authority is set to introduce high-speed mobile tech. Read here

        EFF members bemoan increase in ghost branches:
      
Branches in Mpumalanga have expressed unhappiness in the way the province’s leadership has gone about “selecting” delegates for the party’s national conference. Read here

        Bridget Motsepe-Radebe named in Botswana’s R10bn theft:
      
SA businesswoman has been fingered as a co-signatory to at least two accounts holding some of the more than $10bn allegedly stolen form the Botswana government to finance “terrorism”. Read here

        DA vows to regroup, reinforce:
      
After months of rapid disintegration, the party is rallying for a revival which might see it come out stronger and more diverse in its ideologies. Read here

        Professor hits back at UCT for prejudice:
      
After being overlooked for a vacant UCT dean of humanities position, a professor has questioned the university’s selection process as she believes that she is the best candidate for the job.

        Bullets, balls and brandy:
      
A mechanic says his testicles were shattered when he and a burglar were wrestling for possession of a firearm and it suddenly went off. Read here

        Mathabatha suspends malfeasance whistle-blower:
      
Limpopo Premier Stan Mathabatha allegedly personally threatened to discipline an official for raising a red flag against a R585m broadband tender that was wrongfully awarded to a private company.

        The other national team:
      
The Springboks were not the only national team flying the flag this week – so was the SA Junior Culinary Team in Cairo.

        Some kind of waiting game:
      
Women wait with their collected scrap metal for selling in Durban. Trucks that have emptied their cargo and are returning there give their traders a lift.

        It’s legalised but now foreigners are taking over:
      
Dagga growers in the Eastern Cape have accused the government of leaving them not so high but very dry following the ruling to legalise it last year.

        Intensive care:
      
As the impasse between junior medics and the state drags on, Zimbabwe’s paralysed health sector is the biggest casualty.
