
# The ASUS ZenFone 6 beats the big guys to Android 10

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:21:15+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/asus-zenfone-6-gets-android-10-hurry?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
One of the benefits of buying a plucky unlocked phone from a smaller manufacturer is the possibility of receiving the newest software faster, and that's just what ASUS is delivering with the latest ZenFone 6 update. Android Police reports that ASUS is rolling out Android 10 with the latest October 2019 security updates right now. It is possible to force the download by flashing your firmware, but this could bork your phone if you don't know what you're doing.
Android 10 brings gesture controls to the ZenFone 6, as well as improved permission dialogues and more stuff that you can read about here in our big Android 10 round-up! ASUS keeps its software footprint minimal on the user interface, so ZenFone 6 owners should see all of the new Android 10 goodness, including improved themes and the system-wide dark mode.
You can check out our review of the ASUS ZenFone 6 here. The device has a funky design with a flip-over camera setup, and were impressed at the quality ASUS delivers for the relatively low price. If you're looking at other independent phone makers like OnePlus, the ASUS ZenFone is a worthy competitor, but of course the latest OnePlus 7T was the first device to run Android 10 out of the box.
A great phone for selfie-takers who want the latest Android
We didn't expect that one of the most interesting flagship phones of 2019 would come from ASUS, of all companies. We also didn't expect to see Android 10 rolling out to this unique device within 2 months. It's a device with top-tier specs and competitive pricing, and now it has the latest system and security features.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        New patch time Have you downloaded the November 2019 security patch? Google is now rolling out the November 2019 security patch to Pixel devices. Have you gotten your hands on it yet?
      

        That's not good Your Google Home or Amazon Echo can be hacked using laser pointers Researchers have found that it is possible to hack smart speakers, phones, tablets, and video chat devices such as Facebook Portal with the help of “light commands.”
      

        Facebook New Face Facebook's new corporate logo is as boring as they come Facebook has announced a new corporate logo design, as well as a corporate initiative to include the new logo on all of its major app and service properties.
      

        No scratches here Keep your screen safe from scratches with the ZenFone 6 screen protectors It would be a shame if something bad were to happen to your new ASUS ZenFone 6, especially if something happened to your display. These are the best screen protectors that you can get for the ZenFone 6 in 2019.
      
