
# Teen died of 'anaphylactic shock after anti-allergy device failed to work'

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:18:07+00:00**

Author: **Phil Cardy, Martyn Halle, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/phil-cardy/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/teen-died-anaphylactic-shock-after-20796886)

A teenage girl died of suspected anaphylactic shock after her anti-allergy device allegedly failed to work.
Shante Turay-Thomas, 18, may not have known about a fault that was reportedly found in a small number of the Emerade injecting devices three months earlier.
Her grieving mum Emma also claims she had to wait an hour for an ambulance after a mix up.
An inquest starts on Monday into nut allergy victim Shante, who died last September as she was about to start a law degree at Sussex University, in Brighton.
Emma, 46, said: “I hope action will be taken to ensure that no other families have to endure a loss like ours .”
 
Shante suffered a suspected allergic reaction after eating food thought to contain hazelnuts at home in Haringey, north London.
Her mum called 111 as Shante’s condition worsened that night.
She tried to use her Emerade adrenaline auto-injector pen but it allegedly did not work.
Shante’s family claim an ambulance was wrongly sent to her granny’s address in Enfield, six miles away.
When an ambulance arrived at the right address, Shante had been administering CPR for over 15 minutes but she died soon after reaching hospital.
The Emerade fault was found in June 2018 and reportedly involved a needle getting blocked and not delivering adrenaline.
A spokesman for its distributor Bausch and Lomb said it was thought to affect 1.5 per 10,000 devices, adding that no adverse reactions were reported.
Concern over the device was made public this summer when a second fault was reported, with the needle not releasing in an estimated one in 500 devices.
Emerade was not recalled but people who need them are advised to carry two so they have a back up at all times.
London Central and West - which provides 111 help to two million people – said it was also unable to comment ahead of the inquest.
