
# How To Reach U.S. Net Zero Emissions By 2050: Decarbonizing Industry

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Energy Innovation: Policy and Technology**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/energyinnovation/2019/11/04/how-to-reach-us-net-zero-emissions-by-2050-decarbonizing-industry/)

Presidential candidates, state governments, and utilities are promoting “net zero” emissions targets to rapidly reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and preserve a safe climate future by helping to limit global warming to well below 2°C. But few of them are exploring exactly how the U.S. could achieve the ambitious goal of remaking its energy economy.The Paris Agreement targets net zero emissions by 2050. More than 60 countries, including Germany and the United Kingdom, have set net zero by 2050 goals, showing that political momentum can spur climate action – if the policy path forward is clear. 
Energy Innovation previously modeled a scenario to achieve the U.S. Paris Agreement pledge using the peer-reviewed, free, and open-source Energy Policy Simulator (EPS); it now uses the EPS to explore an illustrative policy package to achieve net zero U.S. emissions. By 2050, the net zero pathway abates more than 6 Gt of emissions a year and saves more than 120,000 American lives per year due to reduced particulate pollution.
This article focusing on the industrial sector is part one in a series of four identifying policy combinations that can achieve net zero U.S. GHG emissions by 2050. Other articles in the series cover the electricity, buildings, and transportation sectors. (While emissions reductions from land use and agriculture represent roughly a tenth of those needed to reach net zero emissions, this series does not focus on that sector.)

        Net Zero Emissions: U.S. Industry
      
Reducing industrial emissions is a critical piece of the net zero puzzle. The U.S. industry sector is responsible for 35% of GHG emissions, or 29% if all emissions from generating electricity are grouped into a separate “electricity” sector (Figure 1).
Without policy intervention, industrial emissions are projected to rise from just over 2,000 million metric tons (Mt) of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) per year today to over 2,750 Mt CO2e/yr – more than 35% – by 2050 (Figure 2). The most important contributor to these emissions is the natural gas and petroleum industry, responsible for 40% of direct industrial emissions in 2018. The second-largest contributor is the chemicals and plastics industry (27%). Other major contributors to U.S. industrial emissions are iron and steel (4%), coal mining (4%), and cement/concrete (4%).

        Policies To Decarbonize The Industry Sector
      
Fortunately, smart policies and technologies can decarbonize U.S. industry, as part of an economy-wide transformation that achieves zero net emissions by 2050. Figure 3 depicts industry sector emissions reductions caused by each measure in this illustrative net zero pathway as a colored wedge. Industry sector emissions do not reach zero in 2050, because some residual industry sector emissions are counterbalanced by carbon sequestration in the land use and forestry sector.
Ordered from largest to smallest contribution to cumulative 2018-2050 emissions abatement in a net zero scenario:

        Fuel Use And Residual Emissions
      
Reaching net zero emissions reduces overall industrial fuel use for energy purposes from about 19 quads/yr today to just under 9 quads/yr in 2050, while also transitioning to 100% electricity and hydrogen (Figure 4).
Under the net zero pathway, remaining emissions are industrial process emissions, not energy-related emissions (Figure 5).
The main sources of these residual emissions are CO2 from cement production, methane leaks, and F-gas production and use. Eliminating these emissions may require new low-carbon cement chemistry, replacing concrete with other materials (such as wood), eliminating all methane leaks or phasing out natural gas production, and completing F-gas replacement with safer chemicals.

        Achieving Low-Carbon Industry For Net Zero Emissions
      
The industrial sector is a key partner in efforts to achieve net zero emissions. Manufacturers must produce the advanced materials, clean energy vehicles, and renewable electricity generation equipment that will be the cornerstone of a new energy economy, even as they find innovative ways to reduce their own emissions.
The net zero pathway illustrates a combination of policies and technical measures that can cut industry emissions, helping to achieve a goal of economy-wide, net zero emissions in 2050.
