
# Stanford GSB And Chicago Booth Are #1 MBA Programs Of 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Matt Symonds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/mattsymonds/2019/11/06/stanford-gsb-and-chicago-booth-are-1-mba-programs-of-2019)

Intense rivalry, defiant comebacks and last-minute winners are at the heart of any great sporting drama. From Federer and Nadal to the Red Sox and the Yankees, Tiger Woods winning the Masters for a fifth time or Ali rumbling Foreman in Zaire, and not forgetting Kerri Strug nailing her second Olympic vault on one foot while Michael Jordan made his final shot to win the NBA Finals, the roller coaster of emotion in sport is the stuff of legends.Surely the same can’t be said about business education? While an MBA has the ability to transform lives and change the course of personal history it is hard to imagine the world’s media devoting similar coverage to a theatre of dreams made up of the campuses and classrooms of the world’s leading business schools.
And yet every year, five major news publications produce MBA rankings that pit rivals against each other, and generate results that sometimes seem to defy the odds. In the past week, The Economist and BusinessWeek have published MBA league tables that will spark joy and despair for staff, students and alumni, and raise a few eyebrows at the wild swings both up and down that have taken place from one year to the next.
Old rivalries continue, with the MBA at Stanford GSB outperforming Harvard Business School in the BusinessWeek ranking, and Chicago Booth outshining Wharton in The Economist ranking.
Meanwhile, UVA Darden and USC Marshall must be wondering if they are winners or losers in the rankings game. While Darden climbed four places in BusinessWeek to #5, its highest position in this 31-year old ranking, the MBA program slipped seven places in The Economist ranking to #13. Conversely, USC Marshall climbed ten places to #18 in The Economist while simultaneously dropping nine places to #22 in BusinessWeek.
But the prize for the comeback kid of 2019 has to go to Dartmouth’s Tuck, whose miserable rankings performance of the last 12 months – the MBA lost four places to #12 in The Economist ranking of October 2018, slipped to #19 in the BusinessWeek ranking of November 2018, was #15 in the FT ranking of January 2019, and lost ground to #12 in the US News ranking of March 2019 –no doubt contributed to a 22.5% decline in MBA applications, one of the sharpest drops among the top U.S. business schools in the past year.
Tuck’s scored a last-gasp winner in BusinessWeek, which placed them at #2 in their November 2019 MBA ranking. That’s a startling rise of 17 places, and though double-digit rises and falls are commonplace at the lower end of the rankings tables where school results cluster together it is hard to remember a similar comparable ascension at the top.
Duke Fuqua ranked #1 in BusinessWeek in 2014, but that was due to a much-criticized methodology change that the publication subsequently dropped. Did the fiercely loyal Tuck alumni network decide that enough was enough, and provide an overwhelmingly positive response to the BusinessWeek survey?
With so much volatility and gamesmanship, how can you trust the business school rankings? The best option is to aggregate the results of all five rankings, and for the past nine years the Fortuna Ranking of MBA Rankings has provided the most reliable gauge of school performance. Below are the results for this year's top 10.
You can find the full results of the Fortuna Ranking of MBA Rankings 2019 for US business schools here. By consolidating the results of five distinct ranking methodologies you gain a much clearer picture of how MBA programs compare across a range of measures - ROI, salary, selectivity, diversity, student and recruiter satisfaction, etc – and rein in the wild shifts inherent to each individual league table.
So what are the main takeaways from this year’s results? The headlines belong the Stanford GSB and Chicago Booth, who tie at #1 in the 2019 Ranking of MBA Rankings for U.S. business schools, pushing HBS and Wharton to #3 and #4 respectively.
Stanford GSB not only outperformed Harvard Business School in BusinessWeek (GSB #1 vs HBS #3), but also the FT (GSB #1 vs HBS #2), U.S. News (GSB #2 vs HBS #3) and Forbes (GSB #2 vs HBS #4). Small wonder that Stanford wins the hearts and minds of so many when both schools make an offer to the same MBA applicant.
Chicago Booth retained a lead over Wharton in The Economist ranking (Booth #1 vs Wharton #4 among U.S. schools), but also replaced the Philadelphia school for the top spot in Forbes (Booth #1 vs Wharton #5), and BusinessWeek (Booth #4 vs Wharton #6), with Wharton edging the results in the FT and US News. Chicago Booth is the only school in the top 10 that saw applications increase last year, and based on these results it will be as tough as ever to secure a place in the Chicago MBA for next September.
Berkeley Haas has had a great year, with a string of consistent results that in the overall calculation of results averaged across the five major MBA rankings sees the west coast school move up two places to #6 ahead of MIT Sloan and Columbia Business School. It is perhaps time to reconsider the M7, and make way for an M8.
Cornell joins Darden in a steady climb towards the top, with strong results in Forbes, BusinessWeek and The Economist nudging the school into a tie at #12 with Michigan Ross. Yale SOM and Duke Fuqua, which have both reached the top 10 in the Fortuna Ranking of MBA Rankings in one of the past two years both drift in the other direction in 2019. Neither school should be concerned, as they can both point to top 10 performance among U.S. schools in two of the major rankings, with Yale’s result in The Economist and Duke’s performance in BusinessWeek dragging down their overall position.
In the rest of the top 30, Indiana Kelley, Vanderbilt Owen and Notre Dame Mendoza all climb by two or three places, but the strongest performance is from the Hough Graduate School of Business at the University of Florida’s Warrington College of Business. As recently as 2017, Florida Hough didn’t even rank in many of the major rankings, but this year they raced ahead, ranking #21 in the FT and #23 in The Economist compared to other U.S. schools, and #25 in US News.
In the world of sport this Cinderella business school equates to soccer’s Leicester City in The Premiership, or the Toronto Raptors in the NBA. Time will tell if they can maintain their place in the big league - even harder than making it to the top is staying at the top, as any business school Dean can tell you.
Find the full results of the Fortuna Ranking of MBA Rankings 2019 for U.S. business schools here, with European results to follow in December.
