
# 300 gang members linked to Lyons and Daniel crime clans probed in Drumchapel crackdown

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Norman Silvester, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/norman-silvester/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/crime/300-gang-members-linked-lyons-20798261)

More than 300 violent gang members linked to the Lyons and Daniel crime clans are being probed in a massive new crackdown.
Officers stepped up their war on the rival groups in 2017 following a wave of shootings and stabbings as a turf war for control of the country’s illegal drug trade escalated.
Police Scotland’s multi-million pound Operation Engagement led to six Lyons henchmen being jailed for 104 years in April over five attempted murders.
But a senior police officer who helped head the initiative has revealed a new operation codenamed Bluefield has identified some 300 suspects linked to both gangs in one Glasgow estate.
Inspector Ryan McMurdo said Drumchapel in the north-west of the city has become a hotbed of organised crime which has resulted in Police Scotland targeting the area.
A team of 100 officers put the area into lockdown to combat the growing violence, including shootings and fire attacks, with a series of road blocks on Wednesday October 9.
They stopped 92 cars – including 25 taxi drivers with suspected links to organised crime.
Five people were arrested and drugs including heroin, cannabis, diazepam and etizolam were seized. Two cars were impounded and £2100 in suspected drugs money was taken from one alleged dealer.
Officers also hit suspects’ businesses and raided pubs where they drink.
The number plates of 300 cars were also checked to see if they were stolen or owned by gang members.
They even arrested the mother of one male suspect for unpaid fines and he had to go down to the police station to pay up so she could be released.
Several men were also handed so-called Osman warnings when they were told their lives were at risk.
Insp McMurdo said: “There’s a crossover between Operation Engagement and Operation Bluefield .
“Lots of people involved in Engagement crop up when we deal with Bluefield.
“In particular we’ve been looking at serious and organised crime in Drumchapel.
“Bluefield is a battle over the drugs trade there between two rival factions which we’re looking to disrupt.
“We have well over 300 suspects that we can link to that.
“If you include friends, families and associates, you are talking about hundreds of people who are all making a living out of serious and organised crime in one area.
“We targeted businesses which we know the criminals are running or in the case of licensed premises are known to frequent.”
Insp McMurdo’s team has been responsible for the recovery of a deadly Skorpion submachine gun linked to a Daniel gang member, £350,000 in drugs linked to the Lyons gang and 100 stolen cars worth £1.25 million.
Their job is to disrupt the activities of key criminals, their associates and family members.
They have been given the go-ahead from the Crown Office to charge suspects for even the most minor of offences and not issue them with fixed penalty notices.
Prosecutors have given an undertaking to prosecute all cases where possible.
Insp McMurdo gave one example of a female Daniel family member convicted of pedalling a bicycle carelessly in Possil, Glasgow, and fined.
His team were also involved in providing the security for Steven “Bonzo” Daniel, and another four men who were attacked by Lyons thugs, during a trial at the High Court in Glasgow earlier this year.
 
Daniel was left with horrific facial injuries after his vehicle was ambushed near Glasgow city centre in May 2017.
His car had been fitted with a tracking device, which allowed his attackers to pinpoint his whereabouts.
His wounds were so severe that emergency services who arrived at the scene thought he’d been shot. Daniel gave evidence at the trial of the men accused of the attack but told the jury he was unaware of any bad blood between his family and the Lyons.
Six men were jailed for 104 years in May for attempting to murder Daniel, nephew of the late crime baron Jamie Daniel.
The Lyons gang is bossed by Steven Lyons, who is thought to be based in Dubai.
Insp McMurdo added: “We still regularly visit the main players who aren’t in prison and that are in the country.
“There are also some plans over the coming weeks to do some specific disruptions.
 
“A huge part of what we do is low level, banging on doors and speaking with people. It allows us to help keep track of them and gather information.
“The aim is to impact their day-to-day routine and business. We’re trying to place pressure not just on the main suspects but their friends and families.
“The main aim is to make local people feel safe while putting those involved in serious and organised crime on the back foot.”
Local SNP MSP Bill Kidd said: “The good thing about this disruption operation against organised crime is that it did not disrupt the lives of ordinary people.
“Most people are aware organised crime exists. It can cause real misery in communities like Drumchapel.”
