
# Woman almost falls off Grand Canyon trying to take photo of her mum

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:14:50+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/grand-canyon-woman-fall-fear-20793841)

A woman almost slipped and fell off the edge of the Grand Canyon while trying to take get a good angle for a photo of her mum.
Emily Koford was at the spectacular landmark in Arizona with her mum Erin on October 28 when the terrifying moment occured.
Footage of the incident taken from a fair distance away shows the 20-year-old and her mum on a part of the cliff top without any safety barriers.
Standing a few feet away from her daughter, Erin gestures for her to come back towards her.
The young Austin, Texas woman - who has her back turned to the enormous drop - then takes a big step back while seeming to be looking down at something.
 
Her mother turns away at the very moment Emily takes a smaller step back.
She appears to have misjudged where she is standing, her foot slipping off the ledge and her body toppled backwards.
As she teeters on the edge of a fatal plummet Emily luckily manages to throw herself forward and regain her balance by putting a hand on the floor.
 
Erin spots her daughter's death defying wobble in time to throw her hands up in the air in apparent shock.
She rushes over to Emily and grabs her by the shoulders, shaking her daughter in startled terror.
The mum said she told her daughter at the time: "You just scared me to death, Emily."
 
In a later interview with ABC News the startled parent said Emily had been backing up in an attempt to take a full body photo of her mum.
Speaking of the near fall, Erin said: "My stomach went up into my chest.
"I was scared and angry all at the same time, so I just went up and grabbed her."
Back on solid land and away from sheer drops, Emily feels "very blessed" that she got away with it.
"I definitely will stay near the rails, just be extra careful because people like my mom - I saw how scared she was and there's a lot of people that don't want you to die.," she told ABC 15.
The video was captured by Kevin Fox who started filming so he could show his children an example of "what you don't do".
In 2019 three people have died from falls at the Grand Canyon, according to official National Parks data.
