
# Anushka Sharma’s next to be a romantic film with a twist?

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:06:25+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/anushka-sharmas-next-to-be-a-romantic-film-with-a-twist/articleshow/71941094.cms)

Anushka Sharma is thoroughly enjoying her time up in the Bhutanese mountains with hubby Virat Kohli, and her pictures are proof of the same. After working on a hectic film schedule all of 2018, the actress reportedly took time off this year to enjoy a her personal life to the fullest and jet out on exotic holidays abroad.
While making the most of her free time, it looks like the actress has also been on the look out for some good projects and has found something incredibly exciting.
The actress who has always present the audience with some interesting and challenging film projects, has reportedly finalized a romantic film as her next. Interestingly, it will not be any ordinary story, but one with a twist.
According to reports, this film will be right up Anushka's alley and her trademark style of edgy films. Be it 'PK', 'Pari', 'NH10' or 'Phillauri' a source was quoted saying, "She has wowed everyone with her performance in these edgy films and looks like she is gearing up for one more. So, this romantic film will have its own unique storytelling and present Anushka again in a totally different light.”
It will soon be a year since her last film 'Zero' co-starring Shah Rukh Khan and Katrina Kaif hit theatres. And although there is no confirmation about her next, we can't wait to see what's in store.
