
# Success Of U21 Side Papering Over Cracks That Remain In Irish Underage System

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:15:18+00:00**

Author: **The PA Team**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/football/thepateam/underage-ireland-problems/)


        By Thomas Stafford.
      

        In a year where the FAI and Irish football has made headlines on a constant basis, one significant development has taken place largely under the radar – the inaugural edition of the Under-13 League of Ireland.
      
For the first time ever, national league sides competed at an age group younger than that of the prestigious Under-14 Kennedy Cup. Still ongoing, the league has certainly been a bone of contention. The Under-15 League of Ireland, and now the Under-13 edition, have placed national sides right alongside Irish schoolboy football. Speaking to managers and coaches across the nation offers a clear insight into their lives at the heart of this transition.
From the off, it’s clear that there have undoubtedly been some positives. A lot of those involved make that immediately clear upon conversation. One such manager is Tiarnan Mulvenna, the former Dundalk striker now at the helm of the club’s Under-15 side. In his third season in charge of the club’s team, he is well-accustomed to the League of Ireland Under-15 setup.
“At least the FAI are trying, at least they’re giving the best young players the opportunity to play against each other,” he said.
Similarly, an unnamed U15 coach from the south of the country, who has been involved in the league since its inception in 2017, is well-placed to give a rounded view on the state-of-play.
However, as thoughts turn to flaws within the league, negative anecdotes and feedback become commonplace. Mike Geoghegan is U13 manager at Waterford FC, a side that recently reached a shield semi-final against Finn Harps – a decider played six hours away in Donegal.
“A game like this should be played at a neutral ground,” he said.
The U15 coach from the south of Ireland rattles off a number of issues he has faced. “The league set-up is certainly not improving. It’s almost going backwards,” he said.
He believes that the removal of linesmen at this national level of the game. As such a pivotal part of matches, their absence is being felt heavily.
“This has not only been commented on by almost every coach across the league but also by many referees themselves. U15 League of Ireland is played at a very high standard and referees being on their own can hugely impact the game.”
The Dublin-based U13 coach has also experienced problems with the overall set-up.
“The biggest issue with the structure is the gap between U13 and U15. The FAI recently announced that each U15 squad for next season must have nine players from 2006. This leaves nine players from this Under-13 season that are deemed ‘not strong enough’ to make the step up. Players will lose interest, lose confidence and possibly give up the sport completely.”
The same issue crops up for Geoghegan in Waterford.
Mulvenna too brings up a distinct lack of progress from the football hierarchy,
Issues with the traditional schoolboy clubs and leagues were always likely to occur and that has certainly been the case for the Dublin-based coach, who says that “there is a certain element of Irish football who hate to see change.”
“There is still a reluctance to release players to join the League of Ireland,” the coach said. “Some coaches seem hell-bent on trying to hang onto their players rather than being happy for them to take the next step in their progression as young footballers.
“You look at the decision from the DDSL (Dublin & District Schoolboy League) to move back to school calendar football. We are now in a position whereby DDSL teams will start their season in September and will then begrudgingly lose some of their players to the National League in January/February. Some clubs will replace these lads but others will lose players to teams further up the ladder and have no-one to replace them.”
The coach from the southern region echoes these thoughts.
Speaking to the secretary of one of Dublin’s largest schoolboy clubs describes the scenario from the other side of the glass, and it doesn’t paint a better picture.
“Firstly, I’m largely supportive of the League of Ireland initiative, but it does have its flaws. It’s the first year of U13 League of Ireland football and I would worry that about 50 per cent of current squads will be dropped come Christmas. Some will come back to schoolboy clubs but rejection will mean that some are lost to the game.
He also stated that several coaches in charge of the club’s Under-13s team resigned as “they had enough.”
“We will probably lose most of the remaining Under-13s in January and be unable to complete the season. Any lads that are not offered a place in a League of Ireland side will have no team. The non-concurring seasons are a nightmare. The League of Ireland needs to have the same season as the schoolboy leagues.
Looking at suggestions and ideas for improvement, some promising ideas come forward from coaches at the forefront of the game, ideas that deserve discussion and consideration at the very least. An Under-13 coach from a club in the northern region believes that more involvement from those directly involved is necessary.
“I feel that as coaches in this underage league, our voices aren’t heard. The FAI are happy to make rules and decisions without acknowledging us. Personally I think an U14 league with a maximum of six players from the year below would make far more sense than an Under-13 league. And I work in this league every week. It’s vital to talk to those involved.”
A regional tournament has been suggested, while Dundalk’s Mulvenna is eager to solve the issue of not playing any football throughout the winter.
“People think when you talk out about the league that you’re against it. I just think it can be improved. Simple things can be done to make it better for everyone. We can’t go back to the old way,” Waterford’s Under-13 Manager Mike Geoghegan said.
This is only a small sub-section of the dedicated people involved in youth football across the country. Positive results for Ireland’s Under-21 side may portray a soccer nation excelling in youth development. That is far from the truth and until those involved are considered and engaged with, that will never be the case.
For too long Ireland’s football system has been fragmented and disjointed. The building blocks are being put in place but unless due care is given to the stakeholders involved, we will be back to square one.
