
# Rep. Davidson Sees Place for Blockchain in US Manufacturing Despite Congress’ Concerns

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:06:00+00:00**

Author: **Helen Partz**

Original: [Cointelegraph](https://cointelegraph.com/news/rep-davidson-sees-place-for-blockchain-in-us-manufacturing-despite-congress-concerns)

United States pro-crypto Congressman Warren Davidson (R-OH) has once again called for clear regulations of blockchain industry to maintain U.S. economic dominance.
On Nov. 4, Davidson published a letter in the Wall Street Journal in response to an Oct. 24 report on automation in manufacturing. The congressman urged the U.S. government to encourage innovators to stay in the country. The letter read:
The report to which Davidson was responding focused on concerns that robots and artificial intelligence were taking jobs from U.S. workers. Commenting on manufacturing in the Midwest, it reads: 
Davidson’s letter expressed similar concerns that Americans were letter fears in the face of blockchain innovation prematurely shut down the market.
Davidson — who represents Ohio’s 8th district and is a member of the congressional steel caucus — is optimistic that the improvements crypto technology can bring to manufacturing will outweigh the cons. He told Cointelegraph:
In the letter, Davidson emphasized that a number of industry-related companies are already moving in countries such as Switzerland, seeking a friendly regulatory ecosystem.
While sharing some of his colleagues’ skepticism about Facebook’s proposed Libra project, Davidson claimed that he treats their fear of blockchain and crypto “shortsighted.” According to Davidson, by deterring initiatives in the industry, the U.S. government risks is “surrendering global superiority and sacrificing improvements in quality of living” just in order to preserve the status quo.
In a tweet on Nov. 5, Davidson expressed hope that his colleagues in the House Committee on Financial Services can find a way to fight their fear of blockchain so that the U.S. can “maintain technological and economic dominance.” Urging passage of the Token Taxonomy Act, reintroduced in April 2019, the congressman wrote:
