
# Singer in K-pop boyband BTS investigated after car crash error

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:23:58+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-southkorea-kpop-idUSKBN1XF07E)

SEOUL (Reuters) - A member of South Korean boy band BTS is being investigated by police after admitting he was at fault in a crash between a car he was driving and a taxi, the group’s management said.
Jung Kook, the group’s main vocalist, was driving in central Seoul last week when he hit a taxi due to an “an error on his part,” manager Big Hit Entertainment said on Monday. The 22-year-old immediately admitted violating traffic laws and was questioned by police.
“Both the victim and Jung Kook did not sustain major injuries,” Big Hit said in a statement.
“He made a statement at the police department and reached an amicable settlement with the victim.”
Management for Jung Kook, whose full name is Jeon Jung-kook, apologized to the victim and concerned fans. It did not give further details about the cause of the accident, citing an ongoing investigation, but local media said he violated a traffic signal.
Police officials in the central Seoul district of Yongsan declined to comment, citing internal rules.
The seven-strong BTS has spearheaded a wave of Korean pop music, crowning their success with three No. 1 albums on the Billboard chart in less than a year, a 2019 Grammy nomination and concerts from New York to Saudi Arabia.
The group last week wrapped up a world tour that included 10 cities and saw them perform in front of more than 1 million fans in total.
