
# England legend Brian Moore tells Boris Johnson to f*** off after Rugby World Cup Final message

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:52:50+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/england-legend-brian-moore-tells-20793430?utm_source=facebook.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=mirror_main)

Former England hero Brian Moore was left incensed after Prime Minister Boris Johnson delivered a good luck message to the Red Rose stars ahead of their Rugby World Cup Final.
Eddie Jones' side go head to head with South Africa in a mouthwatering occasion at the International Stadium Yokohama in Japan on Saturday.
Ahead of the clash, Johnson attempted to rally Jones' troops by sending them a good luck message and donning an England rugby jersey.
But Moore, the former Hooker who played 64 times for England, clearly isn't a fan of the PM and took to social media to make clear his opinion.
He simply wrote: "Please f*** off."
 
Moore was responding after Johnson said via a video message: “I think I speak on behalf of millions of people in this country and around the world in wishing the best of luck to England in the World Cup final against South Africa today.
“I watched the match against New Zealand with mounting awe, absolutely incredible passages of play by our team against that awesome All Blacks side and looking at what you can do.
“I absolutely know that you can bring back the William Webb Ellis cup from Japan in the course of the next few hours.
“Go for it England. You’ve got an amazing ability to win.
 
“I’ve never seen a team like it. Come on England, win the World Cup!”
The Queen also sent a message of good luck to the England rugby team as they prepared to take on South Africa in the World Cup final.
England players were praised by the Queen for having "delighted" and "inspired" fans as they battled their way through to the competition's climax.
Millions of rugby fans will be tuning in to watch the match in homes and pubs across the country as it kicks off at at 9am (UK time).
Broadcaster ITV said coverage of England's semi-final clash peaked at 10 million viewers, almost three quarters of the overall TV audience, last weekend.
The British Beer and Pub Association predicted that one million extra pints will be sold throughout Saturday if England are victorious in the match at the International Stadium Yokohama in Japan.
The Duke of Sussex is travelling to the Far East for the game and is expected to personally convey his grandmother's words to the national team in their changing room before kick-off.
In her message, the Queen sent her "very best wishes" to the squad for a "memorable and successful match".
