
# Filipinos blast animated film ‘Elcano and Magellan’ for depicting colonizers as heroes

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:02:33+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Manila**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/manila/lifestyle/filipinos-blast-animated-film-elcano-and-magellan-for-depicting-colonizers-as-heroes/)

Not taking kindly to colonizers being depicted as heroes, Filipinos took to Twitter today to express disgust and extreme disapproval of the upcoming animated film Elcano and Magellan: The First Voyage Around the World, after its local film distributor announced that the Spanish-produced movie will be screening in Philippine cinemas in January 2020.

        Read: Foreign Affairs secretary calls for censorship of ‘Abominable’ over depiction of China’s ‘nine-dash line’
      
The film’s lead characters — Portuguese explorer Ferdinand Magellan and Spanish explorer Juan Sebastian Elcano — set out on their maiden voyage to explore the world and their last stop, or at least Magellan’s last stop, was the Philippines. (Nearly-500-year-old spoiler alert: Magellan died; Elcano ultimately managed to make it back to Spain.)
Quick brush-up on Philippine history: Filipinos don’t like Magellan. Not since the Portuguese explorer claimed to have “discovered” the Philippines on March 16, 1521 on his way to the Spanish Isle of Moluccas searching for spices. Following some back-and-forth with indigenous rulers, a party of troops led by Magellan were met in battle at the Philippine island of Mactan by the native resistance led by Lapu-Lapu, the local chieftain.
Lapu-Lapu’s forces killed Magellan and repelled his attack, and the expedition departed the Philippines shortly thereafter under Elcano’s command. However, Magellan’s “discovery” prompted the Spanish to colonize the Philippines for over three centuries, leading to the exploitation and enslavement of its natives, and the forcible replacement of existing traditions through conversion to Catholicism — plus the introduction of some really sleazy priests (as recorded in Jose Rizal’s Noli Me Tangere).
Back in the present day, Elcano and Magellan‘s teaser trailer, posted by Spanish producers Filmax and Dibulitoon in March, suggests that it may be taking several creative liberties in spinning a kid-friendly historical account. It features Elcano and Magellan approaching Philippine shores, with Elcano appearing to develop a love interest with a female character from the island.
