
# ‘Death Stranding’ Review Round-Up: Here’s What Critics Are Saying About Kojiima Unleashed

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dave Thier**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidthier/2019/11/01/death-stranding-review-round-up-heres-what-critics-are-saying-about-kojiima-unleashed/)

I’ve been waiting to read the Death Stranding reviews almost as eagerly as I’ve been waiting to play Death Stranding. Because this is a game that, by all measure, just doesn’t get made any more: a AAA game with a budget to match, heavily marketed, stacked with Hollywood actors and all the other trappings of a big-budget title. And yet it’s also an auteur driven project of the kind we essentially just don’t see at this scale: a weird idea from a weird guy, without the corporate structure of a publisher like Konami holding it back. Hideo Kojiima had a habit of taking military stealth games and turning them into bizzare metatextual mysteries, and that was when he was inside of Konami. This is something different, and it seems be delivering than that. Death Stranding reviews are actually not quite as all over the place as I thought they would be: it currently sits at an 84 on Metacritic. The highest of those scores are perfect, and there are 13 of those. The lowest, at 35/100, calls it an “irreedeemable piece of garbage”. The consensus is that it’s slow, strange, at times unpleasant, and possessed of bizarre, singular intention. Whether that makes it a masterpiece or an irredeemable piece of garbage is up to you. Here’s what critics are saying. I’ll incluide a bunch of unscored ones down here, because some of them are the best:

        Death Stranding feels like two games in one, designed for seemingly opposite audiences. One is a wholly unique open-world adventure with asynchronous cooperative multiplayer that allows me to feel like I’m part of a community, building a world from scratch. And the other is a long, confusing, deeply strange movie. The former is pulling most of the weight, but they share equal screen time. And, like a steamer trunk full of sperm, it’s impossible to separate the good from the bad. It’s all in the same box. 
      

        Death Stranding is also about throwing grenades made from your own piss and shit at ghosts. It is about hiking alone in the wilderness for hours. It is a tireless grind. It is a commentary on social media and the internet, delivered through the asynchronous interactions players can have with one another as they play. It is breathtaking in scope, consistently intelligent in design, and beautiful to behold. It is a heaping pile of pretentious nonsense. It is a game in which characters drop overwrought interpretations of Kōbō Abe quotes. Its most recurring visual motif is a not-so-subtle gesture towards Thomas Pynchon’s Gravity’s Rainbow. It progresses not with the quiet stroke of a pen but with the pounding crash of a hammer. “I brought you a metaphor,” one of the characters says late in the game. It is stupid, and obvious, and perfect.
      

        Well, Kojima has delivered. On time, surprisingly, but also 100 per cent on brand. The first release from his new studio Kojima Productions and his first non-Metal Gear game since 2003's Boktai, Death Stranding is nothing if not an event. It is at once unmistakable as his work and surpassingly strange. It is grandiose and goofy, liberating and frustrating, thrilling and audaciously dull. It boldly strikes out for new territory even as it gets bogged in the mire of convention. Its preoccupations are nakedly displayed while its plot is borderline incoherent. It's hilariously indulgent of its creator; the production could certainly have used more people who were willing to tell Kojima no. Although perhaps we can be glad they weren't around. If they had been, Death Stranding would be more like other games, and that would be a shame.
      

        Certain landmark games in recent years, like The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and Red Dead Redemption 2, have managed to successfully tread the line between the rigidity of realism and the exhilaration of pure escapism. But much like its stumbling protagonist, Death Stranding just can’t consistently get the balance right despite possessing equally lofty ambitions and countless inventive ideas. There is a fascinating, fleshed-out world of supernatural science fiction to enjoy across its sprawling and spectacular map, so it’s a real shame that it’s all been saddled on a gameplay backbone that struggles to adequately support its weight over the full course of the journey. It’s fitting that Kojima Productions’ latest is so preoccupied with social media inspired praise, because in some ways I did ‘Like’ Death Stranding. I just didn’t ever love it.
      
