
# Marie Louise McConville: All praise for Jenny From The Block who flies the flag for kindness

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Marie Louise McConville**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/lifestyle/2019/11/02/news/marie-louise-mcconville-all-praise-for-jenny-from-the-block-who-flies-the-flag-for-kindness-1752488/)

I heard a wonderful quote this week - ''There are a lot of nice people in the world. If you can't find one, be one".
It's not the first time I have written about the importance of kindness.
It costs nothing to give someone a kind comment, carry out a kind action, and if more people did it, the world would be a nicer, brighter place.
Of course, the more we do it, the more chance we have of influencing others and encouraging them to jump on board the `kindness train' too.
And, I know that every little bit helps but I often think if more of those in the public eye did more kind things - just for the benefit of others - it could have a positive ripple effect.
This week, Jenny from The Block herself - J Lo - changed lives just because it was the right thing to do.
She and her fiancé Alex Rodriguez made a very generous decision after hearing a sad story concerning a pupil at a school in the US.
A teacher at the elementary school revealed on Facebook earlier this month how she had enlisted the help of her colleagues to buy food for a pupil who did not have enough to eat and was relying on the school for sustenance.
Moved by the story, the Hustlers star and her fiancé decided to donate a year's supply of food from Tiller & Hatch, which they are both part owners of.
The pair revealed the details of their donation to the teacher at the heart of the story via a phone call in which they said they had been moved by her account and had to help by donating a year's worth of healthy meals, for the students and their school's food pantry.
"When we saw this story, it brought tears not just to my eyes, but Alex's as well," said Jennifer Lopez.
She said being business owners allowed them "to have a say in creating things that make people's lives better and have partners that share our passion for giving back. Because giving back and being there for others is really what matters most".
What a wonderful sentiment.
They probably have no idea how many lives they have changed and improved as a result of their decision.
I only wish others could follow suit.
Of course, there are some who will say they only did it for the good publicity but I don't think so.
I believe this was a heartfelt, genuine decision.
Well done to Jennifer and Alex and it is true what she says, don't be fooled by the rocks that she got, she is still Jenny from the Block.
It doesn't matter who you are or what you are worth, everyone can be kind.
--------------------------------------------------
The Westlife boys returned to the spotlight this week with a new single - and what a beautiful tune it is.
Co-written by Ed Sheeran and Steve Mac, `My Blood' is a smile-inducing song about the importance of family.
The video to go with it features each of the band members' children including Mark Feehily's new baby girl, Layla, who was born last month.
The video shows lots of hugging and kidding and playing and fun, it is really moving.
If you haven't seen or heard `My Blood', check it out but have the tissues at the ready, you have been warned.
------------------------------------------------
Competition
The cosy season is upon us, so why not cuddle up with an "explosive story".
Rewind by Catherine Ryan Howard is the story of Psycho meets Fatal Attraction.
Andrew, the manager of Shanamore Holiday Cottages, watches his only guest via a hidden camera in her room.
One night, the unthinkable happens.
A shadowy figure emerges on screen, kills her and destroys the camera.
But who is the murderer? How did they know about the camera? And how will Andrew live with himself?
Natalie wishes she'd stayed at home as soon as she arrives in the wintry isolation of Shanamore.
There's something creepy about the manager.
She wants to leave, but she can't - not until she's found what she's looking for...
This is a gripping story about a murder caught on camera.
You've already missed the start.
To get the full picture you must rewind the tape and play it through to the end, no matter how shocking.
I have five copies of Rewind to give away.
If you fancy winning a copy, simply email your name, address and telephone number – along with the answer to the question below – to competitions@irishnews.com
Closing date for entries is 12 noon on Tuesday, October 29, 2019
(Q) Who wrote Rewind?
Normal Irish News Rules Apply
---------------------------------------------------------
The winners of the Elave competition are Claire Cunningham, from Belfast, Katherine McGuckin, from Cookstown, K McCabe, from Omagh, Cathy Donnelly, from Belfast, and Marie Burns, from Cookstown.
