
# What's your favorite mod?

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:00:10+00:00**

Author: **PC Gamer**

Original: [PC Gamer](https://www.pcgamer.com/whats-your-favorite-mod/)

Find all previous editions of the PCG Q&A here. Some highlights:- What was the last game or service you subscribed to?- Which keys do you always rebind?- How do you hold your mouse?
Mods are one of the best things about PC gaming. Whether we're talking about complete overhauls like Third Age: Total War or Long War or The Nameless Mod for Deus Ex, or those mods that do one thing and do it well, like mod that lets you play GTA 5 as the Incredible Hulk or the ones that put Thomas the Tank Engine into every other game.
Then there are the mods that transcend their origins to become standalone games of their own, like Garry's Mod, Natural Selection, Black Mesa, Counter-Strike or Team Fortress, and yes, that is a lot of Valve games. It's wild to think that mods like DOTA, DayZ, and Minecraft's Survival Games have basically been responsible for the creation of entire genres.
Our weekend question is: What's your favorite mod? Here are some of ours, let us know yours in the comments.
I'm getting serious choice paralysis here. Do I pick something big like The Stanley Parable that would go on to become its own game? Do I pick something small like the one Kerbal Space Program mod that adds NASA comms chatter to further enhance an already emotive and atmospheric game? Do I pick something important like Defence of the Ancients or the mod that turns the Skyrim dragon into Randy Savage?
Instead, I'll pick something functional: I can't imagine the struggle of playing Vampire: The Masquerade—Bloodlines without the unofficial patch—be it the major changes like restoring quests and dialogue, the many, many fixes, or just the ability to skip the damn warrens. It's such a major suite of improvements that it's installed as standard into the GOG version of the game. It's not the most exciting mod in terms of new or funny features, but it makes an unfinished cult classic playable. That's a really important example of what modding can mean to PC gaming at large.
Probably the A Game of Thrones mod for Crusader Kings 2. It transforms the real world into Westeros and populates it with hundreds of characters from the books, which, if you're a GoT fan is incredibly fun—not just interacting with those characters but watches as an alt-history is created, quickly spiraling off from the book's events into a whole new fiction. It inspired me to write an exhaustive (and probably exhausting) 10-part diary about playing as Littlefinger's next-door neighbor back in 2015. In that world, Arya was never born, Tyrion had a bunch of kids, Aegon Targaryan actually shows up, and my own character's family spends a full five generations trying to lay claim to an entirely worthless series of tiny islands.
If you're a Game of Thrones fan you owe it to yourself to try it, even if you've never played Crusader Kings 2. You'll pick it up as you go, I promise.
