
# Trees removed on Mayo street to make way for wind turbines

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:48:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/04/4181887-trees-removed-on-mayo-street-to-make-way-for-wind-turbines/)

A DELIVERY of wind turbines to a site in Derrynadiva on the outskirks of Castlebar is imminent.
But preparations for the operation are proving far from straight forward.
Following discussions between the developers and Mayo County Council, a decision was made to remove three established trees and 11 bollards at Lucan Street.
This work was carried out in recent days.
All the bollards will be replaced following the delivery while new trees will be replanted next sping.
The developer is bearing the full cost of the works.
A spokesperson for the council said: “While it is not council policy to remove established trees of this kind, all other haul routes proved to be unsuitable owing to the turning movements of the low level, long vehicles.
“Routes from north and west of the site have been checked out.
“The turbines movement will take place over four nights, spread out by a week or more, weather dependant, and the developer is to arrange for notice to business to remove vehicles from the area, and a gardaí escort will be provided.
“The developer will be carrying out some minor improvements works to the road near Derrynadiva to provide a more level surface for the hauling stage with full cost to be covered by the developer.”
