
# Best Baby Monitor & Baby Tech Deals November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:53:00+00:00**

Author: **Karen Haslam**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/gadget/baby-tech-deals-3680650/)

Babies are expensive. In the first month alone you're looking at around £500 spent on nappies, food and related bits and bobs, so you should make savings wherever you can - especially on the pricey tech that can make your life easier. We've rounded up some great deals on baby tech below.

        From: Mamas & PapasWas: £159.99Now: £74.99  (£85 off) View Deal
      
This bundle includes everything you need to make baby feeding straightforward, including bottles, a steam steriliser and a bottle warmer.

        From: MothercareWas: £249.99Now: £199.99  (£50 off) View Deal
      
This Angelcare bundle, available at Mothercare while it's still trading, includes a movement sensor pad as well as a baby monitor and 5in video display.
This means you can monitor the nursery and respond if there is crying, but also be alerted to reduced movement.

        From: MothercareWas: £100Now: £40  (£60 off) View Deal
      
We're sad that it looks like Mothercare will be closing - although we are hopeful it will continue online. In the meantime, you can pick up some good deals, like this Ocean Adventure Entertainer, which is a little like the Rainforest Jumperoo, but much cheaper.

        From: AmazonWas: £125.99Now: £78  (£47.99 off) View Deal
      
The Tommee Tippee Perfect Prep machine is a must-have for any new mum and dad. Rather than boil the kettle, mix the boiling water with the formula, and then wait for the milk to cool before giving it to your screaming baby (or babies) to drink, you can use the Perfect Prep to prepare the formula quickly and know that the milk will be the prefect temperature.
The Perfect Prep machine is particularly useful when you are thumbling around in the early hours trying to prepare a night-time feed.
Amazon has money off right now, so it's a great time to purchase one.

        From: AmazonWas: £121.99Now: £80.57  (£41.42 off) View Deal
      
This electric breast pump set includes everything you need to get started.

        From: AmazonWas: £106.99Now: £68.95  (£38.04 off) View Deal
      
This Tommee Tippee contraption will steam and blend food for your baby - with a variety of textures for different weaning stages.

        From: Mamas & PapasWas: £89Now: £89  (£30 off) View Deal
      
A chair that rocks is a great way to calm your baby, or even him or her it to go to sleep! There are three recline positions, four melodies, and a vibrate function. Plus Mamas & Papas has money off right now.

        From: AmazonWas: £34.99Now: £20  (£14.99 off) View Deal
      
No matter how you protect your baby from germs at some point you will have to face a cold, or worse. Find out how high their temperature is with this handy little gadget. We find it much easier to use than the flimsy film thermometer you have to hold on their forehead (because kids never stay still long enough for them to work!) This takes a second!

        From: AmazonWas: £92.99Now: £74.89  (£18.10 off) View Deal
      
There's a smaller version of the popular Rainforest Jumperoo. The Rainforest Spacesaver Jumperoo folds up, which is handy if your living room is full of baby stuff. Baby gets to jump and enjoy flashing lights, music and even play on the piano.

        From: AmazonWas: £34.99Now: £19.99  (£15 off) View Deal
      
The Gro-Clock Sleep Trainer from the Gro Company is designed to help toddlers know when it is time to get up in the morning.

        From: AmazonWas: £129.99Now: £117.99  (£12 off) View Deal
      
BT's Video Baby Monitor 6000 has a 5in screen for watching your baby sleeping, or crying, or climbing out of the cot, on. You can also see the temperature in the nursery.
There's a choice of five lullabies that will hopefully sooth your baby to sleep.
You also have a range of 250m outdoors - so you could probably get to the bottom of the garden, though not all the way down the road.
There's money off right now at Amazon.
 

        From: AmazonWas: £24.99Now: £13  (£11.99 off) View Deal
      
The Gro-Egg Room Thermometer not only monitors the temperature in the nursery - it glows a different colour depending on how warm it gets.
