
# Nintendo's Ring Fit Adventure Tricked Me Into Liking Squats, But the Calorie-Burn Was Lacking

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:00:42+00:00**

Author: **Victoria Song**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/nintendos-ring-fit-adventure-tricked-me-into-liking-squats-but-the-calorie-burn-was-lacking/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+uk%2Fgizmodo+%28Gizmodo+UK%29&hl=en)

As long as people want to lose weight, there’s always going to be some sort of fitness grift – be it super-expensive treadmills with on-demand classes, a mirror that guides you through workouts, or the army of Peloton knockoff bikes. It’d be fair if your first impulse would be to group Nintendo’s Ring Fit Adventure for the Switch into that pile of dubious, gamified fitness schlock. The Ring-Con looks stupid. Running in place in your living room also looks stupid. If you have an ounce of common sense, you know this thing isn’t going to turn your flabby tum into rock-solid washboard abs. But here’s why you should consider buying it anyway: Ring Fit Adventure makes exercise genuinely fun.
Out of the box, you get the game, a thigh holster for your left Joy-Con, and a circular resistance band that holds your right Joy-Con – a Ring-Con if you will. For £70, that’s not terrible considering you are getting the Ring-Con, which itself is packed with sensors. The thigh holster is fine – it’s basically a mesh pouch attached to a velcro strap. It does its job, though I found myself having to readjust it from time to time. The Ring-Con is more impressive. While the trailer made it look like it was easy to squeeze and pull, it’s actually more on the challenging side.
But decent hardware isn’t why you’d want to shell out. The real draw is the gameplay. The best way I can describe Ring Fit Adventure is it reminds me of the pill pocket treats I use to stuff medicine down my dog’s throat. Except, in this case, exercise is the pill and the treat is game itself. The main Ring Fit Adventure game is an RPG-esque “story.” There’s a thicc dragon called Dragaux, who acts as the game’s main boss and as Nintendo told me, represents negative gym culture. With the help of an anthropomorphic ring, your job is to chase him through individual worlds. Along the way, you save villagers from... his evil gym bro aura and fight his cute little lackeys – all shaped after different types of gym equipment – with various bodyweight exercises. These little guys are colour-coded to indicate their weaknesses, so there’s even some strategy involved. The blue kettlebell-shaped monster, for example, is weak against leg exercises. Red monsters are vulnerable to arm exercises, yellow ones hate core exercises, while green ones really hate yoga moves. The better your form, the more damage you do.
The battles are where you feel the real burn. Sure, jogging in place might get your heart rate up, but you can easily cheat that. If you’ve got sensitive neighbours downstairs, for instance, you can opt for a “soft knees” version so you don’t cause quite a racket. But there’s nothing stopping you from using that mode all the time – except maybe shame. That said, you can’t fake battles. On average, I found it takes about three sets of various exercises, with 15-20 reps each, to beat a monster. That’s not nothing! A bunch of blue demons is how this game somehow convinced me to do 60 squats in a half-hour of play. While I definitely felt the burn, it was somehow less horrible knowing that the further I pushed my glutes and quadriceps, the more pain I wailed on these little turds. This, coming from a person who fucking hates squats.
