
# Google Photos gets album sorting and Pixel 4 can now export video stills

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:27:50+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/google-photos-gets-album-sorting-and-pixel-4-can-export-video-stills?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Police
      
Photos is one of Google's most successful products, and for good reason, because it never stops improving the app. Over the past couple of months, we've seen Google enhance it with a way to control what photos show up on your smart display using Photo frames and the ability to order same-day prints from CVS.
Now, Google is rolling out a couple of new features, one exclusive to the Pixel 4 and the other is for all users. Beginning with version 4.28 of Google Photos, Pixel 4 users will now be able to export video frames as a photo.

        Source: Android Police
      
The feature is found in the new, slightly redesigned video editor. Previously, the video editor included the timeline with text labels for Stabilize and Rotate underneath. Now, in version 4.28 of Google Photos, Stabilize and Rotate have both been changed to icon buttons with the timeline moved to the bottom.
In between the new buttons is where you'll find the new Export frame option. Tapping on the button will create a still image from your video in either 1080 x 1920 or 2160 x 3830, depending on the resolution of the video.
Album sorting is the next feature that is rolling out to all users via a server-side test, meaning you may have it already or it may be coming soon. Historically, Photos has sorted albums in reverse chronological order, however, with the new sorting option, you'll be able to choose between Most recent photo, Last modified, or Album title.

        Source: 9to5Google
      
This is a feature I wish would have rolled out ages ago, but better late than never, right? If you're one of the lucky ones with it already enabled, you can find the option right across from the "ALBUMS" label under the Albums tab in the Google Photos app.

        How to get your pictures out of Facebook and into Google Photos
      

        Speaker optional Nest Wifi now available, here are your buying options Google’s second-generation wireless home router goes by a new name, Nest Wifi, and its range extender now features a built-in Google Assistant speaker. The single and two-pack options are now available, but which is best for you?
      

        New patch The November 2019 security patch improves the Pixel 4's 90Hz display Google is pushing out its November 2019 security patch to Pixel devices, with one of the highlights being improvements to the Pixel 4's Smooth Display feature.
      

        Facebook New Face Facebook's new corporate logo is as boring as they come Facebook has announced a new corporate logo design, as well as a corporate initiative to include the new logo on all of its major app and service properties.
      

        Who needs a wallet? Keep your wallet put away and pay with your Wear OS watch Ready to start paying for your coffee with just your watch? Here are all the Wear OS devices that support Google Pay!
      
