
# Real Madrid Transfer News: Five Out, Five In?

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/real-madrid-transfer-news-five-out-five-in/666748)

With the January transfer window approaching and Real Madrid's 2019/20 season being one of many ups and downs, there are a number of first-team stars who could be sold, while there are at least five players on Zinedine Zidane's reported wish list.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see the possible incomings and outgoings at Los Blancos in January, according to various sources.
        
      
Despite Real currently being joint leaders in LaLiga, Zidane has come in for much criticism for his team's performances so far this season, especially in the UEFA Champions League, where they have won just one of their first three Group A matches.
Along with the 47-year-old French manager, a few players in the senior set-up are facing uncertain futures, with some of them even tipped to be on the club's January exit list.
Young playmaker Brahim Diaz, who has played just once this season, has been linked with a loan move away from the LaLiga giants, as per Marca. Striker Mariano Diaz is said to be in the same boat, with reports suggesting the club will also look to offload the former Castilla star.
Arguably the most high-profile exit fans could see in January is Gareth Bale. The Welshman's time in Spain appears to be coming to an end, despite his good form earlier this season. Zidane is prepared to continue without the 30-year-old, with whom he has not enjoyed a positive working relationship.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
Two other big names could be on the chopping block, but who are the biggest names being linked with moves to the Santiago Bernabeu?
Sky Sports reported on Monday that the 13-time European champions are preparing to launch a massive bid for Manchester City's Raheem Sterling, whom they would be prepared to offer cash plus Bale for.
The Citizens, however, are likely to turn down any approach for their star man, who has contributed to 18 goals in 15 matches across all competitions already in this campaign.
Rumours appear to suggest that the club might rekindle their interest in Liverpool winger Mohamed Salah, a player they have been linked with in recent years. The Egyptian might be the ideal signing due to his natural inclination to cut on to his left foot from the right side of attack, with Bale currently the only available player offering this to the team.
Perhaps a surprising target is William Saliba, a young French defender who is on loan from Arsenal at Saint-Etienne. The Daily Mirror has reported that Zidane is a big fan of the centre-back, although the Gunners are likely to be reluctant to let him leave.

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
Click through the gallery above to see all five players who could leave Real in January, as well as the five players the Spanish giants might look to sign come the turn of the year!
