
# Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn set to go head-to-head in general election TV leaders debate

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:46:01+00:00**

Author: **Record Reporter**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/boris-johnson-jeremy-corbyn-set-20790682)

Jeremy Corbyn and Boris Johnson are set to head to head in a live TV ahead of the general election.
The PM and Labour leader will square off on November the 19th on ITV.
 
Jeremy Corbyn welcomed the announcement.
In a tweet the Labour leader said: “This is a once in a generation election.
“So it’s welcome that Boris Johnson has accepted our challenge of a head to head TV debate.
The choice could not be clearer: Boris Johnson’s Conservatives protecting the privileged few or a Labour government on the side of the many.”
Johnson also took to Twitter to comment on the debate.
"Looking forward to making the positive case to the country that we should £GetBrexitDone & deliver on the people's priorities - £OurNHS, schools, tackling crime & the cost of living," he said.
The Prime Minister was accused of running scarred from TV debates by rival Jeremy Hunt during the race to take over the Tory Party after the departure of Theresa May.
Johnson did take part in two one-on-one debates during the battle for the Tory crown, but not before Mr Hunt and others placed him under great pressure to do so.
Confirming the tussle ITV press tweeted: “ITV will show the first head-to-head debate between Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn on 19th November.
“Details of further multi-party debate and comprehensive general election coverage in due course”.
