
# Giants Engram status for Jets uncertain because of foot

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **TOM CANAVAN**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/6/giants-engram-status-for-jets-uncertain-because-of/)

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) - New York Giants leading receiver Evan Engram has a sprained left foot, and his status for Sunday’s game against the Jets is uncertain.
Wearing a walking boot on his foot, the Giants tight end described his injury Wednesday as a low-grade sprain.
Engram did not join teammates for a jog-through.
“It could be a lot worse, I guess around the Lisfranc area. I don’t know all the details,” Engram said. “I just have to go with the routine, roll with the punches.”
Engram, who has 44 catches for 467 yards and three touchdowns, said he has been told he does not have the more severe Lisfranc sprain, which could end a player’s season.
Engram said he was hurt in the third quarter of Monday night’s 37-18 loss to the Cowboys when someone rolled on his foot. He aggravated it in the fourth quarter. His foot was swollen after the game.
The Giants (2-7) have a bye after Sunday’s game, so Engram might be given a little extra time to get healthy.
Engram said he has never had this type of injury. Treatment will be rehabilitation. He said the coaches and medical staff will determine whether he plays against the Jets (1-7).
“It’s tough, I definitely hate missing time, I hate not being out there playing football,” Engram said. “It’s out of my control, so I just have to control what I can and get back as soon as I can.”
Engram said his agent asked to Giants to send to test results to foot specialist Dr. Robert Anderson for a second opinion.
Coach Pat Shurmur said center Jon Halapio did not work out Wednesday because of a hamstring injury. If he cannot play Sunday, Spencer Pulley will replace him. Pulley started nine games at center last season.
Wide receiver Sterling Shepard also missed the workout. He was in Pittsburgh to have his second concussion of the season re-evaluated. Shepard has missed the last four games, and five overall.
Shepard was supposed to return to the lineup Monday night, but he developed symptoms over the weekend after he had been cleared to return to action.
The Giants did not say who was seeing Shepard. The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center has a well-known sports concussion program run by Dr. Michael Collins.
Fellow receiver Golden Tate III said Shepard’s injury is scary.
“It’s very unfortunate that he’s still dealing with the concussion, but that’s something you do not want to play with,” Tate said. “You can kind of wing an ankle or other injuries, but when it comes to your brain, you only have one of those, and the picture outside of football is way more important, I think. We obviously want him out there, but I think it’s important that he makes sure the timing is right, if it is right, that he comes back and he is completely healed.”
Tate said he only wants Shepard back when he is healthy, whether it be this week, later this season or even next year.
More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/NFL and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
