
# Hugh Hewitt Urges McConnell To Run Impeachment Trial Merrick Garland Style

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Talking Points Memo](https://talkingpointsmemo.com/news/hugh-hewitt-mcconnell-impeachment-trial-senate-merrick-garland)

Conservative radio host and commentator Hugh Hewitt urged Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) to take a page from his own playbook in deciding which ground rules to follow as he tackles the looming prospect that the House will send impeachment articles in coming weeks.
Follow the Merrick Garland approach.
In a new column in the Washington Post, Hewitt laid out the risks of the perceived three options that stand before McConnell — a quick dismissal; a long, extensive trial; and a limited trial, which he argues would “serve only to reward Democrats for their bad behavior.” Hewitt said the long trial approach might help President Trump’s reelection chances because it would give Republicans ample time to poke holes in House Democrats’ evidence. But, he lamented, this approach also stands to give legitimacy to Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) “process,” which he believes is “compromised.”
That leaves McConnell with just one solid option, according to Hewitt: “Peremptory dismissal” of the charges to express Senate Republicans’ belief that the articles “do not merit the Senate’s sustained attention,” he said. McConnell performed the same outright stonewalling when Congress was tasked with picking another Supreme Court justice in the last year of former President Barack Obama’s presidency. Garland famously was never afforded a hearing in the Senate, and with Trump’s ultimate election victory, he has been able to name two justices to the high court.
Hewitt argues:
Read the full column here. 
