
# Have you ever bought a phone knowing you weren't going to keep it?

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:33:17+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/have-you-ever-bought-phone-knowing-you-werent-going-keep-it?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Buying a smartphone in 2019 is a big deal. There are endless options to choose from at various price ranges, a laundry list of features to consider, and with things like size/feel-in-hand, you sometimes need to get your hands on a phone to get a feel for whether or not it's a good fit.
With all of that being the case, some people go the route of buying a phone with the sole intent of not keeping it. That way, if you're uncertain about a particular handset, you can try it for a few days, test it out, and then send it back during the return window.
Here's what some of our AC forum members have to say about this practice.
What about you? Have you ever bought a phone knowing you weren't going to keep it?

        Join the conversation in the forums!
      

        Speaker optional Nest Wifi now available, here are your buying options Google’s second-generation wireless home router goes by a new name, Nest Wifi, and its range extender now features a built-in Google Assistant speaker. The single and two-pack options are now available, but which is best for you?
      

        New patch The November 2019 security patch improves the Pixel 4's 90Hz display Google is pushing out its November 2019 security patch to Pixel devices, with one of the highlights being improvements to the Pixel 4's Smooth Display feature.
      

        Facebook New Face Facebook's new corporate logo is as boring as they come Facebook has announced a new corporate logo design, as well as a corporate initiative to include the new logo on all of its major app and service properties.
      

        safety first Protect your Nokia 7.1 with the best cases available today! It's always a stressful situation in the event that something happens to your smartphone. This is true for the Nokia 7.1 as you wouldn't want to have to replace your new device due to a cracked screen. To combat those concerns, we have found the best cases you can get for your new phone!
      
