
# Bridge of Earn GP surgery praise urged after criticism

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:37:09+00:00**

Author: **Robbie Chalmers**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/bridge-earn-gp-surgery-praise-20814607)

Former GP patients are being called on to highlight the positive work done by doctors and staff at a now-closed medical practice.
Chair of Earn Community Council, John Bruce, has asked those in the Bridge of Earn area who receive a Health and Social Care Experience Survey 2019/20 to use it to sing the praises of the service over the last 12 months before its closure.
A number of the surveys were sent out to town residents earlier in October to ask about patients’ experiences of accessing and using the Bridge of Earn GP practice, which shut its doors in August.
The questionnaire asks patients to rate the care experience over the last year up to August 20, 2019, which was just days before the GP closed.
Some of the 3500 former patients who received a letter had taken to a village social media community page to criticise the quest for feedback.
However, Mr Bruce feels that it is actually the perfect opportunity to put a spotlight on the good work done at the GP.
He said: “I think we should make the most of it. It was a great service.
“[The surgery closure] was unfortunate.
“The doctors and staff served our community very well and we have to respect them for that.
“It is a service but they are trying to run a profitable business. It kept a lot of people in the community.
“But, really it was about time the property was developed and it has needed it for quite some time.”
The chair also praised the resourcefulness of the locals to try fill the void left by the practice.
The town’s Dunbarney Church Hall will host Taymount Surgery for a flu vaccination clinic tomorrow (November 6) for any Bridge of Earn residents registered with Taymount.
Anyone over the age of 65 or patients aged 18-64 who are living with a long-term condition are eligible, as are unpaid carers and expectant mothers.
The session is not a drop-in clinic and patients must be booked in advance by calling 01738 627117.
“We have set up other sessions for blood checks and other things,” Mr Bruce added.
“Taymount will be holding a clinic in the local church which will help.
“The community is showing some resilience and ideas which is going to help ease the change.”
The Health and Social Care Experience Survey is carried out in consultation with NHS boards, including NHS Tayside, integration authorities and NHS National Services Scotland, among others.
A Scottish Government spokesperson said: “The safety of patients and practice staff is always the highest priority and NHS Tayside have said that they are providing financial and staffing support to practices taking on additional patients.
“The Health and Social Care Experience Survey sample was based on patient information as of August 20 and asks about their experiences of general practice, care and support provided by local authorities and other organisations, and caring responsibilities over the last 12 months.
“These patients’ views are still important and helps build a picture of patient experience at national and health board level.”
