
# Lister SUV-E concept unveiled

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:08:26+00:00**

Author: **Derek Fung**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805364/lister-suv-e-concept-unveiled/)

- shares
The Lister SUV-E previews a new addition to the company's range: a modified version of the Jaguar I-Pace electric crossover.
Lister has fitted the crossover with a new bonnet, front and rear splitters, front and rear bumpers, and roof spoiler made from carbon-fibre. There's also carbon ceramic brakes, and Lister-designed titanium wheels.
These changes are said to reduce the car's weight by around 100 kilograms to 2033kg.
Additionally, Lister said it has liberated more power and torque from the I-Pace's two-motor electric powertrain via a software update. Although how much more it has over and above the 294kW/696Nm I-Pace is unknown at this stage.
Lister claims the SUV-E will have a 0-60mph (0-97km/h) time of around 4.0 seconds, down from the I-Pace's 4.5s.
Other changes include a fully adjustable lowered suspension system, wheel arch extensions, and a new louder fake exhaust sound system to comply with the EU's low-speed electric vehicle regulations.
The cabin will feature Nappa leather available in 60 colours and complemented by 200 stitching colours. Buyers will also be able to select any hue they want for the exterior.
According to Lister, the SUV-E will only be produced in a limited run, although quite how small that number is depends on the number of pre-orders received.
In the UK, the SUV-E will be priced from £125,000 ($235,000), a significant step up from the regular I-Pace, which kicks off from £60,995 ($115,000).
13
nextpreviousLister SUV-E concept unveiled
