
# Iconic Tunnock's teacake wrappers are turning purple - this is why

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Jane Barrie, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jane-barrie/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/tunnocks-teacakes-turning-purple-heres-20784678)

Scotland's favourite teatime snack has changed colour to raise awareness of the world’s toughest cancer.
Tunnock ’s has produced a limited-edition batch of its famous teacakes wrapped in purple foil ahead of Pancreatic Cancer Awareness Month which begins today.
The company made 1000 of the biscuits at its factory in Uddingston, Lanarkshire.
Owner Sir Boyd Tunnock said: “The colour purple symbolises the fight against pancreatic cancer and we were only too happy to ditch our distinctive red and silver branding to highlight such a good cause.”
The biscuits will be donated to the Pancreatic Cancer Scotland (PCS) charity for fundraising.
 
Tunnock said: “Pancreatic Cancer Scotland is an organisation that’s close to our hearts at Tunnock’s .
“We’ve had members of staff affected by pancreatic cancer and wanted to do all we could to help raise awareness.
“But I don’t mind telling you we had a bit of bother sourcing exactly the right colour of foil for the biscuits. It was important to us that we got the correct shade of purple . Thankfully our suppliers were on the case and able to help.”
Scottish landmarks will also be lit purple during the month.
PCS development manager Fiona Brown said: “Everyone loves Tunnock’s tea cakes – the branding is famous all over the world – and we’re honoured to have our very own limited edition biscuits.
“All our fantastic supporters play a key role and embrace our belief that together we can make a difference.”
About 800 people a year in Scotland are diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, which the lowest survival rate of all major cancers.
