
# Tomsk residents to see films from 15 countries at EU film festival

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [РИА Томск](https://www.riatomsk.ru/article/20191107/tomsk-residents-to-see-films-from-15-countries-at-eu-film-festival/)

TOMSK, Nov 7 – RIA Tomsk. Films from 15 countries were included in program of the third festival of European movie, which will take place in Tomsk from November 22 to December 4 in entertainment center Fakel; for the first time organizers included movies from Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia among the best on the continent, press service of festival reported RIA Tomsk.
Earlier it was reported that the EU Film Festival was held in Tomsk in 2017 and 2018. Tomsk citizens saw movies in different genres, but united by the ideas of pluralism and diversity. In 2018, spectator interest exceeded the expectations of the organizers, and the 12-day cinema marathon was extended by two days for reruns. The third festival is scheduled to be held in November 2019.
According to the press service, the third film festival of the EU countries will start in Tomsk on November 22 and will end on December 4. The organizers invited the Governor of the Tomsk Region Sergei Zhvachkin and the EU Ambassador to the Russian Federation Marcus Ederer to the opening ceremony.
As in previous years, the press service notes, almost all movies are marked with the largest national and international prizes and won the love of the audience both in their homeland and abroad. Genre diversity is also preserved: the program includes drama, comedy, as well as historical, adventure, family and documentary movies.
"This year’s Oscar long list in the category" Best Foreign Language Film" included the drama "Ivan"(Slovenia), which won eight awards at the 2017 National Film Festival, and the adventure epic "Pilgrimage" (Portugal)... The historical drama of Latvian cinematographers "Father Night" will fight with other foreign films for a place on the short list of the Oscar Award", – the press service adds.
It is specified that all films will be shown in the original language with Russian subtitles. A brief overview of the films can be viewed on the festival website.
