
# How to turn some of the capital in your home into tax-free cash

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:56:27+00:00**

Author: **Harvey Jones**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/equity-release-advice-money-captial-20756457)

Equity release is available to those aged 55 or over, with a UK property worth at least £70,000.
It allows you to unlock some of the capital sitting idle in your home and turn it into tax-free cash that you can spend on doing up your home, easing financial worries, taking a holiday or helping your family.
A big attraction is that you do not have to sell your home or make any debt repayments while you are alive. Instead the total debt is usually cleared from the sale of your property after you die or go into long-term care. Until then, you and your partner have a guaranteed right to continue living in your home for the rest of your lives.
Your home is almost certainly your biggest asset, and that means you want to be certain that you are doing the right thing.
One of the most important features to look out for is something called a no-negative equity guarantee. This pledges that when your property is sold, following your death or when you move into long-term care, neither you nor your loved ones will owe more than your home is worth. The guarantee applies regardless of what happens to house prices in the years ahead.
Safeguards like these are boosting confidence in equity release , and the number of customers is steadily rising.
To help you choose an equity release scheme with absolute confidence, the Mirror has teamed up with equity release specialist HUB Financial Solutions, to bring you the Mirror Equity Release Advice Service.
Taking advice from somebody who specialises in equity release is essential, to ensure that any plan you take out has all the necessary safeguards in place.
HUB Financial Solutions belongs to industry body the Equity Release Council, whose members must adhere to a strict statement of principles designed to protect customers.
Typically, every product it recommends will include the no-negative equity guarantee, giving you and your family absolute peace of mind.
For further security, HUB Financial Solutions is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
There are other things to consider when taking out equity release, for example, the payout may affect your entitlement to State benefits, something your adviser will check before recommending you go ahead.
Equity release will also reduce the amount you can leave your loved ones as an inheritance, which is why you should talk to any affected family members first.
There is a wide choice of plans with different charges and benefits, and your HUB Financial Solutions adviser will talk you through the various options available from a panel of selected providers. Equity release isn't right for everybody, and if that applies in your case, your adviser will tell you.
Your initial consultation is FREE and carries no obligation. If you decide that equity release isn’t right for you, you can simply leave it there. If you do choose to proceed with a product HUB Financial Solutions recommends, an advice fee of £1,100 is payable upon completion.
To find out more, call free today on 0808 169 2054 or download your free guide here .
Lines are open 9am to 6pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays. Calls may be monitored for training and regulatory purposes.
