
# Olivia Newton-John's 'Grease' outfit sells for an electrifying R6m at auction

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:47:45+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Movies/News/olivia-newton-johns-grease-outfit-sells-for-an-electrifying-r6m-at-auction-20191104-2)

Los Angeles - It was the one they all wanted - the black leather jacket and high-waisted skin-tight pants worn by Olivia Newton-John in the finale of "Grease" electrified a Beverly Hills auction, selling for $405 700 (R6 023 833).
Now part of Hollywood history, the iconic musical comedy starring Newton-John and John Travolta still arouses passions more than 40 years after it first appeared in movie theatres.
Newton-John donned the outfit to sing You're the One that I Want with Travolta, her transformation into a sexy greaser girl complete.
The final price paid Saturday night was twice the pre-sale estimate, according to Julien's Auctions.
Released in 1978, the most successful movie musical ever tells the high school love story of Sandy (Newton-John) and Danny (Travolta), set in the 1950s.
A poster signed by Travolta, Newton-John and other members of the cast that had carried a $1 000 (R15 000) pre-auction estimate sold for $64 000 (R950 272).
Part of the proceeds from the sale of items from the actress' collection will go to fund the Olivia Newton-John centre for cancer research. 
The actress was diagnosed with cancer for a third time in 2018.
HBO recently announced plans for a series inspired by Grease, which will revisit certain songs and characters from the film.
