
# Family members lift lid on ambush and slaughter of nine by Mexican cartel

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:08:18+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/family-members-lift-lid-ambush-20817400)

The grieving family of nine people gunned down by cartel gunman have spoken about the horror that claimed the lives of their loved ones.
Three American mothers and six gunmen from a Mormon community were ambushed by gang members.
The victims, who belonged to the LeBaron family, were attacked roughly eight miles apart in the Mexican border state of Sonora on Monday while traveling in a convoy of three SUVs.
Nine of the LeBaron family members, who have ties to Utah, were slaughtered in the massacre and one child was still missing.
On social media one family member said that gunmen opened fire on one child running away while others burned to death inside a car that was torched.
Six children were wounded in the attack and five have since been transferred to hospitals in Phoenix, Arizona.
Other young children managed to escape and hide by the roadside while one of the mothers was shot in the chest as she put her hands up to surrender.
Relatives fear some of the victims may have been raped.
 
A boy managed to hide his wounded siblings in bushes while he ran to a nearby town to get help ater his mum was gunned down, according to one family member.
The exact motive of the brutal killings on a dirt road between the Chihuahua and Sonora states is not clear.
Some family members believe it was an attempted kidnapping.
One relative said they received a phone call hearing screams before they were executed.
The relatives say her car had broken down when gunmen opened fire. They set her car ablaze which caused the petrol tank to explode.
A video posted on social media showed the charred and smoking remains of the vehicle riddled with bullet holes.
A male voice can be heard in the clip sayng: "This is for the record. Nita and four of my grandchildren are burnt and shot up."
Eight miles away in different attacks, several other family members were gunned down.
Christina Langford Johnson, 29, Dawna Ray Langford, 43, and two of Dawna's children, Trevor, 11, and Rogan, 3, also died while traveling in two other SUVs.
Family members say Christina saved her seven-month-old baby Faith's life by throwing the infant to the floor of their SUV as bullets tore through the vehicle.
Relatives say the baby had been in the back of the car all day before rescuers found her.  
Seven of Dawna's children survived but suffered multiple gunshot wounds, according to relatives.
Alex LeBaron, who says he lost family members in the attack, said three vehicles were targeted, taking the lives of three women, four small children and two infants.
"Women and children were massacred, burnt alive. Mothers were screaming for the fire to stop," he said.
"We are a very tight-knit community, we share everything that's happening.
“We've been dealing with this tragedy since early yesterday. We share all information within our family groups."
The State's attorney general's office confirmed officials from Chihuahua had been sent to the area to assist.
Sonora Governor Claudia Pavlovich Arellano said on Twitter her office was collaborating with the investigation.
"As a mother, I feel angry, scorn and a profound pain for the cowardly events in the mountains between Sonora and Chihuahua," she said.
"I don't know what type of monsters would dare to hurt women and children.
As governor, you have all my collaboration so that this doesn't remain unpunished and the responsible parties pay.”
