
# 11.11 big sales event is coming soon to Geekbuying - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:20:41+00:00**

Author: **Ying Hua**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/02/11-11-big-sales-event-is-coming-soon-to-geekbuying/)

Rate this post
November is already upon us and you surely know, what that means for all the chinese shops and sellers. Yes, the madness of Singles Day (aka 11.11 big sales event), when billions will flow and the shopping spree is going to be unimaginable. We still have few days to the peak of the craziness, but some shops are already starting with their promos and events. Favorite Geekbuying e-shop is no exception to this rule and you can already find some great deals and stock up with discount coupons for the main event. So let’s get down to it !
For starters there is a check-in promo event, where you can check-in every day up until 11.11 big sales event and get some extra coupons and free gifts in the process. Geekbuying is promissing $11.000.000 worth of coupons, so should be surely worth clawing your share of that. Some lucky participants will be even getting big prizes like free Xiaomi Mi Mix 3 5G, KUGOO S1 scooter, Tronsmart T6 Plus speaker or Amazfit GTR smartwatch. There will be also blanket coupons available with $2,$5,$15 and $30 value for orders over $10, $60, $150 and $300 respectively. So check it out.
There are also currently already some special coupon deals featured so we can point out some of the interesting ones. There will be something for the music lovers with TWS earphones like Tronsmart Spunky Beat or J29. Or something for those seeking great TV boxes with deals for A95X F3, Beelink GT King Pro or T95 Max. Here goes :
But of course the promos are pretty extensive and there will be daily limited lightning and flash deals featuring some stock limited products with massive price drops. But with these the drops will be more than enough so the coupons are not going to be working with these special ones. And what can you currently find there ? Well stuff like Huami  Amazfit GTR smartwatch for just $126.99, electric scooter KUGOO Kirin S2 Mini for $189.99 and many more. So also worth visiting and browsing the offers yourself. Happy hunting !
