
# Rangers 3-0 Hearts: Steven Gerrard's side set up final with Celtic

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:50:55+00:00**

Author: **Brian McLauchlin**

Original: [BBC Sport](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/50228402)


        Rangers will face holders Celtic in their first final since 2016 after dismantling managerless Hearts in the last four of the Scottish League Cup.
      
Steven Gerrard's side lost at this stage last year, but a Filip Helander strike and Alfredo Morelos' second-half double ensured the Rangers boss will lead them into the first final of his tenure on 8 December at Hampden.
Hearts offered precious little, with caretaker boss Austin MacPhee unable to improve on a run of seven defeats in eight League Cup semi-finals.
MacPhee took charge on Thursday, after Craig Levein was sacked with Hearts 11th in the Scottish Premiership, but his team never looked like extending Rangers' recent run of last-four disappointments.
The Ibrox club had lost at this stage on five consecutive occasions in the domestic cups, but they will now have a chance to claim a first major prize since 2011 and deny Celtic a 10th trophy in a row.
MacPhee may have surprised his Gerrard with the omission of Uche Ikpeazu just two weeks after the striker caused the Rangers defence all sorts of problems in the sides' 1-1 Premiership draw at Tynecastle, but it did not take long for the game to settle into a familiar pattern.
Rangers midfielder Ryan Jack, in particular, looked in the mood as he thundered into challenges, with Hearts defender Michael Smith feeling the full effect early doors.
Jack, who recently extended his contract, was involved in all that was good about Rangers play. His sweeping ball out to James Tavernier was then sent across the Hearts six yard box, with Smith clearing just as Morelos was about to tap into the empty net.
Hearts goalkeeper Joel Pereira had already saved well from Jack - Morelos knocking the rebound wide - before he was once again was called into action to save a Glen Kamara effort.
The pace of Ryan Kent was also evident as Hearts struggled to get any grip at all in the match as wave after wave of Rangers attacks continued.
The Tynecastle side were forced into an early change when influential midfielder Glenn Whelan had to come off with a hamstring injury. It was a huge blow for an already struggling side.
Referee John Beaton was also a busy man with yellow cards dished out to Steven MacLean and Sean Clare after rash challenges on Connor Goldson and Borna Barisic respectively.
Indeed, MacLean was possibly fortunate not to receive a second yellow when he came close to connecting with goalkeeper Allan McGregor. MacPhee was taking no chances, though, and quickly decided to haul him off with Ikpeazu coming on.
The Rangers surge towards the Hearts goal continued unabated, with Kent denied again, this time his strike hitting the outside of Pereira's left-hand post.
And, just as the board was being raised to indicate how much stoppage time would be played, Rangers made the breakthrough. A corner was cleared but only as far as Morelos, whose teasing delivery found Helander in yards of space to finish smartly.
It was no less than the Ibrox club deserved after a 45 minutes of dominance and, within two minutes of the second half starting, Rangers' place in the final was all but secured.
The Hearts defence were spectators as the Tavernier fired the ball across the six-yard box towards Morelos, who had a simple task of knocking home from close range.
The goal could have knocked the stuffing out of Hearts but, to their credit, they rallied with Ikpeazu and Craig Wighton both coming close.
Steven Naismith then was introduced for the first time since August in place of Smith, who had taken a knock just before half-time.
There was no relenting in Rangers pressure, though, with a Jack volley eventually cleared by Pereira and Morelos finding the side-netting.
But there was no missing the target just after the hour mark as the Colombian netted the third. Kent showed Clare a clean pair of heels before cutting back for the striker to score his second.
Many of the Hearts fans began to head towards the exit as Morelos thought he had scored number four, only for the flag to be raised for offside.
Joe Aribo, Scott Arfield and Jermain Defoe were all brought on, with Kent, Sheyi Ojo and Jack making way, no doubt with Thursday's Europa League game against Porto in mind.
The game fizzled out as Rangers searched for a fourth goal but the Ibrox players would be more than happy with their day's work.
For Hearts, whoever the new manager will be has a huge job on his hands with few players on the day showing anything like their true form.
This was a thoroughly professional performance from Rangers, with Morelos once again putting in a fair shift and being amply rewarded with his two goals.
Kent was another that caught the eye with his pace and trickery, but the award must go to Jack. The midfielder is learning from one of the best in the world in manager Gerrard and will be a key asset in the weeks and months to come.
Referee:John BeatonAttendance:49,310
Home TeamRangersAway TeamHeartsPossessionHome61%Away39%ShotsHome23Away5Shots on TargetHome10Away2CornersHome11Away3FoulsHome12Away15
Posted at
Match ends, Rangers 3, Heart of Midlothian 0.
Posted at 90'+3'
Second Half ends, Rangers 3, Heart of Midlothian 0.
Posted at 90'+3'
Attempt missed. Jermain Defoe (Rangers) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the right is high and wide to the right.
Posted at 90'+2'
Attempt blocked. Joe Aribo (Rangers) left footed shot from very close range is blocked.
Posted at 90'+1'
Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Sean Clare.
Posted at 89'
Attempt saved. Scott Arfield (Rangers) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Posted at 88'
Attempt saved. Jermain Defoe (Rangers) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Posted at 87'
Jermain Defoe (Rangers) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Posted at 87'
Foul by Jermain Defoe (Rangers).
Posted at 87'
Aaron Hickey (Heart of Midlothian) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Posted at 85'
Alfredo Morelos (Rangers) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Posted at 85'
Foul by Andrew Irving (Heart of Midlothian).
Posted at 82'
Substitution, Rangers. Jermain Defoe replaces Sheyi Ojo.
Posted at 82'
Glen Kamara (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 82'
Foul by Andrew Irving (Heart of Midlothian).
Posted at 79'
Foul by Alfredo Morelos (Rangers).
Posted at 79'
Christophe Berra (Heart of Midlothian) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 77'
Uche Ikpeazu (Heart of Midlothian) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 77'
Foul by Steven Davis (Rangers).
Posted at 77'
Substitution, Rangers. Scott Arfield replaces Ryan Jack.
Posted at 74'
Attempt blocked. Connor Goldson (Rangers) header from the centre of the box is blocked.
Posted at 74'
Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Aaron Hickey.
Posted at 74'
Attempt blocked. Alfredo Morelos (Rangers) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Posted at 73'
Attempt missed. Ryotaro Meshino (Heart of Midlothian) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left.
Posted at 71'
Craig Wighton (Heart of Midlothian) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Posted at 71'
Sheyi Ojo (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 71'
Foul by Craig Wighton (Heart of Midlothian).
Posted at 71'
Attempt missed. Alfredo Morelos (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is too high following a corner.
Posted at 70'
Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Christophe Berra.
Posted at 68'
Steven Naismith (Heart of Midlothian) is shown the yellow card.
Posted at 68'
Ryan Jack (Rangers) is shown the yellow card.
Posted at 67'
Foul by Connor Goldson (Rangers).
Posted at 67'
Steven Naismith (Heart of Midlothian) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 66'
Substitution, Rangers. Joe Aribo replaces Ryan Kent.
Posted at 66'
Attempt missed. Sheyi Ojo (Rangers) left footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left.
Posted at 64'
Attempt saved. Uche Ikpeazu (Heart of Midlothian) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Posted at 64'
Foul by James Tavernier (Rangers).
Posted at 64'
Aidan White (Heart of Midlothian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 62'
Goal! Rangers 3, Heart of Midlothian 0. Alfredo Morelos (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Ryan Kent with a cross.
Posted at 61'
Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Christophe Berra.
Show more updatesgoal
