
# Fortnite glitch means players are getting formal warnings just for watching the game

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:05:44+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/fortnite-glitch-means-players-getting-20830999)

Earlier this week, Fortnite hit the headlines after it banned a British teen from the game for cheating.
Now, a glitch in Fortnite has been discovered that’s led to many players receiving formal warnings for simply watching games.
The issue is with the ‘spectate game in progress’ mode, which allows players to simply watch the game, rather than actually  play.
Bizarrely, players in this mode have been receiving behaviour warnings for ‘teaming’ - the practice of working together in a game.
The warning reads: "Behaviour Warning. Due to your recent actions you have been warned for Teaming. Please refrain from repeat offenses or you may receive an account ban."
 
The reason for this glitch remains unclear, although Epic Games claims that it is ‘going to address this as quickly as possible.’
While these false warnings are no doubt quite irritating, many players have received compensation, in the form of 1,000 V-Bucks.
According to Kotaku, that’s more than enough to buy the Season 2 Battle pass - jackpot!
The glitch comes shortly after YouTuber Jarvis Kaye was banned from Fortnite for cheating.
Jarvis, known as FaZe Jarvis, broadcast a video of him using ‘aimbots’ - a tactic that is banned on Fortnite - to his two million YouTube subscribers.
Epic Games, the developer behind Fortnite, immediately banned Jarvis from the game, sparking a fierce debate of whether cheating should result in a permanent ban.
