
# UK to freeze in coldest November in nine years as -4C hits Guy Fawkes night

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:53:55+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, Alistair Grant, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/uk-freeze-coldest-november-nine-20808804)

This year's Bonfire Night is expected to be the coldest in almost a decade as a winter chill takes hold.
After a weekend characterised by fearsome winds in the south and south west and clouds heavy with rain, temperatures are set to plummet.
Firework fans are advised to wrap up warm on Tuesday, which could be the coldest Guy Fawkes Night in a decade as the mercury falls to a low of -4C.
The 'Scandinavian shiver' is due to start tomorrow evening and then continue through much of November.
For large parts of the UK the daytime maximum will be between 6 and 8C from Wednesday, with nights falling to -2C tomorrow night to -4C by the weekend.
Computer forecast models point to this November being the coldest since 2010, The Weather Outlook reported.
 
Met Office forecaster Luke Miall said: "A much colder spell of weather arrives as cold air sinks down from Scandinavia and the Arctic from Tuesday.
“Wrap up warm for Bonfire Night and wear wellies. After recent rain, there's the risk of cancellations for events using parking on grass.
“Tuesday night looks dry but frosty, with -2C lows in Scotland, with cold nights in the South as well later in the week and -4C possible.
“Daytime temperatures will struggle to 6-8C for many this week, with midweek showers cold enough for snow in Scotland and to lower levels on Shetland, with 50mph gusts forecast in the South-West.
“The pool of cold air stays with us and it looks like remaining on the cold side from the weekend onwards.”
The chilly forecast follows this morning's warning that lots of rain is on the way.
 
At the start of Monday the Met Office issued a weather warning for east Scotland, predicting up to 60mm of rainfall in places.
The alert started at midnight and will be in force until 11.59pm tonight, with forecasters raising the prospect of flooding.
Met Office meteorologist Marco Petagna said temperatures are set to drop this week, with snow possible in Scotland on Thursday.
 
He added: "There's a chance of snow on the mountains in Scotland on Thursday and possibly Friday.
"It will be close to freezing on the mountains. On Thursday, it will generally be between 7 and 10C (maximum).
"On Wednesday and Thursday night it will dip below freezing (in parts of the UK).
"Temperatures are falling this week. It's been fairly mild recently."
 
The cold snap follows on from a fearsomely windy weekend.
A fierce storm hounded the lower parts of the country on Saturday morning, prompting the Met Office to issue a severe weather warning.
Dozens of trees were felled in Cornwall and Devon by winds an independent weather station recorded as hitting 113mph, Cornwall Live reported.
Kernow Weather Team claimed Illogan in Cornwall was buffeted by the ferocious gusts this morning.
Nick Hughes, who lives on a boat off Plymouth, said he recorded wind speeds of 64knots at 6.30am this morning, which according to the Beaufort Scale is hurricane-force.
"I woke up at 5.30am this morning because my boat was nudging the pontoon," Nick, who has lived on boats for 11 years, said.
"When I checked the wind speed it was 64.4knots. It was actually slightly higher at one point.
"I've never known it to be this bad."
