
# Alaska Airlines Cuts Back Loyalty Partnership With Qantas

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Grant Martin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/grantmartin/2019/11/03/alaska-airlines-cuts-back-loyalty-partnership-with-qantas/)

Seattle-based Alaska Airlines is slashing the frequent flyer miles that its travelers earn when flying on Australian flag carrier Qantas. Starting on January 1st 2020, passengers who fly on Qantas and credit frequent flyer miles to Alaska Airlines may earn up to 75% fewer miles than they did prior to the cutoff.Several points blogs starting with Loyalty Lobby picked up on the changes on November 1st after Alaska Airlines changed its website.
Right now, all passengers flying on Qantas and crediting to Alaska’s Mileage Plan loyalty program earn at least 1 frequent flyer mile for every mile flown on the Australian carrier (bonuses are in place for premium cabins). In January of next year, however, deeply discounted economy fares will only earn 1 mile for every 4 flown – a cut of 75% – while mainstream economy fares will earn 1 miles for every 2 flown. Alaska’s top three economy fares (ostensibly, its most expensive) will continue to earn 1 mile for every actual mile flown.
Alaska’s move follows a rather eventful several months for partnerships at the carrier. Early in October, Alaska and American, once bedfellows, announced that they would no longer allow for miles to be spent to book each other’s flights. That news came after the two carriers in 2017 announced major loyalty cuts to the partnership.
In stride, American and Qantas have become quite close. After fighting several years for the approval of a joint venture, in July the two carriers finally received permission to conduct business together. Through the third quarter of 2019, the two carriers have officially launched a handful of co-operated flights while new loyalty ties are now being forged.
Alaska, meanwhile, seems to content to move forward without the help of American or Qantas (indeed, when Alaska and American announced the cutback in loyalty ties in October, both acknowledged that many flights inside of each respective network overlapped with a partner flight). Instead, Alaska seems to be focusing on using its partners to expand its geographical reach. In May, for example, Alaska launched a partnership with El Al, the flag carrier of Israel, while it’s also now possible to redeem Alaska miles to fly on Singapore Airlines.
In the grand scheme of things, the partnership between Qantas and Alaska probably wasn’t the crown jewel in either carrier’s collection. But for those still keen on earning a few miles on Alaska when flying Qantas, at least part of the relationship is still in tact.
