
# 'Spectacular' crews helped filmmakers endure Alberta's wild climes during production of Robin Wright's off-the-grid survival drama, Land

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:17:01+00:00**

Author: **Eric Volmers**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/entertainment/movies/spectacular-crews-helped-filmmakers-endure-albertas-wild-climes-during-production-of-robin-wrights-off-the-grid-survival-drama-land)

Facing 100 km/h winds and two massive dumps of snow, production of actress Robin Wright’s directorial debut Land was shut down three times atop Moose Mountain in Kananaskis.
The experience was an affirmation of a policy that veteran producer Allyn Stewart follows for every project she works on.
“Wherever I work in the world, I always, always, always work with local crews,” said Stewart. “Everybody was so professional and they knew when it was time to say ‘OK, this is not safe, we’re getting out of here.’ The resiliency of our crew in Calgary was spectacular. I can’t even imagine if I had brought a crew from somewhere else. Every environment is unique and you guys have epic beauty and epic weather.”
While producers also scouted Utah and B.C., she said the Calgary area had “the beauty and the power that we needed.”
The backdrop helped flesh out the narrative of Land, which recently wrapped after a two-month shoot in Calgary, Didsbury, and Kananaskis. Most of the action was captured on Moose Mountain for the survival drama, which also stars Wright as a Chicago lawyer who decides to go off the grid and survive in the wilds of Wyoming.
“Our choice of coming there and building our set in such a rough environment was on purpose and it really did suit us,” Stewart said. “In the end, we got everything we needed.”
The film, which is set for a fall 2020 release, is based on an original screenplay by Jesse Chatham and  Liz Hannah. Stewart and fellow producer Leah Holzer took the script to Baltimore when Wright was still working on House of Cards, the Netflix political drama that netted the actress a Golden Globe Award. Both producers had been impressed with Wright’s talents behind the camera on the series.
“I just noticed that the episodes I liked most in House of Cards were directed by her,” Stewart said. “Not only that, she directs herself so incredibly well and that is really hard to do. I felt incredibly lucky that she wanted to do it.”
Wright is the star of films such as Forrest Gump and The Princess Bride and, most recently, Wonder Woman and Blade Runner 2049. While Land is her feature debut as a director, she also appears in every scene of the film.
“It’s about surviving in nature,” Stewart says. “She lived through this movie to make it. We were surviving out there.”
Wright plays Edee Mathis, a woman devastated by a family tragedy who decides to live in “the middle of nowhere,” Stewart says.
“She finds herself and is resurrected by the power and beauty of nature and during that time she meets somebody who is a guide and lives on the land,” Stewart says. “But it really is about nature as healer and nature challenges her to survive. She digs deep and finds the will to survive again in spite of having lost her family.”
Land co-stars Oscar nominee Damian Bichir. Chad Oakes and Mike Frislev, of Calgary’s Nomadic Films, are executive producers.
Stewart produced Clint Eastwood’s 2016 drama Sully with Tom Hanks. She was also a senior executive at Warner Brothers during the 1980s and oversaw the production of hit films such as Driving Miss Daisy and Dangerous Liaisons. She said she hopes to bring other film projects to Alberta and said she was shocked by changes to the film incentives introduced last week in the provincial budget by Jason Kenney’s United Conservative Party. The government changed the screen-based production grant to a tax credit, but also lowered the yearly cap for that tax credit. Industry insiders fear this will mean much fewer productions coming to Alberta.
“I feel like it’s a stabilizing future for your economy,” Stewart says. “I had three days after we wrapped on the ground just talking to everybody. Obviously, everybody was stunned. I’m stunned because the city is so film-friendly.”
