
# Warren defends ‘Medicare-for-all’ math, as funding plan faces bipartisan fire

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:28:38+00:00**

Author: **Alex Pappas**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/warren-defends-medicare-for-all-math-as-funding-plan-faces-bipartisan-fire)

Democratic presidential candidate Elizabeth Warren defended her "Medicare-for-all" proposal Friday in the face of deep bipartisan skepticism, after her campaign released a detailed plan that claimed middle-class taxes would not have to rise in order to pay for the nearly $52 trillion plan.
That plan includes roughly $20 trillion in new federal spending over the next decade but claims the money can come largely from taxes on employers, financial transactions, the ultra-wealthy and large corporations.
“It’s all fully paid for by asking the top 1 percent and giant corporations to pay a fair share,” Warren told reporters while campaigning in Des Moines, Iowa, on Friday. “I believe in an America where we can have a government that isn’t just working better and better for those at the top, but a government that’s working for all of us. And 'Medicare-for-all' is a part of that.”

        
          HOW BIG IS $52 TRILLION? PUTTING WARREN’S 'MEDICARE-FOR-ALL' PLAN IN PERSPECTIVE
        
      
Fox News on Friday first published details of the Warren campaign’s health care plan. The campaign insists it would not lead to higher taxes for middle-class families, but rather would be funded through a host of new tax increases.
The $52 trillion figure includes existing health care spending as well as new federal spending.
But Democratic and Republican rivals pounced, expressing doubt over the math.
"The mathematical gymnastics in this plan are all geared towards hiding a simple truth from voters: it's impossible to pay for 'Medicare-for-All' without middle-class tax increases," Democratic presidential primary rival Joe Biden’s deputy campaign manager Kate Bedingfield said in a statement.
Biden himself slammed Warren’s numbers in a Friday interview with PBS. “She’s making it up,” he said.
