
# Arsene Wenger responds to speculation linking ex-Arsenal boss with Bayern Munich job

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:39:00+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsene-wenger-responds-speculation-linking-20818307)

Former Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has sensationally thrown his hat into the ring to become the new Bayern Munich manager.
The 70-year-old won three Premier League titles — including in 2003-04 when his 'Invincibles' went unbeaten for an entire season — and seven FA Cups during his time as Gunners' boss.
The legendary Frenchman ultimately saw his 22-year reign come to an emotional conclusion at the end of the 2017/18 campaign, and was replaced by Spanish boss Unai Emery.
He has remained out of managerial work since but has now hinted that he is ready for a stunning return to the dugout with German giants Bayern, who sacked Niko Kovac over the weekend.
When asked whether it is a job that interests him, the French replied: "Of course.
"Coaching is what was my whole life until now. Everybody who has coached will tell you the same. You miss the intensity but some things you miss a lot, some things you don't miss. I enjoy the things I don't miss too much...
"But on the other hand, football games, winning football games, preparing the team for the game, and getting satisfaction and shared emotions. That is something that you miss.
"So of course, yes. I was responsible from 33 years of age and I coached until 69 without interuption. And at a top level.
"It's 36 years without stopping. Even if I miss it, to get out of that pressure for a year was not too bad for me. People who know me well say I'm more relaxed - and it's true."
Bayern parted company with coach Kovac last weekend after 18 months in charge.
A statement on the club website said the decision was by mutual agreement, with the Bundesliga champions down in fourth place having lost 5-1 to Eintracht Frankfurt on Saturday.
Kovac, a former Bayern midfielder, led the side to the league and cup double in May, becoming the first man to achieve the feat as a player and manager.
Former Manchester United and Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho, also out of work, is currently the bookies favourite to take charge at the Allianz Arena.
