
# Hima Das and Dutee Chand leave KBC audience teary-eyed as host Amitabh Bachchan lightens up mood with reference to ‘Bengali’ wife Jaya Bachchan

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:56:59+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/hima-das-and-dutee-chand-leave-kbc-audience-teary-eyed-as-host-amitabh-bachchan-lightens-up-mood-with-reference-to-bengali-wife-jaya-bachchan/271155/)

Bollywood megastar Amitabh Bachchan on Friday welcomed Dutee Chand and Hima Das, the two golden girls of Indian sports, on his quiz show. The two champion athletes were accompanied by former India cricketer Virender Sehwag. There were plenty of occasions when the heart-wrenching stories of the two athletes’ struggle left the audience in tears. However, as the show started, Bachchan once again made a reference to his wife Jaya Bachchan as he unsuccessfully attempted to strike a conversation with Hima in Bengali.
Bachchan said, “Hima Das ji, kaimon? Bhalo to? Bangla bujhen? (How are you? Good? Do you understand Bengali?)”
Hima replied, “Yes I do.” Bachchan then explained that he could speak Bengali ektu, ektu  (a little bit). “Little bit I know, I don’t know much because one Bengali is in my house also,” Bollywood megastar replied while referring to his wife Jaya Bachchan.
Bachchan making a reference to his Bengali wife Jaya Bachchan left the two golden girls in splits. Hima told Bachchan that there was a lot of similarity between Bengali and Assamese, her mother tongue. Not too long ago, Bachchan had left the audience in splits after he pretended to not like the praise for his daughter-in-law’s eyes from one contestant.
The KBC host also informed the star athletes on Friday night that they ‘must realise how the country is proud of their achievement.’ “We become very excited when you two win,” he added.
Hima Das told Bachchan that the day she won the historic gold medal at the world championship, she called up her Dad to inform him that she had become the world champion. To which her father said that it was too late in the night in India and advised her to sleep. “He said we will speak in the morning,” Hima’s father told her.
Hima’s father had not quite understood the magnitude of his daughter’s success. The next morning, Hima added, when her father went to sell vegetables, he saw a long traffic jam due to the presence of media persons. The crowds stretched to several hundred meters. It was at this time when her father realised Hima’s achievement was indeed big.
Dutee said that she did not have quality food to eat during her growing up period adding that she would often gate crash people’s wedding so that she could eat nutritious food.
Both Hima and Dutee won Rs 12.50 lakh on the show.
 
