
# Heroin addict given an 18-month sentence

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/05/news/heroin-addict-sentenced-1756212/)

A man who was caught with heroin in Belfast after getting off a bus from Dublin has been given an 18-month sentence.
Nerijius Kazlauskas, who turns 49 tomorrow and whose address was given as HMP Maghaberry, was told his sentence was split between nine months in custody and nine months on licence.
Due to time already served, the Lithuanian national is due to be released from prison this week.
Belfast Crown Court heard that Kazlauskas and a second man were stopped getting off a bus from Dublin at Glengall Street bus station on the evening of October 21 last year.
Both men were searched, and around eight grams of heroin was found in the lining of Kazlauskas's coat. The pair were also found to be in possession of Xanax tablets.
Crown prosecutor Rosemary Walsh confirmed the second man has not been sentenced yet and will be appearing in court at a later date.
She also said that when arrested and charged with importing drugs, Kazlauskas told police he was a regular drug user, and made the case he only met his co-accused on the return journey from Dublin to Belfast.
Defence barrister Gavyn Cairns said that when arrested, Kazlauskas co-operated fully and "answered all questions."
Describing the amount of drugs seized as "a relatively small quantity", Mr Cairns said Kazlauskas was "adamant" they were for his personal use.
Mr Cairns said that when his sentence is served, Kazlauskas "will return to his Motherland."
Kazlauskas admitted two charging of importing drugs and one charge of possessing drugs, with Judge Stephen Fowler granting a destruction order for the drugs seized.
Sentencing Kazlauskas, the Judge said: "You came up on the bus from Dublin with wraps of heroin and Xanax tablets. It's quite clear you are a drug addict."
Regarding the importation element, Judge Fowler said he accepted "the reason the drugs were being brought in was for his own personal use."
