
# Man City's preparations for Liverpool could have hardly gone worse in Atalanta draw

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:43:49+00:00**

Author: **David McDonnell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-mcdonnell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-citys-preparations-liverpool-could-20829111)

As preparations for the biggest game of the season go, things could not have gone much worse for Manchester City.
Pep Guardiola had hoped to seal progress to the last 16, with two games to spare, before Sunday's trip to Premier League leaders and title rivals Liverpool.
Instead, City dropped their first points of this Champions League campaign, may have lost goalkeeper Ederson for the Anfield trip and had his replacement, Claudio Bravo, sent off.
Ederson went off at half-time, replaced by Claudio Bravo, who lacks the same assurance between the posts and was picking the ball out of his own net four minutes after coming on.
Worse was to come nine minutes from time, when Bravo was shown a straight red for bringing down Atalanta's Josip Ilicic, after he slipped the ball past him in a one-on-one.
Bravo's rush of blood to the head and red card may have left City down to 10 men, but of more concern to Guardiola will be the potential loss of Ederson for Sunday.
With Guardiola already missing David Silva, Aymeric Laporte, Rodri and Leroy Sane, the loss of his first-choice keeper could deliver a fatal blow to his hopes of a third straight title.
City ended with defender Kyle Walker between the posts and, by the end of a frantic last 10 minutes, were just happy to escape with a point and now turn their attention to Liverpool.
It had all started so well for City, with no hint of the frantic drama that was to unfold and potentially have huge ramifications for the rest of their season.
Bernardo slid the ball in to Gabriel Jesus, who executed a back-heel into the path of Raheem Sterling, who produced an assured finish for his 18th goal in 20 games for club and country.
City were in control, then VAR entered the equation, not once, but twice, just before the break. Sterling was pulled back by Rafael Toloi, with referee Aleksei Kulbakov initially awarding a penalty.
But VAR over-ruled his original decision, with the foul committed just outside the box. But from the resulting free-kick, City were awarded a penalty, thanks to VAR.
Sterling's free-kick hit the outstretched arm of Josip Ilicic, the 43rd-minute spot-kick given after ref Kulbakov went to check the touchline VAR monitor for himself.
Jesus stepped up to take the resulting penalty, but scuffed his effort wide of the goal, wasting a chance to effectively wrap up the game before half-time
Guardiola's side were dealt a significant blow at half-time, with Ederson's enforced withdrawal and the introduction of the hapless Bravo.
Within four minutes of the restart, Atalanta were level. Alejandro Gomez's fine cross was met by Mario Pasalic, who was able to plant a free header beyond Bravo.
The goal scrambled City's collective brains and, for a few mad minutes, it looked as though the hosts might grab a second, as Guardiola's side lost their heads.
With the game opening up and City lacking their earlier control, Guardiola cut a frustrated figure on the touchline, throwing his arms up in dismay at his side's shortcomings.
Then came Bravo's red card. There could be no arguing with the dismissal, with Walker replacing Bravo in goal, with City thankful for the final whistle and respite from the late chaos.
