
# Top Scots comic Gary Faulds backs the Advertiser's Christmas Toy Appeal

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Leona Greenan, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/leona-greenan/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/top-scots-comic-gary-faulds-20766006)

Top Scots comic Gary Faulds is backing the Advertiser’s annual Christmas toy appeal – and is urging others to get involved and make a donation.
The comedian, of Strathaven, this week took time out of his busy schedule to throw his weight behind our bid to provide new toys and gifts to underprivileged children across Lanarkshire.
Speaking to the Advertiser this week Gary said he’s “100 per cent behind the campaign” and is urging not only our readers but also his fans and supporters to help.
He said: “This campaign is absolutely incredible and the Advertiser staff, along with the local branch of the Salvation Army, work tirelessly to ensure this appeal is a huge success.
“I am 100 per cent behind this appeal and as well as making my donation to this very worthwhile cause, I urge others out there to do the same for needy children across our county, who otherwise will receive very little or nothing at all this Christmas.”
Whilst donations have already started to trickle in, hundreds more are still needed. The toys or gifts must be brand new and can include cars, games, baby dolls, footballs, action figures, gift sets, toiletry sets, make-up, clothing, nightwear and winter woolies.
Cash donations or gift vouchers, of any value, are also warmly welcomed.
We are also appealing to Lanarkshire’s businesses to get behind us by asking members of staff if they can help with a little donation – whether it be a stocking filler or pocket money toy, or an unwanted new unused toy from your home.
Gifts are required for children from newborn to 18-years-old. We also require wrapping paper, sticky tape and batteries for the toys.
For the last four years we have worked with our friends at the Salvation Army’s Hamilton branch, who kindly act as a drop-off point, as well as helping with the mammoth task of organising, sorting and distributing the goodies to South Lanarkshire Council‘s social work team by mid-December to ensure the children receive their gifts on Christmas Day.
Advertiser reporter Leona Greenan, who co-ordinates the appeal said: “Previous appeals have benefited more than 800 county children with gifts of toys, gift vouchers and treats galore, all gifted by generous Advertiser readers.
“A huge thank you to those who have already been in touch to pledge your help and of course to the wonderful Gary Faulds for backing our appeal.”
If you would like to help, please contact Leona for more information by emailing her at leona.greenan@reachplc.com or by calling her on 01698 205179 (Monday to Wednesday).
You can also hand your donations in to the Salvation Army, Burnblea Street, Hamilton, weekdays from 10am to 12pm.
If you are in the Larkhall and surrounding area we have a drop-off point also at Happy Feet Nursery on Claude Street.
