
# Atlanta Hawks Let Black Jerseys Dominate Peach Aesthetic With 2019-20 City Uniforms

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Demetrius Bell**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/demetriusbell/2019/11/01/atlanta-hawks-let-black-jerseys-dominate-peach-aesthetic-with-2019-20-city-uniforms/)

The current NBA season may be underway but it wouldn’t be shocking if Atlanta Hawks fans already have their eyes on the future. The team appears to have a bright future and the uniforms appear to be set for a big revamp after the 2019-20 season. However, the new look for 2020-21 doesn’t mean that the Hawks won’t have new alternate uniforms for this season. This is the NBA, which means that every team will have some new alternate looks to wear – regardless of whether or not a new set of primary uniforms are on the way next season. So this means that even with the new look on the horizon for 2020-21, the Hawks are still going to roll out a City uniform and a Classic uniform as well. Atlanta recently unveiled the former of the two uniforms and it is absolutely a look that is rooted in local flavor.
The most interesting part of this uniform is the phrase “PEACHTREE” being emblazoned across the middle of the jersey. Anybody who has spent a decent amount of time in Atlanta can tell you about the myriad of streets, roads and avenues across the city that inexplicably share the name of Peachtree. There is a strong chance that even if you’ve just visited the town, you’ve been on or near a Peachtree street. So as far as local inspiration goes, this uniform is full of it.
However, the unique name across the jersey is unfortunately the strongest part of the uniform. You would think that a uniform that is inspired by peaches would use a color scheme that is dominated by the color peach. Inexplicably, the primary color used for the jersey wasn’t peach, white or even green like the leaf that’s on the accompanying basketball peach logo that’s on the alternate court (more on that, later). Instead, they went with a black uniform.
While black (or something close to black like Georgia Granite Gray) is part of the Hawks color scheme, you’d think that if it had a place on a uniform where the centerpiece of the identity was supposed to be peaches then it would used as a secondary or even tertiary color. Instead, black is front and center and it turns what should have been a vibrant and truly unique uniform into just another uniform that blends into the rest of the NBA uniform landscape with the use of black.
The aforementioned court also has plenty of black, but there’s enough peach involved to where it’s clearly different from what you’ll see on a normal night at State Farm Arena. You’ll also see the basketball peach logo that I mentioned earlier splitting the “ATLANTA HAWKS” script logo running across each baseline.
The free throw lanes and the Hawks logo at center court are dominated with peach, which looks great and is probably what should have happened with the uniforms. If that was the case, then this uniform would have had the potential to be one of the more aesthetically-pleasing uniforms that you would see across the NBA and also a prime example of what these City uniforms should be all about when it comes to creativity. Instead, this is a bit of a missed opportunity and it’ll be interesting to see if both Nike and the Hawks go back to the drawing board with a peach-inspired uniform in the future.
