
# Save $140 When You Bundle The Ring Video Doorbell 2 & Echo Show 5

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:56:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/black-friday-sale-ring-video-doorbell-2-echo-show-5-deal)

Amazon is shaving $140 off of the regular price of the Ring Video Doorbell 2 and the Echo Show 5, when they are bundled together. That means that you are getting the Ring Video Doorbell 2 cheaper than it is normally, and the Echo Show 5 is free. Now that's a pretty good deal.
The Ring Video Doorbell 2 is a really good doorbell to install outside your home. It's going to allow you to see who's at your door, whether they want you to know or not.
This is actually going to be very helpful with the holiday shopping season upon us. As that means that Amazon package thieves are also out and about. And with the Ring Video Doorbell 2, you'll be able to catch them red-handed.
Advertisement
Ring Video Doorbell 2 will ring on your smartphone and any other Echo device in your home. That includes the Echo Show 5. That's going to allow you to talk to whoever is at the door, from your Echo Show 5, without needing to pull out your phone. Because, yes, the Ring Video Doorbell 2 does have two-way audio as well.
With the Echo Show 5, you've got Alexa built-in, which is great for watching videos, catching up on the news and much more. With a display, Alexa can be a lot more helpful, as it can actually show you the weather conditions and the weather for the next few days, instead of just the high and low for the day. That's definitely a very helpful feature to have available. Not to mention the fact that you can do video calls with your friends and family too.
This bundle of the Ring Video Doorbell 2 and Echo Show 5 is not going to last long, so you're going to want to grab it before it's gone. And you can pick it up from Amazon by clicking here.
Advertisement

        Ring Video Doorbell 2 & Echo Show 5 - Amazon - $149
      
