
# Man's fury at concrete falling on his plush new cafe

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Carl Eve**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/mans-fury-concrete-falling-plush-3492820)

A cafe and ice-cream parlour owner who only recently moved into a plush new waterfront location says unexpected building work - and falling materials - is killing his business.
Keith Stephens, who owns and runs the Ocean City Coffee Shop on Pier Street with his wife, said that since July when he moved into the ground floor spot on the luxurious Rivage apartment block, business had been booming.
But in recent weeks the scaffolding which encased the £4.5m building has unexpectedly returned and items - including slaps of stone, wood and other items - have fallen onto the ground just inches from the front door of his family-run cafe.
He said: "We've got objects falling down constantly and it's dangerous. The scaffolding and netting isn't attractive and hides us away. I'm losing three to four thousand pounds a week in business since the scaffolding went up.
"I've been asking for a reduction in rent and talking to building control, but we've heard nothing."
Keith, who has had ice cream vans on the Hoe, Central Park and Jennycliff for years, along with a popular burger van in Sherwell Arcade, said he had attempted to contact the owners but was left speaking to what he described as "an insolvency company".
Nick Edwards, of RSM Restructuring Advisory, told Plymouth Live the firm behind the block of flats - Pier Street Ltd - was "in administration" and the work being carried out was in accordance with the original planning applilcation.
He said the work being carried out was "cosmetic rather then structural", saying the "colonade needs to be finished" and a "small amount of Plymouth limestone cladding" needed adding.
He said the scaffolding was up to protect the building and to tile the wall surface "you need to chip off a little bit of concrete".
He added: "For the last two years it's been covered in plaster. The work being done now is to bring it into line with the original planning application".
He said he was unable to comment on the issues suffered by Mr Stephens and noted that the work on the outside of the building had slowed down due to the recent poor weather, but hoped it would be completed within the next few weeks.
Set directly on Plymouth's waterfront the development provides 14 apartments retailing between £400k to £1.3m, with the penthouse apartment enjoying a private rooftop swimming pool.
Mr Edwards, a Restructuring Advisory Director at RSM UK said most of the flats within the building have now been sold with just "two or three flats left".
He said Pier Street Ltd owns the freehold and was responsible for the final pieces of work being carried out.
Mr Edwards said that once the last flats are sold "then the freehold will be sold".
In November 2017 Plymouth Live reported on how Plymouth City Council issued a temporary stop notice after claiming developers were using the wrong materials.
At the time council chiefs said the developers - Rivage Estates - had breached planning stipulations by using concrete instead of Plymouth limestone, as was approved by planners.
It also said a canopy/balcony is not being constructed in accordance with agreed plans.
The council said it noticed the discrepancies only when wrapping came down revealing the building's facade.
At the time Lawrence Butler of Devington Homes - described as the parent company developing the luxury suite of flats - told Plymouth Live: "The architects and I are liaising with Plymouth City Council regarding the limestone and polished concrete colonade and we will submit a planning application for material change shortly.
"There is little difference in the materials, excepting the new material is more robust, so no issues are expected."
Mr Stephens said the legal wrangles over who now owns the building, who is responsible for the work and what it will finally look like is of little consequence to him, his staff and his customers.
He said: "We weren't made aware this was going to happen. My business is suffering while we look like a building site. We're trying to encourage people to come in and have a nice snack or coffee and there's all this around us.
"It seems like every day we're either arrive to find items have fallen off the building or the scaffolding - or it happens while the cafe is open.
"It it's very worrying for me, my staff and my customers because you wonder if someone will get hit. And worst of all no-one seems to want to take responsibility for any of it."
