
# Why Mashaba May Not Face Downs... Again

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/siyagobhoza/chippa-united-duo-doubtful-for-mamelodi-sundowns-clash/666446)

Mzikayise Mashaba – the former Mamelodi Sundowns defender currently on course to revive his career with Chippa United – could be unavailable to face his former teammates from Chloorkop this weekend. 

        Read: 
        
          Pirates’ New Star Chiefs Might Have To Worry About 
        
      
Chippa are finalising their preparations to host Sundowns in their Telkom Knockout quarter-final match at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Sunday, and word coming out of the Eastern Cape outfit’s camp is that Mashaba is struggling with an injury.
Mashaba was instrumental in helping the Chilli Boys overcome Bloemfontein Celtic in the previous round of the competition. 

        Read: Amid Controversial Refereeing, Crucial Decision Awaits… 
      
The 30-year-old versatile player had been without a club for almost two years, before he surfaced at Chippa this season, and has looked impressive with his performances. 
Earlier in the season, when Chippa drew 1-1 with Downs in the league, Mashaba didn't play as he was an unused substitute for ex-Chilli Boys' coach Clinton Larsen.   
Meanwhile, it has also been confirmed from the Port Elizabeth club that former Orlando Pirates star Thabo Rakhale has also been struggling with an injury.
Both players missed the team's most recent Absa Premiership match – the 2-0 loss against Highlands Park last weekend.
