
# Mindset Matters: How To Practice Mindful Spending

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **U.S. Bank**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/usbank/2019/11/01/mindset-matters-how-to-practice-mindful-spending/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2810740173&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

From one-click online shopping to mobile wallets, paying for goods and services has never been easier. Unfortunately, the conveniences we love can also lead to an “out-of-sight, out-of-mind" mentality to money management. The good news: With a little mindfulness (you know, the same approach you take with your eating and self-care regime?), you can stay on-track with your spending and budgeting habits.

        Track your spending
      
Start by making a budget, if you don’t have one already, then make a habit of reviewing all your transactions on a regular basis (weekly, monthly – whatever works best for you). This will allow you to monitor where you’re overspending so you can make adjustments – $10 a day for lunch delivery adds up! For some assistance with this task, download the new U.S. Bank mobile app, which has a Money Mentorship feature that analyzes spending habits and helps you better understand where your money is going.

        Disable one-click buying
      
Some online retailers implemented one-click buying to combat shopping-cart abandonment. It’s super-convenient when you want to order in a flash, but can also lead to impulse purchases. Remove the temptation to tap by deactivating one-click purchasing in your account settings. And if you’re prone to phone shopping, delete any offending apps altogether. 

        Use cash
      
Thanks to credit and debit cards – and digital payment platforms like Apple Pay and Google Pay – cash isn’t always king. In fact, a U.S. Bank Cash Behavior Study found that 50 percent of survey respondents carry cash less than half the time. Buck the trend and stop at an ATM before your next shopping trip. By withdrawing only what you need, you’ll be less likely to overspend. If you can leave your debit and credit cards at home, even better.

        Make a list
      
Before your weekly errands, make a list of everything you need – and stick to it. This will keep you from mindlessly browsing and prevent unnecessary items from finding their way into your cart.

        Designate guilt-free spending money
      
Mindful spending doesn’t mean depriving yourself of all “fun” purchases – you work hard for that money, after all. Set aside a chunk, after bills and other mandatory expenses, that can be used for whatever you’d like. It may be helpful to open a separate checking account to better compartmentalize guilt-free spending money from your savings.          

        Pause before purchasing
      
You’ve no doubt heard the phrase “sleep on it” before making a big decision. The same advice can be applied to significant purchases. Rather than handing over your credit card in the heat of the moment, step back for a couple days to really think about the purchase. Ask yourself these questions: 
In the end, maybe the purchase is still worth it, or perhaps you’ll realize you don’t need it after all. Either way, putting some thought into the decision may help you feel better about the outcome.

        Find an accountability partner
      
Whether it’s a spouse, best friend or sibling, identify a person you trust to discuss your financial wellness journey. Simply sharing your goal of practicing mindful spending habits may help keep you on track. It’ll also give you someone to call to dissuade you from unnecessary purchases.

        Evaluate what’s important to you
      
Purchasing that new TV or the latest smartphone may give you an instant dose of gratification, but will it contribute to your happiness in the long run? If the answer is no, that money could probably be spent, or saved, more wisely elsewhere. To curb unnecessary spending, think about what is important to you, such as saving for a house, a bucket-list trip to Europe, or a weekly or monthly self-care routine.
