
# ‘Go Low, Jolo’ wins again

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:05:29+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/02/go-low-jolo-wins-again/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
Story & photos by Bobbet Bruce
Jolo Magcalayo won the Men’s Division at the fourth Menpora Emeralda International Amateur Golf Cup 2019 last October 24 to 26, 2019, at the Emeralda Golf Park in West Java, Indonesia.
Nicknamed “Go Low, Jolo” at the championships, the 17-year-old high-school junior from De La Salle-Zobel scorched the very tough course as he posted a three round total 12 under par 204 (69-69-66) to run away with an 11-stroke lead to bring home the crown.
Jolo went out of the gate with guns blazing as he opened the competition with an eagle birdie combo on the first two holes en route to a five under par front nine. This would cushion his two over par back nine to finish three under 69 and two strokes ahead of the second placed golfer from Myanmar.
He would go three under 69 again on the second day with his bogey free front 9 spiked by back-to-back birdie on the 5th and 6th holes combining with his one under par back nine to stay five strokes ahead of his closest pursuers.
Magcalayo would then put on a show on the last day. Going bogey free in the first 13 holes, Jolo birdied holes number 1, 4, 7, 12 and 13 before running into his first and only bogey in hole 14. He would then finish with a flurry scoring an eagle on the par 5 hole 17 to complete round with a six under par 66, an almost unheard of tournament score in the very tough course.
“I am very happy, of course, with my win. I came here to represent the Philippines well and thankful that I was able to make the most of the opportunities” said Magcalayo, who is preparing to play in the US in three weeks. He added, “My game is almost there already. I need to work on my irons more, but I will be ready for my next events in Thailand and the US.”
Magcalayo, a highly recruited US college recruit and the country’s highest ranked amateur golfer on the World Amateur Golf Rankings (WAGR), showed top-level preparedness as he travels to the US on November 18 to the US to compete in the American Junior Golf Association Rolex Tournament of Champions in Florida. The exclusive invitational event pits the AJGA All-American team members and AJGA tournament champions for 2019.
Magcalayo who won a championship and finished second in three AJGA events last summer will go head-to-head with the best junior golfers in the US in the said event.
He also left this week to play in the 12th Singha Junior World Golf Championship in Hua Hin, Thailand.
Magcalayo had a very successful US summer tour this year as he became the first Filipino qualifier to the US Junior Championship. Placed top 3 in a US Amateur sectional qualifier, won a Jr. PGA sectionals, and broke the first day tournament score and the course tournament scoring record. He also finished second in the 41st North and South Junior Golf Championship in historic Pinehurst, North Carolina.
