
# Archie Roach: 'You can reach the darkest point in our life and come back, and come good'

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:38:14+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Stafford**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2019/nov/06/archie-roach-you-can-reach-the-darkest-point-in-our-life-and-come-back-and-come-good)


        With Indigenous suicide rates at an epidemic level, the songwriter regrets not talking sooner about his own battle with mental health. Telling his story through music, and memoir, has helped him heal• Read more about Guardian Australia’s Unmissable books of 2019
      
For the Gunditjmara people of south-west Victoria, the kneeangar – what white Australians call the wedge-tailed eagle – is the creator of the landscape. For the Bundjalung of north-east New South Wales, it is the gunggayay, or red-bellied black snake.
On the spine of Archie Roach’s memoir, Tell Me Why, the gunggayay encircles the kneeangar, a logo that encapsulates the Indigenous songwriter’s heritage: his Bundjalung father Archie Senior, and his Gunditjmara mother Nellie Austin.
But Roach, who first came to national attention in 1990 with his celebrated song Took the Children Away and accompanying debut album Charcoal Lane, is also the foster son of Alex and Dulcie Cox: Dad Alex and Mum Dulcie, as he calls them.
The Coxes were told that Archie’s birth parents had died in a house fire. In fact, he had been stolen from them in the late 1950s at Framlingham mission, near Warrnambool. “They were used,” Roach, now 63, says when we meet, as he rests in a Sydney hotel room. “They’re blameless, as far as I’m concerned.”
Alex and Dulcie cherished Archie but, he writes, “there was always a restlessness in me, like a faultline waiting to rupture”. When he was 15, he received a letter from a hitherto unknown sister, Myrtle – one of six siblings – telling him Nellie had died.
The faultline ruptured. Roach writes that before leaving to find his brothers and sisters, Dad Alex – a Glaswegian immigrant who also yearned for his homeland – told him: “Bifay ye leave me and Ma, I jes wanted tae say … Well, we hope ye fin what ye lookin for, Archie.”
He never saw them again.
The title of Tell Me Why – which is being released alongside an album of new songs and re-recorded versions of many of his classics – is both rhetorical and a plea. “It’s trying to come to terms with it happening, rather than denying that it happened or just pushing it aside and thinking, ‘Oh, something happened to me as a kid, but it doesn’t really matter.’
“It was more than that. You want to assure people, or reassure people, that this actually happened. And yourself as well.” Roach frequently slips into the second person, talking about “yourself” when he’s actually referring to himself, preserving a kind of distance.
In his concerts, Roach has taken to introducing Took the Children Away by saying that every time he sings it, he lets a little bit of pain go. One day, he says, that pain will be gone and he will be free.
