
# Diablo Immortal Has Basically Turned Into Diablo 3 on a Phone

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:50:42+00:00**

Author: **Alex Walker**

Original: [Kotaku UK](https://www.kotaku.co.uk/2019/11/04/diablo-immortal-has-basically-turned-into-diablo-3-on-a-phone)

You'd be forgiven for thinking that Diablo Immortal had vanished from Blizzard's lineup entirely. The game went from being the closing mention last year to being inconspicuously absent during this year's opening keynote, and it doesn't even have a separate listing on Blizzard's official press site, instead being nested within the Diablo 4 assets.
And that lack of separation makes sense given its early days for the mobile Diablo. The game has no release date. The monetisation is still up in the air, and there's still questions on how the shared player experiences will function. But one thing is clear: Immortal draws so much inspiration from Diablo 3 that it almost plays like a clone.
I had a lot of fun with the Switch port of Diablo 3, primarily because the stakes were so low. That's a weird thing to say for a Diablo game, and yet it was a perfect fit for Nintendo's handheld console. Flicking the right stick to roll everywhere, wandering into dungeons and slapping everything around with a bunch of CC abilities and AOE spells that the Switch just barely handled: it was a great way to unwind, and it worked super well in offline mode, whether you were on a plane, the train or the loo.
That casual nature doesn't really jive with the grim, gothic roots of the original Diablo games, of course. But if you're on the go and you're probably playing without sound, it's not a problem. And it's the experience that Diablo Immortal reminds me of, even down to the visual styling and moment-to-moment combat.
You start out on a small dinghy, being ferried over to Wortham where you've heard the undead are on the rise. You're quickly introduced to basic attacks and abilities, and then you're given a fairly large map — think a space the size of Diablo 3's Fields of Misery — to wander around for 15 minutes.
The level looks like something ripped straight out of that first Diablo 3 act, too. The colour palette has a lot of soft blacks, dark blues and greys, with most of the brightness and contrast dedicated towards the player abilities and animations. It's a necessity given that Immortal has to assume most people are playing on a screen barely bigger than five inches. But there's a degree of comfort to it as well. By echoing more of Diablo 3's look, Immortal feels more like a true Diablo game by extension, which certainly doesn't hurt.
This year's Blizzcon demo is timed, running for long enough to hit at least level 6 while typing notes on a laptop. You can get further if you're determined though: I finished one run with the Barbarian (whose abilities are more about crowd control and pulling creatures in than raw damage) halfway to level 9.
Most abilities handle in a manner identical to how you'd aim them on the Switch. The virtual right-side buttons function like a second joystick to give you finer control over placement and aim, but you can execute them in the direction you're facing with a single tap.
Irrespective of what class you're playing — I tried out the Demon Hunter, Wizard and Barbarian, having played the Monk last year — most of the abilities will have a large focus on AOE and crowd control. That's akin to how Diablo 3 plays out as well, with the main challenge around positioning and space rather than the threat of individual enemies or bosses. You're never worried about going into a one-on-one fight. It's managing the massive numbers that are the bigger problem, although the difficulty of the Immortal build meant dying was never a serious concern.
