
# Gary Lineker upsets Arsenal fans with cheeky European football jibe on Twitter

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:48:33+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/gary-lineker-upsets-arsenal-fans-20825923)

Gary Lineker has taken a cheeky jibe at Arsenal ahead of their clash with Vitoria.
The Gunners tackle the Portuguese side in the Europa League at the bizarre time of 3.50pm on a Wednesday - rather than the traditional Thursday schedule for the second rate European competition.
Wednesday is, of course, usually a day reserved for Champions League matches - with Manchester City and Tottenham both in action latter in the evening.
Arsenal haven't qualified for the Champions League for the past three season, having previously gone 18 years in a row in the premium domestic tournament.
As a result, Lineker has taken a cheap shot at the north London side on social media.
Lineker tweeted: "See Arsenal are playing today. A Wednesday game in Europe: such nostalgia."
The reason the game is taking place a day before the other Europa League fixtures is due to the location of the fixture.
Vitoria's stadium is located just 15 miles away from local rivals Braga, who host Besiktas on Thursday, and Portuguese police have forbidden two teams from the same region playing on the same night because of the strain it puts on their available resources.
In addition to moving the game to Wednesday, the fixture will kick-off at the earlier time of 3.50pm GMT because UEFA have insisted that it doesn't clash with the eight Champions League games being played on the same evening, the first of which get underway at 5.50pm GMT.
Meanwhile, Michael Owen has made a prediction for Vitoria vs Arsenal.
He said: "Two late Nicolas Pepe free kicks kept the points in London in the reverse fixture two weeks ago and Arsenal are taken to maintain their perfect record in the group stages out in Portugal.
"Vitoria are unbeaten in their three games against English opposition on home soil, while the Gunners have only won one of their six previous visits to Portugal, but I still feel Unai Emery’s side will take all three points and confirm their place in the last 32 of a competition they reached the final of last season."
