
# Kenyans attain global CFA Charter as demand for investment professionals grows

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:26:30+00:00**

Author: **CORRESPONDENT**

Original: [Capital Business](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/business/2019/11/kenyans-attain-global-cfa-charter-as-demand-for-investment-professionals-grows/)

 

        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 7 – Rising demand for Professionals in the investments industry has fueled demand for attainment of professional credentials from the global financial analyst’s body- Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts (CFA).
      
ADVERTISEMENT

        According to the CFA East Africa president Patricia Kiwanuka, there has been a big demand for investment managers and financial analysts from investment companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment banks, research analysts, financial advisors and risk managers among others.
      
Speaking during this year’s CFA charter holder’s gala in Nairobi, Kiwanuka urged students especially those in BCOM and BBS Financial Economics and BBS Finance to pursue the CFA exams/courses.
The CFA Charter is the most recognized and respected investment management designation in the world.
“There are numerous opportunities both locally and internationally for any individual who is a CFA charter holder. One can work anywhere in the world as finance and investment professional, own a private wealth management firm or become a consultant on investment matters,” Kiwanukasaid.
CFA has three levels. Level I and Level II have ten units. These units are: Ethics, Financial Reporting and Analysis, Quantitative Methods, Economics, Corporate Finance, Equities, Fixed Income, Alternative Investments, derivatives and portfolio management. The chartered financial analysts awarded 48 charters to investment professionals across east Africa this year.
“Attaining the CFA charter means passing all the requirements of attaining a charter which include passing all three levels of CFA exams as this provides a strong foundation of advanced investment analysis and real world management skills”, said Kiwanuka.
