
# Man has firework rocket launched from his backside in dangerous stunt

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:14:40+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/man-firework-rocket-launched-backside-20812823)

A man was caught on camera launching a firework rocket from his backside in a dangerous stunt. 
Safety experts slammed the reckless behaviour after footage circulated on Twitter .
The video shows another man lighting a firework held in the other's bottom.
As the fuse is burning, sparks appear to melt his top, with a friend shouting 'it's burned up your back, your t-shirt's wrecked'.
When the main charge ignites, the man sprints forward and desperately throws his arms back to knock the pyrotechnic away.
It appears the firework burned his backside as it launched.
The rocket then explodes on the ground after the man successfully hits it off him.
It's not known when or where the clip was filmed but a man off camera can be heard speaking in a Scottish accent.
The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents told The Sun : “It doesn’t take a bright spark to know not to toy with fireworks.
“Historically, around 1,000 people visit A&E for treatment of a firework-related injury in the four weeks around Bonfire Night.
“We recommend families enjoy fireworks at an organised display and follow the Firework Code, which can be found on our website.”
The clip appears to have been posted on Twitter by a Swedish user, who captioned the post: "Remember remember the 5th of November by doing stupid s*** like this."
Several Twitter users blasted the man for his behaviour, with one commenting: "Again.. proof as to why women live longer than men."
Another added: "Probably wouldn’t quite have killed him but could easily have blown a massive chunk of his back off."
