
# Spanking ineffective, leads to worse behavior in children: Study

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bailey Vogt**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/1/spanking-ineffective-punishment-leads-worse-behavi/)

Spanking children as a form of discipline will inspire more bad behavior, a new study based on 50 years of research found.
The University of Texas at Austin and the University of Michigan conducted a  joint study of more than 160,000 children and found that spanking was less likely to lead to good behaviors and more likely to cause anti-social behavior, aggression and cognitive difficulties.
“Spanking increases the likelihood of a wide variety of undesired outcomes for children. Spanking thus does the opposite of what parents usually want it to do,” said Dr. Andrew Gorgan-Kaylor, a University of Michigan researcher with a doctorate in philosophy in social welfare, an NBC News affiliate in Charlotte  reported.
While family science experts differentiated spanking from child abuse, they found the effects of the trauma were basically the same.
Spanking has become a less popular form of punishment in the U.S. over the years, with the University of New Hampshire reporting only 37% of parents use the disciplinary technique.
Around the world, however, UNICEF reports that 80% of households spank their children.
 

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
