
# Easyjet launches sale on over 200,000 seats with prices starting from £3.99

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:31:17+00:00**

Author: **Linda Howard**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/travel/easyjet-launches-sale-over-200000-20806583)

Easyjet has launched a huge sale ahead of Black Friday.
The budget airline company is offering deals on over 200,000 seats with prices starting from just £3.99 for a one-way flight from Inverness to London.
There are currently 14 destinations available from Glasgow departing between November 18, 2019 and February 29, 2020.
There are currently 32 destinations available from Edinburgh departing between November 18, 2019 and February 29, 2020.
There are currently 2 destinations available from Aberdeen departing between November 18, 2019 and February 29, 2020.
 
There are currently 3 destinations available from Inverness departing between November 18, 2019 and February 29, 2020.
Alongside last-minute offers, discounts can also be found on weekend breaks, winter breaks and escapes to the sun.
You can find a full list of all of their available deals on the Easyjet website here.
Easyjet flight deals are available from the following 18 destinations across the UK: Aberdeen, Belfast International, Birmingham, Bournemouth, Bristol, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Inverness, Isle of Man, Jersey, Liverpool, London Gatwick, London Luton, London Southend, London Stansted, Manchester, Newcastle and Southampton.
If you're taking advantage of any of these Easyjet flight deals, you can also find the latest prices on hotels and Airbnb's across Europe here.
