
# Football transfer rumours: Emmanuel Dennis to Leicester City?

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:12:52+00:00**

Author: **Barry Glendenning**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/07/football-transfer-rumours-emmanuel-dennis-to-leicester-city)


        Today’s tell-all is quantum, baby
      
Not content with all the praise being lavished on his exciting Leicester side as they chase a top-four finish, Brendan Rodgers is hoping to earn even more by bringing in several January recruits. Emmanuel Dennis is a 21-year-old striker currently plying his trade at Belgian outfit Club Brugge and made headlines by scoring a brace against Real Madrid at the Bernabéu just over a month ago. Rodgers is an admirer and hopes to bring him to the Premier League. Real Sociedad central defender Diego Llorente is also inching his way across the Leicester radar, while Tottenham and West Ham are also in the race to secure the £45m-rated 26-year-old’s scrawl.
Wolfsburg striker Wout Weghorst is wanted by Crystal Palace, who are finding goals hard to come by despite their position in the top half of the table. Averaging less than a goal per game, Jordan Ayew is currently their top scorer with three, while Christian Benteke has scored just twice for his club since April 2018.
With the future of Granit Xhaka at Arsenal in doubt following all that recent unpleasantness, AC Milan could offer the Swiss international a fresh start, if reports from Italy are to be believed. Stripped of the captaincy by Unai Emery, Xhaka has stopped short of apologising for his angry reaction to being jeered, scapegoated and bullied by the entitled masses at the Emirates while being subbed off during his most recent appearance for the club.
Increasingly surplus to requirements at Chelsea due to the emergence of various prominent members of Lampard Youth, the days of old-timers Pedro, Marcos Alonso and Olivier Giroud at Stamford Bridge are looking numbered. Turkish side Fenerbahçe are interested in taking Pedro, who has also attracted interest from the Chinese Super League. Giroud, who has made no secret of his displeasure at the lack of first team action he’s been given this season, is understood to have admirers at Crystal Palace and West Ham, but could also make a triumphant return to France. Following his half-time withdrawal against Ajax, who targeted him with great success on Tuesday night, Alonso could also find himself looking for new employers, not least because Emerson has finally returned from the treatment room after six weeks out.
Manchester United are keeping tabs on Burnley midfielder Dwight McNeil, who they had on their books as a kid only to let him go when he was 14. Having watched the midfielder develop into one of the Premier League’s most exciting homegrown talents under Sean Dyche, they will have to pay the thick end of £40m to bring him back to Old Trafford.
And finally, the delightful prospect of seeing Arséne Wenger gadding about in Lederhosen and a Tyrolean hat while supping frothy lager from a stein seems increasingly less preposterous, following reports that Bayern Munich are ready to offer the 70-year-old their vacant manager’s job until the end of the season.
With Niko Kovac having been unceremoniously ushered through the door marked “Ausfahrt”, the Sun says the German champions have made an approach to Wenger, although The Athletic’s Raphael Honigstein claims the former Arsenal manager is not on the club’s shortlist of potential replacements. Wenger, for his part, says he would very much like to be considered.
