
# Watch: Priyanka Chopra channels her inner Elsa in empowering new ‘Frozen 2’ Hindi promo

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:06:01+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/watch-priyanka-chopra-channels-her-inner-elsa-in-empowering-new-frozen-2-hindi-promo/articleshow/71849483.cms)

Why be a Disney Princess when you can be Queen? Priyanka Chopra transformed into the powerful and much-loved character Elsa, in the new and inspiring Hindi promo of the upcoming film ‘Frozen 2’.
Donning a shimmery icy-blue gown, PeeCee brought a personal touch to the film’s promo by first bringing focus on her tattoo ‘Daddy’s lil girl’ followed by her crowning moment as Miss World. Apart from giving us a peek at some new footage of the upcoming animated feature, the clip packs quite the punch with its empowering dialogues.
“We don’t need a King to become a Queen, we pave our own path, in our unique ways,” she says in the promo that not only holds true for her own rise superstardom but also her on-screen character.
She goes on to add, “We no longer want to be a part of someone’s story as we write our own. The world is changing. And so are the stories.”
This clip only goes to show how perfectly she fits the part of Elsa, with cousin sister Parineeti Chopra joining her to voice her on-screen sister, Anna.
Priyanka shared the clip with a caption that read, “An inspiring, heart-warming story of changing the world and creating your own destiny...join our sisterhood with Elsa and Anna #Frozen2 in cinemas November 22.”
Directed by Jennifer Lee and Chris Buck, 'Frozen 2' is a sequel to the much loved 'Frozen' which had broken all box office records in 2013. The original English version will be voiced by Idina Menzel as Elsa and Kristen Bell as Anna.
