
# Michael Hutchence's daughter 'lives simple life' in Australia after missing out on £16m fortune

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:14:53+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/michael-hutchences-daughter-lives-simple-20801176)

Michael Hutchence's daughter Tiger Lily, 23, who was left a pittance from her father's £16million estate, is living a simple life in Perth, Australia, according to reports.
Tiger Lily, real name is Heavenly Hiraani Tiger Lily Hutchence Geldof, was tipped to inherit millions when she came of age at 21.
However, when INXS rock star Hutchence died in November 1997, his family were told he was virtually penniless.
Despite an estimated worth of £16 million, the managers of his estate said any cash left in Hutchence's account was minimal - and had been swallowed up by a £295,000 Greenpeace donation in his will.
They also said that his property portfolio, which he'd long talked about, wasn't actually his to sell or bequeath, leaving relatives with virtually nothing. Including Tiger Lily.
Now, Tiger Lily's aunt Tina Hutchence, Hutchence's eldest sister, who has not seen her niece for over 18 years, has told that Tiger is living down under for a simpler and cheaper life.
"Tiger lives a simple life and does not crave material things," she told Mail On Sunday .
"She lives a hippy lifestyle, she is a bohemian, just like her father, " Tina shared.
Tina, who is set to release a book next year, also told the publication that her and the family "feel swindled."
She added: "My brother worked with INXS for 20 years and he wanted to leave money for his daughter and family but none of us have seen a penny."
Hutchence shared Tiger with and TV ­presenter Paula Yates.
The couple famously began their romance when she interviewed him in flirty fashion on her bed on Channel 4’s Big Breakfast show in January 1995.
Tiger Lily was born 18 months later.
However, she was just 16-months-old when her father was found dead in a hotel room, and was four when her mother, Paula Yates, lost her life to an overdose, with Tiger Lilly in the house at the time.
Then, on the cusp of her 18th birthday, she became tangled-up in a bitter family feud between her adoptive father, Bob Geldof, and her real father’s family in Australia.
She then suffered more loss when her half-sister, Peaches Geldof, died of an overdose in April 2014.
