
# Benni Looking For Next Step Overseas?

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/siyagobhoza/benni-mccarthy-s-next-job-may-not-be-in-south-africa/666719)

Following his shock departure from Cape Town City on Sunday night, Benni McCarthy may look elsewhere for the next step in his coaching career as he seeks to expand his horizons.

        Read: Chiefs Youth Bag Six In League Climax
      
McCarthy, 41, joined City in 2017 as a replacement for Eric Tinkler in the Mother City, taking them to fifth place in his debut campaign after his head coaching career got off to a fine start with victory in the MTN8 just a few months after his arrival with the Citizens. 
Now though, rather than looking for another job in the Absa Premiership, the Siya crew has been led to believe that Bafana Bafana’s all-time top scorer is keen to return to Europe, a move that could be beneficial on a personal level as well as on a professional one.
It is thought that the former Ajax, Celta Vigo and Porto man is potentially eyeing a move to Scotland as a favoured destination, and there could be an opportunity or two opening up after Hearts recently parted ways with manager, Craig Levein, in Edinburgh. 
McCarthy, who recently became a father again, is based in the Scottish capital where his family lives, and any changes that are made in the Scottish Premier League in the coming weeks could open up the chance for the ex-Blackburn Rovers man to get his foot in the door.
Having previously been linked with the job at St. Mirren, the South African is known to the Scottish football fraternity, while he also spent some time with Glasgow Celtic on the way to obtaining his UEFA Pro Licence. 

        Read: Chiefs’ Challengers Applauded For ‘Massive’ Effort
      
Fans will be eager to see what lies ahead for the Bafana legend as he plots his career course following his exit from the Western Cape, and it’s been a while since a South African has coached abroad at a top level. 

        Post Selfie’s On Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now 
      
