
# Ewaan launches special buffets from around the world in Dubai

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:40:00+00:00**

Author: **Time Out Dubai staff**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/news/421542-ewaan-launches-special-buffets-from-around-the-world-in-dubai)

With a buzzing atmosphere, spectacular views of the Burj Khalifa from its terrace and dishes not to be missed out on, there are plenty of reason to head to Palace Downtown Dubai’s Ewaan.But now there’s a reason every night.The swish Middle Eastern restaurant has launched a fantastic selection of specially-themed nights from around the world, taking you from the streets of India to a step back to a traditional Middle Eastern time.Taking place every night from 7pm until 11.30pm, diners can expect regal arches, wooden trellises and luxurious drapery each night. All you need to do is choose what exquisite cuisine from around the globe you want.Take your pick from the nights below. It’s time to tuck in…International NightsNot sure what kind of cuisine you’re up for? Don’t fret, as you can take your pickings from a buffet filled with quality international dishes from Saturdays to Mondays. From Live cooking stations to a show kitchen whipping up tasty treats, there’s nothing like a buffet boasting cuisine from around the world.From Dhs240. Every Sat-Mon, 7pm-11.30pm.Indian NightFor a celebration of street food delicacies from around the cities of India, Tuesdays are the nights for you. Ewaan’s Indian night boasts a selection of exotic spices, aromas and flavours to take guests straight to the streets of India – all with unique street style carts, lamps and artwork. Curry, anyone?From Dhs240. Every Tue, 7pm-11.30pm.Arabic NightA signature blend of Arabic and Oriental cuisine, traditional tunes, views overlooking the magnificent Palace Gardens – sounds like Wednesday night dinner plans have been made. Take a step back in time to experience the Middle East like never before, with a buffet featuring a signature blend of Arabic and oriental cuisine. A sure treat from the Middle East awaits…From Dhs240. Every Wed, 7pm-11.30pm.Thursday Night BrunchIf you’re looking for a stellar way to kick off your weekend, Ewaan’s Thursday night brunch will do just the trick. With an array of live culinary stations to pick from, foodies can expect flavours from the region, Asia and beyond.From Dhs295 per person. Every Thu, 7pm-11.30pm.Seafood NightWho doesn’t want to dip into a culinary underwater adventure through the seven seas? Sindbad would be jealous. Seafood night every Friday will offer a selection of fresh seafood dishes, from fresh catches of the day, your pick of shell fish and brilliant crustacean dishes.From Dhs265. Every Fri, 7pm-11.30pm.Any of the above pique your interest? Of course they have. For more information or to book yourself a seat, be sure to call 04 888 3444.Daily 7pm-11.30pm. Palace Downtown Dubai, Downtown Dubai (04 888 3444).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
