
# MC Mong speaks up regarding T.O.P controversy, congratulates Taeyeon on 1st place, & more via Instagram post

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:21:00+00:00**

Author: **beansss**

Original: [allkpop](https://www.allkpop.com/article/2019/11/mc-mong-speaks-up-regarding-top-controversy-congratulates-taeyeon-on-1st-place-more-via-instagram-post)

On November 2, rapper/producer MC Mong took to Instagram to refute various controversies and rumors online from the past week, in light of his return to the music scene with his 8th full album. 
Previously in 2010, MC Mong became under fire for allegedly "dodging" his mandatory military service duties. The rapper was accused of undergoing numerous teeth extractions in order to receive exemption from military service, resulting in a police investigation and legal trial. During his legal trial in 2011, the court ruled that his dentist had advised extraction of at least a portion of his teeth due to health issues, and therefore the rapper was not guilty of purposely avoiding his military service. However, the rapper did receive probation sentence for failing to properly apply for extensions regarding his mandatory service summons. 
Then, after the release of his 8th full album 'Channel8', MC Mong faced criticism from netizens as some accused him of dissing Big Bang's T.O.P in his song "Fame". Others also looked on MC Mong's album release falling too closely around the same time frame as Taeyeon's comeback, resulting in the two artists battling for 1st place on various charts. 
In his Instagram post, MC Mong wrote:
The post has allegedly been deleted from MC Mong's Instagram, some time after posting. 
