
# Ming-Na Wen’s Assassin Revealed In The Mandalorian’s New Trailer

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:28:50+00:00**

Author: **Robert Workman**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/470988-ming-na-wens-assassin-revealed-in-the-mandalorians-new-trailer)

A new trailer for The Mandalorian has appeared, and with it, there’s confirmation of the character Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. star Ming-Na Wen will play in the series. In the trailer, there’s a closer look at Fennec Shand, an assassin who comes across Pedro Pascal’s Mandalorian. Their conversation isn’t followed in full, but she does have a memorable line: “Your name will be legendary.”
Wen explained the origins of the character while speaking to Vanity Fair. 
“We got our inspiration from the name. The idea of a fennec fox came to mind. She’s tricky, and yet she’s able to maneuver and survive, and be stealthy — so very graceful and agile. I just love that whole image with the name…Thinking that she’s a mercenary, [her loyalty] can go either way. I think it remains to be seen…She is definitely someone who’s loyal to herself.”
The new trailer also confirms Nick Nolte’s role in the series. He voices the unnamed pilot character revealed in The Mandalorian’s posters . We also get another look at Taika Waititi’s IG-88 character, and a classic Stormtrooper Scout on a speeder bike, straight out of Return of the Jedi. The trailer is below.
The Mandalorian makes its debut on Disney+ on November 12.
What do you think about the first look at Ming-Na Wen’s character in the show? Let us know in the comments below!

        Recommended Reading: 
        
          Ultimate Star Wars, New Edition: The Definitive Guide to the Star Wars Universe
        
      
