
# Arsene Wenger 'to be offered Bayern Munich job' until end of the season

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:54:36+00:00**

Author: **Gareth Bicknell**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsene-wenger-to-offered-bayern-20829538)

Arsene Wenger is reportedly set to be offered the Bayern Munich job for the rest of the season - and would face a mouthwatering match-up against Tottenham .
Former Arsenal boss Wenger is believed to be Bayern's top target for the vacant manager's job as the Bundesliga club look to replace sacked Niko Kovac.
And the 70-year-old is understood to be open to taking the job , having been out of club management since leaving the Gunners in 2018.
If Wenger does take charge at Bayern, he will face a tantalising Champions League clash against Arsenal's rivals Tottenham at the Allianz Arena on December 11, when Mauricio Pochettino's men will be looking to avenge last month's 7-2 thrashing at the hands of the reigning Bundesliga champions.
Bayern are currently fourth in the Bundesliga, and entertain second-placed Borussia Dortmund in a huge clash on Saturday.
And Wenger is set for discussions with Bayern chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge after that game, with the German giants ready to offer him a short-term deal, according to the Sun .
He would also have the chance to stake a claim for a permanent position, with Bayern set to decide whether to offer Wenger a longer contract in the summer or scour the market for a younger coach.
Frenchman Wenger, who speaks fluent German, was close to landing the Bayern job last season during a poor run of form for the German club, but Kovac turned things around.
However, Kovac was sacked this week after a 5-1 defeat to Eintracht Frankfurt proved to be the final straw.
Bayern are also believed to be interested in PSG boss Thomas Tuche and Erik ten Hag of Ajax as long-term targets while Max Allegri and Jose Mourinho have been linked.
Wenger, who earned £8m-a-year at Arsenal, has not hidden his desire to return to management and that is the reason why he has stalled on an offer from FIFA to become their new technical director.
Now the chance to return to management with Bayern would be hard to turn down for Wenger, who still lives in London and has been doing regular TV work for beIN Sports.
The closest Wenger has come to a return to management was with Japanese club Vissel Kobe this summer, but the two parties could not agree on a start date.
Bayern are currently four points behind Bundesliga leaders Borussia Monchengladbach, and one behind second-placed Dortmund.
