
# Russian firm refutes allegations levelled by Pakistan's petroleum ministry

Published at: **2019-11-01T03:32:38+00:00**

Author: **News Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2091055/2-russian-firm-refutes-allegations-levelled-pakistans-petroleum-ministry/)

Influential persons saddled in the Ministry of Petroleum and its subsidiaries have started hatching conspiracies to get the North South Gas Pipeline project shelved.
An unnecessary objection has been raised against TMK, a Russian enterprise recognised as a high-quality and high-standard company in the US, UK and all over the world.
No ban of any nature has been slapped on this Russian company anywhere across the world.
However, officials of the petroleum ministry and its subsidiaries have enacted a drama of ban on the company to serve their personal interests so that they could harvest kickbacks by awarding the contract to their blue eyed company.
According to information received from credible sources, a bilateral agreement was signed between Pakistan and Russia for the completion of North South Gas Pipeline in Pakistan and the Russian government had agreed to cover 100% of the cost of the project.
However, the Ministry of Petroleum and its subsidiary ISGS are determined to thwart this project.
Officials in the Ministry of Petroleum have raised objection to TMK, claiming that the US has slapped restrictions on this company, therefore, the company is not authorised to complete the North South Gas Pipeline.
However, the management of the Russian company has refuted the allegations levelled by the Ministry of Petroleum against it.
Company sources have said that the company is working with Saudi Arabia’s largest oil company Aramco on completing joint ventures and the Saudi government has raised no objection over it.
Crucial talks would be held between the Ministry of Petroleum and authorities in December 2019 to make final decisions on the project.
Ministry of Petroleum did not agree to give any explanation on this matter.

        Published in The Express Tribune, November 1st, 2019.
      
