
# Enter this giveaway for your chance to win a $1K credit to the airline of your choice

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:42+00:00**

Author: **Boing Boing&#39;s Shop**

Original: [Boing Boing](https://boingboing.net/2019/11/06/enter-this-giveaway-for-your-c.html)

Being home for the holidays is great, but it's nice to know you've got a vacation waiting just around the corner. Impossible with all those gift expenses? Not so. Right now, you can enter for a chance to win a $1000 gift certificate to the airline of your choice. Entry is free, so you've got nothing to lose.
And hey, now that we've got you excited about impending travel plans, here are a few other deals that are the next best thing to free: Deep discounts on some innovative and essential vacation gear, from carry-on bags to support pillows.

        Twist Memory Foam Travel Pillow
      
Got neck or back problems that keep you from sleeping on flights or buses? This pillow can target them no matter where they are. The memory foam cushion bends into whatever shape you need to support your head, spine or shoulders.

        
          Sale Price: $19.99
        
      

        MSRP: $24.99
      

        ALPAKA Shift Pack
      
Whether you're an urban commuter or mountaineer, the ALPAKA aims to be your go-to bag. It's got dedicated compartments for smartphones and laptops, plus quick-access pockets for cash or cards built into the straps. And with a waterproof, rolltop configuration, they'll all be well protected even on the longest hikes.

        
          Sale Price: $189.00
        
      

        MSRP:$249.00
      

        Dr. Save Vacuum Travel Kit
      
This kit includes an air pump and four bags that will do more than just save you space. Pop in your clothes or other soft goods and the vacuum seal will reduce their volume by as much as 70%, allowing you to even take that bulky comforter on your next trip. And with no air to feed it, there's no odor or mold for dirty clothes.

        Sale Price: $39.99
      
MSRP: $69.95

        BESTEK Portable International Travel Voltage Converter
      
Never worry about power wherever you are. This voltage converter allows you to connect to outlets in the EU, United Kingdom, US or Australia with no hassle.

        
          Sale Price: $34.99
        
      

        MSRP: $59.99
      

        EndlessID® Smart Luggage & Backpack Tag
      
Say goodbye to lost luggage. This simple tag is a lifesaving bit of insurance for frequent travelers. You can track any pack with this tag on an NFC-enabled device, and even activate a medical ID function to give paramedics your info in case you can't communicate.

        
          Sale Price: $16.99
        
      

        MSRP: $19.99
      

        Genius Pack Compression Packing Cubes Set
      
Pack smart with these cubes. The mesh material stretches to fit everything you need neatly inside, and they're designed to fit snugly in most suitcases.

        
          Sale Price: $39.99
        
      

        MSRP: $78.00
      

        Travel Tote Crossbody Carry-On Bag with Shoulder Strap
      
Your new overnight bag is not just built strong, it's built smart. The front pocket makes it easy to access important papers, and the padded shoulder strap makes carrying extra easy. It's the perfect size for overhead compartments, too.

        
          Sale Price: $24.99
        
      

        MSRP: $39.00
      

        2-in-1 Eye Mask & Neck Support Travel Pillow
      
This double-duty pillow is a godsend for light sleepers. The plush microbead makeup of the pillow is made to soothe even the stiffest necks, and there's an eye mask with straps built right into the sides in case you really need to shut out the crowd.

        Sale Price: $14.99
      
MSRP: $19.00

        TUO: The Ultimate Travel Organizer
      
No matter how well you pack a suitcase, the smallest items end up making the biggest mess. Nip that in the bud with this foldout organizer and its zippered compartments that make it easy to find and store underwear, socks or other delicates.

        
          Sale Price: $39.99
        
      

        MSRP: $49.50
      
