
# Kilmarnock defender Stuart Findlay facing up to three months on sidelines

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:15:59+00:00**

Author: **Lochlin Highet, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/lochlin-highet/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/kilmarnock-defender-stuart-findlay-facing-20818174)

Angelo Alessio could be without Stuart Findlay for up to three months, the Kilmarnock Standard can exclusively reveal.
The Italian boss has been facing a defensive crisis as Kilmarnock headed to Aberdeen with all four centre-backs unavailable.
He hopes to have Dario Del Fabro back along with Alex Bruce who has completed his suspension, Connor Johnson is unlikely to be fit due to a knee injury.
Injured midfielder Mohamed El Makrini should be available for selection as he returned to training on Tuesday.
But now the gaffer is coming to terms with the extended loss of his star centre-back Findlay due to a hamstring tendon injury.
He told the Standard: “Stuart’s is a bad injury, he will be out for a long time.
 
“I don’t expect to have him available before Christmas or the New Year, it’s a serious injury.
“I think he will be out for two or three months.”
He added: “I was disappointed with the result against Aberdeen, we will be working on the mistakes in training.
“It was tough without and natural centre-backs, but we will address it anyway so that it doesn’t happen again.
“I hope to have two of my centre-backs available, Bruce will be back and I hope that Del Fabro will too.
“Connor Johnson probably won’t be available as his knee injury has stopped him from training. He will have a scan this week.
Alessio is getting his side prepared for a clash against Hamilton as he hopes to avenge their league defeat earlier this season.
The Lanarkshire side ran out 2-0 victors on the second day of the season, before Killie knocked them out of the Betfred Cup a week later.
But Alessio won’t be taking Brian Rice’s men lightly.
He said: “I always say it, but these games are tough, it’s true.
“Hamilton are a good team, they are compact and they have already beat us.
“We know their style and I expect a hard game, especially when we have players unavailable.
“We are working hard to make sure we are ready to get the win on Saturday.”
