
# Hundreds gather for heartfelt tribute to fallen Meadow Lake paramedic Leigh Schroeder

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:26:49+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Ackerman**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/saskatchewan/hundreds-gather-to-honour-fallen-meadow-lake-paramedic-leigh-schroeder)

A devoutly religious man, it was a comfort to some who knew Leigh Schroeder that prayer was a part of the 28-year-old’s final moments of life.
“When I spoke with Gwen, Leigh’s mother, after his passing I found courage in her words,” said a close friend of Schroeder’s.
Through her tears, she explained that an RCMP officer prayed with her son as he passed away.
“She proclaimed that I will have to pray for others in this way when I am an RCMP officer,” he said. “This is something that I hold onto as I continue with my training.”
A primary care paramedic in Meadow Lake, Schroeder was responding to an EMS call when a truck collided with his ambulance, killing Schroeder on Oct. 25 on an icy road near Beauvel. Two children in the truck were also killed.
“I will always remember Leigh as my silent partner,” said the man who did not identify himself, but was part of a group called “The Brotherhood” — a collection of Schroeder’s closest friends — that paid special tribute to their fallen brother during a memorial service Sunday afternoon.
A processional of first responders, from police to firefighters, helped an EMS Honour Guard bring a ceremonial stretcher out of an ambulance and into the Living Hope Alliance Church where hundreds gathered to pay their respects. Atop a Canadian flag and EMS flag that draped over the stretcher sat a single stethoscope and a handful of other items symbolic of Schroeder’s work.
Family watched from the sidewalk, wiping silent tears from red faces as a light snow fell around them. Inside, EMS members laid roses on the stretcher as mournful notes from a bagpiper filled the cavernous church. When the music stopped and nothing but the electrical buzz of the building could be heard as the family took their place at the front of the church.
“When special people touch our lives they teach us how to live,” said Pastor Kirk Cowman as he welcomed the crowd and said an opening prayer.
Cowman was among a handful of family and close friends who took to the stage to share memories and words about Schroeder. He was remembered as a quiet, stoic man with a heart that yearned to serve others.
Deeply involved in his church, he also spent years participating, volunteering at and eventually serving on the board of the Katepwa Lake Camp. He enjoyed working on his truck and had quite the gun collection.
Mechanically inclined from a young age, Schroeder earned his Journeyman Electrician at SIAST, but switched careers in 2017 when the construction industry went into a downtown. He graduated as a primary care paramedic in June 2018 and was working with the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) EMS in Meadow Lake up until his death.
“Leigh, I saw so much in you that just came naturally,” said his oldest brother Ryan. “You didn’t need an older brother to build up your character. You were born with great character.”
Ryan reminisced about trying to teach his brother how to throw a baseball and eventually drive a stick. Living in different provinces, he said they hadn’t seen enough of each other lately, but he never imagined he wouldn’t have the chance.
“You left this earth much too soon. It is unfair and so hard to understand,” he said, his words choked by tears. “I know my world will never look and feel the same as it did when you were in it.”
Amid the tears, moments of laughter emerged as friends remembered the good times they shared with Schroeder over the years.
He went by the name Wildman 2000 when he signed onto his X-Box and was known for his blonde barbed-wire like hair that never changed year to year. He was the friend who’d go on ski trip with his friends, despite the fact that he didn’t ski or snowboard and he would eat the camp breakfast his friend had burnt, when no one else could stomach it.
“You fools would be the first to go in an apocalypse” another friend recalled him saying one such morning. The room filled with laughter and the love everyone felt for Schroeder seemed to bring a needed moment of peace.
Pastor Cowman recalled a story he’d heard about after Schroeder’s church group got snowed in during a meeting. Without pause, Schroeder was out in the parking lot digging out everyone’s vehicles and what was normally a 20 minute drive home, took hours as he made sure every single person got home safe that night.
“All the good memories of my life have you in them and I can’t quite fathom that those memories are all I have left,” said another friend. “Leigh I loved you like a brother.”
Schroeder’s parents, Gwendolyn and Rudy, thanked everyone who helped organize the service and each person who called and texted with words of support or sent food.
“Our Leigh would have been overwhelmed with your kindness,” said his mother Gwendolyn. “We thank each one here for honouring Leigh with your presence today.”
As she recalled times where words of encouragement helped Leigh follow his dreams, she shared words of encouragement for all grieving his loss.
“As we begin a new chapter in our lives we will not forget Leigh, but we will begin each day opening our hands, our hearts, our lives and our minds again and again — letting love find us, letting grace in,” she said.

        jackerman@postmedia.com
      
