
# Global chip sales seen weak year-on-year, but stable month-on-month

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:54:33+00:00**

Author: **TA Securities**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/global-chip-sales-seen-weak-yearonyear-stable-monthonmonth)

Semiconductor sectorUpgrade to neutral: In September 2019, global semiconductor sales came in at US$35.6 billion (RM147.74 billion) (+3.4% month-on-month [m-o-m]; -14.6% year-on-year [y-o-y]). While the numbers on a y-o-y basis remained weak, that on a m-o-m basis indicated further stabilisation as this marked the third consecutive month of improvement.
That said, we view a downside risk to the trajectory coming from the trade war if the US does not postpone the upcoming round of tariffs expected to be imposed on China’s goods in mid-December. Note that items under the next wave of tariffs include major consumer items like laptops, smartphones and televisions.
Meanwhile, on a quarterly basis, third-quarter 2019 sales grew 8.2% quarter-on-quarter but fell 14.6% y-o-y to US$106.7 billion while year-to-date (YTD), sales are down 14.4% to US$303.1 billion generally due to weaker demand across all major product categories on the back of the trade war, as well as weaker memory demand and pricing. The World Semiconductor Trade Statistics organisation forecasts global semiconductor sales in 2019 to fall 13.3% before resuming growth in 2020.
By geography, all regions grew on a m-o-m basis with most recording accelerated growth and Europe returning to growth. However, on a y-o-y basis, growth across all regions remained in negative territory and this was led by the Americas (-30.4%) and followed by China (-12.9%), Japan (-10%), the Asia-Pacific (all others) (-6.9%) and Europe (-6.4%).
Billings in September 2019 contracted 2.4% m-o-m and 6% y-o-y to US$1.95 billion. While this represented the 11th consecutive month in which growth on a y-o-y basis was in negative territory, the pace of decline moderated further. YTD’s billings are down 19.3% y-o-y to US$17.59 billion generally due to a cutback in investment and weaker end-demand.
We upgrade our stance on the sector from “underweight” to “neutral” in view of the more balanced mix of recommendations under our stock universe. We have a “buy” recommendation on Inari Amertron Bhd (target price [TP]: RM2.17), which we view as a beneficiary of greater commercialisation of 5G, and Unisem (M) Bhd (TP: RM2.75) as we expect the complete closure of its loss-making operations in Batam Island, Indonesia to offload the long-standing drag on earnings. Key downside risks for the sector include a prolonged and heightened trade war as well as weakening of the US dollar. — TA Securities, Nov 4
