
# A Look at JAMstack’s Speed, By the Numbers

Published at: ****

Author: ****

Original: [CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/a-look-at-jamstacks-speed-by-the-numbers/)

Easily manage projects with monday.com
People say JAMstack sites are fast — let’s find out why by looking at real performance metrics! We’ll cover common metrics, like Time to First Byte (TTFB) among others, then compare data across a wide section of sites to see how different ways to slice those sites up compare.
First, I’d like to present a small analysis to provide some background. According to the HTTPArchive metrics report on page loading, users wait an average of 6.7 seconds to see primary content.
If we are talking about engagement with a page (Time to Interactive), users wait even longer. The average time to interactive is 9.3 seconds.
The data above is from lab monitoring and doesn't fully represent real user experience. Real users data based taken from the Chrome User Experience Report (CrUX) shows an even wider picture.
​​I’ll use data aggregated from users who use mobile devices. Specifically, we will use metrics like:
TTFB represents the time browser waits to receive first bytes of the response from server. TTFB takes from 200ms to 1 second for users around the world. It’s a pretty long time to receive the first chunks of the page.
FCP happens after 2.5 seconds for 23% of page views around the world.
FID metrics show how fast web pages respond to user input (e.g. click, scroll, etc.).
CrUX doesn’t have TTI data due to different restrictions, but has FID, which is even better can reflect page interactivity. Over 75% of mobile user experiences have input delay for 50ms and users didn't experience any jank.
You can use the queries below and play with them on this site.
Data from July 2019
BigQuery
CMSs should have become our saviors, helping us build faster sites. But looking at the data, that is not the case. The current state of CMS performance around the world is not so great.
Data from July 2019

        [ { "freq": "1548851", "fast": "0.1951", "avg": "0.4062", "slow": "0.3987" } ]
      
BigQuery
And here are the FCP results:
At least the FID results are a bit better:
Data from July 2019
BigQuery
As you can see, sites built with a CMS perform not much better than the overall performance of sites on web.
You can find performance distribution across different CMSs on this HTTPArchive forum discussion.
E-Commerce websites, a good example of sites that are typically built on a CMS, have really bad stats for page views:
I faced clients who requested support of IE10-IE11 because the traffic from those users represented 1%, which equalled millions of dollars in revenue. Please, calculate your losses in case 1% of users leave immediately and never came back because of bad performance. If users aren’t happy, business will be unhappy, too.
To get more details about how web performance correlates with revenue, check out WPO Stats. It’s a list of case studies from real companies and their success after improving performance.
With JAMstack, developers do as little rendering on the client as possible, instead using server infrastructure for most things. Not to mention, most JAMstack workflows are great at handling deployments, and helping with scalability, among other benefits. Content is stored statically on a static file hosts and provided to the users via CDN.
Read Mathieu Dionne's "New to JAMstack? Everything You Need to Know to Get Started" for a great place to become more familiar with JAMstack.
I had two years of experience working with one of the popular CMSs for e-commerce and we had a lot of problems with deployments, performance, scalability. The team would spend days and fixing them. It’s not what customers want. These are the sorts of big issues JAMstack solves.
Looking at the CrUX data, JAMstack sites performance looks really solid. The following values are based on sites served by Netlify and GitHub. There is some discussion on the HTTPArchive forum where you can participate to make data more accurate.
Here are the results for TTFB:
Data from July 2019
BigQuery
Here's how FCP shook out:
Now let's look at FID:
Data from July 2019
BigQuery
The numbers show the performance of JAMstack sites is the best. The numbers are pretty much the same for mobile and desktop which is even more amazing!
Let me show you a couple of examples from some prominent folks in the industry:
