
# 'If you're not getting in trouble, you're not doing your job right': Tubridy and Kenny recall a 'legend and icon'

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:34:00+00:00**

Author: **By Joe Leogue**

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/ireland/if-youre-not-getting-in-trouble-youre-not-doing-your-job-right-tubridy-and-kenny-recall-a-legend-and-icon-961829.html)

Gay Byrne’s successors on the Late Late Show have reflected on their relationships with the broadcasting icon, and recalled the advice he dispensed to them throughout their career.
Current Late Late host Ryan Tubridy said he hoped the widespread coverage of Mr Byrne’s impact on Irish society will be of comfort to his family, and described his predecessor as “a legend and an icon who was such a critical part of the country's story in the 20th and early 21st century”.
Mr Tubridy told RTÉ Radio 1’s Drivetime of how he was "terrified" telephoning Mr Byrne’s home to ask him for advice after he landed the job as the host of the Rose of Tralee.
“We went to a pub on Leeson Street. I had the pint and he had the Jamie. And he did something which I never forget, which was, as I've always described it since, being like the apprentice meeting the sorcerer, and him taking tricks out of the bag saying, ‘You need to know this’.
“He told me a lot about the machinations of RTÉ which is how to an extent I've survived so long because he gave me a few tips I will only tell you when I'm older, but they were bloody good tips I can tell you,” he said.
Mr Tubridy said he recently met Mr Byrne for tea at a hotel near his home.
