
# Green Bay Packers Vs. Los Angeles Chargers: Who Has The Edge?

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rob Reischel**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/robreischel/2019/11/02/green-bay-packers-vs-los-angeles-chargers-who-has-the-edge/)

When the NFL schedule was released in April, it appeared the Green Bay Packers could run into guillotine facing the AFC West.Kansas City was coming off a 12-win season and was the AFC’s No. 1 seed in 2018. The Los Angeles Chargers won 12 games a year ago, then whipped Baltimore in their playoff opener.
And after productive offseasons, Oakland and Denver appeared much stronger than the previous year.
Of the AFC’s four divisions, the West looked like the strongest. By late Sunday evening, though, Green Bay could be celebrating a clean sweep of the division.
The Packers have already posted wins over Kansas City, Oakland and Denver. Now, Green Bay travels to Los Angeles, where as many as 80% of the spectators inside 25,000-seat Dignity Health Sports Park are expected to be Packers’ fans.
“We’re hearing it could be like another home game,” Packers cornerback Tramon Williams told Conley Media this week. “We know how Green Bay fans travel, and if a lot of them come out to Los Angeles with us, that would be great.”
Here’s a look at each positional group and which team has the edge.

        QUARTERBACKS
      
Green Bay’s Aaron Rodgers is on one of the hottest streaks of his Hall of Fame career. In the last two games, Rodgers has thrown eight touchdowns, no interceptions, completed 75.0% of his passes and has a passer rating of 152.0.
“I'll tell you, he is a handful now,” Chargers coach Anthony Lynn said this week. “He's playing at a high level, he's taking care of the football, he's very efficient with his quick-passing game, shots down the field. His ability to move around and create is very good. Even at this point in his career, he moves around as well as any quarterback in the pocket and he's sticking plays.”
Los Angeles fired offensive coordinator Ken Whisenhunt this week and promoted quarterbacks coach Steve Steichen.
“There was no flow. There was no rhythm,” Lynn said of the Chargers’ offense. “It was time for a change.”
Chargers’ quarterback Philip Rivers has never played in a Super Bowl. But the 37-year-old Rivers is one of the most prolific passers of this era and is a likely Hall of Famer one day.
Rivers ranks sixth all-time in career passing yards (56,971) and is on pace to eclipse 4,000 yards for the 12th time in 13 seasons. Rivers also ranks sixth all-time with 386 touchdown passes.
Rivers, the No. 4 pick in the 2004 draft, has a gunslinger element to his game. But under third-year coach Anthony Lynn, Rivers has taken fewer chances and lowered his interception total in recent years.
ADVANTAGE: Packers

        RUNNING BACKS
      
Both teams have dynamic duos in the backfield.
Green Bay’s Aaron Jones leads the NFL with 11 total touchdowns — eight rushing and three receiving. Jones leads the Packers with 34 receptions for 355 yards (10.4 average) and already has a career-high three receiving touchdowns.
Jones also ranks 14th in the league in rushing yards with 466 and his eight rushing TDs rank second to only Minnesota’s Dalvin Cook.
No. 2 Jamaal Williams has four receiving touchdowns and five total touchdowns.
Chargers’ Melvin Gordon, one of the finest running backs in University of Wisconsin history, ran for nearly 3,000 yards and 28 touchdowns in the last three years.
Gordon held out until Sept. 26, though, in search of a new contract, didn't get it and hasn’t been the same player since returning. In four games, Gordon is averaging just 28 rushing yards per contest and 2.5 yards per carry.
While Gordon has struggled, No. 2 Austin Ekeler has shined. Ekeler leads all running backs and is tied for sixth in the league with 51 catches. Ekeler has 758 combined rushing and receiving yards and eight total touchdowns.
ADVANTAGE: Even

        RECEIVERS
      
Green Bay’s Davante Adams could return for the first time since suffering a turf toe injury against Philadelphia in Week 4. At practice Friday, Adams was seen leapfrogging a Packers’ staff member.
“I feel good,” Adams told reporters this week. “I feel like I’m in a spot where I can make that call for myself. But I’ve got to (collaborate) with (doctors) and see how they’re feeling and look at it one more time and then we’ll make that call.”
Green Bay’s wideouts struggled early without Adams. In the last three games, though, the group averaged 10.7 receptions per game.
Undrafted Allen Lazard has made the greatest strides with 12 receptions for 169 yards in the last three games. Even when Adams returns, Lazard has earned a much greater role in the offense.
Chargers’ Keenan Allen is on pace for his third straight 1,000-yard season and ranks sixth in the league with 51 catches. Allen played just eight games in 2015 due to a kidney injury, then tore his ACL in 2016, but has bounced back with vigor the last three years.
Mike Williams, a 6-foot-4 former first round draft choice, uses his height well to win 50-50 balls. Tight end Hunter Henry suffered a tibial plateau fracture in his knee in Week 1 and missed four games. In the last three games, though, Henry has 18 receptions for 244 yards and two touchdowns.
ADVANTAGE: Chargers

        OFFENSIVE LINE
      
At the midway point of the season, Green Bay’s front five ranks seventh overall according to Pro Football Focus.
The surprise of the group has been rookie left guard Elgton Jenkins, who PFF ranks as the No. 6 guard in football. Jenkins is also one of only two left guards to not allow a sack or a quarterback hit this season.
“He’s done really well,” Packers left tackle David Bakhtiari said of Jenkins. “I think he definitely needs to be in conversation as a rookie that’s been all-rookie team or, honestly, even Rookie of the Year for offense.”
Chargers center Mike Pouncey, one of the best in the business, suffered a neck injury last month and is on the injured reserve list. Second-year man Scott Quessenberry has great promise, but he isn’t Pouncey.
The best player is two-time Pro Bowl left tackle Russell Okung. Okung missed the first seven games this season with a pulmonary embolism due to blood clots in his lungs, but returned last week.
Right guard Michael Schofield III is steady and durable. Left guard Dan Feeney is a below average starter who gets overpowered at the point of attack, while right tackle Sam Tevi (6-5, 315) doesn’t play to his size.
ADVANTAGE: Packers

        DEFENSIVE LINE
      
Chargers’ defensive coordinator Gus Bradley went 14-48 in nearly four seasons as Jacksonville’s head coach. Bradley runs a 4-3 scheme with 3-4 tendencies, plays primarily man-to-man on the outside with a lot of single-high safety looks.
Up front, defensive ends Joey Bosa and Melvin Ingram can both wreck an offensive gameplan.
Bosa, the third overall pick in 2016, already has 35.5 career sacks, including 7.0 this year. Ingram, a first-round pick in 2012, has had a terrific career himself with 43.0 sacks and 13 forced fumbles.
The Chargers will be without starting defensive tackles Justin Jones (shoulder) and Brandon Mebane (knee). That means journeyman Damion Square and rookie Jerry Tillery will most likely start.
Many expected Green Bay to be active at the trade deadline and attempt to beef up a run defense that ranks 23rd overall (123.8) and 27th in yards per carry (4.8). But the Packers stood pat and will head to the homestretch with a group that’s been mediocre, at best.
ADVANTAGE: Chargers

        LINEBACKERS
      
Green Bay’s Blake Martinez is playing with a club on his hand, making it tough for him to be impactful. But the Packers need the heady Martinez to help run the defense.
With two sacks last week, Za’Darius Smith is tied for fourth in the league (8.0), while teammate Preston Smith is tied for seventh (7.0).
Chargers’ veteran outside linebacker Thomas Davis left Carolina after 14 seasons and more than 1,100 tackles. He’s been a nice fit in Los Angeles with a team-high 63 tackles.
Fifth-year middle linebacker Denzel Perryman has battled injuries early in his career, but is a playmaker. Second- year man Uchenna Nwosu is a rising player.
ADVANTAGE: Packers

        SECONDARY
      
Former Packer Casey Hayward has flourished with the Chargers, notching 13 interceptions and earning two Pro Bowl trips since arriving in 2016. Hayward has terrific ball skills, and after playing primarily in the slot with Green Bay, has proven he can excel outside, as well.
“He was a great teammate, a great locker room guy,” Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers said of Hayward. “Was sincerely surprised when we didn't offer him a contract to bring him back, but he made himself into an All-Pro corner with just some more opportunities.”
Slot corner Desmond King was named All-Pro a year ago at cornerback and as a punt returner. Left cornerback Michael Davis went undrafted in 2017, but has 4.43 speed and has become a reliable player.
Pro Bowl safety Derwin James, who suffered a foot injury on Aug. 22, remains out. Fellow safety Adrian Phillips then broke his arm in Week 2.
Los Angeles is now trying to get by with third-year man Rayshawn Jenkins and undrafted rookie Roderic Teamer.
Packers safety Adrian Amos has been getting the majority of his snaps next to Blake Martinez as a second inside linebacker. Cornerback Kevin King continues to have tackling issues and rookie safety Darnell Savage was up and down last week after returning from an ankle injury.
Veteran Tramon Williams is having a terrific year, though, as Green Bay’s slot nickel corner.
ADVANTAGE: Packers

        SPECIAL TEAMS
      
Green Bay waved goodbye to return man Darrius Shepherd this week after the undrafted rookie flopped. The Packers will now likely turn to second-year man Tremon Smith, who was released earlier this year, signed to the practice squad, then added back to the 53-man roster this week.
Last season, Smith averaged 26.8 yards on kickoff returns with Kansas City, but didn’t return punts.
“I think he’s got good vision,” Packers special teams coach Shawn Mennenga said of Smith. “Runs behind his pads. Got good balance. Good acceleration. His top end speed. I mean, he’s ha success with Kansas City last year. Yeah, I think he just brings an element that I think can add to us and I’m excited about what he’s going to do.”
In Los Angeles, Desmond King has developed into one of the top return men in football.
Chargers kicker Michael Badgley had a terrific rookie year in 2018 when he made 15 of 16 field goals. Badgley suffered a groin injury in Week 1 and has been out since, but is expected to kick Sunday.
Punter Ty Long ranks No. 2 in the league in average (48.6), and 11th in net (42.4).
ADVANTAGE: Chargers

        COACHING
      
Anthony Lynn is 24-16 with Los Angeles, a solid .600 winning percentage. Fair or not, though, Lynn is on the hot seat after the Chargers’ disappointing 3-5 start.
Green Bay’s Matt LaFleur is growing more comfortable and confident every week. He continues to operate with an “all gas, no brake” mentality that is playing well with his team.
ADVANTAGE: Packers
Prediction: Packers 27, Chargers 23
