
# Deepika Padukone sparks pregnancy rumours after posting baby pics on Instagram

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:56:11+00:00**

Author: **Entertainment Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2093287/4-deepika-padukone-sparks-pregnancy-rumours-posting-baby-pics-instagram/)

Now, we all know Deepika Padukone enjoys a massive social media following – over 40 million fans and followers, to be exact. And of late, her Instagram has been abuzz, more so than ever before.
Tagging her latest upload as ‘post-Diwali celebrations,’ the Mrs Ranveer Singh shared a few baby postcards, leaving everyone wondering if that was her in the pictures. But a few users took the guessing game to a different level and started speculating that Padukone may actually be pregnant herself.
The comments on the share ranged from “baby on the cards” to “congratulations are in order”, with the profile getting flooded with talks of a possible pregnancy.
On the work front, Padukone will soon be seen in Chhapaak, wherein she essays the role of an acid attack survivor. The film is scheduled to hit the screens on January 10 next year and will clash at the box office with period drama Tanhaji – The Unsung Warrior.
The Bollywood beauty also recently announced that she will play the powerful female character of Draupadi in Mahabharat, which she will be co-producing. The film will be made as a franchise, the first part of which will hit the big screens on Diwali 2021.
“I’m absolutely thrilled and honoured to be essaying the role of Draupadi. I truly believe that it is the role of a lifetime,” she said, in a statement to Mumbai Mirror.
