
# Richard Keogh's agent believes Derby sacking could 'open can of worms'

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:13:21+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/richard-keoghs-agent-believes-derby-20812461)

The agent of sacked Derby captain Richard Keogh believes the club may have opened up a "big can of worms" by terminating the defenders contract.
Keogh's deal at Pride Park was torn up despite having almost two years left to run due to his part in a drink-drive car crash.
The Rams parted ways with the 33-year-old, citing gross misconduct, after Keogh was badly injured in the smash involving him and his Derby teammates.
Tom Lawrence, 25, and Mason Bennett, 23, have since been banned for drink-driving following the incident, but have escaped lesser punishment from the club, while Keogh - who was a passenger in Lawrence's Range Rover - has lost his job.
Agent Cos Toffis, who represents Keogh, told the Sun : "I think it could be quite a big can of worms.
"If this goes in Derby's favour there will be a lot of players in difficult positions at their football clubs.
"Older players with less market value who are on a lot of money, these are scenarios you have at every football club in the world.
"Should they start wrapping themselves up in cotton wool to avoid any situations like this?"
Keogh was ruled out for the season after seriously damaging his knee in the smash, with him since being resigned to crutches.
The players had been on an arranged club night out, which finished at around 8pm, before some of the team heading on to other drinking venues afterwards.
Later Lawrence's vehicle crashed into the back of Bennett's, before striking a lamppost, with the two drivers fleeing the scene, leaving Keogh unconscious in the back.
Toffis claimed the whole ordeal has had a detrimental effect on Keogh who is struggling to come to terms with what has happened.
He added: "Richard is in a really bad way, it's heartbreaking.
"He’s bled in that shirt, fought in that shirt.
"I don't think I can put into words how much he's hurting and what his family are going through.
"Richard's world has been absolutely rocked."
Keogh still has 14 days to appeal Derby's decision.
Rumours suggest Keogh rejected the chance to see out his contract on significantly reduced terms, but this remains unconfirmed.
