
# BREAKING Jorge Masvidal wins BMF belt after Nate Diaz fight is stopped due to cut

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:54:10+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/breaking-jorge-masvidal-wins-bmf-20800681)

Jorge Masvidal was crowned the Baddest Motherf***** in the UFC when his fight with Nate Diaz was stopped after the third round.
The cageside doctor ruled Diaz could not continue having suffered a bad cut over his eye in the opening minutes of the fight.
Both fighters were disappointed with the outcome and Masvidal - who won by TKO - promised Diaz an immediate rematch.
Masvidal began the fight by faking the same flying knee that knocked of Ben Askren in his last fight.
Diaz responded by rushing the Miami man but it was he who was hurt first as an elbow opened up a huge gash over his eye.
Diaz was then dropped but a wary Masvidal kept calm as he picked his shots before eventually allowing his opponent to his feet.
It was the No.3 ranked welterweight who ended the round on top as Diaz received treatment on his cut between rounds.
And Masvidal began the second session in the ascendancy as he looked to bring an early finish to the fight.
He landed successive right hands and then began to target the body as right kick forced Diaz to momentarily drop to the canvas.
Masvidal was proving himself yet again following his wins over Askren and Darren Till but Diaz hung in there in the third round, his best session of the fight thus far.
But Masvidal was able to return fire with fire and ended the stanza on top raining down punches.
Between rounds Diaz insisted he was fine to continue but the doctor ruled the fight could not continue.
