
# Boeing faces new whistleblower complaint as former engineer says faulty 787 Dreamliner systems could leave passengers without oxygen in emergencies (BA)

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:01:48+00:00**

Author: **Alexandra Ma**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/boeing-faces-whistleblower-complaint-former-110148753.html)

REUTERS/Randall Hill
Boeing has been hit by another whistleblower complaint, this time from a former engineer who says faulty systems in the 787 Dreamliner could leave passengers without oxygen in the event of an emergency.
John Barnett, a former quality-control engineer at the manufacturer's South Carolina plant, told the BBC in a Wednesday report that while working on the plane he had found faulty emergency oxygen bottles and that managers stonewalled further investigations into the issue.
He worked at the Boeing plant in North Charleston for 32 years and retired in March 2017, the BBC reported. He is suing Boeing, claiming it hampered his career over his complaints about quality issues, allegations the company denies, according to the BBC.
Randall Hill/Reuters
Here's a rundown of his allegations, as reported by the BBC on Wednesday:
Boeing and the FAA have not responded to Business Insider's request for comment on the allegations. The plane manufacturer told the BBC that in 2017 it had "identified some oxygen bottles received from the supplier that were not deploying properly" and removed them from production.
Earlier this month, The Seattle Times reported that the Russian carrier Aeroflot formally canceled an order for 22 787 Dreamliner aircraft, valued at $5.5 billion.
Shutterstock
Barnett also presented to the BBC a culture of constantly being pressured to meet production schedules and keep costs down, suggesting that it has jeopardized the quality of Boeing planes.
He said the South Carolina plant allowed numerous defective parts to be "lost" while tracking it through the production process. The FAA upheld this allegation and noted that at least 53 parts had been lost, and it ordered Boeing to take remedial action, the BBC reported, adding that Boeing said it had "fully resolved" the issue.
Barnett told The New York Times in April that during his tenure he found clusters of sharp metal pieces hanging over wiring that commands flight controls. If those shavings ever penetrated the wires, the result could be "catastrophic," he told The Times.
He added that when he complained, Boeing refused to investigate and moved him to another part of the plant.
Barnett also told the BBC that workers under pressure at his plant fitted to the 787 Dreamliner substandard parts from scrap bins — to the knowledge of a senior manager in at least one case.
His accusations are consistent with an internal Boeing survey, conducted in November 2016, that found that 29% of engineers felt pressure from managers to certify plane systems they designed themselves — suggesting an atmosphere of rushing through the design and certification process. The Wall Street Journal first reported on the survey.
Jim Young-Pool/Getty Images
Boeing has also faced multiple employee complaints regarding its culture and plane quality. These complaints ramped up after two deadly crashes by 787 Max planes, which together killed 346 people.
In July, a former Boeing 737 Max engineer told BBC Panorama that engineers were deliberately pressured to characterize major changes in flight software as minor changes to avoid FAA scrutiny.
In October, The New York Times and Reuters reported on internal messages between 787 Max's chief technical pilot and another colleague complaining of "egregious" problems with the jet's automated anti-stall system, which is believed to be behind the two crashes.
Airlines across the world have grounded their 737 Max jets, and Boeing is fighting to get them back in the air. Congress is scrutinizing the firm's role in the production and marketing of the 737 Max.
