
# Jacob Rees-Mogg opts for low profile amid Grenfell remarks fury

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:53:46+00:00**

Author: **Simon Murphy**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/06/rees-mogg-keeps-low-profile-after-grenfell-comments-outrage)


        Commons leader avoids responding to calls to resign as Tory allies rally round
      
Jacob Rees-Mogg is never normally one to shy away from the media lens. But following his claim that it would have been “common sense” to ignore fire brigade advice and flee the Grenfell tower block fire – a statement that prompted outrage – he went uncharacteristically quiet after apologising.
The rapper Stormzy added to the condemnation and calls for Rees-Mogg, the leader of the Commons, to resign following his comments on Monday about the west London fire in 2017 in which 72 people died.
As the general election campaign kicked off following the dissolution of parliament, the Tory minister kept a low profile on Wednesday.
At his £5.6m townhouse in Westminster, which once served as a political HQ for Lord Ashcroft, a big donor to the Conservatives, a camera crew had been waiting since the morning to no avail. The property had visible posters in a fourth-floor window bearing “Leave means leave” and “No deal? No problem” slogans. A blue Conservative placard was prominently displayed in a downstairs window. When the Guardian knocked on the door, a woman who answered suggested Rees-Mogg was not in.
The politician spoke in the Commons on Tuesday evening for nine minutes to close a valedictory debate, but rumours had since swirled that he could have left for his constituency in north-east Somerset, where he defends a comfortable 10,000 majority.
