
# Racist Vicki Momberg in hiding, with police trying to track her down

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:25:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [News24](https://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/racist-vicki-momberg-in-hiding-with-police-trying-to-track-her-down-20191103)

Convicted racist, Vicki Momberg, who failed to report to the Randburg Magistrate’s Court in August, is now believed to be in hiding, with police trying to track her down after a warrant of arrest was issued.
In 2017, Momberg, a former real estate agent was found guilty of four counts of crimen injuria after she called a black police officer the k-word 48 times when he came to her aid, following a smash-and-grab incident in 2016.
A viral video went viral, showing her racist tirade.
In March 2018, she was sentenced to two years in jail, with an additional one year suspended. Momberg was granted bail, pending the outcome against her conviction and sentence.
News24 reported that Momberg’s appeal for her conviction and sentence was dismissed by the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg in June this year.

        READ: Vicki Momberg's bid to appeal conviction and sentence dismissed
      
She was given 30 days to file leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal and her bail was subsequently extended. Judge Thifhelimbilu Mudau warned her that should she fail to approach the SCA, she would have to hand herself over to the clerk of the court to serve her remaining sentence.
Police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters confirmed to News24 that police are trying to track down Momberg.
“Police are yet to locate and arrest Ms Momberg as per a warrant of arrest, after two known addresses were visited by the police more than once and Ms Momberg was not found at either of the addresses,” Peters said.
Sunday Times reported that a warrant of arrest was issued on August 1 when she failed to report at the Randburg Magistrate’s Court.
The newspaper also reported that they tried to track Momberg down and visited her parents’ home on two occasions, where a relative reportedly said she was living. On both occasions, Momberg was not there.
While Momberg was also found guilty in the Equality Court and ordered to pay R100 000, along with a public apology, she has maintained her innocence, saying that the stress of the smash and grab incident left her incapacitated and therefore not liable for her racist diatribe.

        Compiled by Alex Mitchley
      
