
# Rashami Desai, Devoleena Bhattacharjee make shock return to Bigg Boss house

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:19:32+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/rashami-desai-devoleena-bhattacharjee-make-shock-return-to-bigg-boss/271631/)

Rashami Desai and Devoleena Bhatatcharjee have made a shock return to the Colors TV’s popular reality show Bigg Boss. The makers of the show broadcast a promo for Thursday announcing that Rashami and Devoleena had returned to the show.
Both Devollena and Rashami were voted out of the competition over the weekend after host Salman Khan announced that they had received the least number of votes. As for Rashami, Salman had announced that her place was taken by Mahira, who rode piggyback on the popularity of Paras Chhabra.
Elsewhere, faced with unprecedented protests by fans, Colors TV’s reality show Bigg Boss on Wednesday night changed its mind and did not evict actor Siddharth Shukla. On Wednesday night, Bigg Boss said that it was only nominating Siddharth for the next two weeks.
The reality show on Monday night had broadcast a promo stating that it was evicting Siddharth because of violence. However, that promo had evoked angry reactions from Siddharth’s fans, who took to social media to even threaten to boycott the popular TV show.
The change in Bigg Boss‘ stance was evident on Tuesday night when it did not repeat the promo announcing Siddharth’s eviction. Aside from Siddharth being nominated for the next two weeks, Shehnaaz Gill was also nominated for eviction for the next one week. This was because she refused to assemble in the living area for a special announcement.
Siddharth accepted his punishment for two weeks of nomination, but he did not appear convinced about Bigg Boss’ decision.
