
# You can now hire in-flight nannies to look after your kids on long-haul journeys

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:59:39+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/news/you-can-now-hire-flight-20831597)

Any parent will know that flying with children isn't always an easy feat.
As well as managing the logistics of travel documents, airport transfers and flight bookings, you also need to keep the kids entertained (including those long security queues), make sure they're fed, take them to the loo when nature calls... it can all get quite tiring.
While cabin crew are on hand to help, they also have hundreds of passengers to look after so you can't always rely on them.
Now, a new service is offering an alternative; your very own in-flight nanny.
Their job? Help out where needed whether that means carrying baby gear, keeping kids in check during queues, walking toddlers up and down the aisles or keeping the kids entertained.
Duties can even include changing nappies or feeding older kids if you're holding a sleeping baby.
 
AirPair launched this year and it aims to match families with an au pair to join them on a flight.
Families won't need to fork out for an extra ticket - the service looks to match you with babysitters who are signed up to the service and travelling on the same flight.
However, that doesn't mean it's free; families pay an hourly fee for the nanny's airport and flight time.
The idea is that you'll be able to have the nanny sat next to you. This may involve having them switch seats before the flight but if that isn't possible, then they can ask your neighbour politely if they will switch.
Considering some people are praising an airline map that shows where babies are located so you can avoid them on a flight, we reckon the odds are probably in your favour.
 
AirPair's creator Alana explains on the website: "My family and I love to travel. But ever since my second son was born and my angelic firstborn grew into a rambunctious toddler, flying is a serious struggle. I missed trip opportunities because I couldn’t handle flying with them alone.
"I wished I had an extra set of hands to help lug gear and keep the kids safe and happy while on board the plane. So I created AirPair to match flying families like mine with a helping hand."
 
The service says that the babysitters are vetted and have gone through a training programme to learn the best practices for flying with children - however it's worth noting that the website doesn't explain what the vetting process or training programme entail, so families who do use the service may want to double check before signing up.
Currently, AirPair is only available on flights between North America and Israel, although if it proves successful it could be that it's rolled out on more flight routes.
In the meantime you might want to check out our guide with top tips for flying with children, as well as mums and dads' advice for new parents flying with a baby for the first time.
Oh, and make sure to bookmark these handy tips for calming a crying baby on a flight and how to stop your kids' ears from hurting during the journey.
