
# Superdrug is selling a Harry Potter Advent Calendar - here's how to get £15 off

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:52:18+00:00**

Author: **Melisha Kaur, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/melisha-kaur/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/shopping-deals/superdrug-selling-harry-potter-advent-20814969)

The countdown to Christmas will be here before we know it and retailers have been releasing every type of advent calendar under the sun, from booze-filled to beauty themed.
Now Superdrug is selling a Harry Potter Advent Calendar online and in store - and we've spotted a way you can get £15 off.
A must for Harry Potter fans, the festive countdown contains 24 gifts inspired by the film including a wand pen, notepads and playing cards.
Originally £20, cashback site TopCashback are giving shoppers a huge discount on the Potter-themed countdown to all new members that sign up to their free website.
All you have to do is sign up with your email, then head to the Superdrug £15 bonus deal page, where you can click through to the Superdrug website.
You then need to buy the Harry Potter festive countdown and TopCashback will reimburse you a £15 bonus within two weeks.
Here are the three simple steps to follow if you want to claim below.
If you want to get your hands on a wonderfully themed advent calendar at a great price, the TopCashback offer is available until November 17th - giving you plenty of time to save.
The offer is only open to new TopCashback members, so you won't be able to claim the offer if you're already signed up.
Find your nearest Superdrug using the online store locator.
Looking for more unusual advent calendars? Here's our roundup of the best alternative advent calendars for 2019.
