
# Langley 'chemical leak': 57 people suffer breathing difficulties near farm

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:44:50+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-langley-chemical-leak-57-20826404)

Dozens of people have reported breathing difficulties after a suspected chemical leak at a commercial site near Maidstone this afternoon.
Five fire engines, hazardous material officers and a specialist chemical unit were all called after 57 people said they had trouble breathing.
Paramedics are at the scene in Langley.
The exact location of the suspected leak has not been disclosed by the emergency services but the road to Rumwood Green Farm has been shut down according to local media.
A Kent Police spokesman said: "Kent Police were contacted by South East Coast Ambulance Service at 2.49pm regarding reports of a suspected chemical leak at a commercial site near Sutton Road, Langley, Maidstone.

        
          Have you been affected by this story? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk
        
      
"Officers are at the scene along with the Kent Fire and Rescue Service and ambulance crews, and are offering assistance where needed."
Self-employed businessman Richard Hurley, 32, is at Maidstone Hospital and told Kent Online the scene looked like a "complete lockdown".
He told the website: "Nobody is being allowed into the hospital and big white hazard tents have been set up outside.
"There's a lot of activity, I'd describe it as a full-scale operation.
"I can see five police cars, a couple of vans and now there are quite a few ambulances queuing up."
An air ambulance was reportedly called to the scene alongside other emergency services.
A spokesperson for Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust said: “Our hospital sites are currently preparing for the arrival of a number of patients who are experiencing breathing difficulties following a suspected chemical incident in Maidstone.
”As a precautionary measure a hazardous materials tent has been erected outside the emergency department to help us manage those patients.
“While our Emergency Departments (EDs) are open as normal, we would encourage people to only use our EDs for emergency and life-threatening situations during this period to help us focus our resources on those who need it most.”
An ambulance spokesman said: "We are responding to an incident in Sutton Road, Langley near Maidstone, following a suspected chemical leak at a premises reported to us at approximately 2.20pm today.
"Ambulance crews, including our Hazardous Area Response Team and the air ambulance service, are at the scene.
"We have assessed and treated 57 people at the scene for breathing difficulties.
"A number have been discharged from our care.
"No patients are currently in a serious condition."
