
# McDonald aims to add value to Royals' squad

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:40:28+00:00**

Author: **Mandakini Shalya**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/ipl/top-stories/mcdonald-aims-to-add-value-to-royals-squad/articleshow/71848012.cms)

JAIPUR: Epithets-young, successful and sought after-ring a bell, reminding of a breakout cricketer. But they are equally apposite for a 'youngster' in the coaching realm Andrew McDonald, who is all set to assume the mantle of head coach of Rajasthan Royals and assistant coach of Cricket Australia's men's team.
Though these are early days for the 38-year-old Australian-who boasts of the Sheffield Shield and Big Bash League titles for Victoria and Melbourne Renegades respectively-McDonald is upbeat about his new role with the Royals.
"T20 jobs particularly in the IPL don't always come up. So, when the Royals job came up I was happy to throw my hat into the ring. If you ask the coaches around the world, at some point of time they want to coach in the IPL. It's the best competition in the world. You get to work with the best players and in front of one of the best cricket fans. It is a contest of all things at the highest level," said the former all-rounder while crediting Royals' chief owner Manoj Badale, executive chairman Ranjit Barthakur and chief operating officer Jake Lush McCrum for putting trust in him.
McDonald, who was in the past associated with the IPL as the bowling coach of Royal Challengers Bangalore and also as a player for different franchises, recognises the challenges that would come along with the head coach's job. "In particular, a coach coming in is the connection with the group, not only the players but also the staff I will be working with. Getting to know them in the lead up to the tournament is critical. This is a challenge of a short tournament where you have access to players only a couple of weeks before the tournament," he said adding, "With retention and the IPL auctions for next year coming up, another challenge would be putting up the list of players together who can implement the style of play that we think can win and take it to the business end of the tournament."
The expectations do not end here. Extracting performances from star players, which are in majority, and building a winning outfit will be an ask. The Aussie is looking forward to adding value to the squad. "I think it's a pretty exciting list that's currently in place with Jofra Archer, Jos Buttler, Ben Stokes, Steve Smith, Shreyas Gopal, Ajinkya Rahane and Sanju Samson among others. These are the core players to work with. I will look to add value to that listing and try to make them play the style of cricket we want to play," he said.
Talking about his injury-ridden brief international career of four years as a player, McDonald said it was always in the back of his mind to contribute to the sport no matter in what capacity. "I had some significant long-term injuries throughout my career and given that I had passion for the game, coaching was a logical career path post retirement. I had started investing in my coaching skills even when I was still playing in 2007."
The two roles-playing and coaching-are really poles apart, and both lend fair share of nerves, but of a different kind. "As a player you get really nervous with your job being to go out and perform. As a coach you have nerves about the preparation phase, build up and making sure the player gets what he requires."
His spell as a player also got him to rub shoulders with late Aussie batsman Phillip Hughes, whose accidental death shook the entire cricket fraternity. Reminiscing about the time he had spent with him, McDonald described him a 'person with great energy'. "I have some great memories playing with Hughes within the Australian cricket team and also for South Australia. My fondest memories of him is he made cricket enjoyable. It was great to be around him. It never mattered whether he made a duck or a hundred, he was always the same person with great energy. I am thankful for the opportunity of playing with him."
