
# Jo Swinson only cared about herself over live TV debate snub and didn't mention Nicola Sturgeon

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Record View, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/record-view/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/jo-swinson-only-cared-herself-20820395)

One of the reasons voters repeatedly snub the Lib Dems at the ballot box is their hypocrisy.
Nick Clegg ran as a progressive in 2010 but, after the election, jumped into bed with the Tories.
The Lib Dems masqueraded as a cuddly buch of romantics but they helped push through the bedroom tax and spending cuts for the poor.
The controversy over the TV election debates is another example of their double standards.
Yes, ITV were wrong to exclude Lib Dem leader Jo Swinson and they were wrong to exclude Nicola Sturgeon and the SNP as well.
Both party leaders were correct to loudly complain.
The two-party system has been broken by Brexit and the broadcaster should think again.
However, when Sky then invited Swinson on to a three-way debate with Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn, did Swinson complain about Sturgeon’s exclusion? That the leader of Scotland’s biggest political party was not given a voice? Was she concerned that the leader of the third-biggest party at Westminster, far bigger than her own, was being silenced? Of course not.
Her silence on the First Minister proved Swinson’s initial complaint was based on self-interest – not principle.
Voters are turned off by party political posturing and the Lib Dems have confirmed themselves to be nothing more than a bunch of chancers.
Broadcasters should recognise that politics has changed and drag their debate formats into the 21st century.
Workplace deaths are outrageously common in Scotland.
On average, there was one death every fortnight over the past decade.
The GMB union branded the toll a “source of shame” for the UK Government.
Why? Because they fear corners are cut on workplace health and safety as austerity continues to bite. Accidents happen but there can be no excuse for anyone being put in needless danger.
There is a growing case for transfer of powers to Holyrood.
That debate must be led by a clear-sighted ambition to keep workers safe.
Our shameful record must not be allowed to get worse in a Boris Johnson-led drive to cut regulations even further.
We do like a plain speaker. Olivia Colman is plainer than most – and, sometimes, a bit naughty to boot.
That down-to-earth approach has won her an army of fans who know talent isn’t defined by the way you talk.
The star of The Crown is most certainly a national treasure.
