
# No privacy left: Top court slams Chhattisgarh govt

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **PTI**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/news/india/no-privacy-left-top-court-slams-chhattisgarh-govt/articleshow/71913459.cms)

IPS officer’s phone tapping caseApex court seeks affidavit on who ordered interception of phones of senior cop Mukesh Gupta and daughtersNEW DELHI The Supreme Court on Monday expressed serious concern over the Chhattisgarh government tapping the phone of a senior IPS officer – and allegedly also of his two daughters –and wondered if “somebody’s privacy can be violated like this”. “No privacy is left for anybody. What is happening in this country?” the top court observed. It asked the state government as to who ordered for interception of the phones of the senior police officer Mukesh Gupta and his family members and directed it to file a detailed affidavit explaining the reason for the action. During the previous hearing in the case on October 25, Gupta had alleged that his and his two young daughters’ phones were being intercepted. The state government had admitted that his phone was being tapped as he has been evading arrest in two cases lodged against him. The government had denied intercepting his daughters’ phone . The court had then restrained the state government from intercepting the phones of Gupta and his family and granted him protection from arrest in the cases lodged against him. But it had refused to quash the FIRs lodged against the 1988 batch IPS officer including one for alleged FCRA violation by a trust running an eye hospital, founded by his father. During the hearing on Monday, a bench of justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee asked the Chhattisgarh government if an individual’s phone can be intercepted just to trace him. “Everyday something is happening. What is the need of this? No privacy is left for anybody. What is happening in this country,” the bench said, adding, “Can privacy of somebody be violated like this? Who ordered this? File a detailed affidavit.”
