
# Wife murdered husband after sharing fantasies of romping in his blood with lover

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:24:54+00:00**

Author: **Bradley Jolly, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/bradley-jolly/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/wife-murdered-husband-after-sharing-20811265)

A sex-mad wife and lover who murdered her millionaire husband after revelling in violent pornographic fantasies of torturing and killing him for months face years in jail.
Angela Taylor, 53, and Paul Cannon, 54, shared a "venomous hatred" for farmer William Taylor.
The wealthy 69-year-old had refused to grant his wife of 20 years a divorce before vanishing last June.
But on the night the landowner vanished, Cannon told Taylor he was "just watching Kill Bill 2 lol", with her replying "1 would be nice" with several smiling emojis.
In the months beforehand, he told Taylor he would "kill for" her and was afraid of losing her.
He went on to say: "You know what I'd like to do ... make love to you on his kitchen table with your p**** soaked in blood with him tied to a chair so he had to watch !!!!!!!"
 
"Then send him to hell."
And Mr Taylor's skeletal remains were found waist-deep in mud by a passing fisherman on a secluded riverbank near one of his farms in Gosmore, Hertfordshire.
The landowner's body was so decomposed that determining a cause of death was impossible, experts told St Albans Crown Court.
Taylor and burly Cannon, who is a digger driver, were jointly convicted of his murder by a jury of eight women and four men after little more than 11 hours of deliberations.
 
Grey-haired Cannon, wearing a dark suit, shook his head as the verdicts were returned, while Taylor appeared to make no reaction.
Dozens of violent WhatsApp messages expressing a desire to seriously harm Mr Taylor were read in court. The messages showed the pair had enjoyed discussing sexually graphic and violent ways of seriously harming Mr Taylor, who suffered from both tinnitus and arthritis .
They included fantasies of showering together as his blood ran down the drain and cutting his ligaments and fingers off.
Mr Taylor, known as Bill, was last seen alive at his home of Harkness Hall at around 9pm on June 3 by his grandson Ben, who had taken him a Sunday roast.
In the following days Cannon sold a Suzuki 4x4 for cash before the vehicle ended up in Bulgaria, while Taylor got rid of her mobile phone, the trial heard.
Cannon's work colleague, Gwyn Griffiths, 60, of Folkestone, Kent, who the court heard had so-called "people-pleasing" psychological traits, was cleared of conspiracy to murder after being accused of discussing hiring a hitman with Cannon.
How the farmer died remains unexplained.
But Taylor and Cannon, both of Hitchin, Hertfordshire, will be sentenced on Friday by judge Michael Kay QC.
Taylor has three children with her farmer husband. They married in 1997.
