
# Xiaomi CC9 Pro will launch with RUOK protective case - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:00:32+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/03/xiaomi-cc9-pro-will-launch-with-ruok-protective-case/)

Xiaomi CC9 Pro will launch with “RUOK” protective case4.2 (84%) 5 votes
After unveiling the “Lei Jun” custom cases earlier this year to celebrate the sales of 1.5 million units of Xiaomi Mi 9, the company’s CEO revealed a new set of cases with the RUOK (Are You Ok) branding. This case was first used for the Xiaomi Mi 9. However, there are reports that the upcoming Xiaomi CC9 Pro will also use this protective cover. This case has a special design which is different from that of Mi 9. It comes with a ribbon which is meant to hang outside the pocket showing a “street style”.
The CC9 Pro RUOK protective case has two combinations. It has a black phone case with an orange/red ribbon as well as a dark-blue phone case with a yellow/green color. The ribbons come with the classic “RUOK” letters.
Looking at the special design of the Xiaomi CC9 Pro rear, the RUOK protective case also comes with a similar rear design. There is special protection for the rear camera and flash. In addition, there is a “Xiaomi” label in the upper right corner of the phone case. The label is red in the black case and it uses a green colour in the dark-blue case. The Xiaomi Mi 9 RUOK protective case sells for 49 yuan ($7). This one should come with a similar price tag. Finally, the Xiaomi CC9 Pro mobile phone will arrive in China at 2 pm on November 5. 

        Via
      
