
# Box Office: ‘Harriet’ Nabs Promising $12 Million Weekend While ‘Motherless Brooklyn’ Bombs

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Mendelson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/scottmendelson/2019/11/03/box-office-harriet-nabs-promising-12-million-weekend-while-motherless-brooklyn-bombs/)

The notion of a Harriet Tubman biopic has been a measuring stick of sorts for years and years, with the absence thereof used as a prime example of Hollywood not valuing historically interesting or heroic black stories. That’s probably true, but now we have a Harriet Tubman biopic, from a black female filmmaker (Kasi Lemmons) no less. Yes, it’s a bit formulaic, borrowing the struture of  Captain America: The First Avenger, but it’s a solid biopic/superhero origin story hybrid. Cynthia Erivo is terrific and the film just works exactly as intended. Sometimes a good movie is a good movie. Anyway, I’m happy to note that audiences seem to be showing up, with the film netting a solid $12 million opening weekend. That’s a promising 3.07x multiplier from an A+ Cinemascore grade. That’s not a barn burner but Focus Features will likely call it a measured win.
Warner Bros. released writer/director/producer/star Edward Norton’s Motherless Brooklyn, a long-gestating passion project, into 1,342 theaters. The $26 million adaptation of Jonathan Lethem’s novel stars Norton as a private investigator with Tourette’s trying to solve his mentor’s murder in the 1950s. Even with okay (but not superlative) reviews and a cast including Bruce Willis, Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Alec Baldwin and Willem Dafoe, this is just the latest Warner Bros. drama to essentially call the bluff of moviegoers who claim to want sophisticated, star-driven, adult-skewing studio programmers.
As sadly expected, the film earned $3.65 million, joining the honored dead (Blinded by the Light, The Kitchen, The Sun is Also A Star and The Goldfinch) as all parties hope for more robust results for Doctor Sleep next weekend. In that sense, Joker (which is over $900 million on a $60 million budget) is indeed a most conventional of tentpoles.
Finally, we have Entertainment Studios’ animated flick Artic Dogs. The Jeremy Renner toon debuted yesterday with little in the way of hype or buzz, so it’s no shock that the $50 million (!) animated feature will gross just $3.1 million this weekend. I’ve got nothing more to say about this.
The other newbie is the theatrical release, in eight theaters in New York and LA, of Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman. The 3.5-hour mob drama, starring Robert De Niro, Al Pacino and Joe Pesci has earned rave reviews and strong buzz heading into the weekend. That said, it’s a Netflix film, due to debut on the streaming service on November 27, so even if it sets a record for per-theater averages for movies opening in more than six theaters (Precious earned $1.8 million in 18 theaters on this very weekend in 2009), we may never know.
