
# Killer who beheaded own mother sent back to Carstairs amid fears he could strike again

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Jane Hamilton, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jane-hamilton/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/crime/killer-who-beheaded-mother-sent-20791458)

A killer who beheaded his own mother has been sent back to the State Hospital at Carstairs amid fears he was poised to strike again.
James Dunleavy, who is considered an “untreatable psychopath”, killed his mother Philomena at his Edinburgh home in 2013 before cutting up her body and burying her in a shallow grave.
Dunleavy , 45, was found guilty of culpable homicide on the grounds of diminished responsibility and was sent to the state hospital.
The monster was released from the high security facility after psychiatric reports said he was “fit” to serve his sentence in a conventional prison.
Sources said he was then freed from prison back into the community after serving only six years of his nine-year sentence.
Dunleavy, who was born in Dublin, was being monitored in an Edinburgh half-way house, whose location we will not be revealing, after his release.
 
But sources at the hostel said he was starting to show signs of a mental breakdown and is considered so dangerous there were fears he would offend again.
The source said: “He’s been at the hostel for some time and has been allowed to freely mingle with the public who have no idea who he is or what he’s done.
“He was starting to act very weirdly, very hostile, very aggressive and it was worrying some of the staff.
“He was considered untreatable at the state hospital, so to put this guy back on the streets was a crazy decision. The people who make those decisions are playing Russian Roulette with the public.”
The source added: “He was re-admitted to the hospital about a month ago as an emergency admission. The police took him back.
“He had been showing signs of hostility and threatening violence and the staff at the hostel decided they couldn’t take any chances with their own safety, the other residents and the public.”
 
At his trial in 2014, the High Court heard chilling evidence that 66-year-old Philomena could still have been alive when the killer began to hack off her limbs. Philomena, from Marino, Dublin, had been visiting her son before the fatal attack in 2013.
He battered and strangled her before he chopped off her head and legs and then buried her remains in woods in Corstorphine Hill.
A cyclist came across the grave and police appealed for help to identify the dismembered remains.
Dunleavy – said to be obsessed with religion and a Muslim convert – was arrested shortly after his mother was identified by police.
Jurors heard evidence that he thought his mother was a reptile and wanted to look inside her body to see if she was. Carstairs said: “Due to confidentiality, we are unable to comment on patients or staff, past or present.”
Edinburgh City Council said: “It is policy not to comment on individual cases.
“However, we do have robust procedures in place for people placed under criminal justice social work supervision and work closely with our partners to enhance public safety.”
 
When the remains were first found in June 2013, police visited the parents of murdered book-keeper Suzanne Pilley to keep them informed of developments.
Suzanne disappeared in 2010 and her body has never been found.
Her former lover, David Gilroy, was found guilty of her murder in 2012 and sentenced to life imprisoment.
Police were later able to rule out the body was that of Suzanne.
