
# 'He will be off' - Rangers fans divided on latest striker update amid Aston Villa interest

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:45:21+00:00**

Author: **Josh Murray**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/he-off-rangers-fans-divided-17204705)

Rangers fans are having their say on the future of in-form striker Alfredo Morelos, as speculation continues to link him with Aston Villa.
The Colombian took his eye-catching tally for 2019-20 up to 20 goals from 24 matches on Saturday, netting twice in a 5-2 Scottish League Cup win over Hearts.
Gers boss Steven Gerrard responded to talk of a potential move away from Ibrox for Morelos on BT Sport recently, saying: "I'm not confident, I'm sure. I'm 100 per cent sure he's not going anywhere."
Former Rangers and Wolverhampton Wanderers midfielder Alex Rae took to Twitter after Gerrard's comments to celebrate the hopes of Morelos staying in the Scottish Premiership, amid the Villa rumours.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
"Beaming Rangers boss Steven Gerrard has delivered an emphatic transfer message and insists star man Alfredo Morelos is going nowhere in January. That will be that then."
Rangers fans have since taken to social media to give their thoughts on Morelos' future.

        Here's a selection of what they have been saying...
      
John-o'neill: All Rangers fans know he's gonna get sold but hopefully not in January still better things to come
Craig Braid: He’ll be away in the summer he’s going nowhere this season
James Moore: Music to many ears the boy is on course for 40 this season
 
@andyb29: Money talks tho Alex....... hope not!
@Testerofwells: It won’t be that, if someone comes in and sends us the valuation he’s gone
Lawrelos: £20m bid, he will be off!
MartyFunkhouser: Shows his naivety (and yours). If a club comes in and Morelos wants to go then it will not be so simple.
