
# Ricciardo enjoys challenge of bumpy COTA: I prefer it like this

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nicolás Quarles van Ufford**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49235/ricciardo-enjoys-challenge-of-bumpy-cota-i-prefer-it-like-this-.html)


        With a lot of other drivers filing complaints about the Circuit of the Americas' very bumpy asphalt this season, Renault driver Daniel Ricciardo actually said he enjoys the track in its current state, saying he prefers the track bumpy rather than smooth.
      
The conditions in Texas were very tricky in itself, with air temperature even dipping below zero on Friday morning with cold winds as well. On top of that, COTA's asphalt was extremely bumpy, with Lewis Hamilton even saying the state of the track in Texas was unsafe.
Ricciardo, however, didn't mind the conditions, with the seven-time Grand Prix winner getting fifth and 11th in FP1 and FP2 respectively.
“The morning session was pretty smooth but, in the afternoon, it seemed like others found a bit of pace," the 30-year-old said when analysing his Friday.

        "We’re not far off and I’m sure we can find a bit more. We’ll go through it all to find out which areas we can improve, but I think it’ll be small things.
      

        "It’s good to be back driving here; it’s a great track, although it’s very cold! Clearly, people were talking about the bumps today but it is what it is. I prefer it like this, rather than it being completely smooth; it all adds to the enjoyment factor and the challenge.”
      
