
# Daniel Sturridge makes 'crazy' transfer admission after Aston Villa rumour

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:10:19+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/sturridge-liverpool-trabzonspor-transfer-villa-17220867)

Daniel Sturridge has opened up on his love for Liverpool – and admitted his summer move to Turkey was ‘crazy’.
The striker was linked with Aston Villa after his six-year spell with Liverpool came to an end when the Champions League winners released him.
Birmingham-born Sturrdige was on Villa's academy books before joining Coventry City at the age of 11 and later Manchester City.
He has become the ultimate 'one that got away' with Villa fans forced to watch on as he won the Champions League title at Chelsea in 2012 - a feat he matched with Liverpool in May - and became an England regular.
However, over the last few years Sturridge's career has been blighted by injuries and despite returning to full fitness last term he was barely used by Jurgen Klopp with Roberto Firmino, Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Divock Origi the German's preferred options in attack
Villa were among a host of clubs credited with an interest in the 30-year-old, before he agreed a deal to join Trabzonspor.
Sturridge has been speaking about his summer decision and looked back on his time at Anfield with fondess.
He told De Marke Sports: "For example, when I lived in Liverpool, the fans showed me a great love. I love Liverpool very much and I can still feel it in my heart."
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
He was mobbed by Trabzonspor fans when he touched down at a local airport.
"It was crazy to be met at the airport," Sturridge added. "They brought me in by car and it was a really crazy welcome.
"My story isn't over yet. My heart wants me to help this club succeed."
Villa turned to Wesley Moraes to lead their attack, landing the striker in a record £22m transfer from Club Brugge. He's scored four Premier League goals so far this season.
