
# Donald Trump jeered as president attends UFC 244 amid protests at Madison Square Garden

Published at: **2019-11-03T02:10:44+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/donald-trump-jeered-president-attends-20799455)

Donald Trump was booed as he took to his seat at UFC 244 in New York on Saturday night.
The president is cageside at Madison Square Garden to watch Nate Diaz take on Jorge Masvidal at the famous combat arena.
He took his seat shortly before the main card started at 10pm local time and was met by a chorus of jeers.
Hours earlier, a group of protesters began lining the streets in order to ensure they were there to greet the president.
It was reported earlier this week that Trump, who has promoted boxing and mixed martial arts fights in the past, would attend the fight.
And he entered the area with a huge entourage and security detail and took his seat right in front of the action.
On his way to his seat, Trump was greeted by former boxing world champion Roberto Duran who will be in Masvidal's corner later tonight.
Diaz and Masvidal clash for the Baddest Motherf***** belt which will be presented to the winner by WWE legend and movie star Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson.
And journalists reported long delays as they attempted to check in with reporters asked to leave their equipment to be checked by sniffer dogs before returning.
And protesters made their presence felt with a long banner which read "#outnow!".
Trump is a long-time friend of UFC president Dana White who spoke during the Republican's 2016 election campaign.
White told the Washington Times last year: "That guy gave us our start when nobody would talk to us. No arenas wanted us.
"Donald Trump has never done anything remotely negative to me ever — except try to compete with me. I’m not going to say anything negative about him and I never have.”
