
# 21 sex scene mishaps, from Margot Robbie in Wolf of Wall Street to Henry Cavill in The Tudors

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:48:15+00:00**

Author: **Roisin O&#39;Connor**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/films/features/sex-scenes-film-tv-awkward-embarrassing-best-wolf-of-wall-street-margot-robbie-a9186161.html)

Sex scenes are a notoriously tricky beast, and most actors would agree one of the most dreaded parts of the job. Even the most experienced of stars have tales of accidental flashing, on-set injuries and good old-fashioned awkwardness. 
The obvious incidents are ones such as when Henry Cavill admitted he got “over-excited” while filming a steamy scene for The Tudors, or when a then-underage Christopher Mintz-Plasse had to film his Superbad character losing his virginity... while his real-life mother watched. 
Other incidents are ones you might not expect, such as rapper Gucci Mane falling asleep while his on-screen partner was on top of him during Spring Breakers because he was exhausted after performing a concert. Or the time Emilia Clarke had a laughing fit because her Game of Thrones co-star Jason Momoa swapped his “modesty sock” for a fluffy pink one. 
Then there are the actors who can’t forget the fact that they’re working with someone they consider a friend, or are distracted because the director happens to be their real-life partner. For Kate Winslet, both issues arose when she worked on Revolutionary Road with co-star Leonardo DiCaprio and her then-husband Sam Mendes. She won a Golden Globe for her performance, so hopefully she thinks it was worth it.
Click through the gallery below to see the 21 most awkward sex-scene mishaps:
 
