
# Idea Factory's Desert RPG Arc Of Alchemist Gets A Local eShop Release Early Next Year

Published at: **2019-11-07T02:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Liam Doolan**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/idea_factorys_desert_rpg_arc_of_alchemist_gets_a_local_eshop_release_early_next_year)

Idea Factory International has announced the desert-filled RPG Arc of Alchemist is coming to the Nintendo Switch early next year. The game will be made available in both Europe and North America via the eShop.
The western release allows players to explore the Desert of Beginnings with an updated user interface, new items and new base facilities for better character levelling. You can also now choose from more than seven playable characters – with each one specialising in unique weapons, attacks and abilities.
Here's some information about the game's story, directly from the PR:
In addition to character specialisations, you'll be able to open new pathways by using Lunagear to combine elements and manipulate both organic and mechanical environments. Building a strong base is also essential, as it allows your party to regroup after battles and strategize its next attack. Upgrading facilities within your camp can help improve your party's makeup as well.
While you do all of this, you'll be able to amass and exchange items to help strengthen your party, alter a weapon's appearance and forge special items. Below are some screens from the PR:

        Will you be adding this to your digital collection on release? Comment below.
      
