
# R.J. Barrett Has More Losses With The Knicks Than He Had The Last Two Years Combined

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Zagoria**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adamzagoria/2019/11/07/rj-barrett-has-more-losses-with-the-knicks--than-he-had-the-last-two-years-combined/)

R.J. Barrett was more than ready to be the face of the Knicks when the team drafted him in June.
Now he is – and not in a good way.
With the Knicks’ loss at Detroit on Wednesday, the 19-year-old Barrett has now lost more games this season with the Knicks (7) than he did last year at Duke (6) or the year before at Montverde (FL) Academy (0) combined.
It’s Nov. 6 and the Knicks (1-7) have only played eight of 82 games. They have 74 more to go this season.
A year ago, Barrett and teammate Zion Williamson didn’t lose their sixth game until falling to Michigan State in the Elite Eight, 68-67, in Washington, D.C.
The year before?
Barrett didn’t lose a single game, leading Montverde to a perfect 35-0 record en route to winning the GEICO High School Nationals and every major National Player of the Year award.
In May, Montverde coach Kevin Boyle said Barrett was "arguably the best player" in the Draft.
People forget that R.J. Barrett was the USA Today Player of the Year," Boyle said. "It's almost like you're not allowed to mention it because that would be not pleasing to Zion."
Barrett is now averaging 18.3 points, 6.1 rebounds and 3.3 assists and is in the early mix for NBA Rookie of the Year as his former teammate Zion Williamson sits 6-8 weeks after knee surgery.
He has not shown frustration and has instead displayed the exuberance of a young player who loves the game.
When coach David Fizdale was criticized for playing Barrett too many minutes, Barrett downplayed it.
Yet his team has dropped four straight and owns the NBA’s worst record.
All of this losing is new for Barrett, who hasn’t done much of it in recent years.
“We’ve got more basketball to go,” he said after the team lost at home to the Kings on Sunday. “Everything that has happened already is only in everybody’s mind. Moving forward we could turn it all the way around and nobody would even remember that we had this bad start.”
Fizdale has used five different lineups in eight games, and with the point guard situation in flux, he has used Barrett at the point for extended stints.
"That's literally been the biggest challenge, just figuring out who plays well together, what combinations go well together, while you're in the heat of the battle trying to win games," Fizdale told reporters. "That has definitely been one of the toughest challenges, but we expected that to be one of the toughest challenges. When you add that many new faces, we knew that trying to figure this group out was going to take a minute.
"But we're learning something every day, every game about this group: about who plays well together, what pieces fit well together. And hopefully once we can establish that, guys can really get into a groove, into a rhythm, settle in and play."
