
# 2020 Ford Mach-E: Mustang-inspired EV spied wearing minimal camouflage

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:42:35+00:00**

Author: **Scott Collie**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/806420/2020-ford-mach-e-spied/)

- shares
The all-electric Ford Mach-E crossover has been spied wearing nothing but a skimpy wrap, as the Blue Oval gears up for its launch on November 17.
Ford has teased Mustang-inspired SUV with a number of shadowy sketches, but this is our first proper look at the electric crossover in production spec.
Up front, the Mach-E has a closed-over grille and slim, aggressive headlamps clearly inspired by those of the current Mustang. There's also a hint of Nissan Ariya Concept about the headlamps.
The Mustang inspiration is even stronger at the rear, where Ford has given its first pure-electric SUV a set of pumped-up guards and transplanted the two-door muscle car's taillights.
Although it's covered at the moment, we could see a gloss black trim piece linking the taillights – once again, inspired by the Mustang.
As with electric crossovers like the Tesla Model X and Audi e-tron, it appears the Mach-E will get a sloping roofline to aid aerodynamics and, by extension, range.
When it goes on sale in the USA next year, the Mach-E will have a claimed driving range of around 595km on the more stringent WLTP test cycle. That puts it ahead of the Tesla Model X, which only manages 580km on the lenient NEDC test cycle, and cars like the Audi e-tron (400km on WLTP).
Described as an "all-electric performance SUV", the Mach-E is expected to spawn more powerful variants after launch.
Ford says Mach-E owners will have access to a charging network of 12,000 high-speed public locations, with more than 35,000 charge points in North America.
The car will support 120V and 240V home outlets if you're happy to charge more slowly, although the company will also offer a 'Connected Charge Station' home fast charger.
The Mach-E will be launched on November 17 in the USA. Stay tuned for more in the lead up to its launch.
It remains to be seen if the Mach-E will be offered in Australia, with no official word on offer ahead of the electric SUV's unveiling.
So far, the company has limited its local electrification plans to the upcoming Escape plug-in hybrid, but a push towards a wider EV offering could kick off with a model like the Mach-E. CarAdvice has contacted Ford Australia.

        Click on the images for the full gallery.
      
110
nextprevious2020 Ford Mach-E: Mustang-inspired EV spied wearing minimal camouflage
