
# Penang govt calls for RFP on development of resort at Batu Ferringhi

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:55:08+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/penang-govt-calls-rfp-development-resort-batu-ferringhi)

GEORGE TOWN (Nov 4): The state government has called for a Request for Proposal (RFP) for the development of a coastal resort and spa in Batu Ferringhi here.
Penang Chief Minister Chow Kon Yeow today said the period to submit the RFP for the project which was opened to both local and international bidders was between Nov 1 and Dec 31.
“The 16,997 sq m land (allocated for the proposed coastal resort and spa project) was previously used as a tsunami relocation site,” he told a press conference here adding that a site visit would be held on Nov 21.
Chow said that the RFP was for a private entity to design, build and operate for a lease period of 30 years, with an option to renew for two consecutive 30-year terms.
“The private entity must have a minimum paid-up capital of RM5 million. The overall project is estimated to cost between RM10 million and RM100 million depending on the number of proposed rooms,” he said.
Chow said the proposed coastal resort and spa development project was different from the proposal to reclaim 300-acre (121.41-hectare) off the coast of Batu Ferringhi and Tanjung Bungah by a private property developer.
He also confirmed that the state government had received the reclamation proposal from a local company, but had yet to make any decision on the matter.
“The state can (still) decide to turn down the proposal...(but) if the state is interested, we might call for an RFP to invite more proposals from other companies,” he said.
On Oct 30, Citizen Awareness Chant Group advisor Yan Lee had asked the state government to come clean over the proposed reclamation project for a high-end mixed development project. — Bernama
