
# PICS: Dr John Kani's legendary career honoured at exclusive event

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:00:38+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/The-Juice/News/pics-dr-john-kanis-legendary-career-honoured-at-exclusive-event-20191101)

Nikita Coetzee
Johannesburg – Empowaworx and The Speakers Firm honoured legendary actor Dr John Kani on Thursday, sharing some of his life's work with a special performance. 
The star, who has recently taken on international roles like Rafiki in The Lion King and T'Chaka in Black Panther, joined an audience at the John Kani Theatre at the Market Theatre complex in Johannesburg. 
Guests were treated to a production put together by James Ncgobo, depicting some of the plays/roles that Dr Kani has taken on throughout his career.
At the end of the evening, the veteran actor was honoured with a bust presented to him by the Empowaworx team. 
Taking to the stage to give thanks, Dr Kani said he was privileged to see other actors speak words from plays that he had written and take on roles that he had done in the past. 
"I looked around, and I just felt like James (Ncgobo) is a good man," he said, adding: "Do these people really look up to me? Then I am blessed. I am truly blessed."
On why they chose to honour Dr Kani, Empowaworx said it was essential to recognise legends while they are still around.
"As South Africans, we have the tendency to celebrate our icons when they are no longer with us. And it is because of this that we as Empowaworx and The Speakers Firm have designed an offering with the sole purpose of honouring and paying tribute to our legends such as Dr John Kani for their creativity and their contribution to the industry."  
   
