
# I’m Here To Tell You We Sold The Company

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Spiegelman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paulspiegelman/2019/11/04/im-here-to-tell-you-we-sold-the-company/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

“I’m here to tell you that we sold the company.” Those were the words that Kris Maynard, CEO and Co-Founder of Essential Ingredients, said to a room packed with loyal employees who were gathered under the pretense of a 15-year anniversary party. Instead, their trusted leadership team had just broken the news that everything was about to change — or so it seemed.
“There was a gasp in the room when I said it,” says Maynard. “Then I told them that the new owners were in fact in the room with us today, and I’d like to introduce them. I asked the new owners of Essential Ingredients to please stand up.”
Everyone began to look around, waiting for the new owners to make themselves known. But instead, Kris looked to the front row of the audience and asked a long-time warehouseman to please stand up. He asked him how long he’d been with the company, and then he asked him to remain standing. Next, Kris looked across the room to  one of their beloved receptionists, and asked her to stand and share how long she’d been with the company. One by one, Kris continued this line of questioning until a large group of employees were standing up throughout the room. Finally, he revealed what was really going on. 
“I’d like to introduce you to the new owners of Essential Ingredients, and that’s all of you.” 
After several years of research and consulting, Kris and his two partners were ready to convert Essential Ingredients to an Employee Stock Ownership Program (ESOP) and sell the company to its employees. After announcing it to the team, the 15th anniversary party quickly turned into a crash course on employee ownership and a day of education around what this decision meant for all of them.
“It was one of the most fun and meaningful moments of my career,” says Maynard. “We spent the next few days really explaining the program and why we did it. We could’ve sold to a competitor or private equity firm, but we didn’t want the people who helped us build this business to wind up as collateral damage.”
Essential Ingredients has grown exponentially since that moment in 2011. A chemical distribution company, Essential Ingredients provides raw materials to every corner of the United States, finishing last year with over $114 million in revenue. It has 85 employees across its five distribution centers and Atlanta headquarters, and in 2017, Essential Ingredients was named a Forbes Small Giant: Best Small Companies in America. 
But Maynard refuses to rattle off that list of achievements without reinforcing what the purpose of the business really is: to be a blessing to others and inspire others to be a blessing as well. With his sights set on building a 100-year company, Essential Ingredients intends to remain independent and live out this purpose for decades to come. 
Essential Ingredients embarked on this mission in the mid-1990s, when the idea of a purpose-driven business was more novel — especially in the competitive space of consumer goods. Chemical distribution is a very consolidated environment, and Essential Ingredients is in direct competition with global, multi-billion dollar organizations. It’s an easily commoditized business, but Kris doesn’t try to keep up with his competitors on price or logistics capabilities.
“We’re smaller, but that allows us to be more nimble. Our job is to make sure our customers get tremendous service from us,” says Maynard. “We sell relationships, not chemicals. We’re really focused on the people side of the business. When I spend time with our customers and suppliers and ask what they appreciate about us, it’s the warm relationships that we bring to bear, on top of our expertise in the field.”
In starting the business, Kris and his Co-Founder, Chris Gerlach, took a bootstrapped approach that many entrepreneurs can relate to. Kris came from a chemical manufacturer, while Chris had experience in chemical distribution. Both had newborn daughters at home, and had to provide plenty of reassurance to their wives as they quit their jobs to start a business together. They found a local business incubator in town, but they couldn’t afford a real office — so they convinced the owner to rent them the server closet for $125 per month. It had enough space for the bare necessities: a desk, a telephone, and a sample shelf. They sprung for two Skytel pagers, replaced their company cars with affordable, used vehicles, and off they went. 
“In the early days, we drafted our mission and beliefs to help chart the course,” says Maynard. “It worked when we were small, but after we surpassed 30 or 40 people, it became difficult for people to articulate who we really were. In 2015, we started the process of restating our core values and including everyone in that exercise.”
Relationships have always been at the foundation of Essential Ingredients, but as they grew, they had to do the work of articulating the purpose, values, and vision that would guide the company’s path forward. Especially in an industry that often pulls in the opposite direction, they would need clear processes in place to keep culture and relationships as the heart of the business. They had to do more than simply define who they were: they also had to create clarity and alignment for every team member, in every location.
“Especially with a distributed workforce, we need to cultivate clarity — and to have clarity, you need communication,” says Maynard. “If you walk into our office on a Monday morning, you’ll find our team huddled around a television screen, meeting with team members around the country about where we are and what’s going on with the company.”Along with company-wide huddles, every department holds its own huddles throughout the week. But Kris says that clarity isn’t enough, you also need alignment. The entire team needs to be on the same page about where the company is headed and how they’re going to get there. Part of that alignment comes from open-book management: Essential Ingredients is a financially-transparent company, and Kris credits much of their success to the employee ownership mentality. 
Over the past two decades, Kris has kept a relentless focus on cultivating the success of others: customers, suppliers, and employees. He’s learned that if he focuses on the success of others, the company’s success is a natural by-product. To this day, his favorite thing about Essential Ingredients is creating a work environment that provides a pathway for employees to utilize their giftedness. 
“Company culture is a programmatic process that requires thought and intention,” says Maynard. “Think of it like a garden — if the gardener walks away for a few days, you’re going to get weeds and pests. It takes hard work, but we view it as one of our most essential duties.”
To hear more of Kris’s story and interviews with other purpose-driven leaders, subscribe to my Growing with Purpose podcast.
