
# Apple’s Radical New iPhone Suddenly Takes Shape

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/11/05/apple-iphone-2020-design-5g-upgrade-iphone-11-pro-max-update/)

Apple played safe with its (intelligently upgraded) iPhone 11 series and the result is a rock solid range which gets the basics right. But they don’t quicken pulse rates like what is coming next. 

        Apple iOS 13.2 Release: Should You Upgrade? [Updated]Forbes Gordon Kelly
      
Following a series of leaks (1,2,3,4,5), we know a lot about Apple’s plans to launch a radically redesigned 2020 iPhone and now expert render artists at PhoneArena have put them all together for the first time. 
The big takeaways are Apple’s repeatedly leaked plans to return the so-called iPhone 12 to a boxier design akin to the iPhone 4, as well as shrinking the notch. Apple is also adding an additional Time Of Flight (ToF) camera (like most rivals) with Bloomberg detailing the inclusion of long-range 3D capabilities to the primary camera to enable the mapping of surroundings up to 15 feet away. A feature designed to boost augmented reality apps. 
Flaws? I understand that there won’t be a fourth camera because a ToF sensor is tiny and 3D will come to the primary lens, so the existing triple array will appear largely unchanged. That said, PhoneArena does a superb job of illustrating the broad brushstrokes of what we can expect. 

        Apple's 2020 iPhone Restores Touch ID, New Patents Add DetailForbes Gordon Kelly
      
And what PhoneArena can’t show, are the mass of internal changes Apple also has planned. Perhaps the biggest is the inclusion of 5G on every model, though the return of Touch ID could prove just as popular along with ProMotion displays. The long-awaited switch to USB-C from Lightning should also prove popular in tempting Android owners to switch camps. 
The one fly in the ointment is cost, with reports breaking earlier this week that all these upgrades could result in major price hikes. But if Apple can keep this down, the 2020 iPhone may just be one of the most exciting iPhones in years. 
___

        More On Forbes
      
