
# WGC-HSBC Champions: Rory McIlroy beats Xander Schauffele in play-off to win in China

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:53:46+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BBC Sport](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/golf/50280014)


        Northern Ireland's Rory McIlroy has won the WGC-HSBC Champions in Shanghai after a play-off.
      
The 30-year-old beat defending champion Xander Schauffele after the pair were tied at 19 under par after four rounds.
Schauffele, 26, sunk a six-foot birdie putt on the last to force the play-off with the four-time major champion.
In the first play-off hole McIlroy's birdie was enough to secure his fourth title of the year after the American could only make par.
McIlroy, who went bogey-free over the final two rounds, could only par on the 18th in round four after a poor drive and missed a 25-footer to take an outright victory at Sheshan International.
"I got lucky in regulation not to go in the water and then it was a relief to hit those two shots in the play-off," McIlroy said of his approach in the play-off, after winning his 26th worldwide title.
He added: "It was a perfect [yardage] for a four-iron back into the wind a little bit.
"You've got to take everything else out of the equation and just hit the shot."
American Schauffele, who would have been the first player to retain the title had he won, started the day two shots back but a final-round six-under 66 brought him level with the world number two.
However, after being unable to match McIlroy in the play-off he admitted: "When he's on, I'd say he's arguably the best player in the world."
South African Louis Oosthuizen's fourth round 69 was enough to secure him third place, two shots behind the leaders.
England's Matthew Fitzpatrick, who led after the second round, had a mixed Sunday which included an eagle, two birdies and three bogeys to finish on 14 under and fifth on the leaderboard.
Meanwhile, Victor Perez, Matthias Schwab and Abraham Ancer finished tied for fourth on 15 under.
