
# The best Google Pixel 3a & 3a XL deals

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:48:00+00:00**

Author: **Ashleigh Macro**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/news/mobile-phone/google-pixel-3a-xl-deals-3696459/)

The Google Pixel 3a and 3a XL, first announced in Spring at the company's I/O event in California, became available to buy as of 8 May, 2019. We've scoured the internet to bring you the very best Pixel 3a and 3a XL deals in the UK.
Google's new mid-range phones are more affordable than ever, at almost half the price of the Pixel 3. They have a familiar design with the two-tone finish on the rear like the Pixel 3, available in Clearly White, Just Black and Purple-ish. There are a few downgrades such as a lack of waterproofing and wireless charging, but for those looking for a Pixel phone at a lower price, you've got it.
Read our reviews of the Pixel 3a and Pixel 3a XL, plus find out how the new model compares with the Pixel 3 in our Pixel 3a vs Pixel 3 comparison. You can also see the best cases for the Pixel 3a and 3a XL phones here.
If you'd like to see what deals are out there for the latest Google phone, take a look at our Pixel 4 deals. 
SIM-free, the Pixel 3a is priced at a very reasonable £399 ($399 in the US) and the Pixel 3a XL at £469/$479. You can pick up a model of each of these straight from the Google Store.
Before we dig into individual deals, below you'll find a quick overview of where you can buy the Pixel 3a phones in the UK.
We've picked out the best deals on the 64GB model of the Pixel 3a below. We've chosen a variety of plans to help you find a contract that suits you best.
Unlimited data: Vodafone, unlimited data, unlimited texts and minutes, 99p upfront cost, £35.00 per month. View deal at mobiles.co.uk
All-rounder: EE, 9GB data, unlimited texts and minutes, no upfront cost, £29 per month. View deal at Carphone Warehouse.
Loads of data: EE, 30GB data, unlimited texts and minutes, £29.99 upfront cost, £33 per month. View deal at Carphone Warehouse. 
You can compare all the best and latest deals in our tool below (they will appear as they are announced or become available, so if you don't see any yet check back later for a full comparison). If you're unable to see the tool, click here to reload this page.
If you're after the slightly more expensive but more powerful Pixel 3a XL, we've also got plenty of deals to share.
All rounder with data: O2, 45GB data, unlimited texts and calls, no upfront cost, Save £186 cashback by redemption, £29.25 per month. View deal at Affordable Mobiles. 
Even more data: Vodafone, unlimited lite data, texts and calls, 5G, £50 upfront cost, £32 per month. View deal at Mobiles.co.uk. 
You can compare all the best and latest deals in our tool below (they will appear as they are announced or become available, so if you don't see any yet check back later for a full comparison). If you're unable to see the tool, click here to reload this page.
