
# 'I was his biggest fan', Pitso sends message to sacked Benni

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/i-was-his-biggest-fan-pitso-sends-message-to-sacked-benni-20191106)

Cape Town - Pitso Mosimane has expressed his sadness that Benni McCarthy has lost his job as head coach of Cape Town City.
McCarthy was given the boot on Monday with the Citizens having made a poor start to the season with only one victory in nine league matches.
Mosimane reveals that he admired McCarthy's team played during his two-and-half-years in charge of the Cape club.
"I am very, very saddened by the Benni McCarthy sacking. I was his biggest fan, admiring how he taught his team to play the right way of playing football. His team could build-up play from the back like what big teams do in Europe (Man City, Bayern, Liverpool etc)," Mosimane said on his Twitter account.
The Mamelodi Sundowns mentor went on to say that he hoped McCarthy is not lost to South African football.
"A typical example of his work was the goal that Cape Town City scored against Kaizer Chiefs. A coaching clip for coaches and those who believe in good football. A big loss to SA football and I hope he remains in the PSL to transfer his philosophy to another team," Mosimane continued.
The former Bafana Bafana coach believes that players around the country and Africa went on to play for City because of McCarthy's status in world football.
"Some players went to play for Cape Town City just to play for him. A very good coach and I salute you Benni. You can walk away with pride especially after delivering a trophy in just a year an half," he said.
Meanwhile, according to reports, Muhsin Ertugral is expected to have a strong chance of becoming the new City coach whereas McCarthy is touted to head north to Johannesburg for talks with Orlando Pirates.
