
# Booker Prize Winner ‘Girl, Woman, Other’ Is Coming to America

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:00:09+00:00**

Author: **Concepción de León**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/books/bernardine-evaristo-girl-woman-other-booker-prize.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

The morning after Bernardine Evaristo won the Booker Prize, for her novel “Girl, Woman, Other,” her American publisher, Grove Atlantic, announced that the book would come out in the United States a month earlier than previously scheduled — and that it was printing 50,000 more copies, up from an initial run of 10,000.
Now the book is set for release here on Nov. 5, and while it is Evaristo’s eighth novel, for many American readers it will be their first exposure to her work. “Girl, Woman, Other” is written in a mix of poetry and prose that she calls “fusion fiction,” featuring a dozen interconnected characters who are mostly black British women but varied in age, class, sexuality and gender.
It was an effort, she said, to show through these women, “We are all things and everything. You cannot dismiss us, nor can you easily define us.”
Evaristo is the first black woman to win the Booker, one of the world’s most prestigious literary awards, though this year’s prize made news for another reason as well: The judges, unable to choose one winner, gave it to her and Margaret Atwood, for her “Handmaid’s Tale” sequel “The Testaments.” That prompted a backlash among some of Evaristo’s fans who felt the split decision undermined her historic achievement.
She disagrees. “I don’t actually feel that the impact of the prize has been lessened for me,” she said. “No single book is the best book in the world anyway.”
Evaristo was born in London in 1959 to a white English mother and a Nigerian father. She initially studied acting but grew frustrated with the dearth of plays by or about black women. “It made sense to start writing,” she said.
A few days after the prize was announced, her voice worn down from nonstop interviews, she talked about experimentation and activism in her work, writing complicated older women and why it’s not quite right to say “Girl, Woman, Other” is a book about 12 black British women.

        This interview has been edited and condensed.
      

        Can you talk to me about why you wrote this book and where the idea came from?
      
I just had this idea that I would put as many women as I could into a single book and somehow connect it all through x degrees of separation and see what happened with that. In a sense, you could almost call it an activist novel. I don’t feel, as a black British woman writer, that I would want to write a book just because I want to explore something about the human race. My mission is to write about the African diaspora. That’s what I’ve done with all my books. And so focusing on 12 black British women was my way of addressing our invisibility and also exploring our heterogeneity. There are probably about 800,000 black British women, and we’re all different.

        How did you approach writing a novel with so many characters while making sure they were fully fleshed out?
      
It’s an experimental novel where each woman has her own space, and that’s what’s so important. I think the form is very important, because they’re not short stories, it is a single novel. Everybody is interconnected and interrelated. But you go through the sorts of consciousness and lives of all of these different women as you read them. You encounter one, then you encounter their child or their mother or their friend, and then you encounter maybe a schoolteacher and then her mother and then her work friend.

        The book was written in poetry and prose but also seemed to have some elements of playwriting. What were your influences in terms of format and structure?
      
I might track back in fact to “For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf,” by Ntozake Shange. I think I might have seen that in 1979. She wrote about seven black women and their lives.
I found “For Colored Girls” very inspiring as a young woman in Britain. Seven black women onstage — amazing. That had never happened before.

        Why does the number of women matter? Why did it feel important to have nearly a dozen women in “Girl, Woman, Other”?
      
Black British history is very different to American history. We do go back 2,000 years to the Romans, which is something I wrote about in one of my books, but from the middle of the 20th century, we saw the big wave of migration that began. My father migrated from Nigeria in 1949, and still today we get waves of migration from different countries. We come from all over Africa, we come from all over the Caribbean. We’re kind of recent in terms of our own personal histories, although not in terms of black presence in this country. I wanted to explore that. I wanted to explore different sexualities. Women are on the queer spectrum, some of them. I wanted to explore class. The idea of, you’re born into one class in this very class-obsessed society that I live in, and then you move out of it. And also ages — the youngest is 19, the oldest is 93, and there’s every generation in between.
All of these things I was able to explore to some degree through 12 characters. I would not have been able to do that with two characters.

        To your point about wanting to present a heterogeneous group of women, I wonder to what extent the women presented in the novel are a reflection of the variety of women in your life?
      
Amma is loosely based on my younger self. Dominique is similar to the women I mixed with, theater women in the ’80s. Yazz is a version of one of my goddaughters. I know teachers, my mother was a teacher. I know nonbinary people. So I am respectively drawing on the people I know, but I’m also drawing on everyone I’ve ever known. Because we create character from how we absorb the people in our lives and the people we observe and the people we hear about.
I really like being around young people. I like the fact that they’re seeing the world differently, and that especially young black feminists — this is a world full of possibility for them. I like to be connected to every generation. I don’t think I could have written the young women in the novel in the way that I did if I didn’t have connections with young people.

        Quite a few of the women in the book are middle-aged. Why was age diversity important for you?
      
Because older women are hardly ever written about in fiction, let alone older black women, even when the writers are older women. It’s like we are fixated with youth, yet in my opinion older women are so interesting. Have lived long lives. Have so much to say and to offer. I wanted my older women to have agency, to be complicated. Through writing their imperfections I made them very real. All of those things that they get up to, those secrets that they keep and so on, is really about me strengthening them as characters. I don’t want any character to come over as predictable or as a stereotype — the earth mother, the suffering but strong black woman. People may see bits of that, but I don’t think you can define any of those women in any simple ways. They are made up of many things. They have multiple identities. We are multidimensional as humans.

        I wanted to clarify one last thing: The book has been described, sometimes by you, as being about 12 black women. But there’s a nonbinary character …
      
It’s just so easy to say 12 black British women, because it just slips off the tongue. I sometimes might write it as 12 black British women with an “x.” So W-O-M-X-N, which is kind of women of color inclusive and trans inclusive, so then it embraces all the women. Other people as a shorthand say 12 black British women, but that’s not the truth.

        Follow New York Times Books on 
        
          Facebook
        
        , 
        
          Twitter
        
         and 
        
          Instagram
        
        , sign up for 
        
          our newsletter
        
         or 
        
          our literary calendar
        
        . And listen to us on the 
        
          Book Review podcast
        
        .
      

        Continue reading the main story
      
