
# EastEnders spoilers: Mel Owen attacks Lisa Fowler as revenge drama escalates

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:30:22+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/eastenders-spoilers-mel-owen-attacks-20837733)

Things take a violent turn for Mel Owen and best friend Lisa Fowler in the next episode of EastEnders.
With Mel's revenge against the Mitchells escalating, Lisa steps in only to pay the price when Mel attacks her.
The troubled character is seen hitting her friend across the face in front of everyone in the Square.
It comes as Lisa finally tires of her recent behaviour, with Mel continuing to suffocate Lisa's pregnant daughter Louise Mitchell - trying to get her, Lisa and Keanu Taylor to flee to Portugal with her.
But her behaviour, including her brutal blackmailing of Sharon Mitchell, is only gaining her more enemies.
Lisa grows tired of Mel trying to act like Louise's mother, recently buying the character a car for her eighteenth birthday, while also meddling in her life.
She ends up giving her close friend some home truths, hitting out at her, but she's not expecting the reaction.
As Lisa tells her to back off, Mel slaps her across the face with absolutely no remorse.
Onlookers including Lola Pearce look shocked by the incident, while Lisa herself is seen reeling - but what will it mean for the characters gong forward?
It comes after fans predicted Lisa might team up with son-in-law Keanu to take Mel down - with Mel currently threatening to expose his secret affair with Louise's stepmother Sharon, along with the fact he's the real father of her unborn baby.
Lisa and Keanu were not impressed with Mel getting Louise a car, unable to compete with Mel's extravagant gifting.
Mel even mocked Keanu's sweet bracelet, containing Louise's birth stone, claiming it was small.
As Keanu looked more and more angry, he wasn't the only one as Lisa also had a face like thunder.
It was clear neither character was up for taking Mel's behaviour any longer.
With Keanu and Sharon's affair and baby secret soon to be exposed, and rumours of a deadly car crash for Mel, it looks as though things are about to get explosive.

        EastEnders airs Mondays and Fridays at 8pm, and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30pm on BBC One.
      
