
# Keir Starmer: Tories' doctored TV footage is 'act of desperation'

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:32:11+00:00**

Author: **Jim Waterson, Rajeev Syal**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/media/2019/nov/05/tories-unrepentant-about-doctored-video-of-keir-starmer-tv-appearance)

Shadow Brexit secretary says edit of Good Morning Britain interview has backfired
Keir Starmer has accused the Conservatives of “an act of desperation that backfired” after footage of the shadow Brexit secretary was doctored to show him unable to answer a question on Labour’s Brexit position.
In the Tory version of an interview with ITV’s Good Morning Britain, produced by the party for its social media channels, Starmer is shown unable to speak after being asked about Labour’s position on the EU, with his face appearing under the caption “Labour has no plan for Brexit”.
In reality, the shadow Brexit secretary did provide a lengthy answer regarding his discussions with other EU countries over the past three years and insisted: “A customs union and single market alignment and protection of workers’ rights and environmental rights and consumer rights is something that can be negotiated.”
The Good Morning Britain presenter Piers Morgan said that Starmer’s answer may have been “unconvincing” but the way the video was edited by the Tories was “misleading and unfair”.
Speaking on Wednesday at a campaign event in Lambeth, south London, Starmer said political parties should not get involved in doctoring videos of their political opponents. “I actually saw it as an act of desperation. It is only when you think things are not going well that you get involved in those sorts of activities.
“I think this particular matter has backfired for the Conservatives because they have spent all morning trying to defend what they did,” he told the Guardian.
After being called out on the party’s decision to edit the video, the Conservative party failed to apologise and appeared to revel in the extra attention. Its press office encouraged more people to watch the original “car-crash interview” on Good Morning Britain.
