
# Kind bridesmaid makes dresses for pal's wedding - but trolls slam neon designs

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:04:41+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/kind-bridesmaid-makes-dresses-pals-20827578)

When it comes to weddings, no two are exactly alike.
Couples have very different preferences and people pick different themes and colour schemes for their big day. For example, some may opt for pastel tones at their wedding, while others might want something a little brighter.
One bride recently decided to go for a bold, rather psychadelic theme at her wedding, with both her dress and the bridesmaid gowns featuring a funky neon pattern.
A photo of the unique outfits has been shared in a wedding shaming group on Facebook where it has garnered a lot of attention.
 
According to the post, the dresses were kindly made by one of the bridesmaids, who works in deisgn.
They claim she is known for using "colourful, mix-matchy patterns" in her clothing.
However the woman's sweet gesture for her friend went unnoticed by cruel trolls in the group, who slammed the retro-looking outfits.
One person said: "1989 called, they want their fabric back..."
 
A different user joked that the fabric could "cause seizures".
Someone else commented that the dresses reminded them of a "strip club carpet".
"Definitely not my cup of tea," added a fourth person.
However not everyone was completely against to the look. Another Facebook user stated that while they wouldn't have the dresses at their wedding, they weren't totally opposed to them.
