
# Flagg scores 22 points, Texas A&M wins in Williams’ debut

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/6/flagg-scores-22-points-texas-am-wins-in-williams-d/)

COLLEGE STATION, Texas (AP) - Savion Flagg scored 22 points as Texas A&M; started the Buzz Williams era with a 77-63 victory over Northwestern State on Wednesday night.
Flagg, a junior forward and the team’s top returning player, made 9 of 11 shots from the field in Texas A&M;’s opener.
The Aggies shot 56 percent (28 of 50) from the floor, compared to 34 percent (25 of 73) by the Demons. A&M; also overwhelmed NSU (1-1) inside, holding a 44-20 advantage in points in the paint.
Nikos Chougkaz led the Demons with 12 points. Quenton Jackson scored 13 points for the Aggies and Jay Jay Chandler added 11 for A&M.; The teams were about even in turnovers, with the Aggies committing 14 and the Demons committing 13. Chandler had a game-high five of A&M;’s 14 turnovers.
Williams, a native Texan, came to Texas A&M; from Virginia Tech, where he led the Hokies to a school-record three consecutive NCAA Tournaments in his five seasons there.
BIG PICTURE
Texas A&M;: The Aggies were a little slow out of the gate in the Williams debut but eventually began playing the style of ball that made him a winner at Marquette and Virginia Tech. Reed Arena was about a quarter full for his first game, but as Williams has said, winning consistently will bring fans.
Northwestern State: The Demons were quickly brought back to earth by their SEC opponent after opening the season with an 84-57 thumping at home of Centenary on Tuesday. Despite the 14-point loss Wednesday, the Demons know taking on this kind of competition early will help them in Southland Conference play starting next month.
UP NEXT
The Aggies stay home to face Louisiana-Monroe on Monday.
Northwestern State hosts Rice on Tuesday.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
