
# Canelo Alvarez vs Sergey Kovalev TV channel, live stream, undercard and UK start time

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/canelo-alvarez-vs-sergey-kovalev-20788645)

Canelo Alvarez will bid to cement his position as one of the best pound-for-pound fighters in the world when he takes on Sergey Kovalev tonight.
The Mexican has already won world titles at light-middleweight, middleweight and super-middleweight and tonight bids to do the same at light-heavyweight.
Kovalev, meanwhile, is fighting for the second time in just over two months after his penultimate round stoppage of Anthony Yarde in August.
The Brit almost stopped Kovalev in the ninth round but the champion rallied to cling on to his belt.
Kovalev insists he will be too big and strong for Canelo but the Russian will walk to the Las Vegas ring as the underdog.
Here is everything you need to know about tonight's fights...
The main event will start at around 5am UK time.
The fights will be shown on Sky Sports Action from 1am in the UK.
Sky Sports customers can stream the fights through the Sky Go app or the website.
Ryan Garcia vs Romero Duno
Bakhram Murtazaliev vs Jorge Fortea
Seniesa Estrada vs Marlen Esparza
Blair Cobbs vs Carlos Ortiz Cervantes
Meiirim Nursultanov vs Cristian Olivas
Evan Holyfield vs Nick Winstead
Canelo Alvarez 1/4
Sergey Kovalev 10/3
Barry McGuigan has delivered his verdict on tonight's main event... Saul ‘Canelo’ Alvarez has his eyes on history. He not only wants to become a four division world champion, he is jumping two divisions to challenge for a light heavyweight title, which is pretty much unheard of among Mexican fighters.
Canelo is a hall-of-famer no doubt, and has identified a fading, 36-year-old Sergey Kovalev as the perfect foe, the right man in the right place at the right time.
Though Kovalev lost the WBO title twice, initially to Andre Ward in his first defeat as a pro, he regained in avenging his shock loss to Eleider Alvarez.
The defeat to Alvarez marked a low point and highlighted the dissolute lifestyle issues that had finally caught up with him.
Kovalev Ward ‘I’ three years ago was close, He dropped Ward before losing by decision. In the rematch seven months later Kovalev appeared to capitulate too easily.
It was a mental disintegration as much as physical. It looked like he did not want to continue. Ward is a once in a lifetime talent so it does not mean Kovalev was not a great fighter.
After the Alvarez disaster in April last year Kovalev turned to Buddy McGirt, a no-nonsense character who appears to have turned things around.
After winning back the WBO belt in the rematch in February, Kovalev added big hitting Anthony Yarde to his list of victims in August.
That showed that he was at least half decent back in shape, and that the chin held up. Though he does not punch as hard as Yarde, Canelo is way more accomplished and will test Kovalev in every department.
My worry is Kovalev does not make the weight easily and does not take shots to the body as well as he did.
Kovalev is the bigger specimen but Canelo is the fresher. Kovalev’s Achilles heel is the body. Canelo’s strength is his body punching so you can see how this might play out.
However, if Alvarez can’t find him and has to walk in and take chances Kovalev is well in the match.
Canelo is a strong favourite here but don't be surprised if Kovalev has him over and takes it to the wire. So there is jeopardy in it for both.
Ultimately Kovalev is going up a level here in intensity, pressure and sense of occasion. And that’s a whole different ball game.
Either way the big fights just keep coming demonstrating how this should be seen as a golden period for boxing.
