
# 'Dare I say it' - Leeds United told to complete this transfer by former Aston Villa striker

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:29:48+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/leeds-united-hull-bowen-transfer-17198504)

Former Aston Villa striker Kevin Phillips thinks there is one potential January signing which could make all the difference to Leeds United’s promotion bid.
The Whites are currently level on points with Preston North End and Swansea City at the top of the Championship – although that could change after West Bromwich Albion’s clash against Stoke City on Monday night.
Marcelo Bielsa’s side have banked 28 points from 15 matches so far as they look to go one better than last season having been beaten in the play-offs in May.
They have the best defensive record in the league – conceding just eight times so far – but Phillips thinks an addition to boost their options at the other end of the pitch could push them to the Premier League.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
According to the former England international, who also played for Birmingham City and West Brom, Hull City star Jarrod Bowen would be an ideal signing.
The 22-year-old has already scored nine goals this season, with his latest strike helping the Tigers to a superb 3-0 win against Fulham at the weekend.
Leeds’ top scorer, Arsenal loanee Eddie Nketiah, has scored five this term while Patrick Bamford has four.
 
The Elland Road side have been linked with Bowen before and Phillips reckons he should be a target when the window re-opens.
“He’s a quality player and there’s a lot of talk about him moving on. His movement is very good and his technical ability. He’s a player who is going places,” he told Quest.
“Dare I say it, put him in the Leeds team in January and he might be the difference between them getting promoted or not.”
