
# Delph wants Everton to create ‘winning mentality’

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:18:00+00:00**

Author: **By Press Association**

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/sport/delph-wants-everton-to-create-winning-mentality-961393.html)

Everton midfielder Fabian Delph has stressed the need for the Toffees to build momentum as they prepare to host Tottenham on Sunday.
The Merseyside outfit halted a run of four successive Premier League defeats by beating West Ham 2-0 at Goodison Park on October 19, before losing 3-2 at Brighton last weekend.
They went on to register a 2-0 home win against Watford in the fourth round of the Carabao Cup on Tuesday.
And Delph told evertontv: “I felt we did very well on Tuesday, especially in the last 30 minutes, and we got the result we needed, so we have positives to take into the game on Sunday.
“It is very important we generate that momentum. Once you get into a rhythm and start winning games it becomes second nature. You create that winning mentality.”
Delph, signed from Manchester City over the summer, was back in the starting line-up on Tuesday after recovering from a hamstring injury that saw the England player miss the last international break and the West Ham match. He also sat out Everton’s first three games this term due to a thigh problem.

        Manchester United director’s Saudi Arabia trip not related to potential takeover
      
“The season has been frustrating (personally),” the 29-year-old said.
“I was available for the game at Brighton but the lads got the three points against West Ham and it would have been very harsh to change the team.
“I was looking at the Watford game thinking, ‘I need to play a full 90 minutes, get that under my belt and play well’. I felt like I helped the team.
“I don’t feel as sharp as I have – I feel there is a lot more to come. But I am sure that will happen with game time.”
