
# KSI ‘ready to destroy’ Logan Paul as he vows to ‘drown’ YouTube rival

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:09:57+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/ksi-ready-destroy-logan-paul-20808302)

KSI has vowed to “destroy” Logan Paul in their boxing rematch.
The YouTubers are stepping up their preparations for Saturday’s pro bout at the Staples Center in Los Angeles.
KSI took time out of his Las Vegas training camp to watch Canelo Alvarez beat Sergey Kovalev at the MGM Grand at the weekend.
And he warned Paul that “he’s going to drown” in an expletive-filled interview with DAZN at the fight.
“I am ready to destroy that p***y Logan Paul,” KSI said.
“He just wants to look pretty in front of all his stupid little fan girls who think he will win this fight.
“When he gets in the ring with me, he’ll realise that I’m going to destroy him.
“There’s nothing he can do about it.
“I’m going to bring him into deep water and he’s going to drown in that m*********** – he won’t be ready.”
KSI also took the opportunity to taunt Paul over his no-show at Canelo vs Kovalev.
“The guy’s ducking me,” he added. “He was meant to be at this event.
“For me, it just shows that he doesn’t care about boxing or anything to do with the sport.”
The pair’s first fight last year ended in a controversial draw.
Paul dominated the early rounds before tiring, which allowed KSI to storm back late on.
He has vowed to go “straight in for the kill” in their rematch, however.
“I am f****** ready for this,” he added.
“With my last fight, I was scared of getting hit – I will admit that.
“I felt like a p***y and only stepped it up after rounds four of five.”
