
# White Sharks Hang Out In Clans

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Melissa Cristina Márquez**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/melissacristinamarquez/2019/11/04/white-sharks-hang-out-in-clans/)

Sharks are often depicted as these lone predators... which has been disproven time and time again for different species. Great white sharks (Carcharodon carcharias) are mostly solitary throughout their worldwide distribution but are known to aggregate in certain locations around the world each year to feed on calorie-rich seals and sea lions. Just because these sharks showed up to feast didn’t exactly mean social interactions were occurring but the latest find by researchers led by Adam Schilds of Flinders University shows that great white sharks may have cliques. Seriously.
Aggregations in sharks isn’t unheard of - just look at swimming groups of blacktip reef sharks (Carcharhinus melanopterus) or lemon sharks (Negaprion brevirostris)! Popular great white sharks aggregation sites include Seal Island, Gansbaai, and Mossel Bay in South Africa, Guadalupe Island off Mexico, the Chatham Islands off New Zealand, Cape Cod in Massachusetts, USA, and the Neptune Islands in Australia. Most of these sites have been suggested to provide important feeding grounds for the sharks, and are driven by seasonal availability and abundance of their prey.
That isn’t the case for the Neptune Islands, it seems. Things there are a little bit more complex. According to the study, “up to 20 white sharks can be observed at the Neptune Islands in a day, but the number of white shark using this aggregation site and sex ratio is highly variable over time.” The Neptune Islands are a popular tourism spot for people who want to dive with great whites within the safety of a cage, and abundance of white sharks peak in early winter to take advantage of inexperienced and more vulnerable weaned seal pups. However, white sharks can also be sighted throughout the year, including during periods of low seal abundance.
“For several years, white sharks cage-diving operators have noticed that some sharks were often arriving at the same time and sighted on the same day,” said Dr. Charlie Huveneers, Associate Professor at Flinders University and Research Leader of the Southern Shark Ecology Group. “We wanted to test whether these associations were real and if individual sharks were indeed more likely to be hanging out with some sharks more than others. Luckily, one of the cage-diving operators had consistently taken photo-ID of white sharks every time they operated across multiple years, providing us with an amazing dataset to scientifically test if these associations were real.”
Using a combination of photo-identification and network analysis based on co-occurrence of individuals visiting the site on the same day to elucidate the population structure and aggregatory behaviour of Australia’s largest aggregation of sub-adult and adult white sharks, the research team identified 282 sharks (183 males, 97 females, 2 of unknown sex) over a 4.5-year period (June 2010–November 2014). This led to the scientists showing, for the first time, that white sharks form non-random associations with their fellow great white sharks. In fact, they formed four distinct communities: two mixed-sex and two male-only.
The team were able to compare the empirically measured co-occurrence (which the team defined as the “spatio-temporal co-occurrence of individuals”) of these sharks at the Neptune Islands. “The empirical network reflects our observations of sharks being seen on the same day. The sharks that were seen on the same day (co-occurred) are connected in the network,” explained behavioural ecologist and co-author Dr. Stephan Leu from Macquarie University.
But what exactly is this network? “A network contains a large amount of information on nodes (i.e. individual sharks) and their connections (i.e. the frequency of their co-occurrences). The idea behind looking at community is to search for cryptic structure in the network and whether nodes tend to organize in groups with a high concentration of within group links, and a low concentration of between-group links,” said co-author Dr. Johann Mourier. “This organization is termed community structure, or clustering. It therefore helps to identify groups of sharks that are more often associated together than with the others of the networks.”
Leu added: “When sharks visit and use the Neptune Islands there is a chance that they may do so on the same day, even though these sharks have nothing to do with each other. Network analysis takes these chance events into account. By comparing the empirical, that is the observed network with networks that reflect these chance events, we are able to determine whether the observed co-occurrences are real.”
“Broadly, you’d expect all white sharks to match their presence with prey availability, but for some reason not all white sharks visit to and use of the Neptune Islands correspond to periods when seals are most abundant. Some individuals consistently occur when seal abundance is low and are often sighted on the same day, suggesting that these individuals respond to external drivers in the same way,” reiterated Huveneers. “We still don’t know why some individuals prefer summer and some individuals prefer winter or why some sharks like to hang out at the Neptune Islands together, but now we have empirical data to show that some sharks have non-random co-occurrences.”
So maybe the old adage of “you can’t sit (or swim, in this case) with us” from Mean Girls may apply to these sharks...
