
# 'Guaranteed fireworks' - Wolves receive double Aston Villa boost as Arsenal escape

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Dicken, https://www.facebook.com/alexdickenjournalist/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/guaranteed-fireworks-wolves-receive-double-17191807)

Wolverhampton Wanderers are now unbeaten in six Premier League matches after Raul Jimenez’s 11th goal of the campaign sealed a 1-1 draw with Arsenal. 
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang gave Arsenal the lead at The Emirates before Wolves fought back from a goal down again. 
Arsenal boss Unai Emery referred to that good ‘habit’ Wolves have in his post-match press conference and that’s where we start this week’s analysis. 
Both of the Premier League’s late goal specialists struck on Saturday. Liverpool scored twice in the final five minutes to defeat Aston Villa 2-1, and Jimenez scored in the 76th minute to earn Wolves a deserved point at Arsenal. 
Only Liverpool (30) have scored more goals than Wolves (23) in the final 15 minutes of Premier League matches since the beginning of last season. 
Jimenez has been Wolves’ biggest contributor to that statistic with eight of the 23 goals. 
Wolves have also shown considerable bouncebackability in the Premier League this season with their latest point on the road marking the sixth time the team has come from one goal down to draw 1-1.
 
Jimenez’s partnership with Diogo Jota - who made his 100th appearance for Wolves at The Emirates - has terrorised many a Premier League defence. But the return of 3-4-3 has seen the deadly duo become a trident with the introduction of rapid winger Adama Traore. 
Wolves fans shuffle to the edge of their seats whenever one of their brilliant attackers is on the ball and there are signs that it could be about to take off. 
While man-of-the-moment Adama Traore was largely frustrated against the Gunners, with Kieran Tierney doing more than a decent job in nullifying him, Jota and Jimenez found plenty of joy.
 
And that’s part of what Traore brings to the table. It takes so much effort for opposing teams to prevent him from wreaking havoc that it frees up his attacking colleagues to do the damage. 
Some of the intricate play around the box between the trio late on was also superb with all three at ease with the ball at their feet in tight spaces.
Traore (2 goals, 6 assists), Jimenez (11 goals, 3 assists) and Jota (4 goals, 3 assists) are having good seasons but there’s guaranteed to be fireworks when they click into gear as a threesome.
 
Ruben Neves - who also made his 100th appearance in old gold at Arsenal - was walking the disciplinary tightrope having picked up his fourth booking of the season at Newcastle last week. 
The Portuguese managed to negotiate the Arsenal match without going into Michael Oliver’s book and is available for next weekend’s Molineux match with Aston Villa. 
Neves also produced his best performance of the season against Arsenal and seems to flourish in a two-man midfield alongside compatriot and mentor Joao Moutinho. 
There was one slight injury concern for Wolves at The Emirates with wing-back Matt Doherty limping off after crashing into the turf following a challenge. 
Doherty attempted to play on before being replaced by Ruben Vinagre. The defender’s knock isn’t thought to be serious, though, and he’s likely to be available for next week’s big double-header on home soil.
 
We are living in an age where Wolverhampton Wanderers are taking on the mighty Arsenal in their own backyard and leaving London feeling pretty annoyed not to be celebrating victory. For the second year running Arsenal escaped a game against Wolves at The Emirates with a 1-1 draw.
Matt Doherty and Diogo Jota were guilty of missing good chances in either half with Arsenal creating very little to genuinely worry Wolves’ imperious number one Rui Patricio. 
As we all know, though, the thing currently stopping Wolves from being a genuine contender for the top six is an inability to see off the likes of Burnley, Southampton and Newcastle.
