
# Selma Blair embraces ‘short and grey’ hair after shaving head post-chemotherapy

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:39:33+00:00**

Author: **Sabrina Barr**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/selma-blair-hair-shaved-head-chemotherapy-treatment-multiple-sclerosis-instagram-a9185356.html?utm_term=Autofeed&utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter)

Selma Blair has said she is embracing her “short and grey” hair after shaving her head following chemotherapy treatment.
Last month, the Cruel Intentions star opened up about undergoing “aggressive” chemotherapy for her multiple sclerosis (MS), a condition that affects the brain and spinal cord. 
The actor has been using Instagram to document her journey following her MS diagnosis, regularly opening up to her two million followers about the way in which the condition has affected her life.
On Monday, Blair shared a photograph on the social media platform of the top of her head, showing how her buzz-cut hair has turned grey.
The 47-year-old explained that she cut her hair short after having chemotherapy in order to prepare herself and her son for baldness, before later shaving it when an attempt to dye it brunette was not successful.
“After a week, I buzzed shorter with clippers and a few weeks later, here we are. A thinnish, patchy charcoal head,” Blair wrote.
“I will see how a pixie grows in. Or I will buzz again. It seems to be too much to have long hair again. So I will leave it short and grey, something I have never before wanted to do.”
The Legally Blonde star said she equated going grey with “giving up”, but has decided to embrace her new hair.
“I’ll try it. Unless... some fancy pants company with a thick checkbook wants to entice me out of dye retirement,” Blair said.
“Then I will sing about the glories of processed hair! I certainly will. So, until that wished for day... enjoy the head.”
Several of the actor’s Instagram followers praised her openness regarding her changing hair colour.
“You have never looked more beautiful as these last months,” wrote fellow actor Gwyneth Paltrow.
“I’m about two months behind you on the chemo train,” another person commented.
“I can’t wait to take a top-of-head selfie that’s full of that tapestry of colour!”
