
# Nlex awards P8-billion connector road project to DMCI

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:11:59+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/06/nlex-awards-p8-billion-connector-road-project-to-dmci/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
NLEX Corp. awarded on Tuesday an P8-billion contract to DM Consunji Inc. (DMCI) for the construction of the first phase of the connector road, a critical piece of infrastructure seen as a solution to diverting tens of thousands of vehicles from Metro Manila’s clogged arteries.
Luigi L. Bautista, the president of the expressway operator, said the contract covers the construction of the initial segment of the North Luzon Expressway (Nlex) Connector Road that will run from Grace Park, Caloocan City, to España Street, Sampaloc, Manila.
“The actual work on the ground would be toward the end of November,” he said. “We are confident that our team, our contractor, and our partners in government will work together to deliver this high-quality elevated expressway.”
Public Works Secretary Mark A. Villar noted that his group has so far delivered 50 percent of the right-of-way for the first phase of connector road.
“The workable area is now at 50 percent. By next year, we will definitely deliver 100 percent of the right-of-way,” he said. “We are committed to accelerating the right of way acquisition in order to build traffic solutions for our motorists.”
Bautista agreed that this significant portion of the easement is workable, and noted that construction works will commence even as the government still works to resolve the other half of the right-of-way.
The second phase of the project involves the section that runs from España, Manila to the Polytechnic University of the Philippines in Santa Mesa, Manila. It costs roughly P8 billion.
“For Phase 2, we will start the tender process next month. So, toward the end of March next year, we should be able to appoint the contractor for the second section,” Bautista noted.
The Nlex Connector Road spans 8 kilometers from the new Caloocan Interchange to the Metro Manila Skyway Stage 3, linking Nlex to the South Luzon Expressway (Slex).
“Upon full completion in 2021, the Nlex Connector will significantly cut travel time from Nlex to Slex by at least 60 percent. Instead of the usual two hours, travel time will now be reduced to about 20 minutes. It will also provide improved accessibility for cargo trucks bound for the Manila Ports and the international airports,” Villar said, referring to the Ninoy Aquino International Airport (Naia) and the Clark International Airport.
Aside from solving the traffic congestion in several Manila roads, the Nlex Connector Road is also expected to stimulate economic development in Manila, Caloocan, Malabon and Navotas, as well as its surrounding areas. It is expected to handle roughly 35,000 motorists daily, especially cargo trucks.
