
# New mum Marnie Simpson breaks selfie ban five days after giving birth - and looks incredible

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:50:57+00:00**

Author: **Louise Randell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/louise-randell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/new-mum-marnie-simpson-breaks-20807453)

New mum Marnie Simpson has shared an update showing her looking incredible just five days after giving birth.
The reality TV star, 27, welcomed a son with boyfriend Casey Johnson last week.
She experienced a difficult 28-hour labour after being 12 days overdue, but she's now at home spending time with her little boy.
Afterwards, she declared she would be taking a break from sharing selfies on social media, but yesterday she returned to Instagram to post a smiling snap of herself.
Marnie looked fresh-faced and gorgeous as she revealed the baby's grandmother was staying the night to help out.
It came two days after Marnie insisted she was taking a break from social media.
In a post on Instagram, she wrote: "Still not ready to face social media yet guys I’m too consumed by love and emotions for my new baby boy.
"I promise I’ll be back soon. Sending so much love to you all!"
 
Marnie welcomed her first child with Casey on 29 October but has yet to reveal the youngster's name.
After the birth, she posted a video explaining why she was being so quiet on social media.
She said: "Hi everyone, I wanted to come on because I have been very inactive for a good few days but as you can see, I don’t exactly want to do video looking this rough.
“But I just want to say a massive thank you to everyone to who's messaged. I’m trying my hardest to go through all the messages and reply to everyone because it honestly means so much to us."
Detailing the tough birth, the MTV personality added: “Obviously it was a very traumatic experience for me and it wasn’t the easiest labour. But I’m just so thankful that everyone is so supportive and so nice and that everyone has just been there for us.
“Once I’m feeling a bit better I’ll definitely be on here a little but more but me and baby are doing amazing.
"He is absolutely perfect, he is just everything and more and me and Casey are recovering well from the extremely long long labour.
But yeah, thank you to you all and I will definitely get back to everyone in good time, so thank you!”
After the birth, Casey revealed their son weighed 8.1 pounds and he shared a sweet note for Marnie.
He wrote: "Where do I start... after 28 hours of labour my strong amazing princess @marns delivered our gorgeous little man on the 29th October at 4:20pm 8.1!!!
"My beautiful baby boy was born, I can’t even describe my emotions right now, it’s been a long journey (10 months).
"Watching the person you adore in pain is not nice but the gift we both have right now just wipes away all the bad moments through labour.
"I literally sit and stair at him non stop with Marnie, he’s the start of our family, he’s so cute!!!"

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at  webcelebs@trinitymirror.com  or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
