
# Tharaka Nithi leaders reject census data, vow legal action

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:12:20+00:00**

Author: **Mary Thuo**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/tharaka-nithi-leaders-reject-census-data-vow-legal-action/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya Nov 4 –Tharaka Nithi leaders have rejected the census results released on Monday, placing the county’s population at 393, 177.
      
Led by Governor Muthomi Njuki, the leaders said they will be petitioning the national government to undertake a fresh exercise failure to which they will move to court.
ADVERTISEMENT
Census results released on Monday show that Kenya’s population has grown to 47.6 million, up from 37.7 million in 2009.
“These results are not a true reflection of our numbers, and since we know that they will be used in a formula for revenue allocation, we reject them,” Governor Njuki told a news conference at the Serena Hotel, a day after the results were released by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) that undertook a national census exercise in August. “We expect census results to be a true reflection of the country’s population.”
The new census results show that Tharaka Nithi’s population has only increased by 27,000 people since 2009 when the last census was conducted, but the leaders said they are convinced their population has shot up further than the figures provided by the KNBS and are worried of the low resources set to be allocated to them.
A report released early 2019 by KNBS showed registered births were 53,930 against 10,411 deaths.
In regard to the analysis, the enumerated figures fall below the projected number based on previous census, where the projected figure was 498,000 for 2019 census.
“We call upon the KNBS to undertake further evaluation and analysis of the census results from the county,” Njuki said, accompanied by other leaders, among them Chuka Igambang’ombe legislator Patrick Munene and Maara MP Kareke Mbiuki.
“There is no way children could be more than adults,” Munene said, too disputing the new data that was handed to President Uhuru Kenyatta.
Mbiuki said they will be filing a suit in court if no remedial action is taken following their concerns.“We are giving notice to KNBS to review the results,” Mbiuki said.
