
# Govt won't contact Rehbar Committee for two days: Pervaiz Khattak

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:04:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/516820-Govt-wont-contact-Rehbar-Committee-for-two-days-Pervaiz-Khattak)

ISLAMABD (Dunya News) – The government s negotiation committee on Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl s (JUI-F) Azadi March on Friday contacted Prime Minister Imran Khan and informed him about Maulana Fazlur Rehman’s demands.
According to sources, a meeting of the government s negotiation committee with committee head and Defence Minister Pervez Khattak is underway.
During the meeting, Khattak contacted PM Imran Khan and informed him about JUI-F chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman’s demands.
Sources said that the meeting is reviewing the points from JUI-F chief’s speech in light of PM Imran’s directions.
The government s negotiation committee while rejecting opposition’s demand of the premier’s resignation said that no discussions would be held in this regard.
The government committee will contact opposition’s Rehbar Committee and the government and opposition’s committees are likely to meet tonight.
Later, talking to media, Defence Minister Pervaiz Khattak said that it would be a clear violation of court orders if anyone has done something wrong.
He said that according to the agreement signed between government and opposition’s committees, no contact would be made with the Rehbar Committee for two days, adding that dialogues will be held in case of any need.
Khattak hoped that the JUI-F chief wouldn’t take any step which would harm country and the nation.
“Legal action would be against those who violated the agreement,” he said and added the government has not blocked the roads by obeying the agreement.
“Whole country is witnessing who is obeying the agreement and who is violating,” Khattak added.
The head of the government’s committee said that the Rehbar Committee has never spoke of the resignation of the PM Imran Khan, adding that the premier himself is reviewing the situation.
