
# Alex Shaw's RWC 2019: XV of the tournament

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:31:25+00:00**

Author: **Alex Shaw**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/alex-shaws-rwc-2019-xv-of-the-tournament)

The 2019 Rugby World Cup has been a triumph for World Rugby and the people of Japan, and we have put together our XV of the tournament from an exhilarating month and a half of rugby.
South Africa lifted their 3rd title and are understandably well-represented, as are losing finalists England, who had looked like the form team in the competition prior to being handed a lesson in knockout rugby by the Springboks in Yokohama.
Hosts Japan and fellow tier two nation Fiji are also among those who feature in this selection, as tier one’s stranglehold on the knockout rounds was relinquished thanks to the Brave Blossoms’ inspiring wins over Scotland and Ireland. Take a look at the XV below.
People were understandably sceptical when Barrett was moved to full-back so close to the Rugby World Cup, although Steve Hansen was rewarded with a number of standout displays from the former fly-half. You could have tossed a coin between him and Wales’ Liam Williams, whilst Ryohei Yamanaka also had his moments, but it was the New Zealander who got our vote. It will be interesting to see how the All Blacks use Barrett moving forward, particularly when Damian McKenzie returns to fitness.

        Continue reading below…
      
Watch: Sam Underhill tells the media what was in the Duke of Sussex’s good luck box that he sent to England

        Click here to see the video
      
Honourable mentions here for Anthony Watson and Cheslin Kolbe, but we’ve gone for one of the genuine x-factor players in the hosts’ side. Matsushima lit up the pool stage from day one against Russia and was the perfect threat on the outside to make the most of Japan’s high tempo and desire to play with width. At just 26 years of age, he should be an integral member of the team over the next cycle and at the 2023 Rugby World Cup.
The Fijian was a silver lining in a tournament that didn’t quite go to plan for the islanders, as they fell to defeat to Australia, Wales and even Uruguay, in what was one of the more memorable games over the last month and a half. Radradra’s attacking impact was felt by every team he went up against and there was little they could do to contain it. That was enough to keep him out in front of Manu Tuilagi, Lukhanyo Am and Timothy Lafaele.
After a relatively slow start to the tournament against Tonga and the USA, Farrell came into his own in the higher-pressure games against Argentina, Australia and New Zealand. Even against South Africa, when England struggled as a team, he was still executing and making the right decisions, despite being given very little from his half-backs. Jones, or potentially Jones’ successor in a couple of years’ time, needs to make a call on whether he is the team’s fly-half or inside centre, but either way he is front and centre of their development towards the 2023 Rugby World Cup. Australia’s Samu Kerevi and South Africa’s Damian de Allende were also influential.
