
# AP Sportlight

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Compiled PAUL MONTELLA**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/2/ap-sportlight/)

Nov. 3
1899 - Jim Jeffries beats Sailor Tom Sharkey to retain the world heavyweight title after the referee stops the fight in the 25th round at the Greater New York Athletic Club.
1968 - Jim Turner of New York kicks six field goals to lead the Jets to a 25-21 victory over the Buffalo Bills.
1973 - Roosevelt Leaks rushes for 342 yards to lift Texas to a 42-14 victory over Southern Methodist.
1973 - Jay Miller sets an NCAA record with 22 catches for 263 yards, leading BYU past New Mexico 56-21.
1973 - Stan Mikita of Chicago scores his 1,000th NHL point with an assist in a 5-4 loss to Minnesota.
1990 - David Klingler tosses seven TD passes in Houston’s 56-35 victory over TCU, whose substitute quarterback Matt Vogler sets an NCAA record by passing for 690 yards.
1995 - The Toronto Raptors and Vancouver Grizzlies open their first NBA season with victories. The Raptors beat New Jersey 94-79; the Grizzlies beat Portland 92-80.
1996 - Jerry Rice becomes the first player with 1,000 career NFL receptions in San Francisco’s 24-17 victory over New Orleans.
1999 - Andre Agassi clinches the No. 1 spot in the year-end tennis rankings for the first time, ending the six-year streak of Pete Sampras, who hurt his back and withdrew from the Paris Open.
2001 - Arkansas beats Mississippi 58-56 in seven overtimes in the longest major college football game. The Razorbacks stop the Rebels’ 2-point conversion try in the seventh overtime.
2007 - Navy ends an NCAA-record 43-game losing streak to Notre Dame with a 46-44 victory in triple overtime. It’s the first time Navy beat Notre Dame since a 35-14 win in 1963 when Roger Staubach was quarterback for the Midshipmen.
2007 - Darren McFadden rushes for 323 yards and a touchdown in Arkansas’ 48-36 victory over No. 23 South Carolina.
2007 - Todd Reesing throws a school-record six touchdown passes, and No. 8 Kansas batters Nebraska 76-39. The Jayhawks score touchdowns on 10 straight possessions and rolled up the most points against Nebraska in 117 years of Huskers football.
2012 - Kenjon Barner rushes for a school-record 321 yards and five touchdowns and No. 2 Oregon defeats No. 18 Southern California 62-51. Oregon’s 730 yards and 62 points are the most allowed by USC, which began playing football in 1888.
2012 - Brooklyn makes a winning return to major pro sports, with the Nets topping the Toronto Raptors 107-100 in the first regular-season game at Barclays Center.
2013 - Nick Foles ties an NFL mark with seven touchdown passes and throws for 406 yards to revitalize the Philadelphia Eagles in a 49-20 victory over the Oakland Raiders.
2018 - Accelerate holds off Gunnevera to capture the $6 million Breeders’ Cup Classic. The British filly Enable follows last month’s Arc de Triomphe victory by winning the $4 million Turf - the first horse to take both prestigious races in the same year.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
