
# Nintendo Reveals The Top 15 Most-Downloaded Switch Games In October 2019 (Europe)

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Ryan Craddock**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/nintendo_reveals_the_top_15_most-downloaded_switch_games_in_october_2019_europe)

Nintendo has shared a list of the top 15 most-downloaded Switch eShop games of October 2019 in Europe, and the top spot has been taken by a familiar honky contender.
That's right, in its second calendar month on the market, Untitled Goose Game has managed to sneakily steal the number one spot away from its competitors. It almost managed the feat in September, too, but was just pipped to the post by some little-known franchise called The Legend of Zelda, or something.
Interestingly, Luigi's Mansion 3 managed to claim second place despite only being released on the last day of the month. A very impressive start indeed.
You can check out the full list below. It's based on the number of Nintendo eShop downloads (so no physical sales) in European territories during the whole month:
1. Untitled Goose Game2. Luigi’s Mansion 33. Bastion4. Hollow Knight5. Transistor6. Minecraft7. The Legend of Zelda: Link’s Awakening8. Cuphead9. Overwatch: Legendary Edition10. Stardew Valley11. 911 Operator12. Ori and the Blind Forest: Definitive Edition13. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe14. Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast15. Crypt of the NecroDancer: Nintendo Switch Edition

        Did you download any of these titles on Switch last month? Any surprises in the top 15? Tell us below.
      
