
# The Most Striking Pieces To Snap Up From H&M's Giambattista Valli Collab

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:25:18+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/handms-giambattista-valli-collection-is-coming-heres-what-uk-shoppers-should-pick-up-19291644)

H&M's designer collaborations have been going on for a grand 15 years now. While some haven't appealed to everyone's tastes, this year's partnership almost guarantees a nationwide fanbase. On Nov. 7, H&M x Giambattista Valli will drop online and in select stores. Encompassing couture-like dresses, the ultimate winter coat collection, and an unmissable pair of fluffy shoes, it's definitely a range to set an alarm for.
“I’m used to intense and exacting atelier work, and I have very high standards when it comes to the quality of my creations, which I always personally check," the designer told H&M, "but I have to admit I was the first to be surprised when we received samples for the fittings." Surprised in a good way, it turns out, as the pieces look like they've just stepped straight off the catwalk.
A total of 16 mega dresses are included in the collection, combining both frothy pink tulle pieces and gothic floral designs. Then there's frilly tops, bold leather trousers, and a pair of tights that you won't want to take off all winter. The womenswear collection, costing between £12.99 and £299.99, features 41 designs while the menswear totals 31 items. (But feel free to mix and match.) There are also 34 accessories to choose from. H&M's usual sizing ranges from UK 4 to 22.
From 8 a.m. on Nov. 7, you'll be able to buy the entire thing online and in five stores across the UK: Oxford Street, Regent Street, Westfield Stratford, Birmingham's Bullring Shopping Centre, and Manchester's Market Street. But if you want to be prepared, here's the best bits to keep an eye out for.

        Coat With Embroidery£199.99|H&MUpdate your outerwear collection with this smart floral addition, available exclusively online.Buy now
      

        Oversized Leather Jacket£229.99|H&MPeople will definitely see you coming in this faux fur-detailed patent leather design.Buy now
      

        Faux Fur Jacket£119.99|H&MThis cosy shaggy jacket comes complete with bold red detailing.Buy now
      

        Short Tulle Dress£229.99|H&MLive your ballerina dream in this frothy pink dress.Buy now
      

        Chiffon Dress With Lace£149.99|H&MThis chiffon and lace dress may look gothic, but its floral motifs add a touch of spring.Buy now
      

        Chiffon Dress£139.99|H&MThis lightweight design can easily be worn all year long.Buy now
      

        Long Tulle Dress£299.99|H&MArguably the piece that everyone will be fighting over, this vibrant red asymmetric dress is the standout look of the season.Buy now
      

        Short Tulle Dress£99.99|H&MThere's plenty of shorter dress styles in the collection. One example: this polka dot tulle piece.Buy now
      

        Long Tiered Dress£139.99|H&MIf frills are your thing, head right this way.Buy now
      

        Short Lace Dress£229.99|H&MWhite lace is back with a vengeance. This mini dress proves it.Buy now
      

        Cold Shoulder Dress£119.99|H&MThe cold shoulder is going nowhere thanks to this bold design.Buy now
      

        One Shoulder Dress£69.99|H&MKeep this one back for next summer's frivolities.Buy now
      

        Sequinned Cocktail Dress£119.99|H&MSequins, spots, and a ginormous bow combine in this cocktail style.Buy now
      

        Airy Flounced Blouse£69.99|H&MPolka dots feature once again in this ruffled blouse.Buy now
      

        Silk Chiffon Blouse£79.99|H&MThis romantic blouse comes with truly striking shoulders. Buy now
      

        Short Leather Skirt£79.99|H&MThis real leather skirt is designed in an office-appropriate A-line style.Buy now
      

        Hand Embroidered Skirt£149.99|H&MAnother online exclusive, this hand-finished skirt will add some shine to your winter wardrobe.Buy now
      

        Cargo Trousers£69.99|H&MComfy cargo trousers with a painterly finish? Straight in the shopping cart they go. Buy now
      

        Leather Trousers£149.99|H&MThose leather trousers that you've seen on all the celebs can now be yours for a relatively modest price.Buy now
      

        Hooded Top With Embroidery£69.99|H&MYou can never have too many hoodies.Buy now
      

        Heart-Shaped Pouch Bag£34.99|H&MSo small you can even wear it as a necklace.Buy now
      

        Lace Boots£229.99|H&MOnly available online, these vampy boots are the heels you'll turn to again and again.Buy now
      

        Leather Mules£119.99|H&MI never knew I'd long for a fluffy pair of mules, but here I am.Buy now
      

        Sparkly Earrings£39.99|H&MEngraved with Giambattista Valli's logo, these lip-shaped earrings will be the talk of your friendship group.Buy now
      

        Patterned Tights£24.99|H&MLogo tights are here to stay and this sheer pair should be treasured for life.Buy now
      
