
# Nolo on reaching top 4 in 'Idols SA': 'It was a miracle for me'

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:03:17+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/TV/Idols/nolo-on-reaching-top-4-in-idols-sa-it-was-a-miracle-for-me-20191104)

Cape Town – Nolo Seodisha reached the end of his Idols SA journey in the latest episode of the reality show.
The 26-year-old who hails from Soshanguve started the competition with his brother - who didn't make it to the top 17.
Nolo was a firm favourite from the beginning sailing through round after round. Unfortunately, his luck ran out, making him miss out on a top 3 spot and a trip to New York.
We chatted to him about his Idols experience and found out what's next for the crooner.

        You were one of two guys in the top 10. Did you think you would make it this far in the competition?
      
When I entered Idols, my main aim was to make it to the top 10. As soon as I got into the top 10, I was like 'This is actually what I wanted.' As every week passed, and I made it through to eventually four, it was all a miracle for me every week. I enjoyed it so much, and I learned a lot.

        Do you feel as though you lost momentum as the competition continued because you set the bar so high for yourself in the beginning?
      
Some weeks the song choices were off, but I gave it my all every week. As for setting the bar too high, you have to have a good start; I think I came in nice, went out lovely. Everything happened as it was supposed to happen. It was a great experience.

        Is there anything you would have changed about your final performances?
      
No, I enjoyed the two songs from last week, Let's Groove and the Lazy Song. For the second performance I got to wear sporty clothes, and chill – and I got good comments from the judges. I appreciated those performances because I think I redeemed myself.

        It's been a tough competition with lots of twists and turns. Who do you think stands a good chance at winning?
      
This is a tough question! It is the top three, and everyone is just bringing their A-game. I am just as curious as you are to see who is going to win. I really don't know. Everyone is bringing fire. I can't wait for the finale.
