
# Watch as water floods street after pipes burst in West Bromwich

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:31:23+00:00**

Author: **Jordan Coussins, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/jordan-coussins/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/black-country/watch-water-floods-street-after-17189451)

Engineers have warned of travel misery and discoloured water after a mains pipe burst on the Oldbury and West Bromwich border.
South Staffs Water chiefs have urged customers they may experience murky water coming from their taps after the pipe burst in Bromford Lane at around 3pm on Friday, October 1.
They have urged that the water is not harmful – but may not look 'very nice'.
 
Four-way traffic lights have also been set up at the roundabout, which connects Brandon Way and Kelvin Way.
A clip shared by the company shows water bubbling up from underneath the pavement and creating a large puddle at the side of the road.
A spokesman for the company said: “We are working to repair a burst water main on Bromford Lane at the junction of Brandon Way and Kelvin Way.
“Some customers may be experiencing discoloured water and although this doesn't look very nice, it's not harmful. Running the kitchen tap for about 20 minutes or until clear will help.
“There will be four-way traffic lights on the island which is likely to cause traffic delays. We advise you to find an alternative route or allow extra time for your journey.
“We're working to repair it as quickly as possible. We're sorry for any inconvenience.”
To keep up-to-date with crime in your community, join the  Black Country Crime Watch  Facebook group where you will be alerted to any suspicious or criminal behaviour happening in your area.    
Keep up-to-date with all things Wolverhampton on our  Wolverhampton Facebook page  - where you'll get the latest news, travel, weather and events in your area.        
