
# We asked 13 economists how to fix the economy. All back the RBA governor over the Treasurer

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:13:40+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-11-04/economists-back-rba-philip-lowe-not-treasurer-josh-frydenberg/11667836)

The Conversation By Peter Martin
Thirteen leading economists have declared their hands in the stand-off between the Government and the governor of the Reserve Bank over the best way to boost the economy.
All 13 back Reserve Bank governor Philip Lowe.
They say that, by itself, the Reserve Bank cannot be expected to do everything extra that will be needed to boost the economy.
All think that extra stimulus will be needed, and all think it'll have to come from Treasurer Josh Frydenberg, as well as the bank.
All but two say the Treasurer should be prepared to sacrifice his goal of an immediate budget surplus in order to provide it.
The 13 are members of the 20-person economic forecasting panel assembled by The Conversation at the start of this year.
All but one have been surprised by the extent of the economic slowdown.
The 13 represent ten universities in five states.
Among them are macroeconomists, economic modellers, former Treasury, IMF, OECD and Reserve Bank officials and a former government minister.
At issue is the Government's contention, spelled out by Frydenberg's Treasury secretary, Steven Kennedy, in evidence to the Senate last month, that there is usually little role for government spending and tax ("fiscal") measures in stimulating the economy in the event of a downturn.
Absent a crisis, economic weakness was "best responded to by monetary policy".
