
# Get ready for heartbreak: Keanu Reeves doesn't seem to be single anymore

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:19:28+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/News/get-ready-for-heartbreak-keanu-reeves-doesnt-seem-to-be-single-anymore-20191105)

Cape Town – After years of giving us hope the internet's boyfriend, Keanu Reeves, has decided to break our hearts by going public with his rumoured long-time girlfriend, Alexandra Grant.
The pair made their public debut as they posed happily together for cameras on the red carpet at the LACMA Art + Film Gala presented by Gucci in Los Angeles.
Of course, notoriously private Keanu has not commented on the state of their relationship, however, do know that the two creatives have been friends and collaborators for years.
Alexandra, 46, worked with Keanu on a book titled Ode to Happiness, which was published in 2011 according to Daily Mail. That was followed up in 2016 with another book called Shadows.

        SEE THE PHOTOS OF THE EVENT HERE:
      
One of Keanu's last serious (public) romances was with David Lynch's assistant, Jennifer Syme.
The couple met in 1998 and conceived a child one year later.
However, while Keanu was filming one of his most famous blockbusters, The Matrix, the child named Ava Archer Symes-Reeves, was stillborn.
The couple broke up a few weeks later. Then tragically a year and a half later in 2001, Jennifer died in a car accident. She was 28 years old. 

        Compiled by Alex Isaacs. (Sources: Daily Mail, The BBC, Google Books.)
      

        (Photos: Getty Images)
      
