
# Letter to the Editor, Nov. 2, 2019: Gender-based abuse must be called out

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:00:50+00:00**

Author: **Letters to Regina Leader-Post**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/opinion/letters/letter-to-the-editor-nov-2-2019-gender-based-abuse-must-be-called-out)

It has been more than a week since a nasty, gender-based slur was spray-painted on the window of Catherine McKenna’s Ottawa campaign office. Yet I can’t stop thinking about it.
This is not the first time that Ms. McKenna, who has served as federal Minister of Environment and Climate Change for the past four years, has been the victim of verbal abuse and other threats, both online and in person. During the recent election campaign, for example, security detail was sometimes necessary to ensure the safety of her and her family.
This is completely unacceptable, and as the Ottawa Citizen stated in an editorial piece originally published on October 25: “Catherine McKenna doesn’t deserve this abuse. No one does.”
No one deserves it, but that does not stop it from happening. The slur that was spray-painted on Ms. McKenna’s office window is all too common. It may not be painted on windows all the time, but it is most certainly muttered, said under the breath, or typed on social media every day. And it is symptomatic of a larger societal problem, which is perhaps why it has affected me so deeply.
Gender-based abuse or violence — verbal, psychological, emotional, and physical — is something women have to contend with on a daily basis in Canada and around the world. It is an international issue, and there is no woman who does not flinch when she is the victim of a gender-specific slur.
Ms. McKenna has spoken publicly and bravely about how this type of abuse affects her and her family. Sadly, this issue affects many more women and families — both those who are in the public eye and those who are not.
I would venture to say that all women politicians have experienced some form of verbal abuse — often in person, and even more often these days, anonymously online. It seems to have become a fact of life that they must face in their public roles. And many other women have experienced verbal gender-specific abuse in their private lives — an abuse that in many cases can escalate to physical and sexual violence.
I am surprised at how this most recent incident directed at Ms. McKenna has affected and stayed with me. I am outraged, as all Canadians should be. I do not want to hear that as women, we are too sensitive and need to “toughen up.” We should not have to toughen up. Rather, we should not have to experience and tolerate violence, abuse and fear throughout our lives simply because of our gender.
As Canadians, all of us must do better and be better. Gender-based slurs, abuse and violence have no place in our country — and in our world — and we must call them out whenever we hear or read them. If we fail to do so, the perpetrators of such acts will believe they have licence to continue degrading and abusing women. Simply put, they do not have such licence — and we need to reinforce that fact strongly at every opportunity.

        Dr. Vianne Timmons, President and Vice-Chancellor, University of Regina
      
