
# BBMP marshals bust slaughterhouse mafia

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Akhila Damodaran**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/bbmp-marshals-bust-slaughterhouse-mafia/articleshow/71844482.cms)

BBMP, police seal 13 illegal slaughterhouses running on Tannery Road The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) busted the illegal animal slaughter mafia that’s been operating near Tannery Road. The marshal, with the help of police, raided, seized and sealed 13 houses in three wards. Few citizens had built houses to mask their operations as a residential area. However, the citizens managed to escape. The raids were conducted in ward 31 (Kushaal nagar), ward 47 (Devara Jeevanahalli) and ward 48 (Muneshwara Nagar) on Thursday morning by a team of eight marshals, BBMP officials and police. Captain Rajbir Singh, chief marshal said their activities were observed for many days. “We had warned them several times. They used to slaughter and litter the entire area. When the pourakarmikas clean the road, they regularly found roads riddled with animal waste,” he says. Marshal Umashankar said, “While patrolling, we found people dumping animal waste on the road. We fined them and followed them and unearthed these houses that were running illegal operations under the guise of a resident houses. We also spoke to the pourakarmikas in that area and found these people were running slaughterhouses without licence.”
Marshalls, BBMP officials and the police conducted raids at the illegal slaughterhouses in Tannery Road and sealed them
He added, “There could be more in the area, we will nab them soon. When we entered the house, we found bags of fresh animal waste, horns of the animals and ropes and other items that are used to hang the animals. They would slaughter and sell to different shops across the city from here. There was no sign of the people living in these houses as there were no furniture and other household items. They built houses so that no one would suspect them.” When the team was making their first raid in fish sellers shop, the word spread around that raids were being conducted at the slaughterhouses and every person linked to it managed to disappear from the spot. The Marshall concluded that the mafia worked at night and especially got animals like cows and bulls from other districts of Karnataka. They worked between 11 pm and 4 am and then discard the animal waste into the storm water drain, vacant plots or on to the roads.
