
# India needs to have better selectors: Yuvraj Singh

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:41:14+00:00**

Author: **Gaurav Gupta**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/india-needs-to-have-better-selectors-yuvraj-singh/articleshow/71916667.cms)

MUMBAI: Retired players are normally relaxed. However, Yuvraj Singh is not.
Sporting a red jacket and trademark black shades, India's hero of the World T20 in 2007 and the World Cup in 2011, looks as stylish as ever. Having retired in June, he now plies his trade to different leagues across the world with the latest being the Abu Dhabi T10 league, set to begin from November 14.
However, he seems to be angry. And his ire is directed at India's selection committee, headed by MSK Prasad. It's a panel which has already come under fire from greats like Sunil Gavaskar, Dilip Vengsarkar and Farokh Engineer. And Yuvraj doesn't mince words too.
"We do need better selectors. Their job isn't easy. But their thinking in terms of modern-day cricket is not up to the mark. I'm always in favour of protecting players and being positive about them. By talking negative about your players and the team, it doesn't show you in good light. Your character only shows when things are going wrong and you motivate the players. In bad times, everyone talks bad. We definitely need better selectors," he says.
One of his pet peeves is about the No 4 spot. It was evident in his recently sarcastic tweet to his close friend, veteran off-spinner Harbhajan Singh: "Top order is very strong bro. They don't need No 4 batsman."
