
# 'She's an unreliable narrator': Lauren Greenfield on her Imelda Marcos documentary

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:00:23+00:00**

Author: **Charles Bramesco**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/nov/04/imelda-marcos-documentary-lauren-greenfield)


        In her staggering film about the controversial former Philippine first lady, the acclaimed Queen of Versailles film-maker faces her most difficult subject yet
      
At the heart of Lauren Greenfield’s body of work, varied in form from photography to writing to film-making yet remarkably consistent in theme, lies a conundrum. From its very outset, her career has revolved around the trappings of extreme wealth, from the ultra-privileged children of the Los Angeles upper-crusters in her early exhibitions to a pair of nouveau-riche homebuilders for her 2012 documentary breakout The Queen of Versailles. She’s fascinated with the grotesquerie and garishness of new money, watching from a clinical remove as her subjects expose the most tacky, contemptible, pathetic sides of themselves. She’s renowned as a chronicler of the morally deformed, a diagnostic for the deleterious effects that a swollen bank account can have on the brain.
So, why do these people keep agreeing to let her shoot them? What possessed Imelda Marcos, the former Philippine first lady and resurgent political operator, to sit for Greenfield’s latest and perhaps most damning portrait, The Kingmaker?
“Imelda Marcos is incredibly aware of the profile she puts forward,” Greenfield says firmly over coffee at a Manhattan hotel. “In the film, I tried to include the parts that show her art-directing the world around her, moving the sheets and arranging her photos, so that we can see her in this presentational state.”
All manner of articles about the dynastic family, many of them harshly critical, hang framed on the walls of the palatial Marcos estate. It’s just one in a handful of canny symbols in Greenfield’s new feature, a telling encapsulation of the mentality shared by her subjects as they hoist themselves by their own petards. Regardless of whatever light they might be seen in, they’re just glad someone’s looking.
