
# Save $30 On The Ninja Foodi 5-in-1 Air Fryer

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:46:40+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-ninja-foodi-air-fryer-sale-black-friday-amazon.html)

Amazon has dropped the price of the Ninja Foodi 5-in-1 Air Fryer, making it just $199. That's $30 off of its regular price, and it's also the first price drop that this model has seen.
This is going to make for a great Christmas gift for those that are always in the kitchen cooking. The Ninja Foodi is a 5-in-1 kitchen appliance, that can replace a number of other products. It can grill, bake, roast, dehydrate and of course, air fry.
Air frying has become the new trend lately, with a lot of people looking to do some air frying for french fries, chicken and much more. This is because it is a lot more healthy than frying these foods in a pot of oil. So it makes sense that this is the new fad. But the good thing is, air fried chicken still tastes really good. Especially if you know how to season it correctly.
Advertisement
You're going to be getting about 75-percent less fat by air frying foods than frying them the traditional way. That sounds like a win/win to me.
Now that winter is coming, and you won't be able to grill outside as much, because it's just to damn cold. The Ninja Foodi is going to be great for that too. As you'll be able to grill your food inside without worrying about setting off any smoke alarms. That is definitely a good thing. And it's still very tasty. You can grill up some burgers in the Ninja Foodi Air Fryer and they'll be ready in moments.
This is definitely a great gift for anyone that does love to cook and loves to fry some chicken. And at this price, you can't afford not to get one.
Advertisement
You can pick up the Ninja Foodi Air Fryer from Amazon right now for just $199 by clicking here.

        Ninja Foodi Air Fryer - Amazon - $199
      
