
# Lori Loughlin Pleads Not Guilty to New Bribery Charge

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:49:10+00:00**

Author: **Zoe Haylock**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/2019/11/lori-loughlin-pleads-not-guilty-to-new-bribery-charge.html)

Lori Loughlin and her husband, designer Mossimo Giannulli, pleaded not guilty to new bribery charges, according to court documents obtained by ABC News. Federal prosecutors tacked on the new charge in October, adding to conspiracy to commit money laundering, conspiracy to commit mail fraud, and honest services mail fraud, all of which both Loughlin and Mossimo have pleaded not guilty to. In the court documents, they also requested to waive their need to appear in court to be arraigned on the new charge. The Full House actress and her husband are just 2 of 35 parents accused of conspiring with William “Rick” Singer in a nationwide college-admissions scandal dubbed “Operation Varsity Blues.” Loughlin and Mossimo allegedly used Singer’s “service” to secure admission to the University of Southern California for their two daughters. The two girls, including influencer Olivia Jade, were admitted as crew athletes, despite never having done the sport.
Singer, along with another celebrity co-conspirator Felicity Huffman, already pleaded guilty. He was charged with racketeering conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy, conspiracy to defraud the United States and obstruction of justice. He is scheduled to be sentenced on June 19. Huffman, who paid to raise her daughter’s SAT score, has 250 hours of community service, served 11 days of a 14-day sentence in jail, and paid a fine. Loughlin and Mossimo, on the other hand, are facing up to 20 years each.
