
# 'Fortunate' - What Birmingham City's Championship rivals really think of them

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Dick, https://www.facebook.com/blueswriterbriandick/?fref=ts, Jamie Kemble**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/birmingham-managers-city-leeds-boro-16860593)

Birmingham City once again find themselves in the uber-competitive environment that is the Championship.
Pep Clotet has been charged with at least emulating last season’s points tally, while also improving the team’s playing style.
It is a process that will take time and during which there will be ups and downs.
It’s also one that will interest Blues’ rivals and we’ll keep a record of what the opposition managers have said about them so far this season.
We’ll update this page as the weeks and matches go by. This is what’s been said so far.
This is your round up of all things Birmingham City; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at St Andrew's and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Blues throughout week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 
Graeme Jones wasn't happy with the scheduling of his side's clash with Blues.
“We are just getting to the stage of the season when being positive about performances is not enough,” Jones said.
“I said that to the players. We have to take points. We have to take positive results especially when you are in the ascendancy.
“People don’t really understand unless you are a professional how much 24 hours matters.
“If we had lost 3-0 and the recovery has been the same period for both teams, you won’t get any complaints from me. It’s already difficult enough. The most important part of the game is recovery and being mentally and physically fresh for every game.
“Whoever it is, the authorities, the EFL, whoever it is. Is it really that difficult to look at a fixture list and make it a level playing field.
“Give people a chance. Come on. If the teams playing each other on a Saturday play the same evening, no problems at all. It’s not right. It’s not fair. That’s my disappointment today.”
Tony Mowbray didn't hold back in his assessment.
“I didn’t recognise the team in the first half and we had some harsh words at half time," he told iFollow Blackburn Rovers.
"We were better in the second half, but it still wasn’t enough. If we have any aspirations then we have to be better than we were tonight, and we have no excuses.
“We had a good following tonight and we didn’t bring a game that warranted anything from the match.
“The players are aware of our feelings, my feelings and we need to have a reaction on Saturday.
“I didn’t see it coming. For two-and-a-half years I’ve had fight, commitment and honesty from the team, but I didn’t see any of that tonight.
“We didn’t get anything from the game and it was really, really disappointing from us tonight.
“We prepare the team throughout the week, Birmingham’s a tough place to come to and they have a decent team.
“But I’m left disappointed by our drive and our passion. Football’s an emotional sport, I’m an emotional guy and I expect an emotional performance."
Marcelo Bielsa was pleased with his side's efforts against Blues.
"It was a really important match for us to win," said Bielsa.
"I am not happy with how we closed the game out. After we scored we could have finished the match and we gave them the ball and let them control the chances.
"We were very focused on the match. The team showed that throughout the match in every moment.
"It was difficult for us to score in the first half, but it was a great performance.
"I am proud to have this job at a club with such important history. The history of the club is very impressive and that increases the duty I have."
Jonathan Woodgate admitted Blues were the better side in this one.
"Sometimes you deserve a bit of luck, but we didn't play well at all," he said.
"They deserved to be winning, probably by a couple at half-time.
"Darren Randolph was exceptional, don't ask me how we get back into it. I'm really frustrated with that last goal We've got a break now, we move onto the next game."
Paul Cook admitted his team had enjoyed a slice of fortune with the goal as Lee Camp allowed Anthony Pilkington's shot to sneak through.
"I didn't ever think we looked like losing to be honest, but I suppose were a bit fortunate with the goal.
"These lads are really carrying the baton well. I think that's one defeat in five for us now, and that's OK for me.
"We just have to keep going. I think that's the third clean sheet in a row at home, so hopefully we can go and do well at Sheffield Wednesday on Saturday now.
"We need points on the board. I don't care who scores, but it really is a big step up to Championship level.
"The standard is so high. This was an important win for us, but we must keep challenging."
Phillip Cocu was proud to take three points after a difficult week.
"It was a big win,” the Dutchman said. "But also what a game - unbelievable what can happen in one game.
"I am proud of the reaction of the team and the mental strength they showed after going 2-0 and being pegged back to 2-2.
"Then there is the penalty, and Kelle saves, and still we get the win. 
"It is vital to show what they (the players) showed today. What do we stand for? At the moment, it is very important for us as a club.
"After the week we had, it is extremely more difficult to play a game than usual, and that that is why I think they did an excellent job." 
Alex Neil felt his side merited their first away win of the campaign - for being more positive.
"I thought it was a deserved win to be honest," he said.
"In the first half we dominated the game and any team who puts two banks of four behind the ball like did Birmingham did, are hard to break down.
"The pitch here is six yards narrower than ours, so that make it hard to break through them - they were very direct. We had to be patient and move the ball well.
"It panned out exactly how we expected it to and planed for. The second half Birmingham was a bit more aggressive because they were a goal down.
"Getting the goal was a big turning point, when you come to these places you need to get the first goal.
"If you don't, they will sit back even more and absorb pressure so that was crucial.
"We deserved to be winning the game at that stage because we were trying to win it and they were set up not to lose it
Wednesday, December 11 (7.45pm) - Sky Sports Football
Saturday, December 14 (12.30pm) - Sky Sports Football
Addicks boss Lee Bowyer was incensed after being sent off - for rolling a ball back to the Blues' dugout.
"Someone from their staff threw a ball on to the pitch to try and waste time. Which I have never seen before, great, just grab a ball from somewhere and throw it on the pich.
“The ball ended up next to me, I picked the ball up, I was walking towards their bench and shouted down to them ‘Is this your ball’, they said yes. And I threw it back.
“Because I left my technical area that’s a red card, I have never heard that rule in my life.
“I can’t see how that’s a straight red, he’s saying I threw the ball back aggressively, they were 20 yards away, there is no aggressiveness.
“The fourth official wasn’t even watching.
“If they don’t throw it on they don’t have to throw it back, in my eyes I haven’t done anything wrong. What if I had kicked it? It’s still the same thing.
“They managed the game well - every time one of our players went near them they went down,” he continued.
Nathan Jones felt his team were unlucky to lose to Jude Bellingham’s deflected winner.
“They scored with a very fortuitous second goal and the first was exactly what we told them (the Stoke players) and showed them. We’ve got to be better.
“They scored against Bristol City like that, against Barnsley like that, we showed them on the video, they should be aware.
“We’ve helped them out and we’ll look at moments in the game but we were the better side up until then. Lee Gregory hit the post, the keeper’s made a brilliant save… we shouldn’t have lost the game but we have again.”
 

        For all your latest Blues news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
Steve Cooper cut a contented figure after his Swans made Blues pay for their lack of ambition.
“We really respected Birmingham’s way of playing and their game-plan,” Cooper said.
“I went to watch them against Barnsley on Tuesday night and we got it right with how we thought they would set up, we thought they were going to be a 5-3-2 because their two strikers scored the other night, it’s difficult to change it when both strikers score.
“They are good at what they do, they are a little more direct, which is obviously a threat. But we dealt with it really well. We kept the ball in play, we made it a fast game and we limited them to long throws.
Daniel Stendel felt Blues hadn’t done much to win.
“After the 2-0 defeat, we are very disappointed. Until the first goal we played a good away game and Birmingham didn’t really have chances,” Stendel said.
“For us it was also difficult to create chances but we had good situations and we played better in the second half.
“We were better in the second half than Birmingham but 1-0 changed the situation so much.
“You could see after that we were very nervous , we lost our structure and it is difficult to change the result.”
Sabri Lamouchi enjoyed what turned out to be a stroll in the park.
“Our keeper did not have to do a lot so, for me, it was the perfect game.”
Lee Johnson thought he had seen the second coming of Hodd as Kasey Palmer lifted the Robins to an equaliser.
“Birmingham are a good side but I thought we had the majority of the possession and had good chances with the ball.
“I thought we had the exceptional chances of the match. I was pleased.
“First and foremost I am most pleased that Kasey got 90 minutes. To have him back and fit is great providing, like he did today, a lot of goals and assists. He played two or three passes that Glenn Hoddle would have been proud of.”
Brentford boss Thomas Frank was not happy after his side were undone by a 20-yard header.
“Quite frustrating. I think we put in one of our best performances in a long time at Griffin Park. I think we outplayed them, out-battled them, everything. We created four major chances at least, plus opportunities.
“They had nothing. I would say the goal is not even a chance. It’s like, OK they take it quick, yes we need to do better, but come on, he headed it in the top corner from outside the penalty area. How many times have you seen that in the history of football?"
