
# 'That pisses a lot of people off' - Players, coaches react to scrum annihilation

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:20:46+00:00**

Author: **Ian Cameron**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/that-pisses-a-lot-of-people-off-players-coaches-react-to-scrum-annihilation)

South Africa’s domination of the England scrum set the tone and the platform for South Africa’s 32-12 Rugby World Cup final win in Yokohama.
Despite being 20kg lighter than the 920kg English pack, the South Africans won six scrum penalties in the first half alone, earning kickable points for Pollard and destroying any chance of a set-piece platform for the English.
Springboks’ head coach Rassie Erasmus was however reluctant to divulge too much detail of his plan to undermine one of his opponent’s primary strengths.
“I don’t want to sound very clever afterwards because that pisses a lot of people off. It is a spin-off the way we have played the last five games, keep it tight especially in the six-day turnaround.”
Loosehead Tendai Mtawarira admitted it was an area that South Africa were focusing on.
“As a Springbok pack we take a lot of pride in our set-piece,” noted ‘The Beast’. “All tournament it’s been working for us up front. We went out there to get ascendancy and it was great to get a few penalties in the first half.

        Click here to see the video
      
“We wanted to get ascendancy up front. It’s something we have been working on for a long time to improve it. All the hard work paid off tonight. All eight made a huge difference.”
He did however off his commiserations to England tighthead Kyle Sinckler. The Harlequin was forced off after just three minutes following an accidental collision England lock Maro Itoje.
“It’s never nice to see a player come off so early in the game. He’s had a great tournament and been playing really well, so I feel sorry for him.”
