
# 'Don't look' - Wolves boss' verdict on Arsenal and Unai Emery

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:03:12+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/arsenal-unai-emery-wolverhampton-wanderers-17187830)

Wolverhampton Wanderers manager Nuno Espirito Santo has been discussing his side's trip to Arsenal tomorrow (3pm).
Nuno takes Wolves to the Emirates Stadium hoping to continue the good run of form that has seen the Molineux side go five Premier League matches unbeaten.
However, last time out they lost 2-1 to West Midlands rivals Aston Villa in the Carabao Cup, while Arsenal were also dumped out of the competition at Liverpool in a penalty shootout.
Nuno 's side will be hoping to evoke memories of the 2-0 win at back-to-back champions Manchester City last month, a game in which they weathered a storm before hitting their hosts on the counter-attack.
This is your round up of all things Wolves; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Wolves throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WWFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Wolves reporter Alex Dicken on Twitter, and his email address is Alex.Dicken@reachplc.com
 
But the Wolves boss knows it won't be as simple as just copying the game-plan from the Etihad Stadium victory.
“Arsenal is a totally different game (to Manchester City) and a totally different opponent, but we know it will be very, very difficult," he said.
"Arsenal has a fantastic squad, a very good manager, so it’s going to be very difficult tomorrow.
“Tomorrow is a new game, history in football does not repeat.
 
"Arsenal have a lot of quality players, well organised, the have speed and have good quality with possession on the ball.
"It will be very tough challenge against a very good team.
“We don’t look at the table.
"We compete against every opponent that we have in front of us in all competitions.”
The trip to Arsenal will be Wolves' seventh match in under a month.
Now they are out of the Carabao Cup that is one less challenge for Nuno's team to worry about.
But they still have Europa League and top flight commitments.
“It has been a big challenge for everybody, for the squad, for us, for the club and for our fans – we are embracing the challenge," he said.
 
“It’s not easy, it’s not easy at all.
"It’s very, very demanding, especially on the players.
"It’s very demanding because of the time of recovering, the amount of games we have, the high level of opponent that we are facing, in Premier League, in the Europa League and in the cup – it’s very demanding.
“Having experience before helps you but doesn’t make it easier. It is always a big challenge and I think it’s always going to be harder.
“We always think about (team selection).
"We always take a lot of time to prepare, time to find the best options, finding the right solutions.
"It’s always a big challenge, like I say.”
