
# IND vs BAN | Rohit Sharma declared fit to play first T20I against Bangladesh

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:20:11+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/02/ind-vs-ban-rohit-sharma-declared-fit-to-play-first-t-20-i-against-bangladesh?utm_medium=rss)


        India's stand-in T20 captain Rohit Sharma has been cleared to play in the first T20I by the BCCI's medical team. Rohit had left the batting training session half-way when he was hit on the left side of his abdomen while facing throw-downs and did not return to bat for the reminder of the session.
      
India's stand-in T20 skipper Rohit Sharma will lead the side in the first T20I against Bangladesh at the Arun Jaitley Stadium in Delhi. Rohit was hit on the left side of his abdomen as one ball sharply bounced and hit him on the left side of his abdomen, causing him discomfort. He immediately left the training session and was taken for further treatment and scans. 
Rohit was certainly not happy with the pace at which the ball was thrown. India had sought the service of Sri Lanka's left-arm throwdown expert Nuwan to counter the threat provided by Mustafizur Rahman in the series. After taking the required medical treatment, it was decided that Rohit will not take further part in the training sessions as a precautionary measure.
"Rohit Sharma was hit on the left side of his abdomen while batting in the nets today. The BCCI medical team has confirmed that he is fit and available for the first T20 after assessment of his injury," the BCCI media manager issued a statement on behalf of the team.
There was also a debate gathering everyone's attention about India's first-choice keeper with both Rishabh Pant and Sanju Samson a part of the squad. But the debate seems to have come to a rest as Sanju Samson was seen fielding with other players, while Pant was taking extra wicket-keeping practice.
With Hardik Pandya recovering from a surgery, Indian team management and selectors have shown faith in young all-rounder Shivam Dube. After having an underwhelming IPL with RCB, Dube bounced back with excellent performances in India A's Tour of West Indies A. He was seen keenly listening to the advice of Head Coach Ravi Shastri. It will be interesting to see how he performs in Indian colours.
