
# Sesame Street is turning 50, and its residents show no sign of stopping

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:00:47+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-11-06/sesame-street-turns-50/11675640)

Fifty years ago this week, beloved entertainer Carol Burnett appeared on the very first broadcast of a quirky television program that featured a bunch of furry puppets.
That show was Sesame Street and Ms Burnett, like a lot of kids, was instantly hooked.
She would return to the show multiple times, including visits to demonstrate to pre-school viewers where her nose was and to smooch a rubber duckie.
"I was a big fan. I would have done anything they wanted me to do," she said.
This first episode of Sesame Street — sponsored by the letters W, S and E and the numbers 2 and 3 — aired on November 10, 1969.
It was a turbulent time in the US, rocked by the Vietnam War, the civil rights movement, and the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr.
Newt Minow, who was the US Federal Communications Commission chairman at the time, famously said television was becoming "a vast wasteland."
Enter Sesame Street: Creators Joan Ganz Cooney and Lloyd Morrisett worked with Harvard University developmental psychologist Gerald Lesser to build the show's unique approach with legendary puppeteer Jim Henson.
Today the show reaches 120 million children globally.
"It wasn't about if kids were learning from TV, it was about what they were learning from TV," said Steve Youngwood, the chief operating officer of Sesame Workshop.
The show was designed by education professionals and child psychologists with one goal: to help low-income and minority students aged 2–5 overcome some of the deficiencies they had when entering school.
Social scientists had long noted white and higher income kids were often better prepared.
So, it wasn't an accident that the show was set on an urban street with a multicultural cast.
Diversity and inclusion were baked into the show. Monsters, humans and animals all lived together peacefully.
Bert, Ernie and the gang made an instant impression on actress Sonia Manzano, who starred in the show and wrote for it from 1971–2015 — including getting married on air.
Over the years, Sesame Street has welcomed many more.
It became the first children's program to feature someone with Down syndrome.
It's had puppets with HIV and in foster care, invited children in wheelchairs, dealt with topics like jailed parents, homelessness, women's rights, military families and even girls singing about loving their hair.
It introduced the bilingual Rosita — the first Latina Muppet — in 1991.
Julia, a 4-year-old Muppet with autism came in 2017 and this year has offered help for kids whose parents are dealing with addiction and recovery.
So important is the show that PETA recently asked for the creation of a vegan Muppet.
"We are a mirror to society here even though we're dealing with birds and chickens and monsters," said Matt Vogel, the puppeteer who portrays Big Bird and the Count and who grew up watching Sesame Street.
There have been a few bumps in the road however, like Roosevelt, an early puppet whose stereotypical African American dialect offended many.
Singer Katy Perry showed a little too much for some parents in 2010, and Cookie Monster, in the face of an obesity epidemic, had to moderate his adoration of cookies to "a sometimes food."
Others in the US have challenged the use of federal funds going to the program, which is technically a non-profit that earns millions on licensing for everything from lunch boxes and toys to nappies and commercials for Farmers Insurance.
Big Bird in 2012 found himself unexpectedly in the presidential race when Mitt Romney said he would defund public broadcasting if elected.
The US Government gives about 4 per cent — less than $US5 million ($7.25 million) a year — to the show in grants.
In 2015, the longtime PBS show inked a five-year pact with HBO that gave the premium cable channel the right to air new episodes nine months before they air on PBS.
That prompted some criticism that Sesame Workshop favoured viewers who could afford HBO over those who could not.
