
# Biden slams Warren's 'wrong presidential primary' comment as elitist

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:50:23+00:00**

Author: **Caroline Kelly and Arlette Saenz, CNN**

Original: [CHANNEL3000](https://www.channel3000.com/news/politics/national-politics/biden-slams-warrens-wrong-presidential-primary-comment-as-elitist/1139399496)

(CNN) - Joe Biden slammed Elizabeth Warren as out of touch after she accused him of running in the "wrong presidential primary," writing in a Medium post on Tuesday that such attacks are "condescending to the millions of Democrats who have a different view."
"It's representative of an elitism that working and middle class people do not share: 'We know best; you know nothing'. 'If you were only as smart as I am you would agree with me," Biden wrote.
"This is no way to get anything done," he added. "This is no way to bring the country together. This is no way for this party to beat Donald Trump."
Biden's comments come following Warren's announcement of her "Medicare for All" funding plan on Friday. The Biden campaign dismissed her plan as "mathematical gymnastics," to which Warren responded by defending key figures in her plan as having been authenticated by former members of the Obama administration.
"So if Joe Biden doesn't like that, I'm just not sure where he's going," she said Friday, adding that "Democrats are not gonna win by repeating Republican talking points and by dusting off the points of view" of profit-motivated drug and insurance corporations.
"But if anyone wants to defend keeping those high profits for insurance companies," Warren added, "and those high profits for drug companies, and not making the top 1% pay a fair share in taxes, and not making corporations pay a fair share in taxes, then I think they're running in the wrong presidential primary."
In the Medium post, Biden did not name Warren but emphasized his record as a career Democrat -- a potential dig at Warren, a former registered Republican who switched parties in the 1990s.
"I have fought for the Democratic party my whole career. I know what we stand for, who we stand with and what we believe," Biden wrote. "And it's not just policies or issues. It's in my bones. That's not something everyone in this primary can say."
A Warren campaign spokesperson declined to comment.
