
# The Latest: Judge blocks Alabama Democratic Party meeting

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/1/the-latest-judge-blocks-alabama-democratic-party-m/)

MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) - The Latest on the dispute within Alabama’s Democratic Party (all times local):
6:25 p.m.
A Montgomery judge has blocked a meeting of a faction of the Alabama Democratic Party’s executive committee that’s scheduled to hold leadership elections Saturday.
The Montgomery Advertiser reports Circuit Judge Greg Griffin wrote in an opinion delivered about 5 p.m. Friday that the court is satisfied plaintiffs have at least a reasonable chance of prevailing upon, at a minimum, the key question of which set of bylaws constitute the current and valid bylaws.
Barry Ragsdale, an attorney for the faction seeking to hold the election, said in an email Friday that they would file an appeal and a request an emergency stay with the Alabama Supreme Court.
SDEC members are set to begin their meeting at 8 a.m. Saturday. Ragsdale argued in court Thursday that granting the injunction would violate his clients’ First Amendment rights to assembly.
12:15 p.m.
The chairman of the Democratic National Committee is backing plan to elect new leadership for Alabama’s beleaguered Democratic Party.
A statement filed in court by the head of the national party, Tom Perez, says a party meeting planned for Saturday to elect new leaders complies with rules.
The current chair of the party, Nancy Worley, and others have filed suit to block the meeting. They contend it would be improper.
A judge is considering their request following a hearing.
Insurgents seeking new leadership are aligned with Alabama’s only Democratic statewide officeholder, Sen. Doug Jones. Jones says he’s supporting state Rep. Chris England for chair.
Perez’s statement says Alabama likely won’t get to send representatives to the Democratic National Convention next year without changes approved by the national party.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
