
# Mysterious Hacker Dumps Database of Infamous IronMarch Neo-Nazi Forum

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:30:00+00:00**

Author: **BeauHD**

Original: [developers.slashdot.org](https://developers.slashdot.org/story/19/11/07/2148233/mysterious-hacker-dumps-database-of-infamous-ironmarch-neo-nazi-forum?utm_source=slashdot&utm_medium=twitter)

Freshly Exhumed shares a report from ZDNet: A mysterious hacker has published today a database dump of one of the internet's most infamous neo-nazi meeting places -- the IronMarch forum. The data published today includes a full copy of its content, including sensitive details such as emails, IP addresses, usernames, and private messages. The database dump is currently being analyzed by a multitude of entities, including law enforcement, in the hopes of linking forum members to accounts on other sites and potentially exposing their real-world identities. The drive to unmask forum members comes from the fact that IronMarch, while a little-known site to most internet users, has been the birthplace of two of today's most extreme far-right neo-nazi movements -- the Atomwaffen Division and SIEGE Culture -- with the first being accused of orchestrating at least eight murders around the world. The forum's data was published earlier today via the Internet Archive portal. "The published information includes a carbon copy of the site, from user details to forum posts, and from private messages to multi-factor authentication settings and forum management logs," reports BleepingComputer. "The forum's database includes details on 3,548 registered profiles. The last user's database ID is 15,218; however, the dump only included details on 3,548 accounts -- most likely due to spam or deleted profiles. The registration date for the last user is November 20, 2017, suggesting the database is a copy of the site near the time it went offline."
