
# Quebec storm: Over 700,000 homes still without power as winds begin to die down

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:31:00+00:00**

Author: **Rachel Lau Digital reporter, CTV News Montreal | Contact Amy Luft Digital reporter | Contact Matthew Lapierre Digital reporter, CTV News Montreal | Contact**

Original: [Montreal](https://montreal.ctvnews.ca/quebec-storm-over-700-000-homes-still-without-power-as-winds-begin-to-die-down-1.4665624)

MONTREAL -- Wind gusts, sometimes as strong as 100 km/h, knocked out power lines and blew down trees across Quebec on Friday, killing at least one person and leaving hundreds of thousands of Quebecers in the dark.
More than 3800 power outages left 740,000 Hydro-Quebec customers without electricity as of 10 p.m., including 50,000 customers on the island of Montreal. Some may not see their power return for several days, the agency said.
But, as of 11 p.m. winds were beginning to weaken across the province. In Montreal, Environment Canada forecast 20 km/h winds, gusting up to 30 km/h--a far cry from earlier in the day, when Trudeau airport, in Dorval, registered gusts as high as 105 km/h. 
Still, Hydro-Quebec crews worked through the night, and would still be repairing downed wires into early next wek, the agency said.
"Our crews, before even thinking of repairing the line, sometimes they must act like lumberjacks, so there's lots of work before we can think of repairing the grid," explained Hydro-Quebec spokesperson Francis Labbe. "We suggest the population get prepared for maybe one or two days in the dark, it's better to be prepared than not prepared enough."
Several hundred lineworkers were working to restore service, the agency said. But strong winds continued to cause new outages Friday afternoon, they added.
"Some of the outages will be easy to repair, but we have so many outages that we have to spread our teams all across the province so that might complicate everything," Labbe said. 
He advised Quebecers to avoid any trees or hydro poles they think could be weakened from the strong winds.
