
# Two people from the North among 29 injured after coach travelling to London overturns in France

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:41:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/world/two-people-from-the-north-among-29-injured-after-coach-travelling-to-london-overturns-in-france-961592.html)

A bus travelling from Paris to London has crashed in northern France leaving 29 people injured, including five people with serious injuries.
A FlixBus coach tipped over around 11am Irish Time after the incident on the A1 motorway in northern France today.
The coach, operated by a regional partner for the German transport firm, was carrying 32 passengers when it tipped over in the rain and overturned in the Somme region, close to the village of Ablaincourt-Pressoir.
FlixBus have said five people were seriously hurt and other passengers have been treated in local hospitals.
Pictures of the incident show the bus on its side on a grass verge close to the road with a broken front windshield and a large hole in the front right side.
According to local police, citizens of 10 nations were injured in the crash, including Northern Ireland.
Two 20-year-olds from the North, Jamie Kerr and Gemma Given, were treated for head and hand injuries.
Mr Kerr’s father John Kerr told the BBC the trip had been “a pretty traumatic end to a Halloween weekend”.
He said the couple were offered a bus back to the UK but decided to make their own way home.
“I feel a bit more could have been done for them,” he said.
“They’ll learn a lot from all of this, but I’m expecting an emotional response when they get home and it all hits them.”
Local police and firefighters attended the scene.
