
# Censof, DGB, Techfast, Luster, Mintech, Prestariang, Teck Guan

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:08:36+00:00**

Author: **Syahirah Syed Jaafar**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/censof-dgb-techfast-luster-mintech-prestariang-teck-guan)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 4): theedgemarkets.com highlighted seven stocks with momentum at Bursa Malaysia's afternoon close today. Three stocks had positive momentum while four showed negative momentum.
Stocks with positive momentum were:
Censof Holdings Bhd – up one sen to 14 sen
DGB Asia Bhd – up one sen to 17 sen
Techfast Holdings Bhd – up four sen to 43 sen
Stocks with negative momentum were:
Luster Industries Bhd – up 1.5 sen to 10 sen
Minetech Resources Bhd – unchanged at nine sen
Prestariang Bhd – up two sen to 54 sen
Teck Guan Perdana Bhd – up five sen to RM1.14
The list of stocks with momentum is generated using a proprietary mathematical algorithm highlighting stocks with a build-up in trading volume and price. The algorithm differentiates between stocks that exhibit positive (+ve) momentum and negative (-ve) momentum.
This list is not a buy or sell recommendation. It merely tells you which stocks are seeing higher than normal volume and price movements.
The share price may move up or down from this point. But the “+ve” (suggesting a rising price trend on volume) and “-ve” (suggesting a falling price trend on volume) indicators should give readers a better idea of what the market is buying and when to sell. Note also that momentum generally only persists for a short period of time.
However, each stock has an accompanying fundamental score and valuation score to help readers evaluate the attractiveness of the stocks, if they want to ride the momentum.
For more detailed financial information and reports on the above-mentioned stocks, please subscribe to AbsolutelyStocks at www.absolutelystocks.com
