
# BTS star Jungkook investigated by police after terrifying car crash

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:16:36+00:00**

Author: **Sofia Petkar**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/bts-star-jungkook-investigated-police-20806193)

BTS star Jungkook has been involved in a car crash, according to reports from South Korea.
The K-pop icon, real name Jeon Jung-kook,  is being questioned by police after making a "mistake" and violating the Road Traffic Act in Seoul.
It is claimed the 22-year-old smashed into a taxi with his Mercedes on November 2, 2019.
Both the singer and taxi driver suffered minor injuries and were taken to a nearby hospital for treatment.
 
In a statement, a police official told Kstarlive: "We can't confirm the details of the incident yet.
"We're investigating the details of the incident."
The band's management Big Hit told Mirror Online: "As the case has not been closed yet, further details cannot be revealed, but Jeon was involved in a car accident due to his mistake. Both Jungkook and the victim (other driver) did not suffer a major injury.
"Jungkook admitted that he violated the Road Traffic Act immediately after the accident. The scene of the accident was resolved and police questioning was completed according to the due process, and an amicable settlement was made with the victim afterwards.
"We once again apologise to the victim, and we also express apologies for causing concern to fans."
BTS are currently one of the world's most successful pop groups, and have reached number one on iTunes in more than 65 countries.
The K-Pop band is made up of seven male members - Jin, Suga, J-Hope, RM, Jimin, V and Jungkook.
The group was formed in 2013 and have achieved phenomenal global success in a short amount of time.
Known for their meticulously choreographed dance style and boyish good looks, the band has amassed a huge and devoted fanbase worldwide.
In 2018, BTS became the first Korean pop group to address the United Nations, opening up about overcoming their insecurities.
Since then, they managed to top the US charts with their album 'Love Yourself', and in 2017 became the first ever Korean group to perform at the American Music Awards.
Jungkook was ranked the 8th most loved celebrity in South Korea in 2018, and has been hailed as one of the most influential role models in the country.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
