
# Horamavu main road’s blink-and-miss divider

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/horamavu-main-roads-blink-and-miss-divider/articleshow/71883326.cms)

The divider on the Horamavu main road turns into an accident hotspot for vehicles at night. The low-lying, narrow divider made of cement becomes invisible at night, making speeding and heavy vehicles prone to accidents. As the road has no street lights on the stretch, the cemented divider with no paint or reflectors is hard to identify for speeding vehicles, after sun-down. A portion of the divider also seems to be missing leading to two wheelers taking wrong u-turns. With no caution, such dangerous u-turns have also been causing two-wheeler accidents in the area. “Last week, a mini truck nearly toppled after it hit the divider as the visibility was very low. The broken portion of the divider leads to many taking u-turns which causes risks to them due to lack of signals. Reflective signals are the need of the hour to avoid major incidents, especially at night. The design of the divider lacks foresight and looks like a temporary fix,” informs Kiran Palaka, resident of Horamavu main road. Residents demand that either the divider be completely removed and replaced with barricades, with reflective stickers or it be painted and repaired. The height of the divider needs immediate attention from the authorities.
