
# Astronaut Casts Election Day Vote From International Space Station

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lisette Voytko**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisettevoytko/2019/11/05/astronaut-casts-election-day-vote-from-international-space-station/)

Topline: Astronaut Andrew “Drew” Morgan voted in Tuesday’s election while in orbit 250 miles above Earth, thanks to a team effort between NASA and Lawrence County, Pennsylvania’s department of voter services.
Crucial quote: Morgan made sure to send a thank-you note from space: “Dear Mr. Allison: Thank you for facilitating my vote from on board the International Space Station. Cordially, Andrew R. Morgan, COL, US Army, US Segment Lead, International Space Station.”
Key background: Texas passed a law in 1997 (signed by then-governor George W. Bush) that allowed astronauts to vote from space. Most astronauts live in Houston, where NASA’s Johnson’s Space Center is located⁠—which is why Texas passed the voting law. According to NASA’s Tumblr, astronauts must indicate which elections they will participate in a year before launch. “It's something that, you know, you might or might not expect it to mean a great deal. But when you're so removed from your planet, small things do have a large impact,” said David Wolf, the first astronaut to vote from space, in a 2008 NPR interview. Wolf voted from the Russian Mir Space Station in 1997. 
Tangent: Despite concerns that voter suppression is widespread throughout the country, the topic hasn’t come up in the past 31 consecutive presidential debates. 
