
# Apple Gives $2.5 Billion to Help Alleviate California's Housing Crisis

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:51:46+00:00**

Author: **Penny Starr**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/04/apple-joins-google-facebook-with-donation-to-help-housing-crisis-in-california-ups-ante-to-2-5-billion/)

The tech company joins Google and Facebook, with each company vowing to provide $1 billion toward finding housing solutions in a state run by Democrats for decades.
“It’s just unsustainable,” Cook said in an interview with the Axios website published on Monday. ”This problem is so big that the public sector cannot do it alone.”
Axios reported that most people can’t afford the housing in the Bay Area and have to make long commutes to work.
“This unparalleled financial commitment [is] proof that Apple is serious about solving this issue” Newsom said in a press release acknowledging the financial boon. “I hope other companies follow their lead.”
Apple also shared how its donation would be used:
Axios also reported on some of the radical moves localities are using to try to solve the housing problem, including Minneapolis and the state of Oregon, where single family units have been banned.
Included in Axios’s housing coverage is a report on housing in California done by George Mason University’s Mercatus Center that showed that cities in the states that had the best housing markets had fewer regulations, including less strict land-use laws.
“They’re frozen in a state of half-suburbanization, a patchwork of farms and subdivision,” Mercatus Center Senior Research Fellow Falim Furth said of the report. “In some places, you can’t build out but you can build up, and in others you can’t build up but you can build out. In a lot of California, you can’t do either one.”

        Follow Penny Starr on 
        
          Twitter
        
      
