
# The Great Flood by Edward Platt review – a wade through waterlogged Britain

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:00:21+00:00**

Author: **Karl Whitney**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2019/nov/01/the-great-flood-by-edward-platt-review)


        From sunken cities to coastal catastrophe … the everyday misery of the climate crisis
      
Edward Platt travels around Britain in search of the kind of apocalyptic deluge that increasingly swamps the country’s urban and rural landscapes. He is most interested in what people’s accounts of flooding, and his own first-hand observations of wading through sodden fields and streets, can tell him about the experience of such calamity. He writes that he’s “less preoccupied with the point the water reached or the rate at which it went down than with the emotional and psychological marks it left behind”.
How we visualise climate catastrophe tends toward the epic, the exotic. We seek to dramatise it through faraway scenes of the Romantic sublime gone awry: the polar ice collapsing from a glacier, the monstrous tsunami hitting a shore on the other side of the world. Platt instead locates its effects in the everyday: the flooding experienced by England’s picture postcard towns and occasionally decrepit coastal settlements. He shows how these places are turned upside down by torrents of raging water, as rivers, streams and culverts strain and break under the pressure of extreme rainfall, or sea walls and floodgates give way, and how the flood is merely the starting point for months and often years of misery as houses are dried out, refurbished – and, frequently, soon deluged again. The Great Flood makes the global local in the same way that the climate emergency does.
Platt’s trip takes place during the extreme floods of the winter of 2013-14, the wettest on record in the south of England, and provides him with plenty of opportunities for waterlogged reportage: in one village in the Somerset Levels he accepts a lift in a canoe along the flooded main road to get to his car. His journey takes him to houses that have been modified to stand a couple of feet above ground level, and coastal shacks sitting in the shadow of sea walls. He arrives at some destinations in the midst of their inundation, finding them spookily empty except for the odd hardy, or foolhardy, soul.
In Easton Bavents, a hamlet on the edge of Southwold, Suffolk, Platt meets Peter Boggis, “the King Canute of East Anglia”. His clifftop land had been so severely eroded by the sea – the 340 acres bought by his family in 1924 had been worn down to 160 acres by 2002 – that he constructed his own coastal defences from rubble, building a road to the cliff’s edge along which a convoy of lorries travelled. While some locals were irritated by the heavy traffic, others admired him as “a hero of an inimitably English kind”, Platt writes: “self-reliant, inventive, dismissive of bureaucratic procedure, and, above all, eager for his day in court”.
The crossover between the geography of The Great Flood and the so-called “left behind” fringe places of Britain is striking. Although for the most part Platt visits these locations in the years before the EU referendum, Brexit seems foreshadowed in the feelings of people who have experienced the misery of flooding: of being ignored by the authorities, of having to get by on their own. Frequently, the Environmental Agency is mentioned as a focus of people’s anger – a faceless, omnipotent bureaucracy on which every failure can be pinned. To his credit, Platt is neither fully dismissive nor wholly credulous of this position, and instead considers the tenor of his interviewees’ complaints late in the book as he stands outside the agency’s office near Millbank in London. This section is an exemplary piece of Brexit-era autocritique in which the author tries to gauge how much his own London-centric privilege might have shaped his attitudes. “I had become so accustomed to the view from the centre that I had forgotten the purpose of my trips, which was to try to capture life in the marginal places that were prone to flood. (One of his chosen towns is Jaywick in Essex, one of the poorest places in England. It is surrounded by a sea wall that, when flooded, has filled up like a saucer. It lies within Brexiter Douglas Carswell’s constituency.)
Like any good psychogeographer, Platt is drawn to the mythical dimensions of the places he visits. He becomes particularly interested in stories of sunken cities, especially those supposedly inundated as a result of someone maliciously or accidentally opening a floodgate. He finds that these myths persist in the explanations people provide for severe flooding: a nonexistent floodgate opened by an uncaring bureaucracy – rarely an individual – upstream, or a reservoir venting excess water.
Musing on the metaphorical dimensions of “opening the floodgates”, Platt considers how the phrase resonates with people in the era of mass migration. (How many times did we hear variations of this metaphor during the Brexit campaign?) He shrewdly incorporates the crude moments of hostility and prejudice he overhears that speak of a deeper malaise. Even in the smallest, ostensibly deserted village he encounters someone who’ll insist that it’s “crowded”. An official he meets at a pumping station tells him he’s there to stop “pikies” stealing diesel. In the aftermath of a flood in Boston, Lincolnshire, a woman tells him of a joke doing the rounds: that the town “had finally drowned under its weight of immigrants”.
Platt’s writing combines sharp reportage with a poet’s eye for a striking image that vividly captures the otherworldly, waterlogged landscapes he travels through. He finds houses transformed by their inundation into “mouldering palazzos beside a still canal”. What if “flooding was not an aberration, but the restoration of the natural order of things”, he wonders. “The stories we have always told ourselves” aren’t relevant any more, he concludes, bracingly. “When it comes to climate change, we are all to blame.”

        • The Great Flood is published by Picador (£16.99). To order a copy go to guardianbookshop.com. Free UK p&p on all online orders over £15.
      
