
# Creative Leader Takes A Shot At Account Management

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mat Zucker**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/matzucker/2019/11/05/takes-a-shot-at-account-management/)

The instructor gently adjusted my hand to hold the gun higher in the air and flush against my face.My new client Michael watched from a few steps behind. I wanted to turn and ask for a photo, but I didn’t want to accidentally shoot him in a Dick Cheney move. We had just met, and his blatant amusement made it clear he knew the closest I’d ever been to holding a shotgun was a blow dryer.
“Now,” the instructor directed, “Watch for the clay pigeons.”
We were at a skeet shooting range in Maine. Michael was vice president of marketing for a major auto brand, one of my key accounts at an agency I had just joined that month as a creative director. It was a multi-million dollar relationship, the agency’s fifth largest.
Michael wanted someone from the agency to join him for conversations with a new retail partner. He had been expressing dissatisfaction with the agency’s strategic leadership and the creative product, so the solution seemed simple: Send the new guy.
Client bonding meant two full days, dinner, drinks, and a memorable social activity. I would have preferred martinis and a kale salad at the Soho House, but for the car company and the partner in Maine, the great outdoors was more on-brand.
With 12 years in business at that point, I could hold my own in most client situations, but this was multiple days of small talk, and no account director to manage it.  Of course, just as the agency neglected to tell me during the interview process that the account was in trouble, I wasn’t going to share worries about my abilities to entertain.
“It’ll start at the left, Mat,” Michael coached me from behind, helping me point the gun towards the clouds versus the ground.
To be honest, I was relieved the activity wasn’t whitewater rafting — hallucinations of us tipping over a giant waterfall in matching vests. At least on a skeet range, the worst I could do was nick him in the ear.
“PULL!” I yelled like a pro, sending a clay pigeon into the sky in front of me. As Michael had promised, it flew in from the left. I squinted my eyes through the v-shaped pointer and pulled the heavy trigger. Boom.
I vastly underestimated how loud it would ring and how heavy it would feel against my cheek. Michael applauded and the instructor nodded approvingly.
Back in the hotel, before dinner we met up for a drink. My hearing had mostly returned.
We first talked about the day of meetings. The partner team liked my idea of a putting a real car in their stores, the open trunk filled with products. And then at our car dealers we’d have the cars on the floor filled with their seasonal sports gear.
“You were great today,” Michael said. “It was helpful to have you here with me. Thank you for coming.”
This was good to hear, especially as the new person.  A compliment I was to learn, though, is also a good wedge to an awkward topic.
“You know you guys are on the skids with us, right?” he asked, sipping his drink. I thought that was a witty line from an automaker.
“Yup, things haven’t sounded good.” I wanted to show I was well informed, even if I wasn’t directly culpable.
He talked about his team’s issues working with my agency, problems that seem to fester without resolution, a lack of customer insight on the team, and most of all, creative direction that he sought beyond design — marketing creativity that drives customers to dealerships for road tests.
“That’s what I do,” I said bluntly. This was mostly true.
 I repeated a challenge that I had learned when a technology client was about to fire us. “So will you give us a chance to turn it around?”  Not me. Us.
Michael made a face to show that he was thinking about it. I don’t know if it was because I had previously worked at a famous shop, because I was new and deserved a chance, if I was truly useful during today’s meeting, or simply because I didn’t cry or kill him on the shooting range.
He said: “Yes, absolutely.”
We clinked glasses. I asked how long we had.  
“A few months.”
Back at work, Michael stuck to his word, and I kept mine. With new direction, a clear plan, a few people swaps, and a lot of sweat into the wee hours, our team turned around the relationship and even added more business from him, including a car launch as a game.

        The lesson is in the follow through
      
Most people will tell the truth when you are alone with them — and when you ask for it. There’s also something about being able to commit right on the spot. If I had told Michael I would just get back to him, there would have been no glass clinking.
There and in the days to come, I promised what I could do, not just what he wanted to hear. I also did what I said I would do. More attention to the ads driving leads. More strategy in the web content. First, I had to get the team behind me and rallied for it.
The last bit was endurance. I made sure it didn’t feel improved for a few weeks but lasted month after month. Then with my eyes wide open, looking ahead, I was far more ready for the next time something would fly in from the left out of nowhere.
