
# New legacy will begin with Sourav Ganguly becoming BCCI President, feels Harbhajan Singh

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:36:22+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/new-legacy-will-begin-with-sourav-ganguly-becoming-bcci-president-feels-harbhajan-singh?utm_medium=rss)


        Indian spin wizard Harbhajan Singh has claimed that Sourav Ganguly as the BCCI President will usher in a new legacy and he will be as successful a President as he was as the Indian Captain. Ganguly backed Harbhajan and other youngsters during his time as captain and revolutionized Indian cricket.
      
Indian spin legend Harbhajan Singh has always had huge respect for Sourav Ganguly because he believes that had Ganguly not backed him as a youngster, he would have not been able to play for India for such a long time. Ganguly had brought new thinking of fearlessness in the Indian camp as a captain and Harbhajan believes that as the BCCI President, Ganguly will be successful and will bring in a new era to its administration.
"He has been a great leader for India and I personally, learnt a lot playing with him. During his captaincy, he led the team flawlessly. His rich legacy was carried forward by MS Dhoni and now Virat Kohli is doing a fine job. I am sure that he will set the same example in BCCI as its president too,” Harbhajan told TOI.
“There is a certain unparalleled quality that is recognised to grant a prestigious position such as this to any individual and Dada reeks of such qualities. I am certain a new legacy begins with this journey of his just as is his field's journey," he further added.
Harbhajan was hopeful of playing ‘The Hundred’, a 100-ball tournament consisting of superstars around the world and that is to be played in England, but he had to remove his name from the draft as it was violating the regulations put forward by the BCCI. Harbhajan feels that an amendment needs to be made in these rules in order to encourage Indians to go and play in other leagues, especially for those who are in the twilight of their career and are no longer in the plans of national selectors.
"I withdrew my name because I am still playing IPL and if anyone still plays IPL or any form of cricket for BCCI, they are not allowed to play in any other league. If you ask me if I should be allowed to go to play for any other league apart from IPL then the board should consider few players," Harbhajan asserted.
"Those who are not looking to play for India or maybe they can set criteria for players, who have played more than 50 Test matches, can take permission from the board to play there. In that way, they can still protect the IPL in a very limited number of people who can play abroad (just an idea)," he added.
The veteran had last played for India back in 2016 and has picked 417 wickets in Tests and 260 wickets in ODIs for India. He has successfully played under the captaincy of two of the modern Indian greats- Virat Kohli and MS Dhoni and when asked about whose captaincy was better, he said that their styles were completely different and both were successful in their own unique way.
"I believe that India is serving its best on the performing field. We have won the maximum matches under our young talented captain Virat and legendary MS Dhoni. All credit goes to their captaincy along with the constant support of our young players. Naturally, everyone's style is different hence the executing skills would also vary but the aim is the same, it only results in a great team and fabulous performance," Harbhajan concluded.
