
# Russia vs. America: F-35s vs. Putin's Best Fighters (Who Wins?)

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Schneider**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/russia-vs-america-f-35s-043000987.html)

Key Point: When it comes to fourth generation aircraft, the F-35 has the advantage.
The Russians are now developing new air dominance aircraft with a long-range strike capability -- the Su-35 and the Pak FA (frequently called the PAK T-50) – which will pose a significant threat to NATO Europe. The U.S. F-35, the only 5th generation aircraft in production today, is critical to countering these threats.
The F-35 has recently gotten bad publicity over its dogfighting capability despite the fact the last dogfight was in 1988.  Since 1988, all air-to-air kills have been by missiles, a type of warfare in which the F-35 is designed to excel.  The F-35 is a strike fighter with multirole capabilities, which makes sense because strike missions happen every day and stealth is necessary against advanced air defenses.  While the Russian Su-35 and the PAK FA “stealth fighter” are both reportedly suffering from technical problems, the long-term threat is significant.  Russia ordered the Su-35 in 2011 for delivery by 2015 but the announced IOC has slipped to 2018.  The PAK FA has been scaled back to a single 12 aircraft squadron by 2017 because of reported cost and technical problems.  Future production will depend on trial results.  Russia constantly brags about the performance of both aircraft but its claims must be taken with caution because Russia seeks to maximize foreign sales of these aircraft.
Setting aside Russian hype, the Su-35 is clearly an improved 4.5 generation fighter aircraft with very high maneuverability (thrust vectoring) and long-range strike potential.  It has a very powerful passive phased array radar (PESA) with a claimed (probably exaggerated) detection range of 350-400-km against “fighter sized targets.”  The Su-35 can reportedly carry 8,000-kg of weapons externally including a wide variety of bombs and missiles.  The Russians say it carries advanced electronic countermeasures Russia boasts a reduced radar cross section (RCS) reportedly to 1 to 3 square meters.  Its radar should give it an advantage over most 4th generation fighters, but not necessarily over modern 4.5 generation fighters designed with elements of stealth technology and equipped with active electronically scanned (AESA) radars.

        Read the original article.
      
