
# The cost of loss of manhood

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Shyam Prasad S**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/the-cost-of-loss-of-manhood/articleshow/71882681.cms)

HC resorts to consulting Australian law to enhance compensation by 10 times for accident victim who lost his reproductive organs. Indian laws found wanting A 17-year-old who had to be castrated after a road accident managed to get enhanced compensation from the High Court after a legal battle lasting a decade. The HC increased the compensation from Rs 2.7 lakh to Rs 24 lakh considering the social stigma and loss of a sexual life, which was not adequately compensated earlier by the lower court. The enhanced compensation comes after a 10-year legal battle. What was significant in the case was that Australian law was referred to, to award the compensation as there was nothing in the Indian law about claims when a victim loses his reproductive organ to an accident. The accident occurred on December 22, 2010 in Ballari when the victim was riding pillion on a bicycle. An Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) bus collided with the bicycle leaving the victim badly injured. His penis and scrotum had to be amputated and he also suffered fractures on his clavicle bone and inferior ramus of the pelvis. The victim filed a compensation claim of Rs 50,00,000. The claims Tribunal awarded a compensation of Rs 2,70,000 under various heads. However this was challenged in the High Court. The HC said that the Tribunal had not evaluated the condition of the victim. “The nature of the injuries is so severe that it has literally changed the life of the victim and put him in a most miserable situation where even before he could attain his manhood he is being relocated from male gender to neutral gender. In the sense, the removal of testis and penis has irreversibly taken away his manhood; it is more than the physical injuries, the mental trauma that he has gone through from the date of accident till the claim petition filed by him before the trial court is not at all appreciated properly by the Tribunal.” However, there was no provision in the Motor Vehicles Act or the Workmens’ Compensation Act which talked about compensation for a victim when he loses his reproductive organ. They only talked in-depth about injuries and loss of limbs. Advocate Girish Bhat pointed to the court that the Workers Compensation Act, 1951 of Australian Capital Territory could be considered as a guideline to assess the injuries suffered by the victim in this case. A Medical Journal by George Krucik, which said that testosterone produced in the testis affects everything in men from reproductive system to muscle mass and behaviour pattern, was also referred to. The High Court said that the victim has to be awarded compensation for facing social stigma. It said that he would suffer “unseen ban from the group of men in not accepting him in their company for his physical condition which has reduced him to the level of a person of neutral gender or eunuch cannot be denied.” Compensation for this was ordered to be Rs 4,50,000. For the loss of prospects of marriage and sexual activities, he was awarded a compensation of Rs 6,00,000. The court said that “there is no chance of marriage or even sexual activities even otherwise.” The victim, after castration, would no longer produce testosterone which “would have its effect on the overall behaviour pattern, life expectancy and also the physical fitness of the man,” the court said. While the lower court had not fixed any compensation for this, the HC fixed it at Rs 5,00,000. The compensation for loss of future earning was enhanced from Rs 1,29,600 to Rs 5,00,000. The compensation for treatment was enhanced from Rs 15,000 to Rs 3,00,000.
