
# Law Union Insurance, Unity Bank and CHI Plc lead gainers’ chart on Tuesday

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:10:00+00:00**

Author: **Samuel Oyekanmi**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/06/law-union-insurance-unity-bank-and-chi-plc-lead-gainers-chart-on-tuesday/)

The market ended today in negative territory as the All-share index dropped by 0.10% to close at 26,375.35 basis points. However, Law Union Insurance Plc, Unity Bank Plc, Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc, Ecobank Transnational Plc and FCMB led the gainers’ chart while UAC-PROP, Honey well flour Plc, Nestle Nigeria Plc, AIICO Insurance and Guinness Nigeria Plc topped on the flip side.

        Top gainers
      
Law Union & Rock Insurance Plc was the best performing stock today as it gained 9.52% to close at N0.46, followed by Unity bank Plc which gained 9.43% to end the day’s trade at N0.58. Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc gained 7.89% to close at N0.41, Ecobank Transnational Incorporated Plc gained 7.69% to close at N7 while FCMB completed the list with an increase of 6.88% to close at N1.71.

        Top Losers
      
On the flip side, UACN Property Development Company Plc, lost the highest with a decline of 9.35% to close at N0.97 followed by Honeywell flour mill Plc which lost 5.77% to close at N0.98 today. Nestle Nigeria Plc also lost 4.16% to close the day’s trade at N1,150. AIICO insurance Plc declined by 2.86% to close at N0.68 as Guinness Nigeria Plc rounded the list to close at N23.3 recording a decline of 2.31%.

        Top trades by Volume
      
Aside being the best performing stock on the bourse of the NSE, Law Union Insurance Plc, was the most actively traded stock today with trades of 70.4 million shares valued at N29.6 million across 4 deals followed by UBA which traded 51.8 million shares at N335.4 million across 281 deals.
Zenith Bank stock was also highly traded on the bourse today as it traded 50.4 million shares valued at N877.05 million in 519 deals followed by Guaranty Trust bank having traded 26.02 million shares valued at N678.03 million in 280 deals while Guinness Nigeria Plc despite having a poor performance today in terms of share price, rounded off the most actively traded stocks today as it traded 18.8 million shares valued at N438.6 million across 71 deals.
