
# 'I took Pride of Britain winner Adventureman to Downing Street to speak to PM'

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:48:54+00:00**

Author: **Rachael Bletchly, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/i-took-pride-britain-winner-20797099)

I took a Superhero to No. 10 Downing Street on Tuesday to have a quiet word with the Prime Minister.
Adventureman – aka Jamie McDonald from Gloucester – doesn’t look like your typical Iron Man or Captain America.
The big A is fading from the front of his green top, his tights have lost their lycra and he hasn’t got the bulk of Hulk or Wolverine.
But Adventure­man left me marvelling at his bravery, resilience and generosity – qualities epitomised by the silver trophy in his right hand.
It was the Daily Mirror Pride of Britain Award presented to Jamie at a star-studded ceremony which you can watch for yourself on ITV at 8pm on Tuesday.
Jamie, 33, won his gong because after overcoming a rare spinal condition he raised £1million for sick children by completing a staggering series of endurance challenges including running 5,500 miles across America in his hero costume.
 
Jamie was joined at a No 10 party by other Pride of Britain winners – all heroes in their own right.
As you’ll see in the uplifting awards show, they have triumphed over tragedy, selflessly saved lives and inspired others to live their best lives.
Like Hezron Brown, 29, the Prince’s Trust Young Achiever who’s overcome a life of crime and homelessness to steer thousands of young people away from gangs and violence.
When he was five he fell into a bath of boiling water and was left badly scarred.
Other kids bullied him so badly he resorted to violence and got drawn into gang life.
He was held at gun point and escaped stabbings, but it was the threat of a ten-year sentence for robbery that finally changed his life.
Now both he and Jamie are motivational speakers, going into schools, colleges and companies to inspire, empower and bring people together.
They spoke to Boris Johnson inside No. 10 too, telling him they will use their trophies as “tangible symbols” of the qualities that make a nation proud.
And the PM told all the winners: “You’ve shown courage, determination and selflessness and, on behalf of the entire country, I say a big thank you.”
Superheroes come in many forms but all have the power to change lives.
Let’s hope they left a bit of magic behind at No 10.
