
# Police called to Great Barr banqueting suite after new parking row and fireworks claim

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:30:00+00:00**

Author: **birminghammail.co.uk**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/police-called-great-barr-banqueting-17180162)

A Great Barr wedding venue is under fire again after police were called out over parking complaints.
Residents claim traffic faced delays after guests doubled parked on surrounding streets following a wedding function at the Badshah Palace on the A34 Walsall Road, on Tuesday (October 29).
Members of the Great Barr Neighbourhood Forum took to Facebook to air their complaints.
It was also claimed a firework was let off.
But a venue spokesman denied a firework was used and did not accept the cars involved in double parking were connected to the business.
West Midlands Police said: “Police received several calls regarding car parking, and road and footpath obstructions outside Badshah Palace on Walsall Road in the Perry Barr area of Birmingham just after 3pm yesterday (Tuesday 29 October).
“Officers attended and it was established that the road had been blocked that day due to the large number of cars entering the road for a wedding, but had been resolved by parking attendants.”
Councillor Jon Hunt said: “I had a call from a resident at 3pm about parking and at 3.30pm the council agreed to send some extra traffic wardens up.
“From what I can gather there was a lot of traffic coming up to rush hour and someone let off a firework on the street allegedly.
“I need to be clear that the fireworks on the road should not be tolerated.
“The traffic wardens moved people on.”
He added: “There’s plenty of parking on Walsall Road. It’s bad when people park on that junction like that. It causes havoc and buses and people are trying to get around.”
A spokesman from Badshah Palace said: “We can’t corroborate that every car parked illegally was from our venue. They pay road tax so they can park on the road legally in a proper manner.
“We do not promote illegal parking and are working closely with the police to remove that.”
Badshah Palace has faced a barrage of complaints about alleged anti-social behaviour and noise with more than 200 people signing a petition last June asking the authorities close the venue down.
Back in 2016, Birmingham City Council’s licensing committee agreed to issue a premises licence to the former Clifton Cinema and bingo hall under a series of strict conditions.
These included installing CCTV and notifying police when more than 300 people are expected at an event.
Bosses were also told to get staff to monitor the car park and roads for any parking problems.
