
# Driving test cheats spared jail after paying others to pass for them

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:20:21+00:00**

Author: **Tom Seaward, Sarah Lumley**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/driving-test-cheats-spared-jail-20802387)

Two men have been spared jail for paying accomplices to take their driving theory tests for them - after one of them failed the test 27 times.
Sujon Miah, 31, and Abdalla Ilmi, 49, risked putting other road users at risk when they attempted to cheat their theory tests earlier this year.
Both men were caught out by eagle-eyed staff at Swindon theory test centre, and were hauled before the courts, where they each admitted supplying an article for use in a fraud.
Dad-of-two Miah, from Gloucester, was sentenced at Swindon Crown Court to 10 months in jail, suspended for two years.
And dad-of-nine Ilmi, from Birmingham, was sentenced at Swindon Magistrates' Court to five months, suspended for two years.
Prosecuting the case on behalf of the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA) Justin Davies said the agency was aware of a growing number of fraudsters.
He said these cheats travel to centres around the country to take the theory test on others' behalf.
The court heard that Miah had failed his driving theory test 27 times since 2008.
He was approached by a man who said he could help him pass the test.
They had never met but instead talked over the phone.
Miah handed over £1,000, arranging to pay the fee in instalments.
On November 20, 2018, a man attended the Swindon theory test centre claiming to be Miah.
Staff became suspicious, as the man did not look like the picture on the provisional driving licence.
He was asked to provide his signature and also handed over Miah's bank details and a picture of Miah and his family.
Staff asked if the woman in the picture was the man's wife. He initially answered no before correcting himself.
The man offered to get further proof of identification from his cousin waiting in a nearby car park and left but did not return.
A theory test was successfully completed on Miah's behalf in January.
 
That result has since been voided.
Meanwhile, Ilmi was said to have arranged with a fellow Somali man for him to sit the test on his behalf.
That individual was caught out at the Swindon theory test centre on March 19.
He claimed it was the first time he had tried to take the test, but enquiries revealed Ilmi had made three previous attempts.
The man tried to claim the photograph on Ilmi's provisional licence was old, despite it having only recently been issued.
He claimed variously that he had left his passport in Birmingham and outside the test centre before doing a runner.
Interviewed by the DVSA, Ilmi claimed he would consider commissioning someone else to do the test on his behalf again as he was desperate to pass.
Joe Maloney, representing Miah, said his client had hoped to gain his licence in order to get a better job.
His wife, two young children and Bangladesh-based mum all suffered from health issues, with Miah paying for his mum's nursing care.
He had attempted to help the police with their enquiries, giving them details about the man with whom he had dealt.
Mr Maloney said: "When he was interviewed, when the facts were presented to him, when he was confronted by the blindingly obvious he accepted it and attempted to make amends."
Tom Wilkins, defending Ilmi, said his client had nine children including a severely autistic daughter.
He wanted a driving licence so he could drive his disabled girl to appointments as she did not like taking public transport.
Miah was ordered to do 200 hours of unpaid work and costs of £400.
Ilmi must do 160 hours of unpaid work and pay £400 costs.
Sentencing them, Judge Peter Crabtree told the men: "You frustrated the test system and would have put lives at risk every time you took to the road if you had been successful."
DVSA's head of counter-fraud, Andy Rice, added: "The theory test is vital to make sure candidates have the knowledge and attitude to drive safely and responsibly, as well as making sure they know the theory behind safe driving."
