
# Boxing tonight: Schedule, TV channels, live streams, fight times, undercards and odds

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/boxing-tonight-schedule-tv-channels-20788658)

Anthony Crolla will make an emotional farewell appearance tonight in what will be his 45th and final professional boxing fight.
The likeable lad from Manchester will bow out after taking on Frank Urquiaga at the Manchester Arena he has made his own.
Crolla won the lightweight world title against the odds in 2015 having been attacked by burglars the year before.
He will make his last walk on the undercard of Katie Taylor's world title fight against Christina Linardatou.
Then later in the night, Saul 'Canelo' Alvarez will bid to win a world title at a fourth different weight when he challenges light-heavyweight ruler Sergey Kovalev.
Canelo has already won titles at super-welterweight, middleweight and super-middleweight and now jumps up another seven pounds.
Here is everything you need to know about tonight's fights...

        What time will the fights start?
      
The fights will start at around 4.30pm with Anthony Crolla due in the ring around 10.30pm.

        What TV channel are they on in the UK?
      
The fights will be shown Sky Sports Action from 7pm and on Sky Sports Main Event from 8.30pm.

        Is there a live stream?
      
The fights can be streamed by Sky Sports customers on the Sky Go app or website.

        Who is on the undercard?
      
Christina Linardatou vs Katie Taylor
Felix Cash vs Jack Cullen
Terri Harper vs Viviane Obenauf
Martin Bakole Ilunga vs Rodney Hernandez
Qais Ashfaq vs Joe Ham
Gamal Yafai vs Lee Clayton
Dalton Smith vs Michael Isaac Carrero
Nathan Farrell vs Ivica Gogosevic

        What are the odds?
      
Anthony Crolla 1/33
Frank Urquiaga 12/1

        Latest news
      
Anthony Crolla will wake up tomorrow morning, grab a coffee and some cake and join the rest of the dads at a local park watching his son at football training.
Normal life will begin straight away just hours after he hangs up his gloves at Manchester Arena tonight.
Crolla, 32, brings down the curtain on his career with a clash against Spaniard Frank Urquiaga in his 45th and final fight.
It has been a rollercoaster of a career which reached its peak when he lifted the WBA lightweight title by beating Darleys Perez and then defended it against the odds by beating Ismael Barroso.
The Manchester man who many thought would never get past British level reached the top of the world and became a hero in his home city while he even took on one of the best in Vasyl Lomachenko.
But tomorrow normality returns for one of British boxing’s favourites.
“I won’t get up too early as I’m sure there’ll be a party after the fight,” said Crolla.
“I’ll have a sleep in but then I will go to a coffee shop and have a coffee and a cake then take my little boy to football practice.
“It will feel different for a while, it will be tough. The hunger will never leave me but I will have to get other joys out of boxing.”
It is fitting that Crolla will finish his career at the venue where he came a Manchester hero but also where he started out as a professional in 2006.
There have been plenty who have been on the journey with him since he beat Abdul Rashid that night.
“One of my friends has never missed one of my last 44 fights, my mate Rob, he’s my best mate,” said Crolla.
“I think he’s happy that it’s all over because of the money he has had to spend over the years!”
The high for Crolla was not beating Perez in a rematch to become champion but actually when he defended the WBA belt against Barroso when he was expected to lose.
“To be introduced by Michael Buffer as a world champion and to go out still as a world champion, that was probably my best night,” he said.
Tonight he is the final farewell and for the first time his son Jesse, six, will be in the venue to see his dad fight for the 45th and final time.
“I hope he sticks to the football,” added Crolla, who plans to focus on being a trainer when he retires.
“I don’t want to be back here in 15 years doing his corner at Manchester Arena.”

        What time will the fights start?
      
The main event will start at around 5am UK time.

        What TV channel are they on in the UK?
      
The fights will be shown on Sky Sports Action from 1am in the UK.

        Is there a live stream?
      
Sky Sports customers can stream the fights through the Sky Go app or the website.

        Who is on the undercard?
      
Ryan Garcia vs Romero Duno
Bakhram Murtazaliev vs Jorge Fortea
Seniesa Estrada vs Marlen Esparza
Blair Cobbs vs Carlos Ortiz Cervantes
Meiirim Nursultanov vs Cristian Olivas
Evan Holyfield vs Nick Winstead

        What are the odds?
      
Canelo Alvarez 1/4
Sergey Kovalev 10/3

        Latest news
      
Canelo Alvarez will pocket £27m for his clash with Sergey Kovalev this weekend in Las Vegas.
The Mexican continues to strike it rich in the gambling mecca.
Alvarez is stepping up to light-heavyweight to take on WBO champion Kovalev at the MGM Grand Garden Arena.
It is the third fight in three-weight world champion’s 11-bout deal with streaming giant DAZN which is worth a whopping £282m.
When Alvarez signed to DAZN last year, it was the richest contract in sport’s history.
That has since been surpassed by the £332m, 12-year deal baseball star Mike Trout penned with the Los Angeles Angels.
The streaming service was keen to land the Mexican as he attracts the biggest audiences for boxing in America.
Alvarez had become a pay-per-view star with promoters Golden Boy on HBO but after the US network walked away from boxing, he was a free agent for a new broadcaster.
DAZN pulled of the coup with the intention of making the third fight between Alvarez and Gennady Golovkin.
But he has faced Brit Rocky Fielding and Brooklyn native Daniel Jacobs since joining.
DAZN had hoped he would face Golovkin in September but Alvarez has so far refused to agree to the bout as he doesn’t want to give the IBF middleweight champion a huge pay day.
That could lead to some contractual issues down the line although Alvarez will feel he is not obligated to face Golovkin.
This time he waited until a deal could be struck with Kovalev, the Russian who beat Anthony Yarde by stoppage back in August, as he aims to win a version of a world title in a fourth division.
Kovalev’s official purse, filed with the Nevada State Athletic Commission, is £2.3m but it is understood he will receive closer to £10m.
That will be a career-high purse for the man who has suffered just three defeats in 38 fights.
