
# Newcastle United transfer admission made as Aston Villa fans split over Rangers star

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/newcastle-united-transfer-news-villa-17204787)

James Milner has lifted the lid on how the first attempt from Aston Villa to buy him from Newcastle United collapsed.
Milner joined Villa in August 2008 for £12 million, two years after his first spell at Villa Park ended.
The England international moved to Villa Park on loan as part of the deal that saw Nolberto Solano sold to Newcastle.
Milner made 27 appearances in his loan stint with David O'Leary's side, scoring one goal in the Premier League.
 
Villa hero Gabby Agbonlahor has added some spice to the upcoming Premier League clash with Wolverhampton Wanderers with a response on Instagram.
Agbonlahor - who netted 86 goals in 391 appearances across 14 years with Villa - replied to a post on the social media site from Aston Villa's official account.
It was a clip of Robbie Keane's stunning long-range winner against Wolves back in January 2012, when the former Molineux man scored twice to help Villa to a 3-2 win.
That was the last Premier League meeting between the two clubs, although Villa triumphed in a Carabao Cup clash last month, while they have faced off in the Championship over recent seasons.
Read the full story HERE .
Villa fans have offered their verdict on whether their club should sign Alfredo Morelos.
Dean Smith 's side have been heavily linked with a move for the Colombian sensation, who took his tally for the season up to 20 goals from 24 matches on Saturday.
He netted a brace in Saturday's 5-2 Scottish League Cup defeat of Hearts, the match coming at the end of a week in which speculation about the 23-year-old's future mounted.
Morelos stated he would be willing to leave Ibrox for what he views as a step up, many interpreting that to be the Premier League with Villa and top flight rivals Leicester City linked with the former HJK Helsinki man.
 
Villa's John McGinn reckons his side showed exactly what they were about against Liverpool - and says the performance in the 2-1 defeat at Villa Park is a marked improvement on only a few months ago.
Dean Smith's side were beaten at the death thanks to Sadio Mane's 94th minute winner.
The Senegal international bundled home Trent Alexander-Arnold's corner in front of the travelling Reds fans, following up Andy Robertson's 87th minute equaliser - a thumping header at the back post.
While Villa fans will have made their way homes from B6 despondent given their side were in the lead from the 21st minute when Mahmoud Trezeguet volleyed home, McGinn took a more philosophical view.
More on that HERE
