
# iPhone SE 2: Kuo expects at least 20 million units shipped in 2020

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:07:19+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/06/iphone-se-2-kuo-expects-at-least-20-million-units-shipped-in-2020/)

iPhone SE 2: Kuo expects at least 20 million units shipped in 20205 (100%) 1 vote
The well-known analyst Ming-Chi Kuo returns to talk about the next budget iPhone that will be launched during the spring of 2020, also known by the provisional name of iPhone SE 2.
Kuo’s new forecasts shared in a note for investors intercepted by colleagues from MacRumors, suggest that Apple should be able to ship 20 million iPhone SE 2 with relative ease in 2020, a figure that can go up to 30 million considering the most optimistic scenarios. The forecast update shows a drop in the estimate, since the previous Kuo note indicated the overcoming of the 30 million, while now this could only be achieved under favorable conditions.
The analyst reviewed the forecast after collecting more information from the production chain. And obtained more concrete data on which he bases his analysis. Recall that the iPhone SE 2 could arrive with a different name. And will share all the main aesthetic elements of the iPhone 8.
The hardware will be based on that of iPhone 11 with some differences. In the economic model, we will find the Apple A13 Bionic SoC 3GB of RAM. Alongside with single rear camera and support for wireless charging. It will have a 4.7″ LCD display (without 3D Touch) and Touch ID sensor. All proposed at a starting price that should be equal to $399.
