
# Check out the concept art of Diablo IV's regions, enemies and classes

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:22:48+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/diablo-iv-concept-art-shows-world-enemies-characters-and-more?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Blizzard Entertainment
      
Diablo IV was announced at BlizzCon 2019. While it's still early days, Blizzard has released a sizeable amount of information on the game. Blizzard has also shared a fair bit of concept art, which shows the dark, haunted direction of the game. Below, you can check out artwork of some of the five regions in the game that Blizzard has released, alongside artwork of the different enemies, classes and more. First up is the region of Scosglen.

        Source: Blizzard Entertainment
      
This is the realm of Druids, a place where savage nature has taken hold. Werewolves lurk in the forests, while a new enemy type called the Drowned waits along the shores. Next up is the Fractured Peaks.

        Source: Blizzard Entertainment
      
This snowy region is home to an order of monks, who take shelter from the harsh weather and frigid climate. Deep below, there are dark things stirring. Finally, we have some concept art of Hawezar.

        Source: Blizzard Entertainment
      
These swamps are home to witches and snakes, with treachorous things creeping through the mire. The full game will have five regions: Scosglen, Fractured Peaks, Dry Steppes, Hawezar and Kejhistan. These will combine for one seamless overworld that has distinct, different locations.
Here, you can see the three classes that have been revealed so far. There'll be five when the game releases but for now, we know about the Barbarian, Druid and Sorceress. You can take a gander at concept art of these three classes and their legendary sets of equipment below.

        Source: Blizzard Entertainment
      
Powerful heroes need powerful opponents and Diablo IV seems to have those in spades. Herds of bestial Goatmen are roaming the wilds, encroaching on civilization. Duriel, one of the Lesser Evils and the Lord of Pain, is making a return after last appearing (and only appearing) in Diablo II. Finally, the big bad, main antagonist of the game is Lilith, Queen of Succubi.

        Source: Blizzard Entertainment
      
There's no release date right now and according to Blizzard, the game isn't coming anytime soon. Whenever it does, it'll be available on PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC. We'll be sure to keep you posted on any other news or updates we learn about Diablo IV.

        Related: Diablo IV has been announced, showing a world of evil and darkness, here's everything we know
      
Evil is waiting
Diablo III continues the story of the Diablo series, with multiple classes to choose from and the Reaper of Souls expansion included, this is the best way to play Diablo III.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ Here's the 'real' reason why the Google Pixel 4 lacks 4K/60fps support Isaac Reynolds, the lead Pixel camera product manager revealed during an interview with The Vergecast that Google did not add 4K/60fps support to the Pixel 4 series as most people don’t actually need the functionality.
      

        Android & Chill RCS on Android is possible and it would be great if it weren't for carriers This is why we can't have good things.
      

        Saturday's best deals: Fire TV Stick bundles, Echo devices, & more Looking to spend some of your hard-earned money on this fine fall Saturday? Here are some great way to do it while saving a bit in the process.
      

        best of the best Modern Warfare looks stunning in 4K, the best enhanced games for PS4 Pro If you want the most outstanding experiences on PlayStation 4 that take advantage of the PS4 Pro's power to enhance their graphics and performance, these are some of the best games you can get.
      
