
# Unhappy Halloween At LAX As New Rideshare Pickup Plan Creates Long Lines, Hour-Long Waits

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Michael Goldstein**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/michaelgoldstein/2019/11/01/unhappy-halloween-at-lax-as-new-rideshare-pickup-plan-creates-long-lines-hour-long-waits/)

Airline passengers had a horrible Halloween at Los Angeles International Airport, (LAX), after the glitch-filled debut of the new shuttlebus-to-rideshare-lot system (hashtag #LAXit, or ‘LAX exit’) An unmitigated disaster that left customers waiting for over an hour and facing surge pricing, many vowed to fly into Burbank Airport (BUR), John Wayne in Orange County (SNA), other local airports, or skip Los Angeles entirely if possible.
Why was banning rideshare pickup necessary? Los Angeles International is the world’s fourth largest airport by number of passengers (87.5 million in 2018). It also ranked second from the bottom in the J.D. Power North American airport survey, for its compelling combination of congestion and construction.
Currently there is no rail-based public transit to LAX, unlike almost every other major airport. Instead, buses, private cars, limos, taxis and rideshare vehicles all must depend on the region’s jammed roadways. (When key freeways were shut down by fire this week, many departing passengers were delayed or missed flights.) Once vehicles finally arrive at the LAX “horseshoe,” they face another traffic jam. A spokesman says that LAX’s maximum capacity for cars is about 100,000 a day. “We reach capacity every day, and it backs up in the neighborhoods.” By ending rideshare pickups, he insisted “We are taking 15,000 trips out of the system.”
Under the new system, which LAX engineers spent a year developing, Uber, Lyft, and taxis were no longer to be allowed to pick up passengers within the congested airport. Instead, two curb lanes around the lower roadway of the horseshoe were devoted to shuttle buses, which were supposed to run every five minutes. Bleary-eyed passengers were to wait at each terminal for a bus, which would then whisk them around the oval back to a parking lot outside terminal one, where four lanes were reserved for taxis, Lyft and Uber (two lines.)
What could go wrong? The hometown newspaper, the Los Angeles Times, editorialized, “LAX is a traffic-choked zoo. Banning ride-hailing pickups was the right move.” The anonymous editorial, published two weeks before launch, added, “it is a fair and temporary price to pay now for the greater goal: a modern airport that is actually easy to navigate and convenient for all travelers, and that is a credit to Los Angeles, not an embarrassment.”
As it turned out, the first week of operations was such an embarrassment that Los Angeles International Airport officials apologized for an “unacceptable level of service” after passengers faced traffic gridlock (remember those two curb lanes taken from the traffic flow around the airport?) and non-arriving or crowded shuttle buses. Once passengers departed the packed buses, wait times for Lyft and Uber in the rideshare lot, (which Uber felt was too small even before the system launched) were often more than an hour. To make matters even worse, a shortage of drivers (no doubt caused by the difficulty of getting into the airport) triggered surge pricing for the lucky passengers who actually got a ride.
“We really, really apologize for people who got caught in that,” said Michael Christensen, LAX’s deputy executive director of operations and maintenance.
Passengers were not so accepting. Garineh Magarian, posting on Twitter @garinehm, noted “LAXit is the Fyre Fest of airport ridesharing. #LAXit”
A Twitter user named @AnnabelleHopeTO noted, “Taking an uber in LAX is now a nightmare with the new system they implemented 2 days ago! You need to take a 10-15min shuttle to a parking lot + order uber & get a PIN # then wait in a long line for your turn then share the PIN with driver…Expect crazy high prices too!”
In a reply, she added, “Haha it was crazy and they need to pay for all those employees! It adds a lot of time for nothing with the shuttle though and prices were more than double..almost triple..I had to play with the app for like 30min to get a decent price haha.”
On the first day of operations, the official LAX Airport account @flyLAXairport tweeted “Removing about 15% of daily traffic from the Central Terminal Area with #LAXit is having a BIG impact already: Lower Level traffic is 15-16% faster than normal and Upper Level is 80% faster than normal.”
Tito Melega @titomelega responded, “Yeah, We can all see how well this is working. @MayorOfLA, fix this nightmare.”
The good news is that the airport has plenty of time to fine-tune the system. It will be in place until 2023, when an elevated “people mover” is supposed to speed people Jetsons-like around the terminals.
