
# Xiaomi Mi TV 5 and Mi TV 5 Pro series launched in China with 55″, 65″, and 75″ models

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:11:00+00:00**

Author: **Tushar Mehta**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/xiaomi-mi-tv-5-pro-series-55-65-75-models-china-launch/)

Xiaomi is recognized as a smartphone brand in markets outside of Asia, but it has also helped users in markets like China and India reap the best value from general living room electronics and connected devices. Xiaomi’s line-up of LED TVs is incredibly popular in these markets for the high-value conversion they bear, and today, at the launch of the Mi CC9 Pro smartphone, they have also revealed six models for the new lineup of the new generation of Mi TVs, namely the Mi TV 5 and the Mi TV 5 Pro, including 55″, 65″, and 75″ models with 4K resolution.
Xiaomi’s new Mi TV 5 and the Mi TV 5 Pro variants score high on style quotient because of their ultra-slim profile and super small bezels. Evidently, the Pro series is relatively more powerful, attractive, and is even priced higher. The smallest of the Pro models i.e. the 55″ model has a thickness of only 5.9mm, which is even thinner than most premium smartphones. The 65″ and the 75″ models have 6.0mm and 9.9mm of thickness, respectively. The Pro models use a screwless frame carved out of a single sheet of aluminum. Likewise, the bezels on the 55″ model have been narrowed down to just 1.8mm (0.07″), which is negligible compared to the massive display.
The Mi TV 5 and the Mi TV 5 Pro are utilizing 4K LED-backlit panels with Quantum Dot technology, but the ones used on the Pro variant have superior color and dynamic range. The Mi TV 5 Pro’s 4K panel is certified for HDR10+ playback and support 108% of the NTSC color gamut. The standard ones only get support for 85% of the NTSC gamut and lack HDR10+ playback compatibility. The Mi TVs in both of these ranges can play 8K content over USB but just like the Redmi TV, they downscale the content to 4K by software decoding and support maximum playback of 24fps.
Xiaomi has deployed a 12nm Amlogic T972 chipset on the TVs. The previous generations of Mi TVs also use Amlogic chips with quad-core CPUs. While the Pro gets 4GB RAM and 64GB of inbuilt eMMC storage, the non-Pro gets 3GB RAM and 32GB storage. In terms of audio, both TVs support Dolby Audio and are tuned for DTS-HD lossless sound output.
The Mi TV 5 and the Mi TV 5 Pro come with four far-field microphones so that you can interact with Xiaomi’s XiaoAI voice assistant and control the ecosystem of Xiaomi’s IoT products like water or air purifiers from the TV itself. In terms of software, both the TV come with PatchWall UI. This should be replaced with Android TV software if and when Xiaomi launches this in other markets such as India.
The Mi TV 5 and the Mi TV 5 Pro come in three sizes each i.e. 55″, 65″, and 75″. The prices for these models in China are:
Keep in mind that these are pricing for the Chinese region. It is currently unknown if Xiaomi will bring the TV over to other regions like India. Seeing how popular Xiaomi’s Mi TV 4 series has been in India, we wouldn’t be surprised if they do plan to bring it to India.
