
# Popeyes stabbing: Man killed 'in row over chicken sandwich' at fast food restaurant

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:49:04+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/breaking-popeyes-stabbing-man-killed-20812922)

A 28-year-old man has been stabbed to death in a row over a popular chicken sandwich at a Popeyes branch in the US, reports say.
The individual was knifed at around 7pm local time at Oxon Hill Popeyes in Maryland, US, according to reports.
Police say the stabbing happened after two men went outside over a dispute about one of them cutting in line at the restaurant, Fox 5 reports.
Popeyes brought back its popular £3.10 chicken sandwich on Sunday, after it ran out of stock following the initial release in August.
Clashes have taken place across America since the relaunch, with fast food fans queuing up to get their hands on the sought-after treat.
Speaking about the stabbing, Jennifer Donelan, director of media relations at Prince Georges County Police Department, told Fox 5: "We have been able to determine, preliminarily, that this is related to the release of the sandwich here at this restaurant.
"This individual was in line specifically for the sale of the sandwich when another customer and he got into an altercation and that ended with the victim being stabbed outside of the business."
Police officers found the victim in the car park, suffering from stab wounds, when they arrived at the scene.
He was reportedly rushed to hospital but died around an hour later.
In a video of another clash involving the Popeyes chicken burger, a man can be seen screaming at staff as he impatiently waits for his order of 10 chicken sandwiches.
A different clip shows a driver punching an older man after he bangs on his window at a drive-thru.
Customers have reportedly waited hours to get their hands on the delicious treat, with footage on social media showing queues of cars lining up outside Popeyes branches.
 
