
# Rubbish scattered across Central Park after cafe roof is damaged

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:59:47+00:00**

Author: **Jess Morcom**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/rubbish-scattered-across-central-park-3504314)

Storms over the weekend caused some destruction around the city including to the roof of The Meadow Café at Central Park.
Members of the public contacted Plymouth Live to say that poor weather conditions had caused damage to the building and blown polystyrene pieces all over the ground.
Plymouth City Council have confirmed that the rubbish has now been cleared, and that 'appropriate measures' are being taken to get the roof back to normal.
Prior to the storm, a temporary fix to the roof was already in place, along with scaffolding for several weeks, to attend to a leak with one of the skylights.
The temporary fixture was taken clean off in the heavy wind and rain causing further damage and litter on the ground.
Yesterday, PCC issued statement saying a 'big thank you' to all those that helped with the clean-up.
In a post shared yesterday referencing the action taken to minimise bad weather damage around the city, they wrote: "Thank you to the staff of the Meadow Cafe and members of the public who helped to clean up some damage in Central Park.
"The storm caused quite a mess with a temporary fix to the cafe roof lifted clean off by the winds. As a result, quite a lot of polystyrene was spread around the park."
At present, there is now a sign on the Meadow Cafe advising that it is still open for business despite the scaffolding.
The cafe is operated by council partners FullyCATERed, and is a purpose-built eatery and flagship product of the overall Central Park improvements project.
Opening in July, the venue promotes a healthy menu and uses produce sourced from local suppliers, seasonal fresh fruit and vegetables, organic milk and no fried food.
Surplus funds form the cafe are invested back into Central Park and other educational projects, so customers can support local projects while enjoying the food and drinks.
At the opening, Tudor Evans OBE, leader of Plymouth City Council said: “I am absolutely thrilled to be here today to open this wonderful facility.
“We are so proud of this project – the location is perfect, the design is perfect, the ecology is perfect, the setup is perfect.
“The Meadow Café will help to further enhance Central Park’s reputation as Plymouth’s premier green space.”
FullyCATERed’s managing director Brad Pearce added: “We’re delighted to have the opportunity to work in partnership with the Council on this project to open The Meadow Café.
“The café is a great addition to the park, and we are excited to share our wider ethos of supporting families to access great tasting, affordable food and drink as we do in schools across Plymouth every day through CATERed.”
