
# Watching Christmas films all year round is good for your health, expert says

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:14:47+00:00**

Author: **Luke Matthews, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/luke-matthews/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/weird-news/watching-christmas-films-year-round-20831757)

If you're one to know every word from Christmas classics such as Elf and Home Alone, there's a good chance your festive film binges are doing wonders for your health.
The even better news is that we're actually being encouraged to watch Christmas movies all year round to give a boost to our 'feel-good' hormones which comes with snuggling down and turning on flicks like Love Actually and Die Hard (there's no time for that debate ).
A psychologist has revealed that these films have been proven to help people live longer and healthier lives, as reported by DoYouRemember? , so don't be a Grinch.
 
Discussing the benefits of Christmas films, the psychologist said: "It does create that neurological shift that can produce happiness.
"I think anything that takes us out of our normal habituation, the normal day in, day out, signals our senses, and then our senses measure if it’s pleasing or not.
"Christmas decorating will spike dopamine, a feel-good hormone."
As well as bringing us some much-needed festive cheer, it can also help reduce levels of stress and anxiety.
 
Watching Christmas movies with someone else can even strengthen your relationship, including anyone from a love interest to a family member.
The nostalgia which comes with the films can bring people together due to the focus on family values and close bonds.
As if you needed anymore encouragement, Netflix has revealed a host of new Christmas movies that it will be releasing in the countdown to the big day.
The original films include some big name appearances, such as Kristin Davis and Vanessa Hudgens, while also continuing the popular festive franchise A Christmas Prince.
So don't ever let anyone tell you that you can't watch Christmas films in June. Science says yes.
