
# OAPs praise Labour's pledge to fight for free TV licences for over-75s

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:25:22+00:00**

Author: **Ben Glaze, https://www.facebook.com/MirrorPolitics, Nathan Sandhu**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/oaps-praise-labours-pledge-fight-20804035)

The Mirror visited Leeds to find out what OAPs thought of Labour ’s election pledge to re-instate free TV licences for the over-75s if Jeremy Corbyn wins the election.
Retired weaver William Lowery, 76, of Leeds, said: “I have just got to the age where I’m eligible to get a free TV licence so to take that away now would be a huge shame.
“It’s one of the benefits of getting old and is often a lifeline for people my age.
"The TV is a great way of keeping in touch with the outside world and my house would be a lonely place without one.
 
“To have to pay for a TV licence – when at least 60% of what is on offer is of no relevance – is outrageous.
“I’m happy that Labour have decided to stick up for pensioners so fingers crossed. I’m quietly optimistic anyway.”
Retired assurance manager Alex Deans, 85, from Norfolk, said: “I watch the TV most evenings with my wife and it’s a way of staying up to date with social affairs.
“A free TV licence is one of the only good things about getting old, taking that away is just yet another sign of disrespect to old age pensioners.
“All parties go back on their word so it didn’t come as a surprise that the Conservatives broke their promise but that doesn’t make it any more less disappointing.
“There is nothing between the parties and Labour pledging to save free TV licences doesn’t go far enough and isn’t a game-changer for me.”
 
Property business owner Michael Rollins, 75, of Leeds, said: “I don’t mind paying for a TV licence but there are so many vulnerable pensioners who aren’t in the same position.
“You are cheating them out of a huge part of their retirement, especially if they are on their own.
“Pledging to protect the free TV licence is not enough for me to vote Labour but it’s a step in the right direction.
“The only way I would vote Labour is if Jeremy Corbyn was no longer leader.
“A TV constitutes a societal and emotional outlet for pensioners. You are not just introducing charges, you are potentially taking away a lifeline for those that can’t afford it.”
 
Retired teacher Geoffrey Hinds, 75, of Bradford, said: “I think free licences are so important for the over-75s and represent a bridge between them and society.
“It’s about caring for those of a certain age who could be isolated and lonely.
"It’s about giving something back to recompense those who have worked all of their lives and contributed.
“It’s not the first time the Conservatives have broken a manifesto promise and it won’t be the last.
“Labour’s pledge for a lot of people struggling will be a great thing but it’s not enough for me to vote in their favour.
“There are even more pressing issues which the party needs to be on the right side of first.”
 
Retired design manager Martin Cowburn, 75, and his wife Ruth Cowburn, 75, a retired interior designer, who live in Leeds, said: “Those of us who have saved for our retirement are again being made to lose out.
“I’m disgusted, to say the least, as the BBC programming is largely made up of repeats that I rarely watch the channels anyway, but I will still have to pay for a licence.
“A TV is, however, the main way of staying connected and up to date with current affairs.
“It’s great that Labour is promising to save free TV licences but I would need to see it to believe it because I don’t really trust any party at the minute.”
Brian Radcliffe, 77, a retired office manager, and his wife Arlene Radcliffe, 80, a retired officer worker, from Leeds, said: “We don’t watch an awful lot of TV but that’s another reason we shouldn’t have to pay for it.
“The money quoted for a TV licence per year doesn’t sound a lot but it all adds up and we will have to make cut backs in other spending to compensate for it.
“Labour’s pledge won’t swing my vote because it’s not a strong enough policy, I will make my mind up nearer the election.
“However, I assume every over-75 will vote against the Conservatives because of its stance on licences.
“Fortunately me and my wife try to get out as much as we can but a TV is often the only contact the over-75s have with the outside world. Taking away free licences is criminal.”
