
# Council leader apologises after 'Ram yer Union up yer hoop' tweetstorm

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:51:12+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Bark, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/stephen-bark/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/council-leader-apologises-after-ram-20815913)

Council Leader John Ross has been slammed for sending a controversial tweet with “the perfect answer to our unionist friends”.
Cllr Ross, councillor for Hamilton South, attended Saturday’s independence rally in Glasgow, where he captured and tweeted two photographs which have since drawn condemnation from opposition councillors.
The photos highlighted banners on display during the rally, one of which stated: “Ram yer union up yer hoop.” The other depicted a pile of poo with a Union Jack flying from it.
Liberal Democrat group leader Robert Brown and Labour group leader Joe Fagan have both criticised the SNP council leader for the tweet.
Cllr Brown (Rutherglen South) said: “I really don’t know what Councillor Ross is thinking of in pushing these childish and offensive tweets on social media.
“Sadly it is not the first time we have had such stuff from the SNP leader of South Lanarkshire Council.
“Unpleasant comments like this show an arrogance and contempt for the views of other people we can do without - people are already bitterly divided by the independence issue and by Brexit without senior SNP representatives stoking the fires of resentment and prejudice.
“John Ross should recognise the council leader represents everyone and stop being a cheerleader for the more unpleasant parts of his nationalist cause.”
Cllr Fagan (East Kilbride Central North) added: “John Ross is perfectly entitled to his opinions about independence, but as Leader of the Council he has a responsibility to everyone in South Lanarkshire, whether they voted Yes or No. He needs to remember that before he fires off another one of his tweets.”
Cllr Ross has deleted the tweet and apologised for sending it in the first place.
He said: “I was one of the thousands of people who took part in last weekend’s independence rally. My support for independence is well known, having been a member of the SNP since 1973, and I am proud to be part of the campaign for another independence referendum.
“It is very clear to me that the UK is presently in a mess and that Scotland would be better off out of the Union, and that was the essence of the messages on the posters that I tweeted from the rally.
“However, the wording and images were not the sort of thing I would use myself and when I had a chance to reflect on this, I decided to delete the tweet from my timeline.
“I respect that other people may not share my political views and will be careful to take cognisance of this in any future tweets.
“I am fully committed to doing the best that I can for South Lanarkshire and all its residents, regardless of their political views or none. Certainly, I never intended to offend and my apologies go to anyone who was offended.”
All councillors are subject to the Standard’s Commission for Scotland’s code of conduct and receive social media advice as part of training based on the code.
Cllr Ross tweeted from his personal account and did not tweet in connection with his role as leader of South Lanarkshire Council.
The South Lanarkshire Conservative group were contacted for comment and South Lanarkshire Council declined to comment.
