
# Election Now, Soft Brexit Later

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Rosenberg**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/markrosenberg/2019/11/05/election-now-soft-brexit-later/)


        Forward-looking updates from GeoQuant's high-frequency political risk intelligence platform. 
        *Originally distributed 11.1.19
      
With all major political parties now supporting a snap election to sort out a way forward for Brexit, we reiterate our longstanding call that (i) the UK will not be forced into a no-deal (hard) Brexit; and (ii) a negotiated (soft) Brexit is the most likely outcome, as reflected by the UK’s relatively restrained level of Institutional Stability Risk over the past 2 years. At the same time, the Conservative Party’s double-digit polling lead ahead of a 12 December election has driven our UK Mass Support Risk indicator well below levels surrounding the last snap election in 2017, when former Tory PM Theresa May’s government unexpectedly lost its majority and was forced into a coalition. Our data suggests these polling figures may well translate into a majority party Tory government that ultimately enacts Brexit along the lines of Johnson’s recent deal with the EU.
On the back of declining Mass Support Risk, we further forecast that Boris Johnson will win the upcoming election and survive as PM. That said, while Brexit divides the UK’s major parties internally, those divisions also produce cross-party alignment, facilitating opposition party electoral coordination and making the outcome more uncertain than polling suggests. If Labour and the Liberal Democrats ultimately move past their sniping and coordinate — contesting the Tories in key districts while leaving Scotland to the SNP — the opposition could find a path to victory. That path would likely result in a second referendum, pitting Labor leader Corbyn’s soft Brexit preferences up against a LibDem/partial Labor consensus around Remain. As such, while either election outcome will keep the UK on target for a soft Brexit, an opposition coalition brings the wildcard of a second popular referendum on any prevailing Brexit proposal. 
Additional analysis to follow on the app.
Building on our analysis from several weeks prior, updated projections derived from our Investment/Trade Policy Risk indicator continue to suggest that the pending “Phase 1” trade deal is unlikely to substantially impact long-term risk trajectories for both the U.S. and China. Despite ongoing bilateral discussions intended to culminate in a more formal deal announcement in mid-November, the discussions to-date have yielded virtually no meaningful reduction in our current forecast of Chinese and U.S. Investment/Trade Policy Risk (solid line in figure below) relative to our forecast from 10 October (dashed line in figure below), marking the day prior to the Phase 1 deal’s initial announcement.
Our longer-term Investment/Trade Policy Risk trajectory for China – which is less noisy than for the U.S. due to ongoing negotiations surrounding NAFTA 2.0 and trade concerns involving India, Japan, Thailand, and others – similarly continues to point toward no meaningful reduction in Risk prior to the U.S. presidential elections in November 2020, as visible in the figure above and as we hard argued from July 2019 onwards.
Full Insight (with parallel analysis of U.S. indicators) now available on the app.
Per below, Chile's ongoing popular unrest is reflected (and recently anticipated) in Social Polarization Risk, especially it's subcomponent Socio-Economic Risk, which is forecast to persist well into spring 2020. Despite having established one of Latin America's most open economies, Chile remains one of the region’s most economically unequal as well. The unrest was sparked by students protests over an increase in public transportation fares, which has since morphed into mass protests. And while the police, Chile's well-respected Caribeneros, have been used to calm unrest, growing popular and elite support for the protesters has led to cases of military disobedience. While protests have subsided as Pinera has proposed both negotiations and reforms, our data suggests that unrest will persist, as reflected by a marked divergence between our current forecast of elevated Social Polarization and Socio-Economic Risk (solid lines in figure below) and our forecast shortly following President Pinera's election in November 2017 (dashed lines in figure below), indicating a significant shift in Chile’s political-social dynamics. 
Insight to follow on the app.
The table below summarizes correlations since 1 June 2013 between our set of Focus Risk Indicators for the U.S. and the “10minus2” U.S. Treasury yield curve, a prominent recession indicator measured here by FRED/10Y2Y. In light of this week’s “hawkish” rate cut from the Fed, a stream of ambiguous data on a slowing economy, and seemingly endless political turbulence in Washington, this summary analysis suggests that elevated levels of U.S. Political Risk will continue to weigh on the U.S. economy, especially through the mechanism of higher Geopolitical Risk. What’s more, rising Regime and Government Instability Risk linked to the ongoing impeachment process are also tracking declines in the 10minus2 yield curve — and thus foreshadow a higher probability of a U.S. recession.
The figure below provides our 50-country forecast of top-line Political Risk for the month ahead (today through 29 November). Red (green) bubbles indicate increasing (decreasing risk). Full trend lines available on the app. Custom insights available for clients.
