
# How the League Two table stands after Plymouth Argyle's postponed Grimsby Town game

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:29:36+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/how-league-two-table-stands-3496126)

Plymouth Argyle dropped three positions to 13th in League Two after the latest round of matches took place while their game against Grimsby Town at Home Park was postponed.
Ryan Lowe’s Pilgrims were not in action after their fixture was called off on safety grounds after damage to the roof at the Barn Park End.
Eleven other matches went ahead in League Two, with Forest Green Rovers taking over at the top of the table.
That followed a 2-1 away win against Cheltenham Town in an all-Gloucestershire derby game.
Argyle’s next league game will be away to Forest Green on November 16, following their FA Cup first round tie at Bolton Wanderers next Saturday.
Bradford City moved up to second spot in League Two after beating Exeter City 2-0 at Valley Parade.
Three players were sent-off in that match, including Exeter skipper Jake Taylor and defender Tom Parkes.
The Bantams are a point behind Forest Green and ahead of Swindon Town and Crewe Alexandra on goal difference.
Swindon won 2-1 at home to Walsall while Crewe, the previous table toppers, lost 1-0 to visiting Port Vale.
Argyle are four points behind Newport County in seventh, who occupy the last of the four play-off positions.
Meanwhile, the Pilgrims’ under-18s were in action on Saturday but suffered a heavy defeat.
They were beaten 5-1 at home by Swindon in the EFL Youth Alliance on the 3G pitch at the Manadon Sports Hub, with striker Rubin Wilson getting their goal.
League Two results: Bradford City 2 Exeter 0, Cambridge United 2 Crawley Town 1, Carlisle United 2 Macclesfield Town 1, Cheltenham Town 1 Forest Green Rovers 2, Crewe Alexandra 0 Port Vale 1, Mansfield Town 2 Colchester United 3, Morecambe 1 Leyton Orient 0, Newport County 1 Salford City 2, Oldham Athletic 2 Northampton Town 2, Scunthorpe United 0 Stevenage 0, Swindon Town 2 Walsall 1.
