
# Indian Navy Recruitment: Vacancy for 2700 Sailors on joinindiannavy.gov.in

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:35:00+00:00**

Author: **BS Web Team**

Original: [Business-Standard](https://www.business-standard.com/article/jobs/indian-navy-recruitment-vacancy-for-2700-sailors-on-joinindiannavy-gov-in-119110401197_1.html)

Indian Navy Recruitment 2019: The Indian Navy has released a recruitment notification for a total of 2,700 posts of Navy Sailor for the August 2020 batch on its official website joinindiannavy.gov.in.
Interested and eligible candidates can apply for the Indian Navy AA (Sailor- Artificer Apprentice) and SSR (Sailor- Senior Secondary) vacancies from November 8, 2019 and the last date to submit Indian Navy sailor online form 2019 is November 18, 2019.

        Important dates to remember
      
Start date of application: November 8, 2019
Last date to submit the application: November 18, 2019

        Indian Navy vacancy details
      
Sailor Senior Secondary: 2,200
Sailor Artificer Apprentice: 500

        Salary
      
A stipend of Rs 14,600 per month will be given during the initial training phase. On successfully completing the initial training, the applicants will be put in level 3 of the defence pay matrix of Rs 21,700 to 69,100.

        Qualification
      
For SSR- the candidate should have passed Class 12 with Maths and Physics and at least one of these subjects i.e. chemistry/computer/biology from the recognized board of school education.
For AA- the candidate should have passed Class 12 with at least 60 per cent in aggregate with Maths and Physics.

        Selection process
      
The selection of the candidates will be based on the state-wise merit of the performance in computer-based tests (CBT), subject to qualifying in Pulmonary function tests (PFT) and medical examination.

        How to apply for Indian Navy sailor post:
      

        About Indian Navy
      
The Indian Navy is the naval branch of the Indian Armed Forces. The President of India is the Supreme Commander of the Indian Navy. The Chief of Naval Staff, a four-star admiral, commands the navy. The primary objective of the navy is to safeguard the nation's maritime borders, and in conjunction with other Armed Forces of the union, act to deter or defeat any threats or aggression against the territory, people or maritime interests of India, both in war and peace.
