
# Cold case cops to probe mystery death of Stefan Sutherland after local police slated

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Marcello Mega**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/crime/cold-case-cops-probe-mystery-20784691)

A crack team of detectives will re-investigate the violent death of a man in the wake of a police probe shrouded in controversy.
Six officers will re-examine the case of Stefan Sutherland, who was found dead aged 25 in September 2013.
They will spend several weeks taking a fresh look at the tragedy, which local police insisted was not suspicious despite evidence to the contrary.
The unit paid a preliminary visit to Stefan’s neighbourhood in Caithness yesterday in a welcome development for his parents who have long campaigned for a fresh appraisal of the case.
An initial review of all the evidence will be communicated to a senior officer who will decide whether to mount a murder investigation.
In that eventuality, it’s understood the team, led by Detective Superintendent Graeme Mackie, could potentially be expanded to up to 20 detectives.
They would take statements from as many as 80 witnesses and make door-to-door inquiries in the Lybster area, where Stefan was last seen.
 
This would include people who lived there when Stefan died but have since moved away.
All evidence retained since the time of his death will be re-examined, along with pathology reports and post-mortem photographs.
Stefan’s family has told Police Scotland they would support the exhumation of his body so that his injuries could be reassessed by an experienced forensic pathologist.
The first stage of the police operation has been described to Stefan’s family as “an investigation into the circumstances of his death”.
Following a meeting at their home this week with Det Supt Mackie and Assistant Chief Constable John Hawkins, the family was left with some hope they would finally receive answers.
 
Stefan’s family – along with several locals – has maintained he did not take his own life but was murdered by a man who has been named to police.
Last month, we revealed that following a series of Record articles, police had finally bowed to pressure to re-examine the case originally investigated by the then Northern Constabulary.
Stefan’s dad Sandy said: “We have heard a load of rubbish from the police for more than six years, so they understand that we don’t really trust them. In the end, we’ll have to judge them on what they do, not what they say. But it seems more hopeful.”
Stefan was last seen in Lybster on September 6, 2013. Hs body washed up a few miles away at Occumster Bay, near the family home, on September 17.
Police decided his death had been suicide or accidental, ignoring evidence offered by his injuries and by numerous witnesses that pointed to murder. Stefan was last seen going into the home where drugs were sold and no independent witness saw him leave.
His body showed signs of a severe beating. The joints of his fingers had been pulled apart and his front teeth were smashed.
 
The post-mortem examination showed he had not drowned and his body was badly decomposed, indicating he had not gone into the sea alive.
DNA tests on trace blood in the living room of the property he visited proved it was Stefan’s, yet police maintained there was no evidence of foul play.
A succession of people who knew Stefan and gave witness statements to the police have told the Record they were bullied by cops who insisted his death was suicide and forced to sign concocted statements.
Eighteen of them later demanded the return of their statements so they could be altered to reflect the truth – but to date they remain unchanged.
Sandy added last night: “There are people who should have been asked searching questions and had alibis challenged and checked out.
“None of that happened then, but we’re hoping it will now and that our hopes of seeing justice for Stefan have not been in vain.”
ACC Hawkins said: “I was pleased to have met with the family and to have reassured them that the ongoing review will look at all aspects of Stefan’s death.”
