
# SJ Group mention BTS Jimin's impact on the fashion industry

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:30:00+00:00**

Author: **parkhaneul1013**

Original: [allkpop](https://www.allkpop.com/article/2019/11/sj-group-mention-bts-jimins-impact-on-the-fashion-industry)

Recently BTS Jimin's name has become a hot topic among fans around the world. SJ Group, a well known domestic group with exclusive right to import global brands mentioned BTS Jimin impact and effect on the fashion industry during their business meeting at Yeoui-do on October 25th. SJ Group is a well known as a domestic group with an exclusive right to import global brands such as KANGOL and HELENKAMINSKI (brand for headwear). SJ Group is also known as the group that brought KANGOL hats to South Korea back in 2008, especially after the Beatles were seen wearing KANGOL hats. 
SJ Group CEO, Lee Joo-yeong, said during the meeting, "Our company is famous for brands that artist love even if it's not sponsored. Recently, BTS Jimin becomes a hot topic for wearing KANGOL hat often."
This, however, is not the first time BTS Jimin gained worldwide attention for being recognized as a fashion icon. BTS Jimin previously gained spotlight when he snatched several spots in international fashion industry outlets such as the Business of Fashion's "Class of 2019 (#BoF500)", GQ Magazine's "Top 10 Best-Dressed Men of the week" and was voted as the 2019 Most Fashionable idol in King Choice. All of this recognition and acknowledgment really show the strength of the global idol in the fashion industry. Any brand for clothes, sunglasses, and every other items BTS Jimin's wear or use and any merchandise that are related to him were recorded to sold out immediately. 
