
# Grace Millane trial: Man accused of killing Brit claims she died from 'rough sex by accident'

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:03:24+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/grace-millane-trial-man-accused-20821412)

The alleged killer of British backpacker Grace Millane claims she died 'from rough sex by accident'.
Grace, 22,  was travelling after finishing university but went missing in New Zealand, on December 1 last year.
Police found her body inside a suitcase on December 9 in bushland just a few metres from a scenic drive in Auckland's Waitakere Ranges.
Earrings and a small metal tag inscribed with the word "freedom" were found inside the suitcase.
The accused, a 27-year-old man who cannot be named for legal reasons, appeared in an Auckland court today for the first day of his trial for murder, which he denies.
He met Grace on the evening of December 1 through the dating app Tinder.
The suspect's lawyer, Ian Brookie, told the jury Grace's death was 'an accident'.
"Ms Millane died as a result of what they consensually engaged in," Mr Brookie said.
"An act designed to enhance their sexual pleasure that went wrong and she died as a result."
CCTV had filmed the pair kissing before heading to the man's hotel apartment, prosecutor Robin McCoubrey told the court.
Mr McCoubrey said the defendant lied to police about what occurred when he was first interviewed, telling them he had simply met Grace "for a drink and then parted company".
But he later told them they had engaged in rough sexual intercourse involving biting and hitting, Mr McCoubrey said.
Mr McCoubrey said the crown's case was that Grace died in the accused's apartment from sustained pressure to the neck.
Her body also showed bruising to her chest and upper arms, the court heard.
"Only two people know what happened in that room," Mr McCoubrey told the court.
"One of them can't tell us and the other one hasn't told the truth about what happened."
The prosecutor said that in the hours after Gracedied, the defendant engaged in a number of internet searches, including "the hottest fire".
"It's plain that Ms Millane is dead at that point," Mr McCoubrey said.
"What (the defendant) is trying to do is find a place to dispose of her body."
"He wasn't distressed or concerned by her death," Mr McCoubrey said, adding that the defendant then began searching pornographic websites.
The Crown alleged the defendant broke off his internet search to take seven intimate photos of Grace's body.
The defendant then resumed searching pornographic websites, before searching for "large bags near me" and "rigor mortis".
Security footage showed the defendant later purchased a suitcase from a business in the city centre.
"He contorted Ms Millane's body into that suitcase," Mr McCoubrey said.
Evidence from the father of the victim, David Millane, was read to the court.
He said "Gracie" was the youngest of three children and was close with her family.
She had travelled to New Zealand from Peru as part of a year-long trip after finishing university.
She had previously had boyfriends and had exhibited no mental or physical health problems, Mr Millane added.
The defendant cried and blew his nose loudly as the father's evidence read to the court.
Detective Evan England then began delivering his evidence, but proceedings were stopped after the defendant informed his counsel he was feeling unwell.
A short recess was taken and the court cleared while the defence team went to speak with the accused.
The defendant appeared pale as he returned to the courtroom and the session continued.
Grace's parents, David and Gillian, attended court for the first day of the trial which is expected to last five weeks.
The killing shocked New Zealand, where serious crime was once considered relatively rare and its cities and countryside considered safe.
It also sparked intense debate about New Zealand's record on violence against women.
Thousands of people held candlelight vigils after Millane's death in a national outpouring of grief.
Previously, Prime Minister Jacinda Arden held back tears as she apologised to Grace's family on behalf of New Zealand.
The trial continues.
