
# Former West Brom favourite linked with Championship return

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:53:35+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/stoke-city-next-manager-mcinnes-17214787)

Stoke City want to lure Derek McInnes from Aberdeen according to reports.
The Potters are on the hunt for a new manager after sacking Nathan Jones on Friday and have already been turned down by Preston North End boss Alex Neil.
Now the Daily Record report McInnes, who was linked with the West Bromwich Albion job in the summer, is on the shortlist of candidates Stoke owner Peter Coates wants to replace Jones.
McInnes was wanted by the Baggies earlier on this year when Darren Moore was sacked.
The Hawthorns hierarchy placed Jimmy Shan in caretaker charge until the summer before appointing Slaven Bilic, the Croatian taking his new side two points clear at the top of the Championship after 15 matches.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
It is said Dons chairman Stewart Milne is braced for an official approach for McInnes, with Northern Ireland boss Michael O’Neill and Scotland chief Steve Clarke also linked with the role.
McInnes was linked with the Sunderland job last year before Jack Ross was appointed, his series of successive second-placed finishes with Aberdeen in the Scottish Premiership seeing him touted with a move south of the Scottish border.
