
# Can Eating Too Much on Thanksgiving Hurt Your Sex Drive?

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Danielle Page**

Original: [AskMen](https://www.askmen.com/fitness/nutrition/can-eating-too-much-on-thanksgiving-hurt-your-sex-drive.html)

The average American consumes over 3,000 calories during a Thanksgiving meal. To put that into context for folks who aren't beholden to counting calories, that's about 500 to 1,000 calories more than what the average individual should be consuming on the daily.
As long as you're back to your normal eating routine after inhaling all that Thanksgiving goodness, you're not doing any lasting harm to your body by indulging in that one calorie laden meal per year. However, if you're hoping to have your turkey and get laid too, you're up against a pretty big challenge to overcome.
RELATED: How Aphrodisiacs Can Improve Your Sex Life
Here's a look at what a large Thanksgiving meal can do to your libido, along with a few ways to counteract it.
When it comes to foods that have a negative impact on your sex drive, that second or third helping of turkey isn’t doing you any favors.
"We typically eat plenty of protein on Thanksgiving in the form of turkey meat," says Jamie Bacharach, an acupuncturist and health coach specializing in sexual health and erectile dysfunction. "Protein also plays a part in lowering or inhibiting sex drive – the saturated fat found in turkey meat can cause temporary blockage to the arteries, which in turn will reduce blood flow to the genitals, thus in effect blocking the libido."
All those rich desserts aren’t helping either. Too many pieces of pie, cookies and cakes can potentially throw a wrench in your Thanksgiving romp plans, too. "Excessive consumption of sugar is known to trigger insulin resistance and in turn, lower testosterone levels," says Bacharach. "This inhibits the male sex drive directly and is often a byproduct of a large Thanksgiving meal."
No matter how much you stack on your plate,the overall calorie consumption is going to be problematic for your post-turkey bedroom agenda. "Bloating, feelings of fullness and a direct digestive response – indigestion or gas – can all lead to feelings that run counter to a desire for sex or sexual encounters," notes Bacharach. "After we eat a large Thanksgiving meal, we're typically in the mood to wear something comfortable and pass out on the couch – not take our clothes off and get ready for some steamy sex."
If you have your heart set on doing the deed without taking anything off your plate, it can be done with some planning. Here are a few tips to consider if you're looking to get lucky this turkey day:
Not eating the entire day leading up to your Thanksgiving meal might seem like a smart strategy, but it can actually have the opposite effect.
"Eat whatever you had planned on eating but over a greater window of time,” says Bacharach. “This way your body can have the time it needs to deliberately and methodically react and break down the food it's getting. If you eat too much too quickly, your body will become overloaded and more likely than not crash in some capacity. This will leave your sex drive in a sorry state – eat slowly and carefully, ideally over the course of 4-8 hours as opposed to 1-3."
It's tempting to park yourself on the couch after you’re finished eating, but pushing yourself to be active once the fork is down can help snap yourself into a sex-ready place physically.
"After dinner is finished, go for a walk or a run in order to get your blood pumping and to kick your metabolism into gear," recommends Bacharach. "By signaling to your body that it's time to burn calories to restore energy lost due to your movement, you'll feel lighter as your body works off the food it was just stuffed with and your sex drive will restore."
"Alcohol can not only contribute to bloat, it can compound all of the negative effects felt when you consume too much sugar, carbohydrates and calories," notes Bacharach. "Try to keep your Thanksgiving dinner alcohol-free in order to give yourself a better chance to be fit and ready for sex by its conclusion."
If you're still feeling the effects of Thanksgiving dinner, resident Astroglide sexologist Dr. Jess O'Reilly says there are plenty of ways to get your partner off (and vice versa) without having to perform a big gymnastic feat in the bedroom.
"You can lie on your back next to your partner and barely move a muscle beyond your hand and forearm," she says. "Slather your fingers in your favorite lube and place your palm on their pubic mound. Bend your slippery fingers down over their lips/vulva and slide up and down to create a pocket."
Your partner can return the favor with the "twisted goddess," a move that only requires your two hands (and more lube than you think). "Wrap hands around the shaft and stroke up and down with strong pressure at the base and a gentle twist over the head," she adds.

        You Might Also Dig:
      
News Career & Money Dating Entertainment Food & Booze Health Home & Auto Style & Fashion Tech Black Friday Sex Sex Positions Sex Tips Sex Toys & Games Sexual Experiences Sexual Health Dating Dating Advice Dating Experiences Best Online Dating Sites Relationship Advice Grooming Fragrances Hair Shaving Skin Style Accessories Fashion Advice Fashion Trends Shopping Underwear Watches Fitness Health Mental Health Nutrition Weight Loss Workout Gear Hobby Home Tech Toys Travel Work Man Skills Auto Essential Home Random Survival Deals Health Deals Home Deals Style Deals Tech Deals Career & Money Career Money Productivity Self-Improvement Home & Auto Auto Home Parenting Pets Tools Gifting Anniversaries Birthdays Father's Day Holidays Mother's Day Valentine's Day Weddings Reviews Best Subscription Services Classes Meal Kits Products Food & Booze Booze Food Entertainment Celebs Guy Perspective Media Music Sports Travel TV & Film AskMen on Facebook AskMen on Twitter AskMen on Flipboard AskMen on Google News Top Stories 49 Unique Birthday Gifts for Him Best Back Exercises With Dumbbells Best Electric Shavers Best Free Dating Sites Best Sex Positions to Improve Your Sex Life The Best Sex Toys for Couples © 2019 Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AskMen, Become a Better Man, Big Shiny Things, Mantics and guyQ are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. Media Kit Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Statement IGN PCMag Offers.com Geek ExtremeTech Toolbox SpeedTest
