
# Adam Gilchrist predicts semifinalists for WT20; names favourites

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:34:38+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/adam-gilchrist-predicts-semifinalists-for-wt-20-names-favourites?utm_medium=rss)


        Former Australia cricketer Adam Gilchrist has named his favourites for winning the T20 World Cup and also has predicted the final four of the tournament. This ICC event is set to hit Australian shores from October 18 to November 15, 2020, and promises to be a spectacular tournament.
      
Australian legend Adam Gilchrist is extremely excited about the build-up to the T20 World Cup in Australia next year gaining momentum and teams preparing accordingly for giving their best and winning the tournament. He believes that Australia have a great chance to win the World Cup as it is in their home conditions and also it will be special as this is the only trophy missing in their illustrious trophy cabinet. Gilchrist has names India, Australia, England, and New Zealand as the possible four semifinalists of the T20 World Cup, the same that were the semifinalists of the 50-over World Cup in England this year. This is because he believes these are the teams that are in great shape and especially have a good core of players that are all match-winners on their given day.
"Probably they (India) will be featuring in semi-finals and the finals. I can't predict who is going to win but I suspect that the usual suspects like India, England, Australia, and New Zealand will probably make a long way, semi-finals of course," Gilchrist said at a promotional event in Mumbai.
Gilchrist has not ruled out the possibility of Pakistan springing a surprise and gaining on of the semifinal spots as they are the number one T20 I team currently. Having sacked Sarfaraz Ahmed from the captaincy as well s the team and having handed young Babar Azam the reigns of captaincy, Pakistan T20 team are in a state of transition but Gilchrist believes that their pace attack can cause trouble to any batting order on their day and thus he feels Pakistan is one of the contenders to probably cause an upset and reach the semifinals.
"Pakistan are the number one ranked team in the format, so you cannot rule them out. But T20 cricket is a bit of lottery so it is hard to predict the winner until the final runs are scored or wickets are taken," he added.
Thus according to Gilchrist, India are one of the favorites to win the tournament due to the likes of superstars like Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma, Jasprit Bumrah, etc. But with their recent defeat to Bangladesh, the Indian team has shown signs of inconsistency and weakness in the absence of their key players and they will have to fix things quickly if they really aspire to win the T20 World Cup.
