
# Living With the Kincade Fire

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:47:47+00:00**

Author: **Photographs by Philip Montgomery**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/04/opinion/california-wildfires.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

Members of a Hotshot crew with the U.S. Forest Service worked to control a burn on the eastern edge of the Kincade Fire on Wednesday.Credit...
Photographs by Philip Montgomery
Text by Clinton Cargill
From the safe remove of a faraway place, the devastation and fear that have accompanied California’s wildfires can be hard to grasp. The numbers — over a dozen separate fires across the state and hundreds of thousands of people displaced — are shocking, and the tales of flames and smoke engulfing neighborhood hillsides are disturbing. But what is the new normal in California has little in common with the reality of many of our everyday lives. And so we go on. We think of friends and relatives, maybe send a text to touch base with them. Then refill our coffee cups. Read our email. Click through to the next article.
From a safe remove, it’s easy to forget that this kind of disaster has sounds, smells. Acrid smoke does not flood our nostrils and make our eyes water. We haven’t experienced the screeching of wind in a rest stop parking lot while calling to find a hotel that can accommodate a family of six. The fires have upended people’s lives in ways both monumental and minute. “How many days should we pack for?” “Where will we stay?” “Will the winds die down tonight?” “Will our business be lost?”
Two years ago, Walter Batt, a truck driver in Healdsburg, watched the glow of the Tubbs fire as it lit up the view across the valley. And again last week, he saw a fire approaching. “I watched it come down Geysers Road and it looked like a dragon breathing fire. That’s the only way I can describe it. I didn’t think that the firemen were going to be able to stop it.”
He and his family returned home Thursday night, after being evacuated five times from different locations in the past week. Smoke still hangs thick in the air around their house.
By Monday, the Kincade fire was 80 percent contained. Evacuation orders have been lifted and power returned to communities like Healdsburg, Geyserville and Windsor. Residents are returning to the normality of their own lives.
This is perhaps the most striking part of the story: Disaster and normality now live side by side in these communities. People are getting better at living this way.
“Two years ago taught us a big lesson here,” said Cleo Goss, a captain in the San Jose Fire Department who was called was called as part of a mutual assistance program to help with operations for the Kincade fire.
“When the fire started, folks were warned and they didn’t leave quite as quickly,” he said. “And the first responders that initially arrived on scene were working really hard to get folks out of the area, which limited the resources for fighting the fire.”
Lessons have been learned. From the Tubbs fire in 2017. From Paradise. People respond quickly to evacuation orders, which in turn means firefighters can focus resources on containment instead of rescue.
“Most of the folks here understand that,” Mr. Goss said, “because they’ve already had to live it, unfortunately.”

        Continue reading the main story
      
