
# Tyson Fury ‘Ready’ To Enter UFC After Talks With Conor McGregor

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:12:00+00:00**

Author: **Emily Brown**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/sport/tyson-fury-ready-to-enter-ufc-after-talks-with-conor-mcgregor/)


        Tyson Fury has made it clear he’s serious about entering the world of UFC, as he revealed talks with Conor McGregor have already taken place. 
      
Advertisements
The average person might think getting hit over and over again until the point of exhaustion is a pretty similar experience no matter where you are, but Fury is obviously keen to take on opponents in a number of different settings.
Having already established himself as a professional boxer, the 31-year-old decided to give himself a taste of the wrestling life as he made his WWE debut on Thursday. He quickly succeeded in that arena with a victory over Braun Strowman, and now he’s set his sights on conquering another form of fighting.
Advertisements
Specifically, he wants to become the Ultimate Fighting Champion. His desire to take on the new sport is reminiscent of Pete the millionaire from Friends, if you ask me.

        He teased his career move to Sky Sports last week, saying:
      
To be clear, Fury was talking about himself in the third person – potentially to make sure there was no confusion as to exactly who would be making their MMA debut this year.
In case you didn’t catch it, though, Tyson Fury said Tyson Fury would be making his MMA debut this year.
Advertisements
