
# Granit Xhaka won’t play against Wolves, declares Unai Emery

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:28:14+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/02/granit-xhaka-wont-play-against-wolves-declares-unai-emery?utm_medium=rss)


        Arsenal boss Granit Xhaka has announced that captain Granit Xhaka will not feature against Wolverhampton Wanderers as the Gunners prepare to host Wolves on Sunday. The manager went onto say that it wasn’t a punishment for Xhaka’s gestures but a much-needed break for Xhaka to cool off his mind.
      
According to English outlet BBC, Granit Xhaka is set to be excluded from Arsenal’s squad by Unai Emery for the clash against Wolverhampton Wanderers on Sunday. The Swiss midfielder reacted angrily to being booed by home fans when substituted in last Sunday's draw with Crystal Palace. After the incident, Xhaka posted a statement on Instagram saying that he had reached the “boiling point” after threats were made to his wife and daughter.
“We need time to recover the normality in him and for us. He said sorry, he gave an apology to the supporters and now is time to focus on the match. It's not in my mind that he will play tomorrow. I am thinking tomorrow he is not going to play. Now we need to focus 100% on the match. Now we are going to train and at the moment he is not in my mind,” said Emery to the BBC.
The former Sevilla manager was also asked if Xhaka will remain the captain of the club to which Emery said the midfielder will remain the captain as of now. The Switzerland international was recently elected as the captain by the squad after Laurent Koscielny’s departure. Xhaka has started all but one of Arsenal's league games this season. 
The Spanish boss asked the 27 year old to apologize for his behaviour but instead, Xhaka posted a message that he had reached the limit and that was the reason he reacted in a disrespectful manner and is deeply hurt. The former Basel man joined Arsenal in 2016 from Borussia Monchengladbach and has made 144 appearances for the North London club since then.
