
# Who Are The 10 Foreign Coaches In Absa Prem?

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/soccer-laduma-takes-a-look-at-all-the-foreigners-in-the-absa-premiership/666960)

Cape Town City’s new head coach becomes the 10th foreign and currently the only Dutch coach in the Absa Premiership.
The Mother City-based club unveiled Jan Olde Riekerink as their new head coach yesterday following Benni McCarthy’s departure, where he is now one of five European coaches and one of 10 foreigners.
Here are the rest:
Ernst Middendorp (German) – Kaizer Chiefs
The German tactician has coached in Germany, Ghana, Iran, China, Cyprus and Thailand.
In South Africa, Middendorp lifted the Absa Cup and the Supa8 trophy with Kaizer Chiefs in 2006.
He's also won the Ghana FA Cup during his time with Asante Kotoko.
In addition, Middendorp is well known for saving teams from relegation. He helped both Free State Stars and Maritzburg United move away from the danger zone back in the 2015/16 season.
In Europe, Middendorp took DSC Armenia Bielefeld from the third division to their first Bundesliga and upon his return to the clubs some years later - he saved them from relegation.

        
          Read more: Chiefs, Rulani, His Grandma: 5 Unforgettable Benni Quotes
        
      
Luc Eymael (Belgian) – Black Leopards
Eymael has coached in Belgium, DR Congo, Gabon, Algeria, Kenya, Rwanda, Tunisia, Oman, Sudan and Egypt.
In Mzansi Eymael led Free State Stars to their first Nedbank Cup trophy win in 2018.

        Jozef Vukusic (Slovakian) – AmaZulu FC 
      
The Slovakian head coach has coached in Germany, Slovakia, Libya, Kazakhstan and Latvia.
Vukusic has won the Slovak Cup with FC VSS Kosice in 2008/09 and the Latvian Championship with Spartaks Jurmala in 2017/18.

        Kaitano Tembo (Zimbabwean) – SuperSport United
      
Tembo has spent his entire professional coaching career in South Africa with SuperSport United.
(Tembo won the 2019 MTN8 trophy as head coach of SuperSport in South Africa.)

        Others:
      
Zlatko Krmpotic (Serbian) – Polokwane City
Lehlohonolo Seema (Lesotho) – Bloemfontein Celtic
Steve Barker (Lesotho) – Stellenbosch FC
Norma Mapeza (Zimbabwean) – Chippa United
Wedson Nyirenda (Zambian) – Baroka FC  

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
