
# As Trade War Persists, Companies Contemplate Effective Responses

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Crowe Contributor**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/crowe/2019/11/01/as-trade-war-persists-companies-contemplate-effective-responses/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2789714351&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

By By Russ BanhamThe U.S.-China global trade conflict has become an unpredictable chess match. And for the many large, mid-sized and small companies dependent on foreign trade to manufacture finished goods and market products and services abroad, the uncertain trade environment compromises their ability to make effective business decisions—from setting profit-maximizing prices to the optimal geographic location of manufacturing facilities.
“Companies are in a situation where a resolution seems forthcoming, which is subsequently followed by a declaration of `We’ll see,’” says Pete Mento, managing director in tax services at the international public accounting, consulting and technology firm Crowe. “That creates a great deal of uncertainty.” And with another escalating trade war shaping up between the U.S. and European Union—each other’s largest trading partners—the uncertainties are bound to compound. 
Depending on the ebb and flow of trade tensions, the U.S. sectors most vulnerable to the protracted trade conflict are the automotive, technology and agriculture industries, says Mento. In 2018, for example, in retaliation against planned U.S. tariffs, China increased its tariffs on American-made cars entering the country from 15% to 40%, only to suspend the tariff increase as a goodwill gesture shortly thereafter. “In a trade war,” says Mento, “tariffs are weaponized for political gain.”
Some countries are benefiting from the topsy-turvy trade imbroglio, including Mexico, India, Indonesia and Thailand. These countries are experiencing a temporary boost in production, according to Mento, as U.S. or Chinese companies move sales operations and manufacturing facilities to their shores.
But China and the U.S. are absorbing the impact of these decisions. “American exporters into China lose out, as do Chinese companies that have to find other markets around the world to sell their goods,” Mento says. He adds that U.S. companies compelled to shift production elsewhere “wonder if they can get the same quality of manufactured goods.” 
These uncertain outcomes can be mitigated through a combination of smart planning and preparation, Mento says. 
For companies caught in the middle of the U.S.-China trade conflict, procrastinating in hopes of better times ahead is unadvisable, says Mento. 
Businesses can execute several smart tactics as various trade negotiations proceed, snail-like.

        1) Is your company eligible for exemptions?
      
Mento recommends that American companies dependent on Chinese imports consider applying for an exclusion exempting these goods from additional tariffs with the U.S. Trade Representative.
As of October, more than 2,500 companies had filed for USTR exemptions. To learn the procedures to request the product exclusions, businesses can refer to the Federal Register published by the USTR in June. “You may be able to lower the value of the imports through the USTR’s legal processes and valuation methodologies,” Mento says.

        2) Can your company relocate production? 
      
If trade tensions rise, companies can also consider relocating production or manufacturing.
“If the trade conflict persists or intensifies, domestic manufacturing and moving production to other countries might prove to be the better decision,” says Mento. “Several automotive companies have already moved [their production] from China to India. Other businesses might find value in the same rationale … Having a Plan B or Plan C in place is always a good thing.”

        3) Is your company leveraging trade management software?
      
Mento adds that U.S. companies should consider the use of sophisticated trade management software solutions providing real-time analysis on the total cost of doing business in multiple countries. 
“These software resources, which can be integrated with the backbone enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, are designed to help companies understand trade agreements holistically, insofar as the ‘landed costs’—the total price of a product, which includes tariffs, duties, value-added taxes, customs, currency conversion, insurance and other expenses,” Mento says.
Waiting for one side of the dispute or the other to shout “checkmate” is not a solution. One company’s complacency is merely another company’s opportunity to increase its market share. While the winner in the seemingly interminable trade conflict is yet to be declared, American companies that do something instead of nothing will be better off for it in the long run, says Mento. 

        
          Russ Banham is a Pulitzer-nominated financial journalist and best-selling author.
        
      
