
# The 5 best Amazon deals you can get this Thursday

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:34:12+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Campbell, Reviewed.com**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/5-best-amazon-deals-thursday-152852657.html)


        — Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need. If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue. However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Today’s newsroom and any business incentives.
      
I know it may seem a little early to start thinking about holiday shopping, but if you see something on sale that you were planning to get for someone anyway—you get it. This Thursday, there are so many products on sale at Amazon that would make perfect gifts like Sony noise-canceling headphones, digital meat thermometers, and personal blenders. Not only have we tested these items for ourselves, but we've also price tracked them, so you know you're getting a good deal.
When you need some peace and quiet from your relatives this holiday season, just put on a great pair of noise-canceling headphones to zone them out. We named the Sony WH-1000XM3 headphones as the best noise-canceling headphones we've ever tested, for both comfort and noise-canceling capabilities. Right now, you can get them for $80off at Drop, which marks its lowest price by $20.
They earned the top spot because not only do they block out various sounds, but you can actually customize how much or how little you want to hear using an intuitive app and you can pause your music with just a tap of an earphone. Plus, they make a great gift for any playlist perfectionist or podcast lover.

        
          Get the Sony WH-1000XM3 Wireless Headphones for $278 (Save $71.99)
        
      
This Thanksgiving, you don't want to end up with another dry bird. Instead, save your turkey by using a meat thermometer to make sure its just right. This one from Habor is the best affordable meat thermometer we've ever tested because it worked just as well as some of the more expensive models at a fraction of the cost. Right now, it's back down to its lowest price ever, making it even more affordable.

        
          Get the Habor Instant Read Thermometer for $8.49 (Save $2.50)
        
      
If you need to blend smoothies or make creamy dressings and sauces, you're going to want a powerful blender. But if you have limited counter space, you might want to go with a small personal blender. The Ninja Fit is our favorite personal blender because it's easy to store away, has to-go lids for sipping on-the-go, and was easy to clean up. Right now, you can get it for its lowest price. Plus, it makes a great gift for anyone's who is obsessed with smoothies.

        
          Get the Ninja Personal Blender for $39.99 (Save $10)
        
      
When you're playing "All I Want For Christmas Is You" on repeat this holiday season, you going to want to hear it on one of the best speakers money can buy. After testing the best portable speakers on the market, the Bose SoundLink Revolve came in as our runner up. Not only does it have a stylish conical shape, but it was also able to disperse quality sound through a room and had incredible bass and mid tones. It's typically pretty pricey, but you can get it for $80 off right now.

        
          Get the Bose SoundLink Revolve Portable Speaker for $119 (Save $80)
        
      
Now, you probably don't think too much about the aesthetics of your kitchen trash can, but having a good one is important. You want one that is easy to open while still keeping the dank garbage smells closed off from the rest of the room. This one from simplehuman fits the bill and is the best affordable kitchen trash can we've ever tested. Although it's made of plastic, we found that it's quite sturdy and was the perfect size to fit in odd kitchen spaces. Right now, you can get it for its lowest price.

        
          Get the Simplehuman 40L Slim Step Can for $31.99 (Save $8)
        
      

        The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for the latest deals, reviews, and more.
      

        Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.
      
Email Address

        This article originally appeared on Reviewed.com: Best Amazon deals: Sony headphones, meat thermometers, and blenders
      
