
# How to use Live Captions on the Pixel 4

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:00:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/how-use-live-captions-pixel-4?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Ara Wagoner / Android Central
      
I'll admit, when they were showing off the Pixel 4's many features at the Made by Google event in October, one of the features that most intrigued me was Live Captions. The live transcriptions in the new Voice Recorder app shown off on stage are amazing, but that requires you to be actively recording. Live Captions, on the other hand, allows you to caption all the videos you watch, even video calls that would otherwise never be captioned. Best of all, it's easy for everyone to turn on Live Captions in just two taps!
Live Captions will activate and begin filtering your phone's audio through its speech recognition algorithms. You might experience a slight skip in the video or podcast audio you're listening to — especially if you've been listening through Bluetooth — and the Live Caption pop-up will start showing up as the app recognizes them. Captions can be delayed 5-10 seconds after the initial words were spoken.
When you want to turn Live Captions off again, you can tap the toggle from the volume slider or you can dismiss it from the persistent notification that stays in the notification shade so long as Live Caption is turned on.
If you don't want to mess with the volume settings to turn on Live Captions, good news! You can add it to Quick Settings so that it's just a swipe away.
Now you can toggle Live Captions off without having to move your volume away from its perfect level. Simply swipe down twice from the top of your screen and tap the toggle — or tap it from the notification shade if you put it in the first six icons, the most important of your Quick Settings.
There aren't that many granular controls for Lice Captions, at least not yet, but there are a couple of small options you can toggle on or off at your leisure. These options are easier to access when Live Captions are toggled on:
If captions aren't popping up — or are wildly inaccurate — remember that Live Captions is still in its early days and that it has limitations:
This accessibility option can be awesome for all users.
The Pixel 4 has a cool new looks and some nifty new features. One of the most low-key but high-impact features isn't Motion Sense or that new 90Hz screen: it's the ability to caption almost any audio content from any source using on-device Live Captions.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        No matter your taste, your phone needs a case Protect your Pixel 4 with these great cases! The Google Pixel 4 is an amazing phone sandwiched between a glass front and glass back. As pretty as that glass back is, you should cover it with a case to keep it pretty as long as possible.
      

        XLlent cases for an XL phone Your Google Pixel 4 XL deserves only the best cases Google's newest flagship is a big glass slab of innovation and power, but it's not going to mean much if you drop it and shatter the screen. Protect your investment with a Pixel 4 XL case.
      

        buyers guide These are the best heavy duty cases for the Pixel 4 Don't let your brand new Pixel 4 get banged up by a nasty drop. Keep it safe from day one on with a heavy duty case.
      
