
# The Best Look Yet At The New Ford Bronco

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bryan Campbell**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bryancampbell/2019/11/05/the-best-look-yet-at-the-new-ford-bronco/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

The 2020 Ford Bronco is, without a doubt, one of the most anticipated automotive reveals in recent years. Details on the Bronco’s technical specs have sporadically trickled out over the past few months, but if there’s one thing that’s kept everyone guessing it’s the actual design. That was until Ford pulled the covers off its 2019 Baja 1000 race truck, the Bronco R, and revealed what the returning icon will actually look like.There are some sizeable caveats, of course. Being a purpose-built Baja 1000 race truck, the Bronco R will have close to nothing mechanically in common with the production version of the 2020 Bronco. Ford says it will have a similar powertrain, but don’t count on seeing the R’s 17-inch beadlock aluminum wheels wrapped in massive 37-inch BFGoodrich tires and 18-inches worth of suspension travel on the factory-built Bronco next year when it’s officially unveiled. 
The body of the Bronco R, on the other hand, is the best look a yet at the design to come. According to Ford the overall shape and design lines on the Bronco R align with what can be expected from the two-door Bronco. There will be a four-door model, but it’s not too difficult to imagine the same silhouette with more space between the front and rear wheels to make room for the extra doors.
How the Bronco performs off-road is, understandably, an intensely important aspect of the 4x4’s return. With a base architecture shared with the Ford Ranger pickup, the Bronco might not have the body-on-frame construction die-hard Bronco fans would love to have, but it’s still a sturdy and capable platform nonetheless. Hopefully, Ford looks to the Bronco R for inspiration for the inevitable performance version of the production Bronco. The light bars and steel skid plates would be a good place to start. 
Design and aesthetics are right behind the performance on the list of critical factors for the Bronco’s return. Just ask anyone on the design teams for the Land Rover Defender and Toyota Supra. The Toyota received heaps of praise for its handling and it’s tough to imagine the Defender moving backward when it comes to off-road handling, but neither received the warmest of receptions when they were revealed. Sadly, if the look of the truck isn’t spot-on the Bronco’s comeback will already start on the backfoot, regardless of off-road capabilities. 
Balancing heritage, classic looks while at the same time bringing the household name into the modern era is a tough act. Although the Bronco R is just a hint at what the 2020 Bronco will look like, it seems like Ford finally pulled it together for the retro-modern truck we all wanted.
