
# Main cast member of The Crown seasons 1 and 2 returns for new episode

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/main-cast-member-crown-seasons-20758273)

A major player from the first two seasons of The Crown appears in the third season.
John Lithgow reprises his role as former Prime Minister and war icon Sir Winston Churchill for the opening episode of the Netflix drama's third season.
The episode, entitled Olding, explores The Queen (Olivia Colman) getting adjusted to a new PM in the form of Labour reformer Harold Wilson (Jason Watkins).
However, as the country and the Queen adjust to this change, she must also say goodbye to her first Prime Minister and mentor, Sir Winston Churchill, as he passes away.
Lithgow is the only main cast member from the first two seasons of The Crown to return for scenes in the new season, however, supporting player Pip Torrens does appear in a flashback scene as steely advisor Sir Andrew "Tommy" Lascelles.
 
Previous leading players Claire Foy and Matt Smith also appear in photographs in the new episodes.
In addition to portraying Harold Wilson, the new episodes will also show actor Michael Moloney as Prime Minister Edward Heath, who served as a Conservative Prime Minister between Wilson's terms as PM.
Gillian Anderson is set to portray Heath's successor as leader of the Conservative Party and eventual Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, in the fourth season of the drama which is due to be released on Netflix in 2020.
How will the Queen take to these politicians in the show?

        The Crown season 3 is released on Netflix on November 17, 2019.
      

        
          Are you pleased to see John Lithgow back as Winston Churchill? Let us know in the comments below.
        
      
