
# Braid: Senators' group hopes to restore regional balance in the upper house

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:42:57+00:00**

Author: **Don Braid, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/columnists/braid-conservatives-are-still-losing-the-election-every-day)

The Trudeau Liberals didn’t quite win the federal election. But they’re sure winning the post-election.
The Conservatives appear to be fragmenting by the day as they sink into hand-wringing over Andrew Scheer’s leadership.
There’s a predictable media frenzy over this, but no questioning whatever of Justin Trudeau’s leadership, although he’s the guy who lost his majority.
This diminishing of the Conservatives, just before the new Parliament meets, is ominous for the economic interests of the provinces that heavily backed the party.
Many people in Alberta and Saskatchewan voted Conservative not just because it’s traditional, but because they felt the need for protection.
Yes, literally, protection from a Liberal crew whose policies and attitudes inflicted major economic damage in the last term.
The divisive fluttering among Conservatives will embolden Trudeau to strike deals with the left-wing opposition, especially the NDP, just as his father did when he was reduced to a minority in 1972.
He’s already promising a strong green tilt to policy. What legislation that will produce we don’t know.
Hopefully, it will be useful climate change action that works in co-operation with the oil and gas industry.
But remember, the last Parliament gave us Bill C-48, the so-called tanker moratorium, and also the much-derided assessment act, Bill C-69.
There is no sign the Liberals will be less aggressive this time. Or that the Conservatives are in any shape to stop them.
Oddly enough, one sign of hope comes from the Senate.
On June 20, the Senate came very close to killing C-48, the act that doesn’t really ban tankers, only the shipment of petroleum products mostly produced in Alberta.
The vote was 49-46 in favour of passage — incredibly close.
A true conscience vote would have killed the bill. But some senators refused to reject it because they believe unelected senators should not overrule elected members of Parliament.
B.C. Sen. Yuen Pau Woo said in debate that it’s the Senate’s job to challenge government bills, but if the government finally says, “this is my preference … we should yield to the view of the government.”
This is a false convention. As other senators noted, the Senate has blocked or defeated dozens of bills in the past.
Sir John A. Macdonald himself said, “There would be no use of an upper house if it did not exercise, when it thought proper, the right of opposing or amending or postponing the legislation of the lower house.”
Otherwise, “it would be of no value whatever.”
On June 20, the Senate truly was of no value whatever.
Many senators voted in favour of a bill they believed was not only scientifically unjustified but genuinely harmful to national unity.
They seemed to care more about hurting the Senate’s reputation than standing up against egregious regional discrimination.
Now, some senators are trying to ensure that the Bill C-48 fiasco doesn’t happen again.
Eleven of them have formed the Canadian Senators Group, an official designation within the confusing array of Senate caucuses.
There are three Albertans: Scott Tannas, the chair; Doug Black; and Elaine McCoy. The rest are from every province but Manitoba and Newfoundland and Labrador.
The main focus, Tannas says, will be on restoring the regional advocacy function that was the entire idea of the original Senate. “That is the main point,” he says.
Black adds that the first duty of a senator is to advocate for the home region, always with the well-being of Canada in mind.
Perhaps most important, Tannas emphasizes that if the Canadian Senators Group decides a bill is bad for the country, they will vote it down no matter what the government wants.
He calls Bill C-48 “the fish that got away. I kind of mourned all summer, wondering gosh, what could I have done?”
The next time the Liberals try to shove through a bill like that, they’ll find out.

        Don Braid’s column appears regularly in the Calgary Herald.
      

        dbraid@postmedia.com
      
Twitter: @DonBraid
Facebook: Don Braid Politics
