
# Jamaica women's football star Tarania Clarke stabbed to death in homeland

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:55:20+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/breaking-jamaica-womens-football-star-20790263)

A member of Jamaica’s Women’s Football Team has been killed in Kingston on Thursday.
Tarania Clarke, who recently featured for the Reggae Girlz during their Olympic qualifiers, was stabbed to death, according to reports in her homeland.
The 20 year-old recently scored own her Jamaica debut, in a 12-1 victory over Cuba on September 30.
Clarke was also captain of Waterhouse FC in Jamaica’s Women’s League.
The incident occurred on Thursday night, after a dispute between Clarke and another woman in Half-Way Tree, St Andrew, police have confirmed.
Police say that the pair had a dispute over a mobile phone, at which point a knife was used to stab Clarke; she was subsequently taken to hospital, where she was pronounced dead.
The other woman has been taken into custody.
Jamaica Football Federation President Michael Ricketts said: “I am deeply saddened. This was a young lady who has shown much potential and was very pleasant, warm and had real potential to make it at the highest level.
“She was very much a part of the Reggae Girlz squad during the recent Olympic qualifiers and did make an impact.
"I offer condolences to the family and friends of young Clarke.”
The JFF also released a statement, declaring: "The Jamaica Football Federation is lost for words in expressing its profoundest sadness at the passing of Tarania... The JFF family expresses condolences to the Waterhouse FC; her family; her friends and her colleagues at the senior team."
Clarke had recently graduated from Excelsior High School and was set to leave her homeland in January, to attend school at Daytona University in Florida, her coach, Xavier Gilbert revealed.
"We were very close," said Gilbert. "She was captain for the last three years and was a wonderful leader, a wonderful person.
“It hurts right now. It’s really sad. She did not deserve this."
