
# Mormon family massacred by gunmen 'linked to El Chapo's feared Sinaloa Cartel'

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:56:20+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/mormon-family-massacred-gunmen-linked-20822900)

Nine members of a Mormon family were likely slaughtered by gunmen linked to the feared Sinaloa drug cartel once run by El Chapo, a prosecutor says.
A violent cartel called Los Jaguares (The Jaguars) operates in the region where three American mothers and six children were massacred in northern Mexico.
Cesar Peniche Espejel said the group - a cell of the ruthless Sinaloa Cartel - is warring with rivals for control of a lucrative drug trafficking corridor into the United States.
It is said the traffickers seized control of its territory during a campaign of violence that began in 2017 and is known to cut off the hands of people who commit minor transgressions.
 
The drug war in parts of western Chihuahua has left more than 60 people dead in less than two years, El Diario de Chihuahua reported.
Newly-formed Los Jaguares may also be involved in smuggling migrants into the US, the attorney general for the border state of Chihuahua added.
Mr Peniche Espejel said the cell operates in the region where the attack happened in broad daylight on Monday afternoon.
The victims were shot at three different locations close to the border of Chihuahua and Sonora states.
Los Jaguares' rivals in the mountainous and forested region include the Line Cartel (La Linea) and the Jalisco Nueva Generacion Cartel, which has been accused of fuelling a surge in violence and murders this year.
While Mr Peniche Espejel said he believes Los Jaguares may be responsible, a US official said earlier that La Linea was under focus, CNN reported.
Mr Peniche Espejel told Imagen Radio radio: "These cartels of Sinaloa, after the arrest of 'El Chapo' have suffered fragmentations.
"They have been growing near the border with the United States and are heavily involved in trafficking of immigrants into the United States and drug trafficking."
Mexican officials said members of the LeBaron Mormon community, which is well-known in the states, may have been mistaken for rival cartel members when they were killed.
However, relatives of the dead said they were likely targeted and the community was recently threatened by cartels over where it can travel.
The victims were named as mum Rhonita Miller, 30, and four of her children - Howard Miller, 12, Krystal Miller, 10, and twins Titus and Tiana Miller, both eight months - mum Dawna Langford, 43, and two of her children - Trevor Langford, 11, and Rogan Langford, two - and mum Christina Johnson, 29, whose seven-month-old baby Faith miraculously survived, said family.
Faith and Mrs Langford's six other children survived the attack, which has been condemned by the Mexican and American presidents, who have been urged to respond with force.
US President Donald Trump offered assistance to Mexico and threatened to "wage war" against drug cartels, but his counterpart, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, rejected outside intervention.
Los Jaguares is headed by crime boss Francisco "El Jaguar" Arvizu, the attorney general of Chihuahua said.
Reports claimed the drug lord was injured in a deadly gun battle with Line Cartel members in Las Pomas, Chihuahua, in October.
Mexican officials said 60 armed members of the Line Cartel, which is aligned with the Juarez Cartel, laid siege to the small community in an attack on Los Jaguares, which had displaced its rival.
Residents said they feared for their lives and they urged the government to protect them from further violence.
Arvizu's 18-year-old girlfriend was arrested by federal police officers in August.
Los Jaguares traffickers are known for murdering and torturing their enemies, kidnapping and extorting victims, and cutting off the hands of people who have wronged them, Excelsior reported.
The cartel mainly moves cocaine and crystal meth, and the drugs bear Arvizu's seal, a jaguar, the report added.
Mexican media said there have been reports of internal disputes within Los Jaguares recently.
Its alleged involvement in Monday's attack has not been confirmed, but it was likely responsible Mr Peniche Espejel said in media interviews.
He has described Los Jaguares as a cell within the Gente Nueva offshoot of the Sinaloa Cartel, one of Mexico’s largest, most violent and wealthiest drug-trafficking organizations.
Also known as the Pacific Cartel, it rose to fame thanks to drug lord Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman.
The hit Netflix programme Narcos: Mexico traces the roots of the cartel.
Last month, heavily-armed cartel gunmen forces Mexican security officers to free one of El Chapo's sons, Ovidio Guzman, 28, as his capture triggered gun battles and a prison break in the city of Culiacan, Sinaloa.
El Chapo, 62, led the Sinaloa Cartel for decades until his most recent capture in 2016 led to him being extradited to the US.
He was jailed for life after being convicted of crimes including murder conspiracies and drug trafficking following a federal trial in New York in February.
He was also ordered to forfeit $12.6bn.
El Chapo is being held in a Colorado supermax prison known as “the Alcatraz of the Rockies”.
Last year, Mexico set a new record with more than 30,000 murders, many of them drug related.
It is on pace to set a new record in 2019, Stratfor reported.
Referring to one of Los Jaguares' rivals, Stratfor wrote in its mid-year report: "One commonality we are observing across Mexico is that the Cartel de Jalisco Nueva Generacion (CJNG) is playing a role in nearly every part of the country experiencing elevated violence, either directly or indirectly."
The victims of Monday's massacre were members of the LeBaron family, a breakaway Mormon community whose ancestors settled in northern Mexico almost 100 years ago.
The early Mormon settlers in Mexico fled the threat of arrest in the United States for practicing polygamy.
They were travelling in three SUVs when they were ambushed near the Mormon community of La Mora, Sonora, about 70 miles south of the US border.
A possible suspect has been arrested in Mexico as authorities hunt the gunmen, according to officials.
Mexico's Ministerial Agency for Criminal Investigations said the man was holding two bound and gagged hostages in the border town of Agua Priests, Sonora.
The man was armed with assault rifles and a huge cache of ammunition, the agency said.
Mexican officials were investigating the reason for the attack, but said it may have been a case of mistaken identity.
The LeBaron community is well-known in the region and has had conflict with drug cartels in the past. Members of the family were murdered years ago.
Family said the Langford children who survived were Kylie, 14, who was shot in the foot; Devin, 13, who was not injured and walked for hours to raise the alarm; McKenzie, nine, whose arm was grazed by a bullet; Cody, eight, who was shot in the face and the leg; Jake, six, who escaped without injury; Xander, four, who was shot in the back; and eight-month-old Brixon, who was shot in the chest
Devin hid his brothers and sisters with tree branches as he walked 14 miles home to get help.
The five wounded children were airlifted to a hospital in Tuscon, Arizona, and a critically injured boy was transferred to a hospital in Phoenix.
Family members said Mrs Miller was driving to Phoenix, Arizona, with her children to pick up her husband from the airport as he returned home from working in North Dakota.
Her car blew a tyre and she returned to the community to get another vehicle and left again just before Mrs Johnson and Mrs Langford left with their children.
Mrs Johnson and Mrs Langford were heading to the neighbouring state of Chihuahua for a wedding due to take place on Friday, according to some family members
Mrs Miller's sister-in-law, Kendra Lee Miller, said one of the mums was going to pick up her husband, a second was going to meet her husband to move to North Dakota, and the third was on her way to visit family in Chihuahua.
She said her brother Andre was fixing the car when he saw a fire and explosion in the distance and went to check it out.
She told CNN: "(He) saw it was my mother's vehicle, full of bullet holes, completely ablaze.
"My dad, Andre and couple of uncles and relatives went to check up on the vehicle.
"All they found was charred remains, ash and bones.
"There were remains inside and outside of the vehicle."
She said her family was recently threatened by cartels over where it can travel.
Mrs Miller and her children were found in and around a burnt Chevrolet Tahoe near the village of San Miguelito, according to state prosecutors.
Mrs Langford and her children were found in a a white Chevrolet Suburban just over 10 miles away.
Mrs Johnson's body was discovered about 50ft from her Suburban near the Sonora-Chihuahua border, with her baby daughter alive inside.
A GoFundMe page set up to support the victims' relatives had raised more than £65,000 as of Wednesday morning.
