
# Lorde Pens Heartfelt Note With Update on Next Album

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:04:26+00:00**

Author: **Noah Yoo**

Original: [Pitchfork](https://pitchfork.com/news/lorde-pens-heartfelt-note-with-update-on-next-album/)

Lorde has penned a lengthy note to subscribers of her newsletter about the status of her next album and the passing of her beloved dog Pearl. The singer-songwriter opens with an explanation of her relative radio silence, writing, “When we first met I would write little notes for you online, and they would form a big map that you would use to chart the constellations in my work. I realized a couple of years ago that I needed to rethink my relationship with posting random shit online all the time, so here we are, a little less in contact than we once were.”
Lorde goes on to explain that Pearl, who she adopted in 2018, passed away last month after battling illnesses. “Pearl had two cardiac arrests about an hour apart, and after the second one, he died,” she wrote. “I was holding him when he went, and I know he knew that I was there. But this loss has been indescribably painful, and a light that was turned on for me has gone out.”
According to the singer-songwriter, Pearl’s death has changed the timetable on her follow-up to 2017’s Melodrama. “He was instrumental to the discovery that was taking place. I felt he led me towards the ideas. And it’s going to take some time and re-calibration, now that there’s no shepherd ahead of me, to see what the work is going to be.” She closes:
