
# At Buffalo Bills’ Halfway Mark, Some Evidence That Josh Allen Is Getting Better

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Curtis Rush**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/curtisrush/2019/11/04/at-buffalo-bills-halfway-mark-some-evidence-that-josh-allen-is-getting-better/)

As the franchise quarterback of the Buffalo Bills, Josh Allen is going to get his critics as well as his supporters. It comes with the territory.Allen’s performance, more than that of any other player, will determine how far the Bills go this year. Much is expected of the sophomore QB, who is still only 23 and has started only 20 games (11-9). We have to remind ourselves of those facts before we drill down too deep.
This may come as a surprise, but his supporters have some strength behind their arguments that Josh Allen isn’t as bad as some critics make out.
The Bills, of course, are 6-2 and off to their best start since the 1993 Super Bowl finalist team. That’s the good part.
And there is more good news.
Some say Allen is inconsistent, and they have a point. But as a team, the Bills were 3-1 for the first four games of the season, and they are 3-1 in their last four games. Hard to argue that the team hasn’t been consistent overall, even though most of the credit for that consistency goes to the defense.
But how about Allen himself? How does his performance over the first four games of the season stack up against the last four? And we are not going to get into the strength of the competition, or the weather, or other peripheral areas.
Well, look at this, you Josh Allen haters. In three key areas, Allen has actually improved his performance quite a bit over the course of the season. The biggest knock against Allen is that he throws too many interceptions.
And the first four games showed how bad Allen can be in this category.
In that bundle of games, Allen threw only three touchdown passes while giving up six interceptions. Allen took heat for that, and deservedly so. He also fumbled the ball five times.
But look at how he has cleaned up his ball security since September. In the last four games, Allen has thrown seven TD passes while tossing only one interception. That’s a big improvement, and one that he wanted to focus on as the season progressed. But he still wasn’t good at holding onto the ball. He fumbled the ball five more times in the past four games.
So, more TD passes and fewer interceptions. Solid on both fronts.
The third area where Allen has improved over the last four games is in completion percentage. He completed 61.6% of his passes, which was a slight uptick over his 60.3% completion percentage in the first four games. Considering that Allen completed only 52.8% of his passes all last year, this is clear evidence that Allen is improving his accuracy and decision making.

        Below is a comparison of Josh Allen’s performance from Games 1-4 and Games 4-8 in TD passes, interceptions and sacks (although the offensive line bears most of the responsibility for the increase in sacks). See how Allen has thrown more TD passes and fewer picks in the last four games compared to the first four.
      
But Allen hasn’t enjoyed wall-to-wall improvement. There are some areas where he and the offense have regressed. But these flaws aren’t as important as the improvements he has made.
For instance, Allen has not been putting up big passing yardage numbers over the past four games. He has thrown only 750 yards over that span, compared to 903 yards in the opening four games. The per-game passing average has dropped from 225.8 yards to only 187.5.
The Bills offensive line has also not been as good at protecting Allen of late, although Allen must share some of that blame for not making quicker decisions. Allen has been sacked 12 times over the past four games, compared to only nine in the opening four games.
Allen has also been less of a productive rusher in the latter four games of the season, gaining 116 yards on 30 attempts for an average carry of 3.87 yards. Over the first four games, Allen carried 31 times and chalked up 131 yards for an average of 4.23 yards per carry.
All in all, the improvements in the important areas of ball security and accuracy have made up for his shortcomings elsewhere. But there are some trendlines to watch.
Why he is throwing for fewer passing yards, putting up fewer rushing yards, and getting sacked more as the season goes on? And why does he continue to fumble so much?
There is good and bad in every quarterback’s performance. But so far, in some of the most important statistical categories, Josh Allen is clearly improving. That will come as good news for fans who are counting on the team returning to the postseason for the first time since 2017.
