
# Strictly Come Dancing's Gorka snubbed as Alex Scott's partner by bosses - because he went to Starbucks

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:10:11+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/strictly-come-dancings-gorka-snubbed-17189133)

Strictly Come Dancing's Gorka was controversially snubbed for Kevin Clifton on the show, it has emerged.
Gorka Marquez was in the running to partner Alex Scott after Neil Jones's injury, according to reports.
But the professional dancer was snubbed by BBC bosses - because he went to Starbucks.
Clifton will once again step into the breach to partner the former Arsenal star.
Scott will partner the professional, who was dumped from the show earlier this series when partnered with Anneka Rice, on Saturday night's episode.
The pair performed a Ghostbusters inspired Halloween special last week.
One show insider said: "It would have been Gorka but he’d gone out for coffee and with 45 minutes to go, it needed to be the fastest option.
"Kevin was there, it was literally a case of grabbing the nearest person, so he got the gig.
"Now it seems unfair to swap partners again, so Kevin will dance with Alex for the second time."
Gorka was last year teamed with Katie Piper and prior to that reached the final with Alexandra Burke but this year missed out and is currently one of the background dancers.
Neil, 37, whose marriage to fellow pro dancer Katya ended this summer, injured his calf muscle during training before last Saturday’s show.
He is expected to be fully recovered for next weekend’s show.
 
Neil said: "No, I won't be dancing tomorrow. I've tried but it's just not ready yet. I'll be fine if I rest this weekend."
Hugging Alex, he added: "You nail the dance, go through, then I'll be ready for you on Monday morning."
Alex confessed: "It's been a strange week to be honest. Going back to ballroom I'm nervous anyway. I'm used to him [Neil]. It's really different dancing with someone else."

        *Strictly Come Dancing airs this Saturday on BBC One
      
