
# Baby 'dies 12 times' as mum gives birth early after falling pregnant on the coil

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:38:44+00:00**

Author: **Bradley Jolly, Hayley Parker, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/bradley-jolly/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/baby-dies-12-times-mum-20836689)

A mum who fell pregnant on the coil told how her miracle baby "died 12 times" after his birth .
Sammi Love, 31, had the coil fitted four months before little Eidy was conceived with her partner of two years, Carl Riley.
And the device caused her to go into early labour by causing her waters to break, Stoke-on-Trent Live says.
Eidy was born weighing just 1lb 6oz - the same size as a Samsung S10 - at 25 weeks in hospital.
The baby enduring around a dozen near death experiences, with Sammi by her side on five of those occasions.
But now aged nine months, the baby has beaten tiny odds to join her siblings at home in Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire.
 
"Eidy's a coil baby, I wasn't expecting her. I only did a pregnancy test because I was feeling unwell, I was sick and tired," Sammi said.
"I thought that was the first thing the GP would ask me, even though it was next to impossible.
"When the test came up positive, I was more than a little bit shocked. I was about six weeks' pregnant.
"Eidy is my fourth and final baby. But we decided if she could beat the coil, she was obviously meant to be."
When she fell pregnant, Sammi was already mum to Ryan, aged 13, Zakk, aged nine, and Ebon, aged eight, with her ex-husband.
 
The former waitress, who worked in a tea room until Eidy came home from hospital, was told her due date was May 25 this year - but ended up giving birth on February 12.
She said: "Because the coil was so close to her, there was a risk taking it out could cause miscarriage.
"The pregnancy was absolutely awful. I was really sick and had to be off work for six weeks at one point.
"I only stopped being sick at 23 weeks, then my waters broke at 24. The coil had ruptured the membrane (pricked the amniotic sack).
"I was at home when it happened, I'd been at work during the day and my sister came round for tea with the kids, which was homemade soup.
"She left about 7.30pm and I had backache so I sat down on the sofa, then I said 'Karl, I can't get up'. I thought I'd wet myself at first.
"I had C-sections with all the boys because I've had a hip replacement, so I rang my sister and said 'what's it like when your waters break?' but she'd had a C-section too.
"I rang my mum, who said to call the hospital, and they told me to put a pad on and lie on my left-hand side for half an hour.
"But it was obvious by then my waters had broken, so I went straight into Royal Stoke University Hospital.
"We went to the Medical Assessment Unit and, as I was having an internal examination, the doctor asked the nurse if my baby was alive. Luckily she was fine."
Sammi was moved hospital and gave birth four days later.
"I was miles away from home so I wasn’t getting any visitors although Carl stayed with me, he works at a builders' merchant but they were really good about it," the mum-of-four added.
"At 11.30am that day, I started getting contractions. They didn't think I was in labour as I wasn't dilating, they said my uterus was just stressed.
"At 3am on Tuesday, I asked the nurse for some pain relief and she said to wait for the doctor's ward round at 6am. I had Eidy at 6.05.
"Carl was asleep on the chair but I woke him and said 'you need to help me get my leggings off', then 'go get the midwife'.
"By the time they came back into the room, I had Eidy in my hands. She was very impatient. I'd gone from not dilating at all, to having a baby on the bed in the ward.
"The coil came out with her. The midwife picked it up and said 'do you want this?' I said 'I never want to see that again in my life'."
Sammi added: "She was the same size as my Samsung S10 phone, she was tiny. They don’t measure premmies anymore, but they estimated her at 10.5 inches.
"She came out crying, which was a good sign, then they took her down to intensive care for an assessment.
"It was six hours before we got to see her, it was very surreal.
"Even now I'm numb to it until I think 'my baby could have been dead'. If she wasn't over a certain weight or hadn't shown signs of life, they wouldn't have intervened.
"We were initially told her survival rate was just 15 per cent. When she came out, she looked great and was breathing on her own, but within 48 hours she'd had a drop.
"She also got sepsis at seven days old, and we were questioned about what we wanted to do.
"She had what I call a code blue. Her heartbeat dropped to four beats a minute. All I could think was 'if she dies, she's going to want her mum'.
"Eidy was re-ventilated five times in total. She was really good with apnoea, that was her party trick.
"She’d get sent into the final room at special care, then she’d go blue and end up back in intensive care, because she’d have to be resuscitated.
"I've watched her die five times, I wasn't there for the others. It was about a dozen times in total."
Eidy, who will be nine months old next week, now feeds through a peg fed into her stomach - because she's developed oral aversion from being ventilated.
Sammi said: "She was in hospital for 128 days, 19 weeks, and was on a ventilator for seven weeks.
"It was awful, now I look back on it. At the time, you're numb and living in the moment.
"You can't think about it too much, because it can break you. You’ve got to be OK for your baby.
"Everything can change so fast with a premature baby. They can be fine in the morning and fighting for their life by the evening."
Eidy came home for four weeks on June 19, but ended up back in hospital for 10 weeks with her feeding issues.
Sammi said: "She only came out properly four weeks ago. She's still tiny, she was weighed last week and she was only 12lb 12oz. She wears nought to three-month clothes."
