
# Heartless thief broke into disabled cousin's Dumbarton home

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:50:41+00:00**

Author: **Lennox Herald, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/lennox-herald/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/heartless-thief-broke-disabled-cousins-20818007)

A heartless thief broke into his disabled cousin’s home and made off with hundreds of pounds worth of his belongings in an act described as “despicable”.
Anthony Hollern smashed his way into the man’s house with a spade in Dumbarton East in broad daylight, alerting a neighbour who watched it all unfold.
The 39-year-old, who was also accompanied by a woman, lifted a TV, cables, remote controls, a football shirt, electric razor and tobacco.
He appeared in the dock at Dumbarton Sheriff Court last week where he was locked up for two years.
His lawyer said Hollern, formerly of Brucehill, had knocked back 30 Valium tablets before his crime, which he committed with “no finesse or subtlety whatsoever”.
Explaining the relationship between Hollern and his victim, Kevin Doherty, fiscal depute, said: “The complainer is a relative of the accused.
“He is a vulnerable individual who is disabled and requires intensive support from his family. Anthony Hollern is well aware of that.”
He said a neighbour phoned the police immediately on seeing Hollern break into the house on Victoria Street.
 
The fiscal continued: “He was accompanied by a woman. He smashed a window to the property and thereafter entered and removed various items of property.
“Police attended to a report of housebreaking. Hollern and the woman were found nearby.
“He had a bag containing property from the flat. He had items of property stolen from the flat in his pocket.
“The items stolen were a TV and cables, remote controls, a football shirt, electic razor and a quantity of tobacco.
“The value of the items stolen were £400.”
All of the stolen goods were recovered and Hollern, who has three previous convictions for housebreaking, later pled guilty to the break-in and theft.
Kenny Clark, defending, described it as an “opportunistic” offence, claiming Hollern had gone over to his cousin’s to have a drink with him.
He said: “Mr Hollern in the past has had a drug problem. He has managed to control that drug problem but in the period leading up to this offence, he had been abusing Valium.
 
“On the evening and overnight, he reckons he consumed 30 Valium tablets.
“It’s his belief that he went to his cousin’s house with, who he was on good terms with, to have a drink.
“His cousin was not in and that’s when he managed to obtain a spade from an insecure cellar nearby.
“He took the spade and broke the window. There was no finesse or subtlety whatsoever.
“It would appear to support his explanation that it was opportunistic. He describes it to me as complete stupidity.
“He recognises the gravity of it. He has three previous convictions for theft by housebreaking, one at a solemn level.”
Describing the offence as “despicable”, Sheriff William Gallacher said: “You knew this was a person who required assistance and support and you violated that and destroyed the trust and confidence and you did that to satisfy yourself.”
Hollern, whose address was given in court papers as Greenock prison, was sentenced to two years in jail, backdated to August 30.
