
# Florida woman accused of abusing dog while intoxicated and facing child neglect charges

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:38:29+00:00**

Author: **WFTS Digital Staff**

Original: [Fox 4](https://www.fox4now.com/florida-woman-accused-of-abusing-dog-while-intoxicated-and-facing-child-neglect-charges)

SAFETY HARBOR, Fla. — A woman in Pinellas County accused of abusing a dog while drunk at a trick-or-treating event on Halloween is now facing DUI and child neglect charges.
According to arrest reports, witnesses told deputies Kyra Brim, 35, was beating her dog while walking around downtown Safety Harbor during the community event.
Deputies say Brim was making a scene while walking with the dog and an 8-year-old child. She was staggering and yelling profanities, the reports say.
When deputies asked how she got to the event, Brim told them she walked there because she lived nearby. According to the reports, when deputies advised Brim to go home she said to the child, "lets just take the dog to the truck and go home."
When deputies asked about the truck, reports say Brim told them there was no truck and said, again, she walked to the event. Brim then walked to a blue Chevy truck and got into the driver's seat, the reports say.
Brim turned the truck on, backed out and started to drive. The reports say several deputies tried to prevent her from leaving and she was pulled over.
Brim refused to do field sobriety tests or provide a breath sample. She was arrested and charged with driving under the influence, driving with a suspended license and child neglect.
