
# Lee Alexander's penalty heroics send Glasgow City into Champions League quarter-final

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:16:41+00:00**

Author: **Paul Thomson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/paul-thomson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/lee-alexanders-penalty-heroics-send-20787483)

Lee Alexander was the hero for Glasgow City last night after her penalty saves sent the club into the Champions League quarter-finals.
The 28-year-old goalkeeper, who grew up in Stewartfield, was in top form as she denied Brondby three times from the spot in a nail-biting 3-1 penalty shootout victory.
The Danish side had trailed 2-0 going into the second leg at Petershill Park, but they drew level on aggregate after 90 minutes and the sides couldn't be separated during extra-time.
Alexander made a string of top stops during the match to keep Brondby at bay and in the shootout she denied Julie Tavlo-Petersson, Freje Abilda and Louise Kristiansen, allowing Jo Love to fire home the winning penalty for City.
That sparked jubilant scenes in front of a delighted home crowd, as manager Scott Booth celebrated with his players on the pitch.
It's the second time City have reached this stage of the elite competition, having faced Paris Saint Germain in the 2014/15 season, and Alexander said: "It's up there with one of the best moments in my career.
"I think this seems like a bigger achievement second time around with way that football has progressed across Europe in the last five years with regards to money. "We are an amateur team competing against teams that will have five-times the budget we have, but again we have shown that we deserve to be at this level."
Asked if she felt her display was her best in a City shirt, Lee added: "I’m 28 now so I’m probably hitting the peak of my career.
"I’m very fortunate to have had similar experiences to last night that helps in pressure moments.
"We are quite an experienced team in terms of some of the players have played at this stages quite a few times but last night was different.
"We showed on the pitch for the last hour that we can compete at this level and just delighted for everyone involved."
The Scottish champions, who wrapped up a 13th league title in a row last week, are now in the hat for next Friday's draw alongside giants Wolfsburg, Lyon, Barcelona, PSG, Arsenal, Atletico Madrid and Bayern Munich.
"I'm not looking too far ahead with regards to the draw, " said the Scotland international.
"We know the calibre of teams that are left at this stage of the competition.
"And we are under no illusions that we will be the underdogs in this next tie, but we look forward to the next round."
