
# Motor repairs 'a costly business'

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:44:10+00:00**

Author: **Al Suttie**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/motoring/motor-repairs-a-costly-business-20827810)

DRIVERS in the UK are spending £21billion a year fixing problems with their cars – and motorists in Glasgow are most at risk from a flat tyre, according to a study.
Scotland’s pothole epidemic is one of the reasons for drivers in Glasgow suffering more punctures per 1000 cars on the road than anywhere else in the UK. In fact, 13 per cent of British car owners report experiencing a flat tyre during the past 12 months.
Other major causes of breakdowns include engine overheating (18 per cent), a worn clutch (17 per cent) and damaged windscreen and engine oil problems (both 14 per cent).
These faults have led one in five drivers to miss an important event such as the birth of a child, job interview and even funerals. People in Edinburgh were the most likely to miss a funeral (eight per cent), while a whopping 774,000 Brits have missed a wedding due to car troubles.
The research by car care and maintenance firm Holts shows drivers in the UK spend £330million every year on breakdown cover and the average annual bill for car repairs is £559.
However, the study into the hidden costs of breakdowns also highlighted one in 10 drivers waited up to 10 hours before help arrived – missing a day’s work at an average cost of £128 or a vital event as a result.
   
A major reason for the rising breakdown figures is that drivers are not carrying out basic work on their cars, such as changing a wheel or checking the engine oil regularly. Some 78 per cent of drivers say they don’t feel comfortable taking on even the most basic repairs to their car.
Holts brand manager Tavia Spencer said: “Our research highlights that drivers are spending excessively when it comes to repairs on their car, especially when many of these can be fixed at home or by the roadside.
“You often don’t need to be a fully trained mechanic or savvy under the bonnet, there are simple solutions available which will reduce call-outs and lost time.”
She added: “If drivers were more confident doing basic repairs on their cars, the money saved could be spent on more fun activities. If they didn’t spend money on breaking down, coffee lovers could enjoy 240 cups per year for what they spend on repairs.
“Breaking down can be a real inconvenience and cause a number of disruptions, but there are processes and emergency products available to help drivers get back on the road in a simple way with minimal fuss.”
Go to www.holtsauto.com/holts/news/the-hidden-cost-of-breakdowns/ to find out more about the hidden costs associated with breaking down.
