
# 5 ‘Now Or Never’ Stars WWE Must Push ASAP

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Blake Oestriecher**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/blakeoestriecher/2019/11/03/5-now-or-never-stars-wwe-must-push-asap/)

WWE typically relies on a handful of stars to carry its product, but the company is finally taking a chance on pushing some new names up the card.In recent months, WWE has noticeably put more effort into going beyond just pushing Roman Reigns, Seth Rollins, Becky Lynch, Charlotte Flair, Brock Lesnar and the other marquee names of the wrestling world. While many of those stars who have already been established as top acts are still being featured prominently on WWE’s programming, there has been a definitive uptick in the number of new superstars WWE is moving up the card–whether slowly or with a rocket strapped to their backs.
Once forgotten acts like Cedric Alexander have gone from nearly nonexistent to consistent roles on TV while WWE is again trying to ensure that stars like Lacey Evans cement themselves among WWE’s greats. But with a crowded roster that is perhaps the most talented in WWE’s storied history, there is a limited amount of opportunities for rising stars to break through that glass ceiling and become household names. This week, SmackDown was backed into a corner and had to rely on several NXT stars to carry the load, and lo and behold, the show had a huge increase in viewership. That’s a surefire sign that fans are thirsty for more new talent working at the top of the card.
A year ago, Becky Lynch was able to break through and went on to main event WrestleMania. Currently, there are several other young stars who are being positioned for a successful future, but many of them are classic cases of WWE needing to strike while the iron is hot. Here are five “now or never” WWE stars who the company must push before it’s too late.

        Shorty G
      
Vince McMahon is reportedly a huge fan of Chad Gable, which explains why the former Olympian suddenly got a massive like an RKO out of nowhere during the King of the Ring tournament.
While Gable–now known as Shorty G (which explains that trademark application fans were curious about)–is one of the best pure in-ring performers in all of WWE, he’s also one of those stars who could easily be a regular on TV today and completely forgotten tomorrow. McMahon, after all, is notorious for constantly changing his mind, and Shorty G–no matter how talented he is–is one of those undersized stars who perfectly fits the mold as someone who McMahon might cool off on overnight with no real explanation, especially with his somewhat ridiculous new gimmick. Shorty G has been on the main roster for a few years now, and aside from a few brief tag team pushes, his recent run in the KOTR tourney was the first time WWE seemed committed to pushing him for an extended period.
At 33 years old, Shorty G may be smack dab in the middle of the prime of his career, but whether or not he succeeds in WWE will depend upon how WWE capitalizes–or fails to capitalize–on the momentum he’s built up as the prototypical underdog and whether his gimmick turns to a comedic farce at the bottom of the card. WWE needs more babyfaces who can work their way up on Raw and SmackDown, and though Shorty G is someone who has the skills to step up and fill a spot in the main event picture, he’s already fallen through the cracks on the main roster several times and is just one misstep away from doing it again.
Should WWE fail to find a compelling storyline for Shorty G in the near future, the odds are high that it never will.

        Nikki Cross
      
Nikki Cross’s recent pairing with Alexa Bliss is a classic case of trying to make someone popular by association, and it’s working.
Putting Cross with Bliss has helped “The Goddess” become a huge babyface and done the same for Cross, who had a rocky start on the main roster when she was promoted there earlier this year only to immediately disappear. Upon Cross’s arrival to Raw and SmackDown, it was unclear if WWE would ever “get” her character, which became very popular in NXT but was initially a niche gimmick that didn’t seem to have much room for advancement. While Cross has shown a wide range of skills on the main roster–including above average in-ring abilities and the ability to adjust her character when necessary–she has a unique character and doesn’t fit the prototypical mold of the type of female superstars WWE usually pushes, which has rightfully caused some concern about her chances of long-term success.
During her pairing with Bliss, though, Cross has demonstrated that she’s incredibly likable and relatable, and now, she’s doing so on her own as a singles star. What’s more, she’s doing very well thus far with those limited opportunities as a singles competitor. For now, Cross fits in nicely as a loosely associated sidekick to Bliss, and the best way to solidify her as one of WWE’s most unique and popular babyfaces is to eventually have Bliss betray her, which would both put Bliss back in her more natural heel role and would instantly make Cross an even bigger fan favorite.
On that same token, it’s difficult to envision Cross–who’s been labeled as one of WWE’s “breakout” stars–being able to break away from the pack if WWE doesn’t take advantage of her recent breakthroughs and her association with Bliss to ensure that she becomes the stars fans are begging for her to be.

        Ricochet
      
WWE clearly has something going with Ricochet.
A star who once was a huge draw for NXT and has also been deemed a major draw among the teen demographic by Paul Heyman, Ricochet has been consistently getting some of the loudest crowd reactions in all of WWE and even generating strong TV ratings too, despite being plagued by start-and-stop pushes. Ricochet is one of the most innovative and naturally gifted wrestlers in the world, and fans recognize that, which is why they’re responding to him in such a big way night in and night out. But Ricochet does have a few things working against him.
One, he’s below average as a talker. Two, he’s on the smaller side. Three, he’s the latest in a long line of former NXT standouts who have struggled at times on the main roster. Despite always delivering in the ring, Ricochet could be held back by his subpar mic skills and his size, but he doesn’t have to be the next NXT star to get lost in the shuffle on the main roster. WWE was booking Ricochet quite well when he was feuding with AJ Styles, and that’s the type of “slow burn” approach the creative team needs to be taking with “The One and Only.” WWE just can’t move too slowly.
What WWE needs to do is listen to crowd reaction, keep Ricochet hovering around that upper midcard, and then elevate him with a compelling storyline against a major heel–someone like Brock Lesnar, perhaps. It takes a great heel to make a great babyface, and WWE is one quality angle away from catapulting Ricochet into the next stratosphere. On that same token, WWE is also one misstep away from Ricochet being the latest great in-ring performer–much like Sami Zayn–to get stuck in the midcard and stay there forever.

        Aleister Black
      
Despite Aleister Black working hand-in-hand with Raw head honcho Paul Heyman and reportedly having a ton of support backstage, earlier this year he disappeared from TV altogether without a trace. Though he’s back on TV, he doesn’t have anything even remotely resembling a real feud.
What a monumental waste of talent that’s been considering that Black is one of WWE’s best pure in-ring performers and one of its most captivating characters as well. At 34 years old, Black also happens to be in the prime of his career, but perception is reality and the reality is that the longer Black goes without a consistent TV role, the more he’ll be perceived as just another guy. Whether it’s his size or his niche gimmick that’s holding him back, Black finds himself in the same shoes as countless other NXT stars from the past–ranging from Bobby Roode to Zayn to EC3–who WWE couldn’t find a role for on the main roster.
That shouldn’t be difficult to do for a tremendous talent like Black, but as WWE continues to stockpile talent, there will be fewer spots for stars like Black who haven’t been prioritized and are in jeopardy of being forgotten about by WWE’s creative team and its fans, especially with Raw’s viewership sinking to historic lows and WWE likely to rely on proven stars, like Lesnar, because of it. The main issue with a star like Black–who’s accomplished most of his feats in NXT–is that he really hasn’t been established as a mainstream star, only truly making a mark in NXT, which has a much smaller and more targeted audience than Raw or SmackDown.
Whereas stars who’ve previously had a lot of main roster exposure and succeed there can make their way back into WWE’s good graces, guys like Black are stuck between a rock and a hard place: They were major stars in NXT, but the presentation of their characters on the main roster killed their star power on Raw or SmackDown. The longer Black goes without a storyline or at least a featured role on TV, the further away he gets from his days in NXT and the more he’s erased from the memory of fans who don’t know much about him.

        Bray Wyatt
      
No matter how you slice it–whether it be fan reaction, merchandise sales or performance–Bray Wyatt has been an instant hit as “The Fiend” and demonstrated that he has all the makings of someone who could become a sizable draw for WWE.
But as fans have seen in the past, nothing is a sure thing with Wyatt, who debuted to much fanfare in 2013 but had plenty of ups and downs once The Wyatt Family disbanded. Now, Wyatt–the new Universal Champion–has the most buzzworthy gimmick in recent WWE history, but it’s one that requires very careful booking: One wrong move, and all the excitement that’s surrounding Wyatt could end just like that as it nearly did at Hell in a Cell. He has to be protected at all costs, and he shouldn’t suffer a clean loss–or ideally any loss–for the foreseeable future if WWE truly wants to establish him as its next major attraction, especially after the horrendous booking of his match against Seth Rollins at Hell in a Cell and some generally questionable booking of his character since then.
Wyatt has the potential to be the closest thing to The Undertaker that WWE has ever seen, and if booked right, could be a Lesnar-like draw for the company for the next 10 years. Though it may be very early on in his run with his new gimmick, the old saying that “you only get one chance to make a first impression” certainly applies here. Wyatt’s still making his first impression on many fans after WWE dropped the ball at Hell in a Cell, and though WWE may have made up for that with his win at Crown Jewel in which he looked stronger than any star in recent memory, the follow-up to that big win will be oh so crucial.
What happens if Wyatt–like he did as “The Eater of Worlds”–starts losing and being involved in more poorly written, over-the-top storylines like his one with Rollins? It’s all downhill from there, which is why WWE needs to tread carefully. Very carefully.
“The Fiend” must be pushed as a dominant, unstoppable force for the foreseeable future if WWE has any intentions of him becoming its next major attraction.
