
# Hamilton honoured by overwhelming historic sixth F1 title

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:58:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Newton**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49376/hamilton-honoured-by-overwhelming-sixth-f1-title.html)


        Lewis Hamilton says that he is overwhelmed by winning his sixth world title, putting himself outright second behind only Michael Schumacher on the list of most F1 world titles. Hamilton came home second behind teammate Valtteri Bottas at the United States Grand Prix to secure the title with two races left to go in the 2019 season.
      
Hamilton led for many of the closing laps before being overtaken by Bottas, who took his fourth win of the season. 
The Brit told Sky Sports' Martin Brundle after the race: "It's just overwhelming. It was such a tough race today. Yesterday was a really difficult day for us, Valtteri did a fantastic job.

        "Today I just wanted to recover and deliver the one-two for the team. I didn't think the one-stop would be possible.
      

        "I'm filled with so much emotion. It's an honour to be up here with those greats."
      
Hamilton added that he is still feeling fresh ahead of a charge for title seven next year, adding: "My dad told me when I was 6 or 7 years old to never give up. That's the family motto. I was pushing as hard as I could and was hopeful I'd be able to win today but didn't have it in the tyres.

        "I don't know about championships, but as an athlete I'm as fresh as can be right now. These next races we won't let up."
      
