
# Horse euthanised after suffering 'serious' injury during Breeders' Cup Classic race

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:13:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/sport/horse-injured-during-race-at-breeders-cup-classic-12058936)

ARCADIA, California: Breeders' Cup Classic runner Mongolian Groom was euthanised after suffering a serious fracture to his left hind limb on Saturday (Nov 2), becoming the 37th horse to die at Santa Anita racetrack since December.
The equine deaths - starting with more than 20 in the first three months of the track's Winter-Spring meeting - had put Santa Anita and the sport of horse racing under fierce scrutiny from animal rights activists as well as state and federal government officials in the build up to the US$28 million Breeders' Cup meeting.
"The death of Mongolian Groom is a loss to the entire horse racing community," a statement from Breeders' Cup Limited said.
Breeders' Cup officials said veterinarian Larry Bramlage would conduct an independent evaluation of the death "the results of which will be published when completed."
A 4-year-old son of Hightail, Mongolian Groom qualified for the US$6 million Classic -- the showpiece of the 14-race, US$28 million Breeders' Cup - with a win in the Grade One Awesome Again Stakes.
He was making his 17th career start and 11th of the season and was in the middle of the field as they turned for home when jockey Abel Cedillo pulled him up.
The horse was taken from the track in an equine ambulance and examined by a team of veterinarians at the track's hospital.
"During their evaluation at the equine hospital at Santa Anita, they observed a serious fracture to his left hind limb," the statement said. "Radiographs were taken and a complete evaluation was performed.
Given the extent of the injury, four veterinarians recommended humane euthanasia, the statement said.
