
# Dubai’s Candypants launches a surfside sports club

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:20:00+00:00**

Author: **Reema Rahman**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/things-to-do/421939-dubais-candypants-launches-a-surfside-sports-club)

Looking for things to do in Dubai?How about a brand new night at a brand new bar?
Global party brand Candypants has teamed up with brand-spanking new beach bar Bungalow – La Mer’s newest licensed venue – for its latest night.
Describe as “surfer’s dream meets chic sports bar”, the Candypants Surfside Sports Club will be held every Monday from 5pm until 2am and promises to be the ultimate hangout for “sportsmen and cheerleaders alike”.
It kicks off with the 'home run happy hour' from 5pm until 8pm with 50 percent off hops, grape and short measures.
Continue the evening from 8pm until 11pm with either the Sportsman’s Package of unlimited hops, nibbles and shisha for Dhs199 or the Sportswoman’s Package, which includes free-flowing mixed drinks, nibbles and shisha for Dhs99.
Want to be crowned the Surfside Sports Club champion?
Head down with your most gluttonous mate and if you can both polish off a massive surfboard of bites under 90 minutes, it’s on the house. Fail the monster of an eating challenge and it’ll cost you Dhs550.
The challenge involves wolfing down 12 mixed wings, three burgers, one pizza, two quesadillas, three different types of edamame, nachos, calamari and fries. One for the braver guests, we’ll say.
For all the latest nightlife news, deals and events across Dubai click here.Mon 5pm-2am. La Mer, Jumeirah 1, www.bungalowdubai.com (054 994 7970).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
