
# Santa’s coming: Christmas Wonderland’s jingling back to Gardens by the Bay with parade, Nordic-inspired floral displays, new light sculpture

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:08:57+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Singapore**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/singapore/lifestyle/santas-coming-christmas-wonderlands-jingling-back-to-gardens-by-the-bay-with-parade-nordic-inspired-floral-displays-new-light-sculpture/)

Singaporeans obsessed with light installations and Instagram-worthy photo opportunities will be happy to know that the sixth edition of the Christmas (selfie) Wonderland is returning to Gardens by the Bay at the end of this month with a slew of new attractions. 
From Nov 29 to Dec 26, the most wonderful time of the year at one of the top tourist attractions will feature its first Christmas parade, Nordic-inspired floral displays curated by the Ambassador of Denmark for Singapore herself, and a new art installation made with tens of thousands of colorful bulbs so you’ll have one more photo backdrop to play with other than the Italian light sculptures that have been the event’s centerpiece since it started. 
The humble Christmas parade, consisting of just three floats, will make its rounds on the event’s carnival fairground on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays, as well as Christmas and Boxing Day. Expect to see Santa riding his sleigh, santarinas, cheeky penguins, and snowmen in the parade. 
This year’s carnival will also see nearly 20 rides and games, and the Christmas Village will feature new vendors — names of which will be announced at a later time, according to organizer Blue Sky Events.
The Poinsettia Wishes Floral Display at Gardens by the Bay’s Flower Dome, creatively directed by Ambassador Dorte Bech Vizard, will showcase iconic landmarks of Nordic countries adorned with Christmas decorations.
Expect a long queue of selfie hopefuls at the event’s new “Walk of Peace,” a 50-meter tunnel structure made with 60,000 light bulbs. The Mistletoe Alley installation will be pimped out with more lights too.
Not enough lights, you say? You can also catch a special light and sound Christmas show in the Supertree Grove.
New additions to this year’s event also include a “Santa’s Workshop” corner, where visitors can surround themselves with elves working hard to make their Christmas production quotas. There will also be theatre performances by international acts such as New York-based illusionist Vitaly Beckman, Australian circus performers Trash Test Dummies, and a London theatre production called Snow Play.
This year’s Yuletide live music sessions and Christmas caroling are courtesy of acts including Singaporean songstress Inch Chua and the Hwa Chong Institution Choir. Tickets starting at S$6 are available online now.

        
          FIND IT:
        
      

        Nov. 29 – Dec. 26
        
          
        
        5pm – 11pm, Mon – Thu
        
          
        
        4pm – 11pm , Fri to Sun, Xmas Day, Boxing Day
      

        4pm – 12:30am, Xmas Eve
      

        Tickets start at S$6.
      

        Venue: Gardens by the Bay, 18 Marina Gardens Drive
      
