
# Is it sexist to call a brilliant, fit, younger male lover a toyboy?

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:00:23+00:00**

Author: **Guardian Staff**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/shortcuts/2019/nov/06/sexist-toyboy-helena-bonham-carter-dating)


        Helena Bonham Carter is dating a man 21 years her junior and has decried the use of the term ‘toyboy’
      
Name: Toyboy.
Age: Considerably younger.
Appearance: Fit.
Why does it have to be all about looks? Because apart from youth, that’s the main bit of being a toyboy.
Not necessarily. Yes, necessarily.
I’d like to hear your definition of toyboy, in that case. Toyboy (n): a younger, handsome, well-built, not terribly bright lover.
How dare you assume that’s what women are looking for in a toyboy? Sorry, are you looking for an unattractive toyboy who is older than you?
No, but why can’t a toyboy be much younger and also very clever? I don’t know, but I can’t think of an example.
What about Helena Bonham Carter’s boyfriend Rye Dag Holmboe? The name doesn’t ring a bell. Can you describe him?
Well, he is 21 years her junior … Classic toyboy.
That’s unfair. “Toyboy is a really sexist remark,” Bonham Carter told the Sunday Times magazine recently. “It implies he’s got nothing to offer than his body.” So his body’s no good?
Bonham Carter acknowledged that his body is “fantastic”. “But along with the body,” she said, “he’s got a great mind and a great humour.” I’m sure he’s very nice. But can two people born 21 years apart have enough in common to sustain a relationship?
Bonham Carter thinks so. “He’s an old soul in a young body,” she said. “What more could I want?” “Old soul in a young body” is just code. It means either “socially awkward” or “can’t dance”.
You’re just being intolerant now. Can you imagine someone implying that a man and his beautiful, much younger girlfriend had nothing in common? I can, just about.
So what if I told you that I, as a woman, was looking for a powerfully built younger man with whom I could foster an intellectual partnership as well as a lasting intellectual bond? I’d say OK, but that you’ve come to the wrong dating agency. We just pair toyboys with cougars – no funny stuff.
Cougars? Mature women looking for younger men to toy with.
How impossibly reductive. Isn’t there a more sophisticated approach? There is one website offering “a space free from all existing social connotations about age-gap relationships … facilitating members to build a genuine connection with one another”.
Perfect. What’s it called? Toyboy Warehouse.
Do say: “Listen, I don’t care how many A-levels you’ve got. Just don’t call me mummy and we’ll get along fine.”
Don’t say: “Well, this is awkward – I’m sure I wrote tomboy on my profile.”
