
# Lionel Messi returns to Argentina squad for friendlies against Brazil and Uruguay after serving three-month ban

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:21:21+00:00**

Author: **Harry Latham-Coyle**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/international/lionel-messi-sergio-aguero-argentina-squad-friendlies-brazil-uruguay-three-month-ban-barcelona-a9180401.html)

Lionel Messi has been called up to the Argentina squad for friendlies against Brazil and Uruguay after serving a three-month ban.
The Barcelona forward was banned after making controversial comments about Copa America.
Sergio Aguero also returns to the squad.
The Manchester City striker had been excluded by coach Lionel Scaloni since the continental competition concluded in July.
Messi is available after the conclusion of his ban, which was imposed by CONMEBOL after he made accusations of corruption following the tournament in Brazil.
Argentina finished third after losing to eventual champions Brazil in the semi-finals.
Aguero is joined in the squad by City teammate Nicolas Otamendi.
Totttenham’s Juan Foyth and Giovani Lo Celso, Manchester United’s Marcos Rojo, Watford’s Roberto Pereyra and Arsenal goalkeeper Emiliano Martinez are the other English Premier League representatives in the squad.
Argentina play Brazil in Saudi Arabia on November 15 and Uruguay in Israel three days later.

        Argentina squad for friendlies against Brazil and Uruguay:
      
Goalkeepers: Agustin Marchesin (Porto), Juan Mussi (Udinese), Emiliano Martinez (Arsenal), Esteban Andrada (Boca Juniors).
Defenders: Juan Foyth (Tottenham), Renzo Saravia (Porto), Nicolas Otamendi (Manchester City), German Pezzella (Fiorentina), Marcos Rojo (Manchester United), Walter Kannemann (Gremio), Nicolas Tagliafico (Ajax), Nehuen Perez (Famalicao).
Midfielders: Guido Rodriguez (America de Mexico), Giovani Lo Celso (Tottenham), Leandro Paredes (Paris Saint-Germain), Nicolas Dominguez (Velez Sarsfield), Rodrigo de Paul (Udinese), Marcos Acuna (Sporting Lisbon), Roberto Pereyra (Watford), Lucas Ocampos (Sevilla).
Strikers: Lionel Messi (Barcelona), Sergio Aguero (Manchester City), Nicolas Gonzalez (Stuttgart), Lucas Alario (Bayer Leverkusen), Lautaro Martinez (Inter Milan) and Paulo Dybala (Juventus).
