
# Amazon Baby Wishlist customers can now get 240 baby wipes for free

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:20:28+00:00**

Author: **Linda Howard**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/family-kids/amazon-baby-wishlist-customers-can-20793296)

A new month means new deals - and not just Black Friday offerings.
While we’re all keen to see what bargains the big day will bring, Amazon has already revealed a handy deal aimed at helping families this November.
Amazon offers parents the chance to make huge savings with their Baby Wishlist and now there is a brand new freebie shoppers will love.
The online retailing giant is a huge platform for parents to get everything they need for the arrival of their little one and now they have a fantastic offer to get 240 baby wipes completely free .
 
In the past, the Baby Wishlist deal has included other great, practical freebies including nappy disposal bins and MAM product packs - so this latest one is another treat to add to the list for those wanting to grab a nifty saving while they can.
To get the deal, shoppers just need to spend £20 in Amazon’s Baby Store and they can claim the 4-pack of 60 wipes.
And if you're not already an Amazon Prime Member , you can sign up for a 30-day free trial and get unlimited, free deliveries and exclusive offers (£7.99 per month after the trial, so just cancel before the end date and pay nothing).
Step 1: Create a Baby Wishlist here
Step 2: Go to the WaterWipes (4 packs x 60 wipes) product page   - Add one (1) to your Baby Wishlist.
Step 3: Add at least £20 worth of eligible baby products from the Baby Store (excluding nappies, formula, baby food and books) to your Baby Wishlist. Eligible products are  dispatched and sold by Amazon.
Step 4: Add your selected products (including the WaterWipes) to your shopping basket. Proceed to checkout where on the “Review your order” page under "Order Summary" you will see the promotion has been applied to your total.
Step 5: For promotion to apply, make sure you select the same delivery option for all items being shipped.
Step 6: Click “Buy now” to complete the transaction.
 
