
# 2020 MG ZS EV to be unveiled in India on December 5

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:25:31+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/2020-mg-zs-ev-to-be-unveiled-in-india-on-december-5/)

MG Motor India has announced that it will unveil its second offering for the Indian market, the MG ZS electric SUV on December 5 at an event in New Delhi. MG Motor India head, Rajeev Chaba, told OVERDRIVE in an interaction that his firm will launch the MG ZS EV in India by December.
The ZS EV is being brought in as a CBU wherein 250 units will be imported from Shanghai. MG claims that the ZS EV will be a global offering and will have a driving range of 350km in one single charge. The MG ZS EV could be powered by a 52.5kWh lithium-ion battery pack. A full charge could take eight hours from a wall charger. The firm is choosing this niche model to further highlight its aim of being a technology leader in the automotive industry. It recently opened the country's first digital showroom in Bengaluru in keeping with this.
MG is partnering with Fortum to install 50kW CCS/CHAdeMO DC fast Public Charging Stations for Electric Vehicles across MG's showrooms in five cities including Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad by September this year to begin with. The firm has also partnered with Delta Electronics, a player in the AC charging space, to develop EV infrastructure.
The firm will start slow with the ZS EV, and launch the electric SUV in five cities to begin with. Once there is greater acceptance, infrastructure and a trained dealer network, the EV will be launched in more cities.  The MG Hector's production schedule will not affect the ZS EV either. The two cars are independent programmes and built on separate lines.
