
# Katharine Moody on Government options for bottom trawling, pokies, synthetic nitrogen, agricultural emissions and the Billion Trees policy

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Guest**

Original: [interest.co.nz](https://www.interest.co.nz/opinion/102433/katharine-moody-government-options-bottom-trawling-pokies-synthetic-nitrogen)

This week’s Top 5 is from Katharine Moody, a senior tutor at Massey University's College of Humanities and Social Sciences in Palmerston North, who comments on interest.co.nz as "Kate".
As always, we welcome your additions in the comments below or via email to david.chaston@interest.co.nz.
And if you're interested in contributing the occasional Top 10 yourself, contact gareth.vaughan@interest.co.nz.
1.  Ban bottom trawling in our EEZ
New Zealand Geographic’s latest issue looks at the economic, social and environmental downsides of our Fisheries Quota Management System (QMS), and the failings of repeated governments to modernise the outdated neoliberal policy framework. There are many other downsides to the QMS, but the policy that permits bottom trawling is the most ecologically destructive.
As Paul McCartney suggests, if slaughterhouses had glass walls, everyone would be vegetarian.  And so too for seafood, if the sight of our seabed destruction was an in-your-face daily reality.
Millennia to recover.  We need to demonstrate to the world, responsible stewardship in this critical policy area.  Plenty of other countries have done it.

        2.  Ban pokies
      
Stuff recently ran this three-part series on the campaign from a lawyer, an ex-addict, a retired maths teacher, a social worker, a grandmother, a Māori warden and a former mayoral candidate to rid us of the scourge of pokie dens in our communities;
Like many of the problems we have in our natural environment, the near total absence of enforcement actions by our regulators results in harm that should not be tolerated by any government, particularly as in this case, the harm arises from questionably lawful activity;
The Avengers are winning, as are many other community groups fighting this scourge, but why has it come down to citizen volunteers being the first line of defence regarding regulatory enforcement?  
To make the issue a non-issue, the Coalition Government should simply ban pub/neighbourhood pokies altogether, as they are of no social benefit, aside from propping up sports clubs.  There must be 101 more socially responsible ways to do that.

        3.  Ban synthetic nitrogen 
      
Last week, the UN launched its global campaign on better nitrogen management, explaining:
From a climate change and water quality perspective, I’d far rather we remove agricultural emissions from our international obligations regards climate action (see my next entry), and instead ban the use of synthetic nitrogen.  It’s a two-birds with one-stone type policy.
As Mike Joy points out in this podcast (from 20 minutes in  - although the whole conversation is worth listening to), Lincoln University have demonstrated how to farm at higher profits with lesser environmental impacts.

        4.  Can the inclusion of agricultural emissions in the Zero Carbon Bill/Act
      
The Coalition government has effectively kicked the can down the road anyway, so why not just be pragmatically honest, and put the consideration of ruminant GHG emissions into the dustbin – forever?  That is the argument put forward by the authors in ‘Greenhouse Gases – A More Realistic View’.
Despite what camp we inhabit on the ‘A’ in the AGW debate, I believe we can all agree that global hazards arising from extreme weather events are immense, and the socioeconomic costs are exponentially rising.  We will have to meet these costs.
Whether or not the scientific arguments on either side of the mitigation debate are right or wrong, I think New Zealand would be best served by following the authors’ recommendations that:
For the simplest form of climate policy, we would count only carbon dioxide emissions; put a tax on carbon emitters (with no concessions for the Emissions Intensive, Trade Exposed (EITE) industries) and scrap the ETS.  Additionally, we would cost-recover public transport based on its emissions profile only. 
Provided we kept increasing capacity on PT to meet increased demand, with the above framework AND a ban on synthetic nitrogen, we’d likely meet our Paris commitments without the need for any other policy initiatives.

        5.  Can the subsidies on exotic plantings in the One Billion Trees policy   
      
Jane Clifton’s recent article in New Zealand Listener, ’Out on a limb: How to fix New Zealand's flawed forestry policy’ covers the trend of carbon-forest investors outbidding farmers for rural land, noting that: 
It is a good study in perverse incentives associated with cap and trade carbon policy, combined with an economic development initiative adding a sweetener on top.  
Given the disaster that ravaged Tolaga Bay, taxpayer subsidies on radiata pine have the potential to produce similar ecological harm to that arising from government subsidies on irrigation.  And like irrigation, it is near impossible for industry to mitigate for the effects of this inappropriate land-use.  Native bush is the only way to combat this type of future destruction.
Happily, the Coalition Government canned the irrigation subsidies, let’s hope they do the same for Pinus radiata.
