
# If You're A PR Professional, You Also Need To Be A Privacy Expert

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ben Billingsley**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesagencycouncil/2019/11/05/if-youre-a-pr-professional-you-also-need-to-be-a-privacy-expert/)

As PR professionals, we wear a number of hats — not just those of communicators, but also of media strategists, crisis control specialists and, as needed, client therapists. As if those aren’t plenty, these days we must don yet another hat in order to support and serve our clients’ best interests: that of the consumer privacy expert.As a practitioner with deep roots in both B2B and B2C technology, in some ways, my exposure to and appreciation for the nuances and importance of consumer privacy came early. Little did I know these exposures would become vital to serving my clients today. Now, nearly every industry represents a technological venture in which consumer data serves as currency, either literally or figuratively. That means no matter which industry you serve, it’s incumbent upon you to understand the intricacies of consumer privacy legislation and company policies, as well as the general and specific risks that your clients face — and to be able to properly advise them.

        Every Company Is A Data Company
      
Today, Google, Facebook and other online titans dominate the privacy-centric headlines, and for good reason. They have more consumer data than anyone, and their core business models are intricately tied to it. But make no mistake: Nearly every company today deals in personal data, in one way or another.
For example, companies in the healthcare space are stewards of the most sensitive personal data out there, and they’re governed by strict regulations as to how such data must be managed. At the same time, that doesn’t mean healthcare companies aren’t prone to breaches or errant employee behavior.
On the flip side, today’s retailers are no longer the simple merchants and purveyors of products that they once were. Even the staidest retail organizations are tapping into direct-to-consumer channels like never before, and that means one thing: collecting data and putting it to use for tailored marketing communications and product recommendations. Such efforts are table stakes when it comes to remaining competitive in today’s retail world, which means the collection, management and use of consumer data are also required.
Whether it’s for an auto manufacturer or a reelection campaign, consumer data is power. How that power is wielded has everything to do with brand equity and perception in the court of public opinion, which means it has everything to do with PR.

        Every PR Pro Needs To Understand The Risk Associated With Privacy
      
More than a year after news of Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica scandal broke, consumers are still worried. According to a survey released earlier this year, more than three-fourths (76.3%) of consumers are still concerned about their data when interacting with a brand. The survey also found that 85.8% of people are more aware of brands trying to target them, thanks to the online privacy scandals of the past year.
Consumer concern over their data privacy and security isn’t a passing fad or temporary blip tied to a big news story. It’s the new normal. And that means that data security and privacy have become a much greater component of brand equity. News around data breaches or misuse might represent a PR crisis for a company, but day-to-day data policies and management color public perception of a brand and its executive team.
It’s incumbent upon us as PR professionals to understand what kind of data our clients — all of our clients — are managing. For some clients, such as those in the financial services, the answer might be plutonium-grade data — the kind that, if it detonates, shakes the very foundation of the company. For other clients, their data risk might be minimal, but there’s still plenty of potential for things to get out of hand if care isn’t exercised.
As a matter of course, PR professionals must incorporate data and privacy risk assessments into their onboarding and client check-in protocols. Remember: This new privacy-aware world is a frightening one for companies and executives across all industries, and they’re looking for all the help they can get when it comes to safeguarding not only their data, but also their brands.
PR professionals need to be integral to the conversation when it comes to data security and privacy and stay abreast of evolving legislation and policies. If your relationship with clients is where it should be, your role isn’t limited to trying to contain the crisis when data breaches occur or news of misuse hits the media. Your role is to actively help shape the types of data philosophies and communications strategies among your clients that build, rather than break down, brand equity.
