
# FO summons Afghan envoy, conveys concern over security of Pakistan diplomatic staff

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:45:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/517057-FO-summons-Afghan-envoy-conveys-concern-security-Pak-diplomatic-staff)

ISLAMABAD (Dunya News) – Foreign Office on Sunday summoned Afghan Charge d Affairs to Foreign Office to convey serious concerns over the safety and security of the diplomatic personnel of the Embassy of Pakistan, Kabul, and its sub-missions.
In a statement, Foreign Office Spokesperson Dr. Muhammad Faisal said the Afghan Charge d Affairs was informed that the officers and staff of the Embassy of Pakistan were being harassed over the past two days.
They were obstructed on the road and the Embassy vehicles were also hit by motorcycles while going towards the Embassy.
Dr Faisal said the Charge d Affairs was asked to convey to the Afghan authorities to immediately investigate these security violations and harassment incidents, share report with the government of Pakistan in this regard, and ensure against recurrence of such incidents in future.
The spokesperson said the Afghan Charge d Affairs was reminded that being party to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities 1961, it is the responsibility of the government of Afghanistan to ensure safety, security and freedom of movement to all members of the mission.
Earlier today, diplomatic sources familiar with the matter told the media that Afghanistan intelligence service’s officials have been harassing Pakistani diplomats in Afghanistan.
Sources said that Afghan intelligence officials have been using abusive language with the Pakistani diplomats.
Meanwhile, Pakistan has taken up the matter with the Afghanistan’s Ministry for Foreign Affairs; however it appears that foreign ministry officials are helpless in front of Afghan secret agency as no action has been taken yet.
Afghan intelligence agency officials have made it a norm to block the route of Pakistani diplomats’ vehicles and follow the vehicles all the way from their homes to the embassy and from the embassy to the homes.
