
# The best Nintendo Switch deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Dominic Preston**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/game/best-nintendo-switch-deals-3664920/)

2018 was a great year for the Switch, with strong exclusives including Pokemon Let's Go and Super Smash Bros Ultimate coming to market. Nintendo’s gaming device - half portable, half home console - continues to blow away sales expectations, and it's showing no signs of slowing down in 2019. In fact, the release of the Switch Lite means Nintendo's line-up is stronger than ever! 
Still hugely popular and one of the most sought-after consoles at the moment, deals are tricky to find and some aren't quite as good as they first appear to be.
However, you can find some great Switch (and Switch Lite!) deals if you know where to look, both on the console itself and on the games you’ll want to play on it. Here at Tech Advisor, our experts are constantly scouring the web for the best Nintendo Switch prices, bundles and game discounts available, so if and when there are any you will find them right here on this page.
Below is our pick of the best Switch deals available right now. Switch deals are among the fastest-selling deals around, so if you see a deal that catches your eye it’s important not to hesitate because you’ll risk missing out.

        From: GAMEWas: £249.98Now: £229  (£20.98 off) View Deal
      
If you're a long-time fan of Luigi's Mansion and on the market for a handheld-only Switch Lite, this deal is a no-brainer. 

        From: Currys PC WorldWas: £238.99Now: £229  (£9.99 off) View Deal
      
If you're more of a Zelda fan, then this is the bundle to go for. 

        From: Currys PC WorldNow: £279View Deal
      
For the RRP of the Nintendo Switch, you'll get the 2019 variant of the console (with improved battery life) along with a copy of the hugely popular Tetris 99 and a 12-month subscription to Nintendo Switch Online.

        From: Currys PC WorldWas: £319.99Now: £299  (£20.99 off) View Deal
      
If you're a hardcore Mario Kart fan, you'll love this Mario Kart 8-themed bundle. Along with the 2019 variant of the Switch with improved battery life, you'll get a copy of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, a steering wheel controller accessory for your Joy-Cons and a nice carry case too. 

        From: GAMENow: £299.99View Deal
      
If you're a Zelda, you'll love this Switch + Zelda: Links Awakening bundle. It includes the updated 2019 version of the Nintendo Switch, which provides improved battery life and connectivity compared to the original, along with a copy of the Zelda remaster and a Zelda-themed cleaning cloth too. 

        From: 365 GamesWas: £198Now: £186  (£12 off) View Deal
      
If you've already got a large collection of Switch games and only want the Switch Lite console itself, this is the cheapest we've found the handheld. 

        From: Twitch PrimeWas: £17.99Now: FREE  (with Prime membership) View Deal
      
If  you have an Amazon Prime membership, you can get 12 months of Nintendo Switch Online for free, which would cost £17.99 otherwise.
There’s some bad news to get out of the way first: realistically, you probably shouldn’t get your hopes up for massive savings on the Switch. Blame the console’s popularity for that - people are still buying it in droves at full price, so retailers really don’t have much reason to slash prices in order to move stock.
Still, there are sure to be some discounts around if you know where to look. Not many stores tend to cut prices on the Switch itself - at least not by more than £10 or £20 - but keep an eye out for good bundles, which offer the console alongside a game or extra accessories. Switch games can cost £40 or more, so the saving overall if you buy a bundle can be much more than a £10 saving on the Switch on its own, for example.
And even if you don’t want all of the games in the bundle, you could always sell or trade-in those games afterwards. We have some tips on how and where to do that here.
There are plenty of brilliant Switch games available, but our pick of the best include Pokemon Let's Go! and Super Smash Bros Ultimate so deals on Switch bundles that include those are among the best. Check out our round-up of the best Nintendo Switch games for more.
For people who already own a Switch, you’ll find some discounts on individual games, too.
Accessories might be a better bet though - the pricing of extra controllers was one of the big gripes a lot of people had with the console at launch, so we've seen a offers trying to shift stock of controllers and other accessories including carry cases.
Also, remember that the Switch uses microSD cards for expandable storage, and USB-C for power - there are loads of great offers on memory cards and portable power banks, so we'd definitely recommend looking now if you're thinking of expanding your storage or grabbing a battery pack.
We're doing the hard work for you, so you can find the best Switch deals right here. Most major game retailers offer discounts from time-to-time, along with just about anywhere else that sells games.
Beyond Amazon, here are a few of the best places to check:
