
# Stress tests reveal structural weakness in Google Pixel 4

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:44:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/stress-tests-reveal-structural-weakness-google-pixel-4?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: JerryRigEverything
      
Professional phone destroyer JerryRigEverything has conducted his durability test on the Google Pixel 4, and the device did not impress the handheld demolition expert.
After chipping away a distressing amount of paint, Zack bends the phone and hears a snap, a sound he says he hasn't heard on a flagship phone in a long time. The Google Pixel 4 is shown with a crack running the width of the side of the phone.
Further bending produces three more cracks, laterally on each side, about a fifth of the way from each end of the device. By scraping away more of the flaky paint, Zack shows that the cracking coincides with antenna lines on the device. Because of the nature of the metal frame of a smartphone, device makers need to leave room to expose the antenna past the edge of the metal box. The lines you see on older iPhones and many smartphones today are often design treatments that hide these antenna breaks.
As Zack points out, most phone makers reinforce the frame at these break points so that bending the phone won't actually crack the frame. While the phone in Zack's video still has an active screen and OS, it is doubtful the radios would function properly after such damage.
Google's latest flagship aims to stay afloat
The Google Pixel 4 has a lot going for it with a 90Hz display and gesture controls. You should probably buy a case to protect the phone, especially if you want to keep it in your back pocket.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Unlimited Means Limited AT&T will pay $60 million after hiding data throttling The FTC has settled its case with AT&T for $60 million. AT&T was accused of failing to inform customers of its data throttling practice while marketing plans as "unlimited."
      

        It's Back This new Android Auto app fixes a problem Google created for newer phones Android Auto for phone screens has finally been released for users who lost access to Android Auto after the Android 10 update.
      

        A decent mid-ranger The Nokia 6.2 arrives in the U.S. with Android One for $249 The Nokia 6.2 with triple rear cameras and stock Android is now available in the U.S. for $249.
      

        It's easy to see why these Pixel 4 XL cases are 'clear' winners The Pixel 4 XL is a big, beautiful phone. Keep it protected without covering its design with these stellar clear cases.
      
