
# Global Village to be ‘World’s First 5G-Powered Entertainment Destination’

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:53:00+00:00**

Author: **Darragh Murphy**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/gaming-tech/422304-global-village-to-be-worlds-first-5g-powered-entertainment-destination)

There’s a very good reason why visitors around Dubai’s Global Village will be keeping connected better this season.Dubai-based telecom company du has revealed it will enable Global Village to be the ‘World’s First 5G-Powered Entertainment Destination’, bringing the fastest data speeds and low latency to all its visitors.du’s 5G network will also bring new possibilities to the multi-cultural park, including oppurtunities for 4K and 8K video streaming, advanced gaming capabilities, augmented reality (AR), and virtual reality (VR) experiences.“By introducing 5G capabilities to Global Village, the latest edition of this event will empower guests to achieve new possibilities and create endless memories as advanced connectivity transforms the Global Village experience dividend,” said chief technology officer of EITC Saleem AlBlooshi.“We are proud to build on our strategic relationship with Global Village and to be bringing high speeds, low latency, and new use cases to the people of the UAE.”The fifth generation network came to the Burj Khalifa earlier this year as well. The more places with 5G available, the better.It’s now easier than ever to head over to the family-friendly destination, as there’s a new app that offers cheaper rates on taxis to and from Global Village.Haven’t been down to Global Village yet? Its 24th season brings a host of new activities and attractions. Check out all you need to know about it right here.For more things to do around Dubai, click here.Dhs15. Open until Sat Apr 4, 2020. Sat-Wed 4pm-midnight, Thu-Fri 4pm-1am. Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Road, globalvillage.ae.
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
