
# People Furious At Parents Who Used Snapchat Filter To Trick Kids Into Thinking They See Spiders

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:01:17+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Connolly**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/viral/people-furious-at-parents-who-used-snapchat-filter-to-trick-kids-into-thinking-they-see-spiders/)


        Every now and then, Snapchat will throw out a brand new filter that sends the world into a tizzy and stops any and all productivity for at least a couple of days.
      
Most recently, the social media platform introduced the filter which drastically modified your appearance to emphasise male or female traits, resulting in one guy getting more than 1,600 Tinder matches when he pretended to be a woman and another guy transforming all of the Avengers.
Now though, we have something altogether more entertaining and – in my opinion – hilarious thanks to the introduction of the spider filter, which makes it look as though a giant tarantula is crawling across your face.
If you’re sat there thinking that doesn’t sound very funny at all, thank you very much, just imagine what happens when children are introduced into the mix.
Poor, unsuspecting children who probably just wanted to take a nice, normal selfie with their mum or dad but instead were subjected to the vision of a giant creepy crawly on their face. Like I said, hilarious.
The realistic filter has been taking over social media in the lead up to Halloween, with parents sharing their kid’s hilarious reactions to seeing the fake spiders crawling across their eyes and even mouths.
One proud uncle, Twitter user @Munyajiri, shared a video of his terrified nephew’s reaction after applying the Snapchat filter, with the young boy heard screaming in fear and crying as he attempts to shake the creepy crawly off.

        You can watch the video below:
      
