
# ATP Paris Masters | Rohan Bopanna and Denis Shapovalov crash out in quarter-finals

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:04:55+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/tennis/2019/nov/02/atp-paris-masters-rohan-bopanna-and-denis-shapovalov-crash-out-in-quarter-finals?utm_medium=rss)


        India’s Rohan Bopanna, along with his Canadian partner Denis Shapovalov, suffered a narrow defeat against the Russian pair of Karen Khachanov and Andrey Rublev and bowed out of the Paris Masters in the quarter-finals. The Indo-Canadian duo went down fighting 5-7, 7-6, 8-10 against the Russian duo.
      
India’s top doubles player Rohan Bopanna, along with his partner Denis Shapovalov of Canada, suffered a narrow defeat against the Russian pair of Karen Khachanov and Andrey Rublev and bowed out of the Paris Masters in the quarter-finals. On Friday evening, the Indo-Canadian duo went down fighting 5-7, 7-6, 8-10 against the Russian duo in a match that lasted over 80 minutes to exit the ATP Masters 1000 tournament.
Bopanna and Shapovalov fired 10 aces and committed three double faults throughout the course of the match. They saved four out of seven breakpoints and converted two of two but still emerged on the losing side.
Bopanna and Shapovalov had earlier defeated the pair of American Manuel Gonzalez and Argentine's Austin Krajicek in their Round of 16 match. Before that, in their round of 32 encounter, they had got the better of Benoit Paire and Fernando Verdasco.
The Russian duo of Khachanov and Rublev will now face the Slovakian-Croatian combination of Filip Polasek and Ivan Dodig for a place in the final.
