
# Victoria Beckham 'prices out fans' with Christmas gift guide that starts at £95

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:17:43+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/victoria-beckham-prices-out-fans-20829894)

Victoria Beckham has launched her Christmas gift guide but it is not for her fans that are working to a festive budget.
The 45-year-old former Spice Girl turned fashion designer has recommended presents for loved ones that come in under £500.
Unfortunately for many of her fans, the cheapest item on the list is one of her branded t-shirts which is priced at a rather steep £95.
There is no expense spared in Victoria's mind as she looks to offer her subscription clients the best she has on offer from her collections.
It is also an indication that she is trying to create a niche following who would be happy to part with £165 for mini keyring that had been designed by her.
Elsewhere on the list, which Posh has titled "Polished presents: little luxuries under £500," there is a lighter that is priced at an eye-watering £220.
The cheapest items are three branded T-shirts from her collection, of which one is emblazoned with "I can't concentrate in flats".
These are still priced at £95, so will burn a significant hole in your wallet.
 
Victoria's guide also includes "trinket-like jewellery, sophisticated separates and elegant evening wear to get you ready for the holiday season."
There is also a few items for those feeling a little more frivolous during the festive season, with a lambskin drawstring bag weighing in at £795 and a pair of sunglasses that will set you back £315.
Victoria has been on a commercial push recently as she looks to make her brand one of the must-haves this Christmas.
 
After Adele lost three stone, Victoria sent her a bundle of designer clothes in the hope that the 31-year-old singer would wear her outfits.
A source told The Sun: “Victoria is a huge fan of Adele and has always longed to see her in one of her designs.
"While Adele’s never addressed her own dress size, it would have been mortifying to send clothes that didn’t fit, so Victoria shied away from sending anything.
“Now Adele has shown off her trim new look and is rocking figure-hugging dresses, Posh is keen to get her dressed in one of her designs.
“To see Adele in one of her outfits would be a dream come true.”

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
