
# Moment Aldi firework backfires - and dad is hit in the head by wayward rocket

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:21:38+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/moment-aldi-firework-backfires-dad-17209432)

This is the shocking moment a firework display backfired - and a dad was hit on the NECK by a wayward rocket.
Video shows a pack of fireworks - including a Roman candle, wheel, mines, aerial shot tubes, rockets, multi-shots, and fountains - going off in a family's garden.
Dad-of-two Neil Sjollema, 39, can be seen backing away before the display goes off with a bang.
One rocket then flies directly at building site manager Neil as he turns round to watch, striking the right side of his neck.
Children can be heard laughing with delight as a woman shouts: "Oh my god! S**t! Kids, I think you better get in! Where are the kids?!"
Neil then stands in the door as the group of 10 - six children and four adults - watch the firework display gone wrong.
As it ends, everybody laughs with relief.
 
Neil, from Shenley, Herts., said: "That was pretty funny looking back, there was an initial panic but it made for a fun night!
"I had some friends and their kids over to have a mini firework display in the garden, after buying a set [from Aldi].
"The whole thing literally went off with a bang - and then one of the rockets hit me!
"It didn't hurt too much actually, as I think I was full of adrenaline and wanted to make sure the kids were safe.
"But it's left me with a tiny mark on my neck! A little souvenir, if you like!"
He added: "It won't stop me trying again next year!"
 
Neil bought the 16 pack of Wow Fireworks earlier in the day from supermarket Aldi.
The box says: " This 16 pack of fireworks does exactly what it says on the tin…wow! Featuring a variety of amazing effects including fountains, rockets, multi-shots and mines, these fireworks will certainly impress."
It also warns: "Always read firework instructions carefully before use."
The incident occurred at around 9pm on November 2.
