
# Pret's Christmas sandwiches are back - with some very intriguing new flavours

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Molly Holt, https://www.facebook.com/mollyjaholt/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/prets-christmas-sandwiches-back-very-20808458)

Christmas sandwich season is officially here, and whether you're a brie and cranberry person or vow to only eat festive sandwiches filled with turkey, there's no shortage of options to pick from.
Sandwich giants Pret A Manager have just announced that their festive sandwich range is now on sale, launching in stores all across the country today (Tuesday 5 November).
As well as plenty of meaty options with all the trimmings, Pret has also announced a gluten-free version, as well as bringing back its fully vegan sandwich from last year.
Naturally, the classic Christmas lunch sandwich is back for another year, featuring thick slices of free-range turkey, paired with port & orange cranberry sauce, herby pork stuffing, a dab of mayo, baby spinach and the star of the show: crispy onions.
New for this year is Pret’s Christmas Lunch on gluten-free bread, which uses the brand's famous thick, seeded bread which was introduced by the company in April, paired with all the same above ingredients, for a full traditional turkey dinner in lunch form.
As for the veggies, there's also a vegetarian version of Pret’s Christmas lunch, which sees roasted butternut squash sprinkled with spicy rocket and a nutty Christmas pesto - all finished off with a spoonful of yoghurt mayo, crispy onions and caramelised pecans.
 
Completing the sandwich range is a vegan option, Very Merry Christmas Lunch, back for a second year after its soaring success on social media.
Comprising of grilled carrots, crispy onions and baby leaf spinach, alongside Pret’s festive vegan stuffing and port and orange cranberry sauce, the sandwich is then finished with caramelised pecans for an added Christmas crunch.
Pret's sandwich launch coincides with Starbucks', who have also officially launched their red cups and Christmas menu today, after Costa announced theirs last week.
Pret’s Global Head of Food Innovation, Hannah Dolan, said; “This year, our team of Food Innovation Managers have gone to extra lengths to ensure the ingredients that make up our menu of Christmas items are the most delicious they’ve ever been.
“From tasting stuffing at 7am on the hottest day in July, to using a well-loved family tiffin recipe for one of our sweet treats, we’ve been dedicated to getting Christmas right, and can’t wait to hear what the nation thinks of the food.”
