
# How Chelsea could line up if Frank Lampard is allowed £150m January transfer spend

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:57:46+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/how-chelsea-could-line-up-20815227)

Chelsea fans could be in for an exciting January if the club's transfer ban is lifted.
The Blues’ appeal against their two-window suspension will be heard by The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) on November 20.
If their argument is successful, Stamford Bridge bosses look set to back Frank Lampard in the mid-season sales to the tune of £150m.
An impressive start to the campaign, despite their limited summer activity, has ramped up expectations.
Lampard has suggested he is open to improving his squad when opportunities arise.
He said: “At Chelsea we will always look to improve in windows, if we’re allowed to, and if the players we might look at are better or we feel are adding to the squad.
“Of course I’m interested because it’s obviously going to affect potentially what we can do in January or not.”
According to The Sun, Chelsea plan to spend the money burning a hole in their pocket on three players.
Leicester full-back Ben Chilwell, Crystal Palace winger Wilfried Zaha and RB Leipzig striker Timo Werner top of the list.
If the transfer ban is lifted and the trio arrive at Stamford Bridge in January, Chelsea would boast a fearsome squad brimming with options.
But what sort of starting XI could Lampard name including all three new boys?
Kepa Arrizabalaga - The goalkeeper has cemented his place as one of the Premier League’s best between the sticks.
Cesar Azpilicueta - The Spaniard is under huge pressure from Reece James at right-back but should hold onto his spot for the time being.
Fikayo Tomori - The 21-year-old has been a revelation at the back and his place in the team is nailed on.
Antonio Rudiger - It’s been a frustrating campaign for the Germany international but he should replace Kurt Zouma when he returns to fitness.
Ben Chilwell - Emerson Palmieri and Marcos Alonso have battled it out at left-back for the past two seasons to mixed success. Leicester would be reluctant to lose Chilwell, who would cost in excess of £40m.
Jorginho - Lampard has got the best out of the Italy international, who was heavily criticised by fans under Maurizio Sarri.
N’Golo Kante - It’s been an injury-hit season for the World Cup winner but he remains one of the finest midfielders on the planet.
Wilfried Zaha - Chelsea need to plan for the long term on the wing due to Willian and Pedro being past 30. The Crystal Palace flyer would provide a lethal threat from the wing.
Callum Hudson-Odoi - The 18-year-old would likely get the spot on the opposite flank ahead of Christian Pulisic, despite the USA international's improving form. Lampard is a big fan of Hudson-Odoi, and will be keen to use him having fought hard to convince him to stay put.
Timo Werner - A deal for the RB Leipzig striker would surely require a switch to 4-4-2 to ensure Tammy Abraham remains in the team. A result of the switch would likely see Mason Mount drop out if everyone is fit despite being one of Chelsea’s star men this term. Werner is a lethal finisher, however.
Tammy Abraham - Third on the Premier League top scorers list with nine goals from 11 games, the England international is enjoying a dream campaign. He would be under pressure to continue delivering the goods if Werner arrives, which could keep him on his toes.
