
# TUI resumes Sharm el Sheikh holidays for 2020 and they go on sale this week

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:01:26+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/asia-middle-east/tui-resumes-sharm-el-sheikh-20807054)

TUI has announced it will be resuming its Sharm el Sheikh holiday packages and flight routes or 2020.
The news comes as travel restrictions have been lifted from the UK for the first time in four years.
The travel firm has said that due to customer demand it will be re-launching flights and hotels in the formerly popular hotspot.
From February 2020, flights and packages will be available based on departures from London Gatwick, Manchester and Birmingham. TUI will also launch packages from Doncaster Sheffield and Bristol airports in May 2020.
Holidaymakers will be able to book the Sharm el Sheikh offerings from Thursday 7th November including the TUI website.
So far the firm has said the holidays will include resorts such as the TUI Magic Life Sharm El Sheikh and Reef Oasis Blue Bay, although there are more hotels expected to be added to the line-up.
 
TUI isn't the only travel firm to be bringing back its routes and holidays to the Egyptian hotspot following the lift on restrictions.
Red Sea Holidays was the first firm to re-launch flights to Sharm el Sheikh , just hours after the ban was lifted, with departures from December 2019.
A number of other UK firms including easyJet have also said they are considering their options now that the destination is re-opening to British tourists.
The FCO had first placed a ban on flights to Sharm el Sheikh in 2015, after the bombing of a Russian airliner left 224 people dead.
 
In October 2019 the FCO explained that it no longer advises "against all but essential travel by air to/from Sharm el Sheikh", and updated its Egypt travel advice .
It says that an estimated 415,000 British nationals visited Egypt in 2018, with most visits being trouble free.
However, the authority still warns Brits that 'terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Egypt'.
As part of its travel advice it explains: "Terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Egypt. Although most attacks occur in North Sinai, there is a risk of terrorist attacks across the country.
"Attacks could be indiscriminate, affecting Egyptian security forces, religious sites, large public gatherings and places visited by foreigners.
"There is a heightened threat of terrorist attacks in or around religious sites and during religious festivals, such as the month of Ramadan and the Christmas period (including Coptic Christmas), when terrorist groups have sometimes called for attacks.
"Terrorist attacks have occurred over local holiday weekends. Terrorists have attacked tourists in Egypt in the past. There is a heightened threat of terrorist attacks targeting Coptic Christians from extremists linked to Daesh-Sinai in Egypt."
