
# Mum who ballooned to size 22 during unhappy marriage sheds five stone after divorce

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Hollie Bone**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/mum-who-ballooned-size-22-20785204)

A mum who ballooned to a size 22 during her unhappy marriage is now celebrating losing five stone – and divorcing after 16 years.
Lou Bentley, 36, has marked the huge change in her life by showing off her size 10 figure and revealing how she slimmed down from 14st 7lb to 9st 10lb.
She said: “I think I’m the best I have ever been. I feel happier than ever and look better than I did when I was younger.”
Lou, from Melton Mowbray, Leics, who is 5ft 3in, had struggled with her weight in her teens and suffered bulimia, losing then regaining four stone.
But it was after marrying her soldier ex that her cravings for fast food ran out of control.
 
Leaving her family behind to live on a base in Germany was one blow.
Having to raise their kids alone while he served in Afghanistan was another.
By the time of her third child, she was size 22, lonely and depressed. But as her marriage faltered in 2010, she beat her craving for chips and became hooked on exercise instead, installing a home gym and using a Wii Fit.
“I was sick of not being able to look in the mirror,” she said. “I never did my hair or make-up.”
She started counting ­calories, having an egg on wholemeal bread for breakfast, chicken and rice for lunch and lean steak with sweet potatoes for dinner instead of chips.
“Now I take so much more pride in my appearance, says Lou, a part-time supervisor for a cleaning firm.
“I get up at 6am and do 30 minutes on the treadmill then 45 minutes of weights.”
Her divorce was finalised amicably last week and her ­children treated her to a special cake.
While she has a new relationship, she says she doesn’t need a man to be happy.
“I’m very independent and I do feel really proud of myself,” she said.
