
# General election: Here are the West Midlands MPs who have stood down

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:52:24+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Walker, https://www.facebook.com/JonWalkerPolitics?pnref=story**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/here-west-midlands-mps-who-17206520)

Most West Midlands MPs are fighting to keep their seats in this general election (and officially, we should now call then candidates rather than MPs). They won't know if they are successful until voting takes place on December 12.
But for some of politicians, this is definitely the end of their time in Parliament. That's because they've decided not to stand again.
As you'd expect, many of the former MPs who've chosen to quit have been in politics for a long time. They may have chosen to retire simply because they've reached an age where they deserve a rest.
One or two are quitting sooner than they probably hoped.
Dame Caroline Spelman (Con Meriden) . A former Conservative Chair and Environment secretary, she said she was leaving partly because of "the intensity of abuse arising out of Brexit".
Margot James (Con Stourbridge) . She was a stripped of the Conservative whip - which means she was thrown out of the Parliamentary Party, and became an independent MP - for opposing the Government on a Brexit vote. She backed a law designed to make a "no-deal" Brexit impossible, although she later voted in favour of Boris Johnson's plan to leave the UK with a deal.
She was then given the whip back, making her a Conservative MP again. However, she chose to stand down after it became clear that some Conservative activists in her local constituency association didn't want her to be the Conservative candidate.
Jeremy Lefroy (Con Stafford) , who said he could not commit to being an MP for another five years. He has been a consistent opponent of Brexit.
Geoffrey Robinson (Coventry North West) . A businessman and former Cabinet Minister, Mr Robinson is 81.
 
Jim Cunningham (Coventry South) . The former MP is 78. Before politics he was a Rolls Royce engineer. Labour's new candidate for Coventry South, Zarah Sultana, once said she will celebrate when Tony Blair dies, adding: "the sooner they meet their maker, the better".
Adrian Bailey (Lab West Bromwich West) is 73.
