
# Saracens salary cap scandal: 'I don't think the trophies should stand' - Danny Care

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:18:30+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BBC Sport](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/50329516)


        Saracens should lose their trophies after breaching salary cap rules, says England scrum-half Danny Care.
      
Saracens face being docked 35 points and fined £5.36m after an inquiry into business dealings between owner Nigel Wray and some of the club's players.
Premiership Rugby say Saracens broke the salary cap for three seasons.
"If you've been caught cheating and lifted the trophy at the end of the season, that's tainted. I don't think the medals should stand," said Care.
"I don't think the trophies should stand. I think they should be whipped away from them. If they have been caught cheating, and that's what we're going on, they don't deserve to have them."
Sarries have won four Premiership titles in the past five campaigns, as well as three European crowns.
Care told the BBC's Rugby Union Weekly podcast that Saracens, who have a host of star names from England as well as Wales' Liam Williams, Scotland's Sean Maitland and South Africa's Vincent Koch on their books, had long been suspected of acting outside the rules.
"I hopefully speak for every other player in the Premiership, I know for everyone at Harlequins, that everyone kind of knows this has been going on for years and no-one's ever been able to say anything about it," said Care.
"In a one-on-one game we know we can challenge them, we know we can beat them on our day, but when you've got that much class, that much international experience, throughout the whole season you know in the long run you're going up against a team that, let's face it, have been cheating."
Care was a member of the Harlequins side that were crowned Premiership champions in 2012, an achievement he says was "one of the greatest moments of my life".
But he believes people within the sport may have had their livelihoods affected because of the dominance of Saracens, who have won the title four times since 2015 and have also lifted the European Champions Cup three times.
"People lose their jobs because they're not performing well enough because everyone's saying 'why aren't we as good as Saracens?'," the 32-year-old, who was not part of England's squad at the recent World Cup, added.
"It comes out that that's happening because they're cheating. Well it's not just the here and now, it affects people's lives, it affects people's families, and that's why so many players have been so annoyed over the years that it has been swept under the carpet.
"There was another one previously that got brushed aside, this one has finally come out and finally some justice is being done, although £5m to Nigel Wray won't even touch the sides."
