
# Best Holiday Presents For Men Under $50

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Barry Samaha**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/barrysamaha/2019/11/01/gift-guide-2019-best-holiday-presents-for-men-under-50/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2813290342&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

Large boxes tied with a shiny ribbon can be an exciting visual, but as many know, the best gifts come in small packages. Sometimes, they come with tiny price tags, too. From a nice wallet to Bluetooth speakers, there are countless presents that can stir a swell of emotion without breaking the bank. 
Need help sourcing these great presents? Here are some of the best gifts for men under $50.  
The latest film about the Joker, starring Joaquin Phoenix, may be riding high at the box office but he will never be Batman. The Dark Knight is more than a superhero. He’s been delighting (and vexing) fans for 80 years. This tie clip may not work on Batman’s utility belt, but a man’s inner Bruce Wayne will surely appreciate it.

        SHOP NOW
      
From the citrus burst of orange blossom to soft notes of rose, lily, neroli and ylang-ylang, Kiehl's Original Musk is scent that perseveres. Indeed, it has been around since 1851, lasting longer than most perfumes and colognes. This is because it relies on simplicity, both in its mixture and the bottle design, to attract consumers. Regardless of one’s taste, rest assured that it will appeal to all.       

        SHOP NOW
      
Whether it is a small gathering of friends with a cheese tray and a bottle of wine or full-blown backyard fiesta, no event is complete without music. And the best way to get your playlist heard is with portable speakers. Every host needs one, and if you’re looking for a great gift option, this blue Mino Bluetooth Speaker by Lexon will surely get the party started. 

        SHOP NOW
      
“Too much of anything is bad, but too much good whiskey is barely enough,” Mark Twain once quipped. And many men agree with him, including writer Aaron Goldfarb. The journalist, who has primarily covered the booze beat, authored a book that surely has Twain smiling down from that big saloon in the sky. Hacking Whiskey offers tips, tricks and recipes for creating the tastiest whiskey-based cocktails. 

        SHOP NOW
      
Fanny packs were big in the 1980s, but fell out of favor in the following decades. Well, now they’re back, and without a smidgen of irony. Many high-end fashion labels have shown them proudly on their runway presentations in Milan and Paris. But if you’re looking for a practical option to gift, this hip pack by Herschel Supply Co. is sleek and stylish.

        SHOP NOW
      
Men don’t typically have a lot of accessories. Aside from shoes, the wallet is arguably the most practical one. It holds cash, cards, IDs and just about everything a man needs to go about his day. So, make sure to gift him one that he can proudly show off at the register. 

        SHOP NOW
      
Sneakers are no longer just a simple style of footwear; they have now become a subculture. Blockbuster lines form outside stores for the latest drop, and they’ve even sold at auctions for upwards of seven figures. Chronicling all this is this 650-page tome that is filled with facts, observations and insider knowledge about a craze that doesn’t appear to be subsiding anytime soon.  

        SHOP NOW
      
