
# Rape survivor chose to speak to her attacker instead of pressing charges

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:22:12+00:00**

Author: **Bradley Jolly, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/bradley-jolly/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/rape-survivor-chose-speak-attacker-20834870)

A rape survivor told why she chose not to press charges against her attacker - and instead just wanted to talk to him.
Marlee Liss, 24, claims the rapist subjected her to the degrading ordeal in his home after meeting on a night out.
She bravely reported it to police but felt she was asked "insensitive" questions, like how much she’d drunk and what she was wearing.
The student's mental health suffered and she became suicidal one year on from the attack.
Though police were investigating, Marlee, then just 21, just wanted to confront her attacker.
"I had never even considered looking into even trying to make it happen," the Ryerson University student said.
 
And she learned about Forgiveness Project, a UK-based organisation, which works with both prisoners and victims to heal after trauma.
It put her in touch with Jeff Carolin, a Toronto lawyer who has worked on a number of sexual assault cases, usually representing the accused.
They worked together to pursue restorative justice which, as Buzzfeed News explains, is used to help those who have done harm and those who have been harmed to meet and hash out a resolution.
The point is to prevent further harm in the community, have the voices of everyone heard, and provide whatever healing is possible. 
Marlee, of Toronto, said: "Honestly getting the phone call that it was happening was one of the most beautiful, miraculous, emotional experiences of my life.
"Just the fact that my voice was actually heard within the system, for the first time, and given importance."
Legal teams reached out to charities and in September, more than three years after the rape, the woman came face-to-face with her attacker.
Accompanied by her mum, her sister, her lawyer and a charity representative, Marlee asked the man why he raped her.
"I am so sorry for the harm I caused and I wish I could take it back," he said.
His words came as a large support to Marlee, who broke down.
She said: "I didn’t know I needed to hear that she said.
"When he said that, I just broke down in tears and it just felt like a huge, huge relief.
"I want to challenge the assumption that all survivors will feel healing by having their assailants incarcerated."
And, at Marlee's will, the attacker has not been jailed for the offence.

        
          The Samaritans is available 24/7 if you need to talk. You can contact them for free by calling 116 123, email   jo@samaritans.org   or head to the  website  to find your nearest branch. You matter.
        
      
