
# Arsenal set to sell Granit Xhaka in January transfer window after bitter fall-out with fans

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-set-sell-granit-xhaka-20835793)

Arsenal will try to offload Granit Xhaka in January.
Switzerland midfielder Xhaka fears his Arsenal career is now over after being stripped of the captaincy following his bitter fall-out with Gunners fans.
It now seems certain that he will be sold in the next transfer window with Germany the most likely destination.
Xhaka was a £34m signing from Borussia Monchengladbach in 2016 and is still highly-regarded in the Bundesliga.
The 27-year-old who told Arsenal fans to “f*** off” after being jeered when he was substituted against Crystal Palace last month, is concerned about his Euro 2020 prospects if he is left facing a long period on the sidelines.
Even though Xhaka was hoping there was a way back, the Arsenal midfielder now accepts his time is likely to be up.
Former boss Arsene Wenger believes Unai Emery was right to strip Xhaka of the captaincy.
“As a manager you have to face these kind of decisions,” said Wenger, who is out of the running to be Bayern Munich boss following talks with the German giants.
“We always face the unexpected as a manager, you have to make quick decisions.
“I think Arsenal Football Club is respected all over the world because it’s built on values and everyone has to respect these values and the manager has to get them to be respected.
“Arsenal, for me, had always had a touch of class. Football today in the modern era has a huge responsibility on the way we behave, the way were are examples.
“Arsenal are part of the big clubs in the world and we have to show that.”
Meanwhile, Sokratis says Arsenal have to beat Leicester tomorrow to keep themselves in the Champions League race.
Defeat at the King Power Stadium could see Emery’s side fall nine points off the pace for a top-four place.
And the Greek defender said: “It’s a very big game, it’s a game we have to win.
“Of course we have a lot of games in front of us and if we see last year, we were there but in the last seven games we didn’t win one.
“We need to be consistent all year, not only one month. Leicester is in a very good moment, they’re a very hungry team. You can see this. We have to be ready to beat them.”
