
# Turkey could be ready to Launch National Digital Currency in 2020

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:13:52+00:00**

Author: **Osato Avan-Nomayo**

Original: [BTC Manager](https://btcmanager.com/turkey-national-digital-currency-in-2020/)


        Turkey’s central bank is reportedly looking to finalize testing protocols for its proposed national digital currency. With economic struggles worsening in the country, the move might signal an attempt by the government to gain a foothold in the emerging digital landscape. Meanwhile, bitcoin adoption continues to grow in the country exceeding average ownership statistics in other countries in Europe.
      
According to the Asia Times, Turkey’s central bank is set to finish final testing on a digital lira currency by 2020. These testing protocols will also reportedly include the finetuning of instant payment gateways that will utilize the digital currency.
The move by the Turkish government is part of plans to stabilize the economy. Earlier in the year, the President Erdogan administration included the digital lira plans in its four-year economic recovery plan.
An excerpt from a document released by Resmi Gazete — Turkey’s official national publication reads:
When launched, the digital lira will be entering a financial landscape already dominated by forex and bitcoin. As previously reported by BTCManager, bitcoin has in recent times become almost as popular as foreign currencies.
With forex becoming increasingly difficult to obtain, many citizens have looked to bitcoin as a way of preserving their wealth from the continued fall of the country’s fiat. Turkey also reportedly leads bitcoin ownership in Europe according to a couple of industry surveys.
The announcement of digital currency trials puts Turkey into the league of nations reportedly looking to launch their central bank digital currencies (CBDCs). Commenting on the matter, crypto commentator Rhythm posted a tweet on Tuesday, declaring:
