
# Dazed And Confused. Why Do So Many Investors Hate The Stock Market?

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Garth Friesen**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/garthfriesen/2019/11/03/dazed-and-confused-why-do-so-many-investors-hate-the-stock-market/)

Markets have an uncanny knack for moving in the direction that hurts the most people. Right now, that direction appears to be higher. Aside from a few minor setbacks, the equity market has marched higher to a new record after new record, leaving many investors bewildered over the move. Yet, even after a 23% total return year to date, the stock market remains unloved. Why is the rally so hard to embrace? First, the dramatic flattening of the Treasury curve over the summer briefly sent the slope of the government bond curve into negative territory. Historically, such a move has successfully forecast a recession in the subsequent 6-18 months. The apparent certainty of a recession gave pause to allocators; why would you want to own equities if the economy was on the verge of negative growth?
Nothing is certain when it comes to forecasting. It is quite possible that the Fed’s massive $4 trillion QE program distorted long term rates to the point where the predictive power of an inverted yield curve has been lost. According to a methodology pioneered by three New York Fed economists, the “term premium” in 10-year bonds is 140 bp lower than the last time the curve was inverted in 2006. The Fed’s bond-buying is most likely responsible for this difference.
Second, the flattening yield curve took place amidst a tremendous drop in interest rates across the curve. In 2018, the Fed was aggressively raising short term rates. In 2019, the Fed was easing policy. The bond curve switched from pricing in 100 bp of hikes to almost 100 bp of cuts as part of what FOMC Chairman Powell called a “mid-cycle adjustment.”
Lower rates are having an impact on the economy. The housing sector, which makes up a large part of GDP, has responded well to the drop in mortgage rates. The strength in housing is offsetting the weakness in the manufacturing industry, which is suffering from the trade dispute between China and the US. Those tensions are subsiding for now, and, according to the latest PMI data, global manufacturing appears to be stabilizing. The low, or even negative, inflation-adjusted bond yields are driving investors into the equity market and other risky asset classes.
The shape of the yield curve does tell us something about the expected direction of monetary policy, but the level of interest rates is also critical. It is easy to look at history and jump to conclusions that the future will be similar the past. Yes, the current expansion is the longest on record. Yes, corporate earnings and profit margins got a one-time boost from a change in tax policy. Yes, the global economy is slowing and has slowed down US economic activity with it.
This expansion may be “long in the tooth” in terms of duration, but it is also one of the weakest when it comes to cumulative economic growth. There are few signs of inflation, little worry of excessive credit demand, and the labor market is holding steady. Data last week supports the view that the economy is slowing, but is by no means weak. GDP data released last week showed Q3 growth beat expectations, printing at 1.9% vs an expectation of 1.6%. Also, Friday’s employment numbers confirmed that at a 3.6% unemployment, a lack of jobs is currently not a concern.
Most equity investors' fears are coming from external factors. Those factors, such as trade wars, a slowdown in China, and Brexit uncertainty, are clearly worrisome but are no longer “news” for the market. Investors have pulled billions of dollars out of the stock market this year, and many are waiting for a significant pullback in prices. Unlike many other market peaks, investors are not “irrationally exuberant.” They are bearish and are not participating in the rally. At least for now, the “pain trade” for the equity market is higher.
