
# Liam Payne’s Mother Isn’t Overjoyed With His Racy Hugo Boss Campaign Photos

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Izza Sofia**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407220/Liam-Payne-s-Mother-Isn-t-Overjoyed-With-His-Racy-Hugo-Boss-Campaign-Photos/)

Liam Payne “stripped that down” for his latest capsule collection with Hugo Boss. Shot by photographers Mert Alas and Marcus Piggott, the steamy campaign saw the singer posing with model Stella Maxwell, wearing barely any clothes. The ad was released alongside Payne’s interview with GQ Hype magazine. In the accompanying interview, Payne told the publication that his mother “wasn’t best pleased” with his “really raunchy” photoshoot. Although he felt lucky to land a deal with Hugo Boss, he didn’t expect that he had basically signed up for his “first-ever nude photoshoot.” Payne wasn’t too familiar with the amount of nudity in Alas and Piggott’s work, therefore he thought the whole shoot “got very raunchy very quickly.” Payne was told to take off all his clothes in a room full of five or six people. He had a “hell of a lot of tequila” to shoot some racy scenes, and after it was over he thought to himself that he had just “shot soft-core porn.” Despite the fun shoot, his mother wasn’t too pleased about one of the photos, and gave him a “clip round the ear” after being shown the provocative shot taken with Maxwell. Advertisement Advertisement One photo sees him and Maxwell lying topless on the bed with the woman resting her front on his torso. Here, Maxwell is dressed in Hugo Boss underwear while Payne wears nothing at all. Other shots envision the singer standing on a bed, wearing the brand’s boxer briefs with the Hugo logo plastered across his waistband.
[via Insider, opening image via Hugo]
