
# Are you happy with the Pixel 4?

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:46:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/are-you-happy-pixel-4?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Joe Maring / Android Central
      
With each Pixel release, it seems like Google is met with some sort of criticism. The Pixel 2 XL had a trash display, the Pixel 3 series had bad RAM management, and the Pixel 4 has become notorious for poor battery life.
A lot of Pixel 4 reviews have shed the phone in a negative light, but taking a gander through our AC forums, many of our members are quite happy with the phone.
Here's what some of them have to say.
What about you? Are you happy with the Pixel 4?

        Join the conversation in the forums!
      
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        5G is coming Have you been able to use a 5G network yet? 5G is slowly making its way across the U.S. Have you been among the lucky few to use it yet?
      

        THE FIRST LOOK Here's your first look at the upcoming Samsung Galaxy A51 Leaked CAD-based renders of the Samsung Galaxy A51 reveal the company's next mid-range phone will have an Infinity-O display and an L-shaped quad-camera array at the back.
      

        Grab the app on all the things Be prepared with these links to all the Disney+ apps we could find! Disney+ is nearly here but none of the apps are! We have a list of all the places you are going to be able to get it here.
      

        It's easy to see why these Pixel 4 XL cases are 'clear' winners The Pixel 4 XL is a big, beautiful phone. Keep it protected without covering its design with these stellar clear cases.
      
