
# ‘Who bought Pegasus, who allowed snooping?’

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Agencies**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/news/india/who-bought-pegasus-who-allowed-snooping/articleshow/71872512.cms)

Congress ups the ante against Centre, alleges that ‘dishonest’ government is refusing to answer key questions on surveillanceThe Congress on Saturday upped the ante against the Narendra Modi government on recent accusations of public surveillance through WhatsApp questioning which department purchased the Israeli software Pegasus and who gave allowed it to spy on journalists and activists. Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi, addressing party leaders at a meeting on Saturday, criticised the government over the WhatsApp snooping row, saying it was not only "illegal and unconstitutional" but also "shameful". Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala attacked the government saying that in May, WhatsApp had "quickly resolved a security issue and notified relevant Indian and international government authorities". "A dishonest BJP Govt refuses to answer relevant questions on #WhatsAppSpygate - 1. Who in GOI purchased & deployed the illegal spyware? 2. Who-PM or NSA-authorised the purchase? 3. If Facebook had informed GOI in May 2019, why was govt mum? 4. What action against the guilty," he said in a tweet. "Israeli NSO sold spyware Pegasus only to governments. Before WhatsApp answers, our government must tell us: Which wing of government purchased Pegasus, at what price, who handled its operations, who gave instructions for snooping and which other platforms are compromised." Sibal's remarks came a day after the government, under fire from journalists and the Opposition, demanded a clarification from WhatsApp and questioned why it had kept the information about spying on Indian citizens hidden from the Indian authorities despite recent meetings with the company CEO. Following the disclosure by WhatsApp, the Centre has asked the messaging platform to explain the matter. According to sources, the company has been asked to submit its response by November 4. My phone tapped, take care of issue: Mamata Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday alleged that she had evidence that the Centre was tapping her phones and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “take care” of the issue. She questioned, “What kind of independence is this, where you cannot talk freely? According to the Constitution, we have independence. Nothing is safe -- neither land phone nor mobile and not even WhatsApp. If we talk, it is recorded.” She also said, “It is a fact that Israel NSO has supplied this machine to the government. My phone was tapped and I know about it as I have the evidence with me.” Asked if she will contact the Centre on this issue, the CM said, “What is the point in contacting the Central government when they have done it. What is the use of informing them!” However, Mamata said she will request the Prime Minister to look into the matter. - JAYATRI NAG
