
# ‘I am proud of what I have done in Damayanthi’

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/entertainment/south-masala/i-am-proud-of-what-i-have-done-in-damayanthi/articleshow/71928027.cms)

Every new film of Radhika Kumaraswamy marks itself as a comeback for the actress. This time, she has not one but two films making their way to the audience. Her home production Bhairadevi and Damayanthi are both supernatural thrillers. She reveals the details in a tete-a-tete with S Shyam PrasadQ. You have made it a habit to make each film a comeback. Why do you take such long gaps between films? A. It is not a deliberate plan. I just do not like most of the scripts that come my way. I do not want to do the same kind of roles again and again. Stories that I really like and films I want to be part of are very few. No normal story interests me. When Srijai came to me with the story of Bhairadevi, I liked it. The protagonist is an Aghori. No heroine has done the role of an Aghori before. I had to do it. It is not just a supernatural thriller. At heart it is a commercial family drama. I decided to produce it under my own banner. There is a good cast including Rangayana Raghu, Anu Mukherjee, Ravishankar, Skanda and others that I am proud to be part of. When Bhairadevi had already begun, Navarasan came to me with Damayanthi. Even before listening to the script I said no as I felt the subjects would be similar. But when I heard it, I realised that they are two completely different kind of stories. When we release the trailers later, you will realise. Navarasan was adamant that I play the role of Damayanthi. I relented. Q. Why did he feel you would suit that role? A: I had a photo shoot done and in one of them, I posed in a black saree. He had seen that and that was enough for him to be convinced that I would be Damayanthi. I asked him to wait for six months so that I could complete Bhairadevi first. Plans changed subsequently and shooting for Damayanthi is now complete. Some shooting for Bhairadevi is still pending. Since Bhairadevi is being made in three languages, it is taking more time. As it is my home production, I could be flexible about it. Q: How different are the two films? A: If you look at all the romance films being made, you can just categorise them as love stories. But each one will be so different from one another. Supernatural elements do not mean they are similar films. Damayanthi is about a daughter fulfilling her father's dream and promise to the people. In Bhairadevi, I do action for the first time in my career. The trailers will reveal how different the two are. I have been more popular in Anna-Tangi, Tavarige Baa Tangi roles. So Navarasan finding me suitable for Damayanthi after seeing me in a new getup was special. I am proud of myself doing this film. The getup is so different from the routine and I have to deliver dialogues that are not in regular films. Q. You had plans to produce films for newcomers and build a production house. What is the development? A. After Srijai narrated the story of Bhairadevi, I asked him who he had in mind for the lead role. He was stunned. He said he had developed the story with me in mind. I have always wanted to produce films for other actors and newcomers. I made Lucky and after that the plan was to make one-two films a year. But all the stories coming my way are from makes who want me to act. I will produce films and not just for me. Q. Any particular plans beyond these two films? A: I have offers from other banners too. There will be an announcement shortly. I want to next produce a film that has comedy, dance and romance. That would be quite different from these two films.
