
# 'I can't be f***ed' - Mum-of-six sends kids to school without having a bath because it 'won't kill them'

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:53:03+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Lorraine King, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/i-cant-fed-mum-six-17218591)

Mum has admitted sending her six 'stinky' kids to school - because skipping a bath 'won't kill them'.
Single parent Constance Hall, an Australian blogger, reveals the shortcuts she takes to save time.
The mum-of-six admitted her children don't wash every day.
She said: "They don’t have to bath or shower every day."
Speaking to Mama Mia , she added: "They can quite often skip that part of the routine if it’s getting everyone down. I’m like, “Fine, stinky, go to school and gross everyone out”.
"I personally can’t be f***ed bathing everyone every night."
Justifying her decision to let her kids skip a daily wash she claims the  American Academy of Dermatology  said that youngsters aged between six and 11 only need to bath once or twice a week unless they are dirty, sweaty or have a skin condition.
"I know it makes them look more loveable when they are all clean and smell fresh, but really, skipping a night bath or morning shower a couple of times a week won’t kill them, " she added, reports the Mirror.
 
Talking about meal times at their home, she said: "Feast with your hands.
"Dishes are the worst part of dinner. In other cultures everyone eats with their hands off the same plate."
She added: "Eating should be one of the pleasurable things you share with your kids, not a blur of angry memories.
 
"So if they don’t eat their dinner, don't stress, try something else, keep trying or just let the turd eat his plain pasta and tomato sauce.
"None of my kids ate anything healthy under seven, they all eat well over seven and they are perfectly healthy."
Other parenting advice she dishes out includes having picnics, using coloured-coded buckets to "chuck" each child's clothes in, having a "check-out" time where you can relax and  blocking out her kid's noises by donning headphones.
She said: "I can’t respond to the 400 questions a day by six different kids: the fights over whose turn on the iPad it is, or who ruined what. I just can’t. So I block it out."
