
# Alexander-Arnold Names Toughest Opponent, Snubs Messi & CR7

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/alexander-arnold-names-toughest-opponent-snubs-messi-cr7/666551)

Liverpool star Trent Alexander-Arnold has faced the likes of Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo, but he has named a Manchester United star as his toughest opponent.

        
          Read: 'He's The Talent Of The Century'
        
      
The 21-year-old has established himself as one of Europe's most exciting full-backs in recent seasons, after playing a starring role in the Reds' emergence.
Alexander-Arnold has gone up against some of the best attackers in world football, and he has revealed facing Marcus Rashford in 2018 at Old Trafford was his toughest.
"[That match against United was] the toughest in terms of a direct opponent and someone getting on top of me in professional football. I'd say I underestimated him," Alexander-Arnold told The Athletic .
"It was a massive learning curve for me. It was something that I hated happening. As a Liverpool player, it's probably the worst game of the season to perform like that. But when things like that happen you have to learn from them.
"It was a wake-up call. You hate days like that. You don't want to experience that. You remember how it felt and that makes you try everything you possibly can to ensure you don't have another one like it."

        
          Read: 'We Must Take Advantage Of Messi'
        
      
