
# Cam Newton Is Done For The Season: So What’s Next For The Panthers?

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Joe Barnathan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joebarnathan/2019/11/05/cam-newton-is-done-for-the-season-so-whats-next-for-the-panthers/)

This morning the news dropped that many have been dreading: Panthers star quarterback Cam Newton is being placed on injured reserve and is done for the season. The Panthers have been without their franchise star for most of the year, having turned to backup Kyle Allen for the past six games. In Newton’s absence, Allen has been a steady hand, leading the team to a 5-1 record under center– with the lone defeat coming at the hands of the undefeated 49ers.
However, this news has much greater consequences than simply the rest of this Panthers season. David Newton at ESPN speculates that this may very well be the last of Cam Newton as a Carolina Panther. The argument is clear: Cam Newton has struggled to stay healthy and has not been successful with the team over the last two seasons. He also can be cut for fairly cheap in the summer, opening up the possibility of the Panthers to use that money for another player.
The big question for the Panthers for the rest of the season will be whether or not 23-year-old Kyle Allen is in the team’s future plans. He will have plenty of opportunity over the next few weeks to earn his spot. Should he play well, the Panthers would have to spend a fair amount of money to keep him as he is set to be an ERFA this summer. Yet, the Panthers may decide to play the year out and see what spot they end up in this year’s draft. There are plenty of talented options at quarterback and they team would be smart to take a swing at a young prospect.
Beyond that, they may end up turning towards another backup who has been having success this year, Saints quarterback Teddy Bridgewater. With the team already competing at a high level, they may feel as if they would prefer to plug in an experienced player under center rather than developing a young talent.
As for Cam Newton, his future as an NFL quarterback is clearly up in the air. While many in Carolina would love to bring back a healthy version of their franchise star, it may not come together that way. Instead, Newton may suddenly find himself on the market looking for another home. Before the trade deadline, there was speculation he could be headed to the Chicago Bears. If Newton can prove he can stay on the field, there should be a handful of teams lining up to trade for him or sign him outright. Ironically, if he is in fact healthy, the Panthers may not be so eager to let him go.
Either way, the Panthers will have a lot of questions heading into the summer. For now though, the questions are over: Newton is out, Allen is in. This is the squad they are going to have the rest of the season. If they are to have any sort of success, it will be by continuing to lean heavily on stud running back Christian McCaffrey and this formidable defense. How it all shakes out will determine management’s course of action in the offseason.
