
# Dembele still struggling to win around Barça fans after Slavia showing

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:43:31+00:00**

Author: **Toni Frieros**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/barca/dembele-still-struggling-to-win-around-barca-fans-after-slavia-showing-7715853)

It should not be news that a player who cost more than 100 million euros is starting for Barcelona, but it normally is. With Luis Suarez injured, Barça coach Ernesto Valverde had two options against Slavia Prague: Ansu Fati or Ousmane Dembele. The Frenchman won the contest and joined Lionel Messi and Antoine Griezmann in attack, starting on the right wing.
Ousmane remained on the right wing for the time he was on the Camp Nou pitch. But his showing was horrible. He did everything poorly. Everything he touched, he burned. Offside, lost balls, poor control... he was whistled when he was replaced by Ansu in the second half.
It took 40 minutes to see him do anything of quality, playing a pass through the lines to Nelson Semedo. At least he ended the first half looking like he may be able to do something. But he didn't create enough for a player with his reputation. Slavia Prague's system even played in to his hands. They played a high line and came to play. There was space for his pace.
More of the same in the second half, save a brilliant pass for Sergi Roberto, whose shot was saved. But that was the end because he closed his night by losing a ball on the counter-attack when he could have played in Messi on the right.
Dembele's still a long way from being a player that makes the difference, he's not creating and his decision making is not improving. It is disconcerting.
