
# Nothing Is As It Seems in New Batwoman Episode 6 Promo

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:09:28+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/470954-nothing-is-as-it-seems-in-new-batwoman-episode-6-promo)

The CW has released a new promo for the upcoming Batwoman Episode 6, featuring the on-screen debut of the Executioner. Meanwhile, Alice is plotting against her sister.
The synopsis of “I’ll Be Judge, I’ll Be Jury” reads: A disturbing death has Gotham reeling and the city reaches out for their new vigilante hero. Luke (Camrus Johnson) confides in Kate (Ruby Rose), while Sophie (Meagan Tandy) asks Jacob (Dougray Scott) for a special assignment. Alice (Rachel Skarsten) continues her nefarious plot against the Kanes, with Catherine (Elizabeth Anweis) being a conduit to part of her plan. Batwoman pays another visit to Mary (Nicole Kang).
Scott Peters directed the episode written by James Stoteraux and Chad Fiveash. You can check the new Batwoman Episode 6 promo in the player below.
After a dishonorable discharge from military school and years of brutal survival training, Kate returns home when the Alice in Wonderland gang targets her father and his security firm, by kidnapping his best Crow officer Sophie Moore (Meagan Tandy). Although remarried to wealthy socialite Catherine Hamilton-Kane (Elizabeth Anweis), who bankrolls the Crows, Jacob still struggles with the family he lost, while keeping Kate — the daughter he still has — at a distance.
Based on the characters from DC, Batwoman comes from Berlanti Productions in association with Warner Bros. Television with executive producers Greg Berlanti, Caroline Dries, as well as Geoff Johns, and Sarah Schechter. Additionally, David Nutter and Marcos Siega executive produced the pilot.
The next episode of Batwoman airs November 10 on The CW.
