
# Emmerdale fans convinced Lydia’s sister is pretending to be her after death twist

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:00:19+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/emmerdale-fans-convinced-lydias-sister-20837528)

Emmerdale viewers have predicted an impostor twist will hit the Dales, after Lydia Hart's discovery about her benefactor.
She learned her recent windfall came from her mother Agatha Finn, who had her placed up for adoption when she was a child.
But after trying to track her down, she learned the heartbreaking news her mother had passed away three weeks ago.
The news came from her secret sister she didn't even know existed, while it was quickly clear she was hiding someting.
She was pretty quick in getting Lydia away from the house, and avoided letting her in or even having a proper conversation with her.
As the episode ended it appeared to be confirmed she was lying about their mother, who was very much alive in the house.
Now, viewers think there is more to the storyline and that her mother's true fate might not be the only lie.
Viewers were quick to praise the soap for the casting of Lydia's sister, stating how alike the two actresses look.
But this then led to a new theory, with fans questioning whether the newcomer is even Lydia's sister at all.
They're now wondering if she could in fact be posing as Lydia, pretending to be her given the fact the mother and daughter were separated years ago.
There's also the fact that Agatha had heard about her daughter from the recent newspaper report confirming a baby's remains had been discovered at the school - it was Lydia, real name Jenny Finn, who buried her baby who died during childbirth.
So could the mystery sister have seen an opportunity, and taken on Lydia/Jenny's identity?
One viewer said: "She is impersonating Lydia to steal her Mum's money... bookmark me!"
Another asked: "Is it really Lydia's sister though."
A third tweeted: "This sister is acting very suspiciously."

        Emmerdale airs weeknights at 7pm on ITV, with an extra episode at 8pm on Thursdays.
      
