
# Machete monster hacked into victim's head in daytime attack

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:08:00+00:00**

Author: **Ron Moore, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/ron-moore/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/machete-monster-hacked-victims-head-20791621)

A machete-wielding brute high on cocaine and Buckfast hacked into a man’s head in a Paisley street.
Frank Duffy, 44, was high on booze and drugs when he launched his blade attack on Robert Lawson in broad daylight.
Footage of the attack – captured on a mobile phone – showed Duffy swinging the large blade at Mr Lawson’s head, shoulder and hands as horrified neighbours screamed at him to stop.
Paisley Sheriff Court was shown a video clip of the attack, which took place in Morven Avenue, Glenburn.
Shocked neighbours are heard repeatedly shouting at Duffy to “Get to f***” and to “Stop” as he launched the frenzied assault.
Prosecutor Keri Marshall said: “The footage shows the accused attacking the complainer with a large knife, which he is waving in an overhead chopping motion, striking the complainer several times as he did so.
“Police also received anonymous reports the person responsible for the assault was named as Frank Duffy.”
Duffy, of Morven Avenue, pleaded guilty to assaulting Mr Lawson to his severe injury and permanent disfigurement during the incident on August 3, last year.
 
His injuries included a gash to the back of his head that needed seven stitches, a chip to his collarbone and scarring on his left hand.
Defence agent Eamon McGeehan told the court Duffy targeted Lawson for an earlier attack on his friend, a witness named as Mr Mason.
Mr McGeehan said: “He had consumed Buckfast and cocaine and has no memory of the incident.
“His recollection extends no further than beyond his friend returning to the house and complaining of having been assaulted.
“It appears he had taken it upon himself to exact some kind of revenge upon the complainer, the complainer having been involved in an incident with the friend of Mr Duffy.”
The lawyer added that Duffy was forced to flee Paisley following the incident amid fear of “reprisals”.
 
Sheriff Seith Ireland told the thug: “It was quite shocking, the level of your behaviour, while using a knife, to leave him with severe injury and permanent disfigurement.
“You are out of control when too much drugs have been taken.
“Given your previous conduct, you still present a serious risk of further offending.”
He jailed Duffy for 18 months and ordered he be supervised by the authorities on his release for nine months.
