
# What? Lil Rel Fights for Custody of Son After Learning Child’s Mother is Married

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:00:36+00:00**

Author: **Daryl Nelson**

Original: [Atlanta Black Star](https://atlantablackstar.com/2019/11/05/what-lil-rel-fights-for-custody-of-son-after-learning-childs-mother-is-married/)

The comedian and actor Lil Rel Howery is going through a bizarre custody case over his 2-year-old son, and he claims his child’s mother used the toddler in a fraud scheme.
TMZ reports that his son’s mom LeChez Davis said the child was his, and as a result the “Uncle Drew” star began sending money to Illinois where the woman and boy live. Howery also flew them out for visits to California, where he currently resides.
Davis also got married in the past and allegedly told Howery that she was divorced when they connected and gave their child his last name.
But the stand up comic said he learned that Davis told her husband the exact same thing: That the 2-year-old was his, and the child had his last name, which she put on the birth certificate. Plus, the report suggests that Davis was lying about being divorced, meaning she’s still married.
Howery said the truth began to unfold once he posted an Instagram photo of the toddler, and someone who contacted him said Davis’ husband was the real father. So in October, the “Get Out” actor took a paternity test and found out that he was actually the boy’s dad.
The 39-year-old now wants to move the child to California with him and have full custody, and he says Davis was involved in a “nefarious scheme replete with concealment, misrepresentations and deception in an attempt to defraud.” And that she played him and her husband at the same time.
The Chicago raised funnyman hasn’t spoken about any of this publicly yet, though one recent Instagram photo shows that he was in Chicago this past weekend to visit family and attend his uncle’s church.
It’s not clear if he was in the Windy City handling custody matters during that trip as well.
