
# Best of BS Opinion: Unemployment rate, India opts out of RCEP, and more

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:19:00+00:00**

Author: **Alokananda Chakraborty**

Original: [Business-Standard](https://www.business-standard.com/article/opinion/best-of-bs-opinion-unemployment-rate-india-opts-out-of-rcep-and-more-119110500064_1.html)

From the implications of India's decision to not join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership to the black holes in India's fertiliser policy and the manner in which businesses can be misused to generate and launder black money, here's a selection of Business Standard Opinion pieces for the day
How does one reconcile the inherent dichotomy between a Constitution that recognises privacy as a fundamental right and a legislative arm that indefinitely delays passing laws that offer specific protection to that right? Which is a better reflector of the health of the economy -- the unemployment rate or the employment rate? Has there been any significant innovation in the fertiliser sector to mitigate nutrient losses? Alokananda Chakraborty sums up.
By deciding to not join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, the country risks being cut out of the rule-making process for the RCEP and give China further space in the regional trade and security architecture, argues our top edit.
Click here to read...
The revelation that an Israeli company illegally installed surveillance software on the mobile devices of at least 121 Indians has highlighted long-standing problems with India’s data-protection and privacy laws, argues our second edit. Read on...
Companies with safe balance sheets and clean governance have benefited disproportionately from elevated stock specific risks, says Amansa Capital's Akash Prakash. Read on...
The rising unemployment problem is a simpler problem than the problem of low labour participation rate that India is facing, writes Mahesh Vyas. Read on...
It is imperative to reorient fertiliser policies to facilitate development of innovative and situation-specific products, writes Surinder Sud. Click here to read...
