
# Artist Of The Decade: Kendrick Lamar

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:00:44+00:00**

Author: **Chris DeVille**

Original: [Stereogum](https://www.stereogum.com/2056488/kendrick-lamar-artist-of-the-decade/franchises/2010s-in-review/)

“Bitch, where were you when I was walkin’?” It was a fair question from Kendrick Lamar Duckworth considering how many people had glommed on to him by the time To Pimp A Butterfly dropped, almost exactly at the midpoint of this decade. These 10 years made him not just a star but a guiding light, if not the center of his own solar system. The process was well underway when “King Kunta” heralded Butterfly’s explosive tangle of anger, anxiety, and ambition. A vast array of listeners were ready to anoint him as some kind of savior, never mind that none of us knew the man and few understood where he came from or what he was going through.
I myself was not yet paying attention back in 2010, when the rapper once known as K.Dot released his first mixtape as Kendrick Lamar. He had been building steam in the rap-blog underground with support from a rising record label called Top Dawg Entertainment, whose founder and namesake Anthony Tiffith had signed the Compton product at age 16 on the strength of his scrappy 2004 debut project Y.H.N.I.C. (Hub City Threat: Minor Of The Year). By the start of this decade, Kendrick had kicked out three more mixtapes, changed his rap name to his real name, and joined forces with label-mates Jay Rock, Ab-Soul, and Schoolboy Q as Black Hippy. The group was frequently invoked in early coverage of TDE artists, but in hindsight it mostly functioned as a trampoline for the members’ respective solo careers.
