
# Nurses caught auctioning off singer's IV drip bag, needle and paper cup

Published at: **2019-11-03T01:21:20+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/nurses-caught-auctioning-singers-iv-20800166)

A Chinese hospital has suspended 11 staff members for trying to sell medical waste used by a famous singer.
Singaporean songwriter JJ Lin, who is hugely popular in China, stayed at a hospital in the Jiangsu province of east China as he was treated for a fever last Saturday.
Soon after his medical treatment, pictures emerged on Chinese social media of an IV drip bag, syringe and a paper cup and were widely shared.
The post suggested web users could bid for the items that were reportedly used by the famous singer during his hospital stay.
 
A video shared online shows the nurses taking turns to lie on the ward bed where Mr Lin had been treated.
Mao Zhenwei, chief executive at Zhenjiang No.1 People's Hospital, said in a press conference that the picture was first shared among a closed chat group on WeChat.
Screen-shots of the chat shows a member encouraging their peers to go to ward 9 after Lin is discharged.
Mao expressed his deep sincere apology and stated the medical waste had been disposed of in accordance with regulations.
The 11 medical staff have been suspended while the investigation carries on.
Mao suggested giving out new guidelines to all the staff member to ensure patients' privacy.
The 33-year-old Mandopop singer has released 13 albums since his debut in 2003 and he has performed extensively in China.
