
# Chiefs Youth Bag Six In League Climax

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/kaizer-chiefs-got-a-few-goals-this-past-weekend/666698)

Kaizer Chiefs have had plenty of joy of late, especially with the growth of their youth players, and they managed to put six past SuperSport United over the weekend…

        Read: Chiefs’ Challengers Applauded For ‘Massive’ Effort
      
It was a mixed bag for the Glamour Boys’ youth sides against SuperSport as their U15s and U17s both picked up 3-1 victories, while their U13 side were narrowly beaten 1-0 by Matsatsantsa’s young team.
All three Amakhosi development sides went on to finish mid-table in their respective Gauteng Development League tables, but the success of Chiefs’ current structures can be seen by the emergence of so many players in their senior ranks that have come through from their youth sides in recent years.
Chiefs offered a short match report for their teams on the official website following the games against SuperSport, which read as follows:

        U13 – Chiefs 0-1 SuperSport
      
"After having numerous chances in the first half the Chiefs U13 team were unfortunate to concede late in the second half. Chiefs keeper Future Ndlovu did well to keep out a SuperSport effort at goal as he dived full length to block the ball. With Chiefs unable to clear the goalkeeper’s block, Tshiamo Selemela was on hand to knock the ball over the line for SuperSport as the game ended 1-0 in favour of the visitors."

        U15 – Chiefs 3-1 SuperSport
      
"The Chiefs U15 team followed up their midweek 4-2 win over Orlando Pirates with another win by two goals as they defeated SuperSport United 3-1. A defence-splitting pass from Seth Green sent Njabulo Hlongwane through on goal. With just the goalkeeper to beat he managed to slot the ball home in the 16th minute. He scored a second in the 29th minute to put Chiefs 2-0 up when Bafana Zitha played him into space before he drove the ball home.
"Two minutes into the second half SuperSport found a goal through Shandle Campbell, but Chiefs made certain of the win when Manqoba Ozoemena scored a 60th-minute penalty sending SuperSport goalkeeper Stan Simoncelli the wrong way to score Chiefs third goal. The game ended 3-1 in favour of Amakhosi."

        U17 – Chiefs 3-1 SuperSport
      
"Chiefs U17 captain James McFarlane lead by example as he shot Amakhosi into the lead with a well-drilled shot from distance in the 18th minute. The ball looped over SuperSport goalkeeper Rhulani Mothyhe on its way into the back of the net.
"SuperSport levelled in the 25th minute when Ngoato Chuene scored directly from a freekick. Chiefs lost goalkeeper Werner Oosthuizen to a knee injury as the half drew to a close. He was replaced at half time. Oosthuizen who is also the South Africa national under 17 goalkeeper, collided with an opponent as he went for an air ball. Chiefs did manage to score two more goals in the second half from Mthokosizi Vilakazi and Wayde Poole as the game ended 3-1 in favour of the team." 
