
# Brummies flock to support street food trader after 'disgusting' 28 no-shows to his pop-up in Kings Heath

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:05:48+00:00**

Author: **Sanjeeta Bains, https://www.facebook.com/sanjeetabainsbm/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/food-drink-news/brummies-flock-support-street-food-17190644)

When one Birmingham business owner angrily called out 28 no-shows for his recent food event, he was met with widespread support.
Andy Stubbs said he had to turn people away at his pop-up at Poli pizzeria in Kings Heath - only to find the previously booked tables stayed empty - because those who had booked,  failed to attend.
BirminghamLive's report on how Andy lost £600 in sales after diners "could not be bothered to cancel " and free up their booked tables,   prompted an angry reaction from Brummies. 
Sam Davies tweeted: "This kills small business, people should consider the impact of their laziness and inconsideration."
Shelley Reynolds said: "I hope he emailed each of them back to make them aware of this. Unacceptable behaviour."
Heather Whitehurst said: "It just takes a moment to call/email and cancel. Awful behaviour."
@Volpe_DArgento tweeted: "If they cannot genuinely cannot make it, telephone.... it was fantastic food with people being turned away at the door...."
Julia Macauley said: " That is such horrible behaviour - I've heard of people booking multiple venues and then deciding which one to pick on the night! I would have loved to have gone."
Lynn Baird who attended the event added: " It was a great night , but you really should sell tickets prior to the event . That was if they don’t turn up it’s them out of pocket not you x. "
Many readers said independent businesses should always take a deposit as no shows are a common occurance.
Ant Marshall said: "Unfortunately this happens a lot in the service industry. People don't realise that their booking really could be make or break for a independent trader. Also...both Poli and Low and Slow are incredible!!"
Sanj Guardiola said: "Horrible to do a small business person out of their livelihood. Think all restaurants should take non-refundable deposits."
Alan Fingy Thomson agreed. He said: "They should have taken full payment in advance trusting people to turn up is not how to do business.. "Best way to do it is pre pay. Pre order."
But Jayne Whitehouse said a simple call should not have proven so difficult for the "disrespectful no shows."
Commenting on Facebook Jayne said: "Deposits are all good and well but would only have gone a small way to the amount of time, effort and money spent - just disgusting and disrespectful to not call and cancel."
Some readers pointed out that everyone should be aware that no shows financially hurt all self employed businesses.
Mitchell Jordan Fellows said: "It’s the same in the motor trade, if you’ve got your car booked in to independent garage and can’t make it at least let them know so they can book something else in its place, self employed in what ever trade means if you don’t show we don’t get paid, no good when people like this have family’s to support."
Dale McCallister added: " Same as trades people, the amount of people that call you out and then cancel like it’s nothing and the ones that window shop and live on another planet, or get you out to look at something and then say schedule you in to come and do i it in the week and cancel the night before, I end up with three people out of work including me for the whole day."
