
# George Washington Knew When To Quit: Do You?

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **David Carlin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidcarlin/2019/11/06/george-washington-knew-when-to-quit-do-you/)

Under the cover of darkness, boats landed on the Brooklyn shore. Fearing that even the slightest noise would give them away, the soldiers crossed in silence. The ferries arrived again and again throughout the night, bound for Manhattan. At first light, the redcoats were stunned to find their trapped enemy had vanished. George Washington had slipped the British noose again and escaped to safety. The Continental Army would live to fight another day.The Battle of Brooklyn in August of 1776 went badly for the Americans. An overpowering British force had marched north and pinned the hapless Americans in Brooklyn Heights. With the East River at their backs, the Continental Army would soon be wiped out or forced to surrender. Had he remained in Brooklyn, General Washington would likely have been captured along with the rest of his army. The American Revolution would have ended right there, just one month after the Colonies had declared independence. The United States would be a historical footnote.
Washington’s daring evacuation saved his army and the young nation. If generals are evaluated by their record in battle, George Washington was not a very good general. However, Washington had an exceptional ability to organize an effective retreat. He understood that the long-term preservation of his men outweighed the gamble of a short-term triumph. He recognized that there was no shame in quitting the field in the face of unwinnable odds. He knew that a temporary defeat was not a permanent disaster.

        Never Quit?
      
Our society values grit and determination. We often hear the adage “quitters never win, and winners never quit.” YouTube is filled with life coaches and billionaire founders talking endlessly about never giving up in pursuit of your goals. However, the truth is more complex. Sometimes a tactical retreat is the best choice in order to succeed in the long-haul. No one could argue that Washington and his troops lacked perseverance. Washington showed a masterful ability to keep his army together through years of struggle and a brutal winter in Valley Forge. However, without his willingness to retreat, Washington would have lost his army well before Valley Forge. Against the British power, only survival mattered, and Washington was a survivor.
Retreating is often far harder than staying the course. In the words of historian Charles Francis Adams, “above all, Washington was master of himself.” It requires more perspective and self-discipline to acknowledge failure and change direction. A lesser leader than Washington might have pressed forward with disastrous results.

        The Sunk Cost
      
Psychology explains why it is so hard to retreat. We frequently fall victim to the “sunk cost fallacy,” where continued investment is justified by prior commitments of time, resources, or money. Such thinking clouds rational decision-making and keeps us marching down the wrong course for too long. In the business world, the sunk cost fallacy manifests in many ways. A pharmaceutical company may keep pouring resources into a failed drug that they spent years developing. A fund manager may increase his stake in a plummeting company in hopes of recouping prior losses. In both cases, leadership is throwing good money after bad.
Given psychological biases and social pressures, it is little wonder that we often do not know when to quit or change course. How many of us have stayed in a dead-end job for too long? How many of us have continued to spend time on a project we knew had little value? Breaking out of these self-defeating patterns means actively considering whether our current path is the right one. If we find ourselves on the wrong path, we need to have the courage to quit and try something new. In our careers, the unwillingness to change can cost us time and money. For Washington the stakes were far higher. As he showed, great leadership does not always mean charging forward; in some instances it means turning back.
