
# Walker Ends Up In Goal As Man City Drop Points

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:53:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/uefa-champions-league/uefa-champions-league-wrap-06-november-2019/666916)


        Group C
        
        Atalanta 1-1 Manchester City
      
Ten-man Manchester City have to wait to secure progress to the UEFA Champions League knockout stages following a 1-1 draw against Atalanta at the San Siro in Group C on Wednesday.
City looked certain for an away win to book their spot in the last 16 after taking a seventh-minute lead through Raheem Sterling, who also missed a penalty later on in the half.
Mario Pasalic drew the home side level four minutes after the break, before Claudio Bravo, who had replaced the injured Ederson, earned his marching orders nine minutes to the end.
City full-back Kyle Walker finished the game as Man City's goalkeeper.

        Dinamo Zagreb 3-3 Shakhtar Donetsk
      
Dinamo Zagreb and Shakhtar Donetsk played to an entertaining 3-3 draw, with both sides finishing a man short in an action packed clash.
Bryan Petkovic, Luka Ivanusec and Arijan Ademi were on target for the hosts to cancel out Alan Patrick's opener.
However, goals from Junior Moraes and Mateus Martins in second-half stoppage time secured a point, with Dinamo’s Nikola Moro was given his marching orders.

        Group D
        
        Bayer Leverkusen 2-1 Atletico Madrid
      
Bayer Leverkusen registered their first Champions League win in Group D after seeing off Atletico Madrid 2-1 at the BayArena.
An own-goal from Thomas Partey four minutes to the break had Bayer in front during the break before Kevin Volland doubled their lead in the 55th minute.
Leverkusen winger Nadiem Amiri walked the plank with eight minutes to go, whilst Alvaro Morata halved the visitors tally at the death.

        Group B
        
        Red Star Belgrade 0-4 Tottenham Hotspur
      
Tottenham Hotspur thrashed Red Star Belgrade 4-0 away from home in Group B to get their campaign back on track.
Giovanni Lo Celso hit the opener on 34 minutes before Heung Min-son extended the advantage with a brace.
Christian Eriksen hit the final nail in the coffin when he opened his body to rattle the left corner five minutes to the end.
