
# Residents demand roads and MLA spends on parks

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Y Maheswara Reddy**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/residents-demand-roads-and-mla-spends-on-parks/articleshow/71883337.cms)

A difference of opinion seems to be raging on between Mahadevapura MLA Aravind Limbavali and residents of Haralur and other areas raging on. While the MLA claims that all efforts are being made to take up the developmental work in the areas, the residents beg to differ. Limbavali was scheduled to attend seven events between 11.30 am and 6 pm on Saturday. These included a ground breaking ceremony for a children’s park near Lake Dew Residency and Chath Pooja programmes at Sadaramangala Lake and Sri Maramma Temple. The residents, who have been burdened by crumbling road infrastructure for years, want their elected representative to give priority to the development of the roads. They said that if the MLA wanted to spend funds on a park that was the residents have been using for more than 15 years, then it is just money down the drain. So the residents of Lake Dew Residency organised a protest near the venue. After receiving the information about this, the MLA just skipped the event and went for another one at Anjaneya Swamy Temple Road. “We want the MLA to direct the BBMP engineers to asphalt the roads that are full of potholes. The ground-breaking ceremony was scheduled to be held at 4 pm, but the MLA did not turn up even at 7 pm,’’ said a resident on the condition of anonymity. The MLA is said to have turned up at the venue at 7 pm, but left without attending the event. A resident of Lake Dew Residency said they had organised the protest to emphasise on their needs. “We wanted to express our opposition to spending funds on a park while many roads are in a bad condition. No BBMP engineer has visited our layout for more than 10 years though we have been paying property taxes. We are spending from our own pockets to fill up potholes on the roads in our layout,’’ he said. Another resident said that the protest was a peaceful and silent one. “We just held placards, but did not shout any slogans. The MLA seems to have thought that we were there to agitate and so left without speaking to us,’’ he said. A resident said the MLA intends to spend the funds to fence the park so that it is not misused. Limbavali was not available for comments.
