
# Samsung to terminate its CPU design team in the United States

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:48:11+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/samsung-notifies-texas-commission-impending-austin-layoffs?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Samsung has filed documents with the Texas Workforce Commission notifying the state of impending layoffs, a move that comes amid rumors that the electronics giant will cease work on its own CPU cores and license entirely from ARM instead.
While the company employs 3,000 workers in a manufacturing facility in Austin, those workers would not be affected and the labs in question would not be shut down entirely.
The so-called Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) letter sent to the state notifies of layoffs in Austin as well as at the Advanced Computer Lab in San Jose, CA. The letter does not specify how many workers in each state would be let go, but in total 290 workers on the CPU team are expected to lose their jobs. Companies are required by Federal law to notify local state officials if there will be a significant number of layoffs.
Per Michele Glaze, a Samsung spokeswomen:
While it sounds like Samsung handled the layoffs as best as it could, it does create for questions regarding the future of Samsung's own Exynos processors. This isn't the first bit of news to suggest that Samsung is looking to get out of this game, so it'll be interesting to see where things go from here.
Samsung-powered Motorola action cam
The Motorola One Action is unique in a few ways - mostly its wide-angle lens that lets you capture true horizontal video while holding the phone in portrait. It also sports a Samsung Exynos octa-core processor.
Philip Berne worked from 2011 to 2017 as part of Samsung's Public Relations team and maintains no business or financial relationships with Samsung nor is he currently bound by non-disclosure agreement.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Unlimited Means Limited AT&T will pay $60 million after hiding data throttling The FTC has settled its case with AT&T for $60 million. AT&T was accused of failing to inform customers of its data throttling practice while marketing plans as "unlimited."
      

        It's Back This new Android Auto app fixes a problem Google created for newer phones Android Auto for phone screens has finally been released for users who lost access to Android Auto after the Android 10 update.
      

        A decent mid-ranger The Nokia 6.2 arrives in the U.S. with Android One for $249 The Nokia 6.2 with triple rear cameras and stock Android is now available in the U.S. for $249.
      

        Buyer's guide These are the best rugged Android phones Living the rough and tumble life? Get yourself a smartphone that can handle everything you throw at it — or throw your phone at.
      
