
# Reports | Chances of MS Dhoni commentating in D/N Test very slim

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:03:54+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/chance-of-ms-dhoni-commentating-in-d-n-test-very-slim?utm_medium=rss)


        MS Dhoni is unlikely to commentate during India's first ever D/N Test against Bangladesh at the Eden Gardens. The legendary wicket-keeper batsman and former Indian captain has been ignored by the selectors and they seemed to have moved on from him, making Rishabh Pant their first choice keeper.
      
After India's disappointing loss in the semi-final of the World Cup against New Zealand, MS Dhoni has not been seen on the field and speculations about his retirement are increasing day by day with chief selector MSK Prasad indirectly saying that the selection committee has moved on from Dhoni and is looking to give youngsters like Pant more consistent chances. While Dhoni refuses to comment on rumours about his retirement, Star Sports sent a proposal to BCCI to request Dhoni to commentate for India's first pink-ball Test. But this is very much unlikely to happen as Dhoni is still a contracted player of the BCCI.
"There is no way Dhoni can commentate," a source close to the player told PTI.
Dhoni commentating in the D/N match will become a matter of conflict of interest and could put more question marks over his future as a player. With the selectors having already moved on from the veteran, only time will tell whether there is a possibility of Dhoni playing in the blue jersey again.
