
# Boy who wrote letter about dad's death in Afghanistan had begged him not to go

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:54:35+00:00**

Author: **Liam McInerney**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/boy-who-wrote-letter-dads-20822128)

A young man who penned a heartbreaking letter about the death of his dad in Afghanistan as a little boy has revealed how he had begged his father not to go.
Callum Telford was just ten years old when his soldier dad Matthew Telford was gunned down by a turncoat Afghan policeman in Afghanistan in 2009.
Now, on the tenth anniversary of his dad's death, the Surrey 20-year-old has finally opened up about his final encounter with his hero.
Speaking ahead of Remembrance Sunday , Callum said: "Before he left to go he was stood at my front door and obviously I was really upset.
"I turned around and said to him to not go because something bad will happen to him.
"That is something that has haunted me up until now."
 
He also revealed that he hasn't seen his grandparents - Matthew's mum and dad - for almost four years and described how the trauma crippled his family.
Callum, 20, said: "It is difficult and I feel like when we are together it seems like a raw topic again.
"I think the last time I saw my grandparents was the last time I saw my brother which was three or four years ago.
 
"I do still feel part of my dad's family but it is difficult for us to be together.
"Regardless of what we are doing there is always, for me personally, a negative atmosphere."
Sergeant Matthew Telford, 37, was gunned down on November 3, 2009, along with four others by a turncoat Afghan policeman - days before the date he had promised his son he would return.
Callum - his eldest boy - is now in his third and final year of a criminology course.
He wrote a letter after his dad's death that melted hearts across the UK.
 
It read: "I will miss my Dad's sense of humour and I loved his jokes. He was the BFG.
"My Dad was and still is my hero. He died for his country and I am very proud of him for that.
"I will miss playing football with him. I will miss him throwing me on to the sofa.
"He was and still is the best dad in the world. I will miss him very much. R.I.P Daddy."
Callum still remembers writing the letter and has now recalled the moment he was told the tragic news.
"I was in my bedroom and I was fast asleep," he said. "My mum came up and said to me that she needed to tell me something.
"She told me that my dad had died and I thought she was joking - I don't really know why."
The death of his dad broke up the family and Callum admitted that he has not seen his brother or grandparents in years.
Callum's parents Matthew and Nicola divorced when he was a baby and the soldier moved to Grimsby where he remarried and had a son called Harry, now 14, with new wife Kerry.
This led to a difficult childhood for Callum who said: "It was only within the last four years of my dad being alive that we started to get a lot closer."
But his untimely death resulted in a family split and Callum, who lives in Woking, Surrey, with his mum, rarely sees his half brother and grandparents in Grimsby.
Callum said the army charity Scotty's Little Soldiers has been invaluable in helping him grow up without a dad.
 
However, now he is an adult, Callum wishes more help was available.
"As soon as you hit 19 you don't really get the support you did as a child," he said.
"They can't keep going forever so I understand why it has a certain cut off but I do think there could be some more.
"Even if it is not physical help then just a bit more mental support."
 
Callum, who works part time in a bar, has been dating his girlfriend Holly Fowler for two years and described her as "the most understanding" person he has ever met.
He is also a part time DJ and said his love of music was inspired by his father's fondness for German artist Paul van Dyk.
Callum is still passionate about football - and he misses playing with his dad during those visits in Grimsby.
But he confessed that changing his team from Manchester United to Arsenal when he was 14 would not have pleased his dad.
"He would have been absolutely disgusted," Callum, whose dad was a United fan, joked.
 
But he added: "I do hope he would be proud of me.
"I hope he would at least be proud of me for doing something I enjoy doing, that I am passionate about like he was passionate about what he was doing."
The young man now hopes to rekindle his relationship with his younger brother Harry once he is finished studying at Brighton University.
"It is something I have dwelled on about my dad not being here that I don't have the relationship with my brother that I could potentially have had if he was still here," Callum said.
"I know he is always there and whenever I message him he is always there to talk but it would be nice spending some physical time with him."
Callum will spend the significant anniversary celebrating his dad's life.
He added: "I will phone my brother and phone my grandparents and have an extensive chat with them.
"I will have a meal here and go out with my mum and my girlfriend."
Callum said he never considered joining the armed forces but said his dad "wouldn't have changed anything" in his 20 year career.
"As I got older I do completely comprehend that he's done a job for his whole life that he has enjoyed doing.
"It wasn't a job it was a career and he absolutely loved it.
"He wouldn't have changed it for the world."
