
# British royal couple 'deeply saddened' by Tezgam train inferno incident

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:42:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/516811-British-royal-couple-deeply-saddened-Tezgam-train-inferno-incident)

LONDON (Dunya News) – The British royal couple, Prince William and Kate Middleton, have expressed to be ‘horrified and deeply saddened’ by tragic fire incident of Tezgam train which engulfed 74 people in Rahim Yar Khan.
In a condolence message to President Arif Alvi, Duke and Duchess of Cambridge said, “Having just returned from visiting Pakistan, we were horrified and deeply saddened to hear about the tragic fire on the Tezgam train near Rahim Yar Khan”. "Our thoughts and prayers are with all the people and families affected by this heart-breaking disaster," they according to a statement released by the Kensington Palace.
The royal couple has recently returned from a historic and successful five-day tour of Pakistan where they met prominent figures. They promoted education for girls and bilateral relations between both countries.
On Oct. 31, 74 persons lost their lives when three carriages of Tezgam Express caught fire due to explosion in gas cylinder. Pakistan remains in grip of grief as 15 dead bodies have been handed over to the families.
It is pertinent here to mention that the train had caught fire on due to explosion in gas canister purportedly used by Tableeghi Jamaat passengers to cook breakfast near Talwari Station in Liaquatpur area of Rahim Yar Khan. The train was bound from Karachi to Rawalpindi.
Federal Minister for Railways Sheikh Rashid announced to give Rs1.5 million to the deceased of the mishap while Rs0.5 million will also be handed over to the injured as compensation money.
