
# Should Google have included a fingerprint sensor on the Pixel 4?

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:30:35+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/would-pixel-4-be-better-fingerprint-sensor?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Joe Maring / Android Central
      
Similar to past Pixels before it, this year's Pixel 4 has been met with a controversial release. While battery woes have been the main point of contention, there's also been a lot of debate regarding the Pixel 4's face unlock system.
Face unlock on the Pixel 4 works quite well, and personally, I've been very happy with it. Taking a look through the AC forums, though, that's not the case for everyone.
In fact, a lot of people really miss having a fingerprint sensor on Google's latest flagship.
What do you think? Should Google have included a fingerprint sensor on the Pixel 4?

        Join the conversation in the forums!
      

        Double the fun For developers, Surface Neo and Duo represent a unique opportunity Surface Duo and Surface Neo are some of the most enticing devices Microsoft has ever announced. But how will developers take advantage of these new foldables?
      

        Binge time Hulu's offline downloads finally rolling out for Android users After adding offline downloads earlier this month for iOS devices, Hulu has now added the feature to the Android app.
      

        Done deal Google has officially purchased Fitbit for $2.1 billion Following a report from earlier this week, it's now been confirmed that Google has acquired Fitbit for a total of $2.1 billion.
      

        It's easy to see why these Pixel 4 XL cases are 'clear' winners The Pixel 4 XL is a big, beautiful phone. Keep it protected without covering its design with these stellar clear cases.
      
