
# Daily Telegraph forced to correct Boris Johnson column in third inaccuracy this year

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:03:31+00:00**

Author: **Nicola Bartlett, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/nicola-bartlett/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/daily-telegraph-forced-correct-boris-20807347)

The Daily Telegraph has been forced to correct a column penned by Boris Johnson - after he falsely claimed the UK is set to “become the largest and most prosperous economy in this hemisphere”.
It is the third time the paper has been forced to do this year for their star columnist who was paid £275,000-a-year before becoming PM.
The Prime Minister misrepresented data to suggest the British economy was set to outperform the rest of Europe.
Johnson wrote in the June 3 article that the UK was forecast to become the largest and most prosperous economy in "this hemisphere."
The correction published on Saturday said the data was based on an OECD forecast of UK and German GDP from 2020-2060 and that it related to Europe and not the northern hemisphere.
"This forecast did not predict that the UK's GDP will surpass Germany's to become the largest in Europe," the newspaper also said.
 
"This was the columnist's own extrapolation of this data beyond the time-frame of the forecast."
The correction was issued following a ruling by the Independent Press Standards Organisation, the Telegraph said.
Mr Johnson became the prime minister in the month after the article was written.
Labour Party chair Ian Lavery commented: "Boris Johnson used his £275,000 a year newspaper column to stoke anti-Muslim hatred and mislead the public. You cannot believe a word he says, he is not fit to be Prime Minister."
The paper was also forced to apologise after Johnson "misrepresented polling information".
The ruling related to a column published on January 7 2019, in which he wrote: "Of all the options suggested by pollsters – staying in the EU, coming out on Theresa May ’ terms, or coming out on World Trade terms – it is the last, the so-called no-deal option, that is gaining in popularity. In spite of – or perhaps because of – everything they have been told, it is this future that is by some margin preferred by the British public.”
A reader complained, saying no poll available at the time of publication backed up Mr Johnson's claim.
The newspaper argued the column, written by the favourite to be the next Prime Minister, was "clearly comically polemical, and could not be reasonably read as a serious, empirical, in-depth analysis of hard factual matters."
But regulator IPSO today upheld the complaint, ruling that the article breached clause 1 of the Editors Code of Practice - Accuracy.
In July the newspaper was forced to "clarify" “clarifying” on the Conservative MP’s behalf a piece he wrote about a convicted drug dealer.
He criticised the case of Luke Jewitt, who had been allowed out of prison on day release to visit a spa with his mother.
In the column, Johnson described it as “yet another example of our cockeyed crook-coddling criminal justice system” and urged readers to “fill yourself with righteous anger” at the sight of a man being allowed out of his cell while halfway through a nine-year jail term.
The newspaper has since corrected Johnson’s claim that Jewitt “was pushing huge quantities of cocaine and cannabis on to the streets”, following a formal complaint to the press regulator Ipso.
“Mr Jewitt was in fact cleared of charges relating to cannabis, and was convicted of conspiracy to supply 3kg of cocaine,” said the Telegraph in a correction added to Johnson’s article.
“We are happy to clarify.”
As well as forcing the paper to issue corrections, Johnson's column also caused a huge backlash when he compared Muslim women wearing burqas to "letter boxes" and "bank robbers".
Meanwhile the newspaper's owners the Barclay brothers have begun the process of putting it up for sale shortly after they saw its profits crash in the middle of a plan to make it a digitally-focused news outlet.
The Sunday Times reported that Donald Trump's former chief of staff Steve Bannon, was interested in buying the paper.
Although there's no evidence Mr Bannon has the money to complete the deal.
