
# Girl, 12, hit by car trick or treating saved by 6 heroic women who lifted vehicle

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:00:43+00:00**

Author: **Abigail O&#39;Leary**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/girl-12-hit-car-trick-20791665)

A 12-year-old girl hit by a car while trick or treating was saved by six heroic women who lifted the vehicle off her.
The girl was dragged down the road after being hit by the car that had been shot at in what is believed to be a targeted attack.
She was left with bleeds on the brain, a fractured skull and burns to her back in the horrific incident that occurred at around 8pm on Thursday.
The driver, who left the vehicle covered in blood, waited by the roadside until the girl's family arrived.
Witnesses told how six women, including the girl's auntie, helped lift the car and free the injured youngster trapped underneath.
The St John Boscoe pupil was struck by a black VW Golf as she was out enjoying Halloween night with a friend, on Sceptre Road in Croxteth.
Today, the Liverpool ECHO spoke with the girl's family, who live just a three-minute walk from where the hit-and-run took place.
 
The girl, who has not been named, was in the nearby Croxteth Gems youth club with her aunt when she nipped out to go trick or treating.
The Golf was shot at a number of times at around 7.45pm before the vehicle suddenly reversed to try and escape, but knocked down the child in the process.
This morning, her stunned relatives said she was talking in bed at Alder Hey Hospital, and was likely to be "on the mend."
But she is still seriously injured with a skull fracture, three brain bleeds, and "road burn" injuries where her small body was dragged under the car.
She may need skin grafts and has been undergoing X-rays.
Locals described how up to six heroic women managed to pick up the Golf and haul it off the stricken girl.
Her gran, who she lives with, said: "I was in work at the time.
"She was with her auntie at the Croxteth Gems where there was a Halloween party with loads of kids.
"Then a young lad came running in and told his auntie that she'd been run over and hurt.
"We're told she's been talking in hospital and will be on the mend, so that's good news.
"We've been so worried."
The girl was sick in the back of the ambulance due to the shock of the collision.
Witnesses said it sounded like there were up to three shots fired before people heard a car's tyres screeching as it attempted to flee the busy scene.
 
Onlookers said the sound of children screaming could clearly be heard.
A cordon is currently in place on Sceptre Road with the black VW Golf visible in the middle.
It has a green tarpaulin sheet covering it.
White suited forensic officers are combing the i
mmediate vicinity looking for bullet casings or any other clues to build up a picture of what happened.
Police have yet to make an arrest in connection with the incident but a spokesperson confirmed that the 22 year-old-man, thought to be the driver of the vehicle, has been questioned in hospital.
The force said the firearm involved was a shotgun and that investigation is underway to piece together the exact sequence of events that occurred.
They also confirmed that the vehicle did stop after it hit the girl before her family and members of the public rushed to her aid.
Police also confirmed that they have seized a second vehicle, a Ford Kuga, on Blackwater Road as part of investigations into the incident.
Some residents close the scene told the ECHO that they were aware of the identities of the people involved in the shooting.
Assistant Chief Constable Ian Critchley said there is a "significant uniform presence" in the area to reassure the public and that police are encouraging anyone with further information to contact police.
He told the ECHO: "We are dealing with a very cowardly violent firearm discharge that led to a serious injury.
"One to a 22-year-old man who was shot in the face and received significant facial and eye injuries but also to an innocent 12 year-old girl who was playing with her friends having fun on Halloween when she was caught up in the consequences of a discharge and was violently struck by the car.
"The courageous actions of people at the scene are at odds with the cowardly actions of an individual who has discharged a weapon at a possible intended target with no regard to life or anybody else. It has left a 12 year old lying in hospital.
 
 "This should never, never be happening."
Mayor Joe Anderson said: "I saw someone on social media suggest she was in the wrong place at the wrong time.
"That is completely untrue, she was in the place she should have been, in her community, enjoying Halloween with her friends and family.
"It is that community that is now in the wrong place if it knows something about who is involved with this and is not telling the police.
"Like with what happened to Rhys, the police and authorities cannot do this alone - we need people to come forward and help bring these people down.
"And if you don't, then more innocent people and children will be the victims of these crimes - because there will be more reprisals."
An emotional Mayor Anderson added: "My grandchildren were out trick or treating last night - I can only imagine what the family of this young girl are going through.
"My thoughts are also with Melanie and Steve Jones (Rhys Jones' parents) as this incident must have brought home awful memories for them."
Police put a Section 60 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 in place on Friday night, which allows a police officer to stop and search a person without suspicion.
A spokesperson for Merseyside Police said last night: “An investigation is underway following reports a male and a female were injured in Croxteth this evening, Thursday 31st October.
“We were called at 7.50pm following reports that shots had been fired at a black VW Golf as it travelled along Sceptre Road. A short time later the car was in collision with a 12 year-old female pedestrian.
“Shortly after the incident a male presented at hospital with a facial injury. The injury is not believed to be life threatening.
“The female pedestrian has also been taken to hospital for treatment for her injuries.
“Her injuries are described as serious but not life threatening.”
Chief Inspector Mark Everard said: “This investigation is in its very early stages and enquiries are being carried out to establish exactly what has taken place.
“I would appeal to anyone who was in the vicinity of Sceptre Road this evening who saw anyone or anything suspicious or captured anything on dash-cam footage to contact us as they may be able to assist with the investigation.
“Firearms have no place on the streets of Merseyside and we are committed to finding the people responsible for using them and bringing them to justice.”
He added: "This is an extremely worrying incident, where the offender/s have shown no thought for the general public and has resulted in an innocent young girl, who was out enjoying herself, experiencing this traumatic ordeal."
Anyone with information is asked to DM @MerPol, call 101 or contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 quoting log 977 of 31st October.
