
# Xiaomi Mi Note 10 Pro to feature a 108MP sensor, camera sample surfaces - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:03:55+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/xiaomi-mi-note-10-pro/)

Xiaomi Mi Note 10 Pro to feature a 108MP sensor, camera sample surfaces3 (60%) 2 votes
Xiaomi has been actively teasing and hyping its upcoming 108MP touting camera smartphone – the Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro. That device is due to go official in China on November 5th, with a Global launch tipped to follow on November 6th in Madrid, Spain. While the CC9 Pro is set to launch as the first with a 108mp camera in China, the same device is been rebadged for the Global markets as the Xiaomi Mi Note 10, and now we hear of the Xiaomi Mi Note 10 Pro.
Besides the Mi Note 10, the brand is also busy teasing the Xiaomi Mi Note 10 with the same specs as the CC9 Pro. The Mi Note has been on everyone’s lips since Xiaomi started flooding the net with its series of teasers, while details about the Note 10Pro remain relatively scarce.
Now, the good folks over at XDA have discovered evidence that points to the existence of a Xiaomi Mi Note 10Pro. The evidence stems from the camera sample of a Xiaomi smartphone shared earlier today by Xiaomi Poland. The sample is actually that of the Mi Note 10 108MP sensor. But on proper examination of the EXIF data of the file, XDA found that the image was, in fact, clicked using a smartphone called the Xiaomi Mi Note 10Pro, and not the Mi Note 10.
Perhaps, Xiaomi wants to keep the Mi Note 10Pro complete secret as there has been no evidence pointing to its existence so far. While the Mi Note 10Pro details remain a mystery, our thinking is that the firm could drop the SD 730G for the more superior SD 855 SoC.
