
# There is neither respect nor decorum, Mahesh Bhupathi slams AITA

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:51:37+00:00**

Author: **K Kumaraswamy**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/tennis/top-stories/there-is-neither-respect-nor-decorum-mahesh-bhupathi-slams-aita/articleshow/71948730.cms?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=TOIDesktop)

PUNE: The All India Tennis Association (AITA) finds itself in the firing line over its handling of the captaincy issue for the Davis Cup tie against Pakistan.
On Wednesday, multiple Grand Slam champion Mahesh Bhupathi hit out at the AITA for replacing him as captain allegedly because he was "unavailable for national duty". "Personally, if the AITA feels that somebody else can do a better job, that's fine with me. But after 25 years of playing the game and for India, if someone says that I wasn't available for national duty, that's unacceptable," Bhupathi told TOI.
"I am disappointed that there is no respect, nor decorum."
The AITA never issued a statement but a news agency report that day mentioned an unnamed official as saying: "The refusal of Bhupathi to travel to Pakistan has not gone down well with the AITA. I don't think he will be considered for captain's job in future. It's over for him."
The 45-year-old Bangalorean didn't buy the AITA's argument that his tenure had anyway ended in 2018 and his appointment to lead the side against Italy was because it was a home tie and a stop-gap arrangement. "If that was the case why name me as captain for the Pakistan tie and ask me to attend a meeting on October 15," he asked.
Bhupathi was also peeved at the attempt to create an image that he instigated even those players who were willing to travel to Pakistan to boycott the tie.
AITA honorary secretary Hironmoy Chatterjee responded by saying that the players and the captain cannot impose their views on the governing body.
"The ITF had said that they will announce their decision not later than November 4. The decision actually came at night (on November 4). Till the executive committee meeting was on, we didn't get a decision, so we announced the new captain. As long as the new captain was not selected, the old captain remained (involved). How can that be wrong," Chatterjee said.
"As far as certain decisions are concerned, we don't need their views. They are overstepping the line. Are they saying that we need to ask them before we make every decision?
"We all know (each of) our responsibility. If we stay within that, everything is fine."
