
# Halifax 'murder': First picture of mum, 26, who died after 'altercation' in town centre

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:34:42+00:00**

Author: **Neil Murphy**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/halifax-murder-first-picture-mum-20804909)

These are the first pictures of a woman who was allegedly murdered following an altercation during a night out.
The 26-year-old victim, named locally as Levi Ogden, was found unconscious in the centre of Halifax, West Yorkshire at 2.16am on Sunday morning.
Ms Ogden was treated by paramedics at the scene but she later died from her injuries in hospital.
Tributes from friends and family have flooded in for the victim on social media.
Scotty Tee wrote on Facebook : "Awful awful world we live in. Fly high Levi Ogden bless your heart absolute tragedy man. Sickened."
Another said: "'I was thinking of you and all the family today, we were best friends growing up and I will cherish those memories for the rest of my life. I cant believe this is true."
Her sibling, Milo Ogden wrote: "You will forever be in my heart big sis, you had so much more to live for and you had it tore from you."
West Yorkshire Police have arrested a 26-year-old man on suspicion of her murder and remains in custody.
The street where the incident took place was cordoned off for a painstaking forensic examination.
One bystander had attempted to perform CPR on the critically-injured woman but was unable to save her her life, it later emerged.
A local shopkeeper said: “I just saw a lot of people there and somebody was trying to press on the chest of a girl because she couldn’t breathe.
“There more than 20, 25 people. I saw one girl crying. Maybe she was with her.”
West Yorkshire Police said: “Detectives have launched a murder investigation following the death of a woman in Halifax.
“At 2.16am today police were called to an incident where a woman had been left unconscious following an altercation in Silver Street, Halifax.
“The 26-year-old woman was taken to hospital by ambulance for emergency treatment but was pronounced dead a short time later.
“A 26-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of murder and remains in custody.
“A scene has been put in place to undergo forensic examination and enquiries are ongoing to establish the circumstances surrounding her death. 
“Anyone who witnessed the incident or who has any information that could assist the investigation is asked to contact West Yorkshire Police
"Homicide and Major Enquiry Team via 101 quoting Operation Patondeat or call the independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111."
