
# Rumour: The Starter Evolutions For Pokémon Sword And Shield Might Have Been Leaked

Published at: **2019-11-02T03:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Liam Doolan**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/rumour_the_starter_evolutions_for_pokemon_sword_and_shield_might_have_been_leaked)

It appears the starter evolutions for Pokémon Sword and Shield have possibly been leaked on Reddit.
The images of these Pokèmon are believed to have originated on a Twitter account. As can be seen, we've got the first evolutions for Sobble and Grookey, as well as their apparent final forms. In saying this, there are no Scorbunny leaks.
It doesn't end there, either. A number of other new Pokèmon have also supposedly been unofficially revealed. This includes what's being referred to as a "Galarian Meowth" and an even bigger version of the talking cat. There's also a red fox-like pocket monster, its evolution, and an odd-looking purple creature. Take a look below:
You can view some in-game screens of these reportedly new Pokémon on the game's subreddit. There's even a look at an elephant-like one that we haven't listed here. Until we get an official confirmation, though, these leaks should be treated as a rumour and nothing more.
Update: More images have surfaced online via Twitter. One is allegedly the final evolution of Scorbunny and the other is a new snake Pokémon and its evolution.

        What do you think – are these real or fake Pokèmon designs? Tell us below.
      
[via polygon.com]
