
# Hibs fans angrily react as club tweet for first time since Celtic thrashing

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:33:02+00:00**

Author: **Mark McDougall, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/mark-mcdougall/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/hibs-fans-angrily-react-club-20807767)

With no league wins since the opening weekend of the season and a 5-2 thrashing in the Betfred Cup semi-final, it's fair to say Hibs aren't in the best of form.
While defeat to Celtic certainly wasn't unexpected, the manner of it left fans angry and the club didn't tweet from full time at Hampden until 11am on Monday morning.
That didn't go down well as Hibs let fans know they were in reserve action against Celtic at the Hibs Training Centre on Tuesday afternoon - while fans wanted news of Paul Heckingbottom's exit as pressure builds on the Easter Road boss.
Hibs said: "The development squad are back in action against Celtic tomorrow. It's a 1.45pm kick-off, though the pitch at Foresters Park has sadly been deemed unplayable.
"The match is now likely to take place at HTC but we will confirm that as soon as we can."
Fans angrily responded to the tweet with @HonestHibee said: "Not the tweet I put notifications on for" while @murray1875 added: "Do us a favour and please don't tweet anything unless it's to announce the sacking of our clueless manager. Stop getting our hopes up."
@HibeesMc said: "Get him to f***" and @mrrennie18751 took a political view when he added: "Announce Hecksit".
@fronor2 said: "Treating the fans with utter contempt" while @HibernianDaniel simply asked: "Why is he not gone yet?"
Hibs added two more tweets about where fans could get updates on the match and also one about their women's side looking for new youth players and both of those were also targeted with criticism.
@legod0407 said: "Nobody is interested in this nonsense. Much preferred the media silence. Announce Hexit and Demsix."
@Chriswood1875 added: "Hate you Aberdeen."
