
# Wait, You Need This: 5 New Releases the Cosmo Beauty Team Loves

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:08:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/style-beauty/beauty/g29699559/wait-you-need-this-11-07-2019/)

✨Hello, hi, and welcome to Wait, You Need This, a weekly series highlighting five brand-spanking-new products the Cosmo beauty team (’sup!) can’t and won’t shut up about. ✨
Like, yes, we’re fully aware of the fact that the holiday season is more or less here, but that isn’t stopping us, the Cosmo beauty team, from spending some serious $$$ on ourselves real quick. I mean, considering the fact that the latest beauty drops are really freaking good (see: ridiculously pretty candles, super-wearable highlighters, and easy-to-apply cuticle serums), you can’t even really blame us. So in the spirit of giving into a lil pre-holiday “self-care,” join us in shopping the five coolest new beauty products of the week, ahead.
sephora.com $80.00 SHOP NOW
Okay, this is limited edition, so get it right now before I personally buy five more. Each of these bronzer, blush, and highlighter shades are genuinely gorgeous and somehow look natural no matter how much you sweep on. 
In my lazy (ahem, ~tipsy~) moments, I’ll swirl a giant powder brush over the entire palette like a g’damn maniac and even that manages to look really pretty, like a warm, flushed glow. It’s honestly hard to mess this one up.
✨ Chloe Metzger, senior beauty editor
neimanmarcus.com $42.00 SHOP NOW
Lemme just preface this by saying it takes a lot for me to get excited about a candle. Like, yes, they smell great and look cute in my apartment, but if I’m going to spend more than $10 on it, it needs to be pretty damn magical. Enter: this newly launched scent from Moodcast Fragrance Co., which features a crazy-unique blend of smoke, leather, and vetiver.
Other than smelling (and, like, looking) pretty amazing, I’m super into the brand’s idea of turning something as simple as lighting a candle into a full-blown self-care moment. The mood they’re hoping to invoke with this beaut? Sinner, which aligns perfectly with my lil emo heart.
✨ Ruby Buddemeyer, beauty editor
sephora.com $49.00 SHOP NOW
This new highlighter is actually an instant glow-up. My favorite color—Jet Girl—is kinda the perfect hue for everyone. It looks amazing on my deep skin tone as well as my roommate’s fairer skin.
It’s way easy to use too. I just take a dense brush, dip it in the finely milled powder, sweep it along the high points of my face, and boom—I look like a glazed doughnut (in the best way possible). Pro tip: If you want an allover glow, sweep your brush on your collarbones to get a super-shimmery finish.
✨ Ama Kwarteng, beauty assistant
dermstore.com $35.00 SHOP NOW
This moisturizer feels like nothing on my skin. Seriously—it’s actually awesome. The lightweight lotion has an airy texture that disappears into my face almost instantly, and it’s infused with a combo of glycerin, ceramides, and B vitamins to deeply hydrate too. 
I use it in the morning and my skin feels soft and bouncy all day but zero percent greasy or sticky. I’m obsessed.
✨ Lauren Balsamo, senior beauty editor 
oliveandjune.com $16.00 SHOP NOW
Okay, truthfully, IDK when this launched—definitely within this year—but it’s new to ME! In the winter, I’m always looking for a good cuticle serum to hydrate the scraggly skin that hugs my nail beds, and this is going to be my winter 2019 go-to. 
My favorite part about it? The dispenser is a soft puff, which allows me to easily buff on the avocado-, jojoba-, apricot-, and sunflower-seed-oil-packed serum, unlike with brush applicators, which, IMHO, can get so effing messy. And bonus, it isn’t greasy! It def won’t be leaving my bag for the entirety of the season.
✨ Carly Cardellino Vaccaro, beauty director
Ruby Buddemeyer Beauty Editor Ruby is the beauty editor at Cosmopolitan, where she covers beauty across print and digital.
