
# NBC Considers Completely Free Peacock Streaming Service Tier

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:27:35+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/nbc-free-peacock-streaming-tier.html)

NBCUniversal is contemplating offering the ad-supported version of the NBC Peacock streaming service for free.
A final decision has yet to be made but NBCU appears keen to offer a free version to everyone.
Peacock is not due to launch until next year in both ad-supported and ad-free forms.
Advertisement
NBCU had already confirmed Peacock will come in two distinct styles. There's the ad-free version available to pay-TV and Comcast broadband customers. Then there's the ad-supported version.
As is typically the case with a two-pronged strategy like this, NBCU plans to charge customers a fee to use the ad-supported version.
Now, a new report from CNBC that credits "people familiar with the matter" says NBCU is considering making the ad-supported version completely free. It is likely this version will also come with the option to upgrade to the ad-free version by paying for the service.
Advertisement
By opting to provide at least one tier where the access is completely free, Peacock could be in a good position to attract users. While there's no shortage of streaming services now available, and even more planned over the next few months, the majority of them do require a paid subscription.
This also would not be the first time NBC has targeted cord-cutters with a free service.
While NBCU still seems undecided on the overall pricing structure, the report highlights there could be multiple Peacock tiers.
Advertisement
For example, if the ad-supported version does eventually become free to all, as well as a direct-to-consumer option to upgrade to the ad-free experience. Then NBCU will need to offer a way to differentiate it from the version available to pay-TV and Comcast broadband customers.
NBCU may look to strike this balance with different tiers that either add or remove features or benefits. Currently, no examples of what those extra perks might be have been provided.
By offering multiple tiers to different users, NBCU is hoping to offer an overall product that suits users and providers alike.
Advertisement
Peacock is yet another streaming service. Unlike others, this is a dedicated NBC streaming service.
According to NBC, when Peacock launches it will provide access to more than 15,000 hours of content. This will include access to popular NBC TV shows and movies.
In some cases, Peacock will be the only place you can stream certain shows. This includes "The Office" and "Parks and Recreation."
Advertisement
Peacock is due to launch in the U.S. in April, 2020.
