
# Tyson Fury to replace Dillian Whyte as Deontay Wilder's 2020 mandatory challenger

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:47:02+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/tyson-fury-replace-dillian-whyte-20811677)

Tyson Fury is set to replace Dillian Whyte as the mandatory challenger to Deontay Wilder's WBC heavyweight title.
Whyte beat Oscar Rivas back in July to become WBC 'interim' champion and earn the opportunity to contest Wilder for his belt next year.
But president of the WBC, Mauricio Sulaiman, confirmed this week that Whyte's mandatory status has been suspended.
UK Anti-Doping (UKAD) are currently investigating an adverse finding in a drug sample provided by Whyte, which was revealed shortly after his unanimous points decision over Rivas.
The 31-year-old has not been banned from boxing, but his bout with Wilder will not be sanctioned until he is cleared of any wrongdoing by UKAD.
The WBC has now installed Fury as mandatory challenger instead, with Whyte's shot at the belt put back to 2021.
Sulaiman told Boxing Social : "Dillian Whyte is in a process from an adverse finding from UKAD. It is highly confidential and highly legal.
"We have met with Dillian Whyte, his representatives, we are doing an ongoing investigation, so the fight of Fury against Wilder in February [2020] will be the mandatory of that year.
"We have set the next mandatory for February 2021. If Dillian Whyte is cleared of everything and of the process, he's confirmed as 'interim' champion and mandatory challenger.
"He [would get] that secured February 2021 championship fight against the champion, whoever it is…
"Dillian is not available at this moment. He's not suspended, but there's an enquiry, something that is being investigated.
"His right that he earned as mandatory and 'interim' champion right now is suspended until everything is cleared."
It was likely that Fury would have fought Wilder before the mandatory challenge of Whyte anyway, with the Gypsy King already revealing plans for their February bout.
For Whyte it is another setback in hiis quest for a world title shot, despite him having lost just once in 27 fights (to Anthony Joshua) and being ranked at no.7 in the overall list of global heavyweights.
He said back in July after revelations of the 'adverse finding' emerged: "I am so disappointed with the rubbish that has been said about me over the last few days.
"I have lawyers dealing with it and I have been told that I can't talk about it for good legal reasons.
"I was cleared to fight and I won that fight fair and square."
