
# 2018 Alpine A110 recalled

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:18:23+00:00**

Author: **James Wong**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805117/2018-alpine-a110-recalled/)

- shares
Renault Australia has issued three separate recalls for the 2018 model-year Alpine A110 sports car, affecting between 61 and 72 vehicles depending on the notice.
The first recall relates to vehicles fitted with the sports exhaust that could have an issue with oil pressure.
"The oil pressure solenoid programming is not compliant to the required specification, which may result in decreased oil pressure," the company says.
"If there is a decrease in oil pressure, there may be engine failure, heavier steering, loss of auxiliaries and/or much greater breaking effort required, posing a risk of an accident or injury to vehicle occupants and other road users."
This recall affects 72 vehicles sold between 1 January 2018 through 27 February 2019 – a VIN list is available here.
You can access the original recall listing here.
For the second notice, there are 69 vehicles that could have improperly tightened screws in the front boot lid.
"If the screws loosen, there may be difficulty closing the front trunk lid, noise distractions in the front trunk while driving, and in the worst case the front trunk lid may open while driving which may obscure the driver's view," Renault says.
There is an increased risk of an accident or injury to the vehicle occupants and other road users."
Recalled vehicles were also sold between 1 January 2018 through 27 February 2019 – a VIN list is available here.
You can access the original notice here.
Finally, the third recall affects 61 vehicles fitted with sports exhausts that could have faulty wiring.
"The exhaust valve wiring may not be adequately mounted under the vehicle, and may come into contact with the exhaust. The wiring may melt the duct and then melt the wiring, which may short-circuit the exhaust flap wiring," the French brand reports.
"If the defect occurs, the vehicle may switch into limp home mode, be unable to start or cease operating while driving, increasing the risk of an accident or injury to vehicle occupants and other road users."
Like the previous two notices, recalled vehicles were also sold between 1 January 2018 through 27 February 2019 – a VIN list is available here.
For more information, you can access the original recall notice here.
In all three cases, owners will be notified by Renault Australia and advised to contact their preferred dealer to arrange the inspection and repair of their vehicle.
13
nextprevious2018 Alpine A110 recalled
