
# Ross Brawn: This time the rules have been changed completely differently

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Louis Shaw**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49536/ross-brawn-this-time-the-rules-have-been-changed-completely-differently-.html)


        The 2021 rule changes have been announced and teams, drivers and fans have had some time to digest what they mean. Most of the response has been positive but some are worried that the rule changes are just a 'quick fix' to problems of recent times. 
      
Ross Brawn disagrees and has stated that the rule changes have been made with the focus on the future not trying to fix the past. 
“We have seen too many times in the past that rule changes were used to improve temporary problems with a temporary solution. This time the approach has been completely different. We went looking for rules, studied them carefully and listened to the fans. You can have the best drivers, the fastest and most advanced cars and the most beautiful circuits, but you are nowhere without interest from the fans,” Brawn said. 

        “We are happy to see how the new rules were received, especially by the fans. We also know that a lot of work still needs to be done to put the finishing touches prior to 2021. Until then, everyone can already build on the new basis of Formula 1 that everyone has agreed to. There is no way back."
      
The rule changes should allow for closer racing and whilst they should fix the problems we have seen in recent seasons, they have been made with the focus on the future. 
