
# The Pixel 4 now supports RCS messaging on Google Fi

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:43:56+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/google-pixel-4-now-supports-next-gen-rcs-messaging?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Joe Maring / Android Central
      
The Google Pixel 4 is getting a software update that will enable features like RCS messaging and DSDS, according to tweets posted by Sanaz Ahari, Sr. Director of Product & Design at Google. Of course, the Pixel 4's capability to handle the next-gen Rich Messaging Service (RCS) will be dictated by carrier support, but at least now the handset has software capable of the iMessage-like SMS successor.
Ahari also indicated that Google Fi version of the Pixel 4 is the first one to work with RCS, which makes sense since Google Fi partners with Sprint, a carrier that has already declared its support for RCS.
Pixel 4 users with two SIM cards will also see support for Dual-SIM, Dual Standby mode (DSDS). With two SIM cards loaded, users will be able to assign tasks to each carrier network, so phone calls could be placed over one network while text messages are sent over the other. One SIM would be a physical card, and the other would be a number assigned to the Pixel's eSIM.
The Google Pixel 3 and Pixel 3a both support DSDS features, so it was surprising that these did not work on the Pixel 4 at launch. As posted on Reddit, Ahari responds to a user saying that Google "had a bug that was fixed," apparently solving the problem. With Google Fi support for eSIM on the Pixel 4, Fi users could be among the first to load a second SIM card and see the new DSDS capabilities in action.
Even more capable than before
The Pixel 4 was designed to be Google's best and most impressive Pixel yet. Recent updates give the phone next-gen RCS messaging and cool dual-SIM support, if you're on the right carrier (hint: Google Fi)
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Because I'm happppyyyy Are you happy with the Pixel 4? The Pixel 4 has received a lot of criticism since its release, but taking a look through the AC forums, many people are really happy with the phone. What about you?
      

        Unlimited Means Limited AT&T will pay $60 million after hiding data throttling The FTC has settled its case with AT&T for $60 million. AT&T was accused of failing to inform customers of its data throttling practice while marketing plans as "unlimited."
      

        It's Back This new Android Auto app fixes a problem Google created for newer phones Android Auto for phone screens has finally been released for users who lost access to Android Auto after the Android 10 update.
      

        It's easy to see why these Pixel 4 XL cases are 'clear' winners The Pixel 4 XL is a big, beautiful phone. Keep it protected without covering its design with these stellar clear cases.
      
