
# Spotlight on shotgunners ahead of final Tokyo quota meet

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:13:30+00:00**

Author: **Tushar Dutt**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/more-sports/shooting/spotlight-on-shotgunners-ahead-of-final-tokyo-quota-meet/articleshow/71881597.cms)

PUNE: In their last bid to win Tokyo 2020 quotas, Indian shotgun shooters will be keen to put in display their best performance at the Asian Shooting Championships in Doha, starting on Monday.
So far, India have won nine quota places for Tokyo, but they all have come in the rifle and pistol events.
There will be 38 Tokyo berths (in 12 events) on offer in Doha -- four each in men’s 25m rapid fire and women’s 25m sports pistol and three each in 10 other events.
Under Olympic qualification rules, each country can earn a maximum of two quotas in a given event. Having sealed nine quota places already, India will be eligible to win 15 berths at the meet.
The rifle and pistol shooters are still best placed to add to their Olympic berths from the last competition to offer Olympic quotas since China, Korea and Japan have already secured most of their berths.
On the contrary, it will be a tough task for the shotgun shooters, since most of the quotas so far have been grabbed by the Europeans while the marksmen from UAE, Kuwait, hosts Qatar and even China will be looking to grab their spots.
So far, China have only men's trap quota in their pocket, while Kuwait have one each in men's skeet and trap. UAE and hosts Qatar are yet to open their account. Traditionally, shotgun shooters from UAE and Qatar have consistently qualified for the Olympics.
"India has not opened their account yet in the shotgun events, so this makes the competition even tougher. Also, only three quotas have been won by the major Asian countries, so it will be very challenging for everybody to book a Tokyo ticket here. There is more pressure since this is the last chance for everybody," said four-time Olympian Manavjit Singh Sandhu, who will be contesting for the trap quota.
Rifle and pistol shooters have got their fair share of Tokyo berths. India has sealed all four (two men, two women) quotas in 10m air pistol category, while only one quota in the 10m air rifle category (men's event) remains to be filled.
India have a strong chance to book a berth in the men's 25m rapid fire event, where Anish Bhanwal and Adarsh Singh will try to clinch two of the four quota places on offer. Similarly, in the women's 25m pistol event, 2012 participant Annu Raj Singh will be gunning for the one remaining spot in the Indian contingent. Rahi Sarnobat has booked one place already.
