
# Eagles Confident Heading To Bye Week 5-4 After Holding Off Bears

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jon Marks**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonmarks/2019/11/03/eagles-confident-heading-to-bye-week-5-4-after-holding-off-bears/)

Almost in spite of themselves the Eagles head into the bye week 5-4 following today’s harder-than-it-had-to-be 22-14 win over the Chicago Bears.Now they get a desperately needed break to heal their many wounds following a game in which they looked so dominant at times, yet inept at others. 
But since the bottom line is all that matters in the NFL, they’ll gratefully take it and look forward to when Tom Brady and the Patriots come to town in two weeks for their first meeting since Super Bowl LII, rather than focus on how a seeming blowout turned into a nail biter.
Of course it you know anything about these Eagles, rarely do they make things easy on themselves.  That’s one reason Doug Pederson will put his team and himself under the microscope this week, trying to figure out what makes them tick, or in some cases, not.
“Obviously we’ll do our standard self-evaluation,” said Pederson, whose club watched a commanding 19-0 third quarter lead in into a 19-14 one possession game, before putting it away with a 16-play, 69 yard, 8:14 drive that resulted in a 38-yard Jake Elliott field goal. “We’ll look at third downs, red zones,  how we start games.
“We’ll even look at how we practice and how we’re using guys so as not to have a lot of tendencies moving forward.”
As for whether or not DeSean Jackson will be a part of it, that’s another question. D-Jax’s celebrated return from a Week Two abdominal injury didn’t last very long. Signed to a three-year, $27.9 million contract following a pre-draft trade, Jackson looked like a bargain when he stole the show in the opener, catching eight passes for 154 yards including 53 and 51-yard  touchdowns. 
The lone five-yard pass he caught today was his first reception in the eight games since. With him gone the deep ball has been virtually non-existent from Carson Wentz’ arsenal.
In fact, Eagles’ wide receivers had only two receptions longer than 28 yards since Jackson went down, along with a 45-yard wheel route to rookie back Miles Sanders.  That resulted in Wentz, who had signed a four-year $128 million extension in the off-season, looking rather ordinary, as some fans longed for departed Super Bowl LII hero, Nick Foles.
While Jackson’s absence was bound to impact the offense, the degree in which it has comes as a bit of a shock. Considering Jackson’s recent history—he hadn’t played a full season since Chip Kelly unceremoniously sent him packing in 2014, missing a total of 14 games in the five-year interval—you’d think general manager Howie Roseman might’ve been better prepared. 
Jackson’s mere presence was supposed to open things up for Alshon Jeffery, Nelson Agehlor, Zach Ertz & Co. Instead, the passing game has been a weekly adventure, with Ertz—coming off a franchise record 116-catch season—the biggest casualty.  
Prior to today’s nine catches for 103 yards and a touchdown breakout, Ertz had been held to just 13 catches for 169 yards and one score over the last four weeks. The savior had been the Eagles’ running game, particularly in road wins over Green Bay and Buffalo, where they ran for 176 and 218 yards respectively behind Bears’ castoff Jordan Howard and Sanders.
That gives Pederson plenty to think about before first Brady, then Seattle’s Russell Wilson pay back-to-back visits.   Meanwhile, defensive coordinator Jim Schwartz’  unit, which has allowed just 27 points combined the last two weeks after surrendering 75 in road blowout losses to the Vikings and Cowboys, seems to have come around.
Credit at least some of that to the return to action of cornerbacks Ronald Darby and Jalen Mills, who were joined today by nickel back Avonte Maddox, who’d missed three games and defensive tackle Tim Jernigan for the first time in seven weeks.   With Roseman unable to work a deal for potential reinforcements like Jalen Ramsey or Minkah Fitzpatrick, they’ve helped settle down a vulnerable Eagles secondary. 
Still, the Bears’ otherwise erratic quarterback Mitchell Trubisky, did burn them for one 53 yard bomb—nearly half his 125 yards passing. 
Schwartz knows the defense will have to be better against Brady and Wilson in the coming weeks and hopes linebacker Nigel Bradham, who’s missed the last two games with a sprained ankle, heals by then.  He may also get back 2018 waiver wire sensation, Cre’Von LeBlanc, back, too.
Meanwhile, the offense will cross its fingers Jackson is finally able to contribute, though it’s sheer conjecture how much he can do and how long he can stay out there.
That’s what the 5-4 Eagles have to look forward when they return from the bye week. Besides feeling better about themselves thanks to their two-game winning streak, they know a Cowboys’ loss to either the Giants or Vikings would tie them for the first in the NFC East, with a Dec. 22 showdown back at the Linc looming.
At the same time they also probably know to make the playoffs it’s win the NFC East or bust. Despite getting unexpected help with both the 7-2 Packers and 6-3 Vikings losing while 7-2 Seattle pulled one out in overtime  over Tampa Bay, making it as a wild card seems a stretch.
Before heading out the door, though, Wentz took a moment from his usually one-game-at-a-time mantra to look at the big picture. “I think we all feel good about where we’re at,’ said Wentz, whose 239 yards passing were his most in three weeks and only the second time he’s gone over the 200 mark in the last six. “There’s things the last two weeks that we’ve left out there for sure.
“But to be able to go against two good football teams and come away with a win, I think gives us a lot of confidence going into the bye week. We were able to weather the storm with those couple losses and everything going on and everyone staying together.
“I’ve really liked what I’ve seen from everybody and I have a lot of confidence going forward.”
We’ll start finding out soon enough whether or not that confidence is justified.
 
