
# Protest politically motivated: Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kumaran P**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/protest-politically-motivated-deputy-chief-minister-cn-ashwath-narayan/articleshow/71929398.cms)

Medical education ministry officials release proof that a doctor, a close aide of former CM’s son, is asking students to protest The officials from the department of medical education, on Tuesday, said that the protest by post-graduate (PG) students of Bangalore Medical College Research Institute (BMRCI) was instigated by a doctor from the college associated with former chief minister Siddaramaiah’s son. The protest, which has continued for four days, turned political on Tuesday after the Deputy Chief Minister and minister for medical education CN Ashwath Narayan said that it was politically motivated. The officials from the ministry released photos of a BMC doctor and text and WhatsApp messages sent by him alleging that he is the one instigating the students to protest against the state government. Ashwath Narayan said, “Politics will not work for long in the Minto Eye Hospital case. We have evidence that this protest by students is politically motivated and it will not happen henceforth. We have taken all measures in the students’ interests.” The ministry officials said that the doctor is allegedly a close aide of Dr Yathindra, son of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, and he has been motivating students to continue the protest, which started after an alleged assault by a mob led by Karnataka Rakshana Vedike.
The government is not talking about the action to be taken against the mob. They just want to enhance the security measures in the future to protect us­
–Medical studentHowever, the students have been protesting irrespective of any messages. One of the students said, “We have to get justice and this cannot keep happening every time. We will protest until the culprits are arrested.” The students said that though they have been asked to withdraw the protest, they will not do so unless the perpetrators are arrested. Students shouted slogans like ‘Protest until Arrest’ to force the state government to take action against the mob from Karnataka Rakshana Vedike. The medical circle is rife with debates that the state government has not made any statement against the mob, but is instead providing ex-gratia to patients who lost their vision and beefing up security in medical colleges. A medical student said, “The government is not talking about the action to be taken against the mob. They just want to enhance the security measures in the future to protect us. What about these perpetrators? They will go scot free despite creating nuisance in the hospital. They will continue to do so everywhere in the state.” Meanwhile, Narayan said that his government will deploy hi-tech mechanisms, including artificial intelligence. “Whatever may be the challenge, technology will be used. Walkie-talkie, facial recognition cameras, artificial intelligence or analytics will be utilised,” he said.
