
# 12 Best Overnight Sleeping Face Masks for Every Skin Concern

Published at: **2019-11-04T06:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/style-beauty/beauty/g29596887/overnight-sleeping-face-mask/)

PSA: You should a hundred percent be using an overnight sleeping face mask as a part of your p.m. skincare routine. Why, you ask? Well, for one, these “masks”—which are really just souped-up night creams full of active ingredients—are great for targeting specific skin issues like acne, redness, dark spots, and dryness. And because you use them at night when your skin is in repair mode and highly receptive to active ingredients, they’re super effective too. So do your skin a favor and check out this list of the 10 best overnight sleeping face masks below, slather one on before bed, and wake up to clear, glowy skin in the morning.
dermstore.com $120.00 SHOP NOW
If you’re dealing with acne, then this is the overnight sleeping face mask your skin needs. It’s full of antibacterial honey, exfoliating AHAs, and anti-inflammatory colloidal silver and niacinamide to keep everything from blackheads, whiteheads, and cysts in check.
sephora.com $48.00 SHOP NOW
A potent combo of turmeric, vitamin C, and rose oil in this sleeping face mask work together to fade the look of dark spots, smooth rough texture, and protect your skin from free radical damage. The result? All around brighter, healthier skin.
amazon.com $12.99 SHOP NOW
Toss your blotting papers and try this clarifying overnight sleeping face mask from Bliss instead. It uses green tea extract and azelaic acid to absorb excess oil and minimize the look of pores (without over-drying your skin). 
ulta.com $25.00 SHOP NOW
Let your skin chill while you snooze with this calming overnight sleeping face mask from Mamonde. It is ideal for sensitive skin and uses soothing herbs and plants, like calendula, centella asiatica (aka cica), and aloe vera to reduce redness and inflammation.
ulta.com $36.00 SHOP NOW
Your dry, thirsty-ass skin is going to LOVE this ultra-moisturizing overnight sleeping face mask. It’s packed with heavy-duty hydrators, like hyaluronic acid, glycerin, mango seed butter, and shea butter to give your softer, smoother skin come morning. 
amazon.com $26.99 $16.99 (37% off) SHOP NOW
Proof that you don’t need to spend a ton of money to get a overnight sleeping face mask that really works? This drugstore option from Olay. The gel formula is infused with hyaluronic acid and vitamin E to plump and hydrate your skin while you snooze. 
sephora.com $49.00 SHOP NOW
Fact: Retinol is, hands down, the most effective ingredient out there when it comes to boosting collagen and elastin production (the two proteins in the skin that keep it line-free). Get your fix in this overnight sleeping face mask from Glow Recipe—it combines time-released retinol with moisturizing avocado to make your skin ridiculously smooth and plump.
sephora.com $35.00 SHOP NOW
The first time I used this overnight sleeping face mask from Fresh I was legit shocked by how good the results were. I woke up to noticeably smoother, firmer, and glowier skin, thanks to a combo of fermented black tea and fruit extracts.
sephora.com $48.00 SHOP NOW
This overnight sleeping face mask is made with all-natural and organic ingredients, making it perfect for anyone who is into the clean beauty scene. Massage it into clean, dry skin and let the hydrating coconut milk and silver ear mushroom work its skin-plumping magic.
saksfifthavenue.com $165.00 SHOP NOW
This creamy moisturizing mask is pricey, but it makes my skin so hydrated and bouncy, it’s worth the $$. I apply a super-thick layer on clean skin before bed, wait about 20 minutes for it to soak in, tissue off any excess, and then pass out. In the morning, my skin looks ultra-glowy and baby soft.
amazon.com $39.60 $28.68 (28% off) SHOP NOW
These single-use overnight sleeping face masks from Neutrogena are actually perfect for when you’re traveling. They’re infused with hydrating hyaluronic acid and vitamin E and will fit perfectly in your toiletry bag (no spilling or leaking either).
sephora.com $38.00 SHOP NOW
Some overnight sleeping masks are basically just super-thick moisturizers and can feel kinda suffocating on your skin. Not this vitamin-rich jelly sleeping mask though—it is super lightweight and soaks into your skin in seconds without any heavy or sticky residue. I like to keep mine in the fridge for some extra cooling and de-puffing action when I pop it on.
Lauren Balsamo Senior Beauty Editor Lauren Balsamo is the senior beauty editor at Cosmopolitan.
