
# Roundup: MLB transactions

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:36:55+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-basebal-mlb-transactions-roundup-idUSKBN1XB3H5)

Arizona Diamondbacks: Declined 2020 club options on infielder Wilmer Flores ($6 million) and left-hander T.J. McFarland ($1.85 million), making both players free agents. The team also announced that infielder Kevin Cron had knee surgery earlier this month. The Diamondbacks also optioned outfielder Abraham Almonte and left-hander Robby Scott to Triple-A Reno.
Atlanta Braves: Declined mutual 2019 option for $7.5 million on outfielder Billy Hamilton, according to MLB Network’s Jon Heyman.
Boston Red Sox: Claimed left-handed pitcher Josh Osich off waivers from the Chicago White Sox in first move by new Red Sox general manager Chaim Bloom, the team announced.
Chicago White Sox: All-Star first baseman Jose Abreu became a free agent along with outfielder Jon Jay, right-hander Ivan Nova and left-handers Ross Detwiler and Hector Santiago, the team confirmed.
Cincinnati Reds: Acquired outfielder Travis Jankowski from the San Diego Padres for international cap space. Also, left-hander Alex Wood and infielder Jose Iglesias became free agents.
Cleveland Indians: Exercised $17.5 million option for 2020 season on right-hander Corey Kluber. The Indians also declined options on second baseman Jason Kipnis ($2.5 million buyout) and right-hander Dan Otero ($1.5 million), making them both free agents.
Los Angeles Dodgers: Added minor league left-hander Victor Gonzalez to the 40-man roster.
Milwaukee Brewers: Picked up $1.85 million team option on catcher Manny Pina, according to Heyman.
New York Yankees: Outfielder Aaron Hicks underwent UCL reconstructive surgery earlier this week, the team said. Hicks is expected to miss 8-to-10 months. The Yankees also announced they’ve declined the 2020 team option on DH Edwin Encarnacion, who would’ve made $20 million.
Seattle Mariners: Declined the 2020 club option of left-hander Wade LeBlanc ($5 million), making him a free agent. Also, former star right-hander Felix Hernandez became a free agent, along with left-hander Tommy Milone and right-hander Arodys Vizcaino.
Texas Rangers: Outfielder Hunter Pence became a free agent along with infielder Logan Forsythe and right-hander Edinson Volquez. Texas acquired catcher Welington Castillo and an international signing bonus pool slot from the Chicago White Sox for minor league infielder/outfielder Jonah McReynolds.
—Field Level Media
