
# Nate Diaz suspended for 90 days following UFC 224 defeat to Jorge Masvidal

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:42:45+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/nate-diaz-suspended-90-days-20826919)

Nate Diaz has been handed a 90 day medical suspension as a result of the cut he suffered in his defeat to Jorge Masvidal at UFC 244.
Diaz suffered two nasty cuts to the right side of his face - one above and one below the eye - in the early stages of his huge BMF title showdown with Masvidal.
The fight was controversially stopped at the end of round three when the doctor intervened and ruled Diaz was unable to continue.
And Diaz has now received a medical suspension which prevents him for competing for at least 90 days to allow the cuts to fully heal.
 
As a result, his return to the Octagon is set to be delayed with him unable to even contemplate a comeback until early February.
Diaz has struggled with cuts throughout his career, and Dana White revealed after the fight he could undergo plastic surgery similar to the procedure undergone by brother Nick to solve the issue.
“Diaz has to get sewed up tonight then in four weeks he’s gotta have plastic surgery to get all the cartilage out of his eyebrows, or whatever the doctor was telling me. He’s gotta have some work done,” White said.
 
The winner of the bout, Masvidal, has also been handed a 30 day medical suspension to recover from the bout.
He offered Diaz an immediate rematch with both fighters upset by what they felt was a premature stoppage in an exciting fight.
The same 30 day suspension has been handed to Darren Till and his opponent Kelvin Gastelum, whilst three other fighters, Andrei Arlovski, Makwan Amirkhani and Chance Rencountre have also been suspended for 90 days after heavy defeats.
