
# How The Phoenix Suns Upset The Philadelphia 76ers To Win Their Third Straight Game

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brendon Kleen**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brendonkleen/2019/11/05/how-phoenix-suns-upset-philadelphia-76ers-win-third-straight/)

This was supposed to be the hard part of the Suns’ schedule. Though the team plays nine of its first 12 in Phoenix, the Suns likely took their first look at the schedule in August and sighed. Many 2019 playoff teams dotted the first few weeks, and even though they were at home, it’s not the best environment to install new schemes and build momentum. 
At least, that’s what was supposed to happen. Instead, after a 114-109 victory over the NBA championship contender Philadelphia 76ers, the Suns’ record sits at 5-2. They are near the top of the standings, far ahead of schedule.
“We’ve said all along we were going to monitor our progress month by month, but at the same time, this is a huge win,” admitted coach Monty Williams, who was a Sixers assistant coach last season.
To beat the Sixers, the Suns had to change. Philadelphia forces nightly adjustments on the part of opponents who cannot match its size and length. With star center Joel Embiid facing the second game of a suspension and missing the Phoenix game, Philadelphia took on a slightly smaller, quicker identity on offense. Still, the Sixers were favored heading into the game.
By beating Philadelphia, the Suns have trumpeted their arrival once more.
Here’s how it happened:
Wiliams and center Aron Baynes first discussed Baynes potentially defending Simmons on Sunday at practice and Williams made the decision Monday to start the game matching up that way. The big man defended Giannis Antetokounmpo several times the past two years as a member of the Celtics, but Simmons is smaller and plays more in transition. 
“When I was in Philly, we put Joel onto Giannis, but I don’t think anybody’s put a center on Ben,” said Williams. 
The results skewed drastically in the Suns’ favor. Simmons was muted throughout the game, scoring just six points on 2-8 shooting. Other than an impressive seven steals, he was unimpactful. 
Baynes’ wide frame, sound footwork and effort to contest helped him corral Simmons. The young guard look off-kilter when he found Baynes awaiting him on the interior and took several shots in situations when passing might have resulted in a better shot.
After the game, Baynes said limiting Simmons was the result of focused team defense, not just his own prowess.
“It’s not just me. It’s a whole team focus. We set the tone early with five guys getting back, building a wall in front of him. If he sees multiple jerseys, that makes it tough for him, so as much as it’s a different look for me, it’s a team defense … Five guys on a string need to be doing it.”
Many times already this year, the Suns have used all five men on the court to handle opposing playmakers. Against Simmons, the script was the same: dig in to help when he’s in the lane and be ready to recover back out to shooters and rotate to support your teammates.
Though they were burned a few times by leaving Philadelphia’s shooters open, a three from Al Horford or Furkan Korkmaz is a better bet than a wide-open dunk for Simmons. The Sixers shot 45 percent from deep but with Embiid out and Simmons’ production lacking, they didn’t have enough to win.
When the Suns have been able to keep games close by defending, Devin Booker has been able to bring them home in the fourth quarter most nights. This worked against Sacramento, the Clippers, Memphis and now Philadelphia, but this time around, the results were even more efficient. 
Booker scored 40 points on just 19 shot attempts against the best defensive team in the NBA. Rookie Matisse Thybulle found his “welcome to the NBA” matchup, and even Simmons couldn’t stay in front of Booker. Any bigger players who found themselves checking Booker might as well have just laid down.
As a response to Philadelphia’s aggressive style of team defense, Booker turned on the jets to get to the rim more often than usual. Each game, Booker is getting smarter about moving without the ball to get to spots on the court where he can make shots. 
The floor is spaced better for him this year than ever before, and Booker trusts his teammates to get him the ball. They feed him when he gets open, and he reciprocates the support by giving great effort on defense, something he didn’t always do in the past.
Without elite defensive personnel, the Suns rely on all five players to be attentive and smart to guard opposing teams. Booker has been a positive part of that, and his defensive energy was necessary to eek out the victory over Philadelphia.
“I’ve said it for a while, he’s a complete basketball player,” Williams said. “The thing I like about Devin is he’ll get off of (the ball). It wasn’t just his scoring.”
Against Denver and Utah earlier in the season, the Suns saw chances slip away late because they couldn’t execute down the stretch. 
In Denver, Booker’s game-winning shot attempt was blocked by Nuggets wing Torrey Craig as the buzzer sounded and Booker admitted he needed to be smarter about shot selection in that moment. The Jazz beat the Suns by forcing two late turnovers before guard Donovan Mitchell drew a foul on the final possession to take the lead with free throws.
Many players on the roster have won tight games as pros, and despite all his prodigious skill and the trust he’s earned from his teammates, Booker is learning how to close from them.
“We have the players that have been in this situation before,” Booker said. “Personally, I haven’t, games coming down to the wire, but I’m learning every day the importance of every possession, taking care of the ball and paying attention to every detail on defense also.”
Williams chalked the hard-nosed defense that prevented the Sixers from getting what they wanted offensively late in the game to “scrap,” and credited his players for their effort.
Phoenix outscored Philadelphia by six in the final period and sealed a victory that elevated them to second in the Western Conference standings. 
