
# How To Watch Canelo Alvarez vs. Sergey Kovalev

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Peter Kahn**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/peterkahn/2019/11/02/how-to-watch-canelo-alvarez-vs-sergey-kovalev/)


        
          This story was written in collaboration with
        
        
           Forbes Finds
        
        
          . Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
        
      
Canelo Alvarez has an opportunity to join a short list of professional fighters who have won a world title in a fourth weight class as he challenges WBO light heavyweight champion Sergey Kovalev on Saturday, November 2 at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas. The fight promoted by Golden Boy Promotions will be streamed live on DAZN starting at 9:00 p.m. ET. Before losing twice to Andre Ward and to Eleider Alvarez (a loss he later avenged), Kovalev was one of the most feared fighters on the plant and the WBO’s fighter of the year in 2017. While Kovalev has lost some of the luster he once had, he has a chance to cement his legacy as one of the top light heavyweights in his era.
The oddsmakers have the challenger Canelo, who has never fought at light heavyweight as a -360 favorite according to the boxing odds at BetOnline. Kovalev, on the other hand, is a +300 underdog to retain his title and cement his legacy by defeating the biggest earner in boxing. While there isn’t much value in betting the moneyline on this fight, there are many prop bets that provide a lot of value for sports bettors that want to cash in.
My prediction for this fight is simple: While I feel Kovalev will start off strong and work behind his jab, possibly winning the first couple of rounds, it’s only going to be a matter of time before Canelo closes the distance and starts working on Kovalev’s body. I caught up with Kovalev’s hall of fame trainer, Buddy McGirt, who feels the way his fighter is going to win this fight is by making Canelo think. He feels that people underestimate Kovalev’s boxing IQ.
McGirt may be right, but the one question mark that still lingers after the rematch with Ward and the first fight with Alvarez is whether Kovalev has the mental fortitude to walk through fire and not fold.
Let’s be honest, there was a moment in his most recent fight against Anthony Yarde in which McGrit was ready to stop it and Kovalev seemed willing to quit. Canelo is going to make Kovalev dig deep. The only chance in my opinion for Kovalev to win this fight is to put his foot on the pedal from the opening bell and keep that jab in Canelo’s face without pause. Everything else will work off that including managing his distance and using his height and reach advantage to keep Canelo at bay.
I predict Canelo will win this bout by TKO or KO rounds eight or nine. If Kovalev’s fitness is in top form and he can handle the pressure Canelo will bring, then I still feel Canelo by stoppage, but closer to rounds 10 through 12.
The undercard for the Canelo vs. Kovalev live stream on DAZN will begin at 9 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 2. The main card to follow.
Canelo Alvarez vs. Sergey Kovalev (WBO Light Heavyweight title)
Ryan Garcia vs. Romero Duno Lightweight
Seniesa Estrada vs. Marlen Esparza (Women's WBA Interim Flyweight)
Blair Cobbs vs. Carlos Ortiz Welterweight
Evan Holyfield vs. Nick Winstead Jr. Middleweight
Bakhram Murtazaliev vs. Jorge Fortea Jr. Middleweight
Tristan Kalkreuth vs. Twon Smith Cruiserweight
Meiirim Nursultanov vs. Cristian Olivas Middleweight
