
# Nigel Farage proposes General Election ‘Leave alliance’ to Boris Johnson

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:32:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/world/nigel-farage-proposes-general-election-leave-alliance-to-boris-johnson-961194.html)

Nigel Farage has thrown down a General Election gauntlet to Boris Johnson, calling on him to ditch his Brexit deal and form a “Leave alliance”.
The Brexit Party leader said he will field a candidate in every seat in Britain if the Prime Minister does not drop his EU Withdrawal Agreement and get together in what he said could be a “non-aggression pact”.
Launching the party’s General Election campaign in Westminster, Mr Farage said the PM’s deal did not represent Brexit and described his “very big, generous offer” as a “one-off opportunity” that would secure Brexit and win the election with a “big stonking majority”.
Mr Farage said if the Tories did not agree to an alliance and abandoning the deal he would make sure every household in the country was made aware it was a “sell out” of Brexit.
Addressing a hall packed with journalists, Mr Farage said if Mr Johnson did not agree to his terms his party “will contest every single seat in England, Scotland and Wales”, adding: “I say to Boris Johnson – drop the deal.”
Mr Farage said: “Of course, I’m open and flexible to local exceptions and already we are in communication with a number of MPs who are prepared to renounce the Withdrawal Agreement, to renounce the deal, and they themselves to stand on a ticket of a genuine free trade agreement or leave on WTO terms.
“And of course in those cases where MPs say this, we will view them as our friends and not as our enemies.

        Post-mortem reveals British backpacker Amelia Bambridge drowned
      
“But that is not the real deal. The real deal is a Leave alliance that wins a big majority in Parliament.
“The real deal is a Leave alliance that delivers a genuine Brexit.”
It is thought Mr Farage’s party may try to persuade staunch Tory Brexiteers to do a U-turn on their support for Mr Johnson’s Withdrawal Agreement and his party could then leave those Tory candidates to run in their constituency without opposition from the Brexit Party.
