
# Expect a stock market tumble to cloud your retirement years — plus other top investing tips

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:58:00+00:00**

Author: **MarketWatch**

Original: [MarketWatch](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/expect-a-stock-market-tumble-to-cloud-your-retirement-years-plus-other-top-investing-tips-2019-11-02?amp%3Bsiteid=rss&amp%3Brss=1)

Don’t miss these top money and investing features:
It’s likely that your stock portfolio will suffer a major downturn during your retirement years — and probably more than once or twice. Don’t panic — prepare. Make sure your stock portfolio is allocated appropriately for your risk tolerance, which means having enough of a cushion to ride out these inevitable Wall Street storms.
Read columnist Mark Hulbert’s report on the surprisingly high frequency of U.S. market corrections and crashes, then check out stories on international investing, exchange-traded funds, and a close look at factor investing.

        — Jonathan Burton
      
Stocks are climbing a ‘wall of worry,’ but one day they’ll hit the wall, writes Mark Hulbert. U.S. market is less overvalued now, but that doesn’t make stocks a ‘buy’
Researchers have devised a precise formula for calculating this possibility What are the odds the market will crash during your retirement years?
All stock market benchmarks are not created equal, writes Mark Hulbert. Why it’s tough to tell if a mutual fund manager has really beaten the market
Six more months of upside for stocks supposedly starts at the end of October, writes Mark Hulbert. The stock market’s ‘Halloween Indicator’ is more trick than treat
Investors are making a mistake to ignore international markets, writes Mark Hulbert. U.S. stocks are getting a run for the money from some unlikely parts of the world
Flows into money market funds have increased nearly every week since U.S.-China trade deals hit their first serious roadblock back in May, another sign of increasingly gloomy investor behavior. Investors are loading up on cash. That’s not a good sign
Competition from the asset management platforms helps make investors aware of the fees they’re paying for financial services, allowing them to demand lower ones. Asset-manager fees keep falling. Thank retail investors
Focus on companies with predictable growth, make big bets, and be patient. 5 ways to beat the market — from a fund manager who’s done it for years
Personal communication counts even more in a digital age. ‘You’ve got snail mail’: These financial advisers connect with investors the old-fashioned way
As ETFs mature and the appeal of their structure becomes more accepted, fund managers will increasingly opt to use an ETF framework, rather than a mutual fund, as the backbone for their investing strategies. Is it time for ETFs to get active?
Innovative exchange-traded funds with clever marketing and cute tickers grab lots of media attention, but command a relatively small share of the number of funds and total assets invested, according to a new analysis. ETFs with themes: popular, but a small share of the market
Factor investing isn’t new, but it might seem strange or exotic to individual investors. Here’s a broad overview. What is factor investing?
Factor investing has mostly been applied to stocks, but there are reasons to also consider employing it for fixed-income portfolios, and lots of interest from institutional investors. Fixed-income investors are ready for factor funds, survey says
Founder Masayoshi Son has always made large bets in hopes of owning a market. SoftBank’s problems aren’t so surprising if you understand this one thing about the company
When SoftBank started throwing good money after bad to rescue WeWork, Vitaliy Katsenelson’s investment firm sold its shares. Here’s what my firm did with its SoftBank stock after the WeWork debacle
AI is providing context to lenders, allowing small businesses to receive the right amount of capital and gain access to credit. How artificial intelligence is helping small businesses receive loans
Plus:  Sign up here to get MarketWatch’s best mutual funds and ETF stories emailed to you weekly!
