
# Weight loss story: From 110 kilos to 80 kilos, this guy’s weight loss journey is unbelievable!

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/health-fitness/weight-loss/weight-loss-story-from-110-kilos-to-80-kilos-this-guys-weight-loss-journey-is-unbelievable/articleshow/71893655.cms)

When you are overweight, it is not the comments of the people that break you, but rather the inability to perform everyday tasks with the same ease. It is also disheartening to see your clothing size go up. Something similar happened with 32-year-old Tejas Bari, who realised that he needed to lose those stubborn kilos when even XXXL size did not fit him. His weight loss journey is an example that you can achieve anything, once you put your mind to it.
Name: Tejas Bari
Occupation: IT Professional
Age: 32 years
Height: 5 feet 7 inches
Highest weight recorded: 110 kgs
Total Weight lost: 30 kgs
Current weight: 80 kgs
Duration it took me to lose weight: 10 months
The turning point: While there were a lot of things that were going wrong with me, the wake-up call was when I couldn’t even fit into XXXL clothing size. I realised that I needed to do something about my weight. Additionally, I was really inspired by real-life weight loss stories and decided to lose weight.
Weight loss diet: I didn’t consult any professional nutritionist or fitness trainer. I start my day with a glass of warm lemon water. After that, I have a banana and then head to the gym.
My breakfast: I prefer to have poha or upma in breakfast with 4 boiled egg whites. I would have a cup of green tea in between my breakfast and lunch.
My lunch: I have 3 chapatis, a portion of sabzi and salad.
My snacks: Dry fruits (almonds, walnuts and cashews) and a glass of fruit juice
My dinner: For my last meal of the day, I stick to grilled paneer or roasted chicken or 1 chapatti with sabzi.
My workout: When I weighed a massive 110 kilos, I started doing cardio in the gym. Gradually as I lost weight and became fitter, I started working towards burning more calories. In the beginning, I worked out for 45 minutes and then I started working out six days a week for at least one hour.
After I touched 98 kilos, I also started weight training under the guidance of my friend Ajit Bhosale. Once I got used to weight training, I reached out for heavy weights and now I target one body part per day for muscle training with heavy weights.
Low-calorie recipes I swear by: A bowl of dal, roasted chicken and fruits.
Fitness secrets I unveiled: First things first, you need to completely stop consuming sugar and all sugar-laden products. Secondly, start drinking plenty of water every day and try to work out daily. Even if you are not motivated enough for a full-blown workout, try exercising a little daily.
How do I stay motivated? I keep myself motivated by watching fitness training videos on Facebook and YouTube. Also, I have made exercising a part of my lifestyle, so that when I don't work out for even a single day, it feels like something is missing. Hence, I do not bunk gym for two days continuously. If that isn’t possible, I work out at home.
How do you ensure you don’t lose focus? I make it a point to check my weight regularly and keep a record of the same. It is important to remember that your weighing scale doesn’t reflect your progress. It should not deter your confidence as it is just to keep you on the track.
Secondly, whenever I crave for anything which is not a part of my diet, I make it a point to control the urge and have it only on Sunday.
What’s the most difficult part of being overweight? I used to completely avoid doing physical activities. Moreover, getting clothes that you want to wear is one of the most difficult parts of being overweight. I never got the desired readymade clothes of my choice. Hence, I always had to compromise on what I wore and it was really disheartening.
What shape do you see yourself 10 years down the line? Now my focus is on muscle toning and to maintain my current physique. I want to stay healthy and fit, no matter what.
What are the lifestyle changes you made? The first thing I did was to eliminate sugar from my diet completely. I also stopped eating junk food and going out to parties with my friends. While I didn’t stop drinking alcohol completely, I made it a point to just indulge in it occasionally, in a limited quantity.
However, the biggest change I had made was to quit smoking completely. After this, I could actually see the difference when I ran on the treadmill.
What was the lowest point for you? While I never really cared about unsolicited comments that people made, I was certainly getting tired of hearing that I won’t be able to lose weight. There came a point when I actually started thinking that why am I not able to shed those stubborn kilos.
Lessons learnt from weight loss: Your attitude makes a lot of difference in your journey to lose weight. When I had begun my weight loss journey, I never thought that I would actually reach this point. Hence, hard work and patience is the key to lose weight. Moreover, if I can do it, you certainly can.

        
          If you too have a weight loss story to share, send it to us at toi.health1@gmail.com
        
      
