
# From 'Padmaavat' to 'Manikarnika'; Here are the top ten highest-grossing Bollywood period films

Published at: **2019-11-07T02:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/from-padmaavat-to-manikarnika-here-are-the-top-ten-highest-grossing-bollywood-period-films/articleshow/71941158.cms)

Bollywood is best known for its larger than life cinema. Over time, filmmakers have captured the essence and vibrancy of the rich culture of India on the celluloid with several historical period films. These period films have their own demand and usually have big names associated with them. Made own a heavy budget with enormous sets to recreate a completely different period, these films also rake in huge money at the box office.
Ace director Ashutosh Gowarikar is all set narrate one of the mightiest battles ever fought in the country in his upcoming period drama 'Panipat.' Starring Arjun Kapoor, Kriti Sanon, and Sanjay Dutt in the lead roles, the film recounts the events that led up to historical Third Battle of Panipat. The trailer of the film was recently revealed and promises a magnum opus. Arjun Kapoor plays Sadashiv Rao Bhau who leads the Maratha army against the invading forces.
With all the hullabaloo around 'Panipat', here we take a look at the top ten highest-grossing Bollywood period films -

        Padmaavat
      
Directed by Sanjay Leela Bhansali, 'Padmaavat' starring Deepika Padukone, Ranveer Singh, and Shahid Kapoor is among the highest-grossing films of all time. The film displays Rajputs in all their glory and narrates the tale of Rani Padmavati (Deepika), who sacrifices her life rather than surrendering to Sultan Allauddin Khilji (Ranveer). Shahid plays the role of Maharawal Ratan Singh. The film was embroiled in controversies, however, minted gold at the box office. The film did a lifetime collection of Rs 282.28 crore and garnered acclaim from all corners.

        Bajirao Mastani
      
Another magnum opus from Sanjay Leela Bhansali, 'Bajirao Mastani' is an epic love tale that featured Ranveer Singh, Deepika Padukone, and Priyanka Chopra in the lead roles. The film was also met with a lot of protests, however, impressed everyone after release. The film was based on Peshwa Bajirao and his love story with Mastani. The film did a lifetime collection of Rs 183.75 crore.

        Kesari
      
Anurag Singh directorial war drama ' Kesari' starring Akshay Kumar in the lead role narrated the historic tale of the Battle of Saragarhi. The film revolves around the Havildar Ishar Singh (Akshay), who led the 36th Sikh Regiment of the British Indian Army in the Battle Of Saragarhi, which was fought in 1897. The film tells the incredible story of 21 Sikh soldiers who fought valiantly against 10,000 Afghan troops. Released on March 21, 2019, the film did a lifetime collection of Rs 151.87 crore.

        Manikarnika: The Queen Of Jhansi
      
Kangana Ranaut starrer period drama ' Manikarnika: The Queen Of Jhansi' saw the actress making her directorial debut. The film narrated the story of the great Indian woman freedom fighter Rani Laxmibai, who fought against the East India Company and the British rule to prevent her kingdom of Jhansi from being annexed. Released on January 25, 2019, the film did a lifetime collection of Rs 90.81 crore.

        Kalank
      
Abhishek Varman directorial period drama ' Kalank' featured an ensemble star cast of Varun Dhawan, Alia Bhatt, Sonakshi Sinha, Aditya Roy Kapur, Madhuri Dixit, and Sanjay Dutt. The film which was touted as Karan Johar's ambitious project, however, failed to impress at the box office. Set in the 1940s in the pre-independence era, the film tells the tale of six characters mired with each other in the threads of love and revenge. Released on April 17, 2019, the film did a lifetime collection of Rs 80.03 crore.

        Jodhaa Akbar
      
Helmed by ace director Ashutosh Gowarikar, the film featured Hrithik Roshan and Aishwarya Rai in the lead roles. Set in the 16th century, the film was based on the love story of Mughal Emperor Akbar and Princess Jodhaa Bai of Amber. Released on 15 February 2008, the film was a huge success and did a lifetime collection of Rs 56.04 crore.

        Devdas
      
Based on Sharat Chandra Chattopadhyay's 1917 novel of the same name, the Sanjay Leela Bhansali directorial saw one of the best performances of Shah Rukh Khan. The film revolves around Devdas and his childhood sweetheart Paro (played by Aishwarya Rai). Madhuri Dixit plays the role of a courtesan, Chandramukhi. The film was made on a majestic scale and is regarded as the best adaption of the classic. Released on 12 July 2002, the film did a lifetime collection of Rs 41.65 crore.

        Lagaan
      
Set during the British Raj, the Ashutosh Gowariker directorial is regarded as one of the best period films ever made in Bollywood. The film starred Aamir Khan in the lead role and narrated a fictional cricket match played between the villagers and English team. The film was also nominated for the academy awards in the foreign-language category. Released on 15 June 2001, the film was a commercial success and did a lifetime business of Rs 34.30 crore.

        Lootera
      
Helmed by Vikramaditya Motwane, the film featured Ranveer Singh and Sonakshi Sinha and was based on O. Henry’s short story The Last Leaf. Set in the 1950s in West Bengal, the film was based on the backdrop of the Zamindari Abolition Act. Ranveer featured as a conman posing as an archaeologist who loved the daughter of a Bengali zamindar played by Sonakshi. Released on 5 July 2013, the film did a lifetime collection of Rs 27.86 crore.

        Mangal Pandey: The Rising
      
Helmed by Ketan Mehta, Aamir Khan played the revolutionary Mangal Panday who sparks the first war of Independence in India. Set in the British colonial era, the film recounts the events that led to the Indian rebellion of 1857 against the British East India Company. The film was critically acclaimed. Released on 12 August 2005, the film did a lifetime collection of Rs 27.86 crore.
Other notable period films in Bollywood include Shah Rukh Khan's 'Asoka', Ajay Devgn's 'The Legend of Bhagat Singh', Aamir Khan's '1947: Earth' among others.
1960's mega-blockbuster film 'Mughal-e-Azam' which starred Dilip Kumar and Madhubala in the lead roles can be termed as one of the biggest films the country has ever seen. The film had collected a massive Rs 5.50 crore half a century ago. As per a report in Boxofficeindia, the film's worth in today’s date is around Rs 1600 crore, which beats the collective total of all-time top four highest box office grossers of India.
