
# China’s Tobacco Regulator Requests Shutdown of All E-Cigarette Online Shops

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:35:37+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/society/201911021077203976-chinas-tobacco-regulator-requests-shutdown-of-all-e-cigarette-online-shops/)

The notice was published on the website of China Tobacco, a Chinese government agency and state-owned producer of tobacco products operated by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology that is responsible for tobacco regulation.
Chinese startups have in recent years released e-cigarette products similar to those made by Juul, an American company headquartered in San Francisco, California. There is currently no standard regulation of such products in China. Local Chinese e-cigarette companies, namely Relx and Snow+, confirmed in recent statements to Reuters that they would shut down their online sales of e-cigarette products in accordance with the government’s request.
E-cigarette use has also become a contentious issue in the US.
Several US states, including Michigan, New York, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Oregon and Montana, have already banned flavored e-cigarettes.
In a Wednesday letter to US Health Secretary Alex Azar, a group of 27 Democratic lawmakers urged the Trump administration to expedite the banning of flavored e-cigarette products across the nation.
"Because of the ever-increasing epidemic of youth e-cigarette use that has been fueled by flavors that include mint and menthol, we implore the Administration to finalize a compliance policy removing all unauthorized, non-tobacco flavored e-cigarettes from the market immediately,” the statement reads.
