
# Target Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First Deals

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/11/06/target-black-friday-2019-sale-apple-iphone-11-pro-max-samsung-galaxy-s10-note10-xbox-ps4-amazon-echo-google-home-mini-tv-deals/)

This story was written in collaboration with Forbes Finds. Forbes Finds covers products we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes and the author may receive a small share of that sale.Target’s Black Friday 2019 ad scan is finally here and reveals some of the biggest deals you’ll find this holiday season. This is vital because Kohl’s just dropped a bomb with some huge doorbusters and live sales are already underway from Amazon, from Walmart, from Best Buy and from Costco. Here’s are the biggest deals Target brings to Black Friday. 
Note: you can find my Black Friday 2019 guides to the best live sales at Amazon (here), at Best Buy (here), Costco (here), Kohl’s (here) and at Walmart (here). I have also done roundups of the best live Apple deals and biggest Samsung savings.

        Amazon Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Target Black Friday 2019: Best Current Live Sales 
      
Everyone may be talking about Target’s Black Friday ad, but they are missing that some of the best deals - including several of laptop and TV doorbusters - are available right now. Here are the deals you should check out right now: 

        Target Black Friday 2019 Ad: Biggest Deals
      
As for the deals you’ll have to wait for, these are the ones you should put on your shortlist. Note: many of the TV and laptop deals are actually bettered by the live deals listed above, so beat the rush. 

        Target Black Friday Best Smartphone, Tablet Deals
      

        Walmart Black Friday 2019 Sales: What We Know So FarForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Target Black Friday Best Console Deals
      

        Target Black Friday Best TV Deals
      
Await specific model numbers before jumping on these deals:

        Target Black Friday Best Smart Speaker Deals
      
Interestingly, none of Target’s Black Friday ad scan laptop and TV deals catch my attention like the current live deals. That said, there are some standout options here: the Galaxy smartphone deals are head turners and Target is going big on the Nintendo Switch when rivals are not (so far). 

        Apple Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
There’s also the best iPad deal you’re going to find this year and Target has some killer smart home deals, I don’t expect the Google Nest Hub, Home and Home Mini Gen-2 deals to be beaten. 
I will be extensively tracking Black Friday and Cyber Monday 2019 deals and publishing the best offers daily, so be sure to bookmark my page.
___
Follow Gordon on Twitter and Facebook 

        More of my Black Friday Guides on Forbes
      
