
# Tenants warned they could be breaking the law by lighting fireworks in their garden

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:15:55+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/tenants-warned-could-breaking-law-20810791)

It's no secret that casting fireworks in a public space - such as a street or on public property is illegal - especially without a licence.
But thousands of people are unaware they could also be breaking the law by lighting them in their own back garden.
The Government wants to crack down on the 4,000 A&E admissions linked to fireworks every single year - and by next year, it could be illegal to light them in your home altogether.
But for many renters - it could already be banned.
"Just because you live in a rental property it doesn't mean you can’t celebrate annual events like Bonfire Night, but it’s important to remember that you are doing so in someone else’s house and you should treat it as such," Calum Brannan, founder of property website Howsy said.
"By taking a few simple precautionary measures, checking everything is above board with regard to your tenancy agreement, and minimising any chance of damage to the property, there’s no reason you can’t celebrate Bonfire Night without facing eviction or a substantial bill.
"As is often the case in the renal space, your landlord will appreciate any attempts at preventing an issue far more than your attempts to resolve one once it’s already happened."
Here's what you need to know to ensure you don’t end up in hot water with your landlord.
Fireworks and bonfires aren't just dangerous in themselves, but can cause considerable damage to lawns and fences, while a rogue firework can be a lot more costly and in the worst case, damage the property beyond repair.
"Many tenancy agreements prohibit any kind of bonfire in the property’s garden and while this isn't restricted to Bonfire night alone, it doesn't necessarily prohibit fireworks either, but it is the first thing to look out for when planning a party," Brannan explains.
"That said, while uncommon, banning any use of fireworks can be included in the tenancy agreement by your landlord and so you should also check to see if this included.  
"If it’s not, give them a ring and talk it through to double-check. A tenancy agreement will usually state that you must not pose any kind of nuisance or annoyance to neighbours, or engage in antisocial behaviour and letting off fireworks could be classed as both.
"Therefore it’s common courtesy to inform your landlord and neighbours to ensure that your bonfire party isn’t misconstrued as such."
Prepare with care and ensure all fires, if you have to have one, won’t catch light to the lawn, fences or any other plants, sheds and so on.
"You will have to repair any damages so make sure you budget for this scenario. A fire pit or a brazier is a great way to have your bonfire cake and eat it without doing any damage, and they come in handy all winter long," Brannan adds.
To avoid causing a noise nuisance, inform your neighbours, keep your display to a reasonable length of time and hold the event in the early evening. You could even invite them to combat any ill-will against your display. 
Think about the rest of the house. You’re holding an outdoor party that is likely to involve some of the indoors and so you will need to protect carpets and floors from muddy footprints or you’ll have to pay to have them cleaned at the end of the tenancy.
"Make sure your smoke alarms are working in the terrible event a firework does stray through a window and be sure to have something on hand, such as a fire extinguisher, in order to fight the fire and reduce damage.
"And remove any debris or leaves that could catch fire and ensure the garden is clear to avoid any trip hazards around the fire."
