
# Lucy in The Sky and Lawless Burgerbar join forces for Lucy Beer & Burger Bar

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:36:29+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Jakarta**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/jakarta/food-drink/lucy-in-the-sky-and-lawless-burgerbar-join-forces-for-lucy-beer-burger-bar/)

You can never go wrong with burgers and beers, and now, two of the best in their respective specialties have joined forces to bring the two together in the capital.
Syah Establishments, the group behind some of the hippest spots in Jakarta, such as Hotel Monopoli (and its two bars) in Kemang and Sofia at The Gunawarman, recently opened Lucy Beer & Burger Bar in SCBD. As the name suggests, it’s a combination of popular lounge Lucy in the Sky and the Kemang-based Lawless Burgerbar.
Located at Lucy in the Sky, Lucy Beer & Burger Bar promises to bring together the best of the two famous F&B establishments. The Lucy Lawless, a burger layered with a beef patty, romaine lettuce, tomatoes, a sunny-side up, and Russian dressing, is one obvious end product of the marriage. It also happens that the dish shares its name with the lead actress of Xena: Warrior Princess.
Another house specialty is the Cock Sparrer, a spicy deep fried chicken breast fillet stacked between two cheese toasts.
The nightlife and culinary scene in SCBD certainly just got a whole lot juicier.

        
          FIND IT:
        
      

        Lucy Beer & Burger Bar, Fairgrounds, SCBD Lot. 22
      

        Open Sun-Thu, 4pm-1am; Fri-Sat 4pm-2am
      

        Phone +62 813 1986 7542
      

        Lucy Beer & Burger Bar’s 
        
          Coconuts Directory listing
        
        , and 
        
          Instagram
        
      
