
# Final Decisions Decided Benni's Fate – Reader’s Voice

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:48:00+00:00**

Author: **Shakes lamola**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/get-published/final-decisions-decided-benni-s-fate-reader-s-voice/666666)

Cape Town City has amicably parted ways with coach Benni McCarthy.McCarthy is the first to bite the dust following a string of poor results. He has led City to a mere two victories in all competitions this campaign. When the PSL gives match officials a few weeks off for their weekly blunders, club bosses, show coaches the exit door.
McCarthy has been outspoken about poor match officiating that led to his team losing games they should not have lost.Referees decision is final and those decisions have decided McCarthy's fate. McCarthy is tactically astute, that is unquestionable, but losing his job because of the people who continue to commit the same errors must be frustrating to coaches.
 SAFA and PSL will write more letters to coaches but that won't change the fact that match officiating is at its worst in the country.Coaches have signed on the dotted lines knowing football is a results orientated industry. When the results aren't forth coming you are bound to bite the dust. Other teams have to be at their best to beat any coach but when the people who should enforce the law are the ones who breaks the law, more coaches will lose their jobs.Match officials have a hand in coaches getting fired and "Someone must be arrested."
 

         This article was written by a Soccer Laduma reader.
      
