
# Cognizant to hire 23,000 engineering talent in 2020

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:29:40+00:00**

Author: **Sindhu Hariharan**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/cognizant-to-hire-23000-engineering-talent-in-2020/articleshow/71956583.cms)

CHENNAI: IT major Cognizant will hire around 23,000 STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) talent in India during the calendar year 2020, Ramkumar Ramamoorthy, chairman and managing director, Cognizant India, said on Thursday.
This headcount addition would be over and above the number of talent the company would hire for the BPO business, he added, noting that the company was very much an active hirer of technology talent in India.
The net employee additions at Cognizant in India had risen by around 66,000 employees from 2014 to 2018. In the first nine months of 2019, the company added 9,000 employees on a net basis, Ramamoorthy said, noting that overall fresher hiring went up this year.
The IT industry executive was speaking at CII’s flagship Information and Communication Technology (ICT) conference in Chennai.
His statements come at a time when Cognizant announced that it would be cutting 13,000 jobs as part of its ‘2020 Fit For Growth’ plan in a bid to regain its bellwether status.
The Nasdaq-listed IT firm announced during its earnings last week that it had made the “difficult decision” of removing around 2% of its global staff – mainly mid to senior level employees - leading to a net reduction of around 5,000-7,000 employees globally.
Additionally, Cognizant said it would exit its content moderation business cutting down on approximately 6000 employees worldwide.
The IT company’s global headcount stood at 2,89,900 as of September and the company has more than two-thirds of them in India. The company’s attrition at 24% in the September quarter was highest among top-tier IT companies, besides being Cognizant’s highest since June 2017.
