
# Pregnant mum kills masked gunman who threatened daughter, 11, and husband in home

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:10:02+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/pregnant-mum-kills-masked-gunman-20814027)

A pregnant mum shot an armed man dead after he and another broke into her home and grabbed her 11-year-old daughter.
The masked burglars also pistol-whipped her husband during the terrifying break-in, which happened in Florida.
They pointed a gun at Jeremy King's head and demanded money before his wife opened fire with an AR-15 weapon.
Although the woman, who is eight months pregnant, has not been named, her husband has spoken about the incident.
Mr King told Bay News 9 : "Them guys came in with two normal pistols and my AR stopped it.
 
“[My wife] evened the playing field and kept them from killing me."
Mr King, 34, was left with a fractured eye socket, a fractured sinus cavity and concussion after what he described as a "severe beating".
He said he had explained to the men that he had nothing to give them.
His 31-year-old wife was in a back bedroom when she came out to see what happened, and one of the men opened fire.
She grabbed her husband's weapon and shot back, fatally injuring the man as he tried to escape.
He made it 200 yards before collapsing in a ditch, where his body was found.
His accomplice managed to get away, and police are still looking for him.
Hillsborough County Sheriff's Maj. Frank Losat told NBC News : "Two unknown males broke in and made demands of them.
"The male victim, who is the homeowner, began to get pistol-whipped and beat up.
"During that incident, the female homeowner retrieved a firearm, which was in the house legally, and fired one round which struck the male victim that was deceased in the ditch."
He said he did not think the family was targeted randomly, but Mr King said he has no idea who the men are.
