
# Wife and lover who shared fantasies of killing wealthy farmer convicted of murder

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:48:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/world/wife-and-lover-who-shared-fantasies-of-killing-wealthy-farmer-convicted-of-murder-961817.html)

A wife and her lover have been convicted of murdering her wealthy farmer husband after revelling in violently pornographic fantasies of torturing and killing him for months.
Angela Taylor and Paul Cannon shared a “venomous hatred” for William Taylor, who had steadfastly refused to grant his wife of 20 years a divorce before vanishing just before his 70th birthday last June.
His skeletal remains were found waist-deep in mud by a passing fisherman on a secluded riverbank near one of his farms in Gosmore, Hertfordshire, eight months later.
The landowner’s body was so decomposed that determining a cause of death was impossible, experts told St Albans Crown Court.
Taylor, 53, and digger driver Cannon, 54, were jointly convicted of his murder by a jury of eight women and four men on Monday after little more than 11 hours of deliberations.
Grey-haired and burly Cannon, wearing a dark suit, shook his head as the verdicts were returned, while Taylor appeared to show no reaction.
Despite a lack of forensic evidence, jurors convicted the pair of murder after hearing over the course of the two-month trial dozens of violent WhatsApp messages expressing a desire to seriously harm Mr Taylor.
Mr Taylor, known as Bill, was last seen alive at his home of Harkness Hall at around 9pm on June 3 by his grandson Ben, who had taken him a Sunday roast.
In the following days Cannon sold a Suzuki 4×4 for cash before the vehicle ended up in Bulgaria, while Taylor got rid of her mobile phone, the trial heard.
But WhatsApp messages found on Cannon’s phone beginning in February last year showed the pair had enjoyed discussing sexually graphic and violent ways of seriously harming Mr Taylor, who suffered from both tinnitus and arthritis.
