
# Arsene Wenger explains why Unai Emery was right to sack Granit Xhaka as Arsenal captain

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:33:21+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsene-wenger-explains-unai-emery-20830171)

Arsene Wenger believes Unai Emery upheld Arsenal's values by sacking Granit Xhaka as Arsenal captain.
Xhaka was removed as skipper earlier this week in response to his furious outburst at fans who jeered him during a recent Premier League game.
The Swiss international has not played for Arsenal since the incident and is expected to be on the transfer list in January after Emery took a firm stance in his response to the actions.
Former Arsenal boss Wenger, who signed Xhaka but never used him as captain, believes that Emery had to make a quick decision on the midfielder - and had to consider Arsenal's values.
"I don’t talk a lot about Arsenal, I just support them," Wenger said during his punditry with BeIN Sports this week.
"I’m a supporter who wants a team to win, so that’s all.
"For me it’s very difficult to have any assessment on Arsenal because it will be straight away interpreted when you’ve been at the club for such a long time.
"So I’m just a supporter, when they don’t win I’m not happy, when they win I’m very happy."
Wenger was then pressed on Emery's decision to remove Xhaka as captain of the club and he said: "As a manager you have to face these kind of decisions.
"We always face the unexpected as a manager, you have to make quick decisions.
"I think Arsenal Football Club is respected all over the world because it’s built on values and everyone has to respect these values and the manager has to get them to be respected.
"Arsenal, for me, had always had a touch of class, for me football today in the modern era has a huge responsibility on the way we behave, the way were are examples.
"Arsenal are part of the big clubs in the world and we have to show that."
But Wenger continued a staunch defence of Xhaka when it was suggested to him that the Swiss international should not have reacted in that way.
"You can always but it doesn’t mean in any club. It’s not the motorway," he said.
"You have people with passion, with the pressure they are under, with the disappointment they carry out, they have sometimes reactions you don’t want.
"But you have to remind people of the behaviour you want.
"I think Xhaka is an intelligent player, contrary to what I heard in recent weeks.
"Finally he apologised and that’s what he [Emery] wanted from him."
