
# Misplaced Earnings Perceptions: Facebook, US Steel, Even Exxon, Alibaba and Halliburton

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Martin Sosnoff**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/martinsosnoff/2019/11/05/misplaced-earnings-perceptions--facebook-us-steel-even-exxon-alibaba-and-halliburton/)

Lemme begin with Exxon Mobil because it typifies a big capitalization stock whose management spells pure corperatese. They guide the Street within a penny or two of quarterly results. For an international operator whose downstream profits are volatile in refining and chemicals output, this is no easy proposition.XOM is a 5% yielder with a comfortable payout ratio that allows them to boast of sound annualized largess. Consider AT&T, also a 5% yielder, but with earnings’ changes measured in pennies. XOM ain’t a negative surprise piece of paper, but still a terrible performer, down over 30% from its 12-month high. Blame stinko oil quotes, the world awash in oil.
Life gets more exciting when you ladder down to US Steel with a market capitalization just $2 billion, down from $5.4 billion a year ago. Gross profit stands halved, with minimal EBITDA and negative free cash flow. US Steel lost 21 cents in its September quarter vs the consensus of minus 29 cents. Lo! and behold. The stock popped 15% overnight. Couldn’t this be a “darkest before dawn story?”
You can make a lot of money in “excess of pessimism” stocks, but I passed on X with formidable shut-in excess capacity, a worldwide condition, decade after decade. Management goes through all the motions of running a big business, but it’s cosmetic, governed by commodity prices, and now the imposed Trumpian tariff on steel.
I just bought into Halliburton whose 12-month price range plummeted from $36 a share to $17, ticking now over 20 bucks. Leading indicator for HAL is oil futures, near their low, mid-fifties but, mid-seventies not so long ago. Halliburton ticked at $60 just 2 years ago. So much for excessive optimism. They’ll take your pants down, every time. Traders saw $100 oil coming.
Present earnings rate for this well driller looks like $1.20 a share. Woof! We’re buying into a prime oil service property at 16 times depressed earnings, a much cheaper valuation then Schlumberger, known at trading decks as Slob. The S&P 500 Index at 18 times earnings carries no leveraged numbers in a slow GDP setting.
Not normally an operator in ragamuffins, locus of my animals rests in big capitalization growthies. They too, contain comparable issues on earnings and valuation. Consider 5 stocks: Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, Amazon and Alphabet comprise nearly 20% of the S&P’s valuation. Apple and Microsoft are trillion-dollar horses. Amazon, Alphabet and Facebook not so far behind. 
Throw in Alibaba, still outside the S&P 500, with phenomenal growth intact. Analysts badly underpegged numbers for Facebook, BABA, even Microsoft, but waxed high on Amazon and Alphabet. For market operators, misses, as many as winners, doesn’t do the job.
Facebook’s bad press makes it a controversial piece of paper.  Is Zuck out of control? Regulators think so. Let’s break em up with Instagram independent. FB is an easy-to-hate political hot potato. But start parsing FB’s quarterly and a different, sober, picture emerges. This is a company bent on renewing itself. Take R&D spending, an enormous 20% of revenues. Apple underspent for years. Even Alphabet and Microsoft don’t ever get over a 15% spend. Maybe FB’s pissing away their money, maybe not.
I see the pivotal valuation metric as operating income, the wherewithal management works with to grow their footprint. Here we see op income growing at a 20% clip. On a market capitalization of $600 billion FB sells at a 20 multiple of next year’s earning power and at 15 times my projection of cash flow. This yield, over 6%, puts it in a select category. Sooner or later attention is paid.
What about Facebook as a stock? Well, the old story is you gotta be early. Five years ago, FB ticked at $80, up now 150%. But, past 2 years it’s hardly ahead 10%. Net, net, Zuck’s controversiality is ever present, reflected in cautious valuation. His image can improve, not in the press, but on the Street. From present level FB can track earnings growth maybe, mid-teens.
Alibaba, in another property shortchanged by the market. BABA is everything Amazon would like to become. E-Commerce business brings plenty down to the bottom-line, funding ventures like cloud computing. I see BABA’s one-third interest in ANT Financial’s money management reach a few years out worth a couple of hundred billion.
Why does the market turn up its nose at BABA’s breathtaking numbers? Latest quarter we’re talking revenues ahead 40% and EBITDA up 39%. All this reminds me of Polaroid and Xerox in their hay day, even Mr. Sam’s Walmart. Until early seventies, these properties were rated as 1-decision stocks and sold anywhere from 40-60 times earnings, sometimes even more. Analysts told their clients to expect 2% monthly price appreciation.
Is everyone now afraid of China’s growth rate sloughing off? Maybe, but maybe they’re off base.
A leading indicator of BABA’s growth rate is number of frequent users. (MAV’s) Still growing around 4%, reaching 785 million this past September. For core commerce, BABA’s growth rate in EBITDA is 29%. No big cap retailer, anywhere, carries such numbers in hand. Non-GAAP quarterly operating income grows at a 30% clip at 1.83 per share.
Twelve months ahead, I see BABA at 20 times earnings. Costco sells over 30 times, Walmart at 24 times earnings. Operating cash flow at BABA runs at a $25 billion clip, a huge number for management to work with. This ain’t Macy’s struggling to survive Amazon’s onslaught.
Oversimplified, my belief in China’s soundness and Alibaba’s e-commerce footprint, you’re below fair value. Five years ago, BABA traded at $120 and has backed and filled between $200 and $130 past couple of years. Maybe it carries an “inscrutable” stigma, but it gets my money. Sooner or later, the footprint matters. Amazon is an enigma, not Alibaba.

        
          Sosnoff and / or his managed accounts own Alibaba, Facebook, Alphabet, Halliburton, Microsoft.
        
      
