
# Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain explains how Liverpool training has changed since injury

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:56:02+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/alex-oxlade-chamberlain-explains-how-20798473)

Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain has described how his serious knee injury has forced him to change his training routine at Liverpool.
Midfielder Oxlade-Chamberlain missed 364 days of action after he damaged his cruciate ligament during the Reds Champions League semi-final first leg against Roma in April 2018.
He only managed to make two appearances last season - 15 minutes in the Premier League off the bench - and has slowly been given more minutes by Jurgen Klopp this term.
The former Arsenal ace has made 10 appearances for Liverpool, along with an outing for England, and has netted three goals in his last three appearances.
Despite appearing to ease back into the first-team at Anfield, Oxlade-Chamberlain has revealed how he has had to go for a pre-training warm up to make sure he is ready to put his body on the line.
[Training's] changed," Oxlade-Chamberlain told GQ. "There are certain things that I have to make sure I look after.
"I can’t just turn up and go and train now, I still have to get some treatment on my knee before going into the gym for pre-activation.
"This helps to get myself fired up and be ready to go out and train.
"Obviously, with a major injury like mine, you get back to playing but your body is still adapting.
"So I still feel aches from time to time but I always make sure that I’m warmed up.
"It’s the same with any long injury, it changes things, you just have to adapt to that."
Last week, manager Klopp explained why Oxlade-Chamberlain hasn't been starting as many games since his return.
"He has scored, nice, both at Genk, a real stunner on Wednesday, a lot of outstanding moments, but other moments he is not involved," the German said.
"We always have to try to reach perfection. He still needs rhythm but that is no problem. He is a long-term project.
"It is good a player thinks he is not at his best. He could think he is because he scored some goals. Quite some space for improvement. That is good.
"Best shape ever before injury? He was exceptional."
