
# Coming in IPL 2020: Exclusive no-ball umpire

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:17:43+00:00**

Author: **Gaurav Gupta**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/ipl/top-stories/coming-in-ipl-2020-exclusive-no-ball-umpire/articleshow/71932414.cms?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=TOIDesktop)

MUMBAI: The 2020 edition of the IPL could have a special umpire just to monitor no-balls. The idea was floated and accepted well at a meeting of the IPL Governing Council, chaired by former India batsman Brijesh Patel, at the BCCI HQ here on Tuesday.
It's still not clear, though, if that 'special umpire' would be the third or fourth umpire, or a new gentleman in the umpiring team altogether.
The need for this new rule seems to have been instigated by a number of cases in the last IPL when the umpires didn't give genuine no balls, costing teams matches from a crucial position.
A primary case was India and Royal Challengers Bangalore skipper Virat Kohli coming down heavily on umpire S Ravi after the final delivery of their match against the Mumbai Indians, bowled by pacer Lasith Malinga, turned out to be 'no-ball' which was not awarded to the losing team.
"We are playing at the IPL level. It's not club level, the umpires should have their eyes open. That was a big no-ball," a livid Kohli had said at the post-match presentation ceremony. Even MI captain Rohit Sharma was critical of the standard of umpiring during the match.
"During the next IPL, you may see another umpire, apart from the regular umpires just to 'observe' the no-balls. The concept sounds weird, but this was among the issues discussed in the first IPL Governing Council meeting which was held here," a senior GC member told reporters after the meeting.
"We want to use the technology. We are having another umpire for only observing no-balls. There will be an umpire, who will be focused on no-balls only. He may not be third or fourth umpire," he said.
The innovative concept of having such umpires could be tried at any of the domestic tournament before a final call will be taken on it.

        YES TO NO-BALL UMPIRES
      
o The IPL will see an exclusive TV umpire just for monitoring no-balls from the 2020 edition onwards.
o This extra match official may be separate from the third and fourth umpires. He will use the tech to help on-field officials monitor no-balls.
o Matches with an extra umpire likely to be trialled in a domestic tournament like the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament and Ranji Trophy.
o Controversial no-ball calls have dogged the IPL in recent times. Earlier this year, both Virat Kohli and MS Dhoni criticised wrong no-ball calls.
o The ICC, incidentally, has also decided to conduct trials with an umpire monitoring front-foot no-balls.
