
# Milton Keynes house party stabbing police arrest boy, 16, over murder of Dom Ansah and Ben Gillham-Rice

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:19:11+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/milton-keynes-house-party-stabbing-17183066)

A 16-year-old boy has been charged with two counts of murder after 17-year-olds Dom Ansah and Ben Gillham-Rice were stabbed to death at a house party in Milton Keynes last month.
A Thames Valley Police statement said: "A third person has been charged as Thames Valley Police continues its murder investigation in Milton Keynes.
"Yesterday, a 16-year-old boy from Milton Keynes was charged with two counts of murder and two counts of attempted murder.
"The charges are in connection with the deaths of Ben Gillham-Rice and Dom Ansah, both aged 17, who were killed on Saturday, 19 October.
"The boy has been remanded in custody to appear at Milton Keynes Magistrates' Court today."
The boy was detained on Wednesday evening by police investigating the deaths of 17-year-olds Dom Ansah and Ben Gillham-Rice in Milton Keynes.
 
Mr Ansah died from a stab wound to the back, while Mr Gillham-Rice was knifed in the chest in the attack at a party in the Emerson Valley estate on October 19.
The arrest comes after two men were charged over the house party deaths.
Earl Bevans, 22, of no fixed address, appeared before High Wycombe Magistrates' Court on Saturday charged with two counts of murder.
 
He also faces two counts of attempted murder after Ryan Brown, 23, and a 17-year-old boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were left with serious but not life-threatening injuries in the incident.
Charlie Chandler, 21, of Fitzwilliam Street, Bletchley, was also charged with two counts of murder and two of attempted murder.
A 27-year-old man arrested on Saturday on suspicion of conspiracy to murder was later released under investigation.
