
# Chris Evans' Response To James Dean's New Film Is What We're All Thinking

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:12:33+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/chris-evans-response-to-james-deans-new-film-is-what-were-all-thinking-19303140)

James Dean is making a return to the big screen in a brand new role — over 50 years after his death — and Captain America is not happy about it. After news broke that that Dean was posthumously cast in the upcoming action film Flying Jack, Chris Evans responded to James Dean's new movie on Twitter. And basically, he's saying what everyone is really thinking.
On Wednesday, Nov. 6, The Hollywood Reporter announced that Dean, the iconic film heartthrob who died in a car crash in 1955 at the young age of 24, would be brought back to life onscreen in Flying Jack, an upcoming action-drama that takes place during the Vietnam War. His character Rogan, who the outlet describes as a "secondary lead character", will be constructed with "full body" CGI using actual footage and photos of Dean — but another actor will voice the role.
Evans responded to the new developments by retweeting THR's announcement and making his feelings very clear. "I’m sure he’d be thrilled," he quipped, followed by an eyeroll emoji. He then took on a more serious tone, calling the news "awful," noting that an artist like Dean simply cannot be replicated with new technology. "Maybe we can get a computer to paint us a new Picasso. Or write a couple new John Lennon tunes," he said. "The complete lack of understanding here is shameful."
