
# State Elections: Why Democrats’ Wins In Kentucky And Virginia Spell Trouble For Trump In 2020

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Isabel Togoh**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/isabeltogoh/2019/11/06/state-elections-why-democrat-wins-in-kentucky-and-virginia-spell-trouble-for-trump-in-2020/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2802822533&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

Topline: President Donald Trump suffered a key defeat in the last state elections before next year’s presidential election as Democrat Andy Beshear claimed victory over incumbent Republican governor Matt Bevin in the conservative-leaning state of Kentucky.
Key background: Last night’s results come at a crucial time for Donald Trump, as he rallies support for his reelection campaign and against a congressional impeachment inquiry that is quickly gaining traction. The day before the election, Trump tried to boost the Bevin campaign with a rally in Lexington in which he warned that a loss for Bevin would strengthen the House Democrats’ plan to impeach him for pressuring Ukraine’s leader to investigate Joe Biden’s son. At the rally, Trump said that Democrats seizing the governor’s mansion in Frankfort would be “the greatest defeat in the history of the world.” After votes were counted, Trump embarked on damage control by hailing his part in boosting Bevin’s poll numbers.
Still, last night’s result could spell trouble for next year, as Trump won Kentucky by 30 points in 2016. Beshear’s win also poses a threat to Senate majority leader and Kentucky Senator Mitch McConnell, who is up for reelection in 2020.
What to watch for: A possible review of the vote. Despite Beshear claiming victory with a majority of more than 5,000 votes, Bevin is still not conceding and has cited “irregularities.” He points to a “process being followed” before he admits defeat. For a review to take place, Bevin would need to formally request one from the secretary of state or the county board of elections would have to find a discrepancy in the process, according to USA Today.
It’s worth noting that Bevin faced a recanvassing process after his narrow 2015 win against James Comer in the primaries for governor, in which he achieved a drastically smaller majority of 83 votes. Comer requested the review, but the result went unchanged.
