
# Anger should be vented at architects of union's probable demise

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:59:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/opinion/letterstotheeditor/2019/11/01/news/anger-should-be-vented-at-architects-of-union-s-probable-demise-1753168/)

Commentators of all shades have enthused a plethora of opinions on the unceasing saga of Brexit and the potential ramifications this British/Tory/ERG inspired Hari-Kari will have on ‘the north of Ireland’. With a nuanced mixture of optimism and grim pessimism some outline the pros and cons and ‘meteoric prosperity’ with the opportunity to ‘stand on one’s own feet free from the fetters of Europe’. Others paint a depressingly morose picture accentuating ‘The Storm on the Sea of Galilee’ and its unleashing fury. There is no doubt there is sure to be a knock-on effect from this calamitous nightmare. There is a suggestion, however, all are ignoring the elephant in the room as it must also be acknowledged the role the chief protagonists played in the ‘unfortunate series of events’ currently on display in the British parliament – the DUP whose 15 minutes of fame ended with the demise of the previous PM and whose stifling tactics threatened the tenure of her replacement.
Before his elevation Boris had been worshipped by the DUP, invited to the heartlands for dinner where he was even referred to on a first name basis as if he was their pal. His ascension at Westminster witnessed the same DUP fall over themselves as they bent the knee to their perceived saviour. PM Boris, however, informed his erstwhile friends “his way is the only way”. Acquiescing to his vision the DUP signed up to his plans, little knowing the perfidy they were endorsing. They even encouraged him to travel to Dublin and confront Leo. Discombobulated with the resulting deal an acrimonious split ensued as the hierarchy screamed ‘betrayal’.
Summoned back to Belfast to explain their rational to the electorate and representatives of loyalism, Arlene and co passed the buck and blamed everyone else for their obtuseness then issues warnings about ‘civil disobedience’. Loyalism has heard it all before with blustering rhetoric leading them up the garden path while peerages were bestowed. If anger is to be vented it should be at the architects instrumental in the probable demise of the union.
KEVIN McCANNBelfast BT1
 

        For an electoral carrot anything might be said or done
      
Manus McDaid (October 29) says  “Sinn Féin supported the Good Friday Agreement”. The record says different.
It declined to sign the document, or campaign for a referendum ‘Yes’ vote. It then claimed ministerial posts in government, while retaining an illegal military wing and refusing to support the police. The “not a bullet, not an ounce” procrastination, against the expressed will of the Irish people, led to several Stormont suspensions, before double agent Denis Donaldson’s spying escapades finally collapsed it. Later, SF secretly agreed to alter key provisions of the agreement and to restrict north/south bodies, all to suit the DUP. Then the Northern Bank heist put the GFA on a life support machine.      
The record also shows Sinn Féin with two consistent aims – one a lust for power; the other making Northern Ireland ungovernable.However, the primary lust for power tempted SF into supporting the PSNI (with intelligence gathering going to MI5) as the price for getting into bed with the DUP.
As for one more wee concession now, to the UDA – such as publicly saying to the dissidents; “look we tried it and it did not work – and it’s not going work this time either – might not happen.”  But for an electoral carrot anything might be said or done.So hold the presses for yet more “hugely significant, seismic, historic, courageous, momentous and unprecedented decisions” – as every SF somersault, from the IRA’s “permanent” ceasefire is routinely described.
BRIAN ROONEYDownpatrick, Co Down
 

        Let’s have SF candidates concerned with promoting a united Ireland
      
Spotlight on Tuesday  night interviewed political representatives on the evening when a new British general election was agreed.  Not surprisingly, Sinn Féin chose Elisha McCallion as its representative for the programme, given that its representation of the Foyle constituency is severely under threat as per recent election results.
During the programme, Sinn Féin’s abstentionism in Westminster was contrasted to the impact that the DUP has had on politics there.  Like her aunt, Martina Anderson, Elisha tried to suggest that Sinn Féin’s influence has been central to the free state government’s, EU government’s and institutions’ directions regarding the Brexit situation.  The truth is that Sinn Féin’s influence has been negligible.  While I would never advocate taking seats in Westminster, the fact is that Sinn Féin has been totally inadequate in converting its political mandate into political influence.
Elisha McCallion on Spotlight tried to suggest that the upcoming general election was important in terms of the constitutional issue regarding a united Ireland but the truth is that Sinn Féin is not promoting a constitutional debate and, as Elisha herself indicated, Sinn Féin is keen to have the Stormont institutions back up and running. Let’s have candidates that are solely concerned with the constitutional issue and promoting a united Ireland.
SEAN O’FIACHBelfast BT11
 

        Fascinating music scene
      
Aneat and informative article on Muriel Day (October 21).
Northern soul is a fascinating underground music scene catering to collectors of rare soul/dance records usually imported from the US.
In 1969 Muriel released a song Nine Times Out of Ten.  It was voted 306 in the top 500 all-time Northern Classic List.
A rare original in mint condition on the Page One label may be worth £300.  Some lucky reader might have a copy stored in the attic or garage.
BRIAN WILSONCraigavon, Co Armagh
 

        Representation at Westminster
      
All political decisions affecting my life are made in Westminster where, as an anti-unionist I have no MP to protect my interests. So I see no benefit in voting. I accept SF’s position re abstention but –  to use an analogy – the best surgeon in the world needs to go into a theatre to attend to his patients’ urgent  needs.
So, by all means get rid of DUP partisan and self-interested puppets but it must be better to work from the inside and develop useful contacts in a fast-changing political landscape.
JOHN McCULLAGHNewry, Co Down
