
# Postcode Plottery - family of lady who lived in town for 88 years charged double at cemetery

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:01:54+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Houston**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/postcode-plottery-family-lady-who-20822968)

She lived in Ayr for no less than 88 years – but her family have now been charged DOUBLE to inter her remains back in the old town.
Betty Weir moved into care in East Ayrshire and was ruled not to be local anymore.
Now her family have savaged the harsh policy of South Ayrshire Council as it emerged they operate a postcode lottery.
And her daughter Marylyn said: “We saved them a fortune as East Ayrshire Council provided part of the care fees.
“Now the greedy beggars have hit us in the pocket.
“It is a real slap in the face and we want the rules changed for other families.
“This is outrageous – and Betty would be very angry about this.
“Born and bred in Ayr does not mean a thing to greedy South Ayrshire Council.
“I spoke to a female employee and all she would say is, ‘It’s just the way it is.’
“We want this indecent charge scrapped for other families. This is not about the money, it is about principal.”
Her ashes were interred in the family plot at Ayr Cemetery, alongside her husband Jackie, who was a well-known bus driver.
The usual cost is £186 – but Betty’s family was charged £372.
Her son-in-law Ron Fraser said: “After 88 years of living in Ayr, this is unbelievable.
“East Ayrshire do not do this, they don’t charge double if you are living in the wrong postcode.”
Mum-of-two Betty, who died aged 90 in July, spent her career on the counters of Hourstons department store.
She finally left her home in Main Road, Whitletts, two years ago for sheltered housing in Kilmarnock, to be nearer to her daughters Marylyn and Elaine.
Betty was the youngest of six children and is survived by a sister who is now aged 99.
She didn’t move to Kilmarnock until December 2016, before moving to a care home in Fenwick in 2017.
Incredibly this week South Ayrshire Council refused to back down.
And seemed to say that if they had shelled out for care fees they would have cancelled the extra charge.
A spokeswoman said: ”Our policy states that non-residents are charged a 100% surcharge for burial or internment of cremated remains.
“If the person has lived out of the area for under two years, or South Ayrshire Council have contributed to any Nursing Home fees, then the extra charge is waived.”
