
# On KBC Amitabh Bachchan forced to recreate scene from Coolie on KBC, watch what Jaya Bachchan and son Abhishek had said on accident

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:49:40+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/on-kbc-amitabh-bachchan-forced-to-recreate-scene-from-coolie-on-kbc-watch-what-jaya-bachchan-and-son-abhishek-had-said-on-accident/271562/)

An old video of famous TV host Simi Grewal interviewing KBC host Amitabh Bachchan about his life-threatening accident while shooting Coolie recently trended on the internet. The highlight of the interview was the revelation on Jaya Bachchan’s revelation that son Abhishek almost had a nervous breakdown after one of his friends teased him saying that his father was going to die soon. Days after the Simi Grewal’s old interview trended, Bachchan was forced to recreate a famous dialogue from that ill-fated film.
The KBC host had no option but to walk down memory lane as he asked one of his contestants a question about his 1983 blockbuster Coolie. One of his questions during a recent episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati was about a famous character from the film.
The question read, “Who is Allah Rakha in the film ‘Coolie’?” The options were ‘an elephant,’ ‘a bird,’ ‘a dog,’ and ‘a child.’ The correct answer was ‘a bird’ and the contestant had little trouble in answering the question.
Bachchan explained, “There was a popular dialogue from the film Coolie. Bachpan se hai sar par Allah ka haath aur Allah Rakha hai mere saath. (I have the blessings of Allah since my childhood because I have Allah Rakha with me).”
Soon after the popular KBC host delivered the famous dialogue from Coolie, the contestant said that he had not seen a single celebrity, who could speak in Hindi with as much ease and confidence as in English. This left the Bollywood megastar blushing.
Bachchan recreating the popular scene from the 1983 hit film evoked a huge round of applause from the KBC audience. Directed by Manmohan Desai and Prayag Raj, Coolie’s screenplay was written by Kader Khan and KK Shukla.
