
# 'Typical Brit' cruise passengers carrying on drinking as water gushes over deck

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:57:22+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/typical-brit-cruise-passengers-carrying-20815575)

Cruise ship passengers were seen laughing and drinking their pints as the ship rocked violently in the middle of rough sea.
Marine engineer Calum Lawson, who was working on the P&O Ventura cruise ship, even filmed the moment a swimming pool sent torrent of water across the deck as it sailed between Cherbourg and Southampton on Sunday.
Children are heard screaming in the background as the water flushed chairs and tables aside.
But the adults seem unfazed and carry on enjoying their meal and drinking their pints - with some even lifting their legs up as the water flow past.
Calum, from Newcastle-upon-Tyne, shared the clip onto his Twitter on Sunday, branding the cruise passengers as 'typical Brits'.
 
He wrote: "Best part of this video is the amount of typical brits are so un-phased by any danger that occurs because 'they're on their jollies' n nothing can spoil that...b****** ships flooding man."
A man in a burgundy top said: "That's not a handful of water is it?"
Another video shows water from the swimming pool spill and surge onto the deck.
 
The clip has been viewed over 576,000 times in the past few days.
A spokesman for P&O told MailOnline: "Whilst sailing between Cherbourg and Southampton Ventura was required to make a precautionary manoeuvre which caused some pool water to spill over on to the deck.
"The Captain had anticipated this may happen and guests were advised in advance, pools were then subsequently emptied for safety."
'Jasewba' said: "It's not flooding. Rough seas and the pool is overlfowing. No need to panic at all."
'JTW' agreed and guessed it could be 'going over big waves and the ship rocking, spilling the pool water out'.
However others found the passengers' reaction quite bizarre.
Love Island star Molly-Mae Hague commented: "People aren't even getting up from their tables. Mad."
Some said it would be their worst nightmare whilst some said the cruise would be 'another one to tick off the list'.
