
# Terminator: Dark Fate Reviews – What Did You Think?!

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:57:27+00:00**

Author: **Blair Marnell**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/movies/470953-terminator-dark-fate-reviews-what-did-you-think)

Arnold Schwarzenegger always says that he’ll be back, but this past weekend, the Terminator wasn’t alone! Linda Hamilton also returned to the franchise as Sarah Connor in Terminator: Dark Fate. Additionally, this film threw all of the other sequels out as the “official” sequel to Terminator 2. Was this the Terminator film you’ve been waiting for? And can the franchise live again for another trilogy? We want to know what the Superhero Hype community thinks about it! This post is a place for all of you to leave your own reviews, thoughts, or anything else you want to say about the film.
You can read our review here. You can find all of SHH’s Dark Fate coverage here.
Mackenzie Davis, Natalia Reyes, and Gabriel Luna had the most prominent roles among the new cast. Davis portrayed, Grace, a cybernetically enhanced soldier, while Reyes played Daniella “Dani” Ramos. Luna stepped into the franchise as the Rev-9, a fearsome new Terminator model.
James Cameron returned to the franchise to co-write the story and produce the film. However, Tim Miller directed Dark Fate from a script by David Goyer, Justin Rhodes, and Billy Ray.
Terminator: Dark Fate is out in theaters now. Make sure to leave your reviews in the comment section below!

        Recommended Reading: Terminator: 2029 to 1984 (Graphic Novel)
      

        We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
      
