
# Pirates Name Two Chiefs Stars As Threats

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/two-kaizer-chiefs-stars-picked-as-threats-to-orlando-pirates/666516)

Orlando Pirates have picked two stars from Kaizer Chiefs as potential threats to their chances of progressing to the semi-finals of the Telkom Knockout. 
The two giants of South African football will go head-to-head tomorrow in the first of their two back-to-back derbies in a cup competition, with their first round league match set to follow next Saturday. 

        Read: Pirates Keeper’s Dissimilar Soweto Derby Perspective… 
      
While Pirates have showed improvement in their defence in recent matches, after they were conceding goals at an alarming rate earlier in the season, the club is still wary of the threat that the Chiefs duo of Khama Billiat and Samir Nurkovic can cause. 
In previewing the match, Pirates picked the two stars as key players for coach Ernst Middendorp’s team.
''It goes without saying that the Zimbabwean international will require some special attention from the Pirates defence," Bucs stated on the club's official website about Billiat, while emphasising about the ‘aerial prowess’ of Nurkovic. 

        Read: 11 Pirates Stars Itching For Soweto Derby Debuts 
      
Meanwhile, goalkeeper Wayne Sandilands who is one of the players that have ensured that Pirates has minimised the number of goals the team has conceded in last three matches, says the focus is on getting results after their disappointing start.
“Now that I am back playing again the focus is just on the team on trying to get results and on trying to get the club back into a good position. We know that we haven’t really started well. We know that there’s a lot of stuff about our game that needs to improve. So right now the focus from my side isn’t an individual one it more of a collective one,” said Sandilands, speaking to the Siya crew. 
