
# Who are the likely salary cap casualties if Saracens are forced to trim the fat?

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:40:29+00:00**

Author: **Alex Shaw**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/who-are-the-likely-salary-cap-casualties-if-saracens-are-forced-to-trim-the-fat)

Fresh off the back of England’s disappointment in the World Cup final in Yokohama last Saturday, the side’s Saracens contingent have been dealt the further blow of a £5.3m fine and 35-point Premiership deduction for salary cap infractions.
The investigation, which had been going on for the last seven months, found that Saracens failed to disclose payments to players in the 2016/17, 2017/18 and 2018/19 seasons and that the club had exceeded the ceiling for payments to senior players during each of those three seasons.
The club has been docked 35 points, which will see them sitting bottom of the table if the punishment isn’t successfully appealed.
In addition to the points deduction – which puts the club, at worst, at risk of relegation, or into Challenge Cup for the 2020/21 season at best – the financial repercussions will have a considerable influence on player recruitment and retention this season.
To use some American sports parlance, Saracens are potentially going to have to make some cap casualties in order to stay compliant in the future.

        (Continue reading below…)
      

        Click here to see the video
      
The investigation only found infractions during the past three seasons, but the club were still able to strengthen their squad this past summer with the additions of players such as Elliot Daly, Jack Singleton and Rhys Carre. It is reasonable to conclude, barring some significant retirements and/or restructured contracts, that the squad remains very close to the cap.
RugbyPass takes a look below at some of the players who may have to exit Allianz Park at the end of this season as the Gallagher Premiership club looks to balance the books and conform to the league’s salary cap requirements.

        Joel Kpoku
      
The towering lock is one of the best academy prospects to come out of Saracens over the last ten years and he has already been heavily linked with a move to Northampton Saints next season. Not one of Saracens’ current high earners, Kpoku won’t provide much salary cap relief for the reigning Premiership champions, but his loss would be sorely felt moving forward.
