
# Robbie Williams announces special London show and tickets go on sale this week

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:45:17+00:00**

Author: **Chantelle Symester, https://www.facebook.com/csymester/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/robbie-williams-christmas-party-wembley-20807185)

Robbie Williams is getting into the festive spirit by launching a new album and show celebrating everyone's favourite season - Christmas.
The British pop star is set to perform songs from his first ever Christmas album, which is released on November 22, and features plenty of covers of Christmas classics like Winter Wonderland and Santa Baby.
Williams will take to the stage at London's iconic SSE Wembley Arena on Monday 16 December.
Tickets to the one-off Christmas show officially goes on sale at 10am on Thursday 7 November from AXS and Ticketmaster .
Speaking about the forthcoming release Williams said, “I’m beyond excited to announce my first ever Christmas album. I’ve done a lot in my career and releasing this record is another dream come true. Making this album has been so much fun and I can’t wait for you all to hear it.”
The latest double album is Robbie's 13th and features guest appearances from fellow Brit stars like Rod Stewart and Jamie Cullen.
One collaboration that will definitely surprise fans on the album is Robbie's duet with controversial heavyweight boxer Tyson Fury .
The pair are favourites to hit the coveted Christmas number one spot this year with their track Bad Sharon - a catchy song about office Christmas party shenanigans (something we're sure many people will be able to relate to.
Robbie also worked with long-time collaborator Guy Chambers, who produced the majority of the record with Richard Flack.
Fans will be able to buy Robbie Williams - The Christmas Present from November 22 from Amazon and shop.robbiewilliams.com .
