
# Reports: Man Utd Want Struggling Real Madrid Striker

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/manchester-united/reports-manchester-united-want-struggling-real-madrid-striker/666747)

With a certain new Real Madrid signing struggling to get going in Spain, Manchester United are reportedly hoping to lure him to Old Trafford as they look to bolster their attack.

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
According to 90min, United are currently monitoring 21-year-old forward Luka Jovic, who has scored just one goal since his arrival at the Santiago Bernabeu at the beginning of the season.
Before he signed for the Spanish giants, the Serbian international was on the radars of many top clubs across Europe, but his first few months at the club have been less than impressive.
Jovic has managed to find the back of the net just once in 11 appearances, with many questioning whether he or not was the right signing for the team.

        
          Post Selfies On Soccer Laduma's Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now
        
      
The striker's rise over the last year and a half was rapid, after his incredible breakthrough 2018/19 season with Eintracht Frankfurt in Germany.
Jovic struck 27 times in 48 appearances across all competitions for the Bundesliga side, including 10 goals in 14 matches in the UEFA Europa League.

        
          11 Stars Who Suffered Horrible Leg Breaks
        
      
His goalscoring exploits earned him a €60 million (R990 million) move to the 13-time UEFA Champions League winners, but he is yet to win the Madrid club's fans over, and with United struggling for goals and the player himself wanting more game time, a move may be on the cards.
