
# Galaxy S10 Lite might have an even bigger battery than the Galaxy S10+

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:35:59+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/galaxy-s10-lite-might-have-even-bigger-battery-galaxy-s10?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Just last week, Samsung's rumored Galaxy S10 Lite had made an appearance on the Geekbench benchmark database, corroborating some previously rumored specs. Two new Galaxy S10 Lite leaks have now surfaced, shedding some more light on the phone's design and tech specs.
As per the listing for a variant of the rumored S10 Lite bearing model number SM-G770F on the Anatel website (via IndiaShopps), it will come with a massive 4,370mAh battery. That's significantly larger than the 3,100mAh battery inside the Galaxy S10e.
The bigger and more expensive Galaxy S10+ comes with a 4,100mAh battery, while the Galaxy Note 10+ has a 4,300mAh battery. Its larger battery, combined with lower Full HD+ resolution, could mean that the Galaxy S10 Lite will be even more impressive than the Galaxy Note 10+ in the battery life department.

        Source: USPTO
      
In terms of design, a patent filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) last month (via *AllAboutSamsung*) suggests the rumored Galaxy S10 Lite will have a somewhat similar design to the Galaxy S10+ on the front, with two selfie cameras. Just as expected, though, the top and bottom bezels on the device will not be as thin as the more premium Galaxy S10 models. We also see a vertical dual camera array at the back, along with an LED flash.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Unlimited Means Limited AT&T will pay $60 million after hiding data throttling The FTC has settled its case with AT&T for $60 million. AT&T was accused of failing to inform customers of its data throttling practice while marketing plans as "unlimited."
      

        It's Back This new Android Auto app fixes a problem Google created for newer phones Android Auto for phone screens has finally been released for users who lost access to Android Auto after the Android 10 update.
      

        A decent mid-ranger The Nokia 6.2 arrives in the U.S. with Android One for $249 The Nokia 6.2 with triple rear cameras and stock Android is now available in the U.S. for $249.
      

        Give me more storage Expand the Note 10+ storage with one of these microSD cards Samsung has unveiled the Galaxy Note 10+ which includes a microSD card slot, despite a base storage option of 256GB. We have compiled a list of the best microSD cards for your new Galaxy Note 10+.
      
