
# Jeremy Clarkson's plans to build Diddly Squat farm shop approved amid neighbour fury

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:24:51+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/jeremy-clarksons-plans-build-diddly-17211958)

Jeremy Clarkson has had controversial plans to build a 'Diddly Squat' farm shop on his country estate APPROVED.
The presenter's new project was met with fierce objection by locals who feared it could kill off nearby businesses when first pitched earlier this year.
But the scheme was given the green light by council officers yesterday (Tues) - leaving the 59-year-old free to start building.
The staunch Remainer has already received EU funding for his farm in Chadlington, Oxon. - which he has dubbed 'Diddly Squat' due to its poor crop yields.
The new development will include the "erection of a lambing shed and farm shop, including car parking and associated landscaping" which has "potential for occasional film-making", according to documents.
Conditions for the build include proper access routes, a surfaced car park and an agreement not to film for more than nine months in a 27-month period.
The former Top Gear host is currently making a farming show for Amazon Prime based on his experiences as an "inept townie".
But a planning statement published in July on behalf of Mr Clarkson said: "The primary reason for the proposed lambing shed and farm shop is to allow Diddly Squat Farm to diversify.
"The buildings will therefore be constructed regardless of whether filming takes place."
A statement from the local parish council, submitted in September, said: "Chadlington Parish Council has no objection to this application as long as filming is for farming activities only and local produce only is sold."
It also raised concerns about potential traffic hazards.
Numerous locals spoke about about the development prior to approval - fearing the presenter would damage the area's appeal.
But an email from a business development officer at West Oxfordshire District Council said Mr Clarkson's farm was "heavily reliant on the EU Basic Payment Scheme and has to plan ahead".
He added that it was "completely appropriate for the business to look at diversification".
Speaking to the BBC previously, Mr Clarkson said he didn't "blame" residents for their concerns - adding "otherwise what is the point in planning permission".
 
According to documents published online, the farm shop can sell goods made on the site and goods made by local producers - as long as the local authority has sanctioned the sale first.
This is so as to keep within the council's definition of 'local producer', which is someone based solely within West Oxfordshire boundaries.
The roof of the shop must also be covered in "materials" approved by the local authority.
A previous planning statement said the buildings would not be "as incongruous features in the wider Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty".
