
# Box Office: ‘Arctic Dogs’ Had One Of The Worst Opening Weekends Of All Time

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Travis Lee Bean**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/travisbean/2019/11/03/box-office-arctic-dogs-had-one-of-the-worst-opening-weekends-of-all-time/)

Lots of movies have bombed at the box office this year—Godzilla: King of the Monsters, Dark Phoenix, Serenity, Hellboy. But it seems this weekend has produced what may in fact be the worst performance of 2019.It’s a movie called Arctic Dogs. And if you haven’t even heard of it, then this news shouldn’t be too surprising. The film follows Swifty the fox, who tries to stop Otto Von Walrus from drilling beneath the Arctic surface to unleash gas that will melt the ice. It’s just another one of the dozens of cartoons that comes and goes from the theaters each year.
But this time it’s different. Because this animated movie has some big names: Jeremy Renner, James Franco, Alec Baldwin, Heidi Klum. And the movie opened in 2,844 theaters. And it was one of the few new wide releases hitting theaters this weekend.
The kicker? Early estimates show Arctic Dogs only made $3.1 million. Not only is that perhaps the worst showing of the year, but it’s one of the worst opening weekends of all time.
The per-theater average of Arctic Dogs comes to just $1,090. In 2019, only five movies with wide releases have had worse opening weekend averages: The Goldfinch ($1,053), Replicas ($1,019), The Pilgrim’s Process ($961), Noah: The Musical ($652) and Patterns of Evidence: The Moses Controversy ($254). But none of those movies opened in over 2,800 theaters. Most of them didn’t even eclipse 1,000 theaters.
In fact, according to Box Office Mojo, no movie in the history of cinema has premiered in that many theaters on opening weekend and had that poor of a showing. And it gets even worse when you consider the film’s $50 million budget.
Needless to say: that level of bombing has never existed in box office history.
