
# Despairing dad calls on court to lock up son who demanded drug money from him

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:38:47+00:00**

Author: **Rob Kennedy, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rob-kennedy/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/despairing-dad-calls-court-lock-20789324)

A despairing dad called on a court to lock up his son who persistently harassed him for drug money.
John Scott has been beset with problems at the hands of David Scott, the man who he says he is "embarrassed to call his son".
A court had previously imposed a restraining order on Scott forbidding him from going to his father's address, Chronicle Live reported .
But Scott, 38, flouted the order by repeatedly turning up at his dad's home, just days after being given a suspended prison sentence for burglary.
A court heard he wanted to say sorry to his dad and make amends - but his father told him to go away.
Scott, previously of Ashington, Northumberland, admitted breaching the restraining order and suspended sentence and has been jailed for 17 months.
A victim impact statement from his dad said: "He has destroyed me financially and emotionally and I'm embarrassed to call him my son.
"He is not the son I raised.
"If the court doesn't deal with him by way of a custodial sentence he will no doubt continue to harass me for more drug money until either he dies or I do."
On August 20 around 3pm, Mr Scott returned home after taking his wife to work and heard a knocking then saw his son at the living room window.
He told him to go away and said he shouldn't be there due to the restraining order.
Scott said he wanted to talk to his dad and that he was sorry but was told "sorry doesn't cut it".
On August 26 around lunchtime, he appeared at the living room window again and was told to go away.
At 3.15pm the same day, Scott returned and was again told to leave. He made threats to put the neighbours' windows in.
Then on August 28 he was back at the address again and was told to go away.
Scott pleaded guilty to breaching the restraining order and also breaching the suspended sentence imposed on August 8, for burglary.
He had been given the restraining order on July 3 together with an eight week sentence for harassing his dad.
Jailing him, Judge Tim Gittins said: "Initially, I accept, you were indicating remorse and wanting to apologise.
"Clearly, he rebuffed you, given the torment you have caused him and your family, more importantly warning you not to attend because of the restraining order, and you kept going back.
"It's a serious court order and it's incredibly wearing psychologically for your father and other members of your family given what you have put them through.
"For the foreseeable future you have burnt your bridges with your family. You are going to have to demonstrate you can be clean and stay clean before you can go anywhere near your family again.
"For their sanity, the court has imposed a order preventing you from going near them and if you breach it you will get a substantial sentence of imprisonment."
Nigel Hedley, defending, said drugs had played a big part in Scott's offending.
He added: "He was wanting to make amends, the wrong way, it's accepted, but he was trying to make amends with is father and sorting his life out.
"He is extremely remorseful for his actions, his conduct and his lifestyle. He wishes to change his lifestyle."
Mr Hedley added that Scott is clean of drugs and has reduced his methadone prescription.
