
# Celtic daft Rod Stewart says fans 'doing team proud' as star enjoys Rome with Glasgow singer

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark McGivern, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/mark-mcgivern/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/celtic-daft-rod-stewart-says-20827530)

Sir Rod Stewart travelled to Rome on Monday from his London home with Glaswegian songwriter John McLaughlin.
The Celtic mad legend told the Daily Record: “It has been a complete delight to be in Rome with all these dedicated Celtic fans.
“I identify with the club and its fans so strongly and I’ve spent a lot of time chatting to people and getting photos taken and just enjoying the good vibe. Trips like this are what it’s all about for the fans and I love it as much as they do.
 
“The supporters are doing Celtic proud by coming over here in such great numbers. They are a great bunch and they are so often the 12th man for the team when it comes down to it.
“I read that there might be more Celtic fans than Lazio fans in the stadium and that made me feel really proud.”
Sir Rod’s latest tour, kicking off this month, includes three Scottish dates at the SSE Hydro.
He said: “Scottish gigs are always so special to me and I mean that sincerely. I’m looking forward to getting to Glasgow again.”
 
The veteran star was wearing it well when he was spotted checking out some skinny jeans while shopping in Rome ahead of Celtic’s crunch Euro game in the Italian capital tonight.
Chart star Rod was seen shopping in Zara, Calvin Klein and Ralph Lauren with pals, after he had been spotted out partying with pals, including Scots singer songwriter John McLaughlin, earlier in the week.
The dapper singer is renowned for his unique style, and was famed for his love of skin tight jeans and stage outfits.
