
# The eBay code giving big discounts on TVs, PS4s and Nintendo Switches

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:58:57+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Hurrell**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/ebay-code-giving-big-discounts-17203926)

An eBay code can knock up to £75 off the price of game consoles, TVs, laptops and other electrical items from a host of retailers.
The code was launched by the site on Tuesday 5 November and cuts the price of any new item on the auction site by 10%. However, it will only be live until midnight on Wednesday 6 November.
Bargain hunters who enter the code PRISTINE at checkout and spend a minimum of £50 can get up to £75 off the price of big-ticket items from Currys PC World, Argos and AO and it does not involve any sign up.
The deal means that buying from major retailers via their eBay store can undercut a lot of early Black Friday sales.
Deal hunters have already spotted a Sony PS4 bundle including a 500gb console with the new Call of Duty: Modern Warfare game for just £188.99, down from £209, by using the code.
 
Argos has Samsung 55-inch TV sets for £395, down from £439 using the code, as well as Bush 49-inch TV for £222. Other deals include a Nintendo Switch Lite for just £180 via Argos' eBay store.
Tablets, smart phones and vacuum cleaners are also reduced using the code. A Shark vacuum cleaner sold by AO is now £179, down from £215, once the code is entered.
The deal only works on new items and not on auction items. Those who want to use the code will need to visit a retailer's eBay store that sells new items to take advantage.
 
The deal comes on the same day Amazon has announced the dates of its Black Friday sale. The online giant, and major rival to eBay, says it will launch Black Friday deals from 22 November, a full seven days before Black Friday on 29 November.
With Cyber Monday just three days after Black Friday is will be nearly two weeks of deals once Amazon launches its Black Friday sale.
Currys PC World will also take place in the Black Friday sales for electrical items. It does not have any Black Friday deals live but has cut the price of TV sets in an early sale.
