
# City report suggests options to save Beltline, Inglewood pools too pricey

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:12:56+00:00**

Author: **Alanna Smith**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/city-report-suggests-options-to-save-beltline-inglewood-pools-too-pricey)

The fight is far from over for the Inglewood Community Association, which vows to keep the local pool open despite city administration’s recommendation to move forward with its closure.
Following significant public consultation and number crunching, city bureaucrats have arrived back at their original conclusion to shut down community pools in Inglewood and the Beltline to help the city’s bottom line — unless city councillors choose to revisit sweeping budget cuts, according to a report set to go before the city’s finance committee on Tuesday.
Meanwhile, vocal advocates of the Inglewood pool refuse to back down.
“This pool is all we have,” Naomi Withers, Inglewood Community Association spokesperson, said Saturday.
“It’s not just about the people that lane swim; it’s the seniors that get together and get out of the house because they see their friends. It’s the birthday parties. It means a lot to our neighbourhood and the people who use the pool.”
She said the facility’s reach expands far beyond the Inglewood community limits and its closure would be a disappointment to many in Calgary.
Both the aging Inglewood Aquatic Centre and the Beltline Aquatic & Fitness Centre are scheduled to close in the new year as part of the city’s $60-million package of budget cuts. In July, city council agreed to continue funding the two pools proposed for closure until the end of the year to allow time for consultation with the affected communities.
According to the report from city bureaucrats, none of the options examined that could potentially keep the facilities open could be done within the city’s current balance sheet.
“After analyzing business and service continuity options for Beltline and Inglewood facilities, Administration determined that continuing aquatics services cannot be done within base operating budget,” reads the report’s conclusion.
“Whether operated by The City or a partner, additional tax-supported operating and capital funding would be required. The success of any changes to the operating model would be severely limited by operating and capital budget challenges, without redevelopment or repurposing of the existing facilities.
Withers said their community members, and people from surrounding neighbourhoods, attended every engagement session possible to show the value of the Inglewood pool. They even hosted a rally in August with concerned residents urging the city to re-think its decision.
However, according to the city report, administration explored the feasibility of four alternatives: increase user base and generate additional revenue; decrease hours to reduce costs; make the pools partner-operated; and investigate re-purposing of the facility. Ultimately they concluded the options weren’t suitable.
Costs ranged from $432,000 to keep only the Beltline facility in operation to as much as $100 million to plan and build new recreational facilities.
“It’s up to our councillors to really recognize the social benefit and think beyond the $400,000 that they’ll save closing the pool,” said Withers.
It’s estimated it would cost between $400,000 and $800,000 to continue operations of both facilities and the city would have to chip in a potential capital investment of $5.2 million over the next five years to repurpose the aging pools.
She said the community organization is meeting with area Coun. Gian-Carlo Carra on Nov. 10 and is hosting a community pool party to further engage with local residents.
“In no way is this a closed issue if our councillor wants to engage us (after) the finance meeting coming up,” said Withers.
The Inglewood association wants the city to determine the feasibility of two options: engaging a non-profit or other third-party organization to take over operations of the Inglewood pool and providing bridge funding to continue operations for five years while stakeholders improve community-based programming.

        alsmith@postmedia.com
      
Twitter: @alanna_smithh
