
# Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker Actor Greg Grunberg Is Teasing Some Big News About Snap Wexley

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:10:50+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483801/star-wars-the-rise-of-skywalker-actor-greg-grunberg-is-teasing-some-big-news-about-snap-wexley)

Written By
For quite a while, we’ve known that actor Greg Grunberg was going to reprise his role as Resistance X-Wing pilot Snap Wexley in director J.J. Abrams’ Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker. But now at this late stage in the game, when advanced tickets are already on sale and people are finalizing their moviegoing plans to witness the end of an era, Grunberg is promising something big involving Wexley’s resurgence in the Star Wars universe.
That promise came through this message via a social media post, which seems to indicate why we have to wait for the big reveal:
As it turns out, the return of the character that originated in Abrams’ previous entry in the series, Star Wars: The Force Awakens, isn’t the end all/know all knowledge to Snap Wexley’s recurring role in the series. And it’s apparently something so big, Greg Grunberg needs official confirmation by the higher ups at Lucasfilm to spill the beans. Now while we’re not so sure what this particular news pertaining to Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker could be, the possibilities are limitless.
For all we know, Star Wars Rebels will somehow be integrated into the canon of the live-action films, making that sweet easter egg in the final trailer something more than just a cool nod. In which case, the door would be wide open for animated canon, or even canon for Disney+ shows like The Mandalorian to cross over onto the big screen in a greater capacity than ever before. Which could explain why Snap Wexley wasn't in Star Wars: The Last Jedi, to be honest.
Or it could be that the fellow obscure Resistance pilot Stomeroni Starck, played by Noah Segan in Rian Johnson’s Star Wars: The Last Jedi, actually survived the presumably fatal explosion of his spacecraft. In which case, the space battle sequences during this final Skywalker Saga entry could be something even more special than previously anticipated, with Snap and Stomeroni teaming up like the hot shots they are. That's even bigger than the potential Reylo action that Daisy Ridley previously alluded to.
This post from Greg Grunberg’s Twitter is so vague, we’re not sure where it’s going. But if it’s as big as the actor is building it up to be, we could even see the first indications of the new future of Star Wars. If that means get a fighter pilot spinoff in the legendary franchise, in order to fill the void currently left by the departure of David Benioff and D.B. Weiss’ previously planned trilogy, then we'll purchase our tickets now, please.
As soon as this news breaks, you can be sure that we'll provide that update, whether it's the best of times or worst of times. Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker flies into theaters on December 20, and you can buy advanced tickets now! Or, if Star Wars isn’t your thing, you can always head over to our 2019 release schedule and find a different movie to enjoy over the holidays.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
