
# Russia's Federal Tax Service Questions Data Used by World Bank's Doing Business Index

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:36:46+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/business/201911061077239209-russias-federal-tax-service-questions-data-used-by-world-banks-doing-business-index/)


        MOSCOW (Sputnik) - Russia's Federal Tax Service (FTS) questions the data that the World Bank's team behind the Doing Business Ranking used in its assessment of the country and would like the World Bank to look into the situation, the agency said.
      
In 2019, Russia moved up to number 28 — from number 31 — on the Ease of Doing Business index, but, according to the tax agency, the data cited in the index is very different from the information gathered via polls and independent experts.
One of the criteria used for the index is how long it takes to file taxes. According to the World Bank, businesses in Russia will spend 159 hours per year on average doing this. Meanwhile, polls among clients of 1C — one of the major accounting software developers —show that this is more likely to take 32 hours. FTS polls based on the index methodology suggest 10 hours.
According to the researchers, the number of taxes that businesses have to pay grew from seven to nine after the FTS became tasked with handling insurance premiums. However, the tax agency pointed out that social security payments used to be collected by three organisations. Now, only one agency is handling them, and three payments can be put on one filing form. The index team has not taken into account the fact that this change saves time, the FTS said.
There were some inconsistencies regarding the registration of a business as well. The World Bank did not take into account the fact that state registration became free of charge when paperless. Meanwhile, more than 50 percent of new companies are filing online, according to FTS.
The index team similarly ignored the fact that seals stopped being obligatory for certain types of companies.
The expert questioned the World Bank's use of data from anonymous respondents.
The World Bank questioned 228 respondents, 22 of whom answered questions on paying taxes. The FTS remarks that most of them were international consulting companies, but the index team provides no information on them. At the same time, the Russian authorities have never asked for their personal information.
The agency said it had been cooperating successfully with the World Bank and knew that its specialists had expert knowledge on the best global practices. The FTS added that it regretted "the absence of an informative professional dialogue" with Doing Business team on taxes.
