
# Billionaire GOP Donors Predict Stock Market Drop If These Democrats Win

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Sergei Klebnikov**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/sergeiklebnikov/2019/11/05/billionaire-gop-donors-predict-stock-market-drop-if-these-democrats-win/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2800323146&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

Topline: With the 2020 election growing ever nearer, several billionaires—mostly Republican—are predicting what will happen to the stock market, which recently hit new record highs, based on different 2020 election outcomes—especially if more progressive Democratic candidates win the election and are able to enact proposed wealth taxes.
Big numbers: Paul Tudor Jones has a net worth of $5.1 billion, while Leon Cooperman is worth $3.2 billion, Steve Cohen is worth $13.6 billion and Stanley Druckenmiller is worth $4.7 billion, according to Forbes estimates.
Chief critic: While billionaires—and much of Wall Street—seem to be most afraid of a Warren presidency, that would actually not hurt markets as much as everyone thinks, according to David Zervos, chief market strategist at Jefferies. “People forget she’s not that different from Obama. If you put the two of them side by side in 2007, they had very similar agendas—healthcare, regulation and financial, and energy and environment. From 2009 going forward, when Obama took office, we never looked back. The stock market just rallied,” he told CNBC.
Tangent: While it’s still too early for most political prognostication to begin, major economic forecasters are predicting Trump will easily win reelection in 2020, barring a major economic downturn. Moody’s analytics projects the president will win by a landslide 332 electoral votes, while Oxford Economics sees Trump winning 55% of the popular vote next year.
