
# TUI's winter 2020 holidays are already on sale if you're planning for next Christmas

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:47:27+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/news/tuis-winter-2020-holidays-already-20832625)

TUI has unveiled its winter 2020 holiday packages in what is the travel giant's biggest winter offering to date.
The firm has revealed heaps of extra getaways for Brits including the return of its Sharm el Sheikh holidays, a new hotel in Cape Verde and heaps of extra flights to the likes of Barbados, Mexico and the Dominican Republic.
In fact, it will be launching an extra two million seats by summer 2020, before adding yet another 180,000 for winter 2020 which will be for long-haul flights alone. That includes an increase in flights to the likes of the Canary Islands and Egypt.
The best part is that early birds can already get planning as the holidays are already on sale on the TUI website - in fact, you can bag breaks up to summer 2021.
You also can check out the full list of TUI's new hotels for 2020 for an extra dose of inspiration.
That includes holiday packages to Sharm el Sheikh following the FCO lifting travel restrictions for the first time since 2015.
As a result, TUI has resumed its packages to the Egyptian resort from February 2020, and now the company has confirmed this will continue into winter 2020 and beyond.
There are four hotels available to book including the 5T Magic Life Sharm El Sheikh and 5T Reef Oasis Blue Ray, while flights are also already open for bookings.
Meanwhile, the firm is also looking to expand its Cape Verde holidays by increasing the number of flights to the African islands, as well as offering a brand new hotel, the 5T Riu Palace Santa Maria which is part of the TUI Platinum Collection.
2020 will also see the launch of TUI Blue, where existing brands TUI Family Life and TUI Sensimar will be merged to become the new flagship brand which will include dedicated brands for families, couples and more.
The brand is looking to have 97 hotels across 18 countries by the summer, although it does plan to increase its portfolio.
The new programme comes just days after TUI announced it would be adding 135 new hotels previously offered by Thomas Cook to its portfolio.
