
# Calgary newcomer Indigo Rose to showcase silky R&B with Femme Wave set

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:25+00:00**

Author: **Eric Volmers**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/entertainment/music/calgary-newcomer-indigo-rose-to-showcase-silky-rb-with-femme-wave-set)

Indigo Rose took a fairly broad, universal approach when it came to the major theme of her debut EP, Indiglo.
Over six soulful R&B numbers, the Calgary-based singer-songwriter goes on a journey from “darkness to light.”
“I’m talking about finding my voice as an artist and just trying to express myself and sharing my music with the world,” explains Rose, who was born Amelia Eveta in Calgary. “It goes from melancholy songs to more happy and upbeat towards the end.”
It starts with the haunting Concrete Rose, a minute-and-a-half snapshot about survival. She than launches into the silky R&B strains of Free and L.Y.L.C, songs about toxic romantic entanglements and doubt wrapped in dreamily mellow vibes. But by the time she hits the appropriately titled closer, Happy, Rose has her “head in the clouds” and “chasing waterfalls.”
“I actually wrote that song when I was in a darker place,” she says. “It was almost like a prayer, wanting to move forward and move on with my life. I find a lot of people who do listen to my music tend to connect to that song the most, because I think it represents something that a lot of people have inside of them: wanting more, wanting to grow and improve our lives and move forward.”
It’s an ambitious run of tunes, particularly considering that Rose produced it all on her computer. Aside from a few collaborations with friends that were never completed as full songs, it’s also the first batch of songs to be recorded. She has been performing live for just under a year.
All of which makes her one of the newer artists to perform at Calgary’s feminist music and arts festival Femme Wave this year. Rose will be delivering a one-woman show at the McHugh House on Saturday, Nov. 9, which should hopefully help the performer graduate from best-kept-secret status.
While the songs on Indiglo are assured variations of R&B song craft, Rose’s secret weapon may be her voice. Relatively speaking, she had a bit of a late start when it came to singing. The Crescent Heights graduate studied classical piano as a child growing up in Calgary. But it wasn’t until university that she began singing and producing material seriously, mostly prompted by the realization that she was on the wrong path career-wise.
“I was actually going to Mount Royal for a little bit, taking journalism,” says Rose. “I was not really interested or feeling excited about it. So I thought ‘If I could do anything, what would I love to do?’ I felt I always had a connection, not so much with singing, but with writing. I always loved writing poetry and was very into lyrics. So that’s when I started dabbling a little bit, just learning how to write and writing full songs and exploring the creative process.”
She started making cautious forays into the various jams in the city. Along the way, she began experimenting with production with her computer and software. Inspired by artists such as Alicia Keyes and American alternative R&B singer-songwriter Jhené Aiko. While Rose hasn’t ruled out eventually leaving Calgary for cities with bigger R&B scenes, for now she is happy to stay in her hometown and work on her recordings and live show.
Femme Wave, which runs until Sunday, provides a sturdy showcase for Rose to find a larger audience.
“In Calgary, there’s a larger music scene and within that different offshoots,” she says. “There’s the hip-hop music scene and the folk music scene, which is really big in Calgary. But it’s nice to have something that is exclusively for women because it’s bringing together different genres. We get to see a lot of music that we may not even be aware of because they are all in their own lanes. It’s nice that everyone can come together and it gives opportunities to women that might not have a chance to play in a festival.”

        Indigo Rose plays the McHugh House on Saturday, Nov. 9 at 4 p.m. Visit femmewave.com. She will also perform as part of the NkwaGALA on Nov. 30 at the Glenbow Museum, a fundraiser for Kleos Microfinance Group.
      
