
# Wow, Student Loans Take 18.5 Years To Pay Off

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Zack Friedman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/zackfriedman/2019/11/04/student-loan-repayment-how/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2797547683&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

It takes 18.5 years to pay off student loans, according to a new poll.Here’s what you need to know.

        Pay Off Student Loans Faster
      
New York Life polled 2,000 respondents about their biggest financial regrets. As reported by CNBC, the average respondent says that it takes 18.5 years to pay off student loans, from age 26 to age 45.
Don’t become another student loan statistic. The latest student loan statistics show that more than 44 million borrowers collectively owe $1.6 trillion of student loan debt. Here are four ways to pay off student loans:

        1. Refinance your student loans
      
When it comes to student loan repayment, the best way to pay off student loans faster is to refinance student loans. Student loan refinancing rates have dropped significantly and are now among the lowest in recent memory.
You may be asking: Should I refinance my student loans? When you refinance student loans, you can refinance your existing federal student loans, private student loans or both into a new student loan with a lower interest rate. You can choose a fixed or variable interest rate, and can select a loan repayment term ranging from 5 to 20 years. The federal government does not refinance student loans, so if you want a lower interest rate, a private lender is your best option.
You can check your new interest rate online for free within two minutes with no impact to your credit score. You can also apply online in about 10-15 minutes. To get approved for student loan refinancing, you need to be employed (or have a written job offer), have a strong credit score and income, and a history of financial responsibility. When you refinance federal student loans, you will no longer have access to income-driven repayment, forbearance or deferral. However, when you refinance student loans, many lenders offer flexible payments, including potentially pausing your payments, if you lose your job or can't afford your student loan payments.
Here's an example of how much money you could save with this student loan refinance calculator. Let's assume that you have $60,000 of student loans at an 8% weighted average interest rate payable over 10 years, strong credit and income, and you can refinance those student loans with a private lender at 3%. When you refinance your student loans, you would save $149 each month and $17,832 total.

        2. Consolidate student loans
      
Federal student loan consolidation enables you to combine your existing federal student loans into a single Direct Consolidation Loan. Here's the catch: unlike student loan refinancing, federal student loan consolidation does not lower your interest rate or monthly payment. Think of this student consolidation this way: it's a tool to organize your federal loans into a single student loan with a single monthly payment and single student loan servicer. What is your interest rate when you consolidate federal student loans? With a Direct Consolidation Loan, your interest rate is equal to a weighted average of your existing federal student loans, rounded up to the nearest 1/8%. So, your interest rate does not decrease, but may slightly increase.

        3. Income-Driven Repayment Plan
      
Income-driven repayment plans such as PAYE, REPAYE and IBR are available for federal student loans (not private student loans) and are offered by the federal government. Your monthly payment is based on a percentage of your discretionary income, and the percentage may vary based on the income-driven repayment plan you choose. Currently, for example, the monthly payment for REPAYE is 10% of discretionary income, and you can receive student loan forgiveness after 20 years (undergraduate federal student loans) or 25 years (graduate federal student loans).

        4. Public Service Loan Forgiveness
      
The Public Service Loan Forgiveness program forgives federal student loans for borrowers who are employed full-time (more than 30 hours per week) in an eligible federal, state or local public service job or 501(c)(3) nonprofit job who make 120 eligible on-time payments over ten years.
Under Trump's proposed budget, the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program would be eliminated. Trump's proposal would impact borrowers who borrow a new student loan starting July 1, 2020, excluding borrowers who are completing their current course study.

        Summary
      
Here is a recap:
