
# Granit Xhaka should tell agent to arrange Arsenal exit says Mark Noble

Published at: **2019-11-02T02:47:21+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/granit-xhaka-should-tell-agent-20792885)

West Ham captain Mark Noble says he has sympathy for Granit Xhaka and has suggested it might be best for the Arsenal skipper to leave the club.
Xhaka has come under fire after he clashed with his own fans during the 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace last weekend while he was being substituted.
The Swiss midfielder was jeered as he left the pitch and gestured towards supporters before appearing to mouth 'f*** off'.
After being left out of the Gunners' squad for the Carabao Cup defeat against Liverpool , the 27-year-old released to message to Arsenal fans on Thursday explaining his conduct.
He had been expected to return to action in the Premier League this weekend but will also miss the game with Wolves .
Although Xhaka's actions have drawn widespread criticism and sparked calls for him to be stripped of the captaincy, fellow skipper Noble admitted he can relate to what he is going through.
In his column for the Evening Standard , Noble wrote: "Granit has taken a lot of flak for his reaction after being substituted last weekend but — as a fellow captain of a London Premier League club — I did have some sympathy for him.
"I know what it’s like when things are not going as well as you would like because, if you’re a manager or a captain, fans tend to aim more criticism at you.
"It’s a tough one and a fine line because you’re trying your best, but if you’re booed by your fans it is inevitable that your confidence will take a hit. I've had it myself, but the bottom line is that everything changes with results.
"Obviously, Granit has made mistakes and sometimes his discipline may not be the best, but the way I’ve always seen it is that the fans pay their hard-earned money, they go to the games and they have a right to express their opinion."
With questions over his future at Arsenal being raised on the back of the episode, Noble also indicated that the situation may never improve and that the best thing for Xhaka could be to continue his career away from the Emirates Stadium.
He continued: "Granit is one of those players who wears his heart on his sleeve and it’s tough for him at the moment.
"In all honesty, the best solution might be to tell his agent, 'Look, they don’t like me here, so maybe it’s best if I go and play somewhere else'.
"There would be a lot of takers for him because he is a quality player and it does seem, from the outside, that his fellow players love him, both as a professional and a ­person.
"If I was him I would say, “I’ve had a great time here, but it’s not worked out recently and it’s time for a new challenge”.
"I remember Slaven Bilic telling me, “Once the box is open, it never closes”. The chances are that, if he makes one bad pass in the next match in which he plays, they’ll be on him again."
