
# UFC 244 Diaz vs Masvidal UK TV channel, full card, start time and live stream

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/ufc-244-diaz-vs-masvidal-20788529)

Nate Diaz returns to the Octagon for the second time in three months tonight when he takes on Jorge Masvidal at UFC 244.
The Stockton native was out of action for three years following his defeat by Conor McGregor , but returned in August to beat Anthony Pettis.
He then called out Masvidal - who has recorded stunning back-to-back victories over Darren Till and Ben Askren - and the fight was quickly made.
The pair will clash tonight at Madison Square Garden in New York and on the line will be the one-off Baddest Motherf***** belt which has been specially designed and produced.
On hand to present the belt will be none other than Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson while the main event will be preceded by Till's middleweight debut against Kelvin Gastelum.
Here is everything you need to know about tonight's fights...
The first fights on the early prelim card will start at 10.30pm GMT. The prelims will then begin at midnight with the main card starting at 2am.
Diaz and Masvidal will be expected in the cage at 4am GMT.
The fights will be shown on BT Sport 1 in the UK with coverage starting at midnight.
The fights can be streamed by BT customers on BT Sport 1 using the website or app.
If you are not a BT customer but are an EE customer, you can sign up for a free trial and watch the fights at no cost. Click here to sign up

        Main card
      
Jorge Masvidal vs Nate Diaz
Kelvin Gastelum vs Darren Till
Stephen Thompson vs Vicente Luque
Derrick Lewis vs Blagoy Ivanov
Kevin Lee vs Gregor Gillespie

        Preliminary card
      
Corey Anderson vs Johnny Walker
Shane Burgos vs Makwan Amirkhani
Brad Tavares vs Edmen Shahbazyan
Andrei Arlovski vs Jairzinho Rozenstruik

        Early Preliminary card
      
Jennifer Maia vs Katlyn Chookagian
Lyman Good vs Chance Rencountre
Julio Arce vs Hakeem Dawodu
Diaz 6/5
Masvidal 4/6
Nate Diaz remains open to a trilogy fight with Conor McGregor - but is not desperate to face the Irishman again.
Diaz choked out McGregor in 2016 before losing their rematch six months later by decision.
He then sat out for three years before returning in August to beat Anthony Pettis to set up Saturday’s  clash with Jorge Masvidal at UFC 244.
McGregor meanwhile went on to beat Eddie Alvarez to win the lightweight title but then suffered defeats by Floyd Mayweather and Khabib Nurmagomedov.
The Dubliner is pencilled in to return to the UFC on January 18 against Donald Cerrone and wants to then face the winner of Diaz vs Masvidal.
But of a trilogy fight, Diaz said: “Maybe, maybe not, I don’t know what’s next.
“I’m going to do what I’m going to do. We’ll see what’s going to happen in the future. Like I said before, when the stars line up. I don’t know what’s next. I’m going to try to make this fight happen the way it’s supposed to happen, and we’ll go from there.
“Whatever is going to happen in the future is going to happen in the future."
