
# Hannah Brown Is “Proud” of Demi Burnett’s Honesty Following Her Kristian Haggerty Breakup

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:52:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/entertainment/celebs/a29699090/hannah-brown-proud-demi-burnett-kristian-haggerty-break-up/)

In the wake of Demi Burnett and Kristian Haggerty’s breakup, Hannah Brown—who happens to be BFFs with Demi—is publicly letting it be known that she will absolutely be supporting her bestie during this emotional time. Honestly, Hannah sounds like such a great friend.
After her performance on Dancing With the Stars last night, People caught up with Hannah to see how she feels about Demi’s breakup with Kristian. Hannah, like the truest of blues, explained that she’s always going to have Demi’s back in times both good and bad.
Related Stories

        Oh No: Demi Burnett and Kristian Haggerty Broke Up
      

        Demi Burnett’s Instagram Comments Are a Mess Rn
      
“We’ve both been through a lot—I think it’s just knowing that we’re going to be there. Whether we agree or disagree, we are always going to have each other’s back through anything,” Hannah said. Hannah also added that she is “so proud” of Demi for “being honest and making choices that are right for her at this time. I can’t wait to see what’s next for her.”
Demi announced the breakup on her Instagram last week and wrote that she and Kristian “want what is best for us in the long run and for us right now, that means being apart and growing individually.” According to an E! News source, distance was allegedly the reason why Demi and Kristian broke up in the first place.
“They were supposed to permanently move in together in L.A., and that never happened,” the source said. “They really haven’t spent much time together in the same place since getting back from Paradise, and it made them rethink the whole situation. They grew apart, and once they came down from the post-vacation high, they realized they were rushing their relationship.”
Since Demi and Kristian broke up, Demi has been trying to live her best life. She attended last night’s episode of Dancing With the Stars to support Hannah (like she has been every single week) and posted a cheeky pic of her Halloween costume. Kristian, on the other hand, has remained pretty silent.
Related Stories

        Demi Burnett’s Instagram Comments Are a Mess Rn
      

        ‘BiP’ Reveals Demi Is Bisexual, Twitter Explodes
      
Starr Bowenbank Editorial Assistant Starr Bowenbank is the editorial assistant who writes about all things pertaining to news, pop culture, and entertainment—you can follow her here.
