
# Diablo 4 Looks Up to Cult Classic Diablo 2 for Inspiration, a Leak Reveals

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:06:29+00:00**

Author: **Wanguba Muriuki**

Original: [Coinspeaker](https://www.coinspeaker.com/diablo-4-leak-reveals/)

A reliable source published a Reddit post on October 30 stating that Diablo 4 will channel the same elements that developed Diablo 2 into a cult classic. The source has a known and undisputed track record. Thus, it is credited with a level of legitimacy that is mostly absent in other wild rumors.
Previously, they correctly predicted Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield and Ghost Recon Breakpoint details way before official announcements. Daniel Ahmad, a respected industry analyst, posted on Twitter that the details correlate with a lot of what he is currently aware of Diablo 4. That seems to be a decent seal of approval from other sources.
The leak goes further to say that Diablo 4 will adopt a gloomier tone compared to the previous entry. A huge emphasis is placed on ‘toned down’ locations that appear bigger with an open-world component. They include ‘plagued’ cities, caves, wastelands, deserts, crypts, and wetlands.
As for the finer details, the leak published that characters will ride horses and other mounts. Moreover, there are contextual interactions with the surroundings like climbing a wall Lost Ark style. In this latest edition, the blood splatters resemble real blood and not splashed jam.
Through that leak, everyone is convinced that the Diablo 4 gameplay is more dynamic than Diablo 3. It will feature smoother animations and combat that seems weighty and impactful. Three known classes in Diablo 4 exist. They include a melee barbarian class, an elemental magic-wielding mage class, and a druid class with the ability to shape-shifting into various beasts.
Four-player co-op returns to Diablo 4. Also, the leak implies player vs. player combat may feature at launch.
According to the same leak, many Diablo 2-like aspects exist in Diablo 4. That news will surely excite the franchise fans. The source explained:
A salt dose is a prerequisite as always. Nonetheless, as we have reported earlier, Blizzard will officially launch Diablo 4 during BlizzCon, fans will not have to wait for long to get confirmation.
The event started on October 31 with an announcement scheduled for November 1 at the earliest unless stated otherwise. Many fans are hopeful that this year’s event will not turn out to be as strange as 2018’s Diablo Immortal announcement.
It’s also worth mentioning that the stock of Blizzard is now demonstrating a positive tendency and continuously growing (though without huge jumps). At the moment Activision Blizzard (ATVI) stock is trading at around $56.
