
# Dinos last-play heroics lift them into final

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:14:14+00:00**

Author: **Rita Mingo, For the Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/sports/football/dinos-last-play-heroics-lift-them-into-final)

It will go down in the annals of Calgary Dinos’ football as one of the most — if not THE most — entertaining and affecting game ever.
“It had me in tears at the end of the game, I’m not going to lie,” admitted Dinos’ quarterback Adam Sinagra. “Just so emotionally draining and just so proud of our guys.”
The last minutes of this Hardy Cup semifinal will tell you all you need to know. Sinagra runs nine yards into the endzone to give Calgary a 47-40 lead with 1:08 left. Manitoba QB Des Catellier chucks up a Hail Mary which bounces into the hands of his receiver Trysten Dyce with 0:00 on the clock. The Bisons decide to go for two, end it right there, and Dinos’ defensive back Nick Statz picks it off.
So 47-46 Dinos … and the Hardy Cup championship game beckons, for the 12th consecutive year. Calgary hosts Saskatchewan in the Canada West title tilt at 1 p.m. on Saturday as the Huskies defeated the Alberta Golden Bears 28-23.
“I think it has to be, pretty darn close,” noted Dinos’ head coach Wayne Harris Jr., asked if it was the wildest game he’d been a part of. “It was so back and forth with so many points being scored. They kept battling and made some big plays; it just happens we made the big play at the end.”
Statz, the man of the hour with the big pick, was still reeling after the game.
“I think everyone was stunned when they got that deep ball,” he explained. “We did everything we were coached to do. I actually got my hand on the ball and I was stunned … ah, man, I tipped it into the guy’s hand.
“When they came out with their offence, we were, like, OK, this is do or die. The guy was open, he just dropped it and it got tipped into my hand. That’s just sports. You never think you’re going to be the guy who gets the pick.”
As for long-time Bisons head coach Brian Dobie, going for the two instead of the safe one and overtime was a no-brainer.
“Any coach that wouldn’t do that actually wouldn’t understand,” said Dobie. “That was overtime. The advantage was totally Manitoba. Everybody thinks that overtime is some magic new game; it’s not.
“I’ve coached for a quarter of a century at Manitoba and that was one of the greatest games I’ve ever coached in. It just was. There are like 17 people in the stands. The rest of the university missed one of the best games played on this field.”
The first quarter was uneventful due to stingy defences. The Dinos were also hampered by their own miscues and a number of penalties, aiding the Bisons cause and hurting their own.
Offences picked up over the next 15 minutes. Sinagra threw a pin-point pass to Jalen Philpot in the corner of the endzone to give Calgary a two-point lead midway through. But that was short-lived.
On the very next possession, following a reverse on the kick-off which put Manitoba on its own 50, Catellier found Dyce for 56 yards and that led to a five-yard rumble for the major by Victor St. Pierre-Laviolette.
Calgary regained the lead late in the second. Sinagra and Tyson Philpot hooked up for a 47-yard pass play and that was followed by a 12-yard TD toss to Hunter Karl.
Dallas Boath scored the first of his two touchdowns at 9:23 of the third quarter, scooting into the endzone after catching a short Sinagra pass.
Special teams had their moments for both teams and they came to the fore late in the third. One of those was a 50-yard return by Jalen Philpot which gave Calgary tantalizing field position once again. That resulted in another Boath TD on the afternoon and appeared to put Calgary in a comfortable position.
But the Bisons’ own special teams’ heroics put the visitors back into the thick of it, Shae Weekes returning a punt 96 yards for the touchdown and it was 33-26 Calgary.
Seventeen seconds later, the speedy Jalen Philpot emulated that effort plus-1, taking the kick-off into the endzone. It was, interestingly, the first time Philpot had returned kicks all year.
“I was happy to do it and I envisioned taking one to the house all week, so I was happy to be able to do it,” said the second-year receiver. “Emotions were high on the sidelines. I had faith in my defence. We never lost hope.”
Dobie admitted the Philpot return was a turning point for Calgary.
“Congratulations to the Dinos,” he added. “Here they are in another Hardy Cup, dammit. I say that with the greatest of envy. This was a huge emotional win for them and what a great way for that football team to move on to the Hardy Cup.”
