
# Police in south Belfast help 'Holylands Batman' to safety

Published at: **2019-11-01T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/01/news/police-in-south-belfast-help-holylands-batman-to-safety-1753630/)

A MAN dressed in a Batman costume was rescued by police in south Belfast's Holylands area after he became caught dangling upside down from a railing.
An image of the unusual late-night rescue effort ahead of Halloween was widely shared online, prompting many superhero-themed jokes from social media users.
The photo showed a police officer looking up at the caped crusader, whose foot appeared to be stuck on a railing in the back yard of a property.
A woman who posted the image on Twitter said that "only in the Holylands" would you find Batman "hanging from your fence by his shoelace".
The PSNI confirmed Tactical Support Group (TSG) officers responded to a report about a man at Palestine Street in the mainly student area on Tuesday night.
The Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service (NIFRS) and Northern Ireland Ambulance Service (NIAS) were also called to the scene.
"As TSG officers were on patrol in the area, at approximately 11pm, they were alerted by members of the public about a man, dressed in costume, who was dangling from a railing some distance off the ground," a spokesman said.
"Along with colleagues from the NIFRS and the NIAS the man, aged in his twenties, was subsequently removed safely and checked by paramedics at the scene.
"No injuries were reported at the time."
The image of the mishap prompted much reaction online.
One Twitter user wrote: "Bats sleep upside down, leave the lad alone to get some kip."
Another said: "Would love to know what the police officer thinking."
And one Twitter user joked: "Poor guy just wanted home for his dinner dinner dinner dinner," in reference to the theme tune of the 1960s Batman TV series starring Adam West.
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
