
# May at 10 by Anthony Seldon review – politics and pressure

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:30:47+00:00**

Author: **David Runciman**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2019/nov/07/may-at-10-anthony-seldon-review)


        Could Theresa May have delivered a deal? And was she right to call an election? A study of the what ifs of Brexit
      
Whatever happens in next month’s general election, it is hard to see how Theresa May can win. If Boris Johnson gets a parliamentary majority and is able to force his version of Brexit through, he will be the one who did what she couldn’t, who got the backing of the voters where she failed, who reopened a deal she said was closed, and who seized his moment when she didn’t dare. It will be his victory. On the other hand, if Johnson comes a cropper at the polls and Brexit ends up stymied again, May will go down in the annals of her party as the PM who squandered their best chance to save Brexit and to save themselves. He will be the fall guy. But she will get the ultimate blame.
Anthony Seldon’s exhaustive inside account of May’s tenure in Downing Street offers little ammunition for anyone hoping to mount a defence of her premiership. Based on extensive interviews with all the key players (except the PM herself), his book portrays May as a brittle and shallow politician, incurious, inflexible and ultimately out of her depth. She has her moments – he commends her handling of the Salisbury poisonings, for example – but on the whole she comes across as fixed in her views when she needed to be open, yet indecisive when she needed to act: a fatal combination.
Some of Seldon’s judgments are withering. He says May should have appreciated the enormous challenges that the referendum result posed for the whole of the UK and the deep difficulty of the choices she faced. “Any knowledge of history would have told her these were not ordinary decisions. But she knew no history.” Seldon calls it “one of the worst failures of imagination and opportunity” by any PM since 1945.
She didn’t understand the present either. One of the mysteries of the first phase of the Brexit negotiations was how long it took the UK government to appreciate the intractable problem posed by the Irish border. On Seldon’s account, this was partly down to sheer ignorance on May’s part. “She showed no understanding, because she simply didn’t understand, that it was the EU’s customs union and the single market which made possible the dismantling of the hard border.” You would think someone might have told her. The problem was that she didn’t know how to listen to what she didn’t want to hear.
Yet this book is not quite as devastating as it appears, because Seldon’s approach is flawed. By relying so heavily on personal testimony from the people involved, he is essentially trading in post-hoc rationalisations. May at 10 is not so different from Tim Shipman’s All Out War and Fall Out, which cover much of the same ground in even more breathless detail (Seldon occasionally relies on Shipman’s account to fill in gaps in his own). But while Shipman – a journalist – never pretends to be offering anything more than a gossipy tale of back-stabbing and score-settling, Seldon – a historian – wants to be doing something more. So he interposes his own magisterial verdicts on the events he describes. The problem is that it’s not clear where these verdicts come from.
For instance, he says that May was right to call an election in 2017 and only has herself to blame for the crushing outcome. He lists six things that went wrong (from the botched manifesto to her timid and robotic behaviour on the campaign trail), and he places ultimate responsibility for each at her door. What’s missing, though, is any sense of the wider political context. Yes, May was a terrible campaigner. But how does Seldon know that the campaign was the root cause of her failure?
The truth is that the Tories did not underperform in 2017 – May got roughly the vote share that was predicted by the polls when she called the election and more than any Conservative leader since John Major. What caused all her difficulties was that the opposition vote unexpectedly coalesced around Labour – it was the falling away of Lib Dem, Green and Ukip support that did for her. Could she have prevented that? Maybe she could have been more alive to the risks, but much of what happened – including Labour’s highly effective under-the-radar social media campaign – was out of her hands. Some of her stress during the election came from her sense of her own powerlessness. But Seldon wants to make it all about her.
This highly personalised approach means most of the book’s verdicts relate to individuals and their characters, for better and for worse. Some come out very well. Seldon seems particularly enamoured of Philip May, the PM’s husband, whom he describes as a consort of “consummate skill” and one of the key figures of her entire administration. But he provides very little evidence for what Philip May actually contributed, beyond being loyal and supportive throughout all his wife’s travails. It is hard to avoid the conclusion that there is some soft sexism at work here – what made it remarkable was that a husband was performing a role we normally associate with prime ministers’ wives.
The person who emerges best is Jeremy Heywood, the head of the civil service, whose untimely death in late 2018 robbed the government of its wisest counsellor and safest pair of hands. This judgment is hard to argue with. He was not just consistently helpful, he was also solicitous, notwithstanding some bruising battles with May and her entourage. When the PR disaster of her tin-eared response to the Grenfell fire left her deeply exposed, Heywood texted a fellow official in No 10 to say: “We failed her. We deserve the blame for this, not her.” That others should have been so forgiving.
Heywood stabilised May’s administration after the disastrous election result forced her to ditch long-standing special advisers Nick Timothy and Fiona Hill. With Heywood’s loss, things began to unravel again and her Brexit strategy lost its way. But May was far from being alone in the misjudgments she made. It’s clear that almost everyone on the UK side miscalculated the likelihood that the EU would buckle under pressure. Equally, the EU’s leading players fundamentally misunderstood how British politics works. Martin Selmayr, chief of staff to Jean-Claude Juncker and an EU powerbroker in his own right, was astonished to discover that Corbyn did not have May’s mobile number. “I would have expected that the leader of Her Majesty’s opposition and the Prime Minister might speak at least two or three times a week on the phone personally and have a standing communication line to solve this matter.” Really? The British thought the Europeans would behave like them and ditch their guiding principles when the going got tough. The Europeans thought the British would behave like them and stitch up a compromise when they needed one. May might have been tin-eared, but it was a dialogue of the deaf all round.
Seldon is interested in the what-ifs of Brexit and he identifies some key moments when it could all have been different, if only one or two people had changed their tune. He says that just before the third and final meaningful vote on May’s deal, Steve Baker of the ERG finally decided to side with the government, potentially bringing enough Brexit diehards with him to get the deal over the line. He went to the office of the DUP’s Nigel Dodds to tell him of his decision, but because Dodds wasn’t there Baker had time to reconsider, and he ended up changing his mind again a few hours later. Seldon remarks: “On such flutters of a butterfly’s wings do great events hinge.” Yet what persuaded Baker to back down was bumping into a couple of his fellow Brexit hardliners who told him he was crazy to back May. So perhaps this butterfly didn’t have quite the influence Seldon thinks.
In the end, there probably is no defence of May’s premiership: she was dogged, she was determined, but Seldon is right that she lacked the skills and the knowledge to navigate the Brexit minefield. However, by making it so much about the individuals concerned – their feuds, their foibles, their resentments and regrets – he does her time in office a disservice. The wider story included many factors beyond any of their power to control. This highly personalised picture of the May years purports to account for the dysfunctional and factional state of current British politics. But it is also a symptom of what it seeks to explain.
• Where Power Stops by David Runciman is published by Profile. May at 10 by Anthony Seldon, with Raymond Newell, is published by Biteback (£20). To order a copy go to guardianbookshop.com or call 020-3176 3837. Free UK p&p over £15, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
