
# 2020 Aston Martin DBX pricing revealed

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:09:44+00:00**

Author: **Scott Collie**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805760/2020-aston-martin-dbx-pricing/)

- shares
Aston Martin has revealed its first ever SUV, the DBX, will cost $357,000 before on-road costs when it arrives in Australia – likely to be sometime next year.
Although value isn't the chief concern at this end of the market, the DBX will slot between the Bentley Bentayga ($334,700 before on-road costs) and Lamborghini Urus ($390,000 before on-roads) when it launches.

        REVIEW: The DBX hasn't been revealed, but we've been for a ride
      
Despite the fact Aston Martin hasn't properly revealed the DBX – that'll have to wait until November 20 – we have a good idea of how the interior will look.
The dashboard is home to a large touchscreen infotainment system of as-yet unrevealed size, below which sit a pair of air vents. The transmission tunnel plays host to a Mercedes-Benz derived infotainment controller. Expect to see lashings of leather, and a multitude of options.
Aston Martin says the floating centre console has room for a handbag or large 1.5-litre water bottles beneath it, while the design has been optimised for everyone from "the 99th percentile male to the 5th percentile female" – in other words, bodies of all shapes and sizes.
Power in the DBX will come from a 405kW 4.0-litre bi-turbo V8 built by Mercedes-AMG, good for a 4.5-second sprint to 100km/h and a 291km/h top speed.
Prototypes have lapped the Nurburgring Nordschleife in less than eight minutes, putting the SUV record (7:48) within sight. Aston has also focused on giving the car a dash of off-road ability, although it's not likely to give the G-Class any sleepless nights.
The Aston Martin DBX will be revealed on November 20. Stay tuned for more in the lead-up.

        For more on the DBX, check out our ride-along.
      
13
nextprevious2020 Aston Martin DBX pricing revealed
