
# Public hearings in Trump impeachment inquiry to begin next week

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:19:56+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Aljazeera](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2019/11/public-hearings-trump-impeachment-inquiry-week-191106182751509.html?utm_campaign=trueAnthem%3A+Trending+Content&utm_medium=trueAnthem&utm_source=twitter)

US House Democrats leading an impeachment inquiry of President Donald Trump's dealings with Ukraine will begin public hearings next week, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff said on Wednesday. 
The hearings will mark a new, and potentially significant, phase of the impeachment inquiry, which Democrats launched in September. While a House panel has been hearing testimonies in closed-door sessions from several officials in recent weeks, this will be the first time the entirety of the questioning will be public.
Adam Schiff, who is leading the impeachment investigation, said the committee will hear from top Ukraine diplomat William Taylor and career department official George Kent next Wednesday and from former US Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch next Friday. All three state department officials had previously appeared in the closed-door sessions.
Schiff said the closed-door testimonies have offered an "increasing appreciation for just what took place during the course of the last year and the degree to which the president enlisted whole departments of government in the elicit aim of trying to get Ukraine to dig up dirt on a political opponent".
He added the "open hearings will be an opportunity for the American people to evaluate the witnesses for themselves, to make their own determinations about the credibility of the witnesses, but also to learn first-hand about the facts of the president's misconduct".
The scheduled public hearings come after the House last week approved an eight-page resolution that lays out the ground rules for the inquiry going forward.
During the public hearings, consulting lawyers for the committees will conduct witness questioning for extended periods of time, as opposed to the traditional format of congressional hearings, in which legislators ask questions in alternating five-minute blocks.
The House impeachment investigation is focused on a July 25 phone call in which Trump asked Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to investigate former Vice President Joe Biden, a leading Democratic rival, and his son Hunter, who was on the board of a Ukrainian gas company that had been investigated for corruption. There has been no evidence of wrongdoing by the Bidens. 
