
# Liverpool Move Top In Group F

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/uefa-champions-league/uefa-champions-league-report-liverpool-v-genk-05-november-2019/666828)


        UEFA Champions League
      
Result: Liverpool 2-1 Genk
Date: 05 November 2019
Venue: Anfield Stadium
Liverpool moved to the top of Group E following a 2-1 victory over Genk in the UEFA Champions League at the Anfield Stadium on Tuesday.
The defending champions give a run to Naby Keita, James Milner as well as last season’s semi-final and final hero Divock Origi.
Virgil van Dijk came close to breaking the deadlock inside the first nine minutes when he headed a corner from Trent Alexander-Arnold, which went off target.
Liverpool didn’t wait long to get the noses in front after Georginio Wijnaldum flicked home a loose ball in the area following poor defending from Genk who failed to clear Origi’s cross.
Chances followed for the Reds when Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain slipped a ball to Keita, who failed to beat Gaetan Coucke with successive attempts from close range after 24 minutes.
Genk levelled the playing field five minutes to halftime when Mbwanna Samatta rose to nod home a dangerous delivery to the area from Bryan Heynen.
Jurgen Klopp and his opposite number Felice Mazzu came out for the second half unchanged from the first spell.
Liverpool regained the front foot through Oxlade-Chamberlain who finished off a layoff from Mohamed Salah on 53 minutes on the edge of the area.
Salah scuffed a big opportunity for a third six minutes later from the cusp of the penalty area after getting the better of Sebastien Dewaest, but the Egyptian dragged the attempt wide.
Klopp switched his structure in the last 15 minutes, as Sadio Mane pulled off the training coat to replace Oxlade-Chamberlain.
Genk pushed for the equaliser in the final few minutes of the match, but the sixth time European champions ran out victors in the end.
