
# South Lanarkshire Council prepare for bonfire night with special 'hit squad'

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Bark, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/stephen-bark/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/south-lanarkshire-council-prepare-bonfire-20787290)

South Lanarkshire Council have a ‘hit squad’ ready to dismantle unplanned bonfires ahead of November 5.
The grounds staff dispose of 100 tonnes of extra rubbish at this time of year.
Grounds assistant Adam Ballantyne said: “The main thing is keeping everybody safe.”
Both he and grounds officer Iain Currie help organise the council’s ‘bonfire hit squads’ who remove anything that could be used on a bonfire. Anything from minor burns to sight loss and worse can come from reckless actions on November 5, so anything they can do to mitigate the risk is a win for them.
“Bonfire night for us is always a busy night,” Iain added. “Historically, it has been one of these things that has been very popular.
“A number of years ago we took a decision because we didn’t want to see anybody getting injured.
“We remove fly-tip materials and combustible materials that we find on council-owned land throughout South Lanarkshire. We can lift anything. Wood, metal, gas cylinders - you wouldn’t think folk would put gas cylinders on fires but it has been known.”
The hit squads also check known hotspots and remove materials from other spots if they come across any.
The message to the public is to consider whether or not you need to start a bonfire yourself.
Adam said: “We would much rather folk went to an organised event where they could enjoy the spectacle as opposed to putting themselves or others at risk. The closest one for us is Strathclyde Park, but there are other events in other areas as well. They make a whole event out of it so it’s not just standing in the cold.
“We’re not trying to spoil fun, we’re just trying to ensure that everybody is safe and they can enjoy the night.”
