
# Madeleine McCann's parents thank public after £300k funding boost in global hunt

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:26:14+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/madeleine-mccanns-parents-thank-public-20792815)

Madeleine McCann's parent have thanked the public for 'being by our side' after being granted a £300,000 fund to continue their search.
Kate and Gerry McCann shared the message on their Facebook page writing: "Thank you for being by our side as we continue to search for Madeleine."
The couple vowed to continue the worldwide hunt 'for as long as it takes'.
The police probe, known as Operation Grange, has cost £12 million to date and received another £300,000 in July - 12 years after Madeleine disappeared.
   
She vanished from an apartment in the Portuguese holiday resort of Praia da Luz on May 3, 2007.
She was on holiday with her family at the time of her disappearance.
Kate and Gerry left her sleeping with her other siblings while they had dinner at a nearby restaurant.
Det Chief Inspector mark Cranwell has been put in charge of the investigation part-time, running a four-cop team to crack the case, according to The Sun.
In August, a forensic expert said he believes complex samples could hold the key to finding out what happened to Madeleine.
Dr Perlin also said his Pittsburgh-based Cybernetics team - which identified victims of the 9/11 terror attack - is capable of cracking the case.
The UK's Forensic Science Service has 18 samples from the investigation, which Dr Perlin wants released.
Dr Perlin claims the evidence was “too complex” for the team and did not result in “meaningful inclusion/interpretation”.
He told Daily Star Online: “Most of the apartment's samples were taken from the wall, floor, and skirting board. One item was from the curtains.
“The mixture evidence could contain DNA from an unknown person who was not a member of the immediate McCann family.  
“However, we wouldn't know whether or not that stranger was actually an ‘intruder’."
