
# 'Breathtaking' homes capture imagination of upscaling family

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:30:45+00:00**

Author: **Cindy Stephen, for the Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/life/homes/new-homes/breathtaking-homes-capture-imagination-of-upscaling-family)

Children come along, possessions accumulate and eventually, life in a starter home must come to an end.
Maan Saleh and Saba Obaidi were bursting at the seams in their Silverado home where they’d lived for 12 years. As long as there were no major disruptions to their children’s lives, they were ready to move up.
“We looked at homes built already and new builds. We were looking for a few hundred more square feet and a house with a garage,” says Saleh, who works in Calgary’s oil patch, as does Obaidi.
They were out for a walk with their kids one day last year, heading south into Yorkville, a new neighbourhood by builder and developer, Mattamy Homes. The show homes there weren’t officially open at the time and the family was one of the first to have a tour.
“They’re really breathtaking. The way they’re designed was something we were quite impressed with,” Saleh says. “The high ceilings, the high doors. The Mattamy show homes helped us make the decision. That was the tipping point.”
Mattamy’s Jade show home, a two-storey front-drive garage model, was the home they chose. With 2,536 square feet, the Jade has a main floor den, a generous mudroom off the garage and a dedicated pantry off the kitchen. Mattamy’s Yorkville show home is a four-bedroom model, but Saleh and Obaidi went with the three-bedroom, walk-in closet option with an upstairs bonus room.
“There are two walk-in closets in the master bedroom and the oasis bathroom is amazing,” he adds.
As striking as the show home was, the couple changed and upgraded a few things, choosing a different colour palette and swapping the Prairie elevation for Georgian. That change increased their living space to 2,680 square feet.
“They usually give you two visits to make choices — it took us almost four. They were so patient with us. We put a lot of upgrades into this house. It’s a home for us and the kids and we have loved it since the day we moved in,” Saleh says.
They chose a lot backing onto the pond, which Obaidi says offsets the narrow zero lot that they’re large home is built on.
“The living room faces the pond at the rear of the house. We can watch the ducks and the fountains in the pond, which actually are shut down now for the winter,” she says.
The great room is her favourite part of the home, while the sheer amount of space they now have is Saleh’s.
“I enjoy sitting downstairs while the kids are having a good time upstairs. We don’t bug each other — we have more freedom,” he says, smiling.
The base price of Mattamy’s Jade floor plan is $574,990 according to area sales manager, Mike Luciuk. Switching from the standard Prairie elevation to Georgian — a signature look in the Yorkville community — adds another $10,000 to $15,000 onto the purchase price.
“Many people see the value of upgrading to this beautiful Georgian Colonial style,” he says.
Luciuk says that like Saleh and Obaidi, buyers in Yorkville are moving up from nearby Evergreen, Bridlewood, Somerset and Silverado. Families can get that larger home and enjoy their familiar shopping areas or recreation facilities and keep the kids in the same schools, sports associations and friend groups.
Mattamy’s current lot availability includes wider homesites, corner lots, pie-shaped lots and traditional lots with four-foot side yards on both sides of the property.
“We also have front-garage homes backing onto alleys, which these days is super unique. We recently opened three new single-family show homes featuring our ‘widelot’ concept on 36-foot and 44-foot homesites, with very positive feedback so far,” he explains.
Zero lots, designed to save land and reduce costs, typically have one side yard, but Luciuk says that even Mattamy’s smallest lots have two side yards.
Spring 2020 will see the opening of Yorkville’s first park with a play structure, half basketball court, new landscaping and public art.
COMMUNITY: YorkvilleBUILDER/DEVELOPER: Mattamy HomesMODEL: The Jade GeorgianSIZE: 2,680 square feet front-drive garage, three-bedroom (with an option for four), 2.5-bathrooms, upstairs bonus room, main floor den, high ceiling, rear-facing great roomPRICE: From $574,990 (for Jade Prairie)INFORMATION: The sales centre is at 19515 Sheriff King St. S.W. or mattamyhomes.com
