
# Drayton Manor Splash Canyon emergency stop button 'not pressed after Evha Jannath fall'

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:26:16+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/drayton-manor-splash-canyon-emergency-17205626)

An emergency stop button for a river rapids ride was not pressed after staff were told an 11-year-old girl had fallen into the water, an inquest has heard.
Evha Jannath was "propelled" from a six-seater vessel on Drayton Manor's Splash Canyon ride on May 9 2017, while on an end-of-year school trip with staff and friends from Jameah Girls Academy in Leicester.
An inquest at Stafford County Buildings has been told that Evha and other pupils on the circular boat had been repeatedly standing up, and "reaching into the water", against the rules, before it hit a barrier, sending her head-first into the water.
Evha and four friends boarded the vessel without a teacher after school staff agreed to the pupils' request to go on the ride unaccompanied.
The ride operator that day, Samuel Read, was sitting in the control cabin with a trainee observing.
Mr Read, who had worked at the park for 10 years, said he had been trained on the attraction, including use of the emergency stop button on the control panel.
Giving evidence on Tuesday, he said: "In case of emergency, if we witness a person falling in the water, our first port of call would be to push the emergency stop button.
"If we did not witness it, but received reports, we would search the ride CCTV to see if we could see them and then contact the control room, the main hub for control of the park."
Asked how long it might take to search the nine CCTV cameras, he said "a minute or two".
However, he later agreed that half the ride was not covered by CCTV.
Charles Curtis, barrister for Evha's family, asked about the written safety operations for the ride, which said: "If a guest should fall from a boat in any location except the station, press the emergency stop.
"From what you told the jury, I understand that in your view that is only if you have seen the person fall in the water.
"And if you haven't seen it (the fall), you try and find them on the CCTV and contact the control room?
"That is not what is written down here. It doesn't specify, 'only if you see someone fall in', but that is your understanding?"
 
Mr Read, who had operated the ride for five seasons, said he had "picked up" his "understanding" of when to use the emergency stop button during training.
In the event, he did not turn off the water pumps that drive the boats until another staff member told him to, 10 minutes after Evha's fall was first reported to him.
Earlier, Mr Read told assistant coroner Margaret Jones he had no formal training on water rescue, and no specialised marine rescue equipment had been available that day.
Three weeks before the incident, ride operators had met to discuss safety measures.
 
Among issues identified were increasing the number of CCTV display monitors, moving the emergency stop button, and the legibility of safety signs on the boats telling customers to stay in their seats.
The coroner asked: "Can you recall any problems with the CCTV?"
Mr Read replied that the existing system of nine cameras being monitored on a single screen in the cabin made it "quite difficult to see", so operators had asked for extra monitors.
The coroner said: "It seems that the issue wasn't taken forward, sadly, by the time of this incident involving Evha."
Earlier, Theresa Atkinson, who had been at the park in Tamworth, Staffordshire, described seeing Evha in the water.
Mrs Atkinson said: "She looked like she was panicking and I shouted to her to stay where she was. I didn't want her to let go, I didn't know if she could swim or whether she was hurt, I didn't know anything.
"I tried to climb over the fencing to get to her, then (I was) panicking that I couldn't get my foot over the fencing."
It took her "three to four minutes" to run to alert park staff at the ride's photo booth, where there was a female member of staff, Hayley Dyson.
Ms Dyson said she rang Mr Read after Mrs Atkinson told her to "stop the ride, because there's someone in the water".
She said the operator replied they were "checking the CCTV to see what's going on" and a few minutes later she saw other staff heading to the ride.
On Monday, the inquest heard that Evha attempted to climb the ride's "travelator" which lifts the vessels up out of the water, to an exit platform, but fell into a 12ft deep area of water.
Eleven minutes after staff were alerted to Evha originally going into the water, she was spotted face down.
It was another six minutes before theme park staff were able to pull her out, when she was described as "lifeless", and was later pronounced dead in hospital.
The inquest continues.
