
# Another Round Of Sears Closings Will Leave Just 182 Stores

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Warren Shoulberg**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/warrenshoulberg/2019/11/07/sears-will-shut-down-to-just-182-stores/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2808319375&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

Say this about Eddie Lampert: he is nothing if not consistent.On the heels of an announcement of another round of financing – partially funded once again by Lampert – his new holding company, Transform, said it will close 96 more stores. Coupled with earlier announced closings, it will leave Sears and its Kmart doppelgänger with just 182 remaining locations.
If you do the math, that’s 243 stores that will have closed in the less than a year since Lampert bought what was left of Sears Holdings, promising to save 45,000 jobs and restore the massively destroyed company back to profitability.
This pattern of store closings, layoffs and Lampert-funded infusions of cash has been standard operating procedure for much of the past decade…and beyond. In 2005 when Lampert put these two legendary retailing nameplates –each at one time the largest retailer in the country – together, the combined company was doing $55 billion in annual sales from some 3,300 locations.
As a private corporation, nobody knows exactly how much the remaining business does. In its last full year as a public company, fiscal 2018, Sears Holding annual revenue was about $16.7 billion and when it filed bankruptcy 11 months ago it still operated 820 stores.
Again, do the math: 638 stores closed in the year since the bankruptcy filing.
It’s unknown exactly what the new financing deal, which adds about $150 million to an existing $100 million earlier loan, will be used for. In a statement to Reuters, which first reported the news of the financing and store closings, the company said Sears owners have been “working hard to position... for success by focusing on our competitive strengths and pruning operations that have struggled due to increased competition and other factors.”
Lampert recently closed on a deal to buy the outlet and specialty appliance retail chain that was once a part of Sears but had been spun off. He has talked about focusing on these smaller stores, though they too have posted losses for the past few years, with substantial closings and disputes with individual franchisees and operators.
It shouldn’t come as a surprise to anyone if this new collection of locations experiences the same pattern of deconstruction that has been Lampert’s trademark for the better part of two decades.
