
# Kohls’ Leaked Black Friday 2019 Ad Has Huge Deals On PS4, Xbox One And Nintendo Switch

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dave Thier**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidthier/2019/11/02/kohls-black-friday-2019-leaked-ad-has-huge-deals-on-ps4-xbox-one-and-nintendo-switch/)

We’re starting to get some ads from major retailers for Black Friday 2019 now, and it looks like our first stop is going to be Kohl’s, the discount retailer that reliably puts up some of the best video game deals that we see from any retailer on Black Friday. And now that we’re seeing what their PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Nintendo Switch deals are, it’s looking like Kohl’s will once again be a solid place to pick up some new gaming hardware.The reason that Kohl’s is always such a good bet on Black Friday is not because of their raw prices: those are usually about the same as what we see elsewhere. It’s because of the traditional Black Friday promotion where you get $15 in Kohl’s cash for every $50 spent, which adds up pretty quickly. I don’t always consider store credit as part of a strict discount, but at a place like Kohl’s I think it makes sense to do so. It’s a huge generalist retailer that almost definitely sells something you need, whether that’s video game related or not. So even if you don’t need another game, you can spend that $60 on gifts for other people or, you know, towels and underwear.
Here are the doorbustsers headlining Kohls’ video game deals for Black Friday 2019:
So those Jedi: Fallen Order bundles seem like they’re going to be the hot ticket this Black Friday, and I have to imagine that we’re going to see similar bundles from other retailers. It’s a good deal regardless–this is what we saw last year for 500 gb consoles, but with a 1 TB hard drive in the mix and a nearly-new AAA game to boot.
The Switch deal wouldn’t be worth a second glance if it weren’t for the Kohl’s Cash, but the Kohl’s Cash makes it a huge discount on a piece of Nintendo Hardware, something we almost never see. We’re likely going to see some bundles from other retailers on the Switch, but if this is any indication we’re not going to see strict discounts or anything all that aggressive.
We’re still waiting on other retailers, so stay tuned.
