
# Logan Paul backed to send KSI into retirement as rivals prepare for rematch

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:01:38+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/logan-paul-backed-send-ksi-20828239)

Logan Paul will send KSI into retirement when they clash in their rematch on Saturday.
That is the opinion of social media star Ben Phillips who has backed the American to prevail.
Paul and KSI - real name - meet again in Los Angeles more than a year after their first fight ended in a controversial draw.
And prankster Phillips has no doubt his friend will end the feud in concussive style.
"I think there's a danger KSI will get hurt," he told Mirror Fighting. "There's no doubt, you only have to follow Logan to know the guy trains day in and day out.
"He went into the last fight at the last minute; he did well but he's not messing around this time. KSI took his foot off the pedal, did a Spotify music tour and chilled in McDonald's.
"Logan has taken it seriously, you just have to look at the pair of them to see the size difference. He's surrounded by a great team, he's got Shannon Briggs constantly in his ear.
"There are bigger things than KSI but I almost see this as a charity match.
"It's a great pay cheque for KSI and a great retirement. The government hasn't saved up a good pension for him so someone has to
"I think in the third round, KSI is going to take a massive clip and we'll see it play out in the fourth round We'll see if mentally KSI can hang in there or if his team are going to throw the towel in."
The boxing world is divided as to whether Paul and KSI merit headline the Staples Center having turned professional for their sequel.
But Phillips insists the pair deserve their success.
"I'm not surprised by how big Logan has gone for it," he said. "That guy constantly wants to climb mountains and jump hurdles.
"The first fight was crazy; none of us realised how big it was going to be, not that it sold out, but the online presence was crazy
"Some of the boxing community are p***** off because they are two people out of nowhere who haven't worked all their lives for this career
"But they have worked to get respect to get to where they are. They could have done this in rugby, football or netball and it would still be as big as it is.
"I get that it's annoyed a lot of people but you have got to adapt, life is changing on a daily basis. The sport has always about two men in a ring and the strongest man will win, it's still the same now."
