
# Robinhood Glitch Lets Traders Borrow Unlimited Funds To Buy Stocks

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Donna Fuscaldo**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/donnafuscaldo/2019/11/06/robinhood-glitch-lets-traders-borrow-unlimited-funds-to-buy-stocks/)

Robinhood, the mobile trading app that has more than 6 million users, is contending with a glitch in its platform that enables some traders to use unlimited borrowed money to purchase stocks.Known as “infinite leverage,” traders took to Reddit forums like WallStreetBets earlier this week to brag about the funds they were able to borrow despite the low amounts of cash in their accounts.
One trader boasted being able to get $1 million in borrowed funds with just $4,000. Another trader claimed to be able to borrow $50,000, purchase shares of Apple and subsequently lose the money. Robinhood traders also posted videos and screenshots showing how they were able to manipulate the platform including providing directions. 
First spotted by Bloomberg, the glitch enables traders to inflate their account balances when borrowing money on margin. A common practice among traders, traders borrow money from the brokerage to purchase stocks. The firm, in this case Robinhood and its banking partner, acts as the lender issuing the money based on account balances, creditworthiness, and other criteria. By artificially increasing the account balance the traders were able to get their hands on more money to purchase stocks.
In a statement to Forbes a Robinhood spokesman said it has “recently identified a small number of accounts engaging in problematic trading activity on our platform. We’ve quickly restricted these accounts, and made a permanent update to our systems intended to prevent anyone from engaging in this pattern of trades. We’ll continue to monitor closely for any type of abusive activity on our platform and will take action as appropriate." 
This isn’t the first time Robinhood has had to contend with missteps since launching in 2013. Last year it made a PR blunder when it was forced to pull its new checking and savings account off the market. It boasted an interest rate of 3% but the product ran afoul of regulators. It held off until October in finally rolling out a cash management account, which now has a 1.8% APY. Despite that misstep and the glitch its dealing with now, Robinhood should continue on its meteoric rise. Since launching in 2013, it has amassed more customers than E*Trade and has a valuation of $7.6 billion.
Venture capitalists can’t get enough of the startup, throwing hundreds of millions of dollars it's way. In July it raised $323 million giving it the hefty valuation it now commands. It also has aspirations beyond trading. It recently applied for a national bank charter with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Its not clear how far those efforts will go given the OCC is losing its power to grant nonbank entities bank charters.
Robinhood isn’t the only high profile fintech to suffer from technical issues in recent weeks. In mid-October Chime, a popular challenger bank, experienced an outage that lasted more than 24 hours, preventing many of its more than 5 million customers from making payments and accessing their cash. Chime blamed its payment processor, saying it was experiencing problems that brought down Chime’s website and mobile app. In September Chime suffered a similar, albeit briefer, outage. 
