
# Manager reveals why Wolves star Adama Traore phoned him

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:15:45+00:00**

Author: **Alex Dicken, https://www.facebook.com/alexdickenjournalist/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/manager-reveals-wolves-star-adama-17199059)

Tony Pulis has revealed how he kick-started Wolverhampton Wanderers winger Adama Traore’s career.
Traore, 23, struggled to make an impact in his first two seasons in English football and couldn’t get a game under Garry Monk prior to Pulis’ appointment as Middlesbrough manager in 2017.
With a little help from Pulis - who has since dubbed Traore his ‘best buddy’ - the rapid flanker ripped the Championship apart during the second half of 2017/18.
A similar pattern has emerged following his £18million transfer to Wolves as Traore largely watched on from the bench during his first season under Nuno Espirito Santo before exploding into life this term.
The Spaniard already has two goals and six assists to his name this season and has proved himself to be competent in three positions within Nuno’s system.
And Pulis has shed some light on his relationship with Traore who he says still calls him to ask for his opinion.
This is your round up of all things Wolves; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Wolves throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WWFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Wolves reporter Alex Dicken on Twitter, and his email address is Alex.Dicken@reachplc.com
 
"I used to have him in my room to talk to him at times because I felt he needed it," Pulis said.
"When I went to Middlesbrough this kid wasn't being played. He had exceptional talent, I used to bring him in, sit him down, he'd make me a green tea, and we'd just talk about his game.
"Even today not so long ago he called me to see how I am and asked whether I'd watched one of his games. You make that connection.
"With others you find they're not your type and you won't spend as much time with them, but they're still important to you so you treat them well."
