
# Sinitta claims she pitched X Factor replacement to ITV before Simon Cowell

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:03:49+00:00**

Author: **Kelly Allen**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/sinitta-claims-pitched-x-factor-20836175)

While Simon Cowell and Little Mix battle over who’s idea it was to form a band for a new show - Sinitta says in fact she actually came up with the format first.
She says she’s been working on a show for 18 months long before either the girl group’s The Search or Simons’ The X Factor : The Band was planned.
In the footage from the pilot, which was filmed in November 2018, she explains: “Little Mix are all grown up and there isn’t a new girlband that’s killing it so we are going to make one.”
She claims she pitched the show to Simon Cowell as well as Syco MD Tyler Brown.
She continued: “We created our show late summer 2018. I showed the orginal idea to Tyler at Syco music then a little bit to Simon.”
Simon even features in some of the clips giving advice to some of the singers telling them “there is no guarantees” in the music industry.
There’s no guarantees your mate won’t take your idea either Simon!
But Sinitta has no hard feelings that her pal has gone with a similar format.
A well placed source explained: “Sinitta pitched the show to Simon last year. She’s already has her series edited. She’s been snapped up by a TV agent and has been meeting with networks. This was long before either Simon or Little Mix announced their shows.”

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webtv@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
