
# Aston Villa's John McGinn stance, Manchester United move chances & Liverpool transfer clamour

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/mcginn-transfer-liverpool-man-utd-17089754)

The January transfer window is under two months away - and there is already an ongoing talking point at Villa Park.
Aston Villa will be able to buy and sell players again as they take stock at the half-way point of their Premier League campaign.
Speaking after Villa splashed the cash to the tune of over £130m in the summer window, Dean Smith admitted: "We have January if we need to and we have funds for that."
While players have been linked with joining Villa, the rumour making the most noise at the moment is concerning a potential departure.
John McGinn, Villa’s all-action midfielder, has been linked with Manchester United since pre-season, with his eye-catching Premier League displays only intensifying that link.
So what are the chances of the Scotland international making the move to Old Trafford anytime soon?
Here’s what we know about the speculation.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Manchester United were said to be highly impressed with McGinn as he helped guide Villa to promotion last season.
It was reported in the summer that Old Trafford transfer chiefs are keen on the 25-year-old – and it appears they still are.
United are ready to back Ole Gunnar Solskjaer in January after their worst start to a campaign for three decades and have drawn up a transfer shortlist to work through.
According to ESPN, McGinn - who has scored three league goals so far this term, as well as an international hat-trick for Scotland - is one of the names on it and a potential move will be explored.
But United are aware they are likely to have to wait until the summer for Villa to even think about the prospect of selling, after a £50m price-tag was reportedly put on the former Hibernian player's head.
 
It was suggested in the summer legendary United boss Sir Alex had recommended McGinn to his former employers.
And with nothing having materialised then, Ferguson has been backed to push Old Trafford decision-makers into signing his compatriot when they get chance again.
Bobby Jenks, the scout who helped bring the McGinn to Villa, believes the ex-manager, who still wields significant influence at the club, will be using his influence to encourage a move.
“He’s up there with the best-performing midfielders in the division," Jenks told the Athletic. “Wait until he’s had a year at that level and then we can say more.
“What I do know is that Sir Alex Ferguson is wondering why Manchester United let a talented Scottish boy slip through. He’ll be keeping a close eye on him that’s for sure and if he continues the way he is, you can bet he’ll be telling his pals at United, too.”
 
Pundits and former players, meanwhile, have gone positively potty about the prospect of the transfer coming off.
Alan Brazil, the ex-United forward and talkSPORT presenter, said: “He’s top class for me. I love that he works his socks off and is busy all the time. He’s got a great engine.
“I’m gutted because I thought Celtic were getting him until something happened. But I’m pleased for him.
“Six weeks ago Manchester United were very interested in him. Without a doubt [he’s a good fit for United].
“McGinn would get the Old Trafford crowd going for a start, just with his energy and enthusiasm, and his ability.”
Noel Whelan told Football Insider : “When you watch Villa, McGinn is the best player every game. He is involved in everything and is a fantastic player.
“That is why Man United are looking at him for January. That’s what I’ve been told. They’re scouting him. I think Man United could do with someone like McGinn. He would be far better for them than someone like Juan Mata.”
After McGinn starred against Liverpool on Saturday, plenty of Reds fans begged Jurgen Klopp to take him to Anfield.
One said: "Liverpool needs to look at McGinn as a long term Milly (Milner) replacement. Quality player!"
"Thought Villa were excellent," said another. "Yes we created a lot of chances but they didn’t just put 11 behind the ball. McGinn looks a top player."
A third added: "Credit to Villa, they were good. McGinn would be a great signing for us to add to the Scottish contingent (of 1). Absolutely amazing end to the game, Trent class all game."
While a fourth mused: "McGinn would be a great signing for #LFC to replace Lallana, who is likely to leave at the end of the season."
 
Smith has warned McGinn's admirers that he's not for sale. The Villa boss said: "The big clubs can come calling but they’ll get a short, swift reply! He’s a player we want here at Aston Villa.
"His value shot up from the moment he stepped out onto the Villa Park pitch and showed just what a player he is.
"He has an unbelievable energy level and a big, big heart, but people don’t see the technical side of it as well – he’s got that in abundance.
"He’s a really top player and pivotal to us getting promoted last season. He’s continued that form in the Premier League and his value would have certainly shot up."
McGinn was asked directly about the United rumour in August and admitted he laughed when he saw it.
"I had a little chuckle at it. I’m sure a lot of people did," he told the Daily Record , also revealing his manager teased him about it.
"Certainly the gaffer and the players here had a bit of banter about it at my expense," he added.
"It is up to me to go and prove it is justified. At that point my whole mindset was on Villa and being successful here."
 
Having cost just £2.75m in 2018, McGinn must be one of Villa’s bargain signings of the century and his consistent form in claret and blue is testament to the scouting team who convinced their bosses to bring him in.
It wouldn’t be outlandish to suggest he’s probably worth about 20 times that fee now after just how easily he’s taken to Premier League football.
Villa know that the better he gets, the more a move to a club like United will get talked up but there is zero desire to cash in.
He is still young, and improving, and Villa were wise to tie him down to a new five-year contract ahead of the season.
If United come knocking in January they will be turned away and that is probably the case for next summer too unless an offer of epic proportion is put on the table.
As for McGinn, he is loving life at Villa, working under a manager who knows how to get the best out of him and coaching staff who are lifting his game every week on the training pitches at Bodymoor Heath.
He's absolutely vital to the side and Villa will be hoping it remains that way for years to come.
