
# Mariah Carey battles elf for a packet of crisps as she stars in Walkers Christmas ad

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:42:59+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/mariah-carey-battles-elf-packet-20794417)

Mariah Carey, 49, has bagged a starring role in Walkers crisps 2019 Christmas advert - where she uses her famous singing voice to nab a packet of crisps from a festive elf.
The advert, which will air on ITV during Saturday night's Celebrity X Factor , begins with the iconic hitmaker on a snowy set as she is being filmed belting out her Christmas hit All I Want For Christmas Is You before the director wraps the shoot.
Looking every inch the diva, the curvy beauty can be seen dressed in a plunging sparkling gown as she goes on to hand out elaborate gifts to the crew such as a box of doves, silk kimonos and gold-framed paintings of unicorns.
She tells: "I love Christmas. It's a magical time, a time for giving, a time for caring, a time for sharing."
After working up an appetite from performing and gift-giving, the star makes a beeline for the catering table to find there is only one bag of Walkers' pig in blankets-flavoured crisps left.
As the songbird supreme reaches for the foil packet another hand grabs the snack - a friendly looking elf.
He pipes up: "It's the last bag" and quickly forgetting her pledge for Christmas kindness, Mariah replies: "I saw them first."
The duo both tug at the potato chips before Mariah belts out a glass-shattering high-pitched note - that leaves onlookers covering their ears - that leads to the elf surrendering the yuletide flavour crisps.
Feeling generous she then goes on to hand the North Pole native a single crisp.
Speaking about the minute-long footage, mega star Mariah shared: “I had a lot of fun filming this commercial with Walkers. I’ve always loved their crisps from my trips to the UK and everyone knows I love feeling festive, so it was the perfect collaboration for me – it’s also a great way of celebrating the 25th anniversary of All I Want for Christmas Is You !”
Wayne Newton, head of marketing at Walkers, said: “It doesn’t get more Christmassy than Mariah Carey singing All I Want for Christmas Is You and that’s exactly what’s in our new advert.
"As well as entertaining the nation with our trademark humour, the campaign brilliantly launches our festive flavours for the season. This year is one of the biggest yet for Walkers, with our new campaign, limited edition flavours and huge on-pack promotion – we hope consumers will love it.”
