
# Samsung W20 5G foldable phone to arrive on November 19th -

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:13:04+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/07/samsung-w20-5g-foldable-phone-to-arrive-on-november-19th/)

Samsung W20 5G foldable phone to arrive on November 19th3 (60%) 2 votes
After the release of the Samsung Galaxy Fold and the numerous issues that followed, Samsung now has more experience with foldable phones. There have been several reports that the company is working on another foldable device. Now, it appears that we will be seeing its second official foldable phone soon. According to some new posters, the company will have a launch event in Wuhan on November 19th where it will release the Samsung W20 5G foldable phone.
From the official poster, the Samsung W20 is not a flip phone as speculated rather, it is a foldable device. This smartphone uses the same folding pattern as the Samsung Galaxy Fold. It can fold to the left or right while retaining its appearance. In addition, the wireless certification information shows that a version of the Samsung Galaxy Fold comes with model number SM-W2020. This model number feels very likely to be the W20 5G phone.
We know that Samsung Galaxy Fold does not support 5G network. Thus, it is most likely that the Samsung W20 5G phone is the 5G version of Samsung Galaxy Fold. Considering that Samsung Galaxy Fold sells for as much as 15,999 yuan ($2292),  the Samsung W20 5G phone should approach 20,000 yuan ($2866).

        Via
      
