
# Possible justice delays due to court backlogs

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/02/4181797-possible-justice-delays-due-to-court-backlogs/)

COURT cases in Mayo are increasingly facing the threat of delays due to potential backlogs in the Probation Service.
The issue was highlighted at a District Court sitting in Castlebar where the probation officer, in a matter that was adjourned for a report, indicated that the case had not yet been assigned due to a backlog of cases.
A three-month time period has traditionally been given for the production of reports.
It was indicated to Judge Fiona Lydon that the workload on probation officers has increased, while a colleague being on long-term leave was also having an impact.
There were also a number of high risk cases coming in, which have to be prioritised.
In the case in question, the judge said she was concerned as it involved a feud.
There are two probation officers based in Co. Mayo and they receive some assistance from the Sligo office.
The increased workload nationally is shown in the monthly offenders case-load reports published by the Probation Service. This month (October), in the west and north west region (Galway, Mayo, Sligo, Leitrim, Longford, Roscommon, Cavan, Monaghan, Donegal and Westmeath), the case-load is 1,667 offenders. That's up from 1,333 for the same month last year, with similar numbers in 2017 (1,313) and '16 (1,228).
Prosecutions have been increasing.
The Department of Justice press office, in a statement, said the Sligo/Mayo Probation Service team is currently managing in excess of 300 cases.
At all times the team strives to deliver a high quality professional service to the courts and other stakeholders. As a demand-led service, it may happen that the demand for service temporarily outweighs capacity to deliver from time-to-time.
In such instances the Probation Service works closely with the court to identify priorities, including targeting resources as a priority to moderate and higher risk offenders, where their work can have greatest effect in contributing to community safety through working with the offender to change his or her behaviour.
