
# Roger L. Wand

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:06:17+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CHANNEL3000](https://www.channel3000.com/obituaries/roger-l-wand/1138990586)

Roger L. Wand age 87 of Monroe, passed away peacefully on Sunday, November 3, 2019 at the Monroe Clinic Hospice Home.
Roger was born on June 13, 1932 in Gratiot, the son of Joseph and Mary J. (Gille) Wand. He graduated from Gratiot High School in 1950 and served in the U.S. Army from 1953 until his honorable discharge in 1955. Roger married Gloria A. Johnson on October 5, 1963 in Gratiot. He worked for Dormans from 1958 until retiring as a production supervisor in 1994. Roger then worked seasonal at Windy Acres for another 12 years. He was a member of St. Victor Catholic Church and the Monroe Moose Lodge #754. Roger loved being outside working in his yard, but one of his main passions was hunting. He was a member of the North American Hunting Club, the N.R.A., and took several trips to Park Falls, Colorado, Idaho, and Alaska to pursue wild game.
He is survived by his sister, Leah Waelti of Monroe; a brother, Robert Wand of Shullsburg; sister-in-law, Camella Wand of Gratiot; brothers-in-law, Russell (Donna) Johnson of Monroe, David (Kay) Johnson of Surprise, AZ; and many nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his parents; his wife, Gloria on September 20, 2015; two brothers, George and Anthony Wand; brother-in-law, Ambrose Waelti; and two sisters-in-law, Maryon and Mary Lou Wand.
A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Saturday, November 9, 2019, at 1:00 p.m., at St. Clare of Assisi Parish at St. Victor Catholic Church, with Monsignor Larry Bakke, Celebrant. Interment with military services will follow in Calvary Cemetery, Monroe. Visitation will be at the church on Saturday from 11:00 a.m. until the time of mass at 1:00 p.m. A memorial fund will be established in Roger's name.
The NEWCOMER FUNERAL HOME, Monroe, is assisting the family.
Condolences may be shared at www.newcomerfuneralhome.net
