
# Nate Diaz shows off two gruesome cuts after UFC 244 fight with Jorge Masvidal was stopped

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:59:54+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/nate-diaz-shows-two-gruesome-20801858)

Nate Diaz shrugged off two gruesome cuts around his eye to demand a rematch with Jorge Masvidal.
Diaz was well behind on the judges scorecards when the cageside doctor brought a halt to his fight with Masvidal after three rounds at UFC 244.
That saw Masvidal crowned the Baddest Motherf***** by Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson while Diaz had stitches to both injuries.
And the Stockton native called on the UFC to order an immediate rematch.
He said: "If you’re the baddest motherf***** you're going to take that as a win?
"It’s just like when I fought Conor [McGregor]. It was a win, and it was fair game, but I wasn’t finished. He knows I wasn’t finished. I was ready to rock.
 
"That’s my plan, that’s my next move; I would love to run it back, that’s the only thing I want to do. And that’s my full intention for now.
“But I can already see the f***ery coming. I know how this game works. I gave all the rematches and made names for all these people."
But Diaz's hopes of a second shot at Masvidal were dashed by UFC president Dana White who performed a U-turn in admitting the doctor was right to stop the fight.
Initially he said the five-round clash should have been allowed to continue but later admitted: "Cuts that big are always a problem.
"When it first got stopped, I was like, 'You guys didn’t stop the Tyson Fury fight (against Otto Walin)'.
"But then as I went back and talked with Nate Diaz and looked at Nate Diaz’s face... the fight probably should have been stopped.
"Could Nate Diaz keep going? Yes, that’s why we love Nate Diaz. But it probably should have been stopped."
White added: “No, [the rematch] doesn’t interest me right away.
"I think that I got asked a couple of questions tonight: ‘Diaz comes on in the later rounds. If this fight had gone later, would they have stopped it?’
"But it didn’t. It got stopped with cuts and Masvidal looked very dominant. And he looked good."
