
# NBCUniversal Releases Former Employees From Nondisclosure Agreements, Spurring The Conversation

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Elana Lyn Gross**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/elanagross/2019/11/04/nbcuniversal-releases-former-employees-from-nondisclosure-agreements-spurring-the-conversation/)

On October 25, MSNBC anchor Rachel Maddow announced on air that NBCUniversal, the parent company of her network and NBC News, would allow former employees to be released from nondisclosure agreements. “Any former NBC News employee who believes that they cannot disclose their experience with sexual harassment as a result of a confidentiality or non-disparagement provision in their separation agreement should contact NBCUniversal and we will release them from that perceived obligation,” a spokesperson for NBCUniversal said in a statement. Later in the show, Maddow interviewed journalist Ronan Farrow about his new book “Catch and Kill,” in which he says that his reporting on Harvey Weinstein was blocked during his time at NBC. NBC has said that Farrow’s reporting wasn’t ready for publication. He discussed his reporting process at NBC with Maddow and weighed in on the new announcement about NDAs. “NBC executives deserve praise for that. As of today, Rachel, I have spoken to multiple women who knew that I was going to be talking about this more and expressed agony about the fact that they are constrained by these agreements,” he said, “Executives involved told me they were payouts to silence them. The fact that they are ending that and releasing these women is significant. It should be a model to other companies.” 
While nondisclosure agreements have long been standard practice at large corporations and particularly in the media industry, they have been scrutinized in recent years for being used to silence employees who have been sexually harassed. “For decades, powerful corporations have relied on NDAs to sweep sexual misconduct under the rug, often paying out millions of dollars to keep employees silent about the predatory behavior of senior executives,” former Fox News reporter Diana Falzone wrote in a Vanity Fair article published October 28. “The system works against victims in other ways too: Litigation is costly, stressful, and frequently prohibits or otherwise prevents a litigant from obtaining new employment,” she wrote.
In response to the NBC announcement, at least six former Fox News employees are asking to be released from their nondisclosure agreements, according to the Vanity Fair reporting. A Fox spokesperson declined to comment. One of the women who spoke on the record is Gretchen Carlson, the first person to publicly file a sexual harassment lawsuit against former Fox News CEO Roger Ailes. She filed the suit in July 2016 and he resigned weeks later, but denied the sexual harassment allegations made against him by Carlson and, reportedly, by at least ten women. Her suit was reportedly settled for $20 million in September 2016. Ailes died the following May.
“None of us asked to get into a workplace dispute. We simply had the courage to stand up and say something — but in the end it’s our voices no one can hear,” Carlson told Vanity Fair, “Until we get rid of NDAs for sexual harassment or assault, women will never be truly equal. NDAs grant the ultimate secrecy, serving to keep our society’s gender inequality intact.” 
On October 30, NBC News Digital employees announced that they unionized with NewsGuild. “Recent weeks have highlighted serious questions as to how NBC News has handled incidents of sexual misconduct in the workplace as well as the opaque processes and procedures for reporting on and exposing powerful predators. NBC News repeatedly refused calls for an independent review on both counts despite numerous such requests from staff,” they wrote in the statement, “This lack of transparency and NBC News' troubling trend of passing on stories which investigate the powerful ultimately harm our credibility as journalists.” 
In reply to a request for comment, a spokesperson from NBC sent Forbes an email that Chris Berend, the executive vice president of digital for NBC News Group sent to staff the next day. “I want you to know we are deeply committed to a fair and healthy workplace for all our employees,” he wrote, “We welcome this dialogue from within our digital organization, and any constructive conversation aimed at building the future of NBC News Digital and ensuring that we’re the best we can be.”
The statement alluded to two of the claims Farrow made in his new book, that the network interfered with his reporting on Harvey Weinstein, and concerns about how executives handled the sexual harassment allegations against former “Today” anchor Matt Lauer. After receiving some criticism that the investigation wasn’t thorough enough because it was an internal investigation, Hilary Smith, the senior vice president of corporate communications at NBCUniversal clarified that two law firms consulted with the inquiry into whether executives addressed the sexual harassment claims “promptly and appropriately.” Led by NBCUniversal General Counsel Kim Harris, it ultimately “found no evidence indicating that any NBC News or Today Show leadership, News HR or others in positions of authority in the News Division received any complaints about Lauer’s workplace behavior prior to November 27, 2017.”
Legislatures in at least 13 states have limited or prohibited employers from requiring employees to sign nondisclosure agreements as a condition of being hired or as part of a settlement agreement, according to the National Women’s Law Center. The legislation has gone into effect in Arizona, California, Illinois, Louisiana, Maryland, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia and Washington. Changing the laws concerning nondisclosure agreements for hiring and settlement agreements is an important step and, in the meantime, it is up to companies to evaluate the instances in which nondisclosure agreements should be enforced and how they can be used to silence people from publicly speaking out about their experiences.
