
# Drug dealer stashed heroin in dog food box before cops raided Paisley flat

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:09:00+00:00**

Author: **Ron Moore, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/ron-moore/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/dealer-used-dog-food-box-20791693)

A dealer busted with almost £5,000 worth of Class-A drugs has been jailed.
Brian Dock, 39, was nabbed during a raid by cops at his flat in Paisley’s George Street.
Dock was arrested following a tip-off that he had been dealing from the address and officers also found he had six mobile phones; £500 in mixed bank notes; around £4,600-worth of cocaine and £240-worth of heroin.
Dock, who has two previous convictions for possession of drugs, appeared at Paisley Sheriff Court and pleaded guilty to possession of cocaine with intention to supply in Paisley on March 20.
He also admitted possession of heroin on the same date.
 
Procurator Fiscal Depute Joanne Gilmour told the court: “Police officers attended the locus at around 7.15pm in possession of a search warrant.
“They entered the property and the accused was located within. He was informed he was being detained for the purpose of a search.
“A search was carried out and in a top shelf kitchen cupboard white powder, identified as cocaine weighing 115 grams, was found.
“There was also brown powder recovered from a dog food box in the kitchen.
“It was identified as diamorphine and weighed 5.4 grams.
“There was also six mobile phones and £500 in mixed notes recovered from the living room.”
The fiscal added that Dock was taken into custody where he was cautioned and charged, but made no reply to officers.
Dock appeared for sentencing yesterday and his defence agent Kirsty McGeehan urged the court to consider his early plea of guilty when handing him his punishment.
 
She said: “The accused accepts full responsibility of for the offence.
“He is single but in a relationship and only too well realises the impact this will have, not only on himself, but others.
“He does have a record of drug misuse but fully appreciates the position he is in today given the serious nature of the charge.”
Sheriff James Spy said custody was the only suitable sentence.
He told him: “You pleaded guilty to a serious offence, trafficking in Class-A drugs, worth in excess of £4,500.
“You don’t have a conviction for drug trafficking, but you do have a convictions for drugs offences.
“Given the serious nature of the charge, it is custody for you today.”
He handed Dock ten months in jail, reduced from 15 months because of his guilty plea.
