
# T-Mobile plans 10 years of free 5G unlimited service for first responders pending Sprint merger

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:25:12+00:00**

Author: **Michael Potuck**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/07/new-t-mobile-free-5g-first-responders/)

T-Mobile’s CEO, John Legere, announced today that if the merger with Sprint goes through, New T-Mobile will give free 5G unlimited service for 10 years to first responders.
Reported by The Verge, the new plan comes through the Connecting Heroes Initiative. Legere shared more on the new program:
The carrier also says on the Connecting Heroes website that it is shooting to cover 90% of rural Americans with 5G over the next five years.
Eligible agencies can join a waitlist to now on T-Mobile’s Connecting Heroes page to get ready for the free coverage.
Legere believes that across the US, over the next 10 years, almost $8 billion could be saved by fire, police, and EMS agencies by using the free 5G offer.
Notably, this could be a great way to convert a lot of agencies. It’s common for carriers to offer a discount and data prioritization for first responders but this may be the first plan to give totally free service (for 10 years nonetheless) to fire, police, and EMS agencies.
As a side note, the announcement of this program also makes it look like T-Mobile and Sprint are confident about the merger going through as they face a multi-state lawsuit from state attorneys general.
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
