
# The Queen's touching Rugby World Cup final message to England squad

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:25:12+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/queens-touching-rugby-world-cup-17188297)

The Queen has wished England's Rugby World Cup team her "very best" for a "memorable and successful match" in the final against South Africa on Saturday.
Her grandson the Duke of Sussex will present the message to the players and England head coach Eddie Jones ahead of the much-anticipated game in Japan.
Harry is travelling to Japan in his role as patron of the Rugby Football Union and will probably visit the national team in their changing room to deliver the Queen's words in person before the match begins at the International Stadium Yokohama.
The Queen says in her message to the players: "Your performances during the tournament have delighted supporters, and inspired many people throughout the country.
 
"I send my congratulations to the England team, management and support staff on reaching the 2019 Rugby World Cup final, together with my very best wishes for a memorable and successful match."
Harry has left wife Meghan and baby son Archie behind for his trip to the Far East and before kick-off he will meet Japanese Paralympic hopefuls in Tokyo.
He has already sent a good luck message of his own to Jones's team, and included a photo of Archie in a Red Rose jersey.
Buckingham Palace said when the duke arrives in Tokyo on Saturday he will visit a purpose-built para-sports training centre.
"The duke will view various training sessions including wheelchair rugby, boccia and powerlifting. His Royal Highness will meet the athletes to hear about their inspiring journeys as they prepare to qualify for Tokyo 2020.
"The duke will also meet a group of local schoolchildren, including from the Yokohama area, where Paralympics GB will be based for pre-Games training."
 
Harry was at the stadium in Sydney when England beat Australia in the 2003 World Cup final and it appears he wants to be part of the experience again.
The duke has met members of England's squad a number of times and is an avid rugby fan who played the sport at school.
