
# Will the Real Slim Shady Please Stand Up? Sen. Rand Paul Says Nothing Can Stop Him From Revealing Ukraine Whistleblower’s Name

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:30:21+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/us/201911061077236578-will-the-real-slim-shady-please-stand-up-rand-paul-says-he-may-reveal-ukraine-whistleblowers-name/)


        While the identity of the whistleblower who complained about Donald Trump’s alleged abuse of power during a phone call with the Ukrainian president on 25 July, prompting an impeachment probe against the US president remains unknown to the public, Trump and other prominent Republicans continue to call for his name to be revealed.
      
Republican Senator from Kentucky Rand Paul said on Tuesday that he “probably will” disclose the name of an anonymous whistleblower whose complaint led to an ongoing impeachment inquiry against US President Donald Trump, following his telephone conversation with Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky, The Hill reported.
When asked by journalists about why he hadn’t already revealed the name of the purported individual, Paul said that he was “more than willing to” and “probably will at some point”.
In a Tuesday night interview with Fox News, Paul also doubled down on calls for the whistleblower to come forward, by saying that there was “nothing” preventing him from saying his name, which he “may” disclose, noting that at present he would not in order to avoid making the process about only one individual.
When replying to a question by the programme’s host Bret Baier about why he didn't disclose the name as part of his Senate speech Paul said “I can, and I may, but I can do it right now if I want. Nothing stops me. There's no law that stops me from doing it other than that I don't want to make it about the one individual”.   
While the whistleblower remains subject to federal protection, Donald Trump, Rand Paul, and some other prominent Republicans have urged reporters to publicly reveal the person’s identity which they claimed to be known by the media, insisting that this would only help the public and allow the president to confront his accuser. 
