
# Centre of excellence key to helping future generations in Down says Ross Carr

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Neil Loughran**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/gaafootball/2019/11/07/news/centre-of-excellence-key-to-helping-future-generations-in-down-says-ross-carr-1758709/)

TWO-TIME All-Ireland winner Ross Carr believes it is incumbent on everybody associated with Down GAA to give future generations “the best opportunity” of achieving success, with the development of a new centre of excellence in Ballykinlar central to that.
Plans for the new £5million-plus facility – which will include four full size pitches, spectator seating, a multi-use games area, car parking, changing rooms, fitness studio and offices – were unveiled at a public information event in Ballykinlar yesterday.
And, subject to planning approval, the county board hopes to see work commence at some stage next year.
As chairman of Club Down Carr has been one of the main drivers behind the project, and he was keen to highlight the work of architect Dermot O'Hagan (JNP Architects) throughout the initial stages of the process.
Having achieved so much in the red and black jersey during his own playing days, he is determined to see the county push on across all codes.
“A centre of excellence is something that’s badly needed for the whole of the county,” he said.
“Ballykinlar is no more than 50 minutes from any GAA club in Down. It’s a sand-based plot that will be usable 50 weeks of the year or more.
“Of course there’s no guarantee of success because there’s a lot of things have to happen at the same time and, in the present climate, what constitutes success? For a lot of counties, outside four or five, provincial titles or even winning a couple of Championship matches in the summer would constitute success.
“Success is relative to where you are and what you have available to you, but I think it’s our job to give those who genuinely commit to Down the best opportunity. For me, this project is only the start of something that Down needs to really dig in and produce.
“The future of the GAA in Down is at a crossroads and some serious conversations need to be had if we’re going to ensure that future; I just hope we have the courage to have them. The last thing we can afford is to just become indifferent.”
It was August 2017 when Down GAA first entered negotiations with the Ministry of Defence regarding the site.
Carr was involved in those discussions, and he believes such a “journey” may not have been able to take place in years gone by.
“When those discussions were taking place, it was very important to respect all sides,” he said.
“Any journey starts with a conversation and sometimes it’s as important to know what door not to knock as what door to knock, so all along that part of the journey we had a number of very sensitive conversations that had to be minded until people on both sides were happy to take another step.
“This journey couldn’t have happened 10 years ago, never mind 20 years ago, so there was a genuine appetite and a genuine showing of goodwill on both sides to try and do something that would be seen to show the north of Ireland in its best light.
“The location is a real good news story in itself.”
