
# Your child's nativity part could predict their future job and earnings

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:59:09+00:00**

Author: **James Andrews, http://www.facebook.com/jameswritesmoney/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/your-childs-nativity-part-could-20816713)

Adults who played one of the oxen in their primary school nativity play end up earning more as adults than any of the rest of the cast.
That's according to new research that asked people some basic questions about their life - along with which part they had in the festive classic.
Brits who played the part of an ox now earn a cool £43,000 a year on average, more than double what people who played a sheep or a lamb now make, figures from Virgin Media show.
But while cattle aren't low-earning, it was Marys who ended up with the most social media followers, while narrators were most likely to get jobs as teachers.
 
The study found Marys were also most likely to be content in their adult life, with 92% of people who took the lead female role saying they are now happy with their lot. Josephs followed soon after, with 91% happy where they ended up.
There was also worrying signs of inequality among the heavenly horde, with former angels earning an average of £25,000 as adults but Gabriels making far, far more at £40,000 each.
And beating classmates to the prime parts isn't something we forget, either.
Some 22% said their role made them feel proud, one in five said it gave them confidence and 7% said starring in the play changed their life. 
Being passed over for the role of donkey isn't something we forget quickly, either.
While one in three said they were happy to hide in the chorus as they would have hated the attention, 9% admitted to wishing one of the stars fell ill so they could step in and the same number said missing out meant they never acted again.
Here's a breakdown of what happens - on average - to people playing the main roles in a traditional Nativity play:
