
# Here's how you can give your NVIDIA Shield TV (2019) a storage upgrade

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/how-upgrade-storage-nvidia-shield-tv?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Marc Lagace / Android Central
      
The brand new NVIDIA Shield TV (2019) offers big departure in terms of hardware design, and with it comes some limitations. Most notably, you only get 8GB of internal storage and there aren't any USB ports for convenient external storage upgrades. However, you do get a microSD slot that lets you quickly access content you've previously loaded onto the card, or you can mount your microSD to be used by the Shield TV as internal storage.
Note: Formatting the microSD card can take several minutes and is dependant on the storage size on the card.
Any SD card you insert into your NVIDIA Shield TV (2019) will be treated as removable storage by default, which allows you to load it up with media files transferred from your PC. If you'd prefer to mount the drive as internal storage, you'll first need to be sure to use a microSD card with UHS-1.
Yes. Right below the device storage info in the storage setting pages is where you would go to mount your existing Network-Attached Storage (NAS) and it's an easy process. If your NAS drive is associated with your home's wireless network, it should pop up as available network storage in the Shield Settings. Alternatively, you can manually add network storage by pointing the Shield to the drive address.
To expand your NVIDIA Shield TV (2019)'s internal storage, all you need is a microSD card that's at least a UHS Speed Class 1 (UHS-1). Anything above or beyond UHS-1 will work just fine too.
64GB of additional storage
Whether you want to migrate over your digital music or movie collection or want to add more space to your Shield TV, this microSD card from Samsung will get the job done. It's available in different storage sizes up to 512GB if you really want to go all-out.
The re-designed NVIDIA Shield TV is designed to be easier to set up and use wherever you need it. You also get a brand new controller that feels great in hand and offers more controls and customization than the previous Shield TV remote.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Get in the game These are the best gaming controllers for the NVIDIA Shield TV The NVIDIA Shield TV lets you enjoy couch multiplayer gaming experiences again thanks to the great support for third-party Bluetooth controllers!
      

        Expand it These are the best drives for expanding the NVIDIA Shield TV Pro's storage It's cheap and easy to expand the internal storage of the NVIDIA Shield TV Pro (2019). We've rounded up the best options for adding additional gigabytes to your favorite set top box.
      

        Secure storage Expand storage on the Galaxy S7 with these microSD cards Still rocking a Galaxy S7 in 2019? Chances are you need a microSD card as your internal storage is probably full at this point. Here are the best ones!
      
