
# Pregnant Paisley teen dodges jail for vicious gang attack on dad and daughter

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:44:16+00:00**

Author: **Ron Moore, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/ron-moore/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/pregnant-paisley-teen-dodges-jail-20790182)

A teenage yob who took part in a brutal gang attack on a father and daughter has been spared jail.
Chloe Robertson, 19, was shown mercy, despite joining thugs David Brannigan, 19, Daniel Dickson, 19, and Kirsteen Templeton, 20, in pouncing on Paul Finnie and Nicole McKechan and robbing them as they waited for a cab in the centre of Paisley.
The town’s sheriff court heard the louts approached Mr Finnie and Ms McKechan to ask for a cigarette – and when he refused they turned violent.

        
          
            PAISLEY DAILY EXPRESS: Live news as it happens
          
        
      
All four either punched or kicked their victims in the town’s County Square in an appalling attack, which was captured on CCTV.
Robertson, of Paisley’s Dundonald Road, appeared for sentencing after admitting her part in the assault and robbery.
Defence agent Michael McKeown told the court his client was in the early stages of pregnancy, but would be willing to carry out unpaid work as part of her punishment.
He said: “She would be fit to carry out unpaid work. However, she is pregnant, with her expected due date in April.
“However, I don’t think it would impede her ability to carry out the work required, and she would agree to carry out the unpaid work required by your lordship.”
Robertson admitted responsibility for assaulting Ms McKechan by repeatedly seizing her by her hair, pulling her to the ground and repeatedly punching her to the head and body.

        READ MORE NEWS:
      
The attack took place on August 4 last year after the victims returned to Paisley following a night out in Glasgow.
Sheriff Colin Pettigrew told her: “The court has heard of the circumstances of the assault and dealt with other people who have been sentenced, including Mr Brannigan who was sentenced to a period in custody.
“That would be the starting point for myself.
“However, I have had to consider whether I can impose a sentence as an alternative to custody given your young age and the fact that your are pregnant.
“I have come to the view that I can avoid imposing a custodial sentence.”
He handed her a Community Payback Order comprising 18 months’ supervision by the local authority, and ordered she carry out 300 hours of unpaid work, the maximum amount, within 15 months.
Her co-accused Brannigan was sentenced to a year in jail last month, for his part in the robbery and assault.
Templeton was handed a Community Payback Order with 18 months’ supervision and ordered to perform 240 hours of unpaid work.
Dickson was admonished for his part in the incident.
