
# In This Week's Edition Of Soccer Laduma

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:47:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/in-this-week-s-edition-of-soccer-laduma-edition-1148/666792)


        
          In anticipation of this week’s 1148th edition of Soccer Laduma, we preview some of the features included. The latest edition will be available at your nearest outlet tomorrow, Wednesday 6th November.
        
      

        Rulani Mokwena Interview
      
Before the start of the 2019/20 season, even the most hardened of Orlando Pirates fans could not have foreseen Rulani Mokwena take the helm as the Buccaneers head coach. After Milutin Sredojevic’s sudden departure, the ambitious 32-year-old took over, and although it hasn’t been an easy start for the former Mamelodi Sundowns assistant coach, Mokwena is determined to make the most the opportunity he has been given. 

        Reneilwe Letsholonyane Interview
      
Many would have thought that Reneilwe Letsholonyane would have called time on his football career at the age of 37, but that certainly hasn't been the case. Now at Highlands Park on a one-year deal, the former Kaizer Chiefs midfielder gives insight into life at the Gauteng-based club, his career plans after football and more.

        Phakamani Mahlambi Interview
      
Pacey forward, Phakamani Mahlambi, has had an eventful career so far, at the age of 22. After impressing at Bidvest Wits, he joined African giants, Al Ahly. However, the Johannesburg-born player only spent a year in Egypt before returning to South Africa. Now at Mamelodi Sundowns, Soccer Laduma’s Tshepang Mailwane finds out Mahlambi's thoughts on the South African U23s and his ambitions to play beyond African shores.

        Also…
      

        GladAfrica Championship interview
      
Real Kings winger, Diego Brown, currently playing for Real Kings based in Durban, shares his experience playing in the Mvela Golden League and shares his thoughts on life at previous GladAfrica outfit, Royal Eagles.

        Jörg Heinrich interview
      
The much anticipated Der Klassiker between Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich comes at the backdrop of Bayern sacking head coach, Niko Kovac. Soccer Laduma decided to catch up with former BVB assistant coach and UEFA Champions League winner, Jörg Heinrich, to get his insight into one of Europe’s most highly anticipated clashes.

        Revolving Column
      
In this week’s revolving column, we caught up with Golden Arrows midfielder, Lindokuhle Mtshali, following their impressive 1-0 victory over SuperSport United, to reach the Telkom Knockout semi-finals. Mtshali opens up about the club’s ambitions, what they expect against favourites, Mamelodi Sundowns in the semi-finals, and his thoughts on his brilliant match-winning free-kick.

        Siyagobhoza
      
In this week’s edition of our beloved Siyagobhoza, the crew reveals news concerning possible VAR implementation in the PSL. During this season, referees have come under intense scrutiny, following a string of questionable calls. With fans, coaches, and clubs in an uproar about this conundrum, the Siya crew found out what would happen should VAR be implemented in South African football.
 

        
          Grab a copy of the latest edition of Soccer Laduma at your nearest outlet tomorrow. Don’t miss out! 
        
      
