
# Amazon discounts some Echo Show devices to their lowest price ever

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:06:00+00:00**

Author: **Igor Bonifacic**

Original: [Engadget](https://www.engadget.com/2019/11/06/amazon-price-drop-echo-show/)

Little known fact: today is Alexa's 5th birthday. To mark the occasion, Amazon is of course holding a sale. And like a lot of the company's sales, there are a lot of questionable offers (free TP Link Smart Plug with Fitbit Versa 2 smartwatch, anyone?). To save you time, we've highlighted a couple of the better deals below.

        Echo Show with free Philips Hue Lightbulb
      
Amazon has discounted the second-generation Echo Show by 31 percent, making it $179.99, instead of $259.98. You'll also get a free Philips Hue A19 lightbulb. The listing doesn't say the specific model included in the promotion, but based on the picture, it's a basic Hue White model that can't change colors.
We liked the second-gen Echo Show a lot when we reviewed it last year, giving it a score of 86. One of the things that stood out for us was the new, streamlined design, as well as the outstanding sound quality from the back-facing speakers.

        Buy Echo Show (2nd gen) on Amazon - $180
      

        Echo Show 5
      
If you want something that takes up less shelf space, Amazon has also discounted the smaller Echo Show 5. It's currently $59.99, down from $89.99. No bonus freebie here. However, according to price tracker Camelcamelcamel, $59.99 is the lowest Amazon has ever sold the Echo Show 5 for.
We awarded the Echo Show 5 an 85 when we reviewed it. In addition to its cute looks, it works great as a sunrise clock -- though you may want to pass on it if you don't want a camera in your bedroom.

        Buy Echo Show 5 on Amazon - $60
      

        Fire 7 and Fire HD 8 Kids Edition
      
Lastly, for those with children, the Kids Edition Fire 7 and Fire HD 8 tablets are also on sale. They're currently $59.99 and $89.99 respectively. We haven't reviewed the Kids Edition tablets specifically, but if you have a long trip coming up, they'll probably help ensure the continued sanity of both you and your kids.

        Buy Fire 7 Kids Edition Tablet on Amazon - $60
      

        Buy Fire HD 8 Kids Edition Tablet on Amazon - $90
      
