
# This Tile Sticker bundle includes a free Google Nest Mini smart speaker

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:46:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/get-google-nest-mini-tile-sticker-bundle?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Tile
      
Tile, the company that makes little stickers and keychains that beep to help you find your stuff, is offering a bundle of its smallest Tile Sticker product with a Google Nest Mini. Instead of buying four Tile Stickers for $60, you can pay $100 and get eight Tile Stickers as well as a Nest Mini, which is one of our favorite small smart speakers.
The Tile Sticker is the smallest of the Tile family, which means it has the quietest beep and the shortest range, still a respectable 150 feet. It also uses a built-in battery, so after about three years, you'll have to toss them and get new ones — presumably bundled with whatever new smart speaker Google is pushing then.

        Source: Best Buy
      
The Verge has also spotted an early Black Friday deal at Best Buy that gives you a choice of a free Google Nest Mini or an Amazon Echo Dot with a bundle of Tile products.
The deal isn't well-publicized, but if you search for either of those smart speakers, there is a link that says "Hot Offer Free Smart Speaker with Device" that opens a box with a selection of qualifying Tile products. On Best Buy, you can pick up the Nest Mini with only a four-pack of Tile Stickers, instead of the eight-pack at Tile.
Tile Stickers and a smart speaker bundle
The new Tile Sticker is capable of sticking to virtually anything so you never lose track of your most important items. New 8-pack bundles come with a Google Nest Mini speaker.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Unlimited Means Limited AT&T will pay $60 million after hiding data throttling The FTC has settled its case with AT&T for $60 million. AT&T was accused of failing to inform customers of its data throttling practice while marketing plans as "unlimited."
      

        It's Back This new Android Auto app fixes a problem Google created for newer phones Android Auto for phone screens has finally been released for users who lost access to Android Auto after the Android 10 update.
      

        A decent mid-ranger The Nokia 6.2 arrives in the U.S. with Android One for $249 The Nokia 6.2 with triple rear cameras and stock Android is now available in the U.S. for $249.
      

        Security just got fashionable Best accessories for your Blink security systems Being secure is always important, but what accessories are out there that further improves your security system? Thankfully, I have just the answers for you.
      
