
# Holy Cross holds off Lehigh 24-17 for Patriot League lead

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:20:18+00:00**

Author: **EndPlay**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/massachusetts/holy-cross-holds-off-lehigh-2417-for-patriot-league-lead/1004393669?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

BETHLEHEM, Pa. (AP) - Connor Degenhardt threw for one touchdown and ran for another and Holy Cross held on for a 24-17 win over Lehigh in a battle of Patriot League leaders on Saturday.
The Crusaders (5-4, 3-0) led 23-7 after Degenhardt his Tenio Ayeni for a 14-yard touchdown early in the third quarter. The Mountain Hawks (4-4, 3-1) got back into the game, but Chris Riley picked off a Tyler Monaco pass at the Holy Cross 5-yard line with 49 seconds left to seal the game.
Lehigh had won four straight, with all three league games decided on the final play.
Degenhardt capped a 91-yard drive with a 1-yard plunge midway through the first quarter, a score set up by Domenic Cozier's career-long 88-yard run. Cozier finished with 190 yards on 22 carries.
The Crusaders led 17-7 at the half and on the first play of the third quarter Terrell Prince forced a fumble and Kendrick Knight recovered on the Lehigh 33. Degenhardt cashed in with his touchdown pass six plays later.
Tyler Monaco cut the deficit to 10 on a 33-yard hookup with Devon Bibbens after an interception, and a field goal with 6:41 to play provided the final points. Monaco was 26 of 39 for 282 yards.
Holy Cross had a 388-319 yard advantage in total offense, with a 266-37 difference in rushing. Both teams had two turnovers, but Holy Cross had four sacks.
