
# Norwegian Billionaire Invests In Thomas Cook Scandinavia, Airline To Rebrand

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **David Nikel**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidnikel/2019/11/02/norwegian-billionaire-invests-in-thomas-cook-scandinavia-airline-to-rebrand/)

When Thomas Cook went under last month leaving tens of thousands of passengers stranded and thousands of staff out of work, Thomas Cook Scandinavia moved quickly to distance itself from trouble. The Nordic business had always been operated at arms length from the UK-based Thomas Cook under the name Ving Group. It did suspend flights following the parent company’s bankruptcy, but resumed them within a couple of days.It seemed likely that a buyer would be found for the profitable business. The brands operated by the company are some of the most popular in Scandinavia and unlike its parent company, Ving in Norway and Sweden had been profitable for years. Aviation analyst Hans Jørgen Elnæs told Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten that Ving’s reputation was strong and “had less competition than Thomas Cook has had in Germany and England.”
Now, the Norwegian billionaire hotel owner and entrepreneur Petter Stordalen has led the purchase of the Ving Group by a group of investors. Stordalen's company Strawberry Group takes a 40% stake in the airline along with capital fund Altor. TDR Capital owns the remaining 20%. Through Strawberry, Stordalen also owns the Nordic Choice hotel chain consisting of around 200 properties, almost all of which are in Norway and Sweden.
At a press conference announcing the takeover in Stockholm, Stordalen said the deal was special. “This deal unites the heart and brain. I have the heart and the partners have the brain.”
The new ownership group has taken over all assets and more than 1,000 employees of the airline, a great relief for all involved after weeks of uncertainty. As part of the deal, Thomas Cook Airlines Scandinavia has become SunClass Airlines and will operate under a new aircraft operating certificate (AOC).
In addition, SunClass Airlines states that the change of AOC and name will have no negative impact on travelers who have booked tickets with the former Thomas Cook Airlines Scandinavia.
The first SunClass Airlines flight from Copenhagen to Cape Verde flew earlier this week, just one day after the announcement. The new airline’s CEO Per Knudsen praised the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority for making “extraordinary efforts” and showing great flexibility to get a quick approval for the new AOC.
“It's great to be able to start a new AOC with the start of operations already the day after we have closed the old one. It is a historic transaction that has never been done before,” said Knudsen.
The SunClass Airlines fleet consists of two Airbus A330-200s, three Airbus A330-300s and eight Airbus A321-200s.
