
# 2 ’leftist’ militants held over guns, explosives

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:53:23+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/2-leftist-militants-held-over-guns-explosives)

He identified the two as Michael Bartolome,39, a native of Ilocos Norte and his live-in partner Cora Agovida,37, a native of Masbate province who are both residing at  Room 1189-B, Julio Nakpil Street in Barangay 686, Zone 75, District 5, Paco, Manila.
Sinas said that agents of the MPD under Brig. Gen. Bernabe M. Balba raided the couple’s residence  and placed them under arrest after the search yielded a cache of firearms, explosives and ammunition.
The NCRPO director said they are still verifying the links of the couple with militant groups in Metro Manila.  “Ang alam ng MPD, ang alam namin, these are mere violations pertaining to firearms and explosives, Ngayon lang namin nalaman kasi nag rally ang Gabriella sa harap ng MPD. Sinasabi na nila na ito ay secretary ng ganito, ng ganun,” Sinas said.
“So, again, we tasked our Intel Unit to coordinate with our allied units to check kung ano ba talaga yung background nila. Sa ngayon, wala pa kaming complete details kung sila ba talaga yan o registered member ba sila, or what. Ang ginawa lang ng MPD, is to implement the approved search warrants,” the Metro Manila police chief said.
Recovered during the raid were one caliber .45 Colt Mark IV Series 70 semi-automatic pistol with serial no. 129435;  one Armscor cal. .45 pistol with defaced serial numbers; two cal. .45 magazines with 13 live ammunition; two hand grenades; several mobile phones; one Apple Macbook laptop computer; two Seagate external memory drives; 13 USB drives; five assorted identification cards;  P7,920 in various denominations; three revolutionary t-shirts;  four boxes containing scores of revolutionary books and assorted subversive documents.
