
# Mystery Jets announce details of rescheduled UK tour

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:47:43+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/news/music/mystery-jets-announce-details-of-rescheduled-uk-tour-2565537)


        "We promised we'd be back."
      
Mystery Jets have announced the rescheduled dates for their UK tour, after health issues forced the band to delay the shows and the release of their latest album.
The London band announced in September that they would be postponing the dates after frontman Blaine Harrison underwent surgery to treat an infection.
Now, it’s been confirmed that they’ll hit the road once more in April 2020. All original tickets remain valid. Check out the new dates in full below.
10 – Manchester, Academy 211 – Kendall, Brewery Arts Centre13 – Leeds, Wardrobe14 – Glasgow, Oran Mor16 – Edinburgh, Caves17 – Newcastle, Riverside19 – Hull, Welly Club20 – Leicester, O2 Academy 222 – London, O2 Shepherds Bush Empire24 – Bristol, Trinity25 – Birmingham, Mill27 – Oxford, O2 Academy28 – Norwich, Waterfront29 – Brighton, Concorde 2
The band will also release new album ‘A Billion Heartbeats’ in January 2020, after pushing the release back from September 2019.
Harrison, who lives with Spinal Bifida, previously explained how the infection forced him to undergo emergency surgery.
“It is with a lump in my throat that I bring you the following news from my bed at Chelsea and Westminster hospital, a place that has become something of a home for me over the years,” he said in September.
