
# Sadiq Khan calls for General Election to put an end to toxic language in politics

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mikey Smith, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mikey-smith/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/sadiq-khan-calls-general-election-20812439)

London Mayor Sadiq Khan has called for the General Election to be seen as an opportunity to stop British politics' descent into division and toxicity.
In a speech this morning he's expected to declare British values a core issue in the election.
He'll say: "Depressingly, more and more politicians – even at the top this Government – have been following in the footsteps of Trump and Farage by exploiting the politics of fear and blame, trying to pit their own citizens against one another, regardless of the impact on our communities.
"Britain and London deserve so much better than this.
"That’s why I want this General Election to be seen as an opportunity for us to take a different path and to put an end to the descent into the politics of division and the use of toxic language, such as betrayal, treachery and surrender."
 
Speaking at the Centre for London's Annual London Conference, the London Mayor will say warn Boris Johnson's immigration plans will "not only do huge damage to our economy, but to the very fabric of our communities."
And he's expected to declare this election a battleground for the kind of economic system the public want Britain to have.
"Do we want to be a European-style social democracy?" he will ask.
"Or do we want to take a different path?  Where we have reduced employment rights, lower public spending, weaker environmental protections and a greater role for private companies in our NHS.  Essentially - a smaller state, with lower taxes and fewer regulations, that is - for all intents and purposes - a tax haven off the coast of Europe."
He'll add: "Our vision for the future must be so much more than styling London as some kind of Singapore-on-the-Thames. We need a national government that wants to create a strong, mixed economy, where the proceeds of growth are shared more evenly. 
"And a government that understands that proper investment in our public services is not just the right thing to do, but key to creating a fairer, more equal and safer place for us all in the long-term."
