
# The November 2019 security patch improves the Pixel 4's 90Hz display

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:35:21+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/pixel-4-gets-camera-and-smooth-display-improvements-november-2019-security-patch?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Joe Maring / Android Central
      
It's a new month, and in the Android world, that means a new security patch. On November 4, 2019, Google began rolling out its November 2019 patch to the Pixel 2, 3, 3a, and 4 series of devices.
You'll find the usual assortment of bug fixes and security patches in this month's update, but what really stands out this time around are the Pixel 4-specific features.
Taking a look at the Pixel Update Bulletin, Google calls out two functional updates that have piqued our interest — improvements to the camera and 90Hz Smooth Display.
There's not much to go on here, with Google simply noting that the update includes "Smooth Display improvements" and "Camera quality improvements." There's been some criticism regarding Google's decision to limit the Pixel 4's Smooth Display from not operating when the screen brightness is below 75%, so we're interested to see if that's being addressed in this patch or not. Some reports are coming out to indicate that the 90Hz feature now stays engaged as long as the Pixel 4's screen brightness stays above 45%, but I can't yet confirm this on my end.
As for Google's other devices, the November 2019 patch also brings better Google Assistant hot word detection to the Pixel 2 and 3 lineups, improved speaker quality for the Pixel 3, and better mapping for the Xbox controller for the Pixel 2, 3, 3a, and 4.

        Android Security Bulletin: Everything you need to know!
      
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Facebook New Face Facebook's new corporate logo is as boring as they come Facebook has announced a new corporate logo design, as well as a corporate initiative to include the new logo on all of its major app and service properties.
      

        TikTok Ring Ring The company that owns TikTok created a smartphone for China ByteDance, the company that owns the social network service TikTok, has released a smartphone for the Chinese market with a TikTok lock screen feature.
      

        Speaker optional Nest Wifi now available, here are your buying options Google’s second-generation wireless home router goes by a new name, Nest Wifi, and its range extender now features a built-in Google Assistant speaker. The single and two-pack options are now available, but which is best for you?
      

        It's easy to see why these Pixel 4 XL cases are 'clear' winners The Pixel 4 XL is a big, beautiful phone. Keep it protected without covering its design with these stellar clear cases.
      
