
# Humiliation by Paulina Flores review – millennial lives, killer twists

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:59:20+00:00**

Author: **Holly Williams**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2019/nov/04/humiliation-by-paulina-flores-short-stories-chile-review)


        Sharp insights and dry humour mark the debut of this accomplished young Chilean writer
      
If reading can feel like a hand reaching out and taking yours (as Alan Bennett memorably put it), it’s still rare to encounter a debut with a grip this sure. Young Chilean writer Paulina Flores leads you with such cool confidence through her nine stories that I can’t wait to follow wherever she goes next.
First published in Chile in 2015 – after she won the Roberto Bolaño prize for the title story, Qué Vergüenza – this collection, translated by Megan McDowell, has earned her much praise. It feels particularly timely with the current protests led by young people in Chile over inequality and living standards. Flores rarely focuses explicitly on economic injustice, but her backdrop is often poverty and unemployment, notably the latter’s impact on men and masculinity. Her millennial characters, meanwhile, seem to share a sense of “generalised failure”, a thwarted ambition to do better than their parents.
A number of stories are written from the perspective of children, and are so saturated with misunderstandings and swollen emotions that they really do transport you backwards. Flores perfectly captures how silly things and life-changingly serious ones can acquire the same weight for a child trying to make sense of a grown-up world.
Humiliation is the first of several stories featuring an unemployed father; here the man’s daughter sees an advertisement for a modelling opportunity that they both misinterpret. In many of the tales Flores allows us to engage with the adult emotions sloshing around – shame, lust, disappointment, guilt – while viewing them through a confused, anxious child’s eyes. She is especially acute on how adults and children alike try to save face, to avoid the shame of others seeing our mistakes.
But while her characters often flounder amid unspoken subtext, Flores exposes the complex workings of even the most off-hand human interactions. “The truth is that meaning is never as simple as it seems,” one character observes.
There’s a masterly steadiness to her writing: no flash or dash, but neat psychological insight and understated, sometimes drily funny storytelling. There are also some killer twists. For all that she eschews high drama, I still physically winced a couple of times.
The most mysterious story is Teresa. At a library, a young woman (a compulsive liar) helps reunite a lost little girl and the man looking after her, and ends up going back to his house for sex. The storytelling feels as off-kilter as their encounter – but Flores writes convincingly about sex (a rare feat), allowing both roughness and tenderness.
There’s more such tension in her final story, Lucky Me, a slow-spooled double narrative about a lonely young woman watching a couple having sex via a mirror, and a girl whose best friend’s mother becomes the family maid. Flores’s stories work just as they are, but the way she sustains this one over nearly 70 pages made me hope there’s a full-length novel on the way.
• Humiliation by Paulina Flores, translated by Megan McDowell, is published by Oneworld (£12.99). To order a copy go to guardianbookshop.com or call 020-3176 3837. Free UK p&p over £15, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
