
# George R.R. Martin Weighs In on Game of Thrones Prequel House of the Dragon

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kimberly Potts**

Original: [Rotten Tomatoes](https://editorial.rottentomatoes.com/article/george-r-r-martin-weighs-in-on-game-of-thrones-prequel-house-of-the-dragon/)

The father of dragon tales takes to his blog to explain what happened to that first prequel and react to news of the second, which was ordered directly to series. The Witcher and more new trailers, castings, and development news.
TOP STORY
That Game of Thrones prequel series that was to star Naomi Watts and Miranda Richardson, that was to be set thousands of years before the original series, that shot a full pilot episode in Ireland earlier this year?
Yeah, no, HBO cancelled that this week, confirming it would not move forward with the highly-anticipated series on Tuesday.
But before the day had ended, the cable network offered news about that other prequel to fans: HBO has given a 10-episode order to House of the Dragon, a story that will revolve around House Targaryen and be set 300 years before the events of Game of Thrones.
Author George R.R. Martin co-created House of the Dragon with Colony co-creator and showrunner Ryan Condal, and the series will be based on the events in Martin’s Targaryen “history” novel Fire & Blood, as well as short stories in the Dangerous Women and Rogues anthologies. Emmy-winning GoT director and producer Miguel Sapochnik will direct the pilot and additional episodes, Condal will write the series, and the two will team up as showrunners.
But in a blog post, Martin denied that House of the Dragon is the reason Kick-Ass and Kingsman writer Jane Goldman’s GoT prequel, which was focused on the Stark family and the White Walkers and that the author unofficially called The Long Night, is deader than the attendees of the Red Wedding.
“It goes with saying that I was saddened to hear the show would not be going to series,” Martin wrote about the Goldman–Watts spin-off. “I do not know why HBO decided not to go to series on this one, but I do not think it had to do with House of the Dragon.
“This was never an either/or situation. If television has room enough for multiple CSIs and Chicago shows … well, Westeros and Essos are a lot bigger, with thousands of years of history and enough tales and legends and characters for a dozen shows. Heartbreaking as it is to work for years on a pilot, to pour your blood and sweat and tears into it, and have it come to nought, it’s not at all uncommon. I’ve been there myself, more than once. I know Jane and her team are feeling the disappointment just now, and they have all my sympathy … with my thanks for all their hard work, and my good wishes for whatever they do next.”
Martin also confirmed that House of the Dragon has been in development for years, that he first talked to HBO about it in 2016.
As for specifics on the new series: “Well, I can’t actually spill those beans,” Martin wrote, “but you might want to pick up a copy of two anthologies I did with Gardner Dozois, Dangerous Women and Rogues, and then move on to Archmaester Gyldayn’s history, Fire & Blood.”
Archmaester Gyldayn is the fictional author of the Targaryen history book.

        READ MORE: House of the Dragon and More Upcoming TV Fantasy Series That Could Be the Next Game of Thrones
      
Disney+ has ordered 10 episodes of the new dramedy Big Shots, which will star John Stamos (You) as a college basketball coach with anger issues. His most immediate issue: getting fired from his college gig and becoming a teacher and basketball coach at an elite all-girls private school. David E. Kelley (Big Little Lies) will write and serve as an executive producer on the series, which sparked from an idea pitched to Kelley by comedian and Single Parents star Brad Garrett. Garrett will also be an executive producer on the series, which begins filming in Los Angeles in November.
