
# What Are the Biggest Challenges Technology Must Overcome in the Next 10 Years?

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Kolitz**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/what-are-the-biggest-challenges-technology-must-overcome-in-the-next-10-years/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+uk%2Fgizmodo+%28Gizmodo+UK%29&hl=en)

Technology’s fine – I definitely like texting, and some of the shows on Netflix are tolerable – but the field’s got some serious kinks to work out. Some of these are hardware-related: when, for instance, will quantum computing become practical? Others are of more immediate concern. Is there some way to stop latently homicidal weirdos from getting radicalised online? Can social networks be tweaked in such a way as to not nearly guarantee the outbreak of the second Civil War? As AI advances and proliferates, how can we stop it from perpetuating, or worsening, injustice and discrimination?
For this Giz Asks, we’ve assembled a wide-ranging panel – of futurists, engineers, anthropologists, and experts in privacy and AI – to address these and many other hurdles.

        Anthropologist and Research Director at the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Institut Jean Nicod, Paris; Co-Founder of the Centre for the Resolution of Intractable Conflict, University of Oxford, and author of 
        Talking to the Enemy: Faith, Brotherhood and the (Un)Making of Terrorists
      

        Professor, Mechanical Engineering, MIT, whose research focuses on quantum information and control theory
      
Quantitative futurist, Founder of the Future Today Institute, Professor of Strategic Foresight at New York University Stern School of Business, and the author, most recently, of The Big Nine: How the Tech Titans and Their Thinking Could Warp Humanity

        University Distinguished Professor, Chicago-Kent College of Law, Illinois Institute of Technology, whose work focuses on the impact of technologies on individuals, relationships, communities, and social institutions
      

        Featured image: Illustration: Benjamin Currie (Gizmodo)
      
