
# Rodrygo bags a hat-trick as Real Madrid crush Galatasaray at Bernabeu

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:49:25+00:00**

Author: **Sport EN**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/real-madrid/rodrygo-bags-a-hat-trick-as-real-madrid-crush-galatasaray-7717249)

It was a night to remember for Real Madrid’s Rodrygo Goes as he scored a hat-trick in the Spanish club’s 6-0 thrashing of Galatasaray.
Truth be told, the contest was over within 10 minutes and both goals came from Rodrygo. As Gareth Bale and James Rodriguez’s absences continue to make the headlines, the Brazilian teenager has stepped in without fear and delivered over and over again.
The Turkish side showed their defensive vulnerabilities in the home match and it didn’t improve at the Santiago Bernabéu. A quickfire double from Rodrygo saw the visitors retreat and look for damage control. That never seemed a smart strategy when you’ve still got 80 minutes to play.
Four minutes later and Madrid had a penalty. Sergio Ramos wasn’t in a charitable mood and instead of handing the Brazilian a chance to score the fastest hat-trick in Champions League history, he produced his patented Panenka finish to make it 3-0. Will a goalkeeper ever just stand his ground?
Galatasaray kept Madrid at bay for the remainder of the half but Karim Benzema was there to spoil any good feeling amongst the visitors as he grabbed a fourth on the stroke on half-time. By this point, it was merely a question of how many Madrid would get.
Benzema had to wait until the 81st minute before he grabbed his second to make it 5-0 on the night. But Madrid weren’t done yet. As the clock moved into injury time, Benzema turned provider and played a nice one-two with Rodrygo and the Brazilian finally got his hat-trick and completed a night he won’t ever forget.

        Champions League
      
Courtois, Carvajal, Varane, Sergio Ramos, Marcelo (Mendy, 42'), Kroos, Casemiro (Modric, 60'), Fede Valverde, Rodrygo, Benzema y Hazard (Isco, 68').
Muslera, Mariano Ferreira, Luyindama, Marcao, Nagatomo (Buyuk, 88'), Seri, Nzonzi (Bayram, 46'), Lemina, Feghouli, Andone (Donk, 46') y Babel.
1-0, Rodrygo (4'); 2-0, Rodrygo (7'); 3-0, Sergio Ramos, de penalti (13'); 4-0, Benzema (45'); 5-0, Benzema (81'); 6-0, Rodrygo (92').
Felix Zwayer (Alemania). Amomestó a Nzonzi (13'), Fede Valverde (42') y Babel (57').
Partido de la cuarta jornada de la fase de grupos de la Champions League disputado en el estadio Santiago Bernabéu en presencia de 67.000 espectadores.
