
# 'Problems' - What Aston Villa really think of VAR after Liverpool debacle

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-var-liverpool-firmino-17128478)

Video Assistant Referee (VAR) drama blighted Aston Villa's 2-1 defeat to Liverpool on Saturday.
Mahmoud Trezeguet's volleyed opener after 21 minutes seemed in doubt for an age as VAR referee Martin Atkinson decided whether or not to disallow the goal.
In the end he deemed the strike fine with the Egyptian netting his maiden Villa goal to set Dean Smith's side on the way to victory.
However, Liverpool thought they'd got back in front four minutes later through Roberto Firmino - but the Brazilian was deemed offside by his armpit.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
The Reds did turn the match around, though, through late goals from Andy Robertson and Sadio Mane, sending Villa into the clash with West Midlands rivals Wolverhampton Wanderers on Saturday on the back of two consecutive defeats.
Liverpool's visit was the latest of Villa's Premier League matches blighted by VAR after their return to the top flight after three years in the Championship.
Matches with Burnley, Brighton and Hove Albion and Arsenal have all seen the intervention - for worse in Villa's cases - of technology.
So who connected with Villa has said what about VAR?

        We've put together what's been said by the manager, fans and players alike about the much-maligned technology.
      
Smith said he wants to see the power back in the hands of the referee and his officials on the pitch.
"I feel they're taking a little bit of authority away from the referee and I want the referee to have that authority,' he said after the Liverpool match.
"If he thinks it's a goal and VAR are telling them there's something other than a factual reason, I'd like him to go over and have a look himself.
"I made my points known and we'll have another meeting this week. We all voiced our concerns about it and what we think can improve.
"You can't scrap it now, there's 28 countries using it. We all wanted it to find the right decisions but there was always going to be teething problems and we've found them."
 
Villa fans haven't been shy in criticising the implementation of technology and how it is being used.
Despite VAR awarding Villa the goal against Liverpool, some fans thought the technology took too long to make the decision and cheekily pointed out that it was looking at ways to disallow Trezeguet's strike.
There was also clear audible frustration when John McGinn's opener against Burnley was chalked off in September.
As the decision was confirmed, the claret and blue faithful voiced their discontent at VAR, with the Holte End chanting, “F*** VAR” and “VAR is f****** s***”.
Those chants returned against Brighton and social media has also been awash with criticism.
Former Sky Sports pundit Andy Gray blasted the decision to disallow Firmino's goal.
“To my naked eye, that knee (of Villa defender Tyrone Mings) is playing all of him onside," said Gray, when viewing the clip on beIN Sports. "I can see that.
"When they first calibrate it, and they do it and 'oh, wait a minute, he's still onside, let's do it again'. They do it again, and lo and behold, it comes up that he's offside in the second calibration and suddenly he's offside.
"That should have been a goal, end of. My naked eye can see that knee is playing every part of Roberto Firmino onside and I don't need calibration to tell me otherwise."
 
Hourihane was at the heart of VAR drama in the Brighton clash back in October.
Brighton opened the scoring through Adam Webster from a free-kick conceded by Hourihane himself, for a challenge on Martin Montoya that appeared to be fine.
“If my challenge is good, why can’t you go back and check that?" The Republic of Ireland international fumed.
“We conceded a goal from the free-kick, which is massive. I am not sure how the whole thing works really.
“If you can chalk off a goal for a foul, surely you can chalk off a goal because of a poor decision by the ref? I am not really sure where it is all going.
“To have all that emotion and then see it disallowed, it is deflating. Listen, we have to get used to it because it is not going anywhere, or maybe there will be some sort of change, I don’t know?”
