
# Sleep Cycles: It’s 4 A.M. Why Am I Still Awake?

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:41:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/07/opinion/letters/sleep.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)


        To the Editor:
      
Re “Not Your Average Insomniac,” by Vanessa Barbara (Op-Ed, Oct. 29):
Like Ms. Barbara, I suffer from a severe case of my circadian rhythm badly misaligned with the norm.
I’m 60 years old and have struggled with this all my life. Sleep specialists and a neurologist were unable to help. Nothing works, including meds.
I’m now retired and can finally follow my body’s natural clock. It was refreshing and encouraging to see that someone recognizes this condition and that I’m not the only person in the Western Hemisphere still awake at 5 a.m.!
Ellen PartnoyWells, British Columbia

        To the Editor:
      
How heartening to know that someone else has an identical sleep pattern!
I fall into my first deep sleep when most New Yorkers are heading for the morning rush, and I rise in time for their evening commute. My friends say I never left Singapore time.
Very convenient for phone calls to Europe and Asia, and jet lag is never an issue when traveling abroad. I wouldn’t have it any other way!
Margaret Leng TanBrooklynThe writer is a professional toy pianist.

        To the Editor:
      
I write this letter after midnight, and the night is still young. For people like us, the steady lengthening of daylight saving time only worsens the problem. With the world split 50-50 between larks and night owls, why is only one sleep schedule considered the valid one?
Why not have a productive work and school period that is midway between the two? The larks can run their errands and mow their lawns before work, and the night owls can come home and still have many productive hours left before getting a good night’s sleep.
Every week, there is another round of articles about sleep problems being epidemic in this country. Instead of driving us all to an early grave, can’t we try common sense instead?
Deborah MoranHouston

        To the Editor:
      
I read with interest and sympathy Vanessa Barbara’s account of having delayed sleep phase syndrome. I’m a more typical night owl, preferring a sleep cycle of, say, 3 a.m. to 10 a.m.
When acquaintances subtly suggest that their normal sleep cycles of 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. are superior, I offer my theory: Someone had to guard the cave at night.
Jessica LauriaShort Hills, N.J.

        Continue reading the main story
      
