
# Where To Go Truffle Hunting This Fall and Winter

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lauren Jade Hill**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/laurenjadehill/2019/11/03/where-to-go-truffle-hunting-this-fall-and-winter/)

With truffle season beginning in the fall and running through to the end of the year, now is the time to hunt for this delicacy. Stay in these luxury hotels across Croatia, Italy and France to join in on the seasonal tradition.

        Provence
      
Château de Montcaud lies within the windswept vineyards of Languedoc-Roussillon with 12 acres of its own land surrounding the 19th-century property. Food and wine is unsurprisingly a highlight of any stay, with vineyards to visit nearby, a collection of local wines and a bistro and fine dining restaurant with a chef’s kitchen for chef’s table dinners and cooking classes. This fall, the French chateau is inviting guests to embrace the season on a Truffle Weekend Package, which is running exclusively from the 14th to 17th November. Expect a weekend of truffle hunting with family-owned Le Truffe du Ventoux, wine tasting at local vineyard and winery La Rémejeanne and dining on carefully curated menus featuring French black winter truffles. The weekend will come to a close with a day spent taking part in a truffle cooking class, followed by a visit to nearby olive oil producer Moulin à Huile Thomassot and an evening meal at Le Cèdre de Montcaud.

        Tuscany
      
All a part of the Italian Hospitality Collection, Fonteverde, Bagni di Pisa and Grotta Giusti are coming together this winter to give guests the chance to hunt for white truffles in the Tuscan countryside. Each of these three hotels is situated within an area known for this gastronomic tradition. Fonteverde lies close to San Giovanni d’Asso while Bagni di Pisa and Grotta Giusti provide easy access to San Miniato. By staying in these properties September through December you’ll be able to forage for this delicacy with an expert truffle hunter and his well-trained dog while gaining insight into the reserves these truffles grow in and how the authorised truffle hunters collect them. If you’re here on the 9th to 10th or 16th to 17th November, you’ll be able to follow this foraging experience with a visit to the White Truffle Festival in San Giovanni d’Asso and San Miniato. See prize truffles exhibited, meet the professionals and buy some to take home.

        Piedmont
      
Piedmont is among Italy’s best-known truffle regions with Alba even being referred to as the white truffle capital of the world. The Relais & Chateaux property Relais San Maurizio is among the hotels drawing on this famous local ingredient. The 17th-century hilltop monastery turned luxury hotel lies close to Alba, within the white truffle and wine producing landscape of Langhe. Here you can search for truffles in the local forest, try the Langhe region’s cheese and wine and take a cooking class. The hotel’s Michelin-starred restaurant Guido da Costigliole, which is situated in the monastery’s ancient cellar, is where you’ll dine on the dishes of chef Luca Zecchin starring the finest local ingredients and paired with wines sourced from Piedmont, Italy and beyond.

        Istria
      
The largest peninsula in the Adriatic Sea, Istria crosses between Croatia, Slovenia and Italy. The fertile landscape here makes Istria a major draw for gastronomy with the ideal soil for truffles in the forests of Motovun and Buzet. Stay at Roxanich Wine & Heritage Hotel on the Croatian peninsula to hunt for the region’s treasured white truffles with the family-owned truffle company, Karlić Tartufi. Throughout fall and into December, these guided truffle hunting experiences come with truffle and wine tasting sessions and lessons in how to cook with the delicacy before a home cooked meal with local wines. The region’s truffles are showcased each weekend of the season at the 10-week event, Zigante Truffle Days, in Livade. Here you’ll sample truffle-infused products, olive oils and local wines, as well as taking part in forest truffle hunts and culinary workshops.
