
# Gift Guide 2019: The Best Family Presents Under $200

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Vivienne Decker**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/viviennedecker/2019/11/03/gift-guide-2019-the-best-family-presents-under-200/)

Holiday shopping for a family can be an overwhelming prospect, but I have come up with a list of items that every family is sure to enjoy. From DNA testing, to cornhole-playing, to super-size Jenga-building, these gifts under $200 are sure to be enjoyed in special family moments to come.
What cooler gift for a family than an understanding about what their DNA says about their ancestry, traits and health. The 23andMe Health + Ancestry Service shares details about health predispositions ranging from Type 2 Diabetes and Late-Onset Alzheimer’s Disease, as well as ancestry, finding out exactly where a person’s DNA comes from more than 1,500 regions. The service also shares information about how your DNA can influence your taste, smell and facial features, which could make for some fun family entertainment. Or fistfights.

        SHOP NOW
      
There are no family squabbles that a round of good old-fashioned Cornhole can’t solve. The classic game is fun for all ages, whether it’s 3-year-olds, 30-year-olds who have had a few drinks, or those old enough to not start reading any long novels.

        SHOP NOW
      
This Classic Nintendo Entertainment System will make anyone nostalgic for Super Mario Bros. in the best way. Now you can buy this system preloaded with 30 of your favorite games from Pac-Man to Donkey Kong and The Legend of Zelda and relive the thrills.

        SHOP NOW
      
Who doesn’t want to play budding ice-cream entrepreneur and make their very own special blend of organic-peppermint-fair-trade-chocolate-swirl ice cream? This Cuisinart Electric Ice Cream Maker makes up to 2 quarts of ice cream, gelato or sorbet in just 20 minutes.

        SHOP NOW
      
Turn any room or backyard into an epic movie theater or family photo viewing party. Connect it to your phone and start the epic slide show or video series. Toothpicks [to keep eyes propped open during epic slide show] not included.

        SHOP NOW
      
What holiday gift list would be complete without an incredible set of matching family pajamas? Made with 100% organic cotton, Burt’s Bees Baby Family Jammies are the best out there.

        SHOP NOW
      
There are few more thrilling things to buy a family than a super-size Jenga Giant set. This 5-foot-tall set is sure to entertain, just be sure little ones move out of the way before the tower falls.

        SHOP NOW
      
This 100% alpaca throw from Parachute is the perfect addition to any home. A cozy blanket is always a welcome gift for any family, and encourages comfy couch lounging.

        SHOP NOW
      
Whether Taco Night is a weekly occurrence or saved for Cinco de Mayo (we vote weekly), who wouldn’t want a special serving set for the occasion? It’s perfect for the family who has everything, and a welcome addition to any kitchen.

        SHOP NOW
      
The ultimate Millennial game, Cards Against Humanity may not be suitable for little ones, but it would certainly be fit for some cross-generational giggles for all who have at least reached puberty.

        SHOP NOW
      
