
# Letters to the Editor, Nov. 7, 2019: For Wascana Pool, rectangular design is just fine

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:00:10+00:00**

Author: **Letters to Regina Leader-Post**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/opinion/letters/letters-to-the-editor-nov-7-2019-for-wascana-pool-rectangular-design-is-just-fine)

The top priorities for the new Wascana Pool identified in the city-wide online survey are: ”Swimming for leisure and recreation is the highest priority aquatic activity (33%), while swimming for personal fitness is the second priority (18%)”.
The Request for Proposals states: “One schematic plan shall be a simple basin design similar to the existing pool for comparison to the destination aquatic facility at the Wascana Pool Site”.
The three designs (actually, one option with three variations) do not offer a replacement 50-metre Wascana Pool. Darryl Condon, the pool consultant from HCMA Architecture + Design, told aquatic stakeholders on August 7 that rectangular pools are boring.
A rectangular design is classic, ageless, elegant, highly functional, and cost-effective to build and maintain.
It appears that the City and P3A architects have totally disregarded the input from the community and various stakeholders, and are ignoring the current use pattern of Wascana Pool for 50-yard lane swimming.
Wascana Pool is our only outdoor pool out of five where professional athletes and recreational swimmers can swim, and where children can play creatively.
Careful consideration must be given to ensuring that the project is a cost-effective investment, and without losing focus of the basic requirement. Namely: a swimming pool that meets the need for fitness, training and recreation. Namely: a 50-metre x 25-metre pool, and a second warmer pool, replacing the former paddling pool (which was located behind the main pool, closer to Wascana Lake, many years ago).

        Elaine Costescu, Regina
      
 
Having swum laps at Wascana Pool for more than 30 years, I noticed a big upswing in usage when the lanes were switched from 25 to 50 yards several years ago.
It seems to me the ability to swim ‘long course’ was a big drawing card. For most, the longer distance appears to be a much more enjoyable lap-swimming experience relative to a 25 yard or metre pool.
Pool times were expanded for long-course lap swimming from 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., which was very well-utilized. After 1:00 the lap section was switched to widths for the remainder of the day. This freed up most of the pool for use by non-lap recreational swimmers of all types, and I believe provided the best of both worlds.
With respect to a more waterpark-type design, I’m concerned with the feasibility of maintaining large slides, zip lines, climbing walls etc. in an outdoor pool over our long, harsh winters. I think these features are much better suited to an indoor environment where they can be enjoyed year-round, making the most of the investment.
I firmly believe that a properly designed 50-metre pool can be well-used and enjoyed by both lap, recreational and family swimmers with the simple switching over of some lane markers.
With the current designs, I’m concerned we’re going to end up with a facility that won’t adequately satisfy either lap or recreational swimmers.

        Bill Bearman, Regina
      
 
