
# 50 years of Amitabh Bachchan: 'Chehre' producer says he is amazed to see Big B still excited about work

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:31:03+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/50-years-of-amitabh-bachchan-chehre-producer-says-he-is-amazed-to-see-big-b-still-excited-about-work/articleshow/71948568.cms)

Amitabh Bachchan is one of the most senior members of the Hindi film industry who is still very active on his work front. With some very interesting projects up his sleeves, Mr Bachchan can easily give young actors a run for their money. The actor, who began his career with 1969 film, ‘Saath Hindustani’ which was released 50 years ago on this day, November 7. There has been no looking back for the megastar ever since. He is still on a roll in his career.
Producer Anand Pandit of his upcoming film, ‘Chehre’ recently opened up about his experience of working with Big B. According to the producer, Amitabh Bachchan is a legend and an inspiration for all. He also added that his love for cinema and zeal to learn makes him the unique actor that he is. He has completed 50 years in Bollywood and still setting benchmarks. He confessed that he is indeed honoured to be working with him in his 50th year.
Pandit also reportedly said that it is amazing to know and work with a person who is excited about working every single day. According to the producer, Bachchan finds ways to be happy in whatever he does.
In ‘Chehre’, Amitabh will be sharing screen space with Emraan Hasmi for the first time. The megastar is expected to sport a new look in the film.
Apart from that, he will also be seen in ‘Gulabo Sitabo’ where he will be sharing screen space with Ayushmann Khurrana and Kriti Kharbanda. Big B is also part of Marathi director Nagraj Manjule’s upcoming Bollywood film, ‘Jhund’ and Ayan Mukerji’s ‘Brahmastra’ staring Ranbir Kapoor and Alia Bhatt in the lead.
