
# Tutankhamun's 'curse' brings death and destruction - and it's here in the UK

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:14:58+00:00**

Author: **Jane Lavender, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/tutankhamuns-curse-brings-death-destruction-20764454)

The boy king Tutankhamun lay mummified for more than 3,000 years under the shifting sands of the Egyptian desert.
But then, in 1923, archeaologist Howard Carter lifted the lid of the 19-year-old Pharoah's sarcophagus for the first time in three millenia.
It was a hugely significant moment but ever since Tutankhamun's mummy was found, rumours of a curse have followed in his wake.
Ruin, the death of the owner of Downton Abbey - struck down by a mosquito bite - suicide and even murder, all can be traced back to the fateful day Carter opened the grave.
And now Tutankhamun's burial treasures are in the UK, on display on the Saatchi Gallery in London from today.
 
Of the original party of 58 who discovered the tomb and opened the sarcophagus, eight died almost straight afterwards.
Sherlock Homes creater, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, blamed their deaths on 'elementals', which he says were created by the Pharoah's priests to guard his final resting place.
The first time the 'curse' struck was in the minutes after Carter opened the tomb.
The archeaologist is said to have sent a messanger on an errand to his home.
But whenthe boy was close to his destination he is said to have heard a "faint, almost human cry".
 
As he reached the front door he saw a cobra snake inside a bird cage with a pet canary in its mouth.
It is said Carter's home had been broken into by the Royal Cobra, a symbol worn by the Pharoah on his head to strike down his enemies.
This ws followed just weeks later by the strange and mysterious death of the man who had funded the expedition to open Tutankhamun's tomb, Lord Carnarvon.
He lived in Highclere castle, the real life location of Downton Abbey, and four months and seven days after the sarcophagus was opened he was found dead.
Lord Carnarvon had been bitten by a mosquito while he was in Egypt and he aggravated the bite while he was shaving.
 
It became infected and he passed away.
The following month, US railway executive George Jay Gould I visited Tutankhamun's tomb - and paid with his life.
He developed a fever and succumbed to his illness while on the French Riviera.
The deaths didn't end there.
Prince Ali Kamel of Egypt visited the tomb on arguably his country's most famous ruler in July.
 
Shortly after he was pictured on his visit, he was shot dead by his wife.
If the Carnarvon family thought the 'curse' had died along with the man who had funded the evacuation, they were very wrong.
The Lord's brother, Colonel The Hon Aubrey Herbert MP suddenly went almost blind.
In September, 1923, he underwent a dental procedure that medics thought would restore his sight.
Instead, he developed blood poisoning and died.
 
Just a year later, the radiologist who had X-rayed Tutankhamun's mummy after the sarcophagus was opened, Sir Archibald Douglas Reid, died from a mystery illness.
Sir Lee Stack, Governor General of Sudan, had been open of the first people to visit the tomb after it was opened.
But in 1925 he was shot while he drove through Cairo.
The same year, Carter's friend, Sir Bruce Ingham, was given a chilling gift that has been said to have led to his almost ruin.
It was a paperweight made of a mummified gand. On its wrist was a bracelet carved with the words 'cursed be he who moves my body - to him shall come fire, water and pestilence'.
 
Shortly after he accepted the gift, Sir Bruce's home burned down, only to be flooded when he had it rebuilt.
And the 'curse' kept claiming its victims.
In 1928 AC Mace died from arsenic poisoning. He had been part of Carter's excavaction team when the tomb was opened and his accounts of what happened had been widely studied.
The Carnarvon family could not escape the 'curse' of the boy king.
Lord Carnavon's half brother, Mervyn Herbert, passed away in 1929 from malarial pneumonia.
 
Those close to Howard Carter were also not safe when his personal secretary, Richard Bethell, was smothered in his bed the same year.
Just three months later Richard's father, Richard Luttrell Pilkington Bethell,  died when he threw himself from his seventh floor apartment.
This was the room Tutankhamun's burial treasures were being kept in.
He left a note that read, "I really cannot stand any more horrors and hardly see what good I am going to do here, so I am making my exit."
And then there was the death of the man who had first opened the tomb, Howard Carter.
 
He passed away on March 2, 1939, from Hodgkin's Lymphoma.
The epitaph on his grave reads: "May your spirit live, may you spend millions of years, you who love Thebes, sitting with your face to the north wind, your eyes beholding happiness."
Chillingly, this is a quote taken from the Wishing Cup of Tutankhamun.
Despite the rafts of deaths, experts are still unconvinced the 'curse' is real.
A 2002 study, carried out by the British Medical Journal looked at the 44 people said to be with Carter when he opened the tomb.
 
The average age of death for that group was considered normal.
It has even been claimed that Carter himself started the rumour of the 'curse' to keep people away from the tomb.
But will you be brave enough to visit the exhibition when it opens on November 2?
It will contain more than 150 artefacts and is the largest ever collection to travel outside Egypt.
Director of the Saatchi Gallery, Philippa Adams, said: "The discovery of Tutankhamun’s tomb is a timeless story known throughout the world, and this exhibition will present these important historical artefacts in a highly innovative way through immersive displays.
"We are thrilled and honoured to be hosting this culturally significant exhibition."
The collection will be displayed at the Saatchi Gallery on the Kings Road from 2 November,before 'Tutankhamun: Treasures of the Golden Pharaoh', continues on it's world tour.
Individual tickets are not currently on sale but group tickets for groups of 15 or more are available from today. To book group tickets contact Ticketmaster Group Sales at 0844 844 2121.
