
# Bob Iger Says George Lucas is ‘Fine’ With The Mandalorian

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:23:31+00:00**

Author: **Robert Workman**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/471291-bob-iger-says-george-lucas-is-fine-with-the-mandalorian)

Next week, Star Wars fans will be able to check out the new Disney+ series The Mandalorian. But according to Disney CEO Bob Iger, the series has already passed the hardest test: winning George Lucas’ approval.  
“George has been fine,” said Iger during an interview with Bloomberg.
Lucas had voiced disappointment with previous Star Wars films, most notably The Force Awakens. But he may have changed his tune with The Mandalorian. This ties in with a previous report, where he had a chat with showrunner Jon Favreau about it earlier this summer.
“We had a long talk with each other,” Favreau said at the time. “One thing he said to me was, ‘Remember, Jon, the real audience for all stories and all myths is the kids that are coming of age’, because he’s really a Joseph Campbell adherent.”
Iger also touched base on why  The Mandalorian is a show instead of a new movie.
“There didn’t seem like there was that much demand for another standalone Star Wars movie,” said Iger. He pointed out Solo: A Star Wars Story as an example, as it only made $394 million worldwide.
It’s cool,” noted Iger. “It’s the first live-action Star Wars television that’s ever been done.” 
The Mandalorian premieres on Disney+ starting on November 12.
What do you think about Lucas’ approval of the show? Let us know in the comments below.

        Recommended Reading: 
        
          Ultimate Star Wars, New Edition: The Definitive Guide to the Star Wars Universe
        
      

        We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
      
