
# Boy gives teacher 'goosebumps' with sweet surprise gift - but she can't accept

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:46:31+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/boy-gives-teacher-goosebumps-sweet-20834664)

After collecting work from her students, a school teacher from Florida was stunned to find a sweet gift nestled inside one of the folders.
Mary Hall Chambers from Gorrie Elementary School in Tampa discovered nine-year-old Parker Williams had made a very touching gesture.
The youngster had decided that his teacher wasn't being paid enough, so he secretly gifted her $15 of his birthday money to help make up for it.
Alongside the cash, Parker had left a handwritten note, saying: "I don't think teachers get paid enough for what they do so will you except this gift".
 
Chambers, who has been working as a teacher for 16 years, told Yahoo Lifestyle that the act of kindness gave her "goosebumps" and she reacted by giving the boy a hug.
She returned the note and the money to Parker, writing a message of grattitude for him along the bottom.
It said: "I can't accept this, but appreciate the gesture, Parker. Students like you are the reason I teach."
Parker's father, Darrell Williams later discovered the gift in his son's school bag and proudly shared a photo of it on Facebook , where it garnered a lot of attention.
One person replied: "Love this story! Way to go Parker! Such a great role model."
Another commented: "Parker was definitely raised right!"
A third wrote: "My heart just melted."
Someone else said: "That is just beautiful. We love you Parker."
A fifth responded: "Wow! He is a real champion. Truly a class act."
A different user proclaimed that it might be "the best thing" they'd ever seen on Facebook. They added: "You guys are doing something right over there."
Recently another young boy hit the headlines for making his teacher emotional - but in a very different way.
Writing on Facebook, a teacher known only as Brooke, revealed that a student had made her cry at work after he asked a heartbreaking question.
The little boy had asked when "the lady that puts food in his backpack is coming".
He was referring to the guidance counselor, who had been giving him food to take home to feed his family, who were unable to afford to buy more.
The young boy's words exposed the harsh reality that some little ones are facing today.
She explained: "Today I cried at work. Not because I hate my job, or that it is just too hard (it really is).
"Today I cried for a child, a child who so innocently talked about food, and the lack of it.
"I lost it, I cried in front of 20 little people. No kid should ever be hungry, ever."
Brooke sprung into action and sent a message to the teacher group chat. They all chipped in and made up a bag of food for the little one to take home.
The school, which is based in Jacksboro, United States, is now starting a food pantry for its students to ensure they will be able to get food and hygiene products whenever they are needed.

        Do you have an act of kindness you'd like to share? Email yourmirror@mirror.co.uk
      
