
# Photographer hopes to trace Scots family pictured in lost slides discovered in attic

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/photographer-hopes-trace-scots-family-20804061)

A photographer hopes to track down a picture perfect family whose memories, dating back decades, have been discovered in his attic.
When Martin Mcmenemy, 66, bought two second-hand telescopic lenses from a shop near Stirling Castle 40 years ago, he got more than he bargained for.
Alongside the lenses Martin, from Denny, near Falkirk, was handed a box of old slides, all for £5.
All 204 slides sat in his attic gathering dust, until garage owner Martin ­discovered that the slides show fascinating images of the one family.
 
Now Martin is hopeful Record readers can help reunite the family and photos.
He said: “I had a big clear-out with my wife Sylvia.
“I came across the slides and thought I’d put them through my old projector. I couldn’t believe what was on them.”
Glencoe, Mull, Oban, Iona, Duart Castle and Staffa all feature on the snaps.
Names mentioned on the cases are Colonel and Mrs Armstrong, David and Janet Agnew, Inga, Heather and Margaret.
 
While 59 of the slides are Agfacolor glass slides, 145 are Kodachrome.
Martin thinks the shots were taken between 1961 and 1964.
He added: “While some of the people could be long dead, the young ones might be in their 60s. To get all these memories back would be great for them.”
