
# Rick and Morty season 4 release date, episodes, and character news

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Painter**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/news/entertainment/rick-and-morty-3685380/)

Following an agonising wait for fans, Adult Swim officially renewed Rick and Morty back in May 2018, promising not only a fourth series but an incredible 70 episodes, spanning several seasons. Though the animated series has always had a cult following, it was season 3 that catapulted Rick and Morty into the mainstream, and it’s not hard to see why.
Here’s all you need to know about Rick and Morty season 4, from the possible release date to episode information, returning cast members and the latest teasers.
Rick and Morty will be back on screens - in the US at least - from 10 November 2019.
The bad news is that when it comes back it will only be for a scant five episodes. "Half the season you deserve, but all the season we can handle," as the season 4 trailer (below) puts it.
The good news is that Adult Swim renewed Rick and Morty not only for season 4, but for a whopping 70 episodes across several seasons, so there's a lot more to come.
When the show does return to the UK it will have a new home: the show is moving to Channel 4, with the first three seasons available on All4, and season 4 due on the channel when it eventually comes out, with repeats on E4.
Unfortunately, accordingly to Yahoo News this won't be coming until January 2020, so UK fans will still have to hang on to get those new episodes. 
We've had a couple glimpses of footage from the new season so far. The first was a typically odd release date teaser:
