
# 4 Black Women Talk About Harriet And Her Lessons For Today

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Angela Dorn**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/angeladorn/2019/11/05/4-black-women-talk-about-harriet-and-her-lessons-for-today/)

Four 21st Century Black women, a Doctor, a Lawyer, a CFO, and a Media Executive, discuss “Harriet”, the controversial movie about the slave who walked, swam, ran and bore arms to free herself and her people.(WARNING: Contains spoilers!)
Black women have loved Harriet Tubman almost since birth. We were introduced to her as children, when learned about the horrors of slavery, and about its Black heroes like Frederick Douglass and Harriet Tubman, our own Black Moses! We all learned that Harriet used her courage, brilliance, and determination to free herself and hundreds of other slaves.
Today our “Shero” Harriet has a movie! Cynthia Erivo, a beautiful Nigerian British national, plays Harriet. Erivo turned Harriet Tubman into a real person, who experiences both unspeakablele tragedy and great triumph. We understand that Harriet’s heroism stems entirely from her faith in herself and God almighty. (What else could a Black person in 19th century America rely on?).
4 Black women friends of mine and I watched Harriet this weekend and took in her, now Hollywood story. We had a lot of thoughts.

        The Lawyer, Angela D: Together We Win
      
There’s a lot to say about this movie, but I’ll focus on one relationship that reminded me of modern times:  Harriet’s relationship with the bourgeois black woman, Marie, played by Janelle Monae. While I admire and want to be as fearless as Harriet Tubman, I identified with Marie, a free and independent Black woman who risked her economic and physical security to help other black people.
In Harriet and Marie’s first encounter, Marie tells Harriet that she “wanted her to clean up” because she “smelled like a pack animal.” Harriet took offense and rightfully threw shade. Responding with something akin to: “Pardon my stench mademoiselle; we ordinary Blacks get a little funky running for our lives.” This episode reminded me of the tension and the disconnect that sometimes exists,in the U.S., between Black people who are struggling and those who are seemingly better off.
Despite their differences, the ladies had a real relationship. Marie gives Harriet lessons on taking one’s place in society, and she becomes Harriet’s close confidant and champion. They and we re-learn that when it comes to being a Black woman in America, both the formerly enslaved Harriet (the lowest of the low) and the freeborn, bourgeois Marie aren’t that different from each other. They are sisters in the struggle. Neither woman is safe in 19th century U.S. Society, and they need each other to win This is a good lesson for Black women even today.

        The Doctor: Sarah W. : I Saw My Path In Her
      
Immediately after seeing Harriet, I sat down to write about my experience. I am so happy that I was able to support the telling of this amazing story by seeing this film. Even though I already had a cursory knowledge about Harriet Tubman, I was still drawn into the story. I loved learning about the story of an enslaved woman who could no longer stand to have her freedom withheld. She not only made a great escape to the North, but she returned countless times to bring hundreds of other slaves to freedom. I don’t think anyone else did that in U.S. history!
Music is a central part of the movie’s story. This movie soundtrack has lyrics that resonate; it will become a part of my daily playlist.

        
          STAND UP
        
      

        I do what I can when I can while I can for my people
      

        While the clouds roll back and the stars fill the night
      

        That's when I'm gonna stand up
      

        Take my people with me
      

        Together we are going
      

        To a brand new home
      

        Far across the river
      

        Can you hear freedom calling?
      

        Calling me to answer
      

        Gonna keep on keepin' on
      

        I can feel it in my bones
      
“Stand Up” is Harriet’s theme song, and it suits her. Harriet stood up and fought against the status quo. She was about freeing slaves in the now. She refused to sit and wait for war to make Blacks free. “I do what I can when I can while I can for my people.”
I was impressed by Harriet’s patience and perseverance. There were no shortcuts or easy passages in the Underground Railroad. She had to have the patience and tenacity to see things through.
In my own way, I understand her experience. There were no shortcuts for me through medical school or residency. They were a means to an end, freedom and self-sufficiency. My end is not nearly as iconic as Harriet’s, but I am (like her) still a unicorn among the 2% of physicians who are African American and female.  I stand on the shoulders of Harriet and other extraordinary women. The prominent role that music serves in Harriet reminds me that — because of these powerful women, I can.

        The Financial Executive: Andrea M.: Code Switching, Then and Now
      
I first heard of Harriet Tubman as a second grader in the Bronx. I had an African-American teacher who taught Black History. Harriet was described as a woman of fortitude who would take on anyone who threatened the success of her mission. She seemed fearless to me.
While Harriet resonated with me, after her speech on how free Blacks had forgotten the hardships of slavery, I recognized my similarities to Marie. Marie was proud to have benefited from the efforts of her ancestors, and of having been born free. She recognized that respecting customs and class-based mannerisms was necessary to maneuver smoothly in the world. She employed the fashion, mannerisms, and diction of her oppressor to facilitate moving through his world with fluidity, and she thrived from doing so.
What Marie could do was, in modern parlance, “code switch”. Most professional women of color have done this. Whether we’re choosing earrings, dining with colleagues or drafting an email, we are cognizant of the nuances of these things to expedite our progress...or not.
I loved that Harriet and Marie found sisterhood in each other. They seemed to connect most once Harriet showed she could speak up for herself and be her own advocate. Indeed, they recognized strength in each other and were so committed to their mutual cause that Marie would keep secrets that Harriet’s own sister could not.
Harriet also stands as an exemplar of courage — that trait common to many heroes and heroines of not being free of fears, but of taking daring, often dangerous, actions in spite of them. She feared most what would happen to those she left behind in slavery, but she felt compelled to do what she could to free her family and others caught in slavery’s terrible web. She confronted her fears through action. This resonates with me. I’ve learned that there is no better balm for anxiety over what gives me worry than taking some action toward it. Harriet left her family and new husband, lost her sisters, and endured abuse to embark on a dangerous journey that no one thought she’d complete. Many Black folks operating in the modern world have also left home to create a personal and professional life for themselves. We may have experienced slights and subtle (or not-so-subtle) racism. We have also felt the distance between ourselves, family and close friends created by our different experiences.

        The Media Executive: Michelle W.: The Commitments That Freedom Requires
      
I made a point of going to see Harriet opening weekend to help bolster the box office numbers of films featuring black artists—as I am personally invested in keeping the funding of these types of films going. So many of my black female friends had planned to go see the film since the first trailer aired over a year ago. Some saw advance screenings starting on Thursday. Some were inspired, others were disappointed, but most intended to see it again because their first session had been so clouded by their own emotional reactions that they didn’t really remember what actually happened in the film.
Cynthia Erivo’s controversial retweets about “Ghetto American accents” also hovered over my mind as I watched. Was she the right choice? Could she carry an entire film authentically and make me forget? Though she was not helped by a weak script and uninspired directing more often than not Erivo delivered. 
The film also too often revisits the stereotypes of the strong, black woman who emasculates her black male thus contributing to her perpetual singleness. Indeed, Harriet’s husband justifies marrying another “free” woman in her absence by saying “he would have died for her… had she let him.” I’ll simply say here… I am sick of hearing this sh//t, but understand why it’s an easy go to theme.
But watching the Harriet movie as a “free” black woman in America in 2019, I couldn’t help but wonder whether I was doing enough as a “free” person. I am very accomplished. I’ve gone to all the “right” schools (the Brearley School, Harvard College, Columbia Business School), had major accomplishments as a professional producer for major news networks. and now I am a media executive for a Fortune 15 company…but as I watched the film’s depictions of Harriet challenging the white and black Abolitionist Society in Auburn, NY, and indeed the entire slavocracy, I had to ask myself — was I becoming complacent?
Despite its shortcomings, one leaves the film challenged by the concept of what is still required of individuals in defense of humanity. In today’s society where we have a President facing impeachment. but still focused on building walls and “othering” people of different hues, what is the responsibility of we ”free” people?
Overall, the film challenged me as a black woman and as a human being to keep going, to stumble, to fall, to get up, to be alone, to be lonely, to be unreasonable, to be unrelenting, to be accountable in this land of the free…to be free.

        
          Harriet scored $12 million at the box office opening weekend. Hollywood says the film is on its way to being a hit!
        
      
