
# James Milner details weakness he has spotted in Liverpool team

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:27:36+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/james-milner-details-weakness-spotted-20821133)

James Milner has admitted that Liverpool need to improve at defending set-pieces after being pushed close in their Champions League victory over Genk.
The Reds moved closer to securing a place in the last 16 with a third straight victory in Europe, but Jurgen Klopp's side were far from their best during the 2-1 win at Anfield.
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain's classy second-half strike - his third goal in two games against Felice Mazzu's side - proved decisive after Mbwana Samatta's powerful header had cancelled-out Georginio Wijnaldum's opener.
And although Milner said he was happy to take three points from the encounter, he accepted that the Genk equaliser, which came from a corner five minutes before half-time, highlighted an area they can work on.
"I thought we were good at times," Milner told BT Sport after the match. "The boys keep coming out and try to keep that tempo high.
"It could have been a lot more comfortable but they made it difficult. I'm just pleased to get the result.
"Set-pieces are always going to be dangerous. There were six changes tonight so the hardest things to pick up are always going to be shape but it's something we can look at to improve.
"Every game is tough in the Champions League. It's a boring saying but it's true! We need to finish the job now. We are in a good position."
Milner captained the Reds in the absence of Jordan Henderson as part of Klopp's much-changed side, with Roberto Firmino, Sadio Mane and Andrew Robertson among those left out of the starting XI.
The result saw Liverpool replace Napoli at the top of Group E with two games remaining after the Italian side were held to a 1-1 draw at home against Red Bull Salzburg.
And although the Merseyside club continued their strong start to the season, their current defensive form could be a cause for concern after conceding for the eighth successive game in all competitions.
Liverpool's next game will see them host Manchester City in the Premier League on Sunday, with Klopp's side looking to extend their six-point lead at the top of the table.
