
# The 10 Most Offside Players In EPL History

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:25:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/the-10-most-offside-players-in-premier-league-history/666351)

Controversial offside decisions have taken centre stage in recent times, but which players have been caught out the most in the Premier League? Here are the 10 players with the most offside decisions against them in England's top flight!

        Click through the gallery above to see the most offside players in EPL history!
      
Since the Premier League began collecting data on offside decisions, no player has been flagged more times than Togo international Emmanuel Adebayor. The towering striker was caught offside a record 328 times across his spells with Arsenal, Manchester City, Tottenham Hotspur and Crystal Palace.
The 35-year-old, who currently plies his trade with Kayserispor in Turkey, is followed closely by former Spurs teammate Jermain Defoe, who was pulled back by the linesman on no fewer than 314 occasions during his Premier League career.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now 
        
      
Darren Bent and Dimitar Berbatov, both also formerly of the North London club, are third and fourth in the league's all-time rankings with 276 and 238 offside decisions going against them, respectively.
Crystal Palace striker Christian Benteke has been called offside the most among active EPL players, having been flagged 196 times, with Manchester City star Sergio Aguero just seven offside calls behind the Belgian.

        
          Read: The 10 Biggest Wins In EPL History
        
      
Former Manchester United forwards Robin van Persie and Romelu Lukaku also make the top 10, which can be viewed in full by scrolling through the gallery above!
