
# Unai Emery confirms role Mesut Ozil will play against Wolves

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:56:10+00:00**

Author: **Mike Walters, https://www.facebook.com/Mike-Walters-Mirror**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/unai-emery-confirms-role-mesut-20788931)

Mesut Ozil is in line to make only his second Premier League appearance of the season for Arsenal against Wolves .
The German World Cup winner impressed manager Unai Emery in his 65-minute appearance at Liverpool in midweek – his first outing since September 24.
And with skipper Granit Xhaka ruled out, it may have been enough to earn the Gunners' £350,000-a-week enigma a rare start at the Emirates this weekend.
Emery was happy with the impact of his fringe players, including Ozil, at Anfield and said: “For them each match is a challenge to show how they can help us.
“I'm thinking also how they can help us tomorrow (against Wolves).”
Team-mate Sead Kolasinac had earlier admitted Ozil was peeved at being cast into exile, saying: “Mesut is a really driven player, but he is a bit unhappy at the minute.
“He is doing everything he can. He is doing extra sessions to make sure he is at the level he needs to be.”
Ozil's only Premier League apperance this season was on September 13, in a 2-2 draw at Watford , and until Wednesday night's crazy Carabao Cup defeat at Liverpool he had not even featured in six consecutive matchday squads.
But Emery and Ozil had a clear-the-air talk before the Gunners' agonising shoot-out defeat at Anfield, and the Arsenal manager singposted his intention to use the German World Cup winner against Wolves, saying: “Yes, he will feature. We will look at the possibility to use him again.”
The Arsenal manager's hand may have been forced, to an extent, when the Emirates atmosphere was thick with mutiny as the Gunners surrendered a two-goal lead against Crystal Palace last Sunday.
Fans called for Ozil, who maintained inscrutable as he watched from the bench.
