
# Pollard the latest Springbok facing stint on sidelines following World Cup final injury

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:43:42+00:00**

Author: **Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/pollard-the-latest-springbok-facing-injury-stint-on-sidelines-following-world-cup-final-win)

Another Springbok has been left counting the cost of South Africa’s 32-12 World Cup win over England last Saturday in Yokohama.
RugbyPass had reported on Tuesday that Lood de Jager, Sale’s new lock signing, would be unavailable for up to four months due to surgery likely being needed to rectify the shoulder injury that forced him off during the first half against the English.
Now it has emerged that injury will delay another cup winner’s arrival at their new European club. Handre Pollard, the goal-kicking out-half who guided South Africa to glory in Japan, had signed for French club Montpellier for three years.
It was expected that the 25-year-old would make his debut in their Champions Cup meeting with Gloucester on November 24 once the contract kicked into action on November 19.
He is still due to arrive in France on that date but he now won’t be available to play for a while as it has emerged that he fractured his cheekbone in the final versus England.

        (Continue reading below…)
      

        Click here to see the video
      
His need for treatment means he is missing the Springboks’ five-day trophy parade across South Africa.
Pollard confirmed his situation via his Instagram page, posting an image from hospital and writing: “Not quite the trophy tour I had in mind. I would do this a 1,000 times over to hold Bill again.”

        WATCH: Siya Kolisi and Rassie Erasmus talk to the media after South Africa’s arrival home
      

        Click here to see the video
      
