
# EICMA 2019: Husqvarna's Norden concept previews retro-styled ADV motorcycle

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:29:48+00:00**

Author: **Aditya Chatterjee  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/eicma-2019-husqvarnas-norden-concept-previews-retro-styled-adv-motorcycle/)

Swedish two wheeler manufacturer Husqvarna is coming to India next year, to be positioned above KTM and will be sold through the KTM network. Husqvarna is using the EICMA 2019 as a platform to showcase its new range of motorcycles. Among them is the Husqvarna's Norden concept that previews retro-styled ADV motorcycle and is based on the 901 series. This one will use the parallel twin from KTM's platform that will be  Euro 5-compliant.
In line with the retro styling of the Husqvarna motorcycles, this flagship ADV too gets round LED headlamp, LED turn indicators integrated with the fairing. Also a detailed look at the under belly section and one can notice the bash plate that can take care of the stones and other objects while riding on trails. The features list on the Husqvarna's Norden concept includes smartphone connectivity, LED tail lamp and also mounts for panniers and knuckle guards. This will be powered by a parallel twin liquid cooled 900cc motor.
That's the official release by Husqvarna, with the twin-cylinder NORDEN 901 concept breaking cover, the stirring array of models underline Husqvarna Motorcycles' growing commitment to the street sector, while highlighting significant new motorsport activities and the ongoing development of all models in terms of performance, technology and design. Unveiled for the first time, this new twin-cylinder machine is Husqvarna Motorcycles' first ever tourer machine. A dynamic and versatile long-distance concept, the Norden 901 balances practical accessibility and comfort to suit the modern traveller

        Also read,
      

        Live Updates: All the action from EICMA 2019
      
