
# Kristoffer Ajer issues Celtic warning as he calls for Lazio humility

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Craig Swan, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/craig-swan/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/kristoffer-ajer-issues-celtic-warning-20818004)

Kristoffer Ajer insists Celtic must stay humble to be heroes in Rome.
The centre-back is aware his team are going to face a searching examination when they tackle Lazio in the Olympic Stadium.
Celtic stung the Serie A side with a brilliant win at Parkhead in the last round of Group E fixtures but the Norwegian knows that will only have stoked home fires for the return.
The defender believes Celtic must take confidence into the game but also a sense of realism about the challenge if they want to repeat the magnificent win they achieved in Glasgow.
Ajer said: “It was great we managed to beat them at Celtic Park but at the same time you have to be humble. We know we are facing one of the best teams in Europe in their own stadium.
“Italy will provide a great challenge for us. We know that we are going there and Lazio have to win the match. But at the same time we have a really good chance of winning also.
“I have never played in Italy so it’s going to be something new for me. Obviously it is going to be a tough game. Lazio are a very good team.
“We know they are a top, top side and have the ability to hurt you on their day if you are not fully ready for them, so it is down to us to perform as strongly as we can in Rome.”
Ajer is set to come face to face with Serie A’s leading marksman Ciro Immobile, but added: “There are so many attacking players in the Lazio squad. It’s not just him.
“So you know you are going to have to be on top of your game no matter who plays for them.”
Ajer is hoping if the backline can do their jobs well his colleagues at the top end of the pitch can damage Lazio.
Mohamed Elyounoussi is amongst those on flying form with seven goals in his last seven games and Ajer said: “He’s been fantastic, so good for many games recently and you can see his fitness and confidence growing.
 
“It is great to see him do so well. He went for a big price from Basel and he was terrific when he played there.
“He is coming back to that best form now but I think he maybe has even more to show and more to come.
“He loves it at Celtic and it is a fantastic group of players to come into. Everyone works hard for each other and the dressing room at games and at Lennoxtown is fantastic. It’s just a great bunch to be a part of.”
