
# Apple Watch is one step away from 50% market share - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:53:48+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/07/apple-watch-is-one-step-away-from-50-market-share/)

Apple Watch is one step away from 50% market share2.8 (56.67%) 6 votes
Apple has complete dominance in the smartwatch market with its Apple Watch. This is what emerges from the analysis conducted by Strategy Analytics, which sees the company reaching peaks never explored, with 47.9% market share.
Only 2 percentage points are missing and the fateful half market share will be reached. It would mean that for every 2 smartwatches, one is branded Apple. A success that is hard to imagine at the outset.
In general, the data nevertheless offers a healthy picture for the market, with a 42% increase in shipments compared to last year, with Samsung leading the best year-on-year growth (73%).
But there is another big name that seems to have a promising future, and it is Google. The fresh owner of the Fitbit brand. Which has fallen from second to third place in the last year.
Fitbit will continue its business for the moment but will be fully into Google’s activities. Under the banner Made by Google, which includes all devices designed by the Mountain View company.
The experience acquired by Fitbit in the field of activity monitoring but also in the design of smartwatches should be used in Google projects and could accelerate its development. Google Fit, the health platform of the California giant, should also benefit from technologies developed by the manufacturer.
