
# Harry Dunn's family call on police chief to resign over 'sad' tweet

Published at: **2019-11-01T03:17:30+00:00**

Author: **Louie Smith, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/harry-dunns-family-call-police-20785616)

The family of tragic teenager Harry Dunn have called for the chief constable involved to resign.
Nick Adderley, of Northants Police, has been blasted for a tweet he posted following the death of the 19-year-old in an accident with Anne Sacoolas, 42.
Reacting to news the Dunn family was launching legal action in America, Mr Adderley wrote on Twitter : “How sad but how predictable.”
He later deleted it and claimed it was “in reference to the profound sadness and loss of Harry Dunn”.
 
But a family spokesman said: “Mr Adderley displayed a staggering degree of unprofessionalism with this tweet, such that he no longer commands the confidence of the family.
“[The family] feel Mr Adderley should now do the honourable thing and resign.”
Experienced motorcyclist Harry was involved in a road accident with Ms Sacoolas outside RAF Croughton on August 27. Her husband Jonathan works at Croughton, which is being used by the US as an intelligence base.
The mum-of-three initially cooperated with police, but later fled the UK citing diplomatic immunity.
British detectives have travelled to the US to interview Ms Sacoolas. Her account has been passed to the CPS.
Harry’s parents ­Charlotte Charles, 44, and Tim Dunn, 50, are now preparing to launch a judicial review of the Foreign Office’s handling of the case. They also intend to sue Ms Sacoolas and the Trump administration.
