
# '£28m' - This is the whopping transfer message Wolves have been sent

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:45:18+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/wolves-karlan-grant-transfer-huddersfield-17200201)

Wolverhampton Wanderers are being linked with Huddersfield Town hotshot Karlan Grant ahead of the January transfer window.
The 22-year-old striker has already scored nine goals this season, including the winner in Huddersfield’s 1-0 victory over Brentford on Saturday.
According to the Sun, Wolves are keeping close tabs on his performances ahead of a potential approach when the window re-opens.
Grant cost Huddersfield just £2m when he joined from Charlton Athletic at the start of the year, but it is reported the Terriers will hold out for at least £10m should Wolves make their move.
This is your round up of all things Wolves; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Wolves throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WWFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Wolves reporter Alex Dicken on Twitter, and his email address is Alex.Dicken@reachplc.com
 
But fans of the Championship club rate him much more highly than that.
Our colleagues at ExaminerLive asked supporters to value the forward in light of the link with Wolves – and they think he’s worth a whopping £28m.
 
Raul Jimenez is Wolves’ top scorer this season with 11 goals, Diogo Jota has four, and summer arrival Patrick Cutrone has scored twice since arriving at Molineux from AC Milan.
