
# Here is a List of Phones that Uber Kenya and Little Have Banned Their Partners From Using

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:45:16+00:00**

Author: **Kiruti Itimu**

Original: [Techweez](https://techweez.com/2019/11/05/banned-phones-driver-partners-uber-little/)

Uber and Little are ride sharing companies and they rely on a number of technologies for the system to work.
The system relies on having a data plan, GPS and the Uber/Little network that acts as the hub. Drivers need to have phones with great GPS connectivity so that they can be tracked easily by their customers and for accurate positioning.
This topic has always bugged me for a while since I’ve experienced instances where the driver could not locate me accurately.
Interesting enough, Uber and Little have a list of banned phones that their driver partners should not use. The list of phones include smartphones you would not expect to find.
This is a pretty extensive list by Uber and the most surprising entrant in this list has to be the iPhone 8. Apple had acknowledged GPS issues with iPhones and iPhones released in 2012 or earlier but the exclusion of iPhone 8, iPhone 7 and iPhone 5S here is quite interesting.
Little’s ban list is quite short but they single out specific devices which I will list below:
Little blacklisted the TECNO Y5S, M3 and all X-TIGI devices as of March 2019 while all Infinix devices were blocked as from April 2019.
I decided to check out Bolt (formerly Taxify) and they haven’t blacklisted any phone as specified in their support page. That is a stark contrast to what Little and Uber Kenya have done.
Little and Uber have the exact requirements for a phone that a driver partner should use. I suspect one copied the other.
These are the requirements:
Bolt’s requirements are quite current compared to the ones by Uber and Little.
Bolt warns that they will disable a partner’s account if they show “problematic GPS behaviour.”
