
# Dog and owner bitten by venomous spider a week apart on same street

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:39:24+00:00**

Author: **Aengus O&#39;Hanlon**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/dog-owner-bitten-venomous-spider-20791084)

A dog has been attacked by a venomous spider in the exact same spot where a woman was bitten a week before.
The pet needed treatment from a vet following the incident involving a Noble False Widow spider.
It comes after there were a number of sightings of the creatures in the area where the dog 's owner was attacked just a week prior.
A veterinary clinic is now urging dog owners to take care due to a rise in the number of venomous spiders.
 
Sandycove Veterinary Clinic in Dublin told how a client visited their premises with their pooch, Dublin Live reports.
They posted: "We are asking all of our clients to take extra caution when walking with their dogs.
"One client brushed paths with this little guy on her travels in Killiney Hill in the last week and received quite a nasty looking bite on her leg, which swelled up massively and required urgent treatment.
"Today, her dog was bitten in the exact same spot on a walk.
"False Widow spiders have made Ireland their home in the past couple of years, they are venomous and their bites can be extremely painful."
Noble False Widow spiders can be found in Scotland. There have been a number of sightings in Aberdeen, South Lanarkshire and as far north as Orkney.
South Dublin locals have reported many sightings of the venomous spider in recent months - although there are no indications if they're male or female (the female bite has a stronger sting).
The arachnids have been sparking panic across Ireland, with reports earlier this summer of people suffering bites in Waterford and Kilkenny.
It seems that the creepy crawlies are making more and more appearances in the Irish capital .
Some even said that most of the spiders they see are the false widow.
One woman said: "They are very common here now.. I've so many in my garden and they like to come into the house alot!"
While a man added: "I’d say 6 out of 10 spiders I come across in garden and shed are these guys."
It seems that they still have a tendency to bite, with many warning against the infection that comes with it.
One man said: "Be very careful of them, I got a bite from one, when I was asleep. It got infected and I had to go on antibiotics for two weeks. They are vicious !"
While another added: "Got a bite from one of these. VERY sore and lasted for weeks."
And it seems that a bite is not the only risk - as the spiders like to play mind games.
 
Another woman said: "One on the wall of our house last year jumped at me and kept swinging towards me on a strand of web - terrifying!
"He made quite a mess when I eventually squashed him!"
Experts have warned that while a bite from a False Widow can’t kill people, it can result in intense pain and discomfort for a number of days.
Symptoms of a false widow bite include swelling, itchiness, and irritation of the skin.
In rare cases, some people can have a serious allergic reaction to the bite.
It’s important to get immediate medical attention and see your GP if  you’ve been stung especially if there’s a lot of swelling and pus which indicates an infection.
