
# Child killer Chris Watts complains he's 'in his own hell' after murdering family

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:23:38+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/child-killer-chris-watts-complains-20833681)

Evil child killer Chris Watts, who murdered his own family in cold blood, says he is 'in his own hell' in prison.
The dad claims to have found religion while locked up for the slayings of pregnant wife Shanann and their two daughters Bella and Celeste.
Watts confessed to the sick killings in August 2018 and a source close to him reportedly told People: "A day doesn’t go by — a minute doesn’t go by — where he doesn’t think about his family.”
The bespectacled murderer killed his own family in a twisted bid to start a new life with the woman he was having an affair with.
He tried to claim his wife was missing when in reality he had killed her and then their two children before hiding their bodies.
 
After being sentenced to multiple life sentences on Nov. 19, 2018, Watts, 34, proclaimed himself a “servant of God,” writing in a letter to his mother last June: “I’m still a Dad! I’m still a son! No matter what. Now, I can add servant of God to that mix!”
The source tells People that Watts is well-aware of the reality of the murders. “It will be over his head for the rest of his life, and there’s no escaping it.”
“The anniversary isn’t going to be any different from any other day, where he’s in his own hell,” the source says. “He realizes that he’s in a hell of his own making, and he has to live with that.”
 
Last November, Watts pleaded guilty to the August 13 2018, murders of Shanann, 34, Bella, four, and Celeste, three.
In February Watts shed light on horrifying details of the murders.
He said that Shannan 'may have been' praying as he strangled her to death in their bedroom.
 He said he then drove his wife’s body to his job site at an oil field, where he buried her in a shallow grave as his young daughters waited in the car. Then he smothered both girls and dumped their bodies in two large oil tanks.
 
During the confession, Watts said that whenever he closes his eyes, he hears his oldest daughter’s final words begging him not to kill her.
“Daddy, no!,” Bella reportedly screamed as her father moved in to smother her with the same blanket he’d used to kill her sister Celeste moments before.
“I hear it every day, when Bella was talking to me,” Watts told police. “When she said, ‘Daddy, no!’”
The bodies were found three days after they were reported 'missing' with Watts even giving an emotional appeal to TV cameras for their safe return while knowing they were dead.
Watts had been having an affair with colleague Nicol Kessinger who told police that Watts had lied to her that he was separated from Shannan when they started dating.
