
# This Is How the US Military's Massive Facial Recognition System Works

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:45:00+00:00**

Author: **msmash**

Original: [yro.slashdot.org](https://yro.slashdot.org/story/19/11/06/1538219/this-is-how-the-us-militarys-massive-facial-recognition-system-works)

Over the last 15 years, the United States military has developed a new addition to its arsenal. The weapon is deployed around the world, largely invisible, and grows more powerful by the day. From a report: That weapon is a vast database, packed with millions of images of faces, irises, fingerprints, and DNA data -- a biometric dragnet of anyone who has come in contact with the U.S. military abroad. The 7.4 million identities in the database range from suspected terrorists in active military zones to allied soldiers training with U.S. forces. "Denying our adversaries anonymity allows us to focus our lethality. It's like ripping the camouflage netting off the enemy ammunition dump," wrote Glenn Krizay, director of the Defense Forensics and Biometrics Agency, in notes obtained by OneZero. The Defense Forensics and Biometrics Agency (DFBA) is tasked with overseeing the database, known officially as the Automated Biometric Information System (ABIS).DFBA and its ABIS database have received little scrutiny or press given the central role they play in U.S. military's intelligence operations. But a newly obtained presentation and notes written by the DFBA's director, Krizay, reveals how the organization functions and how biometric identification has been used to identify non-U.S. citizens on the battlefield thousands of times in the first half of 2019 alone. ABIS also allows military branches to flag individuals of interest, putting them on a so-called "Biometrically Enabled Watch List" (BEWL). Once flagged, these individuals can be identified through surveillance systems on battlefields, near borders around the world, and on military bases. The presentation also sheds light on how military, state, and local law enforcement biometrics systems are linked. According to Krizay's presentation, ABIS is connected to the FBI's biometric database, which is in turn connected to databases used by state and local law enforcement.
