
# Report: Colin Farrell May Play Penguin in The Batman

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:30:06+00:00**

Author: **Blair Marnell**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/movies/471115-report-colin-farrell-may-play-penguin-in-the-batman)

It looks like Robert Pattinson’s Dark Knight is going to have his hands full in The Batman. According to Deadline, director Matt Reeves and Warner Bros. are circling Colin Farrell to play the film’s third major villain: The Penguin.
Farrell hasn’t closed his deal yet, so it’s not final yet. However, this would be his second major comic book villain. Back in 2003, Farrell portrayed the assassin, Bullseye opposite Ben Affleck in Daredevil. Farrell also starred in Minority Report, Total Recall‘s remake, and Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find Them.
Paul Dano has already been cast as the Riddler, while Zoe Kravitz will play Catwoman. Additionally, Jeffrey Wright will portray Batman’s ally, Commissioner James Gordon. Reeves is co-writing the script with Mattson Tomlin. Their script is said to be more of a detective story than previous Batman films. More recently, Reeves publicly asked composer Michael Giacchino to score The Batman. Guacchino agreed, which will make him the third composer to score both Spider-Man and Batman. This will be the first Batman solo film since The Dark Knight Rises in 2012.
The Batman will hit theaters on June 25, 2021.
What do you think about Colin Farrell as the Penguin? Share your thoughts in the comment section below!

        Recommended Reading: Batman Arkham: Penguin
      

        We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
      
