
# Xi: China to further ease market access for foreign investment

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Xinhua &amp; China Daily**

Original: [Eleven Media Group Co., Ltd](https://elevenmyanmar.com/news/xi-china-to-further-ease-market-access-for-foreign-investment)

 
SHANGHAI - Chinese President Xi Jinping said Tuesday the country will further ease market access for foreign investment and shorten the negative list.
China will continue to improve the business environment to make it more market-oriented, law-based and internationalized, Xi said while delivering a keynote speech at the opening ceremony of the second China International Import Expo.
He said China will pay more attention to the role of import and continue to open up its market and that steps will be taken to further cut tariffs and institutional costs, nurture a batch of innovative demonstration zones for import facilitation, and expand import of high-quality products and services from other countries.
In his speech, Xi pledged that China will adopt five measures to promote higher-level opening up: continue to expand market opening up; continue to optimize the framework of opening up; continue to improve business environment; continue to deepen multilateral and bilateral cooperation; continue to jointly build the Belt and Road.
He called for efforts to uphold the core values and basic principles of the multilateral trading regime, and promote trade and investment liberalization.
Xi urged resolute opposition to protectionism and unilateralism in a bid to jointly build a world economy of openness and cooperation.
He proposed continuous reduction of trade barriers and further improvement of global value and supply chains to jointly nurture market demand.
He called on countries to oppose knowledge blockade to avoid creating or even widening technological divide.
Xi also urged jointly strengthening protection of intellectual property rights.
Three proposals for economic globalization
The Chinese president put forward three proposals for economic globalization involving jointly building an open and cooperative world economy; jointly building an open and innovative world economy; and jointly building an open and sharing world economy. 
Countries should uphold the concept of putting humanity first and should not let their own interest override that of mankind, Xi said.
Xi Jinping extended warm welcome to all guests to the second China International Import Expo opening here Tuesday.
Declaring the second China International Import Expo open, Xi said he believes that all friends could come with pleasure and return with satisfaction.
 
 
