
# Charles Rhines executed: Killer who stabbed doughnut shop worker is put to death

Published at: **2019-11-05T02:40:52+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/breaking-charles-rhines-excecuted-killer-20812986)

A man who stabbed a doughnut shop co-worker to death has been executed by lethal injection tonight.
Charles Rhines, 63, from South Dakota, US, was convicted after the 1992 killing.
Rhines was sentenced to death for killing Donnivan Schaeffer, 22, while robbing the doughnut shop in Rapid City, South Dakota.
The US Supreme Court had denied three 11th-hour petitions for stays of his execution.
He died at the South Dakota State Penitentiary, in Sioux Falls, at 7.39pm local time last night.
The murderer believed he was targeted by an anti-gay bias as testimony showed some jury thought it would be better for him to die than to co-habit with another man.
 
One juror, Harry Keeney, told Rhines' legal team: "We also knew that he was a homosexual and thought that he shouldn't be able to spend life with men in prison."
In his last words, the killer told the parents of Mr Schaeffer, 22, that he 'forgave' them for their 'anger and hatred' towards him.
Speaking just before his execution, Rhines reportedly said: "Ed and Peggy Schaeffer, I forgive you for your anger and hatred toward me.
 
"I pray to God that he forgives you for your anger and hatred toward me. Thanks to my team. I love you all, goodbye. Let's go. That's all I have to say. Goodbye."
The victim's mum told a press conference last night: "Today do something kind for someone in honor (of Donnivan)... he is loved and missed and will never be forgotten.
"We will miss him, and have missed him for so long."
She described her son as 'the boy with a goofy, contagious laugh' who would have been a great asset to society.
The mother added that last night's execution marked 'relief and justice'.
Mr Schaeffer’s fiancée, who witnessed the murderer's death, added: “This closes the book on Rhines, but we will forever feel the pain and emotion."
The murderer's last meal request was fried chicken, the fruit cantaloupe or musk melon, the Norwegian flatbread lefsa, yogurt, butter, black licorice, cookies and cream ice cream, root beer and coffee with cream and sugar.
 
