
# Madoya holds six stroke lead at Entebbe Open

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:39:16+00:00**

Author: **Capital Sport**

Original: [Capital Sports](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/sports/2019/11/01/madoya-holds-six-stroke-lead-at-entebbe-open/)


        ENTEBBE, Uganda, Nov 1 – Great Rift Valley Lodge and Golf Resort’s Justus Madoya returned a round score of par, after round three to open a six stroke lead at the summit of the Entebbe Open heading into the last round of play.
      
Madoya who was the overnight leader coming into round three, started his round with par scores through the first three holes, before bogeying the par-4 fourth and the par-3 sixth.
He however managed to recover these with birdies in the last two holes, for a turning score of par. It was a similar tale on the back nine with a bogey on the tenth, cancelled out with a birdie on the 15th, to see him return a round score of par.
His score saw him take advantage of the slip ups by the chasing pack, led by Uganda’s Herman Mutaawe and Zimbabwe’s Robson Chinhoi, who started the day three shots behind Madoya.
Herman shot a round of 3-over par, 74 to see him fall a further three shots behind the leader but still maintain his second spot on the leaderboard, at the close of the round.
Chinhoi played a shot worse than Mutaawe, to find himself in a four way tie in third place on a gross score of 1-over par, 214, alongside Kenyan trio of Dismas Indiza, Kopan Timbe and CJ Wangai.
The third round however belonged to Johnnie Walker sponsored Dismas Indiza, who shot a round leading score of 2-under par to see him climb six places on the leaderboard to third.
The Mumias based golfer wasted no time in making his intentions clear, starting off with a birdie on the first. He would make a further birdie on the fourth, before dropping his first shot at the par-4, ninth, he replicated these scores on the back nine, for a round score of 2-under par, 69 to take his total score to 1-over par, 214.
The quartet sit three shots ahead of Uganda’s Henry Lujja, and Kenyan Duo of Greg Snow and David Wakhu, who currently hold a score of 4-over par, 217, Tony Omuli, who won his first event on the Safari tour during the Royal Nairobi Golf club leg, is in tenth place, one stroke behind.
The stage is set for a mouth-watering finish at the Entebbe Golf Club, with up to six players in with a chance of winning the 2019 Entebbe Open, fourth round action is set to tee off at 7:00 AM.
(Visited 10 times, 1 visits today)
