
# Takács Quartet review – soaring with absolute freedom

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:45:11+00:00**

Author: **Erica Jeal**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/music/2019/nov/06/takacs-quartet-review-wigmore-hall-london)


        Wigmore Hall, London From Hadyn’s chirruping birds to knotty Mendelssohn, the quartet shows unlimited musical imagination
      
It’s no coincidence that a string quartet’s first violinist is called its leader. Even in an ensemble nominally made up of four equals, that player tends to dominate, defining the group’s musical agenda. But it doesn’t have to be that way. What endures about the Takács Quartet, year after year, is how equally the four players carry the music. Edward Dusinberre’s violin can soar with absolute freedom above the rest because there’s no need for him to lead; the other three are already there with him.
This recital knitted three disparate works together surprisingly well. Haydn’s Op 33 No 3 is nicknamed The Bird, but there was a whole flock at play here: warbles and chirrups peppered the first violin line in the faster movements, but equally striking were the accompanying figures from second violinist Harumi Rhodes and violist Geraldine Walther, a stubborn, irrepressible peck-peck. The most characteristic passages in the outer movements conjured a mass of songbirds chattering from too-small cages, rattling their beaks on the metal. Yet the musical imagination was far from being limited to bird impressions, and the muted slow movement began pregnant with possibility, Dusinberre playing high up the lowest string to dark-timbred effect.
Bartók’s Quartet No 2 makes much early on of a little falling figure with a tiny shrug of a trill: an echo of birdsong in a work whose melancholy and ferocity is a world away from Haydn’s. And yet often the dominant characteristic of the Takács’ playing was sweetness, even as the intensity tightened and the screw turned – except in the ferocious second movement, where the music slid and swerved with only a fleeting loss of momentum.
If anything, Mendelssohn’s quartets are even harder to bring off than Bartók’s, thanks to their unceasingly busy textures and passages of knotty, Bach-inspired counterpoint. The Takács, however, made relatively light work of the A minor quartet, Op 13, keeping the balance precise, the energy unforced. The return of the opening hymn at the very end felt like a resolution not only of the individual work but of the whole evening’s music.
