
# 2020 Volkswagen ID.4 teased in China

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:01:21+00:00**

Author: **James Wong**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805298/2020-volkswagen-id-4-teased-china/)

- shares
Volkswagen has detailed its upcoming product offensive for the Chinese market, in the process teasing the new ID.4 electric crossover which is due to be revealed in the coming months.
Despite the ID.3 hatchback having already gone on sale in Europe, the Tiguan-sized ID.4 will be the first of Volkswagen's new EV models to hit the Chinese market when production starts in 12 months time – similar to how it will kickstart the brand's electrification push in Australia, too.
The ID.4 will be the first of 10 new MEB-based electric vehicles to launch in China by 2023, along with a range of new plug-in hybrid models and cars with "high-efficiency combustion engines".
Volkswagen has confirmed a version of the ID.3 will be sold in China following the launch of the ID.4, to be produced at a new plant in Anting by the SAIC Volkswagen joint venture.
Beyond the upcoming range of electrified models, the German brand has committed to a slew of new "high-efficiency" combustion-powered models.
One of these will be a market-specific version of the T-Cross, dubbed the Tacqua (above), which will be produced by FAW Volkswagen, while the new Viloran people mover will be built by SAIC Volkswagen.
Since 2018 Volkswagen has commenced the rollout of 14 new models in China, including five new SUVs.
"We have given our brand a new look, a new character, a new corporate goal focusing fully on decarbonisation and new cars," said Stephan Wöllenstein, CEO for Volkswagen Group China.
"The ID.Next and ID.3 show that we are on the way to mobility with a neutral carbon balance with battery electric vehicles."
Like China, Volkswagen's Australian electrification rollout will kick off with the ID.4 – though the first examples aren't expected to touch down in 2022.
Speaking with media at the recent Frankfurt motor show, Volkswagen's local product planning boss, Jeff Shafer, said the Australian division is aiming to have the ID.4 kick off at below $50,000, which would put it well below the current price point of the Hyundai Kona Electric and Tesla Model 3.
"I'm an optimist," he said, "I would like to see something under $50,000. If we could bring in that ID SUV [the ID.4] in that space, I think it'd be very successful in a lot of ways."
"As Michael [Bartsch, VW Australia managing director] said, it's a long journey compared to where we are at today," Shafer continued, "I had that meeting again today. And without saying anything I shouldn't, we have a couple of meetings coming up in November, where we are going to be having this discussion again."
13
nextprevious2020 Volkswagen ID.4 teased in China
