
# This Lenovo Smart Tab Is Like A 10-Inch Echo Show For $130

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:37:19+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/this-lenovo-smart-tab-is-like-a-10-inch-echo-show-for-130.html)

The only thing better than a 10-inch Echo Show for $180 is this 10-inch Lenovo Smart Tab with a dock that's on sale for $130. Right now you can grab the Lenovo Smart Tab at its sale price over on Amazon.
While this isn't a proper Echo Show, it has Alexa built-in, and comes with the dock. So, it's basically the Echo Show. The difference? You can also use it as a tablet.
This gives you a dual-purpose device that can be taken with you away from the home or office if you need it. Meanwhile, if you simply want it to spend most of its time in the kitchen, it can.
Advertisement
It gets better, too. The Lenovo Smart Tab has dual front-facing stereo speakers. So you can expect really good audio quality when being used for any entertainment.
There are two 3x full-range speakers on the dock as well. So whenever you slide the tablet into it you can still get great audio that fills the room. There are easy to use controls for volume on the dock too. So if things do get too loud, you can adjust the audio easily.
Because the tablet turns into a smart screen when docked, this is probably one of the cheapest, good-quality smart screens you'll find. And, with 16GB of storage you have plenty of space for movies, games, and apps.
Advertisement
With Alexa integration, you can use your voice to control its numerous functions, docked or not. The last thing you want is this device getting all greasy and dirty when you're hands aren't clean. Or perhaps you just don't have your hands free and you need to look something up.
No problem, just ask Alexa. Done and done. The Lenovo Smart Tab comes with a Snapdragon 429 processor with 2GB of RAM. In addition to the 16GB of internal storage, it also supports external micro SD cards up to 256GB.
Advertisement

        Lenovo Smart Tab - Amazon - $130
      
