
# The Good, Bad And Ugly FromThe Green Bay Packers’ Loss To The Los Angeles Chargers

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rob Reischel**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/robreischel/2019/11/03/the-good-bad-and-ugly-fromthe-green-bay-packers-loss-to-the-los-angeles-chargers/)

The Green Bay Packers had not lost to the Los Angeles/San Diego Chargers since 1984.Green Bay had compiled a seven-game winning streak against the Chargers and held a 10-1 all-time record in the series.
That all went up in smoke Sunday, though.
The Packers, a 3.5-point favorite, played their worst game of the Matt LaFleur-era and one of their poorest games in years. The result was a 26-11 Los Angeles win.
Here’s the good, bad and ugly from Green Bay’s loss to the Chargers. Needless to say, the latter two categories will dominate this week’s column.

        THE GOOD
      
NFC NORTH WOES: About the only good news for Green Bay is the rest of the NFC North had rough days, as well, as the division went 0-4 as a whole.
Second-place Minnesota lost in Kansas City, 26-23. Third-place Detroit fell at Oakland, 31-24. And Chicago — last year’s division champs — suffered its fourth straight defeat after losing in Philadelphia, 22-14.
Green Bay, which entered the game one game ahead of Minnesota, remained atop the division and is now 7-2 overall. The Packers are behind both San Francisco (8-0) and New Orleans (7-1) in the race for homefield in the playoffs.

        THE BAD
      
AARON RODGERS: Green Bay’s quarterback entered the day on one of the hottest streaks of his career. In the last two games, Rodgers had thrown eight touchdowns, no interceptions, completed 75.0% of his passes and has a passer rating of 152.0.
Los Angeles made Rodgers look like just another run-of-the-mill player, though.
Rodgers threw for just 61 yards through three quarters, completing 11-of-19 passes in that time. Rodgers finished 23-of-35 for 161 yards and a touchdown largely because he padded his numbers against the Chargers’ prevent defense late. But Rodgers — the frontrunner for MVP honors before Sunday — looked nothing like an MVP against the Chargers.
THE OFFENSE: The Packers had just seven yards in the first quarter and didn’t notch their first first down of the game until the second quarter. Things never got much better.
Green Bay finished with just 184 total yards and averaged only 3.8 yards per play. The Packers never had any rhythm in their passing game, ran the ball a season-low 11 times and killed themselves with pre-snap penalties.
It was easily Green Bay’s poorest offensive performance since the season-opener in Chicago.
THE DEFENSE: The Chargers gashed Green Bay for 443 yards, 6.7 yards per play and scored on six of their eight drives.
Los Angeles punted just once, converted 45.4% of its third downs and went 1-for-1 on fourth down.
Chargers’ quarterback Philip Rivers looked like a Hall of Famer — which he very well may be one day — by throwing for 294 yards and completing 75.0% of his 28 passes. And after ranking 28th in the league in rushing offense (69.5) through eight weeks, the Chargers gashed Green Bay for 160 rushing yards and 4.44 yards per carry.  
OFFENSIVE LINE: Green Bay’s offensive line was one of the best in football the first seven games. But things haven’t gone nearly as well the last two games.
The Packers allowed five sacks to Kansas City in Week 8. And on Sunday, the Chargers sacked Rodgers three times.
Joey Bosa whipped left tackle David Bakhtiari for a first half sack, and Melvin Ingram smoked right guard Billy Turner for another. Then in the third quarter, Bosa and Ingram shared a sack.
Green Bay must clean up its protection issues immediately or its offense could continue look like it did Sunday.
MATT LAFLEUR: Green Bay’s rookie coach had pushed most of the right buttons while leading Green Bay to a 7-1 record. But LaFleur had his worst day of the season against the Chargers.
The Packers were trying to work Davante Adams back into the offense after their Pro Bowl wideout missed four games with a turf toe injury. Without Adams the past month, LaFleur had been extremely creative getting his other pieces involved.
That didn't happen against the Chargers, though, as Rodgers had eyes mostly for Adams and neither the run or pass game ever got untracked. The Packers are now averaging 19.2 points per game with Adams and 32.5 without him.

        THE UGLY
      
SPECIAL TEAMS: Green Bay’s special teams have been a disaster for years now. And that unit hurt killed the Packers again Sunday.
Midway through the third quarter, Los Angeles rookie Drue Tranquill whipped Green Bay’s B.J. Goodson and blocked JK Scott’s punt. Los Angeles began at Green Bay’s 27, and six plays later, running back Melvin Gordon coasted in for a 1-yard touchdown that gave the Chargers a 19-0 lead.
Then with 10 ½ minutes left, Los Angeles’ Michael Badgley kicked a 19-yard field goal on a fourth-and-goal from the 1. Green Bay’s Tony Brown — an undisciplined, penalty-prone player — was off sides on the play, though.
After the penalty, the Chargers took the points off the board and went for it on fourth down. Gordon then plowed in over left guard for his second touchdown of the day that gave Los Angeles an insurmountable 26-3 lead.
Brown was later penalized twice on the same kickoff — one for being off sides and one for an illegal formation. The Packers released kick returner Darrius Shepherd this week. They should do the same thing Brown in the upcoming days.
JAIRE ALEXANDER: There’s been a lot of noise about Alexander, Green Bay’s second-year cornerback, reaching the Pro Bowl this season. Don’t believe the hype.
Alexander has had his moments, but has also been picked on at times this year. Sunday was another one of those days.
Alexander gambled and lost on a pass to Mike Williams early that hemorrhaged into a 56-yard gain. Then after the Packers closed within 19-3 late in the third quarter, Chargers’ quarterback Philip Rivers hit Williams for a 46-yard completion against Alexander.
Back in Week 5, Alexander allowed 201 yards and seven first downs against Dallas wideout Amari Cooper. Alexander wasn’t any better Sunday.
