
# Car crashes through front of two shops in Clarkston in early morning ram-raids

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:54:34+00:00**

Author: **Peter Davidson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/peter-davidson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/car-crashes-through-front-two-20790553)

Cops are appealing for information after two shops were ram-raided within a mile of each other in the early hours of the morning.
A Scotmid store and a Londis/BP filling station on Mearns Road in Clarkston were targeted after a car was driven into them.
Officers from Police Scotland were called at around 5.20am after reports a Peugeot car reversed into the front of the Co-op causing extensive damage.
A short time later the same vehicle backed into the front of the filling station then made off.
Cops are keen to trace the vehicle and the driver involved. They are urging people who may have any information on the incident to come forward.
Inspector Bryan McGeogh of Giffnock Police Office said: "Officers are currently in the area gathering information for this investigation and gathering CCTV footage.
"Our enquiries are still at an early stage but it does not appear that anything has been stolen.
"Inquiries are ongoing to trace the vehicle involved and its driver.
"The car involved was a silver Peugeot estate which had roof rails running the length of the vehicle.
"The back of the car will be very badly damaged and I would urge anyone with information on its whereabouts, or who was driving to contact police as soon as possible.
"Anyone with information that may assist our investigation should contact the Community Investigation Unit at Govan Police Office through 101 quoting reference numbers 0505 or 0545 of 1st November.
"Alternatively Crimestoppers can be contacted on 0800 555 111, where anonymity can be maintained."
