
# Princess Charlotte Looks Exactly Like Her Cousin Lady Kitty Spencer as a Kid

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:51:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29676697/princess-charlotte-lady-kitty-spencer-photo-resemblence/?utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_source=twitter)

Princess Charlotte has her dad Prince William's eyes, her uncle Prince Harry's childhood sass, and pretty astounding resemblance overall to her cousin Lady Kitty Spencer. Those Spencer genes are strong.
Kitty, a 28-year-old model and the late Princess Diana's niece, shared a new childhood photo on her Instagram this weekend where it's hard not to see William and Kate Middleton's four-year-old daughter Charlotte in kid Kitty's face:
Here's two shots of Charlotte for comparison:
This is not the first time Kitty has been called for looking like Charlotte as a kid, as Hello! pointed out. The model shared another childhood shot where several commenters marveled over the Princess Charlotte resemblance:
Us Weekly ran a report earlier this week about Charlotte and what her life at home with her two brothers Prince George and Prince Louis is like. Personality-wise, "Charlotte’s extremely confident and loves attention," a source told the outlet.
She sometimes will bicker with her older, six-year-old brother George, like most siblings do. “[It’s] usually over silly things like toys or what TV shows they want to watch,” Us' source said. “But most of the time they get on.”
The kids are pretty crafty and create a lot of things with their parents Kate and William: "They love playing together and being creative," the source said. "Painting, baking and building things are all activities they enjoy, and now that Louis’ a bit older [Louis is one now], he gets involved too."
