
# In Hindsight... Infamous Tech Industry Predictions and Quotations

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:52:00+00:00**

Author: **Graham Singer and Julio Franco**

Original: [TechSpot](https://www.techspot.com/article/754-tech-predictions-and-quotes/)

The computing industry is fuelled by prediction and gossip. Before the patent became the carefully guarded weapon it is today, chip engineers from competing companies would often share an astounding amount of information on an informal basis -- not just with each other, but with the wider consumer audience as well.
As an accelerated timeline of novel products, new features and standards gained momentum, the sound bite and quotable quote became the means to become noticed by a user base clamouring for any tidbit in the thousands of tech-centric forums and the endless stream of industry related magazines.
Three years before co-founding Intel and whilst working as Fairchild Semiconductors head of R&D, Gordon E. Moore authored an article “Cramming More Components Onto Integrated Circuits” which appeared in the April 19, 1965 edition of Electronics Magazine. In that paper Moore predicted that the transistor count for a minimum component cost would double every year for at least a decade based upon Fairchild’s previous five years of IC design. So accurate a forecast -- and self-fulfilling prophecy -- Moore and Intel became prime movers in the industry and his prediction is enshrined as Moore’s law.
Within an industry known as much for its predictive pronouncements and verbal sparring as its actual innovation, low bandwidth morality, and elastic attitude towards intellectual property rights, many have felt compelled to follow Gordon Moore in bringing their judgements and observations into the public eye… with varying degrees of success.
“Two years from now, spam will be solved” – Bill Gates, founder and then Microsoft's Chairman [World Economic Forum, January 2004]
“If I were running Apple, I would milk the Macintosh for all it's worth — and get busy on the next great thing. The PC wars are over. Done. Microsoft won a long time ago.” – Steve Jobs, before he returned to Apple [Fortune, February 1996]“What would I do? I'd shut it down and give the money back to the shareholders” – Michael Dell, Chairman/CEO of Dell Computers said when asked what he would do if he was CEO of Apple [Various news outlets, October 1997]
“The era of the PC is over” – Louis Gerstner, Chairman/CEO of IBM [Smart Computing, July 1999]“There's no doubt that the antitrust lawsuit was bad for Microsoft, and we would have been more focused on creating the phone operating system. And so instead of using Android today, you would be using Windows Mobile” – Bill Gates on why he thinks Microsoft was unable to build the world's most popular mobile OS... he got too personally involved with the company's antitrust battle in the late 90s [New York Times DealBook Conference – November 2019]“There's no chance that the iPhone is going to get any significant market share. No chance.” – Steve Ballmer, Microsoft CEO [USA Today, April 2007]
