
# ‘The Little Mermaid Live’ Format Blends The Original Film With New Performances

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:35:15+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/the-little-mermaid-live-format-blends-the-original-film-with-new-performances-19300316)

In a new spin on a Disney classic, The Little Mermaid Live! format blends the original film with new performances. ABC’s The Little Mermaid Live! will serve as “part animated film," "part live spectacle,” and “100% Disney magic,” according to a promo, as a star-studded cast brings the fairytale to life on the Disney lot. While the actors perform the beloved songs and scenes in real time, the original 1989 film will be projected on a screen. The result will thus be an alternation (as well as a combination) of the two forces. The two-hour musical event, set to premiere on ABC on Tuesday, Nov. 5, serves as a tribute to the film’s 30th anniversary this month.
To celebrate the milestone, ABC enlisted an all-star cast to headline the special. The Little Mermaid Live! will star Auli’i Cravalho as the titular mermaid Ariel, Queen Latifah as the sea witch Ursula, John Stamos as the crab-hungry Chef Louis, Graham Phillips as Ariel's love interest Prince Eric, Shaggy as the Jamaican sea crab Sebastian, and Glee alum Amber Riley as the emcee. As for the roles of the other beloved sea critters (ahem, Flounder), it appears as though the remaining characters may be brought to life by puppets. On Twitter on Tuesday, ABC shared a teaser clip of the live spectacular that offered a glimpse of puppets intermixed with humans on set.
If the star-studded cast isn’t enough to entice viewers, this particular tidbit just might: Jodi Benson, the original voice of Ariel in the 1989 classic, is expected to make an appearance in an undisclosed role, as per PEOPLE.
