
# There's A Good Reason Alexander Skarsgard Signed On For Godzilla Vs. Kong

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:35:54+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483793/theres-a-good-reason-alexander-skarsgard-signed-on-for-godzilla-vs-kong)

Written By
Sometimes an actor takes a role because it’s too good of an idea to pass up, while in other cases the change of pace is what determines someone like actor Alexander Skarsgård taking a role in a film like director Adam Wingard’s Godzilla vs. Kong. That very scenario is what lead to the actor taking part in the latest Monster-Verse entry, set to debut early next year.
Alexander Skarsgård admitted as much during a recent interview, as he explained his choice thusly:
Bleaker roles have been a bit of a specialty for Alexander Skarsgård, and that pattern certainly isn’t going to let up any time soon. Skarsgård proved this to be true when he recently accepted the role of Randall Flagg, the legendary villain at the heart of CBS All Access’ limited series adaptation of Stephen King’s The Stand. But even with his villainous credentials continuing to present themselves in his work, Alexander Skarsgård has still given himself some more room to let loose in pre-Godzilla vs. Kong roles.
This summer’s romantic comedy Long Shot saw the former True Blood actor playing a very fictional equivalent of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, which is most certainly different from the roles that he mentioned to Collider above. So just how did Godzilla vs. Kong manage to land Alexander Skarsgård? That too was explained in this interview, as the actor laid out the path to this credit as follows:
This change of pace sounds like a good fit for Alexander Skarsgård, but it sounds even better for Godzilla vs. Kong, as his inclusion may be refreshing enough to boost the box office chances of the next film in Warner Bros’ Monster-Verse. We’ll see soon enough as Godzilla vs. Kong marches into theaters forcefully on March 13, 2020; provided it sticks with its original release date on the 2020 release schedule.
But if you want to see more Alexander Skarsgård without that long of a wait, his latest film, The Kill Team is in theaters and on VOD now.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
