
# 2020 Triumph Bobber TFC revealed at EICMA 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:57:00+00:00**

Author: **Vishal Venugopal**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/2020-triumph-bobber-tfc-reveiled-at-eicma-2019-414763)

Just like the other two TFC models, this one too features higher-spec hardware and is limited to 750 units.
Earlier this year, Triumph Motorcycles unveiled two custom motorcycles – the Thruxton TFC and Rocket 3 TFC – designed by its in-house custom bike wing called Triumph Factory Customs or TFC. The British manufacturer has just added a third motorcycle to this line-up, unveiling the Bobber TFC at EICMA. The Bobber TFC, just like the other TFC models, features high-end premium hardware, produces more power and torque, and will be limited to 750 units, worldwide. 
The Bobber TFC produces 10hp (a 13 percent increase) and 4Nm more than the international-spec standard Bobber and Bobber Black, which make 77hp and 106Nm; the standard Bobbers we get in India produces slightly lower figures, at 76.8hp and 103.9Nm of torque. The increased performance comes from upgrades in the form of lighter-weight engine components, such as a low-inertia crankshaft, clutch, balance shafts, dead-shafts, rare-earth alternator, magnesium cam cover, thin-walled engine covers and header pipes. These changes also enable the engine to rev 500rpm higher, to 7,500rpm. The powertrain is complemented by an exhaust system with Arrow titanium pipes and carbon-fibre end caps.
The weight savings extend to the rest of the motorcycle as well and the use of lighter components – carbon-fibre body work and lack of a tail-light – see a 5kg reduction in weight. The Bobber TFC also features a fully adjustable Öhlins USD fork and rear suspension unit. Braking hardware includes Brembo four-piston M50 radial monobloc calipers and twin floating Brembo front discs, assisted by a Brembo radial master cylinder. The Bobber TFC will also offer three riding modes – Road, Rain and Sport.
Apart from the technical updates, the TFC also features a host of cosmetic updates and premium touches. These include the carbon bodywork, a custom paint scheme, black powder-coated frame and swingarm, black anodised wheels, knurled handlebar grips and billet-machined aluminium oil filler cap. The black theme continues to the Öhlins RSU spring, Öhlins forks and engine covers. 
The Bobber TFC has been priced at £15,500 (Rs 14.11 lakh) in the UK. For reference, the standard Bobber costs £10,650 (Rs 9.7 lakh) in the UK, while it costs Rs 10.28 lakh in India.
 
