
# Hockey India announces 33 players for Junior Men's National Coaching Camp

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:18:42+00:00**

Author: **Press Release**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/hockey/2019/nov/03/hockey-india-announces-33-players-for-junior-mens-national-coaching-camp?utm_medium=rss)


        Hockey India has named a list 33 core probables list of players for the four-week National Coaching Camp that has been scheduled to take place at the Sports Authority of India, Bengaluru, from November 4. High Performance Director David John stated that the players needed to improve their passing.
      
New Delhi, 03 November 2019: Hockey India today named the 33 Core Probables list for the upcoming Indian Junior Men's National Coaching Camp scheduled to begin on Monday, 4 November 2019. Players will report at the Sports Authority of India, Bengaluru Campus for the four-week National Coaching Camp that concludes on 1 December 2019. The Indian Junior Men's Team put up a fantastic performance at the 9th Sultan of Johor Cup earlier this month, beating Malaysia, New Zealand and Australia in the competition. India finished runners-up after going down fighting against Great Britain in the Final.
The Core Probables list includes Goalkeepers Pawan, Prashant Kumar Chauhan and Sahil Kumar Nayak, Defenders Suman Beck, Pratap Lakra, Sanjay, Yashdeep Siwach, Mandeep Mor, Parampreet Singh, Dinachandra Singh Moirangthem, Nabin Kujur, Sharda Nand Tiwari, Niraj Kumar Waribam. The Midfielders called-up for the National Coaching Camp are Sukhman Singh, Gregory Xess, Ankit Pal, Akashdeep Singh Jr., Vishnu Kant Singh, Gopi Kumar Sonkar, Vishal Antil, Surya NM, Maninder Singh, and Rabichandra Singh Moirangthem. 
Forwards Sudeep Chirmako, Rahul Kumar Rajbhar, Uttam Singh, S Karthi, Dilpreet Singh, Araijeet Singh Hundal, Amandeep Singh, Prabhjot Singh, Shivam Anand and Arshdeep Singh have also been asked to report for the National Coaching Camp.
The Indian Junior Men's Core Probable Group has been playing together for over a year now and they will certainly look to work on a few aspects of their game to become an even better side in the upcoming tournaments. "The Indian team played with a lot of heart at the 9th Sultan of Johor Cup. The players executed their plans well and showed a lot of discipline on the field. We were disappointed to finish runners-up, but this national coaching camp will give us a chance to focus on getting into good positions and creating goal-scoring opportunities. The group needs to improve on passing the ball and team coordination as well," said stated David John, High Performance Director, Hockey India.
CORE PROBABLES LIST:

        GOALKEEPERS
      
1 Pawan
2 Prashant Kumar Chauhan
3 Sahil Kumar Nayak 

        DEFENDERS
      
4 Suman Beck
5 Pratap Lakra
6 Sanjay
7 Yashdeep Siwach
8 Mandeep Mor
9 Parampreet Singh
10 Dinachandra Singh Moirangthem
11 Nabin Kujur
12 Sharda Nand Tiwari
13 Niraj Kumar Waribam 

        MID-FIELDERS
      
14 Sukhman Singh
15 Gregory Xess
16 Ankit Pal
17 Akashdeep Singh Jr.
18 Vishnu Kant Singh
19 Gopi Kumar Sonkar
20 Vishal Antil
21 Surya NM
22 Maninder Singh
23 Rabichandra Singh Moirangthem 

        FORWARDS
      
24 Sudeep Chirmako
25 Rahul Kumar Rajbhar
26 Uttam Singh
27 S Karthi
28 Dilpreet Singh
29 Araijeet Singh Hundal
30 Amandeep Singh
31 Prabhjot Singh
32 Shivam Anand
33 Arshdeep Singh
