
# Vandals 'violently destroy' Roma Holocaust memorial plaque in Glasgow

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:39:16+00:00**

Author: **Nicholas Keyden, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/nicholas-keyden/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/vandals-violently-destroy-roma-holocaust-20831125)

Callous vandals have destroyed a Roma Holocaust memorial in Glasgow dedicated to men, women and children who were murdered during World War II .
The Romani Rose Tree Memorial was planted in Queen's Park on Roma Genocide Memorial Day, August 2, by young people from the Govanhill community.
But the plaque memorialising the men, women and children who lost their lives has been ripped from its podium in a senseless act of vandalism.
Local residents reported that it had been "violently destroyed" on Monday November 4.
Romano Lav, a Glasgow charity supporting the Roma community's rights, have vowed to rebuild the memorial.
In a statement posted on Facebook, they said: "We are disgusted by this act of vandalism.
 
"We will not tolerate racism, intimidation, or intolerance directed towards our Roma communities, or indeed towards anyone else.
"Roma Genocide Memorial Day is about remembrance, but it is also about resistance. That this hateful act occurred at all underscores the need for this memorial.
"We will continue to honour the memory of those who lost their lives during the Holocaust, whilst fighting against the racism that marks our contemporary political moment, and that is a scourge on our society and communities.
"We will restore the Holocaust memorial to its original condition and we call upon all of our friends, neighbours, and allies – locally and internationally – to stand in solidarity with our Roma communities and to join us in resisting racism, today and every day."
 
It is believed to be the first memorial to the Roma genocide erected in Scotland.
A spokesperson for Stand Up To Racism said: "We are disgusted at this news. To desecrate the memory of the Roma and Gypsy people’s suffering in the holocaust is an outrage that all Glasgwegians, bar the mindless perpetrators of this attack, will oppose.
"As part of a heightened atmosphere of racism across Europe we've seen violent attacks on Roma people in Italy and elsewhere alongside the growth of the far right.
"Racism, Islamophobia and antisemitism are at the centre of the racist and fascist right’s agenda. Just like in the 1930s, the Roma people are also becoming a target.
"We stand with our Roma neighbours and friends and condemn this.
A Police Scotland spokesperson said: "The incident has not been reported to police, although officers are aware through posts on social media and will be approaching those concerned." 
