
# Mandryk: Gov't handling of water's lead contamination sign of aging

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:00:39+00:00**

Author: **Murray Mandryk**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/opinion/columnists/mandryk-govt-handling-of-waters-lead-contamination-sign-of-aging)

The complacency problem of aging governments isn’t just about no longer caring about issues …  although governments do sometimes reach that point.
What usually first happens to aging governments is they stop recognizing issues as being of legitimate public concern, start downplaying legitimate concerns as inconsequential and then somehow find ways to lay the problem at the feet of others.
Sadly, Highways and Water Security Agency Minister Greg Ottenbreit’s reaction to the Leader-Post/Global News/journalism school investigation into unacceptable lead levels in drinking water in Regina, Saskatoon and Moose Jaw was a textbook example of all three responses.
According to Ottenbreit on Monday, lead in the water in some Saskatchewan homes is largely the  homeowners’ responsibility, because aging homes with lead pipes are the property owners’ problem and can often be simply addressed with proper water filters in the house. (One wonders what his message is for those who rent such homes.)
It’s a cities problem because “over the years we’ve increased municipal revenue sharing with municipalities to make sure that they can have flexible funding that they can address issues like this,” Ottenbreit told reporters Monday. That towns and cities have been complaining for years that cuts to the revenue sharing pool have them scrambling to cover just the basics appears lost on the government.
And, of course, it’s the federal government’s problem because … well, everything is the federal government’s fault these days. In this case, if the federal government would simply allow more flexibility with federal transfer payments currently designated for transit, the province could dedicate money to things like sewer infrastructure … presuming the provincial government thought this to be a serious issue in the first place.
Tomorrow marks the Sask. Party’s 12th anniversary. Declaring lead in drinking water as everyone else’s problem seems an odd way to celebrate.
Yes, this is a complex issue that can’t just be assigned to the province, either. One even gets why the highways minister (why are water issues a subsidiary of the highways department?) would want to avoid public panic by making it abundantly clear this isn’t a water source problem — something that would obviously fall more directly under the provincial jurisdiction of the Water Security Agency and public health and safety.
But Ottenbreit’s far-too-nonchalant response Monday comes as cold comfort to those who are directly affected, like Regina resident Steven Wolfson, whose home was found to have lead level 10 times the acceptable Health Canada guidelines.
“How many children are we going to allow to be contaminated by lead?” Wolfson asked. “I think the province does have a responsibility to make some sort of legislation that protects the children and other people that are drinking that water to make sure that the water is tested and that people know about it.”
Nor does it seem NDP MLA Trent Wotherspoon’s call for a provincial review in the wake of this investigation is that unreasonable. It’s hardly an opposition overreach or overreaction. “The levels of lead that were exposed in this report are really troubling,” Wotherspoon said.
The multi-year journalism schools/university/media outlet investigation that included the University of Regina School of Journalism collected some 2,600 samples across the country. It revealed averages of 22 parts per billion in the three Saskatchewan cities — well above Health Canada’s recommended limit of five ppb. These levels of lead contamination are higher than in Flint, Michigan, the city now notorious for its water crisis.
Ottenbreit may be right that the Flint water crisis problem originated from the source, but it was simply flippant to suggest that this is a homeowner issue or the problem of some other government. Given how obstreperous it was in accommodating freedom of information requests in this very investigation, maybe now would be a good time to least acknowledge that the investigation has revealed real concerns the government is taking seriously.
That’s not what Ottenbreit and the Sask. Party government did Monday. Instead, government did what aging governments do — forget why they are are there.

        Mandryk is the political columnist the Regina Leader-Post.
      
