
# Lisa Faulkner shows off dazzling wedding ring after marrying John Torode

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:07:44+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/lisa-faulkner-shows-dazzling-wedding-20820896)

Lisa Faulkner has shown off her dazzling wedding ring for the first time after marrying John Torode.
The 47-year-old former EastEnders actress shared a snap of the diamond band on Instagram , after tying the knot with the MasterChef judge, who is also 47.
They became husband and wife at the plush surrounds of Aynhoe Park in Banbury in front of a host of their celebrity friends and family.
On Monday evening, Lisa treated her followers to a first look at the latest dazzling addition to her jewellery collection, which features floral inspired shaped diamonds.
Lisa has also admitted that she has had to "look after my hands" since being with John, revealing on social media that they have become a focus of her attention.
As she held her hands against a stunning backdrop of white petals, Lisa captioned the pic: "I’ve never been one to look after my hands and especially not my nails but since I got engaged and then married.
"I’m trying to look after them!! Thank you for helping me and doing such a lovely manicure @finishingtouchbarnet".
Lisa has already given an insight into her big day, with a number of behind-the-scenes photos and snaps from the wedding day being posted online.
Lisa wore a gown that was customised so that it could turn into two different looks, as she enjoyed the romantic ceremony in the countryside setting.
The pair had been dating since 2015 and revealed that they had a Christmas Day proposal in a Instagram post at the beginning of the year.
Lisa looked majestic on her big day, wearing an A-line satin wedding dress which had a lace overlay on the bodice.
For the reception though, Lisa was able to remove the lace trim, which exposed the gown's neckline and a spaghetti strapped bodice.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
