
# What channel is Man Utd vs Partizan Belgrade on? TV and live stream information

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:20:00+00:00**

Author: **Sam Fletcher**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/what-channel-man-utd-vs-20830079)

Manchester United's Europa League journey continues as they take on Partizan Belgrade.
Although The Red Devils’ Premier League campaign has been underwhelming, they top Europa League Group L on seven points and a win in this tie confirms their progression to the knockout stages.
Despite having 61 percent possession against Partizan two weeks ago, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's men only managed to muster one shot on target in the entire 90 minutes.
Anthony Martial’s penalty was the difference between the sides last time out, but United fans will be hoping the game is more of a formality on home soil.
Here’s everything you need to know before the match...
The game is on Thursday 7 November.
Kick-off is set for 8pm.
Old Trafford is the venue for the game.
Man United have not lost a Europa League home match since a 3-2 defeat against Athletic Bilbao in 2012.
For UK viewers the game is on BT Sport 2.
Coverage is scheduled to start at 7:30pm.
If you are a BT Sport subscriber and are based in the UK, you can stream the action through their website and the BT Sport app.
Alternatively, you can follow all of the action on the Mirror Football live blog.
United have a host of players on the treatment table including star-man Paul Pogba as he recovers from an ankle injury.
Manager Solskjaer is not expecting him back till December, the French international has only made six appearances for the Red Devils this season.
Also sidelined are Diogo Dalot, Eric Bailly, Axel Tuanzebe, Timothy Fosu-Mensah, Luke Shaw and Nemanja Matic.
Belgrade manager Savo Milosevic boats a fully-fit squad ahead of the match with no injury concerns.

        Odds courtesy of thepools.com
      
