
# Celtic boss Neil Lennon in graffiti dig as he blasts pundits over 'personal' Craig Levein attacks

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Michael Gannon, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/michael-gannon/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/celtic-boss-neil-lennon-graffiti-20791813)

Neil Lennon has blasted the punters and pundits who have clobbered Craig Levein and insisted the stick suffered by the ex-Hearts boss has been shameful.
Levein was dismissed as Tynecastle manager and director of footballon Thursday but he found an ally in his old Edinburgh sparring partner.
Lennon clashed with the Jambos legend when he was Hibs gaffer – but he is adamant his former foe did not deserve the abuse he received in the last few weeks in the job.
The Hearts’ Foundation Plaza was spray-painted with Levein Out before the axe fell while ex-Gorgie players have lined up to put the boot in following the decision to remove him from his post.
Lennon was also targeted by vile graffiti in Edinburgh while he was Hibs manager.
The Celtic boss said: “It leaves a bitter taste in my mouth the way some people have behaved towards him as well considering what he’s given to the club.
“I think he deserves a certain amount of respect.
“The job means everything to us – we’re professionals. We live our lives 24 / 7. We give our all and sometimes it doesn’t happen.
“The vitriol at the minute in the game, certainly up here, is appalling I think – the way managers and players are being criticised and abused.
“It gets very personal. These people don’t know Craig, they don’t know what he’s done, they have short memories.
“The graffiti on Foundation Plaza was appalling. I know from my own experience that they like a bit of graffiti around the place.
“It’s a sign of the times. I think it’s really tacky. I think some of the punditry aimed at Craig has been personal and I think that’s unprofessional as well.
“I hope he comes again, put it that way.”
Lennon felt Levein got a raw deal after his squad was decimated by injuries to key players over the last 12 months.
He said: “I’m really disappointed for him as the club meant so much to him and the job meant so much to him.
“I don’t know if there was an inevitability about it based on results but there were mitigating circumstances.
“He’s had a lot of important players injured since this time last year when they were flying.
“You think of the long-term injuries they’ve had to Steven Naismith and John Souttar and now Craig Halkett and Conor Washington.
“There’s no question that those four would make Hearts a better team.”
Lennon’s focus is on his side’s Betfred Cup semi-final showdown with Hibs at Hampden this evening but he admitted he is also plotting to safeguard Celtic’s long-term future.
James Forrest and Scott Bain this week penned new deals and the manager revealed he’s now determined to secure stars such as Callum McGregor and Kristoffer Ajer on extended contracts.
Lennon said: “I’m very happy to get him and Scott tied up. I’m happy to be working with him for the next few years and I’m happy for him.
“He’s made great progress since he’s been here, so I’m really pleased.
“I’ve got three top quality goalkeepers, and I think he’ll relish the environment.
“We’re talking to one or two players, so hopefully we can get those contracts over the line soon.
“Callum is one of them, he’s an important player and it would be good to get him tied down too.
“It’s important to have your core, and the core players here have been outstanding for the last three seasons.
“Jamesy has been a fundamental part of that, as has Scott, and it just gives a feel-good factor to the club when you have boys committing themselves to the club on long-term contracts.
“Kris Ajer is one we might look at.
“He’s played nearly all the games since I’ve been in and I’m very happy with him as well.
“These players are obviously assets too, and there will be admirers out there, no question, with the way they are playing.
“So, it’s a bit of protection for us as well as settling down the players if they are getting agitated by a little bit of speculation.”
