
# Inhaler are the Dubliners who want rock to rage again – and shake off those U2 comparisons

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:02:29+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/blogs/nme-radar/inhaler-dublin-band-interview-2019-2564286)

Inhaler are feeling a little worse for wear, though they make very valiant efforts to hide it. Last night, the band played a particularly rowdy show at the Sebright Arms, sharing a bill with Limerick’s very own Whenyoung. Decked out in leather jackets, quiffs akimbo and sunglasses firmly on, they swagger into NME HQ the next day in a neat formation. In unison, shades are tucked away into pockets, and very politely, they request strong black coffee, please, if you’re absolutely sure that it’s not too much trouble.
“It might’ve been a little bit too Irish…” starts bassist Rob Keating tactfully, caffeine fix now in hand. “The pints started flowing,” nods his bandmate Ryan McMahon sagely. “Eli asked if there were any Irish people at the show on stage, and this group cheered,” Rob recalls. “He was like, ‘oh no, there’s already too many of us.’”
They’ll just have to get used to it. From Dublin and far beyond, there’s a steady stream of young Irish bands making serious ripples internationally: The Murder Capital, Fontaines D.C, Just Mustard, Inhaler, Silverbacks, and the aforementioned Whenyoung to name just a few. “We grew up trying to start something, and not really seeing anyone else do it, “ Rob says. “Once we got our fake IDs sorted, and went to see all these bands we realised there was a scene out there.”
There’s something of a domino effect taking hold in the rock world. “In the UK, too, with bands like IDLES and Shame,” Ryan points out. Inhaler went to see the latter play in Queenstown as 18-year-old punters, and the show turned their worlds upside down. “Rage is such a big thing when you’re a teenager, and rage just left rock music for a while,” lead singer Eli Hewson points out. “That’s what bands like Shame are bringing back. When you see them it’s just pure rage.”
