
# Mesut Ozil used to love ladies and knew how to fire it at a nightclub

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:15:03+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/mesut-ozil-used-love-ladies-20813930)

Mesut Ozil loves nightclubs and could not wait to get into the party scene as soon as he arrived in London.
That is the claim from ex-Arsenal striker Nicklas Bendtner who describes himself as a "concierge" for his former team mates in his explosive new book.
Bendtner says he took Ozil out into London THREE times in his first week after he arrived at Arsenal in 2013 despite the former Germany international angrily denying Real Madrid sold him because he went out partying too much.
Ozil, 31, is now married to former Miss Turkey Amine Gulse but Bendtner says he "loved ladies" and knew "how to fire it" on a night out.
Danish international Bendtner, in his new book Both Sides which is out Tuesday, writes: "The squad does not resemble itself anymore. Robin van Persie has been sold off in the offensive and has come in two Frenchmen, Olivier Giroud and Yaya Sanogo.
"The Germans Lukas Podolski and Mesut Ozil have also joined. Ozil is a game distributor and should have been at odds with Real Madrid because he was partying too much. He denies that, of course, stubbornly, also in the media.
"On his second day at Arsenal, he visits me for training. 'I hear you're the go-to guy if you want to look around in the nightlife?' 'It's not entirely wrong,' I reply.
"Without going into detail you can safely say that there is something about the talk. Ozil is a bachelor, and during his first week in London we take the trip three times.
"He does not act crazy or particularly demanding when he is out, but he knows how to fire it. And like so many others, he loves ladies. No doubt about it.
"Many people describe the guy as a bit arrogant, but that's not my experience. He is just quiet by nature and it can confuse people. That he holds both sides. I caught it. There are always two sides. Least.
"Now Ozil is not to be wandered than he is. There are so many who make use of my local knowledge. I almost become a kind of concierge for my teammates.
"If they can't get a table at a restaurant, I'll call and get a few extra chairs. If they want to be on the guest list for a club with strict membership requirements, I'll call and make it happen."
