
# Sundowns frustrated by Baroka in goalless draw

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:34:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/sundowns-frustrated-by-baroka-in-goalless-draw-20191106)

Cape Town - Mamelodi Sundowns were made to endure a frustrating evening in the Absa Premiership as they were held to a goalless draw by an obstinate Baroka outfit at the Peter Mokaba Stadium on Wednesday night.
The hosts started the game on the front foot, putting the visiting Sundowns under sustained pressure in the opening 15 minutes of play.
Despite their dominance, Baroka were unable to fashion very many chances, with their only noteworthy chance coming in the 12th minute as Tshediso Patjie forced Downs keeper Denis Onyango into action with a hopeful shot from an acute angle.
Sundowns hit back with a chance of their own six minutes later, but it came to nothing as Tebogo Langerman drilled a left-footed shot into the side netting.
However, the remainder of the first half failed to produce any real goal-scoring chances as both defences held firm.
Sundowns redoubled their efforts after the half-time break, but were forced to resort to long-range efforts as a compact Baroka defence left very little room to manoeuvre.
And, as the second half wore on, it was clear that Baroka were looking to sit back and soak up the pressure before hitting Sundowns on the break.
The visitors continued to prod and probe, and very nearly got the breakthrough they were looking for in the 76th minute after Baroka keeper Elvis Chipezeze spilled Mosa Lebusa's shot back into the danger area. However, the defence was alert to the danger, clearing the ball upfield.
Baroka earned a free-kick in a good position in the 85th minute, just 15 yards outside the box, but the resulting shot on goal by Gerald Phiri flew straight into the defensive wall.
The hosts were reduced to ten men in the 90th minute following Matome Kgoetyane's nasty challenge on Langerman, but there simply wasn't enough time for the visitors to make use of their numerical advantage as they were forced to settle for a share of the points.
