
# Governors Anne Waiguru, Kivuta Kibwana Join Raila In Kibra To Drum Up Support For Imran Okoth

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:59:10+00:00**

Author: **Francis Muli**

Original: [KahawaTungu](https://www.kahawatungu.com/2019/11/03/governors-join-raila-kibra-imran/)

Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and her Makueni counterpart Kivuta Kibwana have declared their support for Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) candidate in Kibra by-election Imran Okoth.
The two joined a host of other leaders including Kamba Governors Charity Ngilu (Kitui) and Alfred Mutua (Machakos) who pledged their support for Imran on Saturday ahead of the by-election slated for November 7.
The four Governors were present in the ODM rallies at Woodley grounds in Kibra on Sunday afternoon.
Waiguru, who a few years ago couldn’t see eye to eye with Odinga over his stance on her alleged involvement in the National Youth Service (NYS) scandal, joins other leaders allied to Jubilee party who have declared their support for Imran including nominated Member of Parliament Maina Kamanda.
She defended her decision saying the handshake between Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta had brought peace and tranquillity in the country hence her support for Imran.
Waiguru, a former ally of Deputy President William Ruto, was for a long term seen as a potential running mate of Ruto in the 2022 presidential election.
Read: Gideon Moi Joins Kibra By-election Campaigns, Pledges Support For ODM’s Imran Okoth
Raila’s move to woo leaders from other tribes has been termed by many as one aimed at putting together another political alliance ahead of 2022 succession politics following the death of National Super Alliance (NASA).

        DP Ruto’s Jibe
      
Following the Saturday declaration by the governors, the DP slammed ODM saying Jubilee’s McDonald Mariga candidature had sent shivers among the leaders prompting Odinga to seek support from other tribes in order to defend the seat.
DP Ruto, who was speaking in Marigat Baringo County, said ODM had sensed defeat in Kibra.
“If you see someone asking for help in the bedroom, you should know that things are thick. Isn’t it?” said Ruto.
Read Also: We’ll Not Be Intimidated, IEBC Rubbishes ODM’s Calls For “Complete” Kibra Voter Register
“It should be every man for himself in the bedroom. If you see a man asking for reinforcement, things are not going well.”
Kibra has been Raila’s political bedrock for decades now and pundits believe a loss would be a blow to his 2022 Presidential bid and political image.
Other candidates in the race are Amani National Congress’ Eliud Owala, Ford Kenya’s Eng. Khamisi Butichi and several independent candidates eyeing the seat.
The seat fell vacant following the demise Imran’s brother, Ken Okoth, who succumbed to colorectal cancer in July.
