
# Audi A4 facelift launched at Rs 42 lakh

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:35:00+00:00**

Author: **Jaiveer Mehra**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/audi-a4-facelift-launched-at-rs-42-lakh-414724)

Called the A4 Quick Lift, the updated luxury sedan gets styling tweaks, added equipment and is available with a 1.4-litre, turbo-petrol engine.
Audi has launched an A4 facelift in India priced at Rs 42 lakh for the Premium Plus trim and Rs 45.55 lakh for the fully loaded Technology trim. The carmaker is calling the updated model the A4 Quick Lift. Available solely with the 1.4-litre, turbo-petrol unit from the model it replaces, the updated luxury sedan comes with cosmetic updates to the exterior and a revised equipment list.
 
Cosmetic changes include revised front and rear bumpers along with revised alloy wheel designs. Changes to the cabin are minimal.
 
Commenting on the model, Balbir Singh Dhillon, head of Audi India said, “The Audi A4 Quick Lift has undergone styling and feature changes including a new bumper on the front and rear. In addition, Auto Park Assist comes as standard on the Technology variant.”
 
Other equipment offered on the fully loaded A4 includes a three-zone auto climate control, Audi's virtual cockpit digital instrument cluster, an electric sunroof, powered front seats with memory function for the driver, front and rear parking sensors, and a reverse camera.
 
The A4 facelift is available with a 150hp, 1.4-litre, turbo-petrol motor powering the front wheels via a 7-speed automatic gearbox. There's no diesel engine on offer and it is not known if Audi will introduce one after the BS6 norms come into effect.
 
The updated A4 rivals the likes of the new BMW 3 Series, Jaguar XE and the Mercedes-Benz C-class.
 
Interestingly, this is not the only facelift for the A4. Audi revealed a second facelift for the luxury sedan earlier this year with more comprehensive updates and new engine options, a model that is yet to make it to our shores.
 

        All prices, ex-showroom, India
      
