
# 'Housefull 4' box office collection Day 12: The Akshay Kumar starrer continues with its successful run on its second Tuesday

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:45:50+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/housefull-4-box-office-collection-day-12-the-akshay-kumar-starrer-continues-with-its-successful-run-on-its-second-tuesday/articleshow/71934151.cms)

Dubbed as the comedy entertainer of the year, Farhad Samji directorial 'Housefull 4' starring Akshay Kumar in the lead role has continued its successful run at the box office on its second day. The film which features an ensemble star cast looks all set to post an excellent second-week figure, among the top of the year.

        
          Housefull 4 Movie Review : Not so full of comedy
        
      
As per the latest report on the Boxofficeindia.com, on Tuesday, the film has raked in Rs 4.75 crore on its twelfth day at the box office. The film has managed to collect a total of Rs 177.11 crore in twelve days at the box office.
The film could finish the third-highest collecting film of all time in the Gujarat / Saurashtra circuit after 'Bahubali - The Conclusion' and 'Golmaal Again'. The film might collect Rs 30 crore in terms of lifetime collections from the circuit.

        Read Also:
        Did you know Boman Irani was the first choice to play Ranjeet's character in 'Housefull 4', deets inside
      
'Housefull 4' looks sure to be the highest grosser film of Akshay Kumar and will probably achieve the feat in the third weekend. The next two weeks will determine the lifetime collection of the film.
Directed by Farhad Samji, ‘Housefull 4’ boasts of an ensemble star cast that includes, Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon, Riteish Deshmukh, Kriti Kharbanda, Bobby Deol, Pooja Hegde in the lead roles. The film is the fourth installment of the hit comedy franchise. The film hits the screens on October 25 and clashed at the box office with Rajkummar Rao's 'Made In China' and Taapsee Pannu-Bhumi Pednekar's 'Saand Ki Aankh'.
