
# You can make £280 extra from the general election - no qualifications needed

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:49:28+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/you-can-make-280-extra-20822242)

A general election is looming - on December 12 millions of people will be called to polling booths across the UK to cast their votes for the next Government.
It's a great time to check you're registered to vote - a move that could also add hundreds of pounds to your bank balance by boosting your credit score - but that's not the only  way to cash in.
That's because if you're free on the day of the vote itself there are hundreds of jobs going and there are no qualifications needed.
By signing up as a poll clerk, you could earn hundreds, by helping out with the election at schools and public spaces all over the country.
You can register for these roles by popping into your local civic centre - if there are no vacancies left, you can pop your name down on the waiting list instead.
Poll clerks and presiding officers are needed to help and oversee the setting up of stations and databases on the day itself.
These workers are required right throughout the day - from 7am-10pm, and possibly around 45 minutes earlier to set up.
Staff are not permitted to leave the premises during polling hours in order to maintain the secrecy of the vote. You must not wear any colours relating to any Political Party.
Other roles include counting assistants, which are needed from midnight onwards, to gather up the votes, count them and recount where necessary.
Runners are also required to collect ballot boxes from polling stations and take them to be counted - a side hustle that could make you a little extra cash on the day.
The good news is anyone can apply for these roles - you don't need to be tied to a party or working for the Government to apply.
However, for obvious reasons, you cannot apply if you've worked for a political party or candidate in the election.
To sign up, you'll need to contact your local council to see if it's recruiting.
 
This varies by council, however some of the local authorities we've seen recruiting  are willing to pay a reasonable sum for your time.
Croydon Council's current fee for poll clerks is £255, which includes a £30 fee for the completion of training beforehand.
Tonbridge & Malling Borough Council is offering £185 for poll clerks (including travel and training) and £280 for a presiding officer to oversee the process. Counting assistants can earn £10 an hour.
Bristol Council will pay its clerks £113 and counting assistants £80 for the day, while Hart Council will pay presiding officers £255 and £160 to the day's poll clerks. All other assistants can earn £14 to £17 an hour.
Gloucester City Council will also pay poll clerks £134.00 and £216.00 for presiding officers.
In Richmondshire, North Yorkshire, you could pocket £214 as a presiding officer and £130 as a poll clerk, plus £10 an hour for training beforehand.
