
# Leonardo DiCaprio meets Greta Thunberg calling her ‘leader of our time’

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:52:05+00:00**

Author: **Olivia Petter**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/leonardo-dicaprio-greta-thunberg-instagram-climate-change-photo-a9182016.html?utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter)

Leonardo DiCaprio has praised Greta Thunberg after the two met to discuss their commitment to fighting climate change.
On Friday, the actor uploaded two photographs on Instagram showing himself sat beside Thunberg in a garden.
“There are few times in human history where voices are amplified at such pivotal moments and in such transformational ways – but @GretaThunberg has become a leader of our time,” DiCaprio wrote in the caption.
“History will judge us for what we do today to help guarantee that future generations can enjoy the same liveable planet that we have so clearly taken for granted.”
The Wolf of Wall Street star went on to describe how he hopes world leaders see Thunberg’s message as a “wake-up call”.
DiCaprio continued: “It is because of Greta, and young activists everywhere that I am optimistic about what the future holds.
“It was an honour to spend time with Greta.”
The actor added that this is marks the beginning of a working relationship with Thunberg to amplify their respective environmental work. 
“She and I have made a commitment to support one another,” he concluded, “in hopes of securing a brighter future for our planet.”
The post has already garnered more than three million likes, with thousands of comments praising the duo.
One person described Thunberg and DiCaprio as an “unstoppable team” while many others described them as “inspirational”. 
