
# Amakhosi Star: It’s No Different For Sundowns & Pirates…

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/kaizer-chiefs-aren-t-treating-chippa-united-any-differently/666838)

Kaizer Chiefs’ run of form in all competitions is their best in several years after seeing off both Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates, but one star says those games are no different.

        Read: Five Chiefs Internationals Set To Leave
      
Fans of the Glamour Boys were delighted to see them beat Sundowns 2-0 in the Absa Premiership before kicking the Buccaneers out of the Telkom Knockout this past weekend, but for Ernst Middendorp and his players it’s very much a case of being just another game.
For that reason, one of Chiefs’ new signings this season, Yagan Sasman, has explained that this evening’s game against Chippa United is just as important, also outlining why they should be wary of the Chilli Boys despite their position at the bottom of the league table.
Speaking to Chiefs’ official website, the defender said, “We are taking this game as seriously as any other games… We are preparing for it in the same way as we have in our last games against Sundowns and Pirates. We are looking to get as many points as we can before the FIFA International break, because we want to build a lead over the rest of the pack.
“I think losing to Sundowns will make them more determined to want to get a result against us, but every team when they face Chiefs they want to win, and they treat it as a big fixture. They come out guns blazing, and we will expect nothing less. 
“All season long we have been taking things one game at a time. Right now, Chippa is our focus we are not really thinking beyond that.”

        Read: Amakhosi’s Big Derby Decision…
      
Sasman has come into the side recently after a slow start to his career at Naturena, however he now appears to have made a good claim for a regular starting berth under Middendorp’s tutelage, and is expected to feature once again this evening in Port Elizabeth.  

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
