
# Seven Games In, What Do We Know About Kyrie Irving And The Brooklyn Nets?

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Larry Fleisher**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/larryfleisher/2019/11/05/seven-games-in-what-do-we-know-about-kyrie-irving-and-the-brooklyn-nets/)

On July 25, 1990, the New York Mets carried a 10-3 lead into the bottom of the ninth against the Philadelphia Phillies at Veteran’s Stadium. The score wound up being 10-9 and when the final out was recorded Hall of Fame radio announcer Bob Murphy, the Mets win the (darn) thing by a score of 10-9.Which us brings us to the present as it pertains to the Nets, who are off to an uneven 3-4 start in its new era of having Kyrie Irving as its star player after the stunning free agent coup that netted him along with Kevin Durant.
After nearly blowing 20-point leads, allowing 48 points in the third quarter, the Nets wound up with a 10-point victory over the New Orleans Pelicans. It was the type of game that allowed all those involved on the Nets to exhale and one that prompted coach Kenny Atkinson to invoke all sorts of boxing references.
In case you’re keeping track, it was three punches Atkinson invoked when describing the latest night of hang onto your hats action in the early going. It was the combination, haymaker and left hooks, similar to what they took when Jae Crowder hit the buzzer-beating 3-pointer in Memphis last week.
Now the Nets will have three days of practice before jetting off to Portland for a five-city road trip. Practice time has been scarce between the trip to China coming shortly before the regular-season opener to Minnesota.
“It’s really important that we utilize this time before we go on this 10-day road trip, five teams that are pretty good in our league,” Irving said. “A great test to go on the road trip for that long – just great team building and preparation before we go on the trip.”
Seven games hardly reveal much about any team in any sport, football being the exception. But here’s what we know so far?
Irving is really good, maybe even better than believed.
Irving’s got a dazzling array of tricks, can score in almost any situation, which is clearly a good thing given his usage rate of 33.8 percent. Putting aside any concerns about his moodiness, he might even be better than believed and that’s not just with scoring.
Yes, he scored 39 points and has a 50-point game, but did you notice his pass to Joe Harris down the stretch. Irving got the ball and began to drive to the rim. Upon encountering two defenders, he threw a straight dart to Harris, the kind of pass that looked like a fastball down the middle of the plate. Harris caught it and hit the game-winning 3-pointer.
It is the kind of winning plays the Nets did before heading three days of practice time but soak in these notes about Irving.
      —-His 222 points, 43 rebound and 54 assists are the most through a team’s seven games since Oscar Robertson with the Cincinnati Royals in 1965-66.
      —-His 222 points are the most in Nets history through the first seven games.
      —-His seven straight 20-point games match the most in the Brooklyn era and are one shy of a franchise record.
But what else do we know about the Nets other than what the numbers tell us?
We know they can score, which is hardly breaking news. The Nets average 121 points in a league where 15 teams average at least 110.
We know they can rebound. Aided by the additions of Taurean Prince and DeAndre Jordan to an extent, the Nets are averaging 49.9 rebounds.
We know they can shoot 3-pointers. The Nets are one of three teams making 40 percent from 3-point range.
Those are the good things. Then come some shaky elements such as ballhandling and defense.
The 25.5 turnovers per game are a disturbing number as are the 18 percent turnover rate, which somehow is not impacting the third-best pace in the league at 107.3.
Then there’s defense. The Nets head into this trip with a defensive rating of 108.6, which ranks in the bottom third of the league. They are one of four teams allowing at least 120 points, among eight teams allowing 50 points per game in the paint as evidenced by how they were unable to stop Andre Drummond Saturday in Detroit.
During his on-court interview Irving said: “Be patient with us, we’ll get there.”
Back in 2013-14 when the Nets were figuring out how to merge Paul Pierce, Kevin Garnett with Deron Williams, Joe Johnson and Brook Lopez, then coach Jason Kidd was fond of saying constantly how it was a process.
That process took two months before the Nets engineered an electrifying turnaround, won 44 games, and a classic seventh game in Toronto.
That process also did not materialize much beyond that season. By the following season, the Nets held a losing record and were ushered out of the playoffs in the first round by Atlanta. Then came the gutting followed by the rebuild which led the Nets to the point where Irving and Durant wanted to sign.
Very few teams with new superstars bolt out of the gate quickly. Perhaps the exception is the 2007-08 Celtics after acquiring Garnett and Ray Allen but it’s rare. Even the first year of the Miami Heat with LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh were a pedestrian 9-8 before taking off.
It’s possible might know more about the Nets when they return from their longest road trip. But then again it’s possible we might not. Eventually this is a team barring major injuries will be in the postseason and a team that does not play in spurts like it has at various points in each game.
