
# Tau Benched As Brugge Struggle Against PSG

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:56:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/uefa-champions-league/uefa-champions-league-report-paris-saint-germain-v-club-brugge-06-november-2019/666914)

Percy Tau was benched as Club Brugge's UEFA Champions League knockout stage hopes were dented by Paris Saint-Germain on Wednesday evening.

        UEFA Champions League
      
Result: Paris Saint-Germain 1-0 Club Brugge
Date: 06 November 2019
Venue: Parc de Princes

        
          Click through the gallery to see images from PSG's win over Brugge.
        
      
Tau started in the 5-0 defeat to PSG a couple weeks ago, but had to settle for a spot on the bench in return fixture while Kylian Mbappe, who netted a hat-trick in Brugge, started for the hosts.
After a relatively quiet opening, PSG finally got he breakthrough on 20 minutes as the influential Angel di Maria flicked the ball into the path of Mauro Icardi, who fired home from close range.'
Brugge, meanwhile, struggled to gather any momentum going forward and had to resort to efforts from distance, none of which seriously troubled PSG shot-stopper Keylor Navas.
Thomas Tuchel's men continued to push for more goals as the first half went on, but they were unable to find a way past Simone Mignolet in the latter stages of the stanza.
Navas was called upon shortly after the halftime break as the PSG shot-stopper produced a superb double save to deny Emmanuel 'Dennis' Bonaventure and David Okereke on 50 minutes.
With the hosts struggling to bag another goal in the second half, Tuchel introduced Edinson Cavani in place of Mauro Icardi with 20 minutes.
Three minutes later, Brugge were awarded a penalty when Thiago Silva brought down Mbaye Diagne, who stepped up to take the spot-kick, however his effort was saved by Navas.
Brugge did have a couple more sights at goal in the closing stages of the second half, but Navas and the PSG defence ensured the hosts walked away with victory and a clean sheet that seals a a spot in the last 16.
