
# Voice of the Mirror: Cruel hospital car park fees represent Tory broken promises

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:09:44+00:00**

Author: **Mirror.co.uk**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/voice-mirror-cruel-hospital-car-20792506)

Five years ago the Conservatives pledged to reform hospital car parking charges. It proved yet another broken promise.
Patients, families and NHS staff are still enduring the stress and inconvenience of paying to park at a hospital.
Figures show firms operating the car parks raked in £272million last year – up from £226million in 2017. Scandalously, £86million of this came from the pockets of NHS workers.
And what’s more – some 169 trusts charge disabled blue badge holders to park.
This is a stealth tax on the sick and those who care for them.
 
Nurses should not have to break off from their shift to feed a meter, nor patients and families with enough to deal with be burdened with extra worry about a fine.
NHS trusts continue to hike the parking fees because they have been starved of cash by this Tory government.
If we had a properly funded health service they would not have to resort to finding other sources of revenue.
The Tories cannot be trusted to keep their word and they cannot be trusted on the NHS.
 
The Brexit Party leader likes to present himself as the man of the people standing up against the establishment
In reality Nigel Farage is a privately educated former stockbroker touting a nasty and dangerous right-wing agenda – he’s spoken at rallies for far right parties in Europe, dismissed climate change as a “scam” and backed the privatisation of the NHS.
He is hell-bent on pushing for a no-deal Brexit that will put countless people out of work and cause economic carnage.
The fact this cut-price Donald Trump wants to form an alliance with the Tories speaks volumes about both parties.
Whatever the result of the Rugby World Cup, England have done themselves and their country proud.
Throughout the tournament they’ve proved where there’s a ruck, there’s class.
