
# Jordan Henderson in contention for Liverpool clash with Genk despite missing training

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:15:08+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jordan-henderson-contention-liverpool-clash-20813022)

Liverpool captain Jordan Henderson remains in contention for the club's Champions League clash with Genk, despite missing training on Monday.
The defending European champions welcome the Belgian outfit to Anfield on Tuesday night as they take another step closer to securing qualification from Group E.
Despite playing all 90 minutes of the 2-1 win over Aston Villa on Saturday, Henderson was not present as Jurgen Klopp's side trained in front of the cameras at Melwood ahead of their second meeting with Felice Mazzu's team.
The skipper's absence raised some eyebrows, but the Liverpool Echo reports that he did not miss the training session due to injury and could feature in the Reds' midfield.
According to the publication, the 29-year-old was taking part in a separate workout inside the club's West Derby's training base as he underwent some final preparations.
Liverpool can give their hopes of reaching the knockout stages a serious boost with three points on Merseyside.
Klopp's men are currently second in the group with six points from their first three games and currently hold a three-point lead over Red Bull Salzburg, who travel to leaders Napoli.
Despite featuring in the club's first two European games this season, Henderson was left on the bench during their first meeting with Genk last month.
Klopp chose to start with an experimental midfield for the 4-1 win in Belgium, with Fabinho being joined by Naby Keita and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, who scored twice.
And although he insisted he will not be influenced by the looming Premier League clash with Manchester City on Sunday, the Liverpool boss suggested there would be a few alterations.
He told liverpoolfc.com : “The problem is not now the game on Sunday [against Manchester City] because between Tuesday and Sunday is a lot of time, but of course we have to think a little bit about Saturday to Tuesday – that’s the shorter break between the games, so we have to think."
“But it’s all about having the best formation for this game, nothing else. It was always like this and will always be like this. How I said, we respect them a lot and we knew how difficult it was there. Yes, we scored the goals but it was not the best performances of the last 20 years of us and one of the reasons [for that] was Genk, to be honest.
“So, we will hopefully have a couple of fresh legs in. It’s clear that we want that, but it’s not like we will do so many changes that you cannot recognise our team anymore and think ‘who is that?’."
