
# Hotel du Vin Birmingham reviewed - is this really one of the best places for Sunday roast?

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Sanjeeta Bains, https://www.facebook.com/sanjeetabainsbm/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/food-drink-news/hotel-du-vin-birmingham-reviewed-17118352)

Hotel du Vin, along with The Red Lion in the Jewellery Quarter were recently named as two of the best places in the UK for a Sunday roast - named 41st and 16th best, respectively.
I had already tried the impressive Red Lion roast - albeit way back in 2017. But now I had good reason to visit Hotel du Vin for its Sunday offering.
The Bistro du Vin restaurant at the Church street hotel made the Travel 7 UK top 50 thanks to a four course lunch menu which includes a lavish sounding French Market Table buffet table.
So,  is this Sunday lunch as sensational as it sounds?
Hotel du Vin is easily one of Birmingham’s most atmospheric and characterful venues for Sunday lunch. 
The hotel is housed in the old Birmingham & West Midlands Eye Hospital and includes its popular restaurant, The Bistro.
The historical interior elements of this Victorian building combined with the olde worlde faded decor adds up to a simply perfect lunch and dinner setting.
The shelves and window sills adorned with empty wine bottles as well as paintings crammed on the walls, certainly helps set the scene for an indulgent afternoon of French bistro eating and drinking.
The Sunday lunch is available from 12 - 4pm and I opted for a 3pm booking.
When my friend and I  arrived it was packed out - with a hub of low level talking and tinkering of laughter adding to the buzzy bistro atmosphere. Sadly I heard no French voices, but I definitely felt the Joie de Vivre.
 

         
      
The Sunday lunch menu consists of four courses.
We had soup of the day for starters -  a bowl of warming carrot soup.  It had a rich colour but tasted very claggy due to the unfortunate oil slick on top of the soup.
There was no need for an olive oil dip for the bread that accompanied the soup,  that was for sure.
The starter was not a success but this wasn't such a big deal considering we had three other courses to look forward to including 'the centrepiece of Sunday lunch...The Market Table'.
Basically this was buffet time.
We took our plates around the corner to another room where the French market table was laid out.
There was nothing basic about this buffet. 
Spread out on the table was a feast of options - hot and cold smoked salmon, shell on prawns, smoked mackerel pâté, Cumberland Scotch eggs, parfait, Serrano ham on the bone, a selection of charcuterie, grilled vegetables and pickles, artisan breads and salads. Everything looked gorgeous.
To top it off there was an excellent choice of sauces, dips and dressings.
Both my friend and I were polite about how much we piled on our plates - although she did a better job at being restrained.
As it was a late lunch booking  I had to alert a waiter to refill a couple of the platters but this was swiftly done.
Once seated back in the restaurant area we got stuck in gleefully.
Everything tasted fresh and flavoursome.  My friend ooed and ahhed over the mackerel pate so much I had to have a bite - it was rather wonderful - very smooth and light.
After we finished, the waiter who took our plates away said he was surprised we had not gone back for seconds “because there is no rush.”  If only we had known!  I made a mental note at that moment to make an earlier lunchtime booking next time so I could really take my time to enjoy the market table.
For the third course - the main course - there was a choice of nine dishes.
From the meat menu you can choose from dishes including pie du jour, steak frites and roast du Vin.  The seafood menu includes fish and chips, smoked haddock and Parmesan omelette.
Mushroom buckwheat pancakes are one of the veggie options.   
Naturellement, I went for the roast du Vin. There was a choice of two roast dishes - rib of beef from Aberdeenshire or Normandy chicken with roast potatoes, vegetable and Yorkshire pudding.
My friend opted for the fish of the day - which was trout but as she has a mild nut intolerance she was less than impressed when it arrived smothered in a mountain of almonds. Our waitress was very apologetic for not giving us this information beforehand.
I also had cause for complaint - my Yorkshire pudding was burnt and had to be sent back. I was perplexed as to why the waitress thought it was okay to serve up. But not perplexed enough to let it put a dampener on my afternoon.
Both my friend and I were still happily sated from the bistro’s buffet bonanza, so we poured ourselves another glass of red and chatted until the waitress returned with the trout - sans nuts and my less burnt pud.
Overall,  the Sunday roast was very nice, mainly thanks to all the trimmings.
There was too much fat on my beef, which made it look a little unappetising, but the meat itself was flavoursome and well cooked.
And it was served up with crispy roasties, nicely roasted vegetables and a very rich, boozy gravy.
Made with the broth of chicken and beef bones and red wine stock - it was quite possibly the most delicious gravy I’ve ever tasted.
 
Over the table my friend enjoyed her fish - now she could see it - as well as the sharing plate of veg and roasties.
Dessert choices included creme brulee -  baked vanilla custard glazed under sugar,mousse au chocolat - chocolate mousse with Chantilley cream or artisan cheeses.
My friend opted for the peach melba sundae which we had both spotted on other diners’s table and agreed looked ‘epic.’
My heart skipped a beat at the sight of the cheese trolley rolling towards me. This was a particularly stand out Sunday highlight.
Even better,  was how the waiter took his time going through all the different types of cheeses before letting us choose our favourite three.
Choices include Shropshire Blue, Keltic Gold and Maida Vale - a gorgeous soft milk cheese with an interesting beer flavour due to the rind being washed with ale.
And there was no supplementary charge for opting for the cheese trolley instead of a dessert.
Quel surprise - Bistro du Vin's wine menu was magnifique.  We sensibly opted to forego a bottle for a carafe of the Chateau Bauduc - Bordeaux Rouge, HdV Selection France for £22.
Service was friendly and efficient throughout. The expert service during the cheese trolley demo - which also included an explanation of the various accompanying crackers meant that the nutty fish and cremated Yorkshire Pudding debacle was long forgotten and forgiven.
£75.98 for two four course meals and one carafe of wine to share.
The Sunday lunch at Hotel du Vin  is an experience which should not be missed. But its new accolade for being one of the best places for Sunday Roasts in the UK list is slightly misleading.
This is a fabulous place for an overall Sunday lunch experience.
There was far too much fat on my beef to make it as good as The Red Lion roast for me. However all the other trimmings including their rich gravy was delicious.
To judge the Sunday roast here, you have to judge the whole four course menu - including a blooming all you can buffet and cheese trolley ( as a fromage fan this was a massive plus for me) all for £26.95 per head.
And special mention to the unique Hotel du Vin setting - that did make me feel I was enjoying lunch somewhere far pricier.
When it comes to daytime dining, there is a sense of occasion about Bistro du Vin, that not many restaurants in Brum can compete with. 
Just make sure you make an early booking so you can really savour your Sunday afternoon feast.
Service 3/5
Atmosphere 5/5
Food 4/5
Value 5/5

        Hotel du Vin, 25 Church Street, B3 2NR
      
