
# 10 Romantic Gestures That Can Make Your Relationship Stronger Than Ever

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/inspiration-relationships/10-romantic-gestures-that-can-make-your-relationship-stronger-than-ever-794644/)

Most of us want to grow old with someone but studies show that marriage rates are declining, which has made many of us think that a long-lasting relationship is a myth or simply not worth it. However, that’s not true at all. Love and relationships are complicated, but there are practical and easy romantic tips that we can put into practice to make sure we get the best of them.
Bright Side did some research and made a list of some romantic advice that can be the recipe to a strong, happy relationship.
Sharing a small dream makes you hold hope together for the same goal. Think about saving money for a trip to Disneyland with the kids or a new car. Maybe you’re hoping to renovate your room or are planning a family reunion at home. Either way, sharing and working toward hopes and dreams is a positive way to keep you connected and happy.
If you find that you always forget what they wanted for their birthday, this might be the solution to that problem and more. Each time your partner talks about a new restaurant they’d like to visit, a movie they’ve been expecting to premiere, or something they wish to buy, write it down. You can keep it as a note on your cell phone and look at it whenever you want to take them out on a date or buy them an anniversary gift.
After the first months of a relationship, sparks fly less frequently and you may begin to get used to your partner. It doesn’t mean you don’t love them anymore, but you’re more stable now. True love is not only passion, but it’s also an act of will where you choose to be with that person every day. But that doesn’t mean sparks shouldn’t still fly every once in a while. Surprise your partner with their favorite dessert, prepare them a hot bath after a hard day at work, or buy tickets to that movie they want to see (which you wrote down in your notebook).
If you’re arguing and realize things are getting just a bit out of control, go to different rooms for 20 minutes. This will give you both some time to calm down and more importantly, think and reflect on the fact that you may have contributed in some way to the situation that’s making you fight. After 20 minutes have passed, bring some humility to the table and tell each other where you think you were wrong, apologize, and try to find a solution to the problem together.
If you sometimes think you always do what your soulmate wants to do, try this method. Say you want to go to the theater. One of you can pick 3 movies they’d like to see and the other can select the one they like the most from those 3 options. That way, you worked together to make the decision and both chose what to do.
If we spend all the free time we’ve got with our partner, chances are there’s something we’re not doing that we’d love to do on our own. Think about getting a pedicure, a coffee with a girlfriend, or going on a date with your mom. We need to spend time separately to recharge, especially introverts. That way, you’ll have the opportunity to miss your partner, recharge, and go back to them with a fresher attitude.
In-laws can be challenging to handle, but your soulmate adores them and would love it if you got along with them. Try to ease things up by being the one that always tells them the positive news. You can be the one who invites them for dinner, who thanks them for that unique vase you got for Christmas, and who accepts the invitation for that Sunday lunch. Let your partner handle the negative communication and be the one who apologizes for not wanting to attend bingo night or for not lending them the car for the weekend.
Create something together, just the two of you, so you become experts at teamwork. We’re talking about something as simple as preparing a home-cooked meal, redecorating the house, or painting the front door. It’s important for you both to achieve something together. Maybe signing up for another language class or participating in a contest would be good.
Human touch is so powerful that it can communicate love without saying a word. What’s more, is cuddling releases oxytocin, also known as the “love hormone”. This substance makes you and your partner feel happy, safe, and connected — in short, it makes you feel in love. Take this moment to say thanks to your partner for another day next to them. This will not only make you value your soulmate more deeply but it will help you both feel more valued in return. Plus, studies show that expressing gratitude actually makes as happy.
Sometimes, take a day off from other things and spend some time with your partner doing what they love, even if it’s not something that interests you much. Then switch and have a day of your own. Both of you will get to know each other better and who knows, maybe you’ll pick up on a new hobby you can start practicing together.
Do you already practice any of these romantic tips? What’s your advice for keeping a relationship strong? Share your wisdom in the comment section!
Illustrated by Alena Sofronova for BrightSide.me
