
# Sam Burgess AVO based on 'false allegations', court told

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:36:11+00:00**

Author: **Australian Associated Press**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/06/sam-burgess-avo-based-on-false-allegations-court-told)


        The former South Sydney NRL captain is accused of intimidating his father-in-law Mitchell Hooke in October
      
An alleged dispute between the former South Sydney NRL captain Sam Burgess and his father-in-law is based on false allegations, Burgess’s lawyer has told a court.
The former South Sydney captain, who announced his retirement a week ago, is accused of intimidating Mitchell Hooke in October.
An interim apprehended domestic violence order, taken out on Burgess on Hooke’s behalf, is based on “false allegations”, Burgess’s lawyer Bryan Wrench told Moss Vale local court on Wednesday.
“There was no violence, no intimidation and no threats,” Wrench said of the alleged 19 October encounter at Glenquarry, south of Sydney.
“So far as an interim order is in place, we make no admissions and make denials.
“We know not to contact him especially when ... he made false allegations made about that day.”
Police have also charged Burgess, 30, with intimidation over the alleged Glenquarry incident. No one was injured.
The magistrate Mark Douglass adjourned the interim AVO to 18 December, when the charge will be mentioned in court for the first time.
Police served a brief of evidence, containing two statements, on Wrench in court.
Burgess, an England and Great Britain international, announced his retirement on 30 October, having failed to recover from a chronic shoulder injury that forced him to miss the Lions tour of New Zealand.
He played 182 games for Souths and was a Clive Churchill medallist, despite suffering a facial fracture in their drought-breaking 2014 NRL grand final win.
