
# IC helps quake-hit insurance claimants

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:09:25+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/05/ic-helps-quake-hit-insurance-claimants/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
INSURANCE claimants affected by destructive earthquakes in Mindanao will be assisted by the Insurance Commission (IC), which mobilized the “Agarang Proseso, Benepisyo ay Sigurado” program.
In a statement, IC’s Davao district office said that it has activated its disaster response mechanism to fast-track the processing and releasing of claims in Mindanao.
The program was earlier launched by the onsite Claims Action Centers (CAC), the Climbs Life and General Insurance Cooperative in Tacloban, Ormoc, and Cebu right after Supertyphoon Yolanda left the country in 2013.
In October 2019, the province of Cotabato suffered from three consecutive earthquakes that affected also the rest of the region. The first quake with magnitude 6.3 struck on October 16; the second with magnitude 6.6 on October 29; and the last, with magnitude 6.5, on October 31.
At least 22 people have been confirmed dead as of Monday from the series of earthquakes in Mindanao.
Commissioner Dennis B. Funa has required insurance firms to submit reports with the number and types of insurance claims filed, as well as amounts of claims paid with other pertinent information. “We requested insurance providers to relax claims requirements, such as documentary evidence and notices of loss for the victims of the earthquakes in Mindanao,” Funa said.
The IC said those who wish to seek assistance may visit the Insurance Commission Davao District on the third floor of Yap building, Quimpo Boulevard, Ecoland Davao.
People may also contact IC through its landiline number 082-327-3651.
