
# Asia’s aviation stakeholders gather in Manila for annual ‘Safety Day’ meet

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:00:10+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Manila Bulletin Business](https://business.mb.com.ph/2019/11/01/asias-aviation-stakeholders-gather-in-manila-for-annual-safety-day-meet/)

The Philippine chapter of the Asian Business Aviation Association (AsBAA), Asia’s non-profit representative body for the business aviation industry, will welcome to the Philippines prominent aviation personalities, regulators and other industry stakeholders when the association holds its 2019 Safety Day on Nov. 5, 2019.
 
To be held at the Manila Polo Club in Makati City, the 2019 AsBAA Safety Day will gather participants and speakers from around the world who represent aviation manufacturers, operators, financial, risk, legal and service providers.
Benjamin “Jay” Lopez, head of AsBAA-Philippines Chapter, said that as part of the association’s commitment to advocate the implementation of international standards, the AsBAA Safety Day will also provide the venue to discuss pressing topics affecting the industry. These include illegal and grey charters, safety and security cultures, emergency response planning, and in-flight medical emergencies.
“AsBAA’s Philippine Chapter has evolved and advanced, based on the needs of the local market; however, our mission remains to ensure a prosperous and safe industry ecosystem in the Philippines,” Lopez said.
“The local aviation sector is steadily growing, with our gross domestic product and local tourism numbers continuing to climb. We see great interest from foreign investors and from local entities to capitalize on the opportunities that business aviation represents here,” Lopez added.
“For three years, the AsBAA Philippine Chapter has received positive cooperation from the authorities to help bridge the gap between opportunity and reality. We are delighted to welcome the community back together once again for the AsBAA Philippine Safety Day 2019,” Lopez noted.
Capt. Jim Sydiongco, director general of the Civial Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP), and Capt. Donald Mendoza, CAAP deputy director general for Operation, together will share “Updates on Safety Management Systems from the Perspective of the Regulatory Authority”.
Harold “Randy” Gaston, a Fellow of the Society of Experimental Test Pilots (SETP), will deliver the keynote speech. A vice president for flight operations of Gulfstream, Gaston has more than 40 years of aviation experience, including 20 years at Gulfstream.
Kurt Edwards, director general of the International Business Aviation Council (IBAC), will discuss “Safety Management Systems”, while Carmelo L. Arcilla, executive director of the Philippine Civil Aeronautics Board, will explore “The Risks of Grey Charters”. On the other hand, Arlene Gentica, safety manager for Air Traffic Service at CAAP, will join the event to share more informative industry updates.
