
# Film industry reeling after provincial government cuts to incentives and grants

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:45:49+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Babych**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/film-industry-reeling-after-provincial-government-cuts-to-incentives-and-grants)

Significant cuts to incentives and grants for Alberta’s film industry — made public by the provincial government last month — will drive away producers and creators, a panel discussion heard Sunday.
More than 500 people from the industry filled a convention room to address concerns about the future of film in the province.
There will now be a funding cap of $10 million per project, which is up from the $7.5-million cap imposed by the previous government.  However, with a phase-out of screen-based production grants in exchange for a film tax credit, an over-subscription to the previous grant program, and an eight per cent drop in assistance on eligible expenditures, there wasn’t much hope in the room at the panel discussion.
Emily Barnett spoke about her career as a film worker and owner of a small film rental business. She hasn’t been in the film industry long, but she loves it. However, she’s torn between her home province and her career because the budget cuts will eliminate any room for job growth.
“This is my home and I’ve lived here since I was a child, and I don’t want to move away. I want to stay here and I want my government to get it. I want them to understand that making a fertile ground for an industry to come and do business here is . . . important,” said Barnett.
“There are economic benefits to giving tax incentives to film productions because they employ people,” she added. “I climbed the ladder in my career this year because we were a lot busier this year, which is due to the higher cap and higher number (of) productions happening here.”
Watching other provinces like B.C. and Manitoba grow their film industries is enticing to Barnett, who is considering leaving Alberta to concentrate on her career in film.
The meeting was organized by the Alberta Screen Industry Action Committee (ASIAC) which includes people from all levels of film production. Alberta has seen a growing film industry recently because crews in the province have earned a “world-class reputation” for being dedicated and talented, according to documentary producer Michael Jorgensen.
“You get off the plane here and it’s a no-brainer why people want to film here. It’s not only because of the location but it’s because of the crews, it’s because they have a world-class reputation that’s second to none,” said Jorgensen. “But now there’s not enough money in that fund for next year to introduce new producers because there’s not even enough money to support Alberta producers.”
Due to over-subscription from the previous grant-based program, new money for film tax credits will only be $15 million in the 2020-21 fiscal year, $30 million in 2021-22 and $45 million in 2022-23. It caps the programs at $45 million per year as the government makes the transition.
Local producer Mike Peterson said the province’s strong film crews could start leaving the province which could take years to rebuild. The gap in projects will lower Alberta’s competitiveness as crews and production companies move to B.C.
“I don’t know how many jobs that next year’s system can support but we’ll essentially be frozen out of projects for about a year,” said Peterson.
On Thursday, HDTV Productions announced it would be moving to B.C. after 37 years of operation in Alberta.
“This has not been an easy decision but the recent Alberta budget does not, in our opinion, reflect the commitment to diversification of the Alberta economy,” the release said.
Local producer Tom Cox brought a glimmer of hope to the meeting, telling the group this isn’t the first time cuts like this have hit the industry.
“This is absolutely crippling as well, but I think it’s important to recognize that each case was not done out of malice,” said Cox. “We tried to impart to the government the good news story which is, the more you invest the more money you make and 100 per cent of your investments return. It’s clear they’re trying to balance the budget now but I believe these cuts are done out of ignorance.”
ASIAC said it will continue to rally the government for support of the film industry because of the benefits it brings to the province, including job creation.
— With files from Jon Roe

        sbabych@postmedia.com
      
On Twitter: @BabychStephanie
