
# Avengers: Endgame Almost Had A Hilarious Ant-Man And The Wasp Reference

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:33:44+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2484109/avengers-endgame-almost-had-a-hilarious-ant-man-and-the-wasp-reference)

Written By

        CinemaBlend participates in affiliate programs with various companies. We may earn commission when you click on or make purchases via links.
      
Phase Three of the Marvel Cinematic Universe was a massive success by all accounts, as every single release was a critical and box office success. The final few rounds were especially important, as Avengers: Infinity War and Endgame changed the shared universe forever. In between those movies was Ant-Man and The Wasp, which revealed where Scott Lang was before during Thanos' assault. And it turns out that Endgame almost had a hilarious reference to Peyton Reed's second installment in the MCU.
Ant-Man and The Wasp was a breathe of fresh air and levity, following the grim ending of Avengers: Infinity War. We followed Paul Rudd's Scott Lang as he served the end of his house arrest, due to his involvement in Captain America: Civil War's tarmac battle. One of the first scenes has Scott going through his day at home, to the tune of The Partridge Family's theme song "Come on Get Happy!" And that track was originally going to pop back up in Endgame. As editor Jeff Ford jut revealed:
Well, my FOMO is through the roof. Avengers: Endgame went through plenty of versions, especially where its final battle is concerned. Some bits were left on the cutting room floor, including this quick nod to Ant-Man and The Wasp.

        Related: Fan Theory: Could Ant-Man 3 Introduce The Fantastic Four?
      
Jeff Ford's comments to Slash Film highlight how collaborative and ever-changing the creation of Avengers: Endgame was. The Russo Brothers shot their pair of Avengers flicks back to back, so the production was a frenzied one. As such, much of the crafting of those blockbusters came during the editing process-- which Jeff Ford was intimately involved with.
For those who don't remember, you can see the Partridge Family montage from Ant-Man and The Wasp below.
