
# AJ hopes Queens can rebound in return to Pars

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:21:51+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Temlett, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/stephen-temlett/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/aj-hopes-queens-can-rebound-20788639)

Allan Johnston has urged his players to get back to winning ways when they travel to Dunfermline on Saturday.
Queens fell flat against Inverness on Tuesday night but the boss believes the squad has what it takes to put it behind them and get three points against his former side.
Allan said: “It’s one we’re all looking forward to. Obviously they’ve picked up a wee bit of confidence so we know it’s going to be tough.”
Despite the 2-0 result, the Palmerston boss believed his side had done enough to earn a point in the game against the third placed side.
He added: “I thought we started the first half well.
“Dobbie is unlucky with a couple of opportunities then Inverness started creeping into the game. They scored a goal which takes a bit of a deflection and after that I thought Inverness were probably the better team in the second part of the first half.
“I thought the boys came out flying in the second half and played really well, created good opportunities and we really should’ve finished the night with a draw.”
Queens now find themselves in seventh place in the table, five points off the bottom and five points off the play offs in an extremely tight Championship.
The manager highlighted how crucial scoring first is in the league and that will be tight the whole season.
He added: “The league is incredibly tight and it’s all about putting a run of results together. We’ve managed to do that recently.
“On Saturday (against Alloa) we should’ve picked up the three points but it’s one of those games that, when you’re in that winning position, you've got to make sure you get the three points.
“And on Tuesday we should’ve gotten a draw, especially with the second half showing. But that’s what this league is like, it’s so tight and difficult. There’s not much between the teams and it’s all about getting that first goal because it’s massive in this league.
“We can’t just rely on Stephen to score. But he got himself in some really good areas and had some good opportunities. He was really unlucky not to score and with the quality he’s got I’m sure he’ll score a couple.
“But we’ve got the quality and we’ve got the players that hopefully we can get back on track at the weekend.”
