
# Lazio star Ciro Immobile in Celtic vow as he lifts lid on his major Jurgen Klopp failure

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:27:30+00:00**

Author: **Mark Walker**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/lazio-star-ciro-immobile-celtic-20793832)

Focused Lazio star Ciro Immobile reckons working with Jurgen Klopp helped turn him into one of the world's deadliest strikers, ahead of this week's Europa League showdown with Celtic.
The Italy forward is just one short for a century of goals for Lazio and will be hoping to reach the ton either on Sunday against AC Milan or on Thursday against Celtic .
Immobile has been labelled the most in-form striker in the world just now by Lazio boss Simone Inzaghi having bagged 14 goals in 14 games this season for club and country.
And the Lazio hero has credited his time working with Liverpool boss Klopp - who splashed out £14 million to sign him for Borussia Dortmund five years ago - as key to turning him into a top striker.
He said: "To be honest, my time at Dortmund wasn't a big success. I didn't settle well at the club and eventually moved on to Sevilla.
"But I am forever grateful about it because it gave me the opportunity to work with Jurgen Klopp. If I didn't go to Germany, I would never have had a chance to work with him.
"I believe that helped me enormously and when I eventually came back to Italy with Lazio three years ago I was a better player for the experience.
 
"I think I am going to be part of a success story at Lazio. We are in the hunt with three other teams for a Champions League place.
"And we see the Europa League as very important now. It's actually a tournament that fascinates me. We are not in a good position and we absolutely must beat Celtic this week to get back in with a chance of qualification."
