
# The Best Wedding Gifts for Your Groom

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Robin Raven**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/robinraven/2019/11/05/the-best-wedding-gifts-for-your-groom/)

Do you dream of saying “I Do” with a view of snowy mountains in the background or plan on a holiday destination wedding on sunny shores? No matter where you are tying the knot, getting married during the winter months is romantic and special. It also means that you need to consider the season and its many charms when choosing a gift for your groom. Traditionally given on the morning of the wedding, your groom’s gift can be as simple or as extravagant as you want it to be.
Do you long to give your groom a classic and elegant gift? These Versace Medusa cufflinks are both extravagant and practical. Medusa is the fashion house’s iconic mascot, representing the Gorgon who made men fall in love with her with no way of turning back. As your groom is entering into marriage and making the ultimate commitment, the symbolism behind these cufflinks is a fun touch, too. Versace’s signature Greco-Roman pattern can be seen on the edge of the cufflinks, with a black enamel background and the Medusa emblem in the center.

        SHOP NOW
      
Why not give him a practical gift that he’ll be likely to use daily? The Watson & Wolfe black travel wallet is a handsome accessory for men that has plenty of room for all the essentials that a traveler will need. There is room for his passport and airline tickets, which makes it an especially good gift for a destination wedding—or the honeymoon. The wallet has room for five credit cards, money, coins and accessories in the slip pocket.

        SHOP NOW
      
A watch is a superb traditional gift for a groom, especially since the lifetime commitment of marriage is sure to make every bride and groom pause to consider time. There’s no doubt that this handsome, Cartier watch is an investment. Built to last, the Santos de Cartier Chronograph Watch has a design that showcases both gold and silver. It has 18K yellow gold screws that are shown as part of its utilitarian style. (The Cartier Santos was originally a pilot’s watch.) The watch has 18K yellow gold bezel, sapphire crystal and a seven-sided crown with black synthetic spinel. It also has both a satin-brushed silver dial and two sub-dials. It comes in an 18K yellow gold stainless steel case.

        SHOP NOW
      
A keychain is a simple and useful gift, yet it can also be a sentimental one since you can engrave this stainless steel XUANPAI keychain with the customized message of your choice. (At least any message that will fit on the top of it.) The most important part will be the words you choose to add to it. Keep in mind he may be carrying this keychain for many years to come, so be sure to engrave the date of your wedding day so he can’t ever forget your anniversary.

        SHOP NOW
      
For the groom who has everything, unusual and fun gifts are the way to go. If he likes to stay warm in the winter with a little whiskey, he’ll appreciate these Black Lantern Forest Landscape whiskey glasses. They’ll probably remind him of forest campfires and other adventures in the rugged outdoors. The detailed illustration of the forest landscape is on both glasses. They come in a display box that makes a great gift box, so you can easily wrap it for him.

        SHOP NOW
      
A special pen is a practical but memorable groom’s gift. If he loves writing or simply dreams of owning a high-quality pen to use at work, he’ll fall in love with the StarWalker Fineliner Pen 8485 from Montblanc International, the renowned German maker of luxury writing implements. This pen is clearly from the famed brand, yet it has a futuristic appeal unlike most Montblanc pens. Of course, it also has the floating Montblanc emblem and characteristic clip. This pen is aesthetically pleasing with black precious resin and platinum-plated fittings.

        SHOP NOW
      
A wedding traditionally comes just before the excitement of a honeymoon. So it’s no wonder that travel-related groom’s gifts are consistently popular. A winter groom is sure to have an immediate use for the distinctive Rimowa Original Small Cabin Case. It’s lightweight but sturdy, and it is created from high-end anodized aluminum. The expandable top handle and convenient side handle make it easy to handle. So does its four-wheel system. It has TSA-approved locks for getting through security lines without issues. The trolley also has a dust bag, and it has zip pockets on each divider.

        SHOP NOW
      
You may want to give your husband-to-be this gift earlier, as it may come in handy in the days leading up to the big day. He can leave this personal care tool in the freezer overnight, and the following day it can help him soothe his facial muscles, while reducing any puffiness and redness. He can also use it as a muscle reliever after a hard workout.

        SHOP NOW
      
