
# ISL 2019-20 | Playing Bengaluru FC will be a big test, admits Antonio Iriondo

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:38:19+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/02/isl-2019-20-playing-bengaluru-fc-will-be-a-big-test-admits-antonio-iriondo?utm_medium=rss)


        Ahead of their third consecutive home game, Jamshedpur FC's Spanish coach Antonio Iriondo has admitted that the game against champions Bengaluru FC will be a big test. Moreover, the coach hailed the fan support at the Furnace while young forward Farrukh Choudhary spoke about his performance.
      
Jamshedpur FC had a wonderful start to their ISL campaign under the new Spanish manager Antonio Iriondo. The Men of Steel beat newcomers Odisha FC and Hyderabad FC at their home ground in Jamshedpur popularly known as the Furnace. Their next challenge will be against champions Bengaluru FC for a third consecutive home game. Bengaluru is travelling to Jamshedpur after two frustrating draws against NorthEast United FC and FC Goa. However, Spaniard Antonio Iriondo is not taking Bengaluru lightly and has admitted it as a big test. 
"It’s true that it will be a big test. There are no easy matches. Since they are the defending champions, it’s always the big test. From the matches we have seen of them, they are a good team. If you see the table and see they have two points, you can make the mistake of thinking that they are not playing well. But we saw on TV that they are doing great. It’s going to be a big test of us and we’ll see how we respond,” said Antonio Iriondo at the pre-match press conference, ISL website reported.
“The important thing is to focus on your team and strategies. What we have been doing is to focus on our own team, our strengths and weaknesses, and preparing as well as we can for the match. Our way of playing is very important for us and we are working on that new way of playing. The players need to use their minds and play with feelings. Hopefully, the intensity and passion will go together,” Iriondo further added.
The Spanish coach also hailed the fans who turned out in numbers at the JRD Tata Sports Complex popularly known as the Furnace.  
“The will of the fans always helps the team. A team is what the fans want it to be and we have seen it a lot in Europe that teams with a lot of fans get a lot of energy from them. We are very happy with the support we are getting and we hope we can give back to them the passion and football they want on the pitch.” said Iriondo.
The Spanish coach was also accompanied by the man in-form Farrukh Choudhary, who was the hero of the match in both Jamshedpur wins and spoke about his performance so far. “The coach sees in the training who are working hard and according to that he fields his starting XI. Our job is to work hard for the 90 minutes on the pitch and give our best. Everyone is trying to prove that they deserve a place in the starting XI.”
