
# Jeffrey Epstein brother claims unexplained wrist contusions and forearm abrasion point to possible murder

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:53:31+00:00**

Author: **John Gage**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/jeffrey-epstein-brother-claims-unexplained-wrist-contusions-and-forearm-abrasion-point-to-possible-murder)

Mark Epstein, the brother of Jeffrey Epstein, said he thinks his brother "might have been murdered" after he was found dead from hanging in his Manhattan prison cell in August.
"People should know the truth about what can happen in a federal facility," Mark Epstein told Fox News on Wednesday. He pointed to "unexplained" injuries that were found on his brother's body.
According to autopsy files from Fox News, Jeffrey Epstein's left forearm had an abrasion, and he had contusions on both of his wrists and hemorrhaging of his left shoulder or deltoid.
"Those are unexplained. Was he handcuffed and struggled? Was someone holding his wrists? The marks on his wrist are unexplained," Mark Epstein said.
The claim comes after Dr. Michael Baden, a veteran medical examiner, said that an independent autopsy showed injuries that appear to be caused by "homicidal strangulation." Baden pointed to several fractures in Jeffrey Epstein's neck as being particularly suspicious.
The New York medical examiner ruled the death was by suicide, and she said she stands by her original determination.
Jeffrey Epstein was facing charges of rape and sexual exploitation by dozens of women at the time of his death.
