
# Football: Real Madrid blow chance to go top after frustrating draw with Betis

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:10:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/sport/football-real-madrid-blow-chance-to-go-top-after-frustrating-12058822)

MADRID: Real Madrid passed up the chance to go clear at the top of La Liga after slip-ups from title rivals Barcelona and Atletico Madrid, when they could only draw 0-0 at home to struggling Real Betis on a difficult Saturday for Spain's top three sides.
Real were full of confidence after hammering Leganes 5-0 in mid-week for their biggest win of a stop-start season and appeared to get off to a great start when Eden Hazard struck early but the goal was ruled out for offside after a VAR review.
Madrid's clearest opening came in the second half when French left back Ferland Mendy surged forward towards goal but despite having plenty of time to shoot he missed the target, prompting howls of frustration from the fans behind the goal.
Real are second in the standings on 22 points after 11 games, level with leaders Barcelona who slid to a shock 3-1 loss at Levante earlier in the day.
Atletico Madrid, who have played one game more, are third on 21 points after drawing 1-1 at Sevilla, who are fourth with the same number of points. Betis are 14th with 13.
Karim Benzema saw a shot well saved in a bright opening spell while Toni Kroos came close to scoring from a free kick but Betis, who were victorious on their last two visits to the Santiago Bernabeu, were not shy down the other end.
French midfielder Nabil Fekir flashed a shot just wide in the first half and Loren Moron tried in vain to lob Thibaut Courtois, who had to make a smart save to deny Fekir late in the game.
Madrid had a penalty appeal for handball turned down in the closing stages while Vinicius Jr. and Dani Carvajal were both thwarted in stoppage time by Betis goalkeeper Joel Robles.
