
# AUS vs PAK | Trying to give my best in every opportunity I get, reveals Kane Richardson

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:45:15+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/aus-vs-pak-trying-to-give-my-best-in-every-opportunity-i-get-reveals-kane-richardson?utm_medium=rss)


        Australian paceman Kane Richardson has revealed that right in his career it’s all about making the best out of every opportunity that he gets. The fast bowler has, however, admitted that he still feels he is auditioning for a spot every time he takes the field in the Australian jersey.
      
Richardson did play for Australia in the World Cup this year but he wasn’t their first choice as he only got a call after his younger counterpart Jhye Richardson was ruled out due to injury. However, he has proven himself every time he has got the chance to and desires to continue with the spirit. 
Playing alongside great fast bowlers like Mitchell Starc and Pat Cummins, the 28-year-old Richardson knows his position will always be challenged and thus his goals are not long-term and he’s only looking ahead for the T20 World Cup in Australia which is to be carried out next year.
"I know a lot can change in a year. I learnt that in the 50-over World Cup just gone, getting called up about two days before the team left. It's just about trying to perform every single time I get the opportunity to take the field," Richardson was quoted as saying by cricket.com.au.
"I feel like I'm almost playing for a job going forward because there are so many good bowlers around. I would never look too far ahead (to the T20 World Cup)," Richardson was quoted as saying by cricket.com.au.
To be in the right spirit and to keep his game intact, Richardson only believes in getting better. 
"It's always just about trying to get better and learn from guys who do that well," attested Richardson.
In the washout game at Sydney, the paceman took 2-16 in his three overs against Pakistan and now is all set to feature in the 2nd T20I at the Manuka Oval.
