
# Emma Watson Covers British Vogue, Opens Up About Therapy After ‘Harry Potter’

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Emma Pocock**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/emmapocock/2019/11/06/emma-watson-covers-british-vogue-opens-up-about-therapy-after-harry-potter/)

Emma Watson, originally of Harry Potter fame, spoke to activist Paris Lee for British Vogue about the pressures of starring in the franchise, her fears on turning 30, and her activism for the magazine’s December 2019 edition. The edition will feature Emma Watson on its cover.August 2020 will mark 20 years since Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint were cast as the core trio of characters in the Harry Potter film series. They went on to star in eight movies, taking them on a journey lasting over a decade, ending with Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Part 2 in July 2011.
Speaking to Paris Lee for Vogue, Watson opened up on her experience since Harry Potter, saying she decided to go to therapy to sort through her thoughts and feelings of guilt about starring as Hermione Granger in the franchise:
“I’ve sat in therapy and felt really guilty about it. I’m like, why me? Somebody else would have enjoyed and wanted this aspect of it more than I did. And I’ve struggled a lot with the guilt around that. I’m like, I should be enjoying this a lot more, I should be more excited and I’m actually really struggling.”
It’s refreshing to see somebody of Watson’s fame and history given the opportunity to be candid about her experience of the pressures of being in a role with such high expectations from the age of eleven. Whilst the world saw her as Hermione Granger for over a decade, Watson said remaining rooted in her own identity helped her eventually “find peace”:
“Part of what’s helped me find peace is there were moments when it got so big where I almost had vertigo and felt it got so big that I felt l disconnected, and part of the peace within myself is remembering my identity.
“I am someone’s daughter. I am my mother’s daughter, I am my father’s daughter, I am a sister. I belong to a family. I come from a place, I have roots. There’s a whole big existence and identity that I have that’s really important and weighted and solid, that has nothing to do with any of that.”
Since Harry Potter, Daniel Radcliffe has starred in projects on stage and screen, from Equus on the West End and Broadway and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead at The Old Vic, to 2012 movie The Woman In Black, and lately TV series Miracle Workers, on which he served as executive producer on several episodes. Rupert Grint appeared in 2017 TV series Sick Note, served as producer and star in ongoing TV series, Snatch, and will star in Servant, which he discussed on a panel at New York Comic Con 2019.
Emma Watson has had arguably the most diverse and impressive career since ending Harry Potter, seeing her go from starring in the 2012 movie adaptation of The Perks of Being a Wallflower, to bringing to life a new imagining of Disney’s Belle in the live-action remake of Beauty and the Beast in 2017. She will also star as Margaret “Meg” March in Greta Gerwig’s adaptation of Little Women this Christmas, calling the character a feminist for her decisiveness:
 “Her choice is that she wants to be a full-time mother and wife. To Jo [Saoirse Ronan], being married is really some sort of prison sentence. But Meg says, ‘You know, I love him [John Brooke, who is played by James Norton] and I’m really happy and this is what I want. And just because my dreams are different from yours, it doesn’t mean they’re unimportant.”
Outside of her acting career since Harry Potter, Emma Watson has given her voice and platform to women’s rights, LGBTQ+ rights, and sustainability campaigns. She serves as UN Women Goodwill Ambassador, advocating the HeforShe campaign to end gender inequality. Watson kicked off the campaign at a special event at the UN Headquarters in 2014 with a rousing, bold speech on being a feminist and ending sexual harassment, closing with a memorable call to action: “Ask yourself–if not me, who? If not now, when?”
She has since served on global summit panels for years, and and earlier this year sat down with Nobel Peace Prize winner Dr. Denis Mukwege in London for a sombre conversation organised by New York Times about gender-based violence, and Mukwege’s work as a human rights activist and doctor working to end the use of rape as a weapon of war.
Watson also contributed to the original TimesUp campaign and #MeToo fund to support victims of sexual harassment after Harvey Weinstein was exposed by several women in the movie industry for subjecting them to sexual harassment and assault. She also set up a hotline for victims of sexual harassment in the workplace.
Telling Lee about the perceived struggles of turning 30, and her newfound happiness in being single (which she calls being self-partnered in an effort to reclaim the happier parts of being single), she said:
“I was like, ‘Why does everyone make such a big fuss about turning 30? This is not a big deal…’” she shares. “Cut to 29, and I’m like, ‘Oh my God, I feel so stressed and anxious. And I realise it’s because there is suddenly this bloody influx of subliminal messaging around. If you have not built a home, if you do not have a husband, if you do not have a baby, and you are turning 30, and you’re not in some incredibly secure, stable place in your career, or you’re still figuring things out… There’s just this incredible amount of anxiety.”
Find the full December 2019 edition of British Vogue on newsstands from November 8th.
