
# Meghan opens up about Archie beginning to crawl as she surprises military families

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:01:06+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, Lisa Youd, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/meghan-opens-up-archie-beginning-20830356)

The Duchess of Sussex swapped parenting tips with other mums during a surprise visit to an army family coffee morning.
Harry and Meghan stopped by Broom Farm Community Centre to chat with families from the Welsh Guards, Coldstream Guards and Household Cavalry about what army life is really like.
The Duchess took the opportunity to share details of Archie’s sleep patterns and teething experience with a few of the mums.
Amy Thompson, whose husband Brad is attached to the Welsh Guards, said: “My daughter Aeris is the same age as Archie and we talked about weaning and the children beginning to crawl.
"(Meghan) is just a normal mum and it was like talking to a friend.”
 
The majority of the Coldstream Guards are on exercise in Kenya, while a large proportion of the Welsh Guards are coming to the end of a long deployment to The Falklands.
The soldiers' work overseas prompted Prince Harry to admit how in awe he was of the family members at home holding their households together.
He said: “It’s unbelievably hard. I have so much respect and admiration for anyone who has to deal with that.”
  
In the same week that his son Archie turned six months old, family was clearly on the Prince's mind.
“I can’t imagine what it’s like to miss so much as they change so quickly,” he added.
Army spouse Leigh Smith brought along her eight-year-old daughter Molly to meet the Royals.
 
“Meghan promised not to tell anyone that I was off school,” said Molly.
“She asked me who my best friend was.”
Molly and her mum have been avid followers of the Duke and Duchess since they held a party to celebrate their wedding on 19 May last year.
 
 
"It was an amazing experience for Molly to shake hands with them," Leigh added.
"It’s really special and a lovely boost for the whole community.”
On Thursday morning a video of the Royal couple interacting with young children was posted on their official Instagram page.
A caption alongside the video read: "Every year during the month of November we pause to remember and honour all those who have served their country here in the UK, across the Commonwealth and around the world.
 
"Their Royal Highnesses also wanted to show support for the families of service personnel who are currently deployed overseas.
"During the visit yesterday, Their Royal Highnesses met with young families who shared their experiences as parents and as couples who are often apart from their loved ones for months at a time.
"A reminder that a life of service does not simply describe the person wearing the uniform, but the entire family."
Coldstream Guards welfare officer, Capt Colin Lewis, said the visit was a welcome tonic after a tough 18 months.
 
“The regiment are really appreciative of the support the families provide by picking up the burden when the service person is away," he explained.
"It’s great for The Duke and Duchess to take the time to truly understand the challenges they face.
"They are very down to earth, and they’ve had a snapshot of the entire community here by talking to lots of people from different backgrounds.”
For the month of November, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are honouring members of the armed forces and their families.
Prince Harry served in the forces for ten years and continues to advocate for veterans and their loved ones through the Invictus Games.
Meghan will make her first visit to Westminster Abbey's Field of Remembrance later today.
