
# The Deborah Sampson Act Wants To Tackle Sexual Assault In The Military By Increasing Access To Healthcare

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:15:39+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/the-deborah-sampson-act-wants-to-tackle-sexual-assault-in-the-military-by-increasing-access-to-healthcare-19303426)

Republican members of Congress walked out of a House committee meeting last week after a heated debate about the Deborah Sampson Act, a bill seeking to increase healthcare access for female veterans. The bill, named for Revolutionary War veteran Deborah Sampson, aims to bring the issues former servicewomen face to light, putting special focus on military sexual trauma (MST) and sexual harassment in Veterans Affairs (VA) facilities. While these are often considered non-partisan issues in Congress, the Oct. 29 walkout stunned the vets, lawmakers, and advocates who have been fighting for better care for former servicewomen.
The drama began when GOP lawmakers wanted to add amendments to the bill, including one related to gun rights for veterans, that Rep. Mark Takano, the chairman of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, decried as "partisan" and "toxic." Republican lawmakers walked out when Takano stopped debate on the proposed amendments, saying later in a statement, "Instead of bringing forth meaningful, productive additions to legislation that will improve the lives of women veterans, they added toxic, partisan amendments — none of which worked to address how women veterans receive care."
“Today’s poison pill amendments and GOP walkout are a shame,” Nancy Pelosi said in a tweet after the walkout.
The bill is particularly important insofar as it would increase healthcare access for sexual assault survivors who are veterans. Members of the military face high rates of sexual violence. Last year, the Department of Defense estimated that 20,500 active duty service people experienced sexual assault, around 13,500 of whom were women. (The department didn’t include data on where transgender service people, whom the Trump administration began banning from military service in 2019, fall within these numbers, and the Deborah Sampson Act doesn’t directly address increasing services for trans vets.) The Pentagon has been criticized for being slow to manage the problem of sexual assault, and even less attention is paid to survivors once they leave the service.
“The overarching [feeling] that I get very consistently from women veterans across the country is that they just feel very invisible once they leave the military,” Rep. Julia Brownley, who authored the Deborah Sampson Act, tells Bustle.
The bill would create a dedicated leadership office to help ensure female veterans, particularly those who face homelessness, experience post-traumatic stress disorder, or who have survived sexual trauma, have an easier time accessing healthcare in the VA system. The hope, according to Brownley, is to make women who’ve served feel less invisible.
Paula Coughlin is one such veteran this bill would help. Coughlin was one of 90 people assaulted during a military aviators conference in 1991, while she was serving as a lieutenant in the Navy. When she told her admiral what happened, Coughlin says he told her “that’s what you get when you go down a hallway full of drunk aviators.” She went public with her story when the Navy failed to address her allegations.
