
# EICMA 2019: Hero Xpulse 200 with Rally kit unveiled

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:43:52+00:00**

Author: **Aditya Jadhav  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/eicma-2019-hero-xpulse-200-with-rally-kit-unveiled/)

Hero Xpulse 200 equipped with a different and more hardcore set of cycle parts has been unveiled at the EICMA 2019 in Milan. The changes/upgrade has been dubbed the 'Rally kit' which can be retro-fitted on a Hero Xpulse 200. However, the Rally kit has not been homologated which is why you will have to refrain yourself from using it on the road.
The Hero Xpulse 200 in its stock state gets suspension travel of 190mm and 170mm in the front and rear respectively. The Rally kit takes it a notch above and offers longer travel suspension along with compression and rebound adjustment. Jacked up suspension has also added to the ground clearance of the Xpulse 200 and the motorcycle with Rally kit will boast a ground clearance number of 275mm as opposed to the 220mm on the standard motorcycle.
Other changes are to the seat which is now flatter and offers a higher riding position. In regard to the changed riding position, the kit offers handlebar raiser that aids rider's while riding standing up. The gear lever and the brake pedal are longer for the ease of operation with riding boots on. The Rally kit also includes an upgraded set of tyres, from dual-sport Ceats to Maxxis rally-spec knobby tyres.
Mechanically, the engine remains untouched although Hero Moto Corp has tweaked the final drive ratio to offer more bottom-end and mid-range grunt. The sprocket size has been changed to 12/40T that offers a final drive ratio of 3.33. The exhaust fitted on the motorcycle showcased at the EICMA 2019 has an Akrapovic end can which is not a part of the Rally kit. That said, Hero is working on arrangements that can be made in order to fit an aftermarket exhaust system on your Xpulse 200 should you wish.
The Rally kit is likely to go on sale in India by the first quarter of 2020. The entire kit has been developed by Hero MotoCorp's Research and Development hub in India with inputs from the Hero MotoSports Team Rally. The kit is likely to be priced close to Rs 50,000 which is half the cost of the Hero Xpulse 200 in India. The Carburettor variant of the Hero Xpulse 200 retails at Rs 98,000 whereas the fuel-injected variant will set you back by Rs 1.06 lakh ex-showroom Mumbai.

        EICMA 2019: KTM 390 Adventure showcased, India launch this year?
      

        EICMA 2019: 2020 Suzuki V-Strom 1050 and 1050 XT revealed
      

        EICMA 2019: BMW F 900 R and F 900 XR unveiled
      

        EICMA 2019: All-new, 2020 Honda CBR1000RR-R Fireblade breaks cover
      
