
# CIRQ, the world's smallest 1080p projector, is half off today

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:30:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/cirq-worlds-smallest-1080p-projector-half-today?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)

When it comes to enjoying your favorite movies and TV shows in all of their cinematic glory, your laptop screen, or even a flatscreen TV, just doesn’t cut it compared to a good projector.
This incredibly compact and lightweight CIRQ projector lets you turn any space into a full-fledged movie theater, and it’s available for 50% off at just $299.
This travel-ready projector delivers a high-resolution cinematic experience along with a supremely portable design that lets you toss it in your bag at a moment’s notice.
You’ll be able to enjoy your favorite content with 240 inches of projection on virtually any surface, watch your favorite shows and movies in full HD 1080p resolution, and enjoy rich sound thanks to dual HiFi speakers that pack a rich bass and crystal-clear highs.
And since this projector utilizes the latest Bluetooth 5.0 technology, it’s easy to quickly connect to all of your go-to streaming sources without having to worry about cumbersome wires.
Create a full-fledged cinematic experience wherever you go with the CIRQ: World’s Smallest 1080p Projector for just $299—50% off its usual price for a limited time.

        Prices are subject to change.
      
 

        Still alive Microsoft is building Cortana into Outlook with smart AI features Cortana is expanding into new areas as Microsoft beings integrating the virtual assistant into Microsoft 365, starting with Outlook. Users inside Outlook will soon be able to take advantage of Cortana and allow it to work for you by organizing your calendar, emails, and more.
      

        Megapixels Samsung Galaxy S11 tipped to come with an "improved" 108MP camera sensor If Chinese tipster Ice Universe is to be believed, Samsung Galaxy S11 will feature a new 108MP camera sensor.
      

        Office Hub Microsoft announces new all-in-one Office Mobile app for Android A new Office app for Android and iOS is on the way that combines the power of Word, Excel, and PowerPoint into one convenient app instead of three.
      

        safety first Protect your Nokia 7.1 with the best cases available today! It's always a stressful situation in the event that something happens to your smartphone. This is true for the Nokia 7.1 as you wouldn't want to have to replace your new device due to a cracked screen. To combat those concerns, we have found the best cases you can get for your new phone!
      
