
# The Fate Of ACA In Kentucky Hangs In The Balance As Tuesday’s Gubernatorial Election Looms

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Clary Estes**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/claryestes/2019/11/04/the-fate-of-aca-in-kentucky-hangs-in-the-balance-as-tuesdays-gubernatorial-election-looms/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2799684400&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesTechTwitter)

As Lexington, Kentucky prepares for President Trump’s visit to stump for incumbent Republican governor, Matt Bevin, the day before the November 5th election, tensions in the center of the state are running high. There is expected to be a large turnout for the rally, in what is becoming an ever increasingly red state, as well as an influx protestors who plan to march through the downtown area in opposition. Trump and Bevin are hoping the president’s visit will give the governor the final bump he needs to win the bitterly contested race, in which Bevin has found himself neck in neck with Democratic opponent, Andy Beshear.
It is understandable why Trump is coming to stump for Bevin, in fact, there are a number of reasons why Trump would support Bevin heavily in his campaign. Not only is the Kentucky Governor an avid Trump loyalist, Tuesday’s national races are also expected to be a barometric reading on how open American voters are to the impeachment proceedings against the President.
Bevin’s race to keep his seat as governor has been shadowed by his unpopular tenure as governor where has, among other things, anger teachers by calling them “selfish” and blaming them for children being “physically harmed, poisoned, sexually assaulted, and [trying] drugs due to having the day off in April 2018,” while they protested vehemently against Bevin’s cuts to the state’s pension program. However it is Bevin’s aggressive moves to “overhaul” Kentucky’s Medicaid program (supported by the Trump administration) that have many people watching this race.
Unlike Lexington, Kentucky the rest of the state is quiet, with many people feeling disconnected from the vitriolic gubernatorial race. When Bevin was elected in 2015 only about a third of the state voted and the numbers for 2019 don’t look to be any better.
Bevin, who is a proponent of the Koch model of governance focusing on outsourcing government programs to the private sector, immediately targeted the states Medicaid program almost as soon as he came into office. Bevin has repeatedly attempted to challenge Kentucky Medicaid with budget cuts and work requirements. Unfortunately for Bevin, many of his a volleys against the program have been met with defendants of the program on all fronts. Medicaid in Kentucky has become a battle line.
Kentucky was one of the first states to effectively integrate the Affordable Care Act by starting Kynect, now renamed the Kentucky Health Benefit Exchange. The platform allowed Kentuckians to both shop for health coverage, as well as apply for Medicaid coverage and was successful within the first four days of its creation with 137,000 individuals using the website in October of 2013 and 410,000 Kentuckians signing up for insurance plans by April of 2014.
For the first time low income Kentuckians statewide were given access to nearly full medical coverage including dental and vision. Kentucky’s Medicaid program also opened up the state’s drug treatment opportunities in a region that has been decimated by the opioid crisis. When Bevin came into office he quickly pushed legislation to “overhaul” the Medicaid program and incorporate work requirements and premiums for “able-bodied” Medicaid recipients - a move that has been rejected twice by federal judges and is incredibly unpopular statewide. In response to federal rejection of his proposed changes, Bevin took aim at Medicaid’s vision and dental by cutting coverage for almost 500k Kentucky Medicaid recipients, a move that shocked healthcare providers and patients alike and many Democratic lawmakers called, “rash”, “harsh,” and contended was “possibly illegal”. Bevin soon reversed his cuts.
Ultimately, the battle over Kentucky’s Medicaid coverage will be determined, in part, by the November 5th election. If Bevin does get re-elected there will undoubtedly be a continued push pull on the state’s Medicaid coverage. The unfortunate aspect of this issue is that the very people effected by Bevin’s Medicaid cuts are the ones who are feeling most disconnected from the election; rural Kentuckians. More than 1.2 million Kentuckians are covered by Medicaid with about 40% of all Medicaid recipients being children. Medicaid statistically covers more rural Americans that urban and in a state that has about 50% of its population living out of cities it is undoubted that the biggest hits to Medicaid will be felt in the more impoverished rural areas such as eastern Kentucky where even community hospitals struggle to stay open.
Yet, the crux of the issue at hand is that any cuts Kentucky takes to Medicaid will eventually be felt on a national level. The conservative administration on the federal level has shown no interest in preserving Medicaid nationally and Trump has supported Bevin’s various moves against Medicaid coverage. Depending on Kentucky’s election outcome, we may end up seeing just how quickly an effective implementation of Medicaid can be turned around and decimated. Unfortunately, it will be the most vulnerable citizens that are effected if that happens.
