
# 'Start off in a friendly manner': how to have the money conversation

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:30:21+00:00**

Author: **Alex Holder**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/money/2019/nov/02/start-friendly-manner-how-to-talk-about-money-finances-pay)


        A new openness is changing the way we talk about our finances – from pay discrimination to the rise of the ‘debtstagrammer’
      
One evening, on impulse, Sara Tasker shared her salary in an Instagram caption. “I just thought, I’m going to be honest about this,” she says now. Tasker tapped out the post in her iPhone notes first and, 10 minutes later, found herself pressing share. “I went back in and edited it for five minutes and then sat poised, waiting for the comments.”
Tasker has a public account, with more than 200,000 followers. The post wasn’t going to sit in an internet vacuum; it would be seen by strangers, friends, the other parents at her daughter’s school. “This year I made over £200k,” she wrote, “mainly whilst sat at my kitchen table, drinking gin & doing what I love… It’s all possible, friends.” Tasker knew there would be a reaction: “It was terrifying – I felt very vulnerable.” But she wanted people to know it was possible to make a very good living in her multi-hyphenate role of influencer, photographer and coach. “My parents didn’t know what I did,” she says. “There was no evidence that it was possible to do this well.”
Despite the cynicism in some quarters about influencer culture, the response to her post was overwhelmingly positive. Tasker’s success story is the palatable kind: she’s a self-made northerner, who before going all-out on Instagram worked as a speech therapist in the NHS, earning £21,000 a year. She believes this coloured the response to her new, six-figure salary.
“You can’t just say, ‘This is what I earn,’ and it be a neutral fact,” Tasker admits. “It has to be contextualised.” But despite all the raised-hands emojis in the comments, Tasker couldn’t sleep, knowing the post was sitting there. “I took it down two days later,” she says. “I felt like I’d had the conversations I needed to have. I didn’t want to feel like a target. It’s exposing in ways that I haven’t quite processed yet. The post felt bigger than me.”
Talking about money is complicated. In March this year, YouGov research found that 50% of UK adults believe that sharing personal money matters with others is taboo – although 61% of people said they feel better when they do.
However, there are signs of a new openness, much of it led by personal revelations – from individuals sharing their salaries, to money diaries going viral, to the rise of “debtstagrammers”, people who are happy to post their credit card bills to Instagram in the hope that their followers will make them accountable when it comes to paying back their debt. Even Lloyds bank’s latest TV ad campaign has featured family members having halting conversations about their finances, ending with the tagline: “It’s good to talk about money.”
Tasker is not the only influencer to have revealed what she earns publicly. In May, the food writer and activist Jack Monroe disclosed her salary of £21,000 to a Guardian journalist reporting on the squeamishness British people still feel about discussing what they earn. Earlier this year, fashion blogger Alex Stedman, AKA The Frugality, posted to her blog: “Money, it’s something we never have enough of, right?! But it’s also something, I believe, we’re not talking enough about.” Stedman started her blog, which champions affordable fashion and sustainability, because she “wanted to take away the stigma of not having tons of money”. She revealed that she currently pays herself a salary of £30,000 – the highest she’s ever earned.
Legislation that in 2018 made it mandatory for all UK companies with more than 250 staff to publish their gender pay gap – the disparity between what male and female employees earn – has helped propel what was once private information into the public domain. Suddenly there was no denying that our reticence to talk about money was protecting unfair pay gaps and, in some cases, illegal discrimination. On 2018’s Equal Pay-Day (the day in the year that women effectively begin working for free), the Fawcett Society launched a campaign calling on people to “end the culture of pay secrecy” by “talking to your colleagues and asking what they earn”.
Last month it was reported that Samira Ahmed, presenter of Newswatch, is taking the BBC to an employment tribunal over alleged unequal pay. It follows the high profile case of broadcaster Carrie Gracie, who in early 2018 resigned as the BBC’s China editor, citing gendered pay discrimination. She is passionate about why we need to get more comfortable with talking about money. “However difficult that first conversation might seem, you’ve got to have it,” she tells me. “It’s like gym work, isn’t it? You build muscle and you get stronger.” Gracie recently published a book on the subject, Equal: A Story Of Women, Men And Money. “One of the reasons I’ve written it is to say to women: ‘You really have to be vigilant.’ It is imperative for women to talk about this because, if they’re not careful, over their working life they could lose out on hundreds of thousands of pounds.”
So how do you start a conversation about equal pay at work? “It’s obviously very important to start off in a friendly manner,” says Gracie, who ultimately won an apology and a payout from the BBC. “You need to be professional, businesslike, and show that you’re serious and take yourself seriously, but that doesn’t mean you have to be angry or emotional.” And if your emotions or nerves get the better of you? “If you emerge thinking, ‘Ugh, I wish I’d handled that better’, then don’t worry about it: you should be proud of yourself and know that you’ll get it better next time. It’s a learning journey.”
Talking and sharing in this way has helped people fight other money injustices. Now that 15% of the UK workforce are self‑employed, more people than ever are finding themselves without the protection of HR departments or trade unions; instead, they are self-organising on social media. Campaigners Seyi Akiwowo and Gabby Edlin recently set up a Facebook group titled Fuck You Pay M£ where women and non-binary people could discuss rates and give each other money advice. “We’re sick and tired of being asked to work for free,” wrote Edlin. “To do panels for free, run a workshop ‘on love’, or create art for companies with only the offer of ‘exposure’.”
Anna Codrea-Rado started her campaign, #FairPayforFreelancers, in February this year. It began with an open letter demanding an end to unfair and slow payment practices, which was signed by 800 journalists. “The closure of the Pool [an online women’s magazine that entered administration in January, leaving many unpaid] was the final straw,” she says. “I realised that no one was protecting us.” When the columnist Laura Craik went public about the £7,250 that she says The Pool owed her, she wrote that the magazine only seemed to stop commissioning new writers “once they [were] outed first on Facebook and then on Twitter by a mounting number of freelancers who [hadn’t] been paid”.
In August 2019, Ben O’Brien, an illustrator with more than 15 years’ experience of making art for clients including the BBC, tweeted to his 25,000 followers: “Lame start to the week when I find out the job I was in line for (16 illustrations for one of the biggest smartphone brands with a major ad agency) was to be paid for with… a new phone worth £1k. No thanks mate.” The first time O’Brien had asked about the budget, his question was ignored. “I had no reason to be suspicious,” he says. “It’s a huge agency, so I presumed they were finalising details.” But a week away from starting the job, which O’Brien estimated would take a month working full-time to complete, he asked again. They replied: “No, the phone we sent you, that is the payment.” Frustrated, O’Brien aired his grievances on Twitter. “Although I have great clients, illustrators are often underpaid and undervalued,” he says. “By calling it out, I hope people will realise that it’s not OK to presume someone will work for no actual pay.”
Another illustrator, Niki Groom, aka Miss Magpie, has founded a collective of illustrators who are open with each other about pay, allowing them to enter negotiations with clients knowing the market rate. She also took the step of posting her illustration earnings over the past 10 years online. Through beautifully rendered pie charts, she reveals that she went from earning just £160 from illustrating in 2012 to £59,548 in 2018. “If people think I’m showing off, then they have misunderstood,” says Groom. “I wanted people to know that it takes time to build earnings, but that it’s possible to make a living. It’s amazing how helpful a data point of one or two people can be to knowing your own worth. The most surprising thing is that even those who I’d have considered my competitors have been positive and thankful.”
Pay is not the only hot topic in the new, more open money conversation. Last year the UK’s unsecured debt – which includes store cards, credit cards, overdrafts, payday and personal loans – reached its highest ever level compared with income. Kirsty Good, head of campaigns and forums at MoneySavingExpert.com, says it is vital we learn to talk about debt, adding: “It’s why financial education is needed. If people could feel more knowledgeable about their finances, they might feel more comfortable openly talking about how they’ve managed to, say, shift their debt on to a 0% credit card, or how they’re planning to pay for a big event, like a wedding.”
Once again, though, a shift does seem to be under way. On MoneySavingExpert’s Debt Free Wannabe forums, members display an almost cultish devotion to openly discussing money. Each contributor signs off their posts with the amount of debt they owe and their predicted debt-free date. While no substitute for formal, one-on-one advice, the platform is an opportunity to speak to someone who knows how it feels to be £15k in debt while earning the minimum wage. “The threads are non-judgmental places for people to swap their experiences, celebrate even the smallest of wins and, in some cases, save lives,” says Good.
I speak to a woman called Anna (not her real name), who in March this year posted a list of her debts on Instagram. From a Next credit account to an American Express card, they totalled £25,438.11. She named the account @myfrugalyear and publicly announced her intention to be debt-free by March 2021. “It was a pretty rough moment, actually,” she says. “I felt like the protagonist of a 1990s debt consolidation advert, sitting head in hands at my kitchen table. I’d just had a really difficult conversation with the bank, as we were in an unarranged overdraft. They were asking when I would be out of it, and I had to say, ‘I don’t know. We were just paid last week and there is no money left.’ I realised in that moment: enough is enough. I knew I needed to sit down and add up all my debt.”
The bank offered Anna an adviser, but she turned the offer down: “I didn’t want to be patronised or belittled in a meeting about my finances.” But if she couldn’t talk about it in a private room, why post it to Instagram? “I had always been influenced to spend by Instagram, and it felt like poetic justice to use it as a vehicle out of the situation,” she says.
Anna is not the only one looking to social media for a way out: the hashtag #debtfreejourney has now been used half a million times on Instagram. For Anna, it’s working: in six months she’s paid off nearly £5,000 and has 20,000 new social media followers to hold her accountable. She’s also found that her relationship with Instagram has changed. “The illusion has been shattered,” she says. “I look at the interiors accounts I used to follow and think: what was so seductive about them? I look at my old feed and see it’s just pictures of stuff. Going public has forced me to be honest with myself.”
The popularity of money diaries, where people document their outgoings, is another sign of the new openness about spending. The Guardian’s regular How I Spend It column, in which readers discuss their finances, has been running since January 2018 and has proved hugely popular with people who are curious about how others save or spend. For many would-be contributors, though, the sticking point is the need to declare their earnings. “Those willing to share their income details usually come from the public sector or are self-employed or on benefits,” says Patrick Collinson, editor of Guardian Money. “If you are a nurse or teacher, then your salary details are already in a sense publicly available, as there are agreed scales.”
On the website Refinery29, anonymous female social workers, accountants and paediatricians have broken down their spending in minute detail; one writer included everything from their rent, to their New Year’s Eve cocaine bill, to paying their flatmate back £1 for a packet of crisps. Last month the BBC launched its own version, in which a 27-year-old wrote of her guilt over spending £1.50 on a can of tuna. The story went viral, with readers debating whether her frugality was commendable or depressing, and the woman, who wasn’t anonymous, found her spending trending on Twitter. “Money is a window into our society, so people enjoying the voyeurism of the series isn’t a surprise,” explains Gillian Orr, head of content at Refinery29. “Millennials came of age during the financial crash, so they have a different perspective on money to other generations. Whereas their parents kept conversations about finance behind closed doors, young people today are much more relaxed discussing this previously ‘sensitive’ issue with friends, partners and even strangers online.”
For the 25 million UK customers now managing their banking though phone apps, keeping your own digital money diary has never been easier. With banks like Monzo and Starling displaying spending by category and retailer, it’s impossible to ignore what is draining our bank accounts, whether it’s Starbucks or Asos; and that in turn is prompting conversations between friends about spending habits. But while apps are making us more accountable, there is a downside. “The positives of being able to see your bank balance and have your spending itemised is being outweighed by the detrimental effect contactless payments and one-click checkouts have on our spending,” says Jason Butler, an FT columnist and host of the Real Money Stories podcast. A 2014 report by the Journal of Economic Sciences found that contactless payments have led to an 8-10% increase in spending at the point of sale. “There’s still a way to go on the money conversation. Right now we’re at the awareness stage: yes, more people are sharing, and we’ve started to realise the positives that can come from talking about money. But it doesn’t mean everyone is ready.”
A year after that Instagram post, I ask Sara Tasker if there have been any negative consequences of revealing her salary. “It’s been really positive – my friendships are definitely more honest,” she says. “I guess it’s slightly strange when I go out for dinner with my family, and my mum and dad will pay for my siblings and not me, but that’s also totally OK.”
I ask Anna of @myfrugalyear how her friends reacted to her honesty. “They were surprised,” she says. “We’d put on a good act over the years, and no one realised quite how much debt we were in. Afterwards some friends revealed that they are in the same situation, and having that chat was such a relief – a bonding experience.” She adds that not every conversation has been that easy. “One friend who is sorted financially said, ‘Well, now I don’t feel I can talk to you about the house I’m buying.’ And in truth it does make me feel jealous. But at least we can work through those conversations together now, with a bit more empathy.”

        Honesty box: how to be straight about cash
      
1 You might not be ready to chat openly, but don’t deceive yourself. Look at your bank account and be mindful when spending. No one should get to the end of the month saying, “I don’t know where all my money went.”
2 Don’t just accept that you’re “rubbish with money”. As MoneySavingExpert.com’s Kirsty Good says, “It’s crucial a consumer can do the maths on a discount, or know how to split the bill with a friend – it stops them being ripped off.”
3 Try to have casual chats about money with friends, colleagues and your partner – that way, when you have to talk about it in a high-stakes situation, you’ll have the vocabulary to advocate for yourself.
4 Money is a topic for everyone, not just for rich people. There is no one who wouldn’t benefit from a conversation about it.
5 Talk about how you’re paying for things, not just how much things cost. It’s a chance to educate each other about good and bad sources of credit.
• Alex Holder is the author of Open Up: Why Talking About Money Will Change Your Life (Serpent’s Tail)
If you would like a comment on this piece to be considered for inclusion on Weekend magazine’s letters page in print, please email weekend@theguardian.com, including your name and address (not for publication).
