
# Lokayukta directs BBMP to resolve ‘B’ khata issues

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/lokayukta-directs-bbmp-to-resolve-b-khata-issues/articleshow/71883362.cms)

The Karnataka Lokayukta has directed the Commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to get an inquiry conducted through engineers and revenue officers of respective wards with regard to the buildings that have been constructed 110 villages under its jurisdiction. The Commissioner has also been directed to file a report with names and addresses of the people who have registered in B Khata and the tax collected from them each year. M Venkatachalapathy, joint commissioner, revenue, BBMP, has stated that effective steps are being taken and substantial progress has been made to relieve the hardship of the owners of the property with ‘B’ khata. The owners with B khata find it difficult to establish ownership of their buildings, obtain bank loans or get other civic benefits. There are 4,10,000 owners whose names have been registered in the B register. The B khata is created only for the purpose of collection of property tax. According to the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike Property Tax Rules, 2009, the property tax collected from the owner or occupier in respect of property assessed to tax shall be maintained in Property Tax register in Form A and in respect of unassessed properties shall be maintained in a register in Form B. Also every return filed by a owner or occupier shall be given a continuous serial number in a chronological order by the computer and thereafter it shall be taken up for random scrutiny under supervision of an officer authorized by the Commissioner. Since the 110 villages and certain City Municipal Corporations (CMCs) came under the corporation limits in 2007, the Rules shall apply to the properties in these areas too. However, since the sites in these villages have been converted for non-agricultural purposes and the layout has not been approved, the owners cannot be issued A khata and their names are being registered in the ‘B’ register. There is no provision to do so, Venkatachalapathy had stated. The Lokayukta Justic P Vishwanatha Shetty observed that since the steps are being taken to resolve the problems of the citizens, at this stage, he does not find it necessary to examine maladministration by the civic authority. “In my view, the ends of Justice will be met if eight weeks time is granted to the respondents to file the status report with regard to the steps taken. I am sure the concerned authorities would appreciate that the problems regarding B khata faced by the public which has been unsolved for a decade’s time is required to be solved with urgency. Failing to redress the issues within the reasonable time may be considered as maladministration on the part of the authority,” states the order.
