
# DWP end to benefit freeze 'won't plug the gaps' for the hard-up

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:50:05+00:00**

Author: **Dan Bloom, https://www.facebook.com/mirrordanbloom**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/dwp-end-benefit-freeze-wont-20818395)

The Tories’ cynical pledge to end the benefits freeze days before the election campaign “won’t plug the gaps” for the hard-up, a powerful MP declared today.
Frank Field, chairman of the Commons Work and Pensions Committee, said the 1.7% rise in payments from April will not make up for the years of biting austerity.
Instead Mr Field said his committee has demanded a higher 3.7% rise with sustained above-inflation rises for four years.
He said: “A huge chunk has been gouged out of people’s incomes, and the Government’s plans simply won’t plug the gaps that are left.”
The committee has said freezes and caps on most benefits since 2010 - including no rise at all since 2015 - cost families between £888 and £1,845 per year.
The benefit freeze was always due to end in 2020 but Boris Johnson and Tory ministers had repeatedly refused to confirm it definitely be suspended.
Finally on Sunday the government confirmed rates for most benefits and Universal Credit will rise at the rate of CPI inflation - 1.7%. By comparison the state pension will rise 3.9%.
Labour branded the announcement "cynically-timed".
Work and Pensions Secretary Therese Coffey said over the weekend: "We're clear the best way for people to improve their lives is through work but we know some people require additional support.
"Our balanced fiscal approach has built a strong economy, with 3.6 million more people in work since 2010. And it's that strong economy which allows us to bolster the welfare safety net by increasing benefit payments for working-age claimants now."
