
# My boyfriend never climaxes when we have sex and it’s making me insecure

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:00:51+00:00**

Author: **Pamela Stephenson Connolly**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2019/nov/05/my-boyfriend-never-climaxes-when-we-have-sex-and-its-making-me-insecure)


        We make love for hours and I’ll have orgasm after orgasm. Does he have to miss out?
      

        My boyfriend and I have been dating for more than three months, but he never climaxes when we have sex. We go at it for hours
         and I usually 
        orgasm three or more times, but 
        he never does, no matter how much I try. Yet, when he masturbates, he can do it within a minute or two. Sometimes I feel frustrated and insecure about not doing my job. Is there anything I can do?
      
Ask him. All you need to say is: “I’d love you to teach me exactly how to please you.” But he may prefer to orgasm by himself. Some men have a very specific masturbation style that is difficult to emulate, so don’t take it personally. Also, some people find it far easier to give pleasure than to receive it – they would benefit from trying to find a better balance (as would those who mainly prefer to be pleasured). There is also the element of distraction – some people have to work harder than others to avoid having their focus on achieving orgasm being interrupted. But it sounds as though your boyfriend is pleasing you very well; some women would consider him a perfect lover. You cannot control the timing of his climax. Unless you are trying to become pregnant, just let him be.
•Pamela Stephenson Connolly is a US-based psychotherapist who specialises in treating sexual disorders.
•If you would like advice from Pamela on sexual matters, send us a brief description of your concerns to private.lives@theguardian.com (please don’t send attachments). Submissions are subject to our terms and conditions: see gu.com/letters-terms.
•Comments on this piece are premoderated to ensure discussion remains on topics raised by the writer. Please be aware there may be a short delay in comments appearing on the site.
