
# Dana White: Donald Trump’s Attendance At UFC 244 Big For The Sport

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/03/dana-white-donald-trumps-attendance-at-ufc-244-was-big-for-the-sport/)

After the reception President Donald Trump received at the recent World Series game in Washington D.C. — he was soundly booed — it wouldn't have been a surprise if UFC president Dana White had tried to talk Trump out of attending last night's UFC 244 event, which took place at New York City's Madison Square Garden.No such thing happened. Trump did receive a mixed reaction from the crowd when he entered the arena, but White took that in stride. The UFC boss looked at the big picture of Trump attending the fight card.
"Whoever you are, this is America. You can believe or do whatever you want. If you want to boo, you can boo," White said at the post-fight press conference. "As an American, you can do whatever you want to do, and you can choose whatever side you want to be on. So I just felt like tonight we were going to walk in and whatever happened, happened. The guy told me as a friend he was coming to see the fights, and he did tonight, and I appreciate him, and it was a big night for the sport."
Trump decided to head to the event after he and White spent some time together in October.
"We had dinner last Thursday at the White House, and he said 'I'm coming," White said. "I'm coming to New York'. And I was like 'Oh my god! That's going to be a rough one! Why don't we do Vegas on the 14th (December)? And New York was the only one that he could do, so he came tonight."
White seems to feel he owes Trump a debt of gratitude. In 2012, White pointed out that it was Trump who offered Zuffa the opportunity to hold its first two UFC events at Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort in Atlantic City.
"It's actually kind of fun for me (to return to Atlantic City)," White said. "I'm happy about that because that's where we started. When we first bought this company, no venues would even take us. Donald Trump was the first guy to say, 'We'll do the fights here.'
"Donald Trump gave us our first shot over at (his arena), and then when we left and went to a bigger arena at the Meadowlands, he was one of the first guys there in his seat. He watched the whole card."
UFC 244 took place at Madison Square Garden in New York City. The pay-per-view card streamed on ESPN+ following prelims on ESPN2 and early prelims on ESPN+ and UFC Fight Pass. 
Jorge Masvidal defeated Nate Diaz in the main event of UFC 244. The fight ended by doctor stoppage at the end of the third round. Masvidal captured the BMF title for his win.

        More From UFC 244:
      
