
# Revealed: North Ayrshire's shocking drugs death toll for 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:11:09+00:00**

Author: **Irvine Herald, Sarah Hilley, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/irvine-herald/, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/sarah-hilley/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/revealed-north-ayrshires-shocking-drugs-20816432)

A shocking 34 people have reportedly died after taking drugs in North Ayrshire this year. 
The tragic number of suspected drug-related deaths in 2019 emerged in a recent Integration Joint Board meeting, which oversees health and social care.
Now new funding will be put up to help tackle the problem.
In North Ayrshire, the Irvine and the Three Towns localities have a higher risk of people losing their lives after taking illegal substances.
Integration Joint Board Chair Councillor Robert Foster described the drug deaths as a “public health problem”.
The Labour councillor said: “We all have a duty to work together to stop these tragic deaths from occurring.”
 
North Ayrshire Alcohol and Drug Partnership chair Paul Main said: “When the National Records for Scotland publish in July 2020 I would anticipate that the number of drug deaths in North Ayrshire will have increased. I don’t take any pride in saying that.” 
He said there are no “easy” or “quick” answers and solutions to the issue would require strength of leadership and a “collaboration that probably doesn’t exist anywhere in Scotland just now”.
A drug death prevention group has been set up.  There is a push to supply more of the life-saving injection Naloxone, which can reverse heroin and other opioids overdoses. Over the last year 220 of the kits were handed out. At least 13 lives have been saved. 
Another plan includes addicts getting access to clean needles at clinics and pharmacies. Regular drug screening and increased availability of opiate substitution therapy are also on the agenda.
 
Last year there were 38 drug deaths in the area and North Ayrshire Council has already declared a drugs death emergency.
At a meeting last month Councillor Louise McPhater called for safe rooms and for possession of illegal substances to be decriminalised.
She said she lost her sister to drug addiction in 2011 and added: “I don’t want to go to another funeral of a 17-year-old or a 25-year-old or a 31-year-old and I don’t want to visit a newborn baby born with an addiction.
“There is great work going on but we need to look at this in a different way.”
A report presented to the integration joint board said: “The Alcohol and Drug Partnership have identified £50,000 to encourage and attract innovative suggestions and proposals from the communities of Irvine and the Three Towns locality.”
