
# Plymouth snubbed by Coca Cola Christmas truck for second successive year

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:25:03+00:00**

Author: **Jak Ball**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/family-kids/plymouth-snubbed-coca-cola-christmas-3497593)

For a second successive year, Plymouth will not be getting a visit from the Coca Cola Christmas truck.
Every year people all over the country eagerly anticipate the ringing bells from the popular advert for the first time.
It is a sign that Christmas is on the way and gives people that warm festive feeling.
Such was the popularity, a decision was made to take the truck out on the road to visit cities all over the country.
Plymouth has been a destination for the truck before, including on one occasion where the event had to be shut down as crowds were so big that they were spilling into Royal Parade traffic.
It last came to the city in 2017 with people queueing from 9.30am to get a glimpse of the festive vehicle at 11am.
Christmas carols blurted out on big speakers and snow was also projected.
Such was the cheer it brought, some of those waiting in the queues took to dancing.
But there will be no such frivolities in 2019, as was confirmed by chief executive of Plymouth City Centre Company Steve Hughes.
Asked by Chaz Singh via Twitter whether it had been booked, he simply replied: "No, not this year."
The official tour locations have not yet been released by Coca Cola but last year the closest the truck came to Plymouth was Exeter, where it visited Princesshay shopping centre.
It also visited Looe where it was parked at the seafront.
