
# Buy a classic Guardian photograph: A farmer at work, 1939

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:00:15+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/2019/nov/01/buy-a-classic-guardian-photograph-a-farmer-at-work-1939)


        Our weekly series of exclusive Guardian print sales is a photograph of a farmer bringing in cabbages from the Guardian archive
      
A farmer gathers huge winter cabbages for his cattle in the hamlet of Morley, Cheshire, slinging them on to the back of his horse-drawn cart. This evocative Guardian Archive image – taken either by Walter Doughty, the paper’s first photographer, who joined in 1908, or Tom Stuttard, who joined in 1925 and worked alongside Doughty – was published in what was then the Manchester Guardian in November 1939. It depicts a rural England far removed from the horrors of the second world war, which was then in its early days.

        Buy your exclusive print here
      
Price £50, including free delivery
PrintsPhotographs are 30x40cm and presented on museum-grade, fine-art paper stocks, with archival standards guaranteeing quality for 100+ years. All editions are printed and quality-checked by experts at theprintspace, the UK’s leading photo and fine-art print provider.
DeliveryArtworks are dispatched via Royal Mail and delivered within three to five working days. theprintspace takes great care in packaging your artwork, with a no-quibble satisfaction guarantee should you be unhappy in any way. Global shipping is available.
ContactEmail: guardianprintsales@theprintspace.co.uk | Phone: 0207 324 7103 (Lines open 10am – 6pm, Monday – Saturday)
