
# Mitsubishi L200 Barbarian X – Pick-up is all set to pick up sales

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:44:50+00:00**

Author: **Maggie Barry, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/maggie-barry/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/motoring/mitsubishi-l200-barbarian-x--20828125)

I KNEW Mitsubishi were on to a winner as soon as my daughter cast her eye over the L200 on my driveway and pronounced herself very much in the market for a pick-up.
Here is a gal who is very particular about her cars – indeed there is definitely a touch of the Daisy Duke about her – but there she was seriously looking at a pick-up.
It confirms all my feelings that pick-ups are going to be the next big thing in the motoring world – and the Japanese marque's L200 has just won this category at the Association of Scottish Motoring Writers’ Scottish Car of the Year (SCOTY) Awards.
Of course, Mitsubishi have been making pick-ups for 40 years and so are experts in the field. Indeed, this is the sixth generation L200 and, since 1978, when they first started making them, Mitsubishi have sold a phenomenal 4.7million.
This latest generation takes the car to a whole new level. As pick-ups become more popular, their interiors are becoming far more plush.
In the top-of-the-range Barbarian X trim, it oozes style and comfort, with leather seats, front and rear mood lighting, illuminated door sills and an easy-to-use entertainment and information system.
It’s no shrinking violet on the outside, either. The car I was driving came in the fabulous pearlescent Sunflare Orange with running boards, grab handles, a double cab, squared off wheel arches and what Mitsubishi call their Dynamic Shield Design – a new nose and bags of street presence.
 

        The Mitsubishi L200 Series 6 Barbarian X View gallery
      
And while the running boards look terrific, they are also very practical if, like me, you are a bit of a shorty. There are more steps at the rear for easy access to the flatbed and a host of accessories such as sport bars, sport hoops, top boxes, roller shutters and bed liners.
I could see why my daughter was so smitten. At the same time, however, the L200 has lost none of the practicality that has kept it so popular for the last four decades.
In fact, it has been further enhanced. The chassis has been strengthened and stronger brakes have been fitted to deal with a payload that has increased from 1045kg to 1080kg. In real terms, that means it can carry five people and 250kg while still towing 3.5 tonnes.
It can be switched from two to four-wheel drive at speeds of up to 62mph so that, if conditions turn nasty, help is immediately at hand. The Super Select 4WD II offers four drive options for hard off-roading – 2H, 4H, 4H with a locked diff and 4LLc, a low ratio with a locked diff.
Alongside Mitsubishi have fitted off-road driving modes for gravel, mud and snow, sand and rock and hill descent control for extra traction on steep gradients between 2mph and 12mph.
It comes with a host of safety systems, too, but the best feature of the lot, as far as my daughter was concerned, is the price.
The L200 starts at £21,515 plus VAT for the single-cab model and runs right through the range until you get to the big boy in front of my house with all the bells and whistles on board and costing only £32,200 plus VAT. If pick-ups are the future of driving Mitsubishi are in a great position.
