
# Mayor's Urban Design Awards honour outstanding work in Calgary

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:04:57+00:00**

Author: **Josh Skapin**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/life/homes/new-homes/mayors-urban-design-awards-honour-outstanding-work-in-calgary)

An innovative infill community in west Calgary and an upscale townhome development in University District were winners at this year’s Mayor’s Urban Design Awards.
These honours, held every second year, recognize the standout work of designers, architects and artists in Calgary. This year’s winners and submissions that earned honourable mentions were unveiled during a gala event at the Calgary Central Library on Oct. 24.
“Recognizing the people behind our vibrant buildings and spaces in our city is important,” said David Down, the City’s chief urban designer. “Well-designed space make people feel welcome, improves safety and accessibility and creates a memorable sense of place.”
There were 98 entries evaluated across the competition’s 12 categories.
Truman took the stage twice, with a win from its new west Calgary community of West District and an honourable mention for Noble, a townhome development in University District.
The West District master plan captured the award for City Edge Development.
“It is an acknowledgement from the peers in our industry, from all the world, that we are on the right track creating a memorable experience and a truly unique and livable community not only for our residents of West District but Calgary as a whole,” says Tony Trutina, Truman’s chief operating officer.
On what led to the win, Trutina points to its level of design, planning within the public realm, and array of land uses that he says “makes the community of West District an experience as much as an address.”
Dubbed Radio Park, West District’s 3.6-hectare (nine-acre) central park is the community’s crown jewel, says the developer.
“Everything from the customized street lights, unique sidewalk design and construction with patterned and textured concrete, customized bike racks and waste bins, complemented by Calgary’s only integrated raised bike paths and an abundance of carefully crafted mature landscaping of our High Street, called Broadcast Avenue, are all elements that help push this vision forward,” says Trutina.
The other winner in this year’s competition, belonging to Calgary’s new home market, was the Ivy by Brookfield Residential in University District, picking up a People’s Choice award.
“The Ivy being chosen by Calgarians means our focus on livability is working and our goal to create great places for people to belong is getting noticed,” says Ryan Moon, Brookfield’s director of multi-family business development.
This was Brookfield’s first multi-family development in the new mixed-use northwest Calgary community near the University of Calgary.
“The Ivy has three unique architectural styles that all highlight urban living, staying true to the University District’s vision,” he adds. “The Ivy makes it possible to respect the environment and live well in one of Calgary’s most impressive neighbourhoods.”
Truman’s Noble, a multi-family development also in University District, and Park Point, a condo skyscraper by Qualex-Landmark in Calgary’s Beltine District each earned an honourable mention in the Urban Architecture category.
“We are thrilled to have Park Point recognized for excellence in urban design and achievement in enhancing the quality of life in Calgary,” says Jordan Beach, Qualex-Landmark’s vice-president, sales and marketing. “Qualex-Landmark is deeply committed to building homes that continue to exceed homeowners’ expectations.”
In the Housing Innovation category, Rosedale Affordable Housing led the way, joined by honourable mentions to Life by Rndsqr and Cube by Strategic Group.
The full results are available here.
