
# Indy Football Podcast: Liverpool, the Fifa Club World Cup and how much football is too much football?

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:17:54+00:00**

Author: **Sports Staff**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/premier-league/indy-football-podcast-listen-download-now-liverpool-fixtures-club-world-cup-a9188046.html)

This week on the Indy Football Podcast, we ask: how much football is too much football?
Luke Brown is joined by columnist Tony Evans and sports reporter Lawrence Ostlere to discuss the seemingly endless amount of fixtures.
They hear from Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp and wonder how on earth the Reds will manage playing in two cup competitions on two different continents in such a short period of time.
The team also discuss the merits of the Fifa Club World Cup. Is it a serious tournament that should be respected? Or a bit of pointless fun in the mould of the International Champions Cup?
There is also enough time to talk about the future of international football, England’s domestic cup competitions and for Tony to rant about rugby union. Spoiler alert: He isn’t a great fan.

        As ever, follow us on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to stay up to date with the latest football news.
      

        
          Click play above to listen to the latest episode, which is also available on iTunes, acast and all other podcast providers (if the audio is not appearing on your mobile, you may need to view on desktop or download the podcast).
        
      
