
# 2020 Ranger RTR Joins Tuner's Lineup Of Modified Fords

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:37:16+00:00**

Author: **Christopher Smith**

Original: [Motor1.com](https://www.motor1.com/news/380868/ranger-rtr-modified-fords-sema/?utm_source=RSS&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=RSS-all-)

You’re likely familiar with the Ford Mustang RTR, and you might also know about the RTR-tweaked F-150. Now, RTR Vehicles is extending its presence into the midsize pickup truck realm with the 2020 Ford Ranger RTR, recently unveiled at the 2019 SEMA Show.
Whereas RTR’s Mustang can be built as a rip-snorting muscle machine, the new Ranger emphasizes aesthetic enhancements with minor performance upgrades. Immediately noticeable is RTR’s trademark LED grille that replaces the stock unit. Fender flares front and rear add a bit more width to the pickup, with the front flares also incorporating functional vents for the otherwise stock 2.3-liter turbocharged four-cylinder engine.
An RTR graphics package adorns the rear of the truck, and it rides on 17-inch RTR wheels with meaty off-road tires. RTR-branded fender vents along with special floor liners and a serialized dash plaque complete the visual changes.
As for performance, RTR swaps out the Ranger’s suspension in favor of a Fox 2.0 coilover setup. A Ford Performance exhaust system is installed, though RTR doesn’t list any horsepower increase as a result. Optional Ranger RTR upgrades include a leather package for the interior, and a revamped RTR grille with an LED light bar.
Since returning to the U.S. market, the Ford Ranger has become a popular vehicle for tuning companies to tackle. Pretty much every custom Ranger we’ve seen offers upgraded suspension at the very least, and with a Ford Ranger Raptor available outside the U.S., we suspect Ford is watching the market for these tuned versions very closely.
As for the Ranger RTR, the package is a $9,800 addition over a stock truck, and it can be dealer-installed on any Ranger model at select Ford dealers.
Source: RTR Vehicles
SEMA - LAS VEGAS, NEVADA, NOV 5, 2019 — With the Ford Mustang RTR and F-150 RTR having solidified their place in the market, RTR Vehicles debuts the new 2020 Ford Ranger RTR, the second pickup truck offering and third Ford vehicle model available for purchase today on rtrvehicles.com and at select Ford dealers globally. The new Ranger RTR is able to be built on almost any Ranger trim level available through Ford and comes with RTR’s signature style and Tactical Performance Packages.1
Entering the mid-size truck market for the first time, the Ranger RTR represents all of RTR Vehicles’ learnings from the F-150 RTR into a smaller, more nimble, and capable off-road package. The Ranger RTR is immediately recognized by its signature RTR grille with LED lighting, enhanced fender flares—the fronts, which include functional vents acting as intake induction points2—and RTR graphics package. Improving on the already capable off-road chops, the Ranger RTR includes a Fox 2.0 suspension kit, Nitto Ridge Grappler tires and 17-inch RTR Tech 6 off-road wheels.3 A Ford Performance cat-back exhaust4 rounds out the performance features of the Ranger RTR.
“I’m really excited about bringing the RTR Vehicles style, attention to detail and performance enhancements to the new Ford Ranger,” said Vaughn Gittin Jr., RTR Vehicles President. Gittin continues, “being an off-road enthusiast and a lover of the great outdoors, I am in love with the way the Ford Ranger RTR can allow you to explore roads and lands less traveled. The smaller footprint of the Ranger RTR allows navigation on narrow canyons and the tight trails that you find off the grid. The Ranger RTR has the capability to traverse all terrains and looks great doing it! I especially love the RTR Graphics Package featuring our take on a topographic map. The goal with the Ranger RTR is to inspire our customers to step out of the boundaries, get off the road, enjoy the outdoors and do some exploring! As with every RTR Vehicle we produce, our goal I to offer a unique and fun owner and driving experience whether on-road or off.”
Available for purchase now, the $9,800 Ford dealer-installed package includes a host of interior, exterior and performance upgrades as well as optional RTR Leather Package and RTR grille w/LED light bar available for purchase as options. For package details, dealer and pricing information, as well as how to become an RTR Vehicles dealer, please head to rtrvehicles.com.
