
# Leader of Partizan Belgrade ultra group shot dead ahead of Man Utd clash

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:32:46+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/leader-partizan-belgrade-ultra-group-20827647)

A Partizan Belgrade hooligan leader - who once featured on "Real Football Factories" - has been shot dead as hundreds of the Serbian side's fans descend on Manchester for the Europa League clash.
Ljubomir Markovic, 37, was killed in the Serbian capital Belgrade as he was standing in the street, with the incident captured on CCTV cameras.
In footage seen by The Mirror, Markovic - who was allegedly the leader of the 'Alcatraz' gang of Partizan hooligans - and a group of his friends can be seen standing in front of a small local football stadium when a hooded man walks up to them.
The thug pulls out a pistol and opens fire on Markovic who sprints away. The gunman runs after him and the Partizan hooligan can be seen dropping to the ground.
Local media report six shots were fired, with the final bullet hitting Markovic's head and killing him. Reports also state the killer fled the scene in a black BMW X5 with licence plates from the western Siberian city of Sabac.
A police investigation was launched and reports state Markovic himself was armed at the time of the attack but did not have time to use the weapon.
Markovic appeared in the Bravo documentary 'The Real Football Factories International', starring Danny Dyer.
He was sentenced to 30 years in prison for the organised assault and murder of French football supporter Bruce Taton in 2009, but his sentence was reduced to 15 years and he was released from prison early this year.
Markovic leaves behind his wife and two-year-old daughter. Police are working to find a motive for the crime and the investigation is ongoing.
The attack comes before Partizan Belgrade take on Manchester United at Old Trafford on Thursday.
