
# Save $50 On The Waterproof JBL Flip 5 Bluetooth Speaker

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:15:30+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-jbl-flip-5-black-friday-sale-cheap-price.html)

Black Friday has come early for the JBL Flip 5. It is already being discounted by $50, bringing the price down to just $99.
The JBL Flip 5, is the latest in its lineup of pretty good waterproof and affordable Bluetooth speakers. It's rated at IPX7 for waterproofing, which means that it can be submerged for up to 30 minutes. And it'll keep playing while it's in the water too. Which is pretty neat, as you're going to be able to toss it in the pool and keep the music for the party going the entire time.
When it comes to battery life, we're looking at around 12 hours on a single charge. That's not bad, and in fact, that's right in line with other speakers of this size.
Advertisement
Now the sound quality on the JBL Flip 5 is pretty much what you'd expect, especially if you've used a JBL speaker before. The mids and highs are going to be crystal clear, with some pretty decent bass. Now it's not going to be overpowering, but you'll definitely hear the bass, which is always good.
Speaking of sound, you can also pair the JBL Flip 5 with other JBL speakers including other Flip 5 speakers. For a really cool party feature, or even just for a stereo system in your office and such. You can pair up to 50 speakers, so you can really keep the party going and make the house really jump. Definitely a cool feature to have.
The JBL Flip 5 is going to make for a really great stocking stuffer this holiday season, or just for a Secret Santa at your office or among your extended family. Though, this price is not going to last long, so you're going to want to grab this before it's gone. The JBL Flip 5 likely won't be much cheaper come Black Friday either.
Advertisement
You can pick up the JBL Flip 5 from Amazon by clicking here.

        JBL Flip 5 - Amazon - $99
      
