
# OMFBurger: Eat this monster fast enough and this guy will pay you 10,000 baht

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:06:26+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Bangkok**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/bangkok/food-drink/omfburger-eat-this-monster-fast-enough-and-this-guy-will-pay-you-10000-baht/)

An insanely intense food challenge is here to test our biggest appetites. Diners are dared to devour possibly the largest burger in Thai history to win a not-bad-sized cash prize.
A burger joint tucked away in the capital’s Bangkok Noi district, Chris Steaks and Burgers, has created what they’re calling the country’s biggest burger dubbed the “10,000 Cal Burger” and offering THB10,000 (US$330) — 1 baht for each calorie — to whoever – limited to no more than three mouths – that can finish the mega meal within nine minutes.

        
          Challenge accepted: Bangkok’s tallest burgers have arrived
        
      
As its name suggests, the mammoth sandwich is 10,000 calories and weighs up to 6 kilograms. It features 4 kilograms of meat, 1 kilogram of bacon, 22 cheese sheets, fried onion rings and three types of French fries (original, BBQ and cheese).
Burgers with beef patties are priced at THB2,500 while the pork versions sell for THB3,500.
“Making a burger that’s THIS big and tasty, it’s not easy,” restaurant owner Komdech “Chris” Kongsuwun said, adding that he has invested a lot of money to come up with the formula to make the gigantic burger while the ingredients are well-balanced for flavor.
Wanting to boost the sales of his burgers, Chris partnered with bodybuilder-food YouTuber Anuthep “Yong” Chawengchutichot of 10,000 Cal Muscle for the project.
Yong brought in a group of three who finished the burger within 9 minutes and 20 seconds, which set the record.
