
# La Liga Title Race Open As FC Barcelona Lose, Real Madrid Held At Home

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Robert Kidd**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/robertkidd/2019/11/02/la-liga-title-race-open-as-fc-barcelona-lose-real-madrid-held-at-home/)

It’s only 11 matches into the season, but Barcelona has already lost as many league matches as it did in the whole of last season’s title-winning campaign.The 2017/18 season, when Barca was also crowned champion, it lost a single match.
Before a surprise 3-1 defeat earlier today at Levante, Barcelona had won five matches in a row in the league. Lionel Messi’s return after injury has, inevitably, coincided with the improvement and the club was a big favorite in today’s match.
I was at the match and Levante was well worth its victory. The first half was tight, with Messi’s penalty – his 500th goal with his left foot – the difference between the sides.
For the first 15 minutes of the second half, Barca seemed in control. Levante hadn’t had a chance of note and a second goal would have likely killed off the match.
But, in seven mad minutes, Levante scored three times. The goals were part incisive attacks and part limp defending. It was reward, though, for a positive approach from the home side. Levante was not overawed by the star-studded line-up.
And it is not the first side to have humbled the Catalan giants this season. Barca lost at Granada and Athletic Bilbao and escaped with a draw from Osasuna. It has conceded 14 goals – the same as 18th-placed Celta Vigo.  
Perhaps the most surprising thing about Barca’s indifferent start to the season is the club is – at the time of writing – still top of the league.
If Barcelona is to win a third consecutive title, it will almost certainly have to improve and find some consistency. But if another club is to take the crown, it will need to step up soon.
Real Madrid, Barca’s eternal rival, has only lost one match so far. But it has drawn four. The squad looks in need of some freshening up and coach Zinedine Zidane was clearly hoping for one or two star names in the last transfer window who never arrived.
Real, like Barca, looks especially unconvincing away from home. It lost its last away outing at newly-promoted Mallorca, and was indebted to a late Gareth Bale goal in a 2-2 draw at Villarreal. Bale is likely to leave in January so Real will again be relying heavily on Karim Benzema for goals. If summer signing Eden Hazard can find the form he is capable of, he will also be a potent weapon against opposition defences.
Any talk about title challengers also has to include Atlético Madrid, the team that finished runner-up to Barca in the past two seasons. Atlético had a summer of change with key players like Diego Godin, Rodri, Lucas Hernandez and Antoine Griezmann leaving. The proceeds were reinvested in new signings, the most eye-catching of which was teenage sensation João Félix.
A tricky transition year might have been expected from Diego Simeone’s side, but Atlético started the season like a team with eyes for the title. It won the first three matches of the season before the hiccups started. A defeat at Real Sociedad was manageable but the real disappointment so far has been drawing too many matches that should have been wins. The uncertain starts by rivals means Atlético is still third, but four draws in its last five matches isn’t title-winning form.
So, with the big three stumbling, could this be the first year since 2004 that another club wins La Liga?
It would be a huge shock and the reality is, patchy form notwithstanding, the top three are on paper the three strongest squads.
Of the other challengers, Granada, promoted this season, has made a fantastic start. The club will go top if it beats Real Sociedad tomorrow. It’s an incredible achievement, but sustaining it over a 38-match season is another matter.
Sevilla, currently fourth, has also had a lot of player incomings and outgoings over the summer. A fourth-placed finish – earning a Champions League place at the end of the season – would be the number one goal for the club this season.
Valencia, the last side outside the big three to win the league, is currently ninth having already changed its head coach.
Even if it is to be one of the top three crowned champions, if things continue like this it could be one of the most open title races in years.
