
# Making Sense Of Salesforce.com’s Cash Flow From Operations Figure

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/01/making-sense-of-salesforcecoms-cash-flow-from-operations-figure/)

Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM) is one of the most well-known cloud CRM companies, and has grown considerably over the years through several targeted acquisitions. While this has driven revenue growth, the risk in the company has also expanded significantly. In our opinion, salesforce.com is no longer the cash-generating enterprise it used to be. Notably, the company has been relying on large non-cash items to offset lukewarm cash profits.Trefis details various components of Salesforce.com’s operating cash flows in an interactive dashboard. The company’s subscription-driven business model has allowed the company to convert over 25% of its revenue into cash from operations over the last 3 years. While the contribution of cash profits to cash from operations has grown and the contribution of non-cash items has declined over recent years, non-cash items still contribute nearly 82% to cash from operations.
1. Changes in deferred revenue:
2. ESOPs expense:

        Why This Matters
      
 
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
