
# Skip Black Friday Lines With These Deals On Tech 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Finds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/05/skip-black-friday-lines-with-these-deals-on-tech/)

Black Friday marks the official beginning of the holiday shopping season. It's the busiest shopping day of the year, as shoppers line up to try and snag crazy deals on the products they've been looking at all year long. It's become a holiday of its own for bargain hunters and extreme shoppers. Considering that the best deals on electronics are often found online anyway, do you really want to brave the lines?While Black Friday is a great time to stock up on electronics, some retailers announce massive deals at the beginning of November. We've gone through the early Black Friday deals on tech to find the most exceptional bargains on laptops, home audio and cameras to help you spring on these deals while they last.
The Canon E05 Rebel is one of the most popular DSLRs on the market and for good reason. Its rugged, reliable build combined with smooth, intuitive hardware makes for a camera that can shoot anything from Wedding or Portrait Photography to Sports or Fashion. It even films video at 1080p HD resolution, so you can shoot behind-the-scenes film of your photoshoots or start your own YouTube channel.  
The Canon E05 Rebel is also known for its reasonable price point, making it a favorite for smartphone photographers looking to join the world of DSLRs. Now it's even cheaper to do so, as you can save $150 on the Canon EO5 on Amazon.
This bundle deals also comes with 18-55mm lens and a 75-300mm, meaning you can shoot both close-ups as well as long distances straight out of the box. A carrying sweetens the deal, as far as accessories go. As if this weren't enough, they're throwing in a free 32GB memory card. DSLRs use up a lot of memory, so you'll be needing that.  

        
          Shop Now
        
      

        GoPro Hero7 Black
      
The GoPro Hero7 Black may be marketed as an action cam, but in reality, it’s an excellent camera for any occasion. The camera is capable of recording video at 4K at 60 frames per second or 1,080p at up to an impressive 240 frames per second. That’s perfect for capturing those high-movement shots.
The camera is ultra-portable too. It measures in at only 2.44 inches wide and 1.26 inches thick and has a built-in gyroscope to help ensure that footage is relatively shake-free, and once you’re done recording, it’s easy to transfer your footage using the accompanying app.
The GoPro Hero7 Black is available from Amazon for $326, which is $74 off its normal price of $400. That marks one of the best discounts we’ve seen for the camera so far.

        Canon EOS 5D Mark IV
      
If you’re looking for something a little more professional, then there are some other great deals to consider. For example, the Canon EOS 5D Mark IV is available at a huge discount.
This camera is easily one of the best DSLR cameras on the market. It has all the features you would expect from a high-end camera, plus it has a touch screen for easy control, an excellent autofocus system, great connectivity features and more. It can shoot video in 4K, so you’ll get excellent-quality video performance, and it has a burst mode capable of capturing 7 photos per second. 
This particular deal is for the body only, so you will have to buy lenses separately. That said, you’re saving a ton of cash here — you can get the camera for only $2,499 — which is a massive $800 off its normal price.

        Panasonic Lumix DMC-G7
      
The Panasonic Lumix DMC-G7 is a much-loved mirrorless camera, and it’s a great way to go if you’re looking for something that’s ultra-high-quality, relatively portable and offers a ton of smart features.
The Lumix DMC-G7 offers Panasonic’s Venus Engine 9 image processor, which helps ensure that all your shots are stunning. It can capture 8 images per second in burst mode, has an excellent autofocus system and is even capable of recording 4K footage — so it might be the way to go if you capture a lot of video.
This particular kit isn’t just for the camera either — you’ll also get 14-42mm and 45-150mm lenses, ensuring that you’ll have everything you need to get started right away. The camera can be yours from B&H Photo for $498— which is an impressive $500 off its normal price of $998.
Maybe you've been promising yourself this would be the year you take up developing. Or perhaps you just need a more powerful machine for work. Or, you're a gamer who's sick of getting left behind in the dungeons.
Whoever you are, if you're looking for a powerful laptop at a great price, we've got you covered.

        Surface Laptop 3
      
The Microsoft Surface line of products has long offered one of the best Windows 10 experiences out there, and the Surface Laptop 3 is no exception to that. The laptop is stylish, sleek and ultra-powerful, making it a great choice for the professional who needs a high-end laptop.
The Surface Laptop 3 base model comes with an Intel Core i5 processor, along with 8GB of RAM and 128GB of storage. You can configure it to be even more powerful, too. The laptop is super portable too, coming in at only 0.57 inches, and it offers the highly versatile Windows 10 operating system.
Normally, the Surface Laptop 3 comes at $1,299+, but it’s available now starting at $999.

        Surface Pro 7 Bundle with the Type Cover
      
The Surface Laptop isn’t the only discounted computer from Microsoft. The new Surface Pro 7 bundle with the Type Cover is also available at $180 off its normal price.
This particular model of the Surface Pro 7 offers an Intel Core i3 processor, along with 4GB of RAM and 128GB of storage. In other words, this device should be more than powerful enough for most users. It’s also super well-designed and portable, and it can be used as a tablet just as easily as it can be used as a laptop. This bundle also comes with the Type Cover keyboard accessory, which also protects the device when it’s not in use.
Whether you’re looking for something simply to browse the web with, to do some basic image editing with, or to type up documents for work, the Surface Pro 7 is an excellent option.
Whether you're a home theater appreciator or a hi-fi audiophile or a student looking for noise-canceling headphones, there's something here for you in the early Black Friday deals.
Sometimes you just want a simple pair of earbuds and you don't want to pay a mint for them. We all know the factory-made earbuds that come complimentary aren't worth much, but sometimes you want something light and portable, in case you're on the move or not looking for a loud accessory.
Beats by Dr. Dre is synonymous with quality, so you know you're getting something good with the urBeats3 Earphones. They feature an optimized ergonomic fit so they're comfortable to wear all day, every day. They'll bring some much-appreciated peace to your day with a special noise-isolating design.
All of this for 50 percent the regular price. $60 at Amazon, normally retailing for $100.

        
          Shop Now
        
      

        Bose Home Speaker 300
      
Bose has long been known for building some of the best speakers and headphones on the market, and the Bose Home Speaker 300 is a perfect example. The speaker looks good, sounds great and has Amazon’s Alexa built right into it, meaning that you can use your voice to control smart home devices, search the web and more.
As with any other Bose product, the Bose Home Speaker 300 also sounds pretty great. The speaker offers plenty of bass and a decent amount of clarity in the high frequencies. It has Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and AirPlay 2 connectivity as well, so you should be able to play music from your phone or computer, which is a handy touch.
The Bose Home Speaker 300 looks great as well. It has a sleek black color and will look right at home in any living room. While it normally comes at $259, ahead of Black Friday Amazon is offering it for $199.

        JBL Flip 5
      
If you like the idea of a wireless speaker but don’t want to spend the cash on the Bose Home Speaker 300, then it’s worth considering the JBL Flip 5. The Flip 5 also offers a sleek and stylish design, is easy to use and sounds pretty good. Not only that, but the speaker is also portable — so it’s a great choice for taking to the beach or on the road.
The JBL Flip 5 offers a decent amount of bass response, plenty of detail in the high frequencies and more. It’s built around Bluetooth, so you can easily stream music to it from your phone or another device. It’s even water-resistant with a rating of IPX7, so you can use it near the pool or at the beach without having to worry about it getting damaged.
Usually, the speaker comes at $119.95, but in the lead-up to Black Friday, it’s available for $99.95, or $20 off.
That about does it for this round-up. The early Black Friday deals are already coming fast and furious and it's only going to get more intense from here on out.
At Forbes Finds, we are dedicated to bringing you the latest news, most in-depth reviews and the greatest deals on everything from fashion to tech to lifestyle accessories.
Whether you're just looking for early Black Friday deals on tech or looking for in-depth product round-ups and reviews, we've got you covered. Sign up for a Forbes blog account today, follow the blog, or subscribe to the RSS feed!
