
# Extinction Rebellion protesters may sue Met as ban ruled unlawful

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:26:43+00:00**

Author: **Damien Gayle, Vikram Dodd**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2019/nov/06/police-ban-on-extinction-rebellion-protests-ruled-illegal-by-high-court)


        Section 14 order issued to halt protest across London was not legitimate, high court rules
      
Hundreds of Extinction Rebellion protesters may sue the Metropolitan police for unlawful arrest after the high court quashed an order banning the group’s protests in London last month.
Mr Justice Dingemans and Mr Justice Chamberlain said the Met’s section 14 order that XR “must now cease their protests within London” was unlawful because it went beyond the powers granted to police by the Public Order Act 1986.
In a judicial review ruling handed down on Wednesday morning, the judges said the Met had been wrong to define Extinction Rebellion’s two-week long “autumn uprising” as a single public assembly on which it could impose the order.
“Separate gatherings, separated both in time and by many miles, even if coordinated under the umbrella of one body, are not a public assembly under the meaning of section 14(1) of the 1986 act,” Dingemans said.
“The XR autumn uprising intended to be held from 14 to 19 October was not therefore a public assembly … therefore the decision to impose the condition was unlawful because there was no power to impose it.”
The ban was “hastily imposed [and] erratically applied”, said Jules Carey, partner at Bindmans and part of the team that brought the judicial review claim.
“This judgment is a timely reminder to those in authority facing a climate of dissent: the right to protest is a longstanding fundamental right in a democratic society that should be guarded and not prohibited by overzealous policing.”
The strong judgment striking down the ban is a huge embarrassment for the Met, which had insisted in the face of criticism that it was lawful. It now faces potential claims from hundreds of protesters arrested for breaching the order, which ran across London from 9pm on Monday 14 October until 6pm the following Friday.
“It’s a very expensive mistake for the Metropolitan police,” said Carey. Anyone arrested under the order could now have a claim against the Met for false imprisonment, he said. If force was used against them, they could have a further claim for assault.
“I’m sure most of them would want to start off with an apology for the ordeal that they experienced, but all of them could potentially be awarded several thousands of pounds depending on how long they were arrested for and whether force was used against them.”
The judicial review was brought on behalf of XR by Jenny Jones, Caroline Lucas and Ellie Chowns of the Green party, the Labour MPs Clive Lewis and David Drew, the Labour activist Adam Allnutt and the Guardian columnist George Monbiot.
Monbiot, who was arrested while taking part in XR protests around Trafalgar Square directly addressing the Met’s imposition of the section 14 order, said he was considering taking legal action.
He said: “The important thing is that the attempt by the police to quash our democratic right to dissent has been overturned. Non-violent civil disobedience is essential to the health of our democracy, in fact, there would be no democracy without it. What the police were doing is draconian and over the top, and they were directly infringing our democratic right to protest.
“The Public Order Act itself is highly illiberal legislation which has a major chilling effect on protest, as do several of its successor acts … police have this wide range of tools for shutting down protest and one thing I would like to see coming out of this is much more discussion about those tools, the wide range of powers police have to shut down democracy.”
