
# Ally McCoist delivers emphatic Celtic and Rangers verdict as he hails Europa League heroics

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:20:15+00:00**

Author: **Liam Bryce, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/liam-bryce/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/ally-mccoist-delivers-emphatic-celtic-20821729)

Ally McCoist believes Celtic and Rangers have been "a breath of fresh air" in the Europa League this season.
The Glasgow giants are both in contention to qualify for the knock out stage after big performances against Lazio and Porto last time out.
Neil Lennon's side came from behind to stun the Italians at Parkhead and a repeat result at the Stadio Olimpico on Thursday could see Celtic through if results elsewhere go their way.
Rangers, meanwhile, are bidding to follow up an impressive draw in Portugal with three points against the Primeira Liga big guns.
And Ibrox icon McCoist insists those exploits have provided a timely boost for Scottish football, with each result influencing the all-important UEFA coefficient.
"Celtic and Rangers have been a breath of fresh air," McCoist told talkSPORT.
"Celtic got a great result against Lazio at home, now that'll be very, very tough for them (in Rome).
"Rangers, I thought, were excellent in Porto and they've got a tough one at home.
"I think both teams are flying the flag, which is good to see - because we need a little bit of a boost, don't we?"
Celtic currently sit top of Group E on seven points, and victory in Rome combined with anything but a Rennes win against Cluj would clinch qualification.
Rangers' task is taller, with all four teams in Group G within three points of each other.
Steven Gerrard's side sit second with four points, two behind leaders Young Boys and level with Porto.
Feyenoord currently prop up the group with just three points.
