
# Danica Roem wins historic re-election in Virginia

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:31:00+00:00**

Author: **Amanda Hatfield**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/danica-roem-wins-historic-re-election-in-virginia/)

in 2017, Danica Roem, who is the lead vocalist of thrash metal band Cab Ride Home, made history by becoming the first openly transgender official to be elected to a state legislature in the US, in conservative-leaning Virginia, no less. Last night she continued that run, winning her re-election campaign against anti-LGBTQ and anti-abortion challenger Kelly McGinn with 56% of the vote, and becoming the first out transgender person to be re-elected.
“To the people of the 13th District,” she wrote following her second historic win, “thank you so much for the confidence you’ve shown in my team and me by such an overwhelming margin. I’m grateful to represent you because of who you are – never despite it. #NoH8 I’ll see you Nov. 20 at our next #fixRoute28 public hearing at 6 p.m. at Cougar Elementary School in Manassas Park.”
“Danica Roem has once again made history, becoming the longest-serving and first openly transgender elected official to be re-elected in our nation’s history,” Alphonso David, president of Human Rights Campaign President, said in a statement. “Throughout her tenure in the House of Delegates, Roem has remained focused on the needs of her constituents, despite hateful and divisive attacks from anti-LGBTQ groups and her opponents.”
There’s more good news out of Virginia this morning following Tuesday’s elections (11/5), as Democrats there won control of the state House and Senate, controlling all three branches of state government for the first time in over two decades, as The Associated Press reports. Among the losers was a candidate President Donald Trump personally endorsed, Republican Geary Higgins.
