
# Amazon Prime Adds Critical Role: The Legend of Vox Machina Animated Series

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:21:42+00:00**

Author: **Blair Marnell**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/471095-amazon-prime-adds-critical-role-the-legend-of-vox-machina-animated-series)

Earlier this year, Critical Role launched a Kickstarter campaign to create an animated special based on the roleplaying streaming show. However, the campaign was so successful that the project was changed to a full animated series. Over $11 million was raised to fund the show’s first season. Now, Amazon Prime is doubling up on Critical Role: The Legend of Vox Machina with a two season order.
Via Variety, the Critical Role team will also have a first look deal to develop new shows for Amazon Prime. The cast of Critical Role began streaming their Dungeons and Dragons campaign in 2015 on Geek and Sundry. However, the series eventually spawned its own channel and content.
Backers of The Legend of Vox Machina Kickstarter will be able to access the episodes before their debut on Amazon Prime.
Critical Role‘s Sam Riegel and Travis Willingham shared a statement about the new deal.
“We were absolutely floored by the level of enthusiasm we received on the Kickstarter campaign. And now we can deliver exactly what the fans wanted, and more…We’re psyched to be able to tell even more stories with not just one, but two 12-episode seasons!”
“Critical Role blazed a new trail for original digital content, with fresh new voices and humor that earned devoted fans around the world, as evidenced by their wildly successful Kickstarter campaign,” added Amazon Studios head Jennifer Salke.
Critical Role: The Legend of Vox Machina‘s first season is still in production. It will probably hit Amazon Prime in 2020.
Are you excited to hear that The Legend of Vox Machina is heading to Amazon? Let us know in the comment section below!
