
# Airdrie woman scoops big bucks after winning Radio Clyde's £5k minute quiz

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:43:04+00:00**

Author: **Airdrie and Coatbridge Advertiser, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/airdrie-and-coatbridge-advertiser/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/airdrie-woman-scoops-big-bucks-20815817)

Airdrie woman Pamela Bloomer is £5000 better off after being crowned as a winning quiz queen – thanks in part to her footballing neighbour’s new job.
She won the top prize in Clyde 1’s £5k Minute competition during the radio station’s breakfast show – becoming only the third jackpot winner this year.
Pamela faced an anxious wait after answering the quickfire questions to find out how many correct answers she would be credited with as presenter George Bowie and his show producer spent the duration of two songs debating her pronunciation of the name of Hollywood star Susan Sarandon.
The DJ awarded her all 10 jackpot-winning points; with another of the answers on her way to the total being an instant response when asked about the identity of Ayr United’s new manager – as she correctly named former Dundee United and Aberdeen player Mark Kerr, her neighbour for the past 10 years.
Mum-of-two Pamela, 44, said: “That question was a stroke of luck and Mark’s wife messaged as soon as she heard to congratulate me – she’s ecstatic for us.

        Click here for more from Airdrie and Coatbridge
      
Pamela said: “Winning Clyde 1’s £5k Minute is just amazing! I never win anything, so I still can’t believe it.”
The North Lanarkshire Council worker was assisted as she raced through the quiz by husband John.
She is a regular Clyde 1 listener and has often entered the contest, sponsored by Wholesale Domestic Bathrooms in Hillington, “playing along but never usually managing to get all 10 questions correct”.
Pamela added: “I’m going to decide what to do with the money once I’ve got over the shock of winning, but it will probably go towards a new kitchen.”
Clyde 1 Breakfast presenter George Bowie said: “Pamela was a great contestant and there was a really intense debate in the studio as to whether we should award nine or 10 correct answers.
“I felt she had 10 and was delighted to award her the £5000 – it must have been such a nervous wait! I hope she enjoys spending her £5000 once it sinks in.”
