
# Eight arrested in Vietnam over Essex lorry deaths

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:32:00+00:00**

Author: **Staff Reporter**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/05/news/eight-arrested-in-vietnam-over-essex-deaths-1756368/)

POLICE in Vietnam have arrested eight people in connection with the deaths of 39 migrants in a lorry container in Essex.
The bodies of 31 men and eight women were found in a container at an industrial park in Grays in the early hours of October 23.
Two men from Co Armagh and Co Down are facing manslaughter charges over the 39 deaths.
Police in Northern Ireland and Essex are also searching for two Co Armagh brothers in connection with the investigation.
Essex Police initially believed all the victims were Chinese. However, it is understood all 39 were from Vietnam and were travelling on fake Chinese passports.
A spokesman for police in Vietnam said most of the victims were from the neighbouring provinces of Nghe An and Ha Tinh, on the country's north central coast.
The provinces are known for their high levels of migration.
On Friday, police in Ha Tinh said they had arrested two people and summoned others for questioning on suspicion of involvement in trafficking.
A spokeswoman for the country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs called the deaths a "serious humanitarian tragedy".
On Saturday, a remembrance service for the victims was held at the Church of the Holy Name and Our Lady of the Sacred Heart in Bow, east London, which has a large Vietnamese congregation.
Reverend Simon Nguyen told the PA news agency that the church has assisted with the investigation into the tragedy.
Maurice 'Mo' Robinson (25), of Laurelvale, Co Armagh, has already appeared in court in England over the 39 deaths.
He is charged with 39 counts of manslaughter, conspiracy to traffic people, conspiracy to assist unlawful immigration and money laundering.
Essex Police have also started extradition proceedings to bring 22-year-old Eamonn Harrison, from Mayobridge in Co Down, to the UK.
Mr Harrison appeared in the High Court in Dublin on Friday. He is facing charges including 39 counts of manslaughter, along with human trafficking and immigration offences.
Detectives have also urged Ronan Hughes (40) and his brother Christopher (34) to hand themselves in.
The pair, from Co Armagh, are wanted on suspicion of manslaughter and human trafficking.
It is understood Ronan Hughes spoke to police shortly after the driver of the lorry, Mo Robinson, was arrested following the discovery of the bodies.
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
