
# Inflation has bottomed out, economists, BSP agree

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:11:34+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/06/inflation-has-bottomed-out-economists-bsp-agree/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
FOLLOWING the announcement that inflation has hit a 42-month low in October, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) and local and international economists agreed that the growth of consumer prices in the country is on its way to an uptrend in the coming months.
The Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) on Tuesday reported that inflation hit 0.8 percent in October—the lowest for the country since April 2016 when it hit 0.7 percent. This deceleration is a stark contrast to the 6.7-percent inflation in the same month last year and has put the average consumer price growth of the country at 2.6 percent in the first 10 months of the year.
The inflation slowdown—from 0.9 percent in the previous month—has been anticipated by the BSP, Governor Benjamin Diokno said in his inflation statement following PSA’s announcement.
“The latest inflation outturn is consistent with the BSP’s prevailing assessment that inflation has likely bottomed out in October and could start to pick up slightly in the remaining months of 2019 as base effects start to dissipate,” Diokno said.
Economists echoed this statement.
In separate announcements during the day, ING Bank Manila economist Nicholas Mapa, Security Bank economist Robert Dan Roces and JP Morgan economist Nur Raisah Rasid all said the same thing: inflation will start rising in the next couple of months.
“The October print likely marks the bottoming of the CPI trajectory; we expect underlying inflation to trend higher in the coming months, leaving headline CPI sitting comfortably within the BSP’s 2 to 4 percent target range through 2020,” the JP Morgan economist said.
“We expect inflation to have bottomed out in October and start to pick up this November on dissipating base effects and higher consumer spending for the holidays….  We see inflation normalizing next year and within the BSP’s target range of 2 percent to 4 percent,” Roces also said.
For his part, Mapa sees monthly inflation reverting to within the 2-percent to 4-percent target range even before the year ends. “With the base effects from the peak of 2018 fading quickly, we expect inflation to revert to target as early as December,” Mapa said.
Diokno said the BSP continues to expect average inflation to firmly settle within the target range of 2 percent to 4 percent for 2019 to 2021.
“Global crude oil prices have started to stabilize following the recent volatility caused by geopolitical tensions in the Middle East. Meanwhile, deepening trade tensions between China and the US along with other countries in the region have raised global economic uncertainty, which pose a downside risk to the inflation outlook,” Diokno said.
“The BSP will continue to keep  a close watch over latest economic developments here and abroad to ensure that the monetary-policy stance remains consistent with the  BSP’s price stability objective while being supportive of economic growth,” the governor added.
For this year, economists said the BSP will likely stay put and retain the monetary-policy rates for the remaining meetings, adopting a wait-and-see stance on the next steps, depending on price and growth developments.
Security Bank’s Roces, in particular, said a pause on monetary easing for the year is prudent.
“With just 75 basis points slashed from 2018’s 175-basis-point rate hike leaves the Central Bank ample policy leeway to manage any inflationary spikes in 2020, if at all,” Roces said.
For JP Morgan, meanwhile, the third-quarter gross domestic product (GDP) report to be released on Thursday remains key for its view for whether the BSP will ease the policy rate at the December 12 Monetary Board meeting.
“With inflation forecasted to remain within target even after base effects wash out, the BSP will continue to work to provide an environment conducive for economic growth for as long as the price objective is in hand.  ING forecasts inflation to settle at 3.1 percent in 2020, paving the way for the Central Bank to cut policy rates by another 50 basis points, with the first move expected in the first quarter of 2020,” Mapa, meanwhile, said.
The BSP is expected to have two more monetary-policy setting meetings before the year ends: one on November 14 and one on December 12.
Image Credits: Junpinzon | Dreamstime.com
