
# Drivers to get £200 fines if they even touch phones thanks to new traffic cameras

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:11:15+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, David Bentley, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/drivers-200-fines-even-touch-20786248)

Drivers who are caught touching their phones for even the briefest moments while driving will soon be convicted as new HD cameras are trialled.
An urgent review has been called by transport secretary Grant Shapps to tighten a loophole which allows motorists caught with their hands on their phones to avoid punishment.
At the moment police have to catch those behind the wheel calling, texting or engrossed in some other kind of 'interactive communication' to bring a successful charge, Birmingham Mail reported.
The issue was brought to light earlier this year when Ramsey Barreto successfully appealed a conviction he received for filming the scene of a crash while driving.
His lawyers argued UK laws only forbade driving while communicating on a phone, not simply holding a mobile.
The Department for Transport is working to close the loophole so anyone spotted texting, taking photos, browsing the internet, scrolling through a music playlist or doing anything else on their phone behind the wheel can be prosecuted.
 
It is expected the proposals will be in place by 2020.
When they are in force, offenders will receive six points and a fine of up to £200.
Last month RAC research found that 35 per cent of drivers under the age of 25 – and 17 per cent of drivers overall – admitted taking their eyes off the road to check texts, email or social media. 
The action follows a recent report by the Commons' Transport Select Committee which urged the Government to introduce tougher restrictions on using a mobile phone while driving.
The committee also recommended that ministers should consider a ban on hands-free use, but the DfT announced there are no plans to introduce such a measure.
In 2018, there were 683 casualties on Britain's roads - including 29 deaths and 118 serious injuries - in crashes where a driver using a mobile was a contributory factor.
Since March 2017, motorists caught using a hand-held phone have faced incurring six points on their licence and a £200 fine - up from the previous penalty of three points and £100.
"This review will look to tighten up the existing law to bring it into the 21st century, preventing reckless driving and reduce accidents on our roads," Mr Shapps said.
Labour MP Lilian Greenwood, who chairs the committee, described the announcement as "great news" but warned that "the risk from hands-free devices is just as real".
She said: "While we're pleased that ministers will prioritise work on hand-held mobiles, this issue still needs to be addressed."
Ahead of the law change Highways England will trialing roadside cameras which automatically take pictures of drivers using their phones.
The high-definition cameras would be fixed to overhead gantries and take crystal-clear photos of drivers through their windscreens.
The images would be sent to police and notices of intended prosecution posted to the vehicle’s owner in the same way as speeding penalties.
