
# Surface Duo and Neo might get “control logic” and gesture support

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Raka**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/surface-duo-and-neo-might-get-control-logic-and-gesture-support/)

Microsoft has announced its first foldable dual-screen device, or should I say devices, at the Surface event. Microsoft’s Surface Neo and Duo are going to be launched next year and these new products are expected to be a little bit different from what we’ve seen at the Surface Event. In other words, Microsoft’s Surface Duo and Neo are expected to be better than what it is today.
Adding support for “Control logic” and gesture could be in Microsoft’s To-Do list to improve its upcoming dual-screen foldable device. In a new patent, which was published by USPTO, Microsoft shed some light on how the company is planning to improve the user experience of the foldable devices.
Titled ‘DEVICE HAVING A SCREEN REGION ON A HINGE COUPLED BETWEEN OTHER SCREEN REGIONS,’ the patent mainly talks about two solutions — “Control logic,” and gesture support.
The purpose of the Control logic is simple and interesting. According to the patent, it can be used to render the correct information on one or multiple regions of the screen. Other important functions include determining the state of the hinge and as well as the volume controls, controlling the movement of UI elements, helping users with controlling multiple processes, and last but not least, detecting a gesture and direct it to a specific region of the screen.
“In accordance with this example, the control logic may determine an interface element (e.g., a virtual bookmark) to be displayed on the third screen region. In another example, the control logic may determine a notification to be displayed on the third screen region,” the patent reads.
via Windowslatest
