
# The 17th of October and the acid defiance of the political class

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:57:00+00:00**

Author: **Ziad El-Sayegh**

Original: [An-Nahar](https://en.annahar.com/article/1063308-the-17th-of-october-and-the-acid-defiance-of-the-political-class)

It's been 21 days since the Lebanese have gone to streets and squares, angered by corruption and plagued by their many economic, social and sovereign hardships. Their echoing hopes of pulling their beloved Lebanon out of the teeth of lions that claim supreme power to “grind” people’s dreams seem to only get louder.As Mahatma Gandhi once said: “You can chain me, you can torture me, you can even destroy this body, but you will never imprison my mind,” and it seems that the Lebanese people have actualized this famous saying through their determination and their liberated thinking. They haven't gotten tired and will not, no matter how much the enraged lions bet on aberrations and instabilities relying on the instruments of power in their possession. At this point, the struggle of the will is the essence of this stage.    Since day 1 of the protests, several facts that the masters of the Machiavellian Mercantile system made sure to burry have resurfaced, and henceforth the masters have been trying to confirm that these facts are dead, suggesting that by attempting to resuscitate them, the Lebanese are digging their own graves. They threatened of a collapse resulting from the vacuum less than 48 hours after the popular movement ignited. They boasted and contended stubbornly four days after the movement was consecrated a steady uprising. And they started counter-attack machines projecting ugly images that don't resemble the civilization of the cradle of the Alphabet. However, many facts worth mentioning were confirmed by the free Lebanese people:1- The deadly politicization of religious identitiesChristians and Muslims came together to refuse to be controlled by a political class that is concealed under the umbrella of sectarianism to defend their positions and privileges. This politicization of religious identities is a sin, and the religious plurality of citizenship that incubates pluralism proved to be the pinnacle of advancement, that’s why it's being reconsidered by Western secular states.2- The banality of the rule by the strongStrong rule depends on wisdom and justice. However, building contradictory alliances, and trivializing popular representation by the accumulation of deputies ministers, or the accumulation of supplies and quantities for purposes not related to the concerns of the people and the interests of sovereign national security is flabby and ambiguous and shows that the illusion of the rule by the strong is extremely banal.3- The “plot” or “conspiracy” lie told by kleptocrats In spite of all the moralities produced so far by the revolutionary street, moralities that transcend the damn political sectarianism, and in spite of the banality of the rule by the strong, the accusations of plots or conspiracies persist, while in reality, the movement is a crackdown on a lousy state characterized by poor and bad governance. However, these accusations have failed to stick, Lebanon is only a country of “deals” and “self-interest arrangements” in the minds of those who remain informally in power.4- The dynamism of the academic sectorUniversities didn't hesitate to join people in the streets, and they were not alone. All sectors showed outstanding dynamism. This time, however, the movement of universities necessitates the readoption of a scientific, national and deontological approach to have a firm grip on the leadership of the dynamics of the revolution with phased and systematic goals. Good concepts are a cornerstone of success and so are good public policies.The Lebanese people have highly costly days before them: a liberalization revolution and a refusal to sink in the tragedy of the commons that is forced upon them, and they're realistic enough to know the obligations of the marathon journey they have embarked on, and no matter what the ruling class takes from them, it can’t take away their great will power. Still, the entrenched political class is refusing to give an inch and it will oppress them tooth and nail, either by violence or by repression.To attain ultimate goals, enforcing anti-corruption and accountability mechanisms without restoring sovereignty is pointless. It's no secret that the ruling leadership is giving wrong and misleading directions and information. And, when the Lebanese people have exhausted all possibilities, they should remember this: they haven’t. Related Articles Lebanon's complex web of corruption and its legality  World Bank sounds alarm about Lebanon amid protests, crisis  Lebanon struggles to reopen roads as sit-ins continue

        Show Comments
      
