
# The Real Cost of Diversifying College Rosters

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:40:11+00:00**

Author: **Bill Pennington**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/07/sports/college-sports-diversity-amherst.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

AMHERST, Mass. — Kaetu Wleh, who emigrated from Liberia to Boston with his mother as a newborn, never had a favorite sport growing up. But six years ago, as a middle school student, he took a chance on an after-school program called SquashBusters, which is financed by donations and provides students from challenged communities with academic tutoring and expert coaching in squash.
“I joined because the squash goggles looked cool,” Wleh said.
At roughly the same time, in western Massachusetts, the leadership at Amherst College vowed to find more athletes of color to diversify predominantly white team rosters.
That led Amherst squash coach, Peter Robson, to a junior tournament in Boston a few years later. That’s where he spotted and immediately recruited Wleh, who is black and whose daily routine by then included five to eight hours of training and studying at the SquashBusters facility.
Wleh, who said he had an unweighted high school grade-point average of 3.76 and a score of 1380 on the SAT, is now a freshman at Amherst and an African-American in what for decades in the United States had been a lily-white sport.
“I hit the jackpot,” said Wleh, who will receive need-based grants from Amherst totaling about $63,000 this academic year. “I was found. Most kids playing a sport in my situation are left behind.”
Wleh is indeed an anomaly, and not one restricted to squash. The prevailing model for almost all youth sports in America radically skews college athletic opportunities toward high-income families. The cost to play youth sports nationwide has ballooned exponentially because of club dues, specialized tutoring and travel tournament fees that can total as much as $3,000 to $20,000 annually per child. That shuts out tens of millions of young American athletes from low- and middle-class households who cannot afford travel sports and consequently have almost no chance of being seen by a college coach.
A result is that college rosters are exceedingly white, especially when the major-college revenue sports like football and basketball are excluded. According to the N.C.A.A.’s most recent survey, published last year, nearly 70 percent of its athletes competing outside football and basketball were white. Twenty-three percent were athletes of color, defined as African-American, multiracial, Asian-American, Native American and what the N.C.A.A. characterized as Hispanic/Latino.
The disparity was even starker at small colleges, many of which, like Amherst, play in the 442-member N.C.A.A. Division III, the largest grouping of college teams. Almost 80 percent of Division III athletes were white when football and basketball rosters were excluded. The percentage of black athletes in that cohort was 6.2, and the percentage of Hispanic/Latino athletes 6.1.
For the last decade, Amherst has been lauded for its campuswide diversity with a current student body that is 45 percent students of color, 43 percent non-Hispanic white and 9 percent international students. But roughly three years ago, when the demographics of its athletic teams did not match the makeup of the overall student population (just 23 percent of players on the college’s rosters were athletes of color), Amherst faced a moment of reckoning.
Biddy Martin, the college president, wrote online messages to the Amherst community announcing that the institution would embark on a mission to prove that its sports rosters could be reshaped to include underrepresented ethnic and socioeconomic groups.
Amherst coaches, with a slightly augmented recruiting budget, have since looked beyond the most popular, suburban-based youth sports tournaments and frequently taken the less-traveled path to far-flung locales, small urban gyms and foreign countries. They have beat the bushes with blind calls, targeted distinct youth clubs from mixed neighborhoods and expanded an existing program that flies prospective minority applicants to the Amherst campus to substantially include recruited athletes.
“In terms of resources, we’re talking thousands of dollars, or tens of thousands of dollars, but we’re not talking millions of dollars,” Martin said of the initiative.
She added: “What matters more than money to travel is the effort, the awareness and the commitment to diversity.”
This year, Amherst’s most recent sports recruiting class was 32 percent athletes of color, and an additional 4 percent of recruits were international students. White athletes made up 58 percent of the recruited class. In 2002, just 11 percent of Amherst athletic recruits were students of color.
Athletes at Amherst say the college is transforming the culture of sports there.
“My first year at Amherst there were only 12 female black athletes on campus and a lot of them were quitting,” said Sloan Askins, who is African-American and a senior on the women’s soccer team. “Since then, those numbers are always increasing year after year. You feel change. There are only three black girls on my team right now, but it doesn’t feel like we’re scarce.”
Amherst is not the only college or university in the nation aggressively diversifying its athletic rosters — hundreds have done so. But coaches at other small colleges suggested in off-the-record conversations that diversity recruiting is demonstrably easier for Amherst because of its deep financial resources, including an endowment of $2.4 billion. About 55 percent of its students receive need-based scholarships and the average aid package is nearly $56,000. It is also true that a 2017 study by The New York Times highlighted that 21 percent of the students at Amherst, which has an intimidating 11 percent acceptance rate, came from households whose annual income ranks in the top 1 percent nationwide.
But since Amherst is a small liberal arts college that does not award athletic scholarships and is free from the pressures of big-time football and basketball, it is well positioned to make the case that sustained, aggressive, tactical recruiting — along with some extra dollars in the recruiting budget — could substantially alter the look of college teams.
Moreover, the college’s officials, and prominent members of the youth sports community, insist the Amherst initiative can be, and should be, replicated elsewhere around the country.
“What Amherst is doing is not so unique that it can’t be replicated,” said Ray Selvadurai, the director of coaching for the Manhattan Soccer Club, which represents about 1,500 boys and girls from age 5 to 23. “If university presidents put their support behind it, it will happen for sure.”
Justin Serpone, the Amherst men’s soccer coach, agreed.
“The most important step is having the college’s leadership tell its coaches point blank that being diverse is an overwhelming priority,” Serpone said. “And that is something that can be done anywhere.”
Now in his 13th year at Amherst, Serpone, whose team is roughly half athletes of color and currently the top-ranked Division III team in the nation, has become renowned in the youth soccer community for his commitment to finding players from varied backgrounds.
At a massive college sports recruiting tournament in Maryland on Memorial Day weekend this year, Serpone stood atop a grandstand so he could survey seven fields packed with teenage players eager to catch his eye.
Typical of the existing socioeconomic model in American youth sports, Serpone looked down upon a sea of white faces. But the coach nonetheless spent the weekend searching for someone who stood out.
“You have to turn over every stone to uncover players in places where other people are not looking,” Serpone said. “There are thousands of kids on nobody’s radar who are good enough to play college soccer. But they’re not going to come find you.”
As an example, Serpone attended the earliest game one day at the Maryland tournament between western Long Island teams who were in the lowest tier of the team power rankings for the event — a designation that turned away other coaches. Serpone went to the game because he knew the teams were among the few at the tournament who represented neighborhoods of mixed ethnicities and backgrounds, including families that had yet to send a child to college.
Standing on the sideline, Serpone, who was raised north of Boston by a single mother with a disability, watched two, tall black players dominate the game.
“It took about two minutes of my time to see those kids,” he said as he wrote the players’ jersey numbers in a notebook.
Serpone left after about 15 minutes because he had nearly a dozen other games to see before sundown, but he had the contact information for each player’s coach.
“It might not be easy, but I’ll track those two kids down,” Serpone said. “They may not have the grades or they may not want to play in college, but I’m going to find out. Still, it illustrates the central point — if diversity matters to you, you’ll find kids and take a chance.”
The players, still in high school, are now in Serpone’s recruiting database, which includes athletes from all 50 states and several countries. He has scouted youth soccer games while on a family vacation in Prague and in the middle of a trip to California for a friend’s wedding.
Four months after the Memorial Day recruiting event, Serpone welcomed six first-year players to his team’s opening practices on the Amherst campus.
All were nonwhite.
Like Serpone, the coaches for each of Amherst’s 27 varsity sports have employed a variety of tactics and strategies to attract more athletes of color as well as recruits from varying socioeconomic backgrounds. At an annual diversity weekend each fall, the college will pay the airfare and expenses to visit the campus for more than 100 prospective students who have applied to be a part of the program. Nearly 15 percent of the students flown in will be athletes who have been identified by Amherst coaches, and in many cases those athletes eventually choose to matriculate.
The weekend is a part of Amherst’s ambition to break away from an old recruiting model that had the coaches chiefly scouting for players in New England.
Sue Everden, the women’s volleyball coach, said in the last few years she had instead made trips to Detroit, Chicago, Houston, Miami and Atlanta, often avoiding big tournaments so that she could attend small venues where she not only found good players with good grades, she developed an extensive network of distant club coaches. Many of those coaches had never heard of Amherst. Now they are encouraging some of their best players to contact Everden.
As Amherst has become more adept at attracting athletes of color, making those athletes feel comfortable and part of the community on Amherst’s pastoral, 1,000-acre campus continues to pose a separate challenge.
“Being the only black person not only on the field but in your sport’s entire league can be incredibly isolating,” said Isabella Edo, a junior from Massachusetts on the women’s lacrosse and field hockey teams whose father immigrated from Nigeria when he was 18. “You instantly realize the implications.”
Edo has been a leader in a campus organization created several years ago with the help of the athletic department called the Council of Amherst College Student-Athletes of Color. At weekly meetings, the council hosts outside speakers or fosters conversations on topics related to race and athletics — at Amherst or elsewhere.
There have been, however, racist incidents when Amherst played against what are typically less diverse teams, including an opposing player using the N-word in a men’s soccer game two years ago.
“We know that other teams view us differently,” said Kofi Hope-Gund, a black Amherst goalkeeper from Manhattan who was on the field during the game. “It’s important that we not let that define us. We do want to be known as unique and diverse.”
In his 12 full seasons at Amherst, Serpone has analyzed the minutes played by each player and determined that athletes of color have been on the field for 42 percent of all Amherst games but have received 62 percent of all yellow cards and 90 percent of all red cards issued.
“It’s not a small sample size for us: We’re talking 250 yellow cards,” Serpone said. “What I’m not saying is referees are racist. But I think there’s an implicit bias because we don’t look like the other teams.
“So, yes, we rightly celebrate our diversity, but there’s also things that come along that aren’t as positive.”
And where do Amherst officials think their athletic diversity effort will be in, say, 10 years? Will the roster makeup of their athletic teams be as varied as the overall student body?
“My hope is success begets success,” said Matthew L. McGann, the dean of admissions and financial aid. “And you can see this happening on some of our teams that have been the earliest adopters in this effort. A team that is already diverse and has done the inclusion work appeals to more students who are looking for that kind of experience.”
In the last week of August, minutes before the first Amherst men’s soccer team’s practice of a new season, Serpone stood on a bluff overlooking multiple fields as his six new recruits made their opening forays to integrate with the team’s returning players.
There was laughter and reassuring chatter. A sociable camaraderie was plainly developing.
“I’m all in on the importance of diversifying our rosters,” said Serpone, whose 2015 team won the Division III national championship. “But it’s also just more fun when you have an environment where guys are learning about new cultures from their teammates or understanding the backgrounds of people who were raised differently than you.”
Serpone chuckled.
“When I started at Amherst, I would have club coaches call me and say, ‘Hey, Justin, I’ve got a kid who would be a great fit for Amherst,’” Serpone said. “And I’d say to myself: ‘I don’t want a great fit. I want someone who makes us different.’
“Because that’s how everybody gets better.”

        Continue reading the main story
      
