
# Man charged over death of schoolboy, 11, whose body was found in house

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:04:00+00:00**

Author: **David Raleigh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/man-charged-over-death-schoolboy-20837075)

A young man has been charged over the death of an 11-year-old boy found lifeless in a house.
Brooklyn Colbert was discovered with multiple injuries.
A man in his late 20s was charged tonight and will appear in court on Friday.
Police in Limerick, Ireland, said that, "for operational reasons", they weren't releasing details of how Brooklyn died.
Speaking earlier on Thursday, Fr Donal McNamara of St Munchin’s Parish, said the whole of Limerick was praying for the boy’s parents and extended family.
"He was an only child and it must be shattering for his family. The sadness is palpable around the north side of Limerick city, and all over really," Fr McNamara said.
"Everybody is so hurt and so upset over the whole thing. It’s horrendous, an awful tragedy. My thoughts and prayers are with the young lad’s family.
"The people of the north side are so loving and welcoming and they are all so hurt over this. I’m thinking of the boy and his family and I’m praying with them in spirit."
A private wake took place at the boy’s family home Thursday night.
His funeral mass takes place 11am, Friday, at St Saviour’s Church, Glentworth Street, Limerick, with burial afterwards in the nearby Mount St Oliver Cemetery.
Forensic officers have carried out an examination of the property.
Chelsea Smyth, who lives close to the scene, said: "I know the families (involved) and it’s hurtful to hear of the loss."
