
# Pete Wicks shares very cosy snap with Chloe Sims as fans beg them to get together

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:35:37+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/pete-wicks-shares-very-cosy-20799186)

TOWIE fans are desperate for Pete Wicks and Chloe Sims to get together, and his latest post has only added fuel to the fire.
On Saturday he took to Instagram to wish Chloe a happy 36h birthday with a very cosy looking picture of the two of them.
In the photo they sit on a rock at the seaside, with Pete planting a kiss on his pretty pal's head as she leaned in close with her hand on his knee.
Pete told her that he'd be "lost without her" in the caption, which also included a red love heart emoji.
He wrote: "Happy birthday @chloe_simsstarship - the only person I know who gets younger as they get older! I’d be lost without you."
The picture sent his followers wild, with many begging them to get together.
One commented: "Just get together already! Sometimes the best love story starts as best friends."
"Why are you guys not together already?" another posted.
A third said: "Can’t you just get together? You both love each other!!!!!! One day maybe?"
Another agreed: "About time you two become a couple ain't it... I love you two together. You're perfect together."
A fifth wrote: "When are you two gonna get together... we can all see the chemistry between you both?!"
But Pete recently claimed he'd never date Chloe because he'd be worried about hurting her.
Chatting to The Sun Online, Pete said: "Me and Chloe have been mates for so long it's one of those things, I would never want to hurt or ruin our friendship."
