
# Primark to open 19 new stores in UK and other parts of Europe

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:31:35+00:00**

Author: **James Andrews, Jamie Hawkins**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/primark-open-19-new-stores-3502199)

Budget fashion retailer Primark has revealed the 19 locations it will open new stores.
The hugely popular company opened 14 brand new stores in the past year, including the world's largest in Birmingham, and the success of these has continued.
Associated British Food has now announced plans to open 19 branches across Europe, including the UK, The Mirror reports.
Chief executive George Weston said: "In the next financial year, we are planning to add a net 1 million sq ft of additional selling space."
He added: "We expect to open 19 new stores together with a number of relocations and extensions."
Primark also celebrated its 50th anniversary, as well as its 20 millionth social media follower as customers flocked to stores around the world. Sales were up 4.2 per cent, while operating profit rose eight per cent.
"Primark marked its 50th anniversary by delivering an 8% increase in profit. 14 new stores were added across the UK and continental Europe in the year, including our largest ever store, in Birmingham," Weston said.
Despite troubles on the high street, Primark saw sales growth in the UK of 2.5 per cent - with new offerings and plans helping out.
"We have been encouraged by our customers' reaction to our new store in Birmingham High Street which showcases our new food and beverage and beauty services in addition to our full product range," Weston said.
And this success means more new stores in the next year - on top of the 14 opened in the last one.
This is where the new stores are coming:

        New UK stores
      

        Relocated UK stores
      

        New European stores
      
