
# Spain Heads To Political Blockade After Second General Election

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ana Garcia Valdivia**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/anagarciavaldivia/2019/11/06/spain-heads-to-political-blockade-after-second-general-election/)

Spain is about to hold the second general election this year and the fourth in four years and yet, political blockade seems the most likely scenario after the ballot. On November 4, the main candidates showed the continuing deadlock of Spanish politics in the electoral debate on national public television (RTVE).
The socialist acting prime minister Pedro Sánchez has distanced from the anti-austerity party Unidas Podemos and moderated his speech seeking the center vote. Podemos’ leader Pablo Iglesias reproached Sanchez for approaching the right-wing, altough insisted on the need for a "progressive left-wing coalition.”
On the right-wing, the chief of the conservative Popular Party (PP) Pablo Casado won the battle to the head of Ciudadanos Albert Rivera to lead the right bloc. Ciudadanos has been in free fall since April elections and could lose two-thirds of its seats in Congress according to polls.
It was the first big debate for Santiago Abascal, the leader of the far-right party Vox, who made a drastic anti-immigration discourse mixed with an ultra-nationalist speech against the the Spanish autonomies.
Given the current panorama of political fragmentation, no party can reach an absolute majority, but the formation of Spain's first coalition government seems difficult to come by.
The major difference from the previous election is that, while the right-wing parties are still willing to reach an agreement, the left bloc has become blurred as Sánchez keeps ruling out a coalition government with Podemos.
The socialist leader won the April elections but failed to form government due to the lack of agreement with the anti-austerity party.

        Left-wing more fragmented than in April
      
PSOE and Podemos have gone from being potential allies to having two increasingly distant visions. Sánchez insists that the priority must be breaking the political blockade and for that he calls the other forces for external support.
“If after November 10 (election day) the Congress does not agree on a government, you have to respect the most voted list,” Sánchez claimed in the debate. "Spain has not a presidential but a parliamentary system," Iglesias reproached him.
“If there are no absolute majorities, either the left bloc or the right bloc will govern. Mr. Sanchez must clarify if he prefers Mr. Casado or us,” Iglesias added.
Despite not taking part in the TV debate, there is another character to consider in this polls. The co-founder of Podemos Iñigo Errejón, who left the party after disagreements with Iglesias, is running for election under his own brand Más País (More Country).
Errejón aims to grasp the vote of the "disillusioned" left-wing voters after PSOE and Podemos’ failure to negotiate. According to Errejón, the new force will facilitate the formation of a progressive government. However, Más País risks to increase the bloc's fragmentation and could end up benefiting the right.

        Strengthening of right-wing bloc at expense of Ciudadanos
      
Despite Popular Party’s worst results in April, the Spanish conservatives have not stopped rising in the polls after the failed investiture. Casado, who represents the hard wing of the PP has moderated his speech and is now profiting from the sinking of Ciudadanos.
Rivera’s party has been moving from liberal to nationalist-conservative positions. In the last elections, Ciudadanos left the center space aiming to become the leader of the right-wing opposition and refused to negotiate with Sánchez.
Now Rivera has announced he is lifting the veto to the socialist leader and promised to “unblock the country from the opposition” if he does not win. But these continued shifts have drowned the party into an internal and external crisis of which Vox, PP and PSOE are taking advantage.
On the contrary, Vox is likely to gain more power after November 10 ballot. Some polls estimate that the far-right party could double its current seats and become the third political force in Congress.
During the debate Vox's leader related migration to crime and women’s rape. “How much does universal health care for migrants cost to the State?” asked Abascal, who wants to ban separatist parties and eliminate the Spanish autonomies.

        Catalonia in center stage
      
Catalan crisis has deteriorated since Spain’s Supreme Court ruled long prison sentences for Catalan Separatist leaders over the illegal independence referendum, triggering massive protests and riots in the streets.
The right-wing has defended the intervention of the central government by applying article 155 of the Constitution –which allows the Executive to suspend Catalonia’s autonomy and take control of Catalan institutions.
Casado and Rivera accused Sánchez of seeking support from pro-independence parties, which they refer to as "anti-constitutionalists".
But his time Sánchez showed a heavy-handed approach with separatists and promised to introduce a crime against illegal referendums in the Penal Code (which his own party removed a few years ago) and to modify the law regulating the Catalan public television (TV3) to fight against “sectarianism”.
A very tense moment of the debate came when Casado asked Sánchez if he considered Catalonia to be a nation and the socialist leader refused to answer despite having said so in previous interviews. Then, both Casado and Sánchez accused each other’s parties of being the ones giving more prerogatives to Catalonia in the past.
Iglesias called for dialogue and accused Sánchez to copy the speech to the right instead of seeking reconciliation with Catalonia.
The two leaders are getting further and further apart. Sánchez does not consider a different option from governing on its own while Podemos's leader is still hopeful of a rapprochement after November 10.
