
# The Strange Connection Among Houdini, Halloween, And Women’s Liberation

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Melanie Fine**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/melaniefine/2019/10/31/the-strange-connection-among-houdini-halloween-and-womens-liberation/)

It was an unusually cold night — for Hollywood that is —Halloween night 1936, on the roof of the Knickerbocker Hotel where the elite of the prestidigitation world, spiritualists, and hundreds of their followers assembled.On a table before them was “a pistol, loaded with blank cartridges; a tambourine; a locked pair of handcuffs...; a slate; a bit of chalk; a large bell; and a trumpet.”
The onlookers and a handful of honored participants, most notably Bess Houdini, the widow of the late magician Harry Houdini, had gathered to participate in a seance in honor of the ten-year anniversary of Houdini’s death.
Halloween traces its roots to a 2000-year-old Celtic festival that marked not only the separation between harvest and the dark days of winter but a liminal time when the veil between this and the spirit world was lifted.  
If Houdini’s spirit was going to return to the world of the living, Halloween seemed like the perfect time. The fact that Houdini had died on Halloween sealed the date. 
Over the past ten years, his widow Bess would diligently light a candle in front of his picture, hoping for his spirit to appear.  The Hollywood spectacle that cold October evening was far less personal than Bess would have liked.  
Communicating with the dead had become an obsession with Harry Houdini, ever since the death of his beloved mother.  His obsession became all-consuming, as did his disappointment and outrage as he witnessed medium after medium besting each other with ever more elaborate parlor tricks and “flimflammery,” as he called it, to take advantage of unsuspecting followers.  
Houdini channeled his indignation into shows, articles and books exposing the spiritualists’ deceptions, though he still wanted to believe that the veil between this world and the next was thin and permeable.  
So certain he was of the possibility, he shared with Bess a secret code with which she could verify his identity and when he returned.
Needless to say, their secret code remained a secret that Halloween night. Unable to summon Houdini’s spirit, Bess remarked to the crowd, “Ten years is long enough to wait for any man.”  
It would be the last seance she would ever attend.

        Spiritualism in America
      
Houdini was far from the only one who believed there were spirits among us.  In19th and early 20th century America, Spiritualism, the belief and ability to communicate with the dead, had risen to a fever pitch of religious intensity.  
After two sisters reported hearing spirit rappings in their Hydesville, New York home in 1848, it seemed as if everyone was trying to either communicate with Spirit or be the medium through which that communication took place.    Even when the sisters later admitted to making the whole thing up, it was far too late to put the genie back in the bottle — or the dead back in their final resting place.  
After all, the rate at which scientists were discovering strange and mysterious new phenomena that materialized things out of thin air, such as the telegraph, electromagnetic induction, and radioactivity, that it was surely just a matter of time that science broke the barrier between this world and the next.  
And, families devastated by loss in recent wars were especially susceptible.

        A Religion of Women
      
What set spiritualism apart from other religions was that it was ushered forward primarily by women, offering an unusual professional entry point into a Victorian society whose education, government and public forums were for men only.  Women did not vote, did not speak publicly, did not leave the house without a man at her side, and most definitely, had neither religious nor educational pathways to become leaders of more established religions.  
Rather, Victorian women were valued for their delicate dispositions, “intuition and nervousness” — the weaker and more infirmed the better —  precisely the traits that, according to Laurence Moore were believed to make them ideal hosts to the spirit world.  
Frail women who never thought to challenge their station, found themselves drawing crowds of followers, speaking on stages, traveling across the country and receiving remuneration.  And to many it became intoxicating.
Spiritualism became a one-way ticket out of a stifling Victorian existence that enabled its bearers to travel freely, speak for themselves, and even take lovers.
Some of these women had the ears of the greatest men of their time, from Cornelius Vanderbilt to President Abraham Lincoln.
First lady Mary Todd Lincoln on more than one occasion invited spiritualists to conduct seances at the White House, some of which were attended by President Lincoln himself.  One such spiritualist Cora Maynard claimed to have influenced the writing of the Emancipation Proclamation.  
Spiritualist conventions took pace regionally, and it was at such gatherings often under the guise of spirit that abolitionism was heralded and the seeds of women’s suffrage were planted.

        Harry Houdini, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and Margery Crandon
      
Sherlock Holmes author Sir Arthur Conan Doyle became an unabashed advocate of spiritualism after the loss of his son Kingsley in the first world war.  The erudite Conan Doyle and self-made strong man Houdini formed an unlikely friendship over spiritualism, bonds which spiritualism would soon test.
In 1922 Scientific American magazine announced a $2500 prize to the first person who could produce physical evidence of a psychic encounter, lending spiritualism the authority and dignity of scientific pursuit.  Harry Houdini served as a member of the committee among prominent scientists and psychic researchers. The most compelling contender for the prize was Margery Crandon, a Boston spiritualist whom Sir Conan Doyle and many others were convinced was the real thing.
Unlike other mediums, Margery Crandon was a socialite married to a prominent Boston surgeon.  She needed neither fame, riches nor parlor tricks — or so it seemed. Rather, her followers were convinced that it must have been the spirit world that singled her out to be its conduit.  
Margery, like other formidable spiritualists of the time, was able to produce physical evidence of psychic phenomena in the form of ectoplasm, “an often glutinous substance that emerged from various parts of the medium’s body. At times, these globulous, wandering projections were purported to tip tables. Serpentine ropes of the stuff would emerge from the medium’s ear to rest in fat coils on her shoulder and embryonic limbs and heads would drop like otherworldly stillbirths from the medium’s genitals.” 
In her book Spook, author Mary Roach writes about combing through samples of ectoplasm housed at Cambridge University. The university’s library boasts among its holdings a Gutenberg bible, Newton’s own annotated Principia Mathematica, Darwin’s notes on evolution, and yes, a jar of ectoplasm. 
Perhaps even more impressive, Margery was said to summon forth a spirit third hand out of her nether regions, though in later years the hand was revealed to be made from animal liver, which explained its lifeless appearance.  
The prestigious scientific committee tested Margery in seances anywhere from 20 to 80 times depending on whom you ask. 
Houdini himself came up with the most challenging test — he commissioned the building of a box for Margery to sit in during the seance, leaving only her head and arms exposed.  When he discovered at the end of one seance that one of the box’s panels was open, he outfitted the box with padlocks. Though Houdini’s credentials as a scientist and psychic investigator were questionable, his ability to make — and escape from— boxes and padlocks was the stuff of legend.
The literal and figurative symbolism of putting a woman in a box is not lost here. But it was too late anyway.  Spiritualism catalyzed women’s liberation, and even though the Scientific American committee never awarded its prize, women were no longer willing to be “put back into a box.” 
And, despite Houdini’s best efforts, Margery continued to draw a large following until her early death at the age of 53 in 1941.  
Over the subsequent years, most spiritualists were either debunked or the public simply lost interest. While there’s no direct evidence that the spiritualism movement led to women’s liberation, one thing we know for sure.  Whenever women get a taste of equality, whether it be voter rights, college and career choice, equal pay and the right to make decisions over their own bodies, they never turn back.  
