
# JUI-F summons resignations of NA members

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:30:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/517187-JUI-F-summons-resignations-of-NA-members)

ISLAMABAD (Dunya News) – JUI-F has asked its members to submit resignations from National Assembly to the leadership.
As per details, JUI-F leadership has decided to take resignations from its 15 members of National Assembly so that these resignations can be used at proper time.
Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) chief Fazlur Rehman on Monday has called ‘All Parties Conference (APC)’ at his residence in Islamabad for planning a joint course of action for the Azadi marchers to proceed for increasing pressure on the government. All opposition parties have been invited to attend the APC.
Addressing the gathering of Azadi March last night, JUI-F chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman said they (government) have to give right of vote to this nation. He said today only one city is locked and in future entire country can be locked.
"They are asking us to go and file complaints with the election commission," he said. "Election Commission is even more helpless than us," he added.He said that if the election commission was not so helpless, such a large crowd wouldn t have assembled in Islamabad.
"We have decided not to go to any court or election commission," he said. "Only a parliamentary committee will decide about rigging."
Fazl said that a case of the PTI s foreign funding was being heard by the Election Commission since the past five years but no verdict had been given on it. "If it couldn t decide about the foreign funding case then what decision can the ECP give on other matters," he wondered.
 
