
# Before impeachment, voters need to know what Ukraine did to Trump in 2016 and whether Joe Biden was corrupt

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:13:34+00:00**

Author: **Eddie Scarry**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/before-impeachment-voters-need-to-know-what-ukraine-did-to-trump-in-2016-and-whether-joe-biden-was-corrupt)

The national media take it for granted that anyone reading and watching their coverage of the ridiculous impeachment push will want to know nothing more than what they’re told.
It’s “quid pro quo!" It’s “abuse of power!" It’s “extortion!" It’s “bribery!”
But there are questions about why Democrats are so eager to impeach President Trump over a phone call with the leader of Ukraine. There are a lot of questions.
Voters are often too busy living their lives outside of politics to grasp the details of everything going on in Washington, but they’re not dumb.
Case in point: On Wednesday morning, CNN hosted a panel of six Pennsylvania women. One, a Trump supporter, was asked if there was anything Trump “could do or that could happen” that would make her decide against voting for the president in 2020.
“No,” she said. Host Alisyn Camerota replied with the over-the-top scenario that liberals can’t seem to let go. “If he shot someone on Fifth Avenue, would you vote for him?”
Another woman chimed in, “We’d have to know why he shot him.”
“Yeah, why did he shoot him?” said the first woman.
The reaction was predictable. But isn’t that an important question, given such an absurd set-up?
That’s what the impeachment effort is, by the way — an absurd set-up. A career government employee gossiped with a bunch of people who were on the call, then complained anonymously that Trump may have "abused his power" by asking a foreign leader perfectly legitimate questions. That got us to where we are now.
Here are the undisputed facts: Congress allocated millions of dollars in military aid for Ukraine, which the White House held up until Trump could have a phone call in July with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. During that call, Trump said he wanted Zelensky to look into possible Ukrainian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and into whether Joe Biden, as vice president, did anything corrupt while his son Hunter was sitting on the board of a sketchy Ukrainian gas company and making over half a million dollars per year, despite having no experience in the energy field.
Also undisputed are the facts that Ukraine did receive the aid it was granted by Congress, and there is so far no indication that Trump received anything in exchange for it.
Democrats and liberals in the media are calling this a quid pro quo, while providing no context. But any reasonable voter would want to know two things: Why does Trump think Ukraine had something to do with 2016, and is there anything to his suspicions about Biden?
If we’re going to impeach a president based solely on a phone call with the president of Ukraine, those are questions to which voters deserve answers.
They’ve probably heard almost nothing about it, though. Because so far, the media have shown no interest in the story behind this call.
Ukraine did interfere in the 2016 election, and for the purpose of hurting Trump’s campaign. That’s why U.S. Special Envoy to Ukraine Kurt Volker, in his summarized congressional testimony released Tuesday, recalled Trump saying of Ukraine, “They tried to take me down.”
Why, yes they did, and that’s a story that makes the phone call so much clearer.
As for the Bidens and whether there was anything corrupt, we don’t know for sure. But it doesn’t look good. And that’s a question that will hang over this impeachment.
