
# Shay Mitchell Shares Her Baby’s Unique Name Along With First Official Photo

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Yimin Huang**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407250/Shay-Mitchell-Shares-Her-Baby-s-Unique-Name-Along-With-First-Official-Photo/)

Canadian actress Shay Mitchell has chosen a truly one-of-a-kind name for her baby daughter, based on her love for traveling. In her sweet social media post, she has revealed the name to be Atlas Noa, attached with a long note showing her love for the baby. She stated in her post that she did not know she had the capability of “loving anything like this” until her daughter was born. She described it as a feeling as though the “chemical makeup” in her “body and soul” had changed when she met her baby for the first time. She also wrote that she would “never grow old” of seeing her baby wake up slowly, feeling “in awe” that they belonged to each other. Advertisement Advertisement She concluded the note with a touching message that no matter what her child would grow up to do or “choose to love”, she would always be her “biggest fan” and is already “proud” of being her mother. Mitchell was seen with Atlas Noa in a photoshoot for Vogue, where she explained how she and boyfriend Matte Babel decided on the name. The name was apparently one suggested by a close friend for her own daughter “a year and a half” ago. When the name Atlas was heard among a list of other names, Mitchell and Babel looked at each other and felt that it was perfect. However, they kept it under wraps from everybody and only revealed it today.
[via BuzzFeed, cover image via Kathy Hutchins / Shutterstock.com]
