
# How to sign up for our free Daily Record News WhatsApp service for the latest headlines and breaking news updates

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:22:30+00:00**

Author: **Nina Glencross**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/how-sign-up-free-daily-20723264)

Daily Record’s dedicated News WhatsApp service is one of the best ways to keep up to date with the latest headlines and breaking news alerts.
Keep up to date on the go with the biggest Scottish news stories in just a few simple steps.
Signing up is easy and completely free, just follow the steps below.
Your number won’t be shared with anyone else using the service. Read our Privacy Policy here .
If you are reading this on your mobile device, click here to be taken to WhatsApp to enroll in the service.
Alternatively , or if the link does not work for you, follow the steps below.
1. Send NEWS to 07717427073 in WhatsApp .
2. Then add the number to your phone contacts book as: Daily Record News (case sensitive). If the number is not saved in your contacts, the messages won't come through.
Important: Your phone number will only be used to receive WhatsApp alerts from Daily Record. Your phone number will never be shared with any other users, nor will it be used for marketing purposes.
The process is now complete! You will receive a daily bulletin with all the biggest Scottish stories of the day straight to your phone, as well as breaking news alerts.
1. Download WhatsApp for free from your mobile app store. More information here .
2. Follow steps 1-2 noted above.
WhatsApp Web is a computer-based extension of the WhatsApp account on your mobile.
If you do not have WhatsApp installed on your mobile you will need to download the app for free from your mobile app store.
Once you have done this follow the instructions below:
1. Click here from your desktop.
2. Open WhatsApp on your mobile and click 'settings'.
3. Click 'WhatsApp Web/Desktop' and scan the code which will appear on your computer screen. That's it, you're all set!
To cancel, text STOP at any time and we will remove you from the list.

        You can also keep up to date with the latest news, features and exclusives from Daily Record via our free app for iPhone and Android. Available to download from the App Store and Google Play .
      
