
# Liverpool's James Milner explains how he could have signed for rivals Everton

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:40:47+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpools-james-milner-explains-how-20788842)

James Milner has revealed how he could have ended up signing for Everton long before his Champions League exploits with Liverpool .
The 33-year-old midfielder has become a hero at Anfield after helping the team to the European Cup in June.
However he could have been plying his trade across Stanley Park had it not been for a bout of bad weather.
Milner started his career with boyhood club Leeds, before playing for several top flight clubs prior to his switch to Liverpool.
Yet it was in fact Everton who first came calling for his talents, offering Milner a trial after he impressed club scouts, but a twist of fate ensured it was never fulfilled.
Speaking in his autobiography, Milner said: "The first club that showed an interest was Everton.
“I might even have ended up signing for them if my trial hadn’t been called off because of snow.
“I had carried on playing for Westbrook Juniors and I ended up moving up to the Under-12s because they didn’t have an Under-10 or Under-11 team.
“I scored a lot of goals and I must have been doing okay because when it came to the end of that season, there were parents from some of the other teams complaining I shouldn’t be allowed to play against them because I was ‘too young’.
“I played a district match in Crosby and I was told afterwards an Everton scout had been watching and wanted me to go on trial.
“That was the first time I had even thought about the possibility of being a footballer, but then the trial game got called off because of snow.
“We kept waiting for another phone call, but it never came, so I thought my chance might have come and gone.”
Milner ended up signing on with Leeds academy at the age of 10, before later becoming the youngest-ever Premier League debutant just a few months shy of his 17th birthday.
And the rest, as they say, is history.
