
# Dog attacks are on the rise — here's what you need to do to make sure your pup remains safe

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:58:10+00:00**

Author: **Iskhandar Razak**

Original: [ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-11-07/dogs-attack-pets-explainer/11675998)

Dog-on-dog attacks are happening across Melbourne more often than people think.
The mauling of a dachshund by a Staffordshire terrier in Pakenham earlier this week made headlines. Both owners are blaming each other and defending their pets.
The attack raises questions about responsible dog ownership and what to do when dogs fight.
But with almost 5 million pet dogs in Australia, what are your responsibilities when you have a furry friend?
The statistics are hard to firm up because they are recorded individually by local councils. So we don't exactly know.
But behavioural vet Lewis Kirkham from Port Melbourne Vet Clinic says they're more common than we think.
"Working in an inner-city clinic, we would see probably perhaps once a week," Dr Kirkham says.
He says dog attacks are common in dog parks and in the home.
"It's often seasonal, in the spring and summer time when dogs are out in the park is when we see it more," Dr Kirkham says.
Even when you're doing the right thing and have your dog on a leash, it's always good to be vigilant and aware of other dogs that are nearby and off-leash.
There are a few behaviour signs you can look out for such as shaking, a dog tucking its tail between its legs, not making eye contact, licking its lips, and excessive panting.
"Yawning and licking lips are early anxiety signs," Dr Kirkham says.
"Often your own dog is a good indicator if something is about to happen. You might see subtle signs of being worried. It might be backing away if it is on the leash, or even off the leash."
If your dog is actively trying to get away from another dog and that dog keeps coming after yours, RSPCA vet Emma Bronts recommends separating the two or leaving the park.
"You can't predict how your dog is going to react in all situations. Just because you trust your dog doesn't mean you'll end up okay," Dr Bronts says.
Be safe. When dogs are fighting, everything becomes a threat and chances are if you get near their jaws, you'll be bitten.
Dr Bronts recommends throwing water on the dogs if possible and making loud noises.
Dr Kirkham says trying to pull the dog away if it's on a leash is a good idea, but be wary of going for the collar because it's close to the dog's teeth.
You can grab the dog's back leg as a last resort but be aware it could turn and focus its attack on you.
When the dogs are separated Dr Bronts says you need to take your pup to the vet immediately — even if it looks like they aren't hurt.
Before you leave the scene, exchange details with the other dog owner and any witnesses.
When dogs attack other dogs, local councils are responsible for investigating.
"Your council should be made aware of any dog that you are not comfortable with in your community," Dr Bronts says.
There's also a dangerous dogs hotline to help councils identify issues before they get violent.
A guide to your council's by-laws and abilities to investigate dog complaints can be found on the Know Your Council website.
Early socialisation and training is super important and ultimately you're responsible for your own dog.
If you adopt a puppy, Dr Bronts recommends making sure you socialise it and constantly introduce it to different environments so it can learn how to act in different situations.
"Take your pup to training school, or in a car with you when you go out," she says.
"The more people they can see, the more dogs they can see with you around the better they are going to be as they get older."
If you adopt an adult dog, Dr Bronts recommends slowly introducing them to a new environment and making sure they are initially on leash when experiencing new situations.
It's tricky. When a dog attacks a human, the police investigate and it's usually the dog and dog owner's fault.
But when a dog attacks another dog, it falls to local councils to investigate. And that can be a slow process.
Tina Andrianopoulos's dog was attacked by a pitbull cross two months ago and despite her providing two witnesses, medical evidence and a re-enactment of the incident to council investigators, she is yet to be provided with a decision.
The Footscray woman says the pitbull was on a lead when it leapt across a path and mauled her shih tzu, Henry.
"I spent $3,000 on vet bills and took two weeks off work. I've got deep trauma, he's got trauma, so I find it very difficult to leave the house," Ms Andrianopoulos said.
Ms Andrianopoulos is now considering legal action.
Legal Aid Victoria and the State Government have websites with advice for dog owners about attacks.
