
# One Of Captain America's Best Lines Was Added During Avengers: Endgame's Reshoots

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:01:47+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483703/one-of-captain-americas-best-lines-was-added-during-avengers-endgames-reshoots)

Written By
Chris Evans hands off Captain America's shield in Avengers: Endgame, but not before having some classic last lines. From "Avengers, assemble" to "I can do this all day," Steve Rogers definitely made his mark in Endgame before dancing away with Peggy Carter.
One of Captain America's best lines "capped" off the great "America's Ass" quote by Paul Rudd's Scott Lang/Ant-Man. Turns out, "That is America's ass" was added in reshoots to get another "ass" in the movie and allow Steve Rogers in on the self-referential Cap joke.
Avengers: Endgame co-writer Christopher Markus gave Syfy Wire a little more info on how that America's Ass joke came about. He said it started just as a quip from Robert Downey Jr.'s Tony Stark...
Co-writer Stephen McFeely said it was actually much later in Avengers: Endgame's reshoots that they decided to add Chris Evans' Captain America to the joke.
At that point, Christopher Markus said they asked themselves "Can we put another ass in the movie?" -- which is another conversation I wish I could've shrunk down to Ant-Man size to observe in the room. This is how the sausage is made, kids!
They obviously went with yes to another ass, and had modern Cap stare down at his younger ass and say "That is America's ass."
