
# 10 Dressing Tips That Can Transform Your Style Better Than a Magic Wand

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/inspiration-tips-and-tricks/10-dressing-tips-that-can-transform-your-style-better-than-a-magic-wand-794657/)

People who dress like their bosses get promotions faster. After all, people tend to judge a book by its cover and are drawn to people with the same style. This doesn’t mean that we all should look the same. But we can follow rules that suit all of us and help us look better.
We at Bright Side have compiled a list of universal dressing principles with seemingly minor but important details. And they can help you to not make mistakes that can ruin your look.
Visually divide your figure into 3 parts. The top should be 1/3 of the entire length of your body, and the remaining 2/3 should be left for trousers or skirts.
Oversize clothes look better when tucked in at the front. This will emphasize the waist and make you look slimmer.
The sleeve of a jacket should end near the wrist bone. The difference between the sleeves of the shirt and jacket should be 1.5-2 cm.
Wearing ankle boots with a short skirt can visually shorten your legs. So, it’s better to wear them with jeans, trousers, or long skirts, if you like ankle boots.
If you have doubts about the color of your pocket square, choose a white one. It’s a universal color that fits everyone. It’s also better to not match the color of your tie with your pocket square. Instead, they should complement each other.
Don’t overdo with them. There should be no more than 3 accessories. It can be glasses, a necklace, a hat, a brooch, earrings, or a shawl. Choose the 3 that you like the most and combine them.
Put on a warm sweater before buying a coat at a store. This will help you choose a coat that won’t be too tight or puff out from your back.
Choose tights to match your skin, they should be invisible. They should have no tan effect and should not be shiny. Black tights should be selected based on the thickness of your clothing. The thicker the clothes, the denser the tights.
You should choose the most common and classic length. This means that 1/2 — 2/3 of the hem of your pants should cover your shoes. This will help you look more mature.
Don’t dress in all one color. It’s better if you use different shades of one color.
What other dressing rules do you know? Which style do you prefer? You can share your thoughts in the comments.
Preview photo credit MEGA/EAST NEWS, Berzane Nasser/ABACA/EAST NEWS Illustrated by Natalia Breeva for BrightSide.me
