
# Terrified horse trying to flee fireworks gets impaled on wooden post

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:25:56+00:00**

Author: **Nathan Bevan**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/terrified-horse-trying-flee-fireworks-20820174)

A horse was so spooked by fireworks he tried to leap a five-foot hedge and became impaled on a wooden post.
Harry was lucky to survive after charging into the boundary fence of his enclosure, the owner says.
But he has undergone surgery for serious injuries, Wales Online says.
The accident happened in the early hours of Saturday (November 2) at Bryn Celyn in Holywell, north Wales.
The sound of explosions panicked the terrified horse.
Lily Roberts, on whose property the horse was being kept, said: "Each year, we leave all lights and radios on a whole three weeks before November 5 to prevent our horses and dogs undertaking unnecessary suffering."
The livery yard owner praised the RSPCA and vets.
 
Lily added: "We strongly believe that Harry was so frightened from the continuous banging of fireworks all evening that he ran away and decided to take on the five foot hedge in front of him.
"Sadly, he became impaled on one of the fence posts.
"I will be working with local authorities and the RSPCA to prevent things like this happening again.
"I am sick of seeing animals and humans suffer unnecessarily for these things. There are so many fantastic free fireworks displays around - stop setting them off in your back garden."
Jenny Anderton, a RSPCA inspector, said: "He must have been laying there all night and it took us until 1pm the next day to get him out, get him up and get him on a wagon for the vets to attempt surgery on his very serious wounds."
"We really hope Harry recovers - it's just so sad to think how frightened and distressed he must have been."
