
# Police hunting balaclava thugs who robbed OAPs at knifepoint in broad daylight

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:30:27+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/police-hunting-balaclava-thugs-who-20818039)

Police are hunting three thugs who robbed two pensioners at knifepoint in a terrifying daylight attack.
Two men forced their way into a house on Dumbrek Road, near to the junction with the Torridon Avenue in the Dumbrek area of Glasgow , between 1pm and 1.30pm on Monday.
The crooks robbed a 71-year-old woman at knifepoint, she wasn't injured.
The suspects were then disturbed by another 71-year-old woman who came into the house.
They also robbed the second woman who was left with minor injuries.
A four figure sum of cash and jewellery was stolen.
Meanwhile a third man was waiting in a vehicle outside the house.
The two robbers fled the scene with him, driving north towards the Govan area of the city. The first suspect is described as white, of a medium build and tall.
The second suspect is described as black, of medium build and tall.
Both were wearing a black balaclava and dark clothing.
The third suspect is described as around five feet, nine inches tall, of a medium to heavy build, around 30-years-old and with short dark hair.
He was wearing a blue checked shirt.
 
Detective Constable James Clark said: "The house was completely ransacked by the suspects and this was an extremely upsetting experience for both women.
"Our enquiries are ongoing however we're appealing to anyone who was in the area around that time who witnessed this, or saw anything suspicious, to contact us."
Anyone with information can contact police on 101 quoting incident number 1894 of November, 4 2019 or anonymously via Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.
