
# India's Davis Cup tie in Pakistan shifted to neutral venue

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:40:05+00:00**

Author: **Reuters**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/tennis/top-stories/indias-davis-cup-tie-in-pakistan-shifted-to-neutral-venue/articleshow/71911542.cms)

MUMBAI: India's Davis Cup tie against Pakistan at Islamabad this month must be played at a neutral venue after the latest advice from the International Tennis Federation's independent security advisors, the world governing body said on Monday.
The Asia/Oceania Group I tie, originally scheduled for September 14-15 in Islamabad, was postponed by the ITF to November 29-30 following a security review amid political tensions between the bitter neighbours.
The All India Tennis Association had requested the ITF to shift the tie to a neutral venue.
"Following a review of the latest advice given by the ITF's independent security advisors, the Davis Cup Committee has taken the decision that the Davis Cup Asia/Oceania Group I tie between Pakistan and India on 29-30 November 2019, must be played at a neutral venue," the ITF said in a statement.
"The ITF and Davis Cup Committee's first priority has always been the safety of athletes, officials and spectators and the decision was made on this basis," it added.
According to Davis Cup regulations, the Pakistan Tennis Federation (PTF) now has five working days to choose and confirm their proposed venue.
Pakistan was forced to host Davis Cup ties at neutral venues for more than a decade as teams refused to travel to the country citing security concerns.
They played their first home tie after a gap of 12 years against Iran in 2017, while Hong Kong was relegated and fined by the ITF after they refused to travel to Pakistan the same year.
