
# Overdose Training In Jail Gets Naloxone To Where It’s Needed Most, Data Show

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Janet Burns**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/janetwburns/2019/10/31/overdose-training-in-jail-gets-naloxone-to-where-its-needed-most-data-show/)

A first-of-its-kind review of Overdose Education and Naloxone Distribution (OEND) in jails shows how effective such programs can be at stopping overdose deaths in the hardest-hit communities. An article published November 1 in the Journal of Correctional Health Care revealed that nearly a third of people who received training while in a San Francisco county jail to use the overdose-reversing drug naloxone, and who were given the drug to hang onto, later reported using that training and medicine to reverse an overdose.
Researchers found that during four years of that program, run by the San Francisco-based Drug Overdose Prevention and Education (DOPE) Project in cooperation with Jail Health Services, 637 people participated in the training, 67% of whom received naloxone upon release. Less than 4% of them had previously received the training from community-based programs.
Of those who were given naloxone, 32% later reported that they had used it to reverse an overdose; 44% later received naloxone refills at community-based DOPE locations in San Francisco (either because they used it on someone, lost it, or their possessions were stolen or discarded by another person, city workers, or police).
“This confirms that implementation of OEND in criminal justice settings is feasible and reaches people who have not previously been trained as well as those willing to act as overdose responders,” researchers concluded. The jail program is still in operation, and one of a growing number of jail-based OEND programs around the world, though data on their success has previously been hard to gather.
Researchers and program leaders behind the review say that jails nationwide can adopt this model, and help get life-saving naloxone to the people and communities in their own areas who need it the most.
Alex Kral, a San Francisco-based researcher and epidemiologist at RTI who co-authored the study, commented by phone that, given the fact that around half of incarcerated persons are locked up on drug charges, jails are good places to find “not only people who use drugs, but are in those communities where people are impacted by drugs.”
“Also people who are dependent on drugs, and go to jail for a while, come out, and may use the same amount of opioids they were used to but no longer have a tolerance for, so the same amount can lead to overdose. It’s a particularly risky period.” Kral pointed to a 2007 study by Ingrid Binswanger and colleagues which found that, in Washington State, people who were recently released from prison were 129 times more likely than others to die from an overdose.
Kral added, “Our hope is that this paper, the first evaluation of its kind of any of these programs, will provide some scope of how effective they can be.”
Along with drug reform advocates at DOPE and the Harm Reduction Coalition, DOPE’s parent organization, Kral also helped put together a primer to help jails and healthcare systems start their own OEND programs.
“We’ve got tons of jails in this country, and they should all be doing this,” he said.
Consultant Eliza Wheeler, who previously led DOPE and put together the San Francisco jail program during the time it was reviewed, said in a phone interview that the majority of people they’ve trained in jail are people of color, and low-income, who don’t otherwise have access to naloxone, too.
“All that puts them at a great structural risk for overdose,” Wheeler said.
“In 2019, while all these people who kind of don’t know what they’re talking about are talking about naloxone, and centering their efforts on law enforcement, and on pharmacies, what we really want to center on is people who are using drugs – having low-threshold, harm reduction access to naloxone.”
Kristen Marshall, the current DOPE Project Manager, also emphasized by phone that San Francisco drug users – who are consistently criminalized for their use, or homelessness, or various other, often overlapping factors – are the ones finding success on the front lines.
“In San Francisco, people who use drugs are responsible for most overdose reversals in the city, out of all first responders,” she said. “People who experience homelessness, who have experienced incarceration or continue to experience it, they’re doing the most; we’re really proud of the relationship we have with Jail Health, because of their work and dedication to the health of people who are incarcerated.”
Marshall continued, “I think it’s really special, and extraordinary, what people who use drugs in these communities do to make sure that San Francisco’s overdose rate is kept really low compared to other places. We have them to thank for that.”
“They are constituents of our city that city leaders are accountable for.” Overall, she said, “Support for opioid recovery without support for those impacted by homelessness, and by incarceration, is an empty and shallow support.”
