
# How to manage kids’ texts, calls, and contacts w/ Screen Time on iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:58:21+00:00**

Author: **Michael Potuck**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/07/how-to-manage-kids-texts-calls-contacts-iphone-ipad/)

Apple is expanding its Screen Time software that gives parents more control of their family’s devices with a highly requested feature: the ability to manage kids’ texts, phone calls, FaceTime calls, and even contacts on iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch. Read on for how to set it all up in iOS 13.3 and later…
Since Screen Time debuted on iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch in iOS 12, there hasn’t been a way to fully manage kids’ texts, phone calls, FaceTime calls, and contacts. Now Apple has delivered granular control of those areas with iOS 13.3 and parents will no doubt be pumped for the feature.
For right now, iOS 13.3 is only available as a developer or public beta. You can learn more about Apple’s free public beta program here if you’d like to try it out. But before long, the feature will be available to all.
Below we’ll cover how to set up Screen Time on your kid’s device and how to set up Communication Limits, skip further below if you want to jump to the new limits.

        Note: Both the Family Organizer’s device and the child’s device will need to be running iOS 13.3 or later
      
Here’s how the process looks:
If you want to manage your kid’s contacts, toggle it on below the allowed communication section.
After turning it on, you or your child will need to approve it on their device under Screen Time > Requests: Manage Contacts > tap Approve.
When that’s done, as a Family Organizer, you’ll be able to manage contacts as shown in the image above on the right.

        AirPods Pro:
      

        iPhone & iPad:
      

        macOS Catalina:
      
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
