
# Donald Trump Jr. claims his father let him 'hang out with Michael Jackson' as a child

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:12:59+00:00**

Author: **John Gage**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/donald-trump-jr-claims-his-father-let-him-hang-out-with-michael-jackson-as-a-child)

Donald Trump Jr. said his father, President Trump, allowed him to hang out with Michael Jackson when he was a kid, and the pop singer lived in Trump Tower.
“Oh, and by the way, given all the things my father has been called, particularly a ‘racist,’ it sure sounds odd that he’d let his son vacation with a black man or hang out with Michael Jackson, doesn’t it? If he’s a racist, he’s sure not very good at it," Trump Jr. said in his book released Tuesday.
Jackson enjoyed playing video games with Trump Jr. and his brother Eric, and Trump allowed the singer to have one of the kid's Nintendo games because he enjoyed playing it so much.
"One day in Eric’s room, my father saw how much Michael enjoyed playing Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles with us on Nintendo and told him he could take the game home. My game!" Trump Jr. recalled in his book. "And here was Michael Jackson, probably a billionaire at this point, and he took it!"
Trump Jr. said he was shocked when he heard Jackson had been accused of molesting kids. "My experience with Michael does not include any of what he’s been accused of," he said.
Trump said in 2016 that Jackson called his son, Eric, "beautiful" and wanted to take him to his Neverland Ranch in California. The president said he never let Jackson take him and was very glad about the decision.
