
# British Airways passengers held at Heathrow Airport after 'incident' on flight

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:30:13+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-british-airways-passengers-held-20837409)

British Airways passengers have been held at Heathrow Airport after reports of an incident on the flight from Budapest this evening.
Five people who had been onboard flight BA867 were looked over by paramedics, according to a statement from the London Ambulance Service.
Passengers on the flight were 'detained' by emergency services after the plane landed at roughly 7pm, reports MyLondon.
One woman reportedly collapsed in distress while they were being held.
Those onboard were not told the nature of the emergency.

        
          Have you been affected by this story? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk
        
      
 
A London Ambulance Service spokesperson said: “We were called at 6.55pm today to reports of an incident at Heathrow Airport, Hounslow.
“We dispatched an ambulance crew, two incident response officers and our hazardous area response team (HART) to the scene.
“We assessed five people at the scene but did not take anyone to hospital.”
Geraldine Fusciardi, who was one of the passengers detained, said: "We were locked in the room for about 40 minutes. One woman collapsed in distress just as they were letting us out. No apology.
"Five minutes after they told us it was a major incident and physically prevented people from leaving the room - including some distressed women who needed the toilet - they released us all with some vague comments about engineering issue on plane."
Mark Weston on Twitter said his wife and son were on the flight and were 'physically checked' by no information was provided about the incident.
A BA spokesperson said: "Our aircraft requested a priority landing as a precaution after experiencing a minor technical issue.
"Our teams looked after our customers and helped get them on their way as soon as possible. We are sorry to our customers for the delay to their travel plans."
London Fire Brigade have confirmed they attended but couldn't provide any further information.
A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police said: "Police at Heathrow Airport were called to an inbound flight from Budapest following reports of an issue on the plane.
"Officers, London Ambulance Service and London Fire Brigade attended. There were no reported injuries.
"None of those on board required medical attention from LAS. There are no reported offences or matters for police attention.
"The fault or smell reported on the aircraft is believed to be related to a mechanical issue."
