
# Google Pixelbook named the most durable Chromebook in rigorous drop test

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:18:22+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/google-pixelbook-named-most-durable-chromebook-rigorous-drop-test?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Laptop Mag created a torture chamber for Chromebooks to replicate the spills they're likely to take in schools, as classrooms are a key selling space for the secure and easily-managed machines. 11 laptops from seven manufacturers were dropped from shoulder height, pushed off a table by a robot arm (seriously, go check out the video), and otherwise punished by gravity as they met the harsh reality of carpeting and concrete.
Google's almost-$1000 Pixelbook came out on top, but frankly, you could break six of the second-place Samsung Chromebook 3 and replace them all with brand new devices before you'd spend as much.
Unfortunately, Samsung can't take the durability crown because its convertible Chromebook Plus 2-in-1 was the eighth-place laptop, as the nature of a 2-in-1 obviously makes it more fragile. That seemed to be a theme, as Lenovo took the number three spot with the Chromebook 330e, but the 2-in-1 Lenovo C330 came in second-to-last. Despite all of that, Google seems to have struck gold by finding a 2-in-1 design for the Pixelbook that can withstand even the worst of abuse.
Surprisingly, Laptop Mag's (former?) favorite Chromebook, the ASUS Chromebook Flip C434, came in dead last. It's worth checking out the list to see all the damage to your favorites from these manufacturers, as well as HP, Dell, and Acer, which performed as you might guess. Dell and HP were near-top workhorses. Acer was bottom-five.
You get what you pay for
We knew Google's Pixelbook delivered on luxury feel and performance, but who knew it could be so rugged? It came through Laptop Mag's drop tests nicely and remains a solid recommendation, if you can afford it.
Philip Berne worked from 2011 to 2017 as part of Samsung's Public Relations team and maintains no business or financial relationships with Samsung nor is he currently bound by non-disclosure agreement.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Better battery life Samsung Galaxy S11e leak hints at significantly improved battery life A new leak suggests the Galaxy S11e will be equipped with a much bigger battery than the Galaxy S10e.
      

        Old-school Android Do you still root and mod your Android phones? Rooting and modding Android phones used to be incredibly popular, but in recent years, the urge to do this seems to have died down. Do you still like to tinker with your devices?
      

        more privacy Latest WhatsApp update lets you control who can add you to a group WhatsApp has made a few changes to its Group Privacy Settings to give users more control over who can add them to a group chat.
      

        Tappity tap tap CLICK A guide to finding your new favorite Chromebook keyboard! Whether you need it for an expensive Pixel Slate or a much cheaper Chromebit, you can get a great keyboard for Chrome OS devices of every style and connection type.
      
