
# 15 kitchen gadgets that will make prepping your next meal easier

Published at: **2019-11-02T23:00:28+00:00**

Author: **Boing Boing&#39;s Shop**

Original: [Boing Boing](https://boingboing.net/2019/11/02/15-kitchen-gadgets-that-will-m.html)

You don't need to be a TV chef to take advantage of the same accessories they use - and if you're still cooking with hand-me-down kitchenware from your parents, it might be time to trade up. Here are 15 kitchen accessories that will make dinnertime prep shorter and the results tastier.

        Gemelli Twin Oven
      
This is no mere toaster oven. The Gemelli puts a full convection oven on your countertop, perfectly sized for family meals. There's a rotisserie function for main courses, and a dedicated drawer underneath that makes homemade pizza a snap.
MSRP: $379.99

        Sale Price: $279.99
      

        Chefman 1.7L Color-Changing Electric Kettle
      
Stop listening for the kettle. With the Chefman, you can see your water reach its boiling point as the container changes from black to red. It comes with its own heating base which shuts off automatically when the pot is empty.
MSRP: $49.99

        Sale Price: $37
      

        StirMATE® Smart Pot Stirrer
      
Not everyone has the endurance to stir a potful of food for hours on end. That's why the StirMATE® Smart Pot Stirrer exists. Just clamp this well-designed stirrer onto the side and go work on other prep - or just relax. A long arm stirs the pot, while a horizontal short arm gently scours the bottom to prevent food from sticking and scorching.

        MSRP: $59.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $49.99
        
      

        Martha Stewart 8-Qt 7-in-1 Digital Stainless Steel Pressure Cooker
      
From the lifestyle guru herself comes this essential cooker. It's got a large capacity and 14 presets that can handle any dish easily, from stews to yogurt.

        MSRP: $109.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $79.99
        
      

        SmartPan® SlideChop Vegetable Chopper
      
Cooked or raw, veggies are no match for this versatile chopper. It works with a simple back-and-forth motion, and with a suction base, you can even do your chopping one-handed.

        MSRP: $39.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $19.99
        
      

        SubSafe™ Sandwich Container
      
Sandwiches seem like a perfect fit for a beach day - until you figure in the sand and water. These modular, waterproof, BPA-free containers are great for keeping your lunch dry and delicious, and they can do the same for personal items too. They even float!

        MSRP: $17.95
      

        
          Sale Price: $15
        
      

        Spoon Buddy™
      
The suction cup base on this ingenious yet simple device means you can have a handy holder for dirty spoons anywhere you need it. But it's also flexible and heat-resistant, making it useful as a jar opener, among other things.

        MSRP: $12.99
      

        
          Sale Price:$9.99
        
      

        Mellow Salt & Pepper Magnet Self-Open Set
      
Here's a shaker set that opens its own lids. Thanks to a magnetized base, the lids on these salt and pepper shakers pop up for use as soon as you pick them up.

        MSRP: $39.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $17.99
        
      

        AnySharp PRO Chef Knife Sharpener
      
This intelligent sharpener requires just a minimum amount of force to sharpen and extend the life of any knife - even those with a serrated edge. The tungsten carbide whetstone inside conveys an edge without shaving off more metal than necessary.

        MSRP: $29.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $24.99
        
      

        11-Piece Stainless Steel Cocktail Bar Tool Set
      
If Batman tended bar, this would be his utility belt. The rustic bamboo stand holds not just the usual shaker and jigger but four wine mouths, a crushed ice hammer and more.

        MSRP: $55.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $34.99
        
      

        Chefman Carbon Fiber Electric Smokeless Indoor Grill
      
Get those telltale grill marks and backyard flavor from the comfort of your kitchen. The carbon fiber grill heats up to 450 degrees safely, smoke-free, and quicker than that charcoal smoker on the back porch.

        MSRP: $149.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $109.99
        
      

        The MeatStick® True Wireless Meat Thermometer: Xtender Set
      
Get perfectly cooked meat the truly modern way with this Bluetooth-enabled thermometer. Leave it in while you cook, go watch the game and wait for the alert on your phone that tells you when it reaches your preset temperature.

        MSRP: $84.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $59.99
        
      

        Snapbit™ Handsfree Fits-All Strainer
      
Get one less strainer to clean with every meal, thanks to this clip-on silicone sieve. It attaches to any size bowl, cup or pan to allow you to strain easily and without the extra mess.

        MSRP: $34.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $12
        
      

        Dockside Bakeware 5-Piece Ceramic Stoneware Baking Set
      
The cobalt blue trim and simple design make this an heirloom set, but they've got more than just looks. The non-stick enamel coating and quick-cooling exterior make them equally suitable for cooking in the oven or microwave.

        MSRP: $149.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $99.99
        
      

        Hand-Forged Damascus Steel Chef Knife Set: 3 Pieces
      
There's up to 200 layers of steel in these knives, and the mix of high and low carbon content in each of them account for the distinctive look. They're extremely durable, and the pakka wood handles serve as the perfect complement.

        MSRP: $89
      

        
          Sale Price: $69.99
        
      
