
# Ringbrothers Shoots For The Moon With A 1969 Chevy Camaro Named Valkyrja

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:30:02+00:00**

Author: **Steven Symes**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/ringbrothers-shoots-moon-1969-chevy-173002102.html)

When Ringbrothers calls a project car their “most ambitious to date,” it’s time to sit up and take notice. Actually, any Ringbrothers build is reason to take notice, but this customized 1969 Chevrolet Camaro called Valkyrja is especially interesting.
Providing a stout 890-horsepower is a 416ci Wegner Motorsports LS3 with a 2.9-liter Whipple supercharger bolted up. Channeling all that to the John’s Industries 9-inch rear axle is a Bowler six-speed Tremec which has been customized to handle the potent output. Of course, with that kind of extreme force the suspension and chassis had to be upgraded, with Detroit Speed Engineering addressing both.
As if that isn’t intimidating enough, this build pushes things even further. A custom BASF paint mix named TOTOPKG Green gives this car a unique look. Many of the body and interior components are made of carbon fiber, like the hood, roof, side mirrors, grille surround, front splitter, and rear valance. Custom HRE wheels help bring the whole exterior together.
Making a simple yet impactful statement under the hood of this Chevrolet are red valve and supercharger covers next to black components. An aggressive snarl comes from the Flowmaster Stainless Steel Super 44 Series exhaust, with both tailpipes protruding from the rear fascia.
To create this monstrous restomod Chevy Camaro, Ringbrothers used cutting-edge CAD design, 3D scanning, and other technologies. Custom parts were created using 3D printing and CNC machining, resulting in a beautifully complex machine.
“We try and top ourselves every year, and this build was no different,” said Mike Ring, co-owner of Ringbrothers. Of course, many of the components used for this build are available for purchase, like the shift knob, door handles, and window cranks. While you might not be able to afford a car like Valkyrja, you can at least give yours some upgraded touches.
Valkyrja is the Old Nose spelling for Valkyrie, the mythological women who selected which fallen soldiers on the battlefield were worthy of being transported to Valhalla. It was the Belgian owner of this car who chose the name, and he will take delivery after the 2019 SEMA Show.
