
# Christopher Jullien in Celtic scouting mission as he enlists Paul Pogba for inside track on Lazio

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott McDermott, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/scott-mcdermott/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/christopher-jullien-celtic-scouting-mission-20794876)

Celtic know they’re in for a hostile reception from Lazio fanatics in Rome.
But the man who silenced them at Parkhead two weeks ago says the more abuse he gets at the Stadio Olimpico on Thursday – the BETTER he’ll play.
Christopher Jullien used to thrive on the pressure of playing away at Marseille’s raucous Stade Velodrome when he was at Auxerre and Toulouse.
And his best performance in a Hoops shirt since arriving in Glasgow was at Ibrox in Celtic’s 2-0 Old Firm win.
The £7million centre-back seems to perform at his best when he’s got a partisan crowd on his back.
And that’s why facing the Italians in their own backyard this week holds no fears for the Frenchman.
The ground won’t be full as UEFA have ordered Lazio to close their infamous Curva Nord section after fans made fascist salutes against Rennes.
But the Ultras have still vowed to “raise a wall of noise” and “sing for 90 minutes” as they bid to avenge their 2-1 loss at Parkhead a fortnight ago.
Jullien bagged a late winner in that Europa League clash and now wants to silence their fans again in Rome.
When asked if it bothers him when opposition fans give him stick, Jullien said: “Oh no, I love that!
“I don’t know for certain that it makes me a better player – but it makes me more focused. When you face a hostile environment and make the crowd silent, that’s really enjoyable.
“When I played in France we had games against Marseille, who have a lot of fans. But in one game, we got a draw so all of their fans flipped and started cheering us!
“If the Italian fans want to be with us, we’ll welcome that. That doesn’t happen at Celtic. Here, it’s another level but it’s really enjoyable.
“The Rangers game at Ibrox kind of got the best out of me. It was a really good game and we performed so well.
“The fact they had almost the entire stadium but went silent was great for us.
“We had their fans on our back but I was more focused on my opponent in that game.
“It was the first Old Firm match so I tried not to let the crowd stick in my mind. But I just enjoyed the feeling of victory and seeing the fans enjoy it too.
“When we go to Rome, they’ll do everything they can to beat us.
 
“But I can’t wait. It’s our goal to stay top in this group and that means we’re the target for the other teams.
“We’ll see how it develops on the field but I’m sure we’ll perform well because we’ve trust between ourselves.
“It’s Lazio who have to attack us and try to beat us. They’re behind us in the group so they have to do something on Thursday night. They have to score and win. But we’re going for the victory. We know if we win it will help us qualify and I can’t wait to be out there now.”
Jullien claimed the winning goal against Lazio was the best moment of his career. But the defender didn’t hog the limelight for too long.
And he’s revealed that in the days after his header that sparked scenes of joy in the Parkhead stands, he analysed all the MISTAKES he had made in the game instead.
As far as Jullien is concerned, that’s the only reason he’ll maintain the high standards he has set himself since arriving in Scotland.
He said: “I got some attention after the goal but it was just attention.
“Since I got here the fans have been really nice to me.
“But I just do my job. It was a long time since I scored and I should have got more for Celtic already.
“After the game, it was really good in the locker room, the atmosphere with the players and fans was nice.
“But after that I had to be focused because it’s the next game that’s important. And I’m working so hard to be even better, to be more efficient with my long balls and my headers.
“In the Lazio game I scored one but it should have been two or three.
 
“I can’t wait to get better for the team and this club.
“Immediately after the Lazio game everyone was talking about the goal because it was one of the last things in people’s minds.
“But the two guys I went to see first at full-time were Kristoffer Ajer and Fraser Forster.
“I wasn’t happy with my second-half performance at all.
“I missed the movements of their striker and Kris did great to get back and cover when they hit the post.
“If he had not got back, they could have scored and the game would have been completely different.
“There was also a moment when I slipped and Fraser was there to save us.
“When the game finished the staff and the trainer said to me: ‘Don’t worry, everything is fine’.
“But in my mind I always remember the mistakes and think about how things can be better next time.”
The Europa tie on Thursday will be Jullien’s first match on Italian soil but he knows what to expect having spoken to pal and ex-Juventus star Paul Pogba – as well as former team-mates such as Soualiho Meite who plays at Torino.
It’s a country that has encountered serious problems with racism on the terraces but Jullien is refusing to contemplate a situation where Celtic’s black players suffer abuse.
He said: “This will be my first time in Italy but I have a lot of friends who have played there. I’ve spoken to Pogba about the stuff they used to do at Juventus.
“I’m not worried about racism. We have to be focused on us and I know Celtic supporters have a good reputation home and away.
“I’m not scared about it, I’ll just focus on the field and I hope the two sets of fans can make a great atmosphere.”
