
# Dad sent teenager he raped so brutally she couldn't walk insulting text message

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:18:12+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/dad-sent-teenager-raped-brutally-20836246)

A dad raped a drunk teenager so badly she had difficulty walking.
And Fallah George later sent his victim a text message apologising for the vicious sex attack.
George met his 16-year-old victim when they were drinking alcohol with a group in a park in Perth, Western Australia.
He asked the girl to walk with him alone before forcing himself on her.
George pushed the girl against a shed and began kissing her, telling her to "chill" when she tried to make him stop, the WA District Court heard on Thursday.
Realising her friends had gone, the girl tried to run away, but tripped over, spilling the contents of her handbag.
George then raped the teen while she lay on the ground, holding his hand over her throat for part of the attack to stop her calling out.
Judge Linda Petrusa said: "You were concerned only about your own sexual gratification."
After the attack, George left the girl at a fast-food restaurant where she was picked up by a friend, telling him she wanted her stepmother.
Sentencing, Petrusa said the girl "couldn't move and had makeup all over her face."
She added: "She had dirt in her hair and on her clothes, and her knees had blood on them."
The girl was taken to hospital after the sexual assault in December 2016 but didn't involve police until about four months later.
In his final message to the girl, George "apologised" for raping her.
"If I did, I'm sorry, okay? I know sorry won't change anything but please, it won't happen again because it's my mistake and I deeply apologise for my mistake."
The judge said the girl had been left physically and emotionally hurt and had ongoing night terrors and agoraphobia.
She had also turned to drugs to comfort herself, the court heard.
Father-of-one George, who was 20 at the time and moved to Australia as a refugee from Guinea age 10, was found guilty of sexual penetration without consent.
Having been sentenced to five-and-a-half years behind bars he must serve at least three-and-a-half before he can be eligible for parole.
