
# Servers.com offers network hosting for your game projects

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:34:53+00:00**

Author: **Sponsored**

Original: [PC Gamer](https://www.pcgamer.com/serverscom-offers-network-hosting-for-your-game-projects/)

 
Servers.com understands the myriad needs of game projects big and small. Whether you’re working for a major publisher on the latest battle royale phenomenon, or hammering away at an indie passion project aiming to be the next Untitled Goose Game, they provide server hosting for over 50 games every year. They’re a company that appreciates the pinpoint precision needed in online shooters, or the complexities of hosting ever-expanding player counts in an MMO.
Ask any game developer about the toughest time in a development cycle, and you’ll almost always hear the same thing: the months running up to a game’s launch. It’s at this point, when years of inspired ideas and designs start inching scarily close to becoming a reality, that it’s critical for everything to stick together and just /work/. A game launch should be your finest hour, not a nightmare marked by long bloodshot nights in front of the computer and last-moment delays.
One of the most important foundations to smooth game development or other IT project is solid server infrastructure. 
Server infrastructure may not be as exciting to think about as narrative design or that standout mechanic at the heart of your game, but it can prevent the kind of network mishaps you really don’t want to be fretting about during the 25th hour of development. 
With 14 data centers spanning four continents, Servers.com offers a robust web of networks that will help hawk-eyed snipers hit their targets unfettered by latency. Servers required to host growing player numbers, like MMOs or online survival games, can benefit from the scaling available on Servers.com’s Dell servers. If player counts start pushing your existing server limits, you can automatically upgrade them within an hour, with a load balancing algorithm ensuring that the game, app, or whatever network-reliant project you’re working on continues without a hitch.
As a baseline, Servers.com offers 40GBps per server, Tier 3 data centers, and a free private network between them. You’ll be taking advantage of Servers.com’s gaming-dedicated Hybrid cloud platform. This is central to Servers.com, the almost limitless possibilities of the cloud, with the safety and reliability backed up by bare metal servers.
Beyond that, the kind of package you get is up to you. Create your own dedicated servers on the Servers.com website, or pick a server tailored specifically to host high-load gaming. These servers are brimming with power, packed with up to four Intel Xeon CPUs, up to 768GB RAM and searingly fast SSDs, alongside all their other features.
If you’re unsure about the server hosting package that’s right for your project, Servers.com can give you a call to chat about what you need. With so many plates to juggle in the buildup to your game’s release, it can help to offload one of them onto a company that’s been topping the servers game for years.
For more information, or if you just want to say ‘hi’, you can reach Servers.com across a number of channels. You can go to the official website, or hit them up on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube.
