
# American Companies Are on the Verge of Trading with Huawei Again

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:51:12+00:00**

Author: **Kenn Abuya**

Original: [Techweez](https://techweez.com/2019/11/04/american-companies-are-on-the-verge-of-trading-with-huawei-again/)

If you have been following the Huawei story, then you are aware that the Chinese networking corporation was slapped with a ban by the U.S. Department of Commerce. At the risk of bringing this up from time to time, particularly when we are highlighting a Huawei coverage, the ban stopped American companies from conducting business with Huawei because the company is reportedly not transparent, among other political-motivated reasons.
Now, a couple of days ago, it was revealed that the ban would see a lift because obviously, both sides of the world are suffering from the animosity created by the trade axe. This development had been predicted, having started a few days after the ban went live. Apparently, it was clear Huawei was going to be affected most here considering its smartphones are very popular across the globe and would be unusable to customers who have invested in the Google ecosystem, save for those in China where ironically Google services, among other Western-affiliated products and services, are not allowed.
The suspension of the ban has been discussed extensively for months now (the ruling started in May 2019). A few months down the line, the U.S. Commerce Department revealed that it was developing a solution that would see American companies granted special/restricted licenses to do business with Huawei. The permits would only allow the exchange of widely available parts that have been determined safe for use by the North American superpower. At that time, it was reported that 130 companies had applied for the licenses.
So far, officials privy to the matter say they have received more than 260 applications that will be granted soon upon the conclusion of the review process. However, not all companies will be allowed to trade with Huawei.
It is expected that Google will be granted permission to package Google products and services in Huawei devices. If that will be the case, then we may see Huawei push Google apps to the Mate 30 series of phones whose sales have been eclipsed by other brands for the aforementioned reasons.
