
# Ohio detective in 'grave' condition after shot twice in face during drug raid

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:04:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [ABC News](https://abcnews.go.com/US/ohio-detective-critical-condition-shot-dea-task-force/story?id=66758302)

A police detective was critically wounded Monday night after being shot during a drug raid in Dayton, Ohio.
The Dayton Police Department detective, part of a Drug Enforcement Administration task force, was shot while serving a drug-related search warrant at a residence just before 7 p.m. local time. He was rushed to a nearby hospital in critical condition.
No one else was injured, according to Dayton Police Chief Richard Biehl.
Officer Jorge Del Rio, a 30-year veteran of the force, was shot twice in the face, and the bullets "penetrated deep," according to the department. As of Tuesday afternoon, he was described as being in "grave" condition and "under advanced life support," the department said.
"Today is a very difficult day for the Dayton Police Department and our federal partners," Biehl told reporters at a press conference Monday night. "As we move forward tonight, please keep this officer, his family, our department, the DEA and the entire community in your thoughts, prayers and care."
Investigators have searched the residence and are interviewing several people.
Three weapons, each with 30-round magazines, were recovered at the home along with large amounts of suspected fentanyl, a potent synthetic opioid, marijuana and cash, according to Biehl.
The suspected shooter, Nathan Goddard, was charged with felonious assault on an agent and two others are facing federal drug conspiracy charges.

        ABC News' Karma Allen contributed to this report.
      
