
# Volkswagen to focus on SUVs for Indian market

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:39:59+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/volkswagen-to-focus-on-suvs-for-indian-market/)

SUVs have always been the most popular body type in India, encouraging different automobile manufacturers to churn out more SUVs / SUV-like offerings. German car manufacturer Volkswagen has now stated that the all-new offerings that it plans to launch next in the country will be an SUV. This update comes in when the company is planning to regain its lost market share that has gone below 1 per cent. While it will continue to offer the existing products and will also introduce periodic face lifts, VW India will be banking on SUVs for its future growth in the country. The company will launch the T-Roc and T-Cross from next year onward.
In an interview with livemint, Steffen Knapp, director, Volkswagen Passenger Cars, a division of VW Group Sales India Pvt. Ltd mentioned, "We will transform Volkswagen into an SUV brand in India,". The company's wholesale figures stand at 34,859 units which amounts to 1 per cent of the country's total passenger car market. And the same for Skoda Auto is less that 0.5 per cent. "We will continue to sell the existing cars here, will replace them time to time (with new face-lifts), but the additional products that we plan to bring will only be SUVs. That's because I see this trend of rising demand for SUVs in the local market here. I believe that the SUV is the car for India more than any other country in the world," Knapp told livemint.

        Read:
      

        2019 Volkswagen T-Roc first drive review
      

        Image gallery: 2019 Volkswagen T-Roc R
      

        Volkswagen T-Roc SUV unveiled
      
