
# Parentry: Wearing ‘sacrifice’ as a medal of honour?

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Christobelle Joseph**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/opinion/you/parentry-wearing-sacrifice-as-a-medal-of-honour/articleshow/71883141.cms)

Stop it. It’s harmful to you and your children I’m tired of hearing Mum say she sacrificed her life for me!” she said, stifling anger, “I didn’t ask to be born. She had me. Did I have a choice?” My heart mirrored that. I remembered saying it to my own mother when she refused to send me to the college I chose. She told me I couldn’t go there, because my dad worked abroad and we couldn’t lead three separate lives in three separate cities. I felt disappointed and angry, but mostly – trapped! She also told me that she’d “sacrificed” her life with Dad, in a foreign country (viewed as a great luxury, in my childhood), just so I could have a good, uninterrupted school education. Not returning the “sacrifice” was something hurtful, I deduced. These emotional outbursts are common with parents, especially mums who “sacrifice” their careers to be caregivers – sometimes with no choice. It’s fine when you realise how noble it is, but stinks when you notice how tiring and never-ending it can seem. And, of course, it stinks worse every time you meet friends/juniors earning enviable salaries in positions you could have rocked. Or even when your child says something that makes you realise he/she thinks that all you do is cook/drive. Ouch. How do we negotiate this parenting curveball? Is it wrong to “sacrifice” for your child? I think so. And before you roll your eyes, let me explain in the words of a few parents I interviewed. “There is always an element of sacrifice (for lack of a better word) that is fruitful in any kind of relationship,” says an entrepreneur mum of two. Another stay-at-home mum says, “The minute one terms it as a ‘sacrifice’, it means one doesn’t really want to do it, but for the sake of the children, have to.” True, the word seems to be the problem. And if you chose it, it works better to embrace it as a ‘choice’. My concern is with the repercussions of the “sacrificing” attitude. It’s loaded with negativity. And I’m not alone in thinking so. A counsellor-mother is seeing the dangerous effects daily. She says, “There are various implications like deep-rooted bitterness for parents. Their children are their stronghold, self-worth, and confidence. So this leads to an ineffective life and relationship. This detrimentally affects the marriage as well.” That’s one side. “For the child, they feel choked, controlled, and indirectly they become too dependent (umbilical cord still attached). Some kids rebel/go into a shell because they don’t know how else to react. Some kids lack confidence because at some point they realise there was too much involvement from the parent, and now they are left to fend for themselves. Deep inside, they are made to feel they are the reason why the moms have no life,” she concludes. See the depth? This is why I spotlight this hidden issue. And here’s my conclusion – the right job with the wrong attitude is sticky. ‘Sacrifice’ may encapsulate that “poor me” feeling completely, and parenthood is full of such overwhelming moments. But I take the analogy of the oxygen masks on a flight. Put on your mask before helping another, even if that is your infant. Collective wisdom seems to be – don’t lose your identity in the process of caring. Self care is vital. Get dressed for the day, though you don’t have to. Doing something creative should be prioritised. Working from home cuts you off from community, so make that extra attempt at social interaction. And if you still do, ask yourself if the altar is worth the sacrifice. Think. That. Through.
