
# Threats made against UUP staff over election pact row

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/02/news/threats-made-against-uup-staff-over-election-pact-row-1754514/)

POLICE have been called to investigate threats made against UUP staff amid unionist pressure on the party to form an electoral pact with the DUP.
UUP leader-elect Steve Aiken on Thursday night confirmed that threats had been made against party staff, saying it undermined "the entire principle of democracy".
The MLA has faced mounting criticism from some unionists for ruling out a pact with the DUP in the forthcoming Westminster election.
But speaking on BBC's The View programme, he appeared to row back on his commitment as he refused to say if the UUP would contest every Northern Ireland constituency.
People have contacted the UUP's headquarters to complain about not having a pact with the DUP in North Belfast, the broadcaster yesterday reported.
It also said that police were understood to have been informed about threats made online.
DUP deputy leader Nigel Dodds, who is seeking re-election as MP for North Belfast, condemned the threats.
"There have been some reports of intimidation and threats issued towards members and activists from the UUP. Any such incidents are deplorable and must be totally condemned," he said.
"The only appropriate way to express your views and the most effective way to send a message in our society is through the ballot box."
