
# Varcoe: From worst to improving, economies of Calgary, Edmonton expected to rebound

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:37:11+00:00**

Author: **Chris Varcoe, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/columnists/varcoe-after-a-mild-recession-economic-growth-will-return-to-city-and-province-in-2020)

Better economic times are coming in 2020 after a “mild recession” sideswiped Calgary, Edmonton and most of Alberta throughout this year.
A new study by the Conference Board of Canada projects Edmonton and Calgary will post the weakest economic performance among 13 major Canadian cities this year.
In fact, the province’s two biggest centres will both see gross domestic product contract by 0.4 per cent this year before rebounding in 2020, while the province’s economy is forecast to decline by 0.8 per cent.
Both cities and the entire province are suffering from similar problems: weak investment levels, a downturn in the construction sector and the ongoing impact of oil production quotas that have stifled the economy.
“Alberta will suffer a mild economic contraction in 2019 as the energy sector reacts negatively to mandated production cuts,” the study states.
Next year should be better.
The Calgary economy (as well as the entire province’s) is expected to grow by two per cent as the energy sector stabilizes, while Edmonton’s economy will rally with 2.2 per cent expansion next year, according to the conference board.
Over the next three years, Calgary’s GDP is projected to expand by 2.4 per cent, tops among the largest cities, just slightly ahead of Edmonton.
“You are on the way back up,” said Alan Arcand, associate director of municipal studies at the Conference Board of Canada.
“It is a glass half-full, half-empty story — growing again, but not at the same rate of growth that you have experienced in the past.”
The study doesn’t contain any major surprises, although there are some encouraging indicators.
On the employment front, the city is seeing some improvements, despite recent layoffs at companies such as Husky Energy and Repsol. Calgary’s unemployment rate has fallen to 7.1 per cent this year, where it is expected to remain through 2020 before gradually declining.
The report projects Calgary’s overall employment will increase by 2.8 per cent this year.
Government oil production cuts, implemented to keep Western Canadian crude prices from falling, have dampened economic growth, but curtailment is starting to ease. More oil is also expected to move by train out of the province in the coming months.
Rising energy output “will have the additional benefit of allowing manufacturing and professional, scientific and technical services to keep growing,” the report states.
Another area of economic weakness has been Calgary’s construction sector, which has seen output drop every year since 2015. Local housing starts will decrease this year to 9,500 units, as home inventory levels remain high.
“Energy and construction are the two big sectors really feeling the hit,” added Arcand.
“We will see some very modest growth in the energy sector next year … and we also think construction activity will turn positive.”
The report notes housing demand is expected to modestly increase in 2020, while the arts and entertainment sector, as well as the accommodation and food services industries, will also keep growing.
These factors should help the economy gain some momentum.
Wayne Leong, owner of Melrose Cafe and Bar and several other local restaurants, expects sales will be “flat to down” this year from 2018 levels. He’s hopeful there will be an economic resurgence next year but isn’t planning on it.
“We are budgeting on marginal growth, but we are not going to see anything that is going to be an earth-shattering incline,” he said.
Scott Burns, chairman and CEO of Calgary-based Burnco Rock Products, said in his nearly three-decade career, this has been one of the most challenging years due to difficult market conditions.
“We are feeling some stability for Calgary and some recent optimism and think the worst is now behind us,” Burns said in an email.
However, much of the forecasted rebound in 2020 is built upon a stronger oil and gas sector, which remains uncertain.
According to the Petroleum Services Association of Canada, the number of wells to be drilled in the province is projected to fall by 10 per cent next year.
And the case of Calgary-based petroleum producer Houston Oil & Gas Ltd. being placed into receivership late last month shows some energy companies remain under acute financial pressure.
Capital budgets for next year are now being finalized and most producers are reluctant to crank up spending, given current commodity prices, improving efficiency levels and other market factors.
Last week, Calgary-based Vermilion Energy announced it will cut its overall exploration and development capital spending program next year by $70 million, or 13 per cent, to $450 million.
“We have a real efficient capital budget and this, we think, is the new reality of the industry,” CEO Anthony Marino said in an interview.
“Companies are going to be headed for lower growth rates and the industry, in general, will return more capital to investors.”
Marino noted petroleum producers around the world are spending less and using their free cash flow to bolster balance sheets, increase dividends and buy back shares.
Other producers are also expected to take a cautious approach as spending plans for next year are assembled.
“The 2020 budget will likely be less than 2019,” Seven Generations Energy CEO Marty Proctor said this week.
“The reality is with constraints and curtailments on oil and gas, growing at this time doesn’t make a lot of sense. So trying to get more done for the same or less money is what we’re going to attempt to do.”
The script for next year is still being written and much can change in the coming weeks.
But after a lacklustre 2019 with a mild recession, it appears a return to economic growth is back on the horizon.

        Chris Varcoe is a Calgary Herald columnist.
      

        cvarcoe@postmedia.com
      
