
# Vintage car driver, 80, killed in M23 crash named as millionaire businessman

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:03:57+00:00**

Author: **Louie Smith, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/vintage-car-driver-80-killed-20811223)

A 80-year-old vintage car enthusiast killed in a smash during the London to Brighton rally was a Canadian oil millionaire, it has emerged.
Ron Carey ended up on the M23 in his 35mph 1903 Knox Runabout “Old Porcupine” after taking a wrong turn off Sunday’s official A23 route.
Witnesses said he and wife Billi were thrown into the air “like rag dolls” when they collided with a heavy goods vehicle.
Ron died at the scene while Billi was flown to hospital with serious head injuries.
Her condition was stable today.
Paying tribute, friend Rick Pikulski said: “It’s tragic, gut-wrenching news. I’ve known Ron almost 40 years. He was an avid collector. He would go on these vintage car rallies all the time.”
 
Ron, of Calgary, Alberta, worked his way up in the oil industry and founded J&L Supply in 1973. He had a £3.8million classic car collection and was a contributor to two vintage car museums.
He is thought to have completed the London to Brighton run in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
More than 400 enthusiasts took part in the 60-mile event this year, which only allows cars built before 1905. One local who saw the smash accused organisers of poor signage and a lack of stewards.
Jocelyn Gregory said: “If you are not familiar with the area, it is an easy mistake. When the lorry hit, they flew into the air like rag dolls. It was awful.”
A spokesman for the Veteran Car Run said the car had left the route, adding: “We are doing all we can to support the family and are working with the police.”
Ron’s death comes two years after David Corry, 68, died in the rally when his 1902 Benz was in a four-car crash.
A second man, believed to be the lorry driver, was treated at the scene for minor injuries. No arrests have been made.
