
# Gabri on the importance of Pique as Andorra prepare for Barça B

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:12:00+00:00**

Author: **Albert Rogé**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/barca/gabri-on-the-importance-of-pique-as-andorra-prepare-for-barca-b-7707922)

Andorra coach Gabri says Gerard Pique's closeness to everything that is going on at the club is proving an important factor in their rise up the leagues.
Pique purchased the club last December when they were in the fifth tier of Spanish football, but they now find themselves fighting for promotion to the second division.
They were promoted to the fourth tier last season and then bought Reus place in the league above. They face Barça B this weekend and Gabri says Pique is a driving force behind the club's success.
"It was an ambitious project," the former Barcelona player tells SPORT when asked why he took on the job at Andorra. "I accepted the challenge because of Gerard, because of his ambition, the people behind the project and the people of Andorra.
"But obviously Pique was key. He is key. He's very clear on what he wants and he's confident the club can do it, that's key.
"He follows us from a distance. He's focused on Barça but he likes to know how everything is going. He's close to what's going on and that's important for us as the coaching staff and also for the players.
"We (Alberto Jorquera and I) have known him for a while and we know what he's like, but for the players, the fact that he follows us and shows interest is really beneficial and motivating for them. It's an advantage we have which we have to know how to take advantage of."
Gabri says there are no demands on the club to gain promotion this season, which would see them just one tier below La Liga.
"No, the club aren't demanding promotion," he stressed. "We know how tough it is and it's been hard to plan for this division. We started with a squad that was built for the fourth tier, not the third division.
"We're enjoying the moment but we know what our objective is: to get 42-45 points to be in this division again next season."
