
# Kenya Defense top brass hosts US Special Operations Command Generals

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:19:21+00:00**

Author: **Wambui Waweru**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/kenya-defense-top-brass-hosts-us-special-operations-command-generals/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 2 – A contingent of high ranking American Special Operations Command officers are in Kenya as part of a larger East Africa regional visit.
      

        Gen. Richard Clarke, commander, U.S. Special Operations Command and Brig. Gen. Dagvin Anderson, commander, U.S. Special Operations Command Africa met with senior Kenyan military officials yesterday.
      
ADVERTISEMENT
“The meeting allowed the commanders to assess the situation on the ground in Kenya; it also reinforced the partnership between the US and Kenya, further strengthening the bond,” said U.S. Ambassador to Kenya Kyle McCarter.
“It was valuable to see first-hand how Kenya is critical to our security building efforts throughout the Horn of Africa,” Clarke said. “Our partnership with the international community and the effort to build the Danab, Somalia’s elite fighting force, are progressively enabling security to spread into contested areas.”
While in country, Gen. Clarke said they learned about Kenya’s security challenges, particularly regarding their northern neighbor Somalia’s need for broad political, economic, and military progress. He stressed the importance of international cooperation to bring about peace and stability in the region.
“Kenya is an exporter of stability in Eastern Africa and an invaluable AMISOM ally in the fight against al-Shabaab,” noted U.S. Amb. McCarter.
Post Views: 2
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
