
# Storm clouds hover over western coast. Effects of climate change?

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kumaran P**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/storm-clouds-hover-over-western-coast-effects-of-climate-change/articleshow/71859950.cms)

The weather has gone bonkers, thanks to climate change. While October for Karnataka turned out to be the month which saw the highest rainfall in 48 years, increased cyclonic activity in the Arabian Sea while the north-east monsoon is active has made scientists sit up and take notice. Usually, cyclonic formations are seen more in the Bay of Bengal than in the Arabian Sea -- Cyclone Kyarr is just one example; there are many more to come. Srinivas Reddy, scientist and director of Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Center (KSNDMC), “This time the peculiarity is that there is a change in the cyclonic patterns. The other thing is that there are two cyclones in the Arabian Sea already, which is also peculiar. In northeast monsoon, cyclones are quite common in the Bay of Bengal but this year we are seeing four to five cyclones in the Arabian Sea. We are not saying that usually there aren’t any any formation of cyclonic circulations in the Arabian Sea; (it’s just that) the numbers are much higher than normal. For example, usually, if there are 10 cyclones in the Bay of Bengal, (the corresponding number would be) two to three cyclones in the Arabian Sea. But this time it has changed.” “If you have been seeing the climate change aspects over the year these kinds of changes are happening. From the last two years, the rainfall distribution has changed, rainfall has changed in the last two years. But, what we are seeing these uncommon phenomena these days is because of the aspects of climate change,” he added. Experts said that the pattern can in part be blamed on climate change. A scientist from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Bengaluru said, “This is called a cyclonic period and there is no doubt about it as we have two cyclones together in the Arabian Sea already. But during the northeast monsoon, the cyclones used to form in the Bay of Bengal but this year it has formed over the Comorin area near Sri Lanka and it started moving towards North-West towards the west side. This is the reason why Kerala and Coastal Karnataka were hit by the cyclone.” While the official said that if there are changes in cyclone formation patterns then it is most definitely a result of climate change, other officials were not willing to bet their money on that reason alone. Although they agreed that the pattern had changed owing to several reasons, but they were clueless about the exact reasons.
Usually, if there are 10 cyclones in the Bay of Bengal, there are two to three in the Arabian Sea. But this year, this pattern has changed
— Srinivas Reddy, KSNDMCIMD Bengaluru director Geetha Agnihotri said, “Between May and October is the cyclone season for Indian seas be it Arabian Sea or Bay of Bengal. When we look at the frequency of cyclones, the numbers are more in the Bay of Bengal compared to the Arabian Sea. This time, the frequency has changed and cyclone Kyaar and others are already present in the Arabian Sea. We cannot exactly pinpoint why and what is the reason. In atmospheric sciences, global factors also matter, but yes, this time there is a change in the pattern.” ******* * After a more than 30% shortfall in June, the season ended with 10% excess rainfall -- for the first time since 1931. The September rainfall (152% of long-period average, or LPA) was the highest since 1917; the August rainfall (115% of LPA) was the highest since 1996, and the overall seasonal rainfall (110% of LPA) was the highest since 1994* The rainfall received by the state in October was almost double the normal rainfall (84% above normal), the highest since 1993 when rainfall was 122% above normal.* KSNDMC says rainfall in the October 18-24 period was the highest weekly rainfall for any week of October in 48 years. Karnataka (as of Oct 29) received 241 mm against a normal of 131 mm. This is the highest rainfall in October since 1993.
