
# These are the luckiest areas in Scotland to live in for boosting your lottery win chances

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Emma Bowden**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/never-much-luck-your-lottery-20811786)

The National Lottery has revealed the luckiest postcodes in Scotland as part of its 25th birthday celebrations.
A staggering 5,500 millionaires have been made since the lottery launched in 1994, according to the statistics, and 125 of them are from the Glasgow postcode.
While the city takes the top spot for players banking a seven-figure sum, luck seekers should also look to the Borders.
Galashiels has seen the most big winners by local population.
The statistics by the National Lottery also looked at where players are most likely to win a prize of more than £50,000.
On average one in every 894 players has banked a big prize since the lottery's launch.
 
Lottery luck also lives south of the border, with the West Midlands winning the top spot for players banking a seven-figure sum, with 168 of them from the Birmingham postcode.
While traditionally lucky Romford in Essex and Cleveland in the north-east of England have seen one in 922 and one in 952 respectively.
Data from the last three years suggests Leicester locals have been in luck recently, climbing the top 10 with 30 millionaires made since September 2016.
Andy Carter, senior winners' adviser for the National Lottery, said: "We go to every corner of the country to pay out big prizes and make millionaires.
 
"With on average seven new millionaires made every week, you can be sure we'll be visiting somewhere close to you very soon.
"Over the last 25 years, The National Lottery has been making amazing things happen.
"Thanks to our National Lottery players, 565,000 Good Cause grants have been given out to projects big and small, that's the equivalent of 200 life-changing projects in every UK postcode district making a huge impact on communities all over the country.
"On top of this, we have celebrated so many lucky winners who have won life-changing sums of money - here's to another 25 years of making dreams come true."
