
# What Are Norfolk Southern’s Key Sources of Revenue?

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/06/what-are-norfolk-southerns-key-sources-of-revenue/)

Norfolk Southern (NYSE: NSC) generates its revenue from freight of various commodities, clubbed under three segments: Coal, Intermodal, and Merchandise. We estimate slower revenue growth for Norfolk Southern, when compared to the pace seen over the recent years. This can be attributed to an improved situation in the trucking industry, as well as the impact of the trade tensions, which have impacted the overall exports from the U.S. In this note we discuss Norfolk Southern’s revenue sources, its business model, past revenue growth, and expected trajectory. You can view our interactive dashboard analysis ~ NSC Revenues: How Does Norfolk Southern Make Money? ~ for more details.Norfolk Southern Generates Its Revenue From Freight of Various Commodities, Clubbed Under Three Segments: Merchandise, Intermodal and Coal.

        Norfolk Southern’s Business Model
      

        Norfolk Southern’s Revenue Grew 16% Between 2016 And 2018, And They Could Grow 10% Between 2018-2021.
      

        Norfolk Southern’s Revenue Growth Has Been Primarily Led By Better Pricing, And This Trend Will Likely Continue In The Near Term
      
 
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
