
# West Dunbartonshire mark Scottish Book Week with series of free events

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:11:53+00:00**

Author: **Linzi Watson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/linzi-watson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/west-dunbartonshire-mark-scottish-book-20789488)

West Dunbartonshire Libraries and Cultural Services have organised a line-up of free events to celebrate Book Week Scotland.
The packed schedule includes talks from local author Paul Murdoch, popular crime writer Karen Campbell and acclaimed foreign affairs journalist David Pratt.
During the week – which runs from November 18 to 24 November – book lovers will also have the chance to hear from author Malacy Tallack, and writer Kerry Hudson.
All of the events are free, but booking is advised.
 
Councillor Ian Dickson said: “This year’s events will have an exceptional mix of talented authors and inspirational speakers including the acclaimed journalist, David Pratt who will have a very interesting story to tell through his travels .
“Crime fiction is very popular and I’m sure Karen Campbell’s event on crime fiction will entertain.
“We are absolutely delighted to welcome local author, Paul Murdoch to this year’s line up whose talk promises to be a big hit with the audience.
“It is great that we have attracted such a wealth of talent to share their stories with us during this year’s Book Week Scotland events.”
Councillor Iain McLaren added: “We have a great range of talent lined up for this year's Book Week Scotland with a range of events at libraries across West Dunbartonshire.
“Our staff have done a great job by securing high profile speakers  which will make our programme increasingly popular with our residents. I would encourage residents to book early to avoid disappointment.”
 
Paul Murdoch’s new book, Old Bloke Goes Running, tells the tale of a guy in his fifties who got fit, which he hopes will encourage others to realise that it’s never too late to get healthy.
Crime writer Karen Campbell will discuss her new book The Sound of the Hours, is set during World War Two in Barga – Italy’s most Scottish town.
David Pratt will be discussing his book The Horror and the Allure of War. For more detail on the programme of events and to book your place, visit https://wdlbws2019.eventbrite.co.uk
For more local news from West Dunbartonshire click here .
