
# Who should replace Unai Emery as next Arsenal manager if they wield the axe?

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:58:17+00:00**

Author: **Jacob Murtagh, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jacob-murtagh/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/who-should-replace-unai-emery-20807725)

Arsenal boss Unai Emery continues to mount a brave defence as his position remains very much under scrutiny.
The Gunners left the pitch to jeers after surrendering yet another winning position as Wolves fought back to earn a 1-1 draw at the Emirates Stadium.
Emery is facing a massive month in the battle to save his job.
But pressure continues to mount and they could slip nine points off the pace in the top four race if they lose to Leicester on Saturday.
Who should Gunners chiefs turn to if Emery is given the boot?
Our reporters have their say:
It does feel like Unai Emery maybe Arsenal’s David Moyes. Just like following Fergie, following a legend like Arsene Wenger has been tough for Emery.
And the biggest issue is not the points off top four but whether he’s lost the fans and if you can win them back.
I think Arsenal realise how tough it is and want to give Emery every chance (the last thing they would want is to chop and change managers too easily) but do you act now or wait and risk missing out on top four?
It’s a major gamble and also limits who you could get as a replacement.
If they do replace Emery, then I think they should go back to 2018 and go Brendan Rodgers or Mikel Arteta. Young, bold, ambitious, good coaches and maybe Frank Lampard has shown those ingredients work.
But not sure they’d go mid-season (if at all) if Arsenal do get rid of Emery which, I hasten to add, is by no means certain.
Max Allegri interviewed badly in 2018 and didn’t get the job which he definitely wanted. Mind you, we were told Emery gave a detailed presentation and dossier on every player when he got it... I can’t believe he did that in English and it’s hard through an interpreter.
Jose Mourinho is clearly putting himself out there and wants the job. But I can’t believe fans would be on board with a manager who ridiculed the club in such a nasty, vindictive way in the past.
Patrick Vieira is struggling at Nice.
So what I’m trying to say is there are no obvious replacements and that, in itself, could be another reason why Emery gets more time.
I would love to see a fired up Jose Mourinho at the helm at the Emirates. He would bring some much needed defensive nous and organisation to the club which has plenty of attacking firepower.
Mourinho, 56, will still be fuming about his treatment at Manchester United no doubt .He will have been stung by the axe and determined to prove a point.
He loves living in London and only ever stayed in a hotel in Manchester so the location will not be a problem.
I reckon it would be a an exciting move for him, Arsenal and the Premier League. Bring it on!
Don't go for Mourinho. Just don't do it. Don't. You'll be back in this same situation in a year or two only with everyone hating each other.
At least the appointment of someone like Arteta would bring an added freshness and come with the bonus of him already having a fair bit of goodwill with the supporters.
It was understandable why Arsenal didn't go with the Manchester City assistant first time around when they appointed Emery, but a commitment to him and to some of the club's younger players seems to be what they need now.
As well as knowing some of the key figures in Arsenal backroom team (Arteta played with Per Mertesacker and did his UEFA Pro Licence along with Freddie Ljungberg at the FA of Wales' respected programme) Arteta has learned under Pep Guardiola too.
What more do the Gunners want?
First thing first, it is not the time to sack Unai Emery. He should be given until the end of the season and then it will be time for the board to take stock.
But if he is sacked, how about someone from left field?
Name the manager who has impressed you most over the past couple of years.
For me, it is Gareth Southgate.
Would he walk out on England ahead of Euro 2020? Almost certainly not - he has too much integrity.
But would it be worth a try? Absolutely.
Well, for starters, they shouldn't sack Emery. It was always going to take two or three seasons to sort out Arsenal once a new manager got in.
That's no slight on Arsene Wenger, when any club has been managed one way for two decades or more there will be countless new ways of doing things to implement and Emery needs time for that.
Diego Simeone would be perfect but that's not going to happen. And would you leave Leicester now for Arsenal if you were Brendan Rodgers?
I'm not sure it's such a big step up.
Eddie Howe would be an ideal option but he'd need someone alongside him whose quality is second to none as a defensive coach.
If Arsenal want progressive football to please the fickle Emirates galleries, don't bother shopping abroad in designer-label boutiques.
The best fit is currently just 110 miles up the M1 at Leicester. Brendan Rodgers may have been the sultan of near misses when Liverpool missed out on the title by a whisker in 2014, but he was architect of Celtic's 'Treble Treble' - and just nine months into his reign at the King Power, the Foxes are running amok in the chicken run again.
Former Juventus coach Max Allegri apart, there is a dearth of candidates in Europe who can deliver trophies AND slick, attacking football in the same package.
And like under-pressure Arsenal boss Unai Emery now, Allegri's English is by no means fluent. It would also be a strange move to go for Jose Mourinho after his long-running feud with Gunners royalty Arsene Wenger, so the Gunners' best bet would be to shop at home.
And if they don't move in for Rodgers, they may find he is snapped up by one of the other big guns.
