
# Science Reveals 5 Ugliest And Prettiest Cars From Last 10 Years

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:32:42+00:00**

Author: **Christopher Smith**

Original: [Motor1.com](https://www.motor1.com/news/380852/science-reveals-ugliest-prettiest-cars/?utm_source=RSS&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=RSS-all-)

You may have heard about the Golden Ratio before, though probably not in the automotive realm. Honestly, we're less than impressed by this bit of science right now because we’ve already seen the contents of this slideshow, and frankly, we’re flat-out gobsmacked by this experiment. Before we commit further slander against the scientific community – not to mention the good folks at CarWow who presumably spent considerable time on this study – let us explain what’s happening here.
In short, the Golden Ratio is a long-standing equation that basically attempts to quantify beauty. By applying this scientific equation to geometric shapes, the result is allegedly something the human eye finds most pleasing. We say allegedly because, while interesting, beauty is ultimately a subjective exercise. Still, one might use the equation to determine shapes with broad appeal. On that front, the math checks out.
The CarWow team took the Golden Ratio and applied it to individual shapes on literally hundreds of cars, all to try and determine – from a scientific standpoint – which vehicles are the best and worst looking from the last 10 years. We respect the effort invested into such an endeavor, but we suspect the vast majority of you will agree that, this time around, science is just plain wrong.
The slideshow above features the five ugliest and prettiest cars of recent years as determined by the Golden Ratio, starting with the worst. For the record, you won't find a big-nosed BMW or a suave Ferrari in this collection, which is a bit telling right there. Science can do much better.
Source: Carwow
Science doesn't like Ford, as this isn't the only Blue Oval singled out in the worst category. It's not our first choice for a beauty pageant, but we can conjure uglier choices than this. Some of them even appear later on ... in the best section.
Really science? Really? Not everyone likes Audi's big grille up front, but the swooping lines of the Sportback are far from ugly.
Science clearly doesn't like Audi either. The A1 isn't terrifically exciting, but compared to a first-generation Nissan Juke – which by the way isn't anywhere on this list – it's a Concours classic. 
It's true that many people have a problem with Mercedes-Benz calling this four-door crossover a coupe, but the Golden Ratio only applies to shapes, not letters. Does it really deserve to be the second ugliest vehicle built in the last 10 years?
And here comes the hate. There's lots of love around the world for the plucky Fiesta, and while we'll admit it's not the best looking hot hatch of them all, it has a welcome aggressiveness that overshadows its odd proportions. But if this being the worst-looking car upsets you, wait until you see the vehicles science deems the best looking.
Actually, the Micra's proportions are rather pleasing. Still, it's not exactly a design that gets the blood pumping at a mere glance, and we'd still rather see the Fiesta here.
The study singled out the 2019 Corolla over other years, and as with the Micra, it's well-proportioned and not unattractive. That sort of thing makes a difference in the mathematical world of the Golden Ratio, but would you rather look at this or a new Toyota Supra?
And here's where science goes completely off the rails. Whether you call it a Vauxhall Mokka, Opel Mokka, or a Buick Encore, this bubbly compact crossover with its short wheelbase, stubby overhangs, and tall beltline has no business being among the best-looking anything, never mind vehicles.
Mathematical proportions strike again with this admittedly cute VW. There's plenty of symmetry in the design of the earlier Up!, but science doesn't understand that symmetry is only part of what makes something beautiful. It's not the second-best-looking vehicle of the last 10 years despite the placement on this list, but just wait until you see the disaster to come.
According to the CarWow study, this vehicle scored a 98.83-percent conformity to the Golden Ratio. By the numbers, that means the freaking Smart ForTwo Cabrio is the best-looking car built in the last decade. Not a Dodge Challenger, or an Aston Martin Vantage, Corvette, Giulia, Agera, or any one of hundreds of vehicles that deserve recognition over the roofless Smart. It's not the worst, but it's so far from the best. 
