
# ‘Bullying tactics’: Impeachment witness complained that State Department tried to silence him, former Pompeo adviser says

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:14:19+00:00**

Author: **Joel Gehrke**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/defense-national-security/bullying-tactics-impeachment-witness-complained-that-state-department-tried-to-silence-him-former-pompeo-adviser-says)

A top American diplomat said the State Department tried to silence him before he testified in the impeachment proceedings, a former adviser to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told House investigators last month. The diplomat is George Kent, whose brief includes Ukraine.
“He definitely characterized it as bullying tactics,” Michael McKinley, a former Pompeo adviser, said in a voluntary interview Oct. 16.
Kent described the pressure tactics in private and in an official memo, McKinley testified. “He also mentioned that he thought that the lawyer was trying to shut him up,” McKinley said of his Oct. 3 conversation with Kent. “He wrote it up as a memorandum to the files, and he sent it to me ... I thought it was a serious memorandum.”
McKinley, a career foreign service officer, told lawmakers that he gave the memo to other members of Pompeo’s inner circle who are officials on the “7th floor,” where the secretary of state and his closest advisers work.
“The mere fact that somebody feels strongly enough about what they've heard and what they're sensing about what they're saying to somebody who's working on the impeachment inquiry that they need to write it down and have a record of what was said was significant enough,” McKinley said. “And he definitely characterized it as bullying tactics.”
The State Department and lawmakers have accused one another of bullying prospective witnesses.
Elsewhere in his Oct. 16 testimony, McKinley said he could not address directly the issues that gave rise to the impeachment proceedings, because he did not work on Ukraine. He alleged, however, that the State Department's letter rebuffing congressional inquiries contained “inaccuracies” that pertained to “legal support” for the diplomats.
“'Inaccurate’ is the term I'll use because, again, without looking back at the memo word for word, I do want to be, on a subject like that, as accurate as possible,” McKinley said. “He did question the way it was being presented, absolutely."
Lawmakers released the transcript of McKinley’s testimony on Monday. The transcript of Kent's testimony has not been released.
