
# Best Dell laptop deals

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Martin**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/laptop/best-dell-laptop-deals-3776789/)

Dell has been making some of the best laptops on the market for years, whether the XPS series, Inspiron range or otherwise. Luckily, you needn’t pay full price as we round up the best Dell laptop deals on the web.
Some of the best deals are directly from Dell, with others from retailers. Those looking for a business laptop might be able to get an even lower price when you take away the VAT. 

        Dell XPS 13 (2019)From: AmazonWas: £1,749Now: £1,479  (£270 offf) View Deal
      

        Dell Inspiron 15 5000From: AmazonWas: £899Now: £799.99  (£99.01 off) View Deal
      

        Dell Vostro 5581From: Laptops DirectWas: £708.97Now: £579.97  (£129 off) View Deal
      

        Dell Latitude 3500From: DellWas: £958.28Now: £562.80  (£395.48 off) View Deal
      

        Dell G3 17 3000 (2019)From: AmazonWas: £1,229Now: £1,049.99  (£179.01 off) View Deal
      
Dell Latitude 5501From: DellWas: £2,287.38Now: £1,486.80  (£800.58 off) View Deal< >
When it comes to Dell, there are countless laptops to choose from. Starting with the Inspiron range which starts at just £249 for the 3000 series. You can then jump to the 5000- or 7000- models depending on what you need.
The Dell XPS 13 and XPS 15 are the flagship laptops if you simply want the best you can get.
Those looking for a laptop to play games on can check out the G Gaming series - which comes in G3, G5 and G7 options - and then the top-level Alienware laptops, too.
Dell also has a wide range of business laptops including Vostro, Latitude and Precision.
With a lot to choose from, we’ve rounded up the best Dell laptops from across the internet, providing you with the best discounts or Dell vouchers to save money. If you like, you can check all of Dell's laptop deals here and also make sure to check out top retailers such as Amazon, Currys, Argos, John Lewis and AO.
Keep an eye on all the best Black Friday deals for 2019 as well as Cyber Monday.
Also see our chart of the best laptops of the year for all devices that have aced our reviews. We also have guides on the best Solid State Drives (SSD) and the best USB PD Power Banks for Laptops.

        From: AmazonWas: £1,749Now: £1,479  (£270 offf) View Deal
      
The XPS 13 is one of the best laptops you can buy on the market and you can get a decent discount off the stylish rose gold model at Amazon. It's got high-end specs including a Core i7 processor, 4K screen and 16GB of memory.

        From: AmazonWas: £899Now: £799.99  (£99.01 off) View Deal
      
Save on this excellent full-sized laptop from Dell with an 8th-gen Core i7 processor and Nvidia MX150 graphics card. It's got narrow bezels and the combination of an SSD and larger storage drive.

        From: Laptops DirectWas: £708.97Now: £579.97  (£129 off) View Deal
      
If you need a balanced business laptop then the Vostro 5581 should suit you well. It's affordable but has a Core i5 processor along with a 8GB or RAM and a 256GB SSD.

        From: DellWas: £958.28Now: £562.80  (£395.48 off) View Deal
      
There's a huge discount on this Latitude model which comes with a Core i5 processor, 8GB of RAM and 128GB SSD. It's portable but still has useful legacy ports like HDMI and ethernet. Those getting it for buiness will pay just £469 excluding VAT.

        From: AmazonWas: £1,229Now: £1,049.99  (£179.01 off) View Deal
      
At just over a grand, this Dell gaming laptop gives you a huge 17in screen with anti-glare along with some decent specs like an Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 and Core i7. That's a lot of laptop without breaking the bank.

        From: DellWas: £2,287.38Now: £1,486.80  (£800.58 off) View Deal
      
Dell calls this "the world’s smallest 15” mainstream business-class notebook" and this is a huge saving on a laptop with everything you need. From high-end core specs, to a large range of ports, to a range of biometrics. Businesses might also be able to get it excluding VAT.
