
# What’s going on Sunday?

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **BrooklynVegan Staff**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/whats-going-on-sunday-183/)

You can browse our full NYC show calendar for all of tonight’s shows, but here are some highlights…
Yasiin Bey (fka Mos Def), Camp Lo @ Brooklyn SteelMos Def‘s landmark solo debut, Black on Both Sides, turns 20 in October and still sounds great. He’s celebrating that anniversary tonight with Camp Lo opening. Fingers crossed that some of the album’s features — Q-Tip, Busta Rhymes and his Black Star partner Talib Kweli — show up.
Nick Offerman @ Beacon TheatreWoodworker, actor, comedian and man behind Ron Swanson, Nick Offerman brings the All Rise tour to NYC.
Saves The Day (performing “Through Being Cool”), Hot Rod Circuit @ ElsewhereSaves The Day’s classic, highly influential sophomore album Through Being Cool turned 20 yesterday, and they’re celebrating by performing it in full at four shows, two in the NYC-area and two in the LA-area. (This is night two of two in the NYC-area.) Sweetening the deal is Hot Rod Circuit performing their 2002 classic Sorry About Tomorrow.
David Byrne’s American Utopia @ Hudson TheatreDavid Byrne has retooled his acclaimed “untethered” 2018 for the Broadway stage and while the setlist and arrangements are much like what they were on his tour, songs are now threaded together with new monologues from Byrne, making for a much more theatrical experience.
Todd Barry @ Union Hall (two shows)Veteran comic Todd Barry remains razor-sharp, especially when it comes to interacting with the audience. Tonight he says he’ll be “working on new jokes and improving older jokes.”
Office Culture, Renata Zeiguer, Alana Spanger @ Union PoolBrooklyn band Office Culture, whose influences span from Joni Mitchell to Randy Newman, play this record release show for their new LP A Life of Crime.
John Zorn (New Masada Quartet), Julian Lage, Jorge Roeder, Kenny Wollesen @ Village Vanguard (two shows)John Zorn, with much help from Julian Lage (guitar), Jorge Roeder (bass) and Kenny Wollesen (drums), aims to “put Ornette Coleman and the Jewish scales together” as the New Masada Quartet.
Knocked Loose, Stick To Your Guns, Rotting Out, Candy, SeeYouSpaceCowboy @ Webster HallThis five-band bill is like the metallic hardcore show of the year. Knocked Loose and SeeYouSpaceCowboy are each responsible for one of the genre’s very best albums, Candy just signed to Relapse and put out a ripper of a new single, Rotting Out put out their first new music in four years this year, and Stick To Your Guns don’t really have anything new (members have been busy with side projects) but they’re sure to bring it too.
Mike Doughty (plays Soul Coughing’s “Ruby Vroom”) @ WFMU Monty HallMike Doughty will perform his old band Soul Coughing’s classic 1994 debut, that mixed jazz, hip hop and indie rock, in full.
The Original Robert Glasper Experiment @ Blue Note Jazz Club (two shows)Robert Glasper concludes his month-long Blue Note Jazz Club residency, which will find him playing with The Original Robert Glasper Experiment (Glasper, Derrick Hodge, Chris Dave, Casey Benjamin) through November 3. Glasper has already had a bunch of cool surprise guests join him at this residency… will anyone show up for the final night?
Greet Death, Dares, Vaureen, Scout Gillett @ BerlinGreet Death pull from punk, shoegaze, post-rock, slowcore, and more, and they’ve got an anticipated sophomore LP coming out on Deathwish soon.
For all of tonight’s shows, and tomorrow’s, check out our NYC concert calendar.
For laughs, check out the NYC Comedy calendar too.
————-—
Follow @BrooklynVegan on Twitter.Follow @bvChicago for just Chicago stuff.Also follow @bvAustin for just Austin stuff.
Be our friend on Facebook too, and BV Austin’s friend on Facebook and BV Chicago’s friend on Facebook.
Follow BrooklynVegan on instagram.
What else?
——————-
Browse our ‘Tickets On Sale‘ tag for more recently announced NYC shows.
Browse our NYC Concert Calendar for shows happening today and every day – comedy shows, heavy metal concerts (courtesy of our heavy metal blog), and free shows included.
