
# Earnings Preview: What To Expect From Square On Wednesday

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Sarhan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adamsarhan/2019/11/03/earnings-preview-what-to-expect-from-square-on-wednesday/)

Square Inc. is scheduled to release earnings after Wednesday’s close. Last year, the stock hit a record high of $101.15/share and is currently trading near $62/share. The stock is prone to big moves after reporting earnings and can easily gap up if the numbers are strong. Conversely, if the numbers disappoint, the stock can easily gap down. To help you prepare, here is what the Street is expecting:Earnings Preview:
Square is expected to report earnings of $0.20/share on $1.19 billion in revenue. Meanwhile, the so-called Whisper number is $0.23. The Whisper number is the Street's unofficial view on earnings.
Company Profile & Various Businesses:
Here is a brief company profile:
Square, Inc. provides payment and point-of-sale solutions in the United States and internationally. The company's commerce ecosystem includes point-of-sale software and hardware that offers sellers to payment and point-of-sale solutions. It provides hardware products, including Magstripe reader, which enables swiped transactions of magnetic stripe cards; Contactless and chip reader that accepts Europay, MasterCard, and Visa (EMV) chip cards and Near Field Communication payments; Square Stand, which enables an iPad to be used as a payment terminal or full point of sale solution; Square Register that combines its hardware, point-of-sale software, and payments technology; Square Terminal, a portable payments device that replaces keypad terminals, which accepts various payment types, such as tap, dip, and swipe, as well as prints receipts; and managed payments solutions. The company also offers various software products, including Square Point of Sale, Square Appointments, Square for Retail, Square for Restaurants, Square Invoices, Virtual Terminal, Weebly, Square Dashboard, Square Loyalty and Marketing, and Square Payroll. In addition, it provides Cash App, which enables individuals to electronically send, store, and spend money; Caviar, a food ordering platform for restaurants to offer food ordering, pickup, delivery, and catering to their customers; and Square Capital that facilitates loans to sellers based on current payment and point-of-sale data. Square, Inc. was founded in 2009 and is headquartered in San Francisco, California.
Pay Attention To How The Stock Reacts To The News:
From where I sit, the most important trait I look for during earnings season is how the market and a specific company reacts to the news. Remember, always keep your losses small and never argue with the tape.
