
# Tavistock Minor Injuries Unit to stay closed until 2020

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:14:45+00:00**

Author: **Jak Ball**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/tavistock-minor-injuries-unit-stay-3492848)

Tavistock Minor Injuries Unit is set to be closed for another two months, which will put further pressure onto other services over the Christmas period.
The unit closed temporarily in August due to staffing shortages that the Trust could not overcome.
It was hoped that it would reopen on Tuesday, November 5 but now that will not happen until the new year.
Caroline Dawe, Care Group Manager for Medicine at University Hospitals Plymouth NHS Trust and Jo Turl, Director of Commissioning at Devon Clinical Commissioning Group, said back in August: “The Trust has informed Devon CCG of their request to temporarily close Tavistock Minor Injuries Unit for three months, due to staffing shortages that cannot be overcome in the short term.
“Following a period of operating at reduced hours, it has become harder to keep the unit open due to the small team being affected by unplanned absence.
“The decision for a temporary closure is on the basis of an assessment of patient safety due to staffing levels and has been carefully considered.”
An update has now been provided by the Trust, which reads: “Since August, as a Trust we have recruited and are currently training four additional members of staff.
“In order to run the Minor Injuries Service across the Cumberland Centre, Tavistock and Kingsbridge, we need to recruit and train at least a further four senior practitioners.
“This will ensure we have sufficient staff to cover the service and that all staff are trained and supported to the right level.
“As senior practitioners, and sometimes sole providers of the Minor Injuries service in venues such as Tavistock, we have to ensure they have the right training, experience and support to practice.
“We are confident the steps we are taking now will give us a strong and resilient staffing structure for the future minor injuries service, which is much valued by the public and ourselves.”
The unit sees an average of around 23 patients a day but currently people are being advised to use the Cumberland Centre in Plymouth, or other Minor Injury Units in Liskeard, Launceston and Okehampton.
