
# NASA astronaut captures shocking photo of California wildfires from the ISS

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:23:11+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/science/nasa-astronaut-captures-shocking-photo-20807271)

Over the past two weeks wildfires have broken out across southern California, forcing thousands of people to flee their homes.
The wildfires were sparked by extreme weather conditions, and have destroyed nearly 100,000 acres in a matter of weeks.
Now, a NASA astronaut on board the International Space Station (ISS) has revealed that the wildfires are so vast that they can actually be seen from space.
Andrew Morgan, who is on the ISS for a nine-month mission, snapped a photo of the fires in the Bay Area.
He posted the photo to his Facebook page, writing: “From the International Space Station I was able to catch these pictures of the California wildfires burning north of the Bay Area.
 
“Thinking of the people who have lost their homes and the brave first responders on the front lines protecting them.”
NASA’s satellites are often the first to detect wildfires in remote regions.
NASA explained: “Together, NASA instruments detect actively burning fires, track the transport of smoke from fires, provide information for fire management, and map the extent of changes to ecosystems, based on the extent and severity of burn scars.”
The photos of the wildfires from space come shortly after Donald Trump threatened to cut federal funding for the wildfires.
Mr Trump blamed California’s Governor Gavin Newsom for the wildfires, claiming that he had done a "terrible job of forest management".
He tweeted: “Every year, as the fire's (sic) rage & California burns, it is the same thing - and then he comes to the Federal Government for $$$ help. No more. Get your act together Governor.”
However, Mr Newsom replied: “You don't believe in climate change. You are excused from this conversation."
