
# BJP leader idiotically blames Pakistan, China for New Delhi's air pollution

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:48:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/517487-BJP-leader-idiotically-blames-Pakistan-China-for-New-Delhi-air-pollut)

NEW DELHI (Dunya News) – Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vineet Agarwal Sharda on Tuesday spoke absolute nonsense that the record-breaking air pollution in New Delhi and its adjacent regions could be the result of a poisonous gas released by Pakistan and China.
With a completely straight face, the mischievous Indian politician further insisted that his theory should be “seriously” considered.
"Ye jo zehreeli hawa aa rahi hai, zehreeli gas aayi hai ho sakta hai kisi bagal ke mulk ne chhodi ho jo humse ghabraya hua hai. (There is a possibility that this poisonous gas could have been released by any neighbouring country which is afraid of us.) I feel that Pakistan or China are afraid of us," Sharda told a local television channel.
"We must seriously consider whether Pakistan has released any poisonous gas," he added.
The BJP leader also criticised Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for blaming stubble burning in Haryana and Punjab for the alarming pollution levels in the national capital region.
"People including Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal say pollution is caused by stubble burning or industrial emission.”
“The farmer is the backbone of our country. Farmers and industries should not be blamed,” the BJP leader said.
Indian officials have been finding excuses for Delhi’s hazardous level of air pollution.
"This is a time of Krishna and Arjuna (from Mahabharata). PM Modi as Krishna and Amit Shah as Arjuna together will take care of it," he said.
Earlier, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan suggested that eating vitamin-rich carrots could help shield Indians from pollution-related illnesses.
One Twitter user wrote: “I didn’t understand how can a this political leader so stupid. They are like " mai bolega ,mereko Jo bolna hai bolega or Mai famous ho jayega."
Another user stated: “Another gas bag from BJP. How can we expect a party with such thinking to find a solution to pollution. #PollutedMinds”A third wondered if that was the reason comedy group AIB closed down.
Another twitterati asked Modi to rein in his men and said: “Dear @narendramodi ji, you immediately need good people from science to train your ministers. One of your ministers is saying that Indian cow milk has gold, other is saying that Pakistan and China are releasing poisonous gases. This won’t work sir.”
His comments come after BJP Bengal MP Dilip Ghosh claimed desi cows could ‘produce gold’.
He had said: “The country’s own breed of cows have a special characteristic. There is gold mixed in its milk and that is why the colour of their milk is golden.
There is a ‘nari’ (blood vessel) that helps produce gold with the help of sunlight. So, we have to keep those (local) cows. If we drink ‘desi’ cow milk, we will become healthy and can prevent diseases," he said at a ‘Gopa Ashtami’ programme in Burdwan.
