
# Pressure mounts on Pellegrini as West Ham wilt at home to Newcastle

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:35:00+00:00**

Author: **By Press Association**

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/sport/pressure-mounts-on-pellegrini-as-west-ham-wilt-at-home-to-newcastle-961425.html)

Newcastle roared into a three-goal lead and then held off a late comeback to beat West Ham 3-2 at the London Stadium.
Goals from Ciaran Clark, Federico Fernandez and Jonjo Shelvey fired the Magpies to their second away victory of the season and hauled them away from the drop zone.
They were assisted by a comically inept display from Manuel Pellegrini’s expensively-assembled side, who were booed off at half-time and by those fans who had bothered to stay until the end.
Late goals from Fabian Balbuena and Robert Snodgrass gave the scoreline a flattering look that West Ham did not deserve.
Before this Newcastle had not scored more than one goal in a match this season. Fernandez had never scored a goal for the Magpies. Yet West Ham simply laid out the welcome mat.
Newcastle were always going to sit deep and hit the hosts on the break, but it seems nobody told West Ham.

        Sheffield United break into top six with Burnley win
      
At 34 Pablo Zabaleta was chosen at right-back to marshal livewire winger Allan Saint-Maximin, who gave him a predictably torrid afternoon.
The only surprise was that the Argentinian emerged for the second half, but he was far from the sole culprit.
Pellegrini admitted before the match that the team were missing the presence of their first-choice goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski. They certainly missed him when Shelvey’s free-kick slipped past the painfully slow dive of stand-in Roberto.
