
# Alfa Romeo GTV, 8C and large crossover cancelled

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:48:48+00:00**

Author: **Derek Fung**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805137/alfa-romeo-gtv-8c-large-crossover-cancelled/)

- shares
In an earnings call held just hours after FCA and the PSA Group confirmed their intention to merge, the Italian-American automaker announced it was scaling back model plans for the Alfa Romeo brand.
According to the company's last five-year plan, announced in June 2018, the marque's range would be bolstered by the addition of two crossovers, with one positioned below the Stelvio and one above based on an enlarged version of the Stelvio's platform.
There would also be two new sports cars: the GTV based on the same rear-wheel drive platform as the Giulia, and a range-topping second-generation 8C.
In addition to this there was meant to be facelifts for the Stelvio crossover, Giulia sedan and Giulietta hatch, as well as long wheelbase versions of the Stelvio and Giulia for the Chinese market.
From a slide accompanying last week's presentation, we can see the new GTV, 8C, Giulietta facelift, large crossover, and the two long wheelbase variants have all be axed.
According to FCA CEO Mike Manley, the company's plans for Alfa Romeo have been "significantly scaled back". This will reduce the automaker's expenditure, as well as cutting back on Alfa's global reach and overlap with other FCA brands.
Surviving the cull are the Jeep Renegade-based Tonale, which was leaked a few weeks ago, and the refreshed Giulia and Stelvio — details of which were leaked late last week.
To make up for some of the culled vehicles will be a completely new model: a B-segment crossover slotting in beneath the Tonale, and due around 2022.
It's unclear how FCA's proposed merger with the PSA Group will affect the Italian-American automakers longer term product plans.
Given Carlos Tavares, head of PSA and proposed captain of the combined company, shelved the almost complete Opel Corsa developed under GM stewardship in favour of a new version based on the Peugeot 208's platform, it's likely PSA's more modern architectures will play a large part in the future of most of FCA's brands.
12
nextpreviousAlfa Romeo GTV, 8C and large crossover cancelled
