
# Marvel Screenwriters Describe Their “Secret Ingredients” for Avengers: Endgame

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:00:50+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/470972-screenwriters-describe-their-secret-ingredients-for-avengers-endgame)

It seems that Marvel Studios has found the recipe for success with Avengers: Endgame. And it’s hard not to believe they have since Endgame became the highest-grossing movie in history soon after hitting the theaters. Speaking at The Contenders Los Angeles (via Deadline), Endgame screenwriters Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely opened up about the “secret ingredients” of this success after crediting Marvel Studios CEO Kevin Feige.
“You can think of genre as an amplifier for a small human story,” Markus said. “We want to tell these little stories about people. You can tell a tiny story about a dad and a daughter, and it has a certain amount of mileage. The dad puts on an iron suit and the range of not only eyes and ears you can reach goes up exponentially, but the stresses you can put those stories under.”
Per McFeely, the second element of Endgame‘s success was not having to deal with superheroes’ secret identities. Back in 2008’s Iron Man, Tony Stark revealed his secret identity right at the very end of the movie. After that, MCU films could devote the part of the movie in which the protagonists usually protected their secret identity to other stories.
Last but not least, McFeely credited also the creative genius of Stan Lee, the godfather of all the Marvel comics who invented all these stories and characters.
“We often think that the character’s flaw is their strength,” McFeely said. “[Captain America‘s] Steve Rogers, for example — he’s the guy that can do this all day. He is absolutely fixed in his opinion. He’s Gary Cooper in many ways, but that gets him in trouble. He won’t bend. He will sacrifice himself.”
Do you agree with the ingredients at the basis of Endgame‘s success? Or would you have credited something else? Let us know in the comments section below.
