
# Joe Marler's wife Daisy is the rock who ensured he played for England at Rugby World Cup

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:13:00+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/joe-marlers-wife-daisy-rock-20749634)

Joe Marler almost missed out on his chance to play in the Rugby World Cup Final.
Just twelves months ago, Marler announced that he would be walking away from England duty in order to spend some more time with his family.
Marler is happily married to long-term partner Daisy, with whom he has three children. Jasper, 5, and Maggie, 3, were joined by another new born just before the World Cup commenced.
The Harlequins star has admitted that he is not overly comfortable with playing top level sport.
But the support of Daisy, who works as a full-time mum, allows him to stay on top of his game.
“My wife, Daisy, is very good at helping me balance the two [rugby and fatherhood]," Marler told FQ Magazine in 2017. 
“Sometimes the team has double-days and I need to get an early night, a decent shut eye.
“So she’ll do the night shift with the kids.”
Daisy keeps her personal life private and avoids the media spotlight.
It is unknown whether they will be flying over to Japan for the Rugby World Cup Final on Saturday.
Marler himself only made a late decision to play in the competition, after appearing to retire from international rugby 12 months ago.
"I don’t feel I can give 100 per cent to the England shirt any more," he said in September 2018.
"That is not fair on myself, the team or my family. I can’t do it anymore.
"It is not an easy decision. It is something I have been thinking about for some time now.
"Being with England you have to spend an incredible amount of time away and I could not do that anymore.
"So now is the time to walk away and get some new blood in the team. And I am looking forward to being able to give my wife and children more of my time."
But with the support of Daisy, Marler reversed his decision and has since played an important role with the England team.
And it is one decision he will surely not regret if he goes on to become part of the world champion line-up come Saturday night.

        Buy the official programme for the Rugby World Cup final for just £10 at reachsportshop.com
      
