
# Malaika Arora opens up her dream wedding plan with beau Arjun Kapoor

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:17:38+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/malaika-arora-opens-up-her-dream-wedding-plan-with-beau-arjun-kapoor/articleshow/71917276.cms)

It's been quite a while that the alleged wedding reports of Malaika Arora and Arjun Kapoor are doing the rounds in the tinsel town. Although time and again the couple has denied about the same still the news was abuzz.
Recently, while talking on Neha Dhupia’s chat show, Malaika finally opened up about her dream wedding with Arjun. The diva said that her dream wedding would be at the beach and would be a white wedding ceremony and she imagines herself in an Elie Saab gown. Malaika also revealed that her girl gang would be her bridesmaids and her closest friend, Vahbiz Mehta would be the best woman.
Talking about Arjun's photography skills, Malla averred that he thinks I do a crappy job of taking his pictures. He clicks better pictures of her, so the pictures she takes, fail in comparison.
Meanwhile, the duo often is seen getting involved in sweet social media PDA. Recently, when Arjun revealed his look in 'Panipat', the fashionista couldn’t hold on to her excitement and commented, “ufff Awesome.”
Meanwhile, Arjun and Malaika made their relationship official on Arjun B'day. Their first public appearance together was at the premiere of 'India's Most Wanted'. Also, they are often papped together hanging out with friends in the city.
