
# Rosalía – “A Palé” Video

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:14:40+00:00**

Author: **Tom Breihan**

Original: [Stereogum](https://www.stereogum.com/2064290/rosalia-a-pale-video/video/)

Anytime Rosalía comes out with a new single, that’s good news. It’s good news because the Barcelona flameco-pop star is good at making music, obviously. And it’s also good news because she’s one of the greatest music-video artists to come along in recent memory; her epochal “Malamente” clip is literally one of the best videos of the decade. Today, we get a new Rosalía song, and a new Rosalía video, both of which are reasons to celebrate.
Thus far in 2019, Rosalía has been moving away from the mutant pop of her amazing 2018 album A Mal Querer. She’s been working toward a more centrist sound and teaming up with big urbano stars — J Balvin on “Con Altura,” Ozuna on “Yo x Ti, Tu x Mi.” But on the new track “A Palé,” Rosalía gets weird again, snarling hard over a head-spinning, rippling beat. Rosalía co-produced the song with pop insider Frank Dukes and regular collaborator El Guincho, and it bangs.
The video, directed by Jora Frantzis, finds Rosalía rocking gold fronts, enormous nails, and a Frida Kahlo unibrow. She and a troupe of surgical-scrubbed backup dancers take over a shipyard and look extremely tough. As a press release points out, Rosalía grew up in a town outside Barcelona that was dominated by the trucking industry, and the single’s title refers to shipping pallets. Check out the video below.
