
# Katsande Reveals Conversation With Chiefs Match-Winner

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:35:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/katsande-reveals-conversation-with-zuma-before-chippa-clash/666902)

Kaizer Chiefs midfielder Willard Katsande has revealed the conversation he had with two-goal hero Dumisani Zuma before Wednesday's clash.

        Read: Chiefs Move Seven Points Clear Of Sundowns
      
Chiefs moved seven points clear at the top of the Absa Premiership standings with a 2-0 victory away to Chippa United.
With Khama Billiat and Lebogang Manyama rested, Zuma stepped up and bagged a brace for the Soweto giants.
"We knew that it was going to be difficult, provided we had eight changes in the team. But we tried to find the balance, thank God the gamble worked and we managed to get the maximum points, of which is what we wanted. It's not about playing good but it's about grinding the results," Katsande told SuperSport after the match.
"The boys showed character and everybody deserves this. We prepare the team during pre-season and I always say to the guys, as somebody who has walked this path, everybody is important to the team, the fixture are gonna come tight, just work hard and wait for your chance," he went on.
"Unlike to sit down and sulk by the time the chance comes you don't perform so I think the guys listened to me very well. You couldn't see that there's no [Khama] Billiat, there's no [Lebogang] Manyama, there's no [Erick] Mathoho, job well done to the team!
"I told him [Dumisani Zuma] before kick-off that, "We don't have Khama, we don't have Manyama, all the pressure is on you, you need to make us play, you're gonna be our match winner", I'm sure if you can ask him he'll tell you the same thing. You could see he stepped up in the big shoes and he delivered."

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
