
# Hooded Night Raider sets up Scots 'superhero' group to help victims of crime

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/mysterious-superhero-aims-give-nervous-20803400)

Night Raider is ­determined to “give victims of ­unreported crime a voice” and help them “speak up” about past trauma.
The incognito volunteer, hidden in a hooded cloak, mask and goggles, is launching Scotland’s first branch of The Astrals – a group founded in Savannah, Georgia, in the US.
Night Raider, whose identity cannot be revealed, said: “The Astrals is a group of volunteers dressed in ­original ­superhero costumes, who aim to help victims of ­unreported crime.
“They can ­accompany those reporting a crime, stand by them during police ­investigations or pass information on if they’re are too scared to do it themselves.
“Every day, crime goes unreported and people are left in the dark. It’s important to put this to a stop.”
Night Raider, ­originally from East Kilbride, came across The Astrals online.
He added: “Now Savannah recognises the group and projects its logo on to buildings to raise ­awareness.
The costumes are a bit different but, in America, people have responded to it. It keeps The Astrals anonymous, makes the brand and it’s superhero imagery people respond too.”
With a fellow ­Edinburgh-based ­volunteer, Night Raider is now urging Scots in need to come forward.
He said: “I’ve been in contact with Victim Support and the police. This is an extra way for people nervous about speaking out to report crime.”
A spokesman for The Astrals in Savannah said: “We were excited about the possibility of having a branch of our team in a whole other country.”
