
# Why Barclays’ Focus On Its Investment Banking Operations Looks Like The Right Way Forward

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/04/why-barclays-focus-on-its-investment-banking-operations-looks-like-the-right-way-forward/)

Barclays (NYSE: BCS) delivered a better-than-expected performance in Q3 2019 earnings, with the British banking giant’s Investment Banking revenues surging 17% year-over-year to £2.6 billion thanks to upbeat FICC trading revenues. While the global investment banking industry struggled over the quarter due to reduced client activity, Barclays’ reported a strong performance in rates trading and securitized products – reinforcing the strength of its business model. Trefis highlights the importance of the Investment Banking Division for Barclays in an interactive dashboard, parts of which are summarized below. You can modify any of our key drivers to gauge the impact changes would have on Barclays’ valuation.Why Is Investment Banking Division So Important To Barclays?

        #1 Investment Banking Division Makes Up One-Third Of Barclays’ Total Revenues
      

        #2 Barclays’ Investment Banking Revenues Have Fared Better Than Revenues For Other Divisions
      

        #3 The Division Has Been Operating At A Much Higher Margin
      

        #4 Moreover, Barclays’ Investment Banking division is much more profitable than that for its European peers, and also contributes more to the bank’s top line
      
Additional details about how revenues and margins for the Investment Banking Division of Barclays, UBS and Deutsche Bank have trended over recent years is available in our interactive dashboard.
 
We expect Barclays’ EPS for full-year 2019 to be around £0.65 (with each U.S. ADR for the company representing 4 common shares). Using this figure with our estimated forward P/E ratio of 11.6x and a GBP-USD exchange rate of 1.3, this works out to a price estimate of $10 for Barclays’ stock.
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
