
# Hong Kong braces for mass rally over weekend after Halloween clashes

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:06:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asia/hong-kong-protests-braces-mass-rally-weekend-halloween-clashes-12053892)

HONG KONG: Hong Kong protesters planned flash mob demonstrations in shopping malls on Friday (Nov 1) after a night of clashes in famed party zone Lan Kwai Fong as prominent activist Joshua Wong called for 100,000 people to take to the streets on Saturday.
Black-clad protesters, wearing now banned face masks, mingled with fancy-dress Halloween revellers in the narrow, sloping streets of Lan Kwai Fong on Thursday, the first time the district had been targeted.
Police fired tear gas to break up the crowds down the hill in the Central business district and were heckled by revellers complaining they were ruining the party spirit.
Since June, protesters have taken to the streets of Hong Kong in sometimes violent demonstrations in response to perceived Chinese meddling with the city's promised freedoms.
Wong was disqualified on Tuesday from standing in upcoming district elections, a move he said was "clearly politically driven".
"We just let the international community realise how the election in Hong Kong is manipulated by Beijing," Wong told reporters on Friday.
"If more and more people, not only a few thousand but if more than 100,000 Hong Kongers take to the streets tomorrow, it can let the world know how Hong Kong people fight for a free election."
The bespectacled Wong was a prominent leader of the student-led protests of 2014 that brought parts of the city to a halt for 79 days, but he has not been in the forefront of the current unrest.
Protesters are seeking universal suffrage for Hong Kong, whose chief executive is chosen by 1,200 largely establishment figures from a list of Beijing-approved candidates. China will "perfect" the way the leader is appointed and replaced, a senior Chinese official said on Friday, without giving details.
