
# Stettler County Housing Authority lands the ‘Learning in the Workplace’ award

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Weber**

Original: [The Stettler Independent](https://www.stettlerindependent.com/news/stettler-county-housing-authority-lands-the-learning-in-the-workplace-award/)

Recognized for ‘continuing to provide training and upgrading opportunities to their staff’, the County of Stettler Housing Authority has landed this year’s ‘Learning in the Workplace’ Award.
“It’s something to be very, very proud of,” said James Nibourg, board chair, of the recognition. “The board wanted this to be the culture, and the staff and the management took it and have run with it. They’ve done a great job, I think.
“Our people who are in those positions have really enjoyed it and it’s a great opportunity.”
The Authority is being honoured for promoting and encouraging the pursuit of education for their staff not only locally but outside the community as well.
According to the web site, “The County of Stettler Housing Authority, in cooperation with eight other municipalities including the Town and County of Stettler, operates three lodges in Stettler as well as Seniors Self-Contained, Affordable Housing, Community Housing and rent support programs.
“The lodges Heart Haven, Paragon Place and Willow Creek have a total of 193 units for independent seniors. We do the cooking, cleaning, yard and building maintenance along with the security of 24-hour staffing.”
The site goes on to explain that, “In the social housing area we operate the Big Valley Villas – seniors’ self-contained, and in Stettler have 14 low-income housing units. We have affordable housing in Donalda, Big Valley and in Stettler we have Rosedale Apartments, four duplexes as well as three condo units at Parkland Place. In addition to this we provide rent supplements to seven landlords and direct rent supplements to over 50 families.”
The board has been very keen on making sure that CAO Betty Tschritter continues with her own professional development, which in turn translates to everything that is done throughout the Authority.
“I think it has paid dividends so far,” said Nibourg.
“We’ve worked really hard with our union, and we’ve worked hard with what is our provincial body ASCHA (Alberta Seniors Community & Housing Association). We’ve also worked really hard to make sure it’s part of the culture with what we are doing.”
The Authority has also worked with Red Deer College to develop a Kitchen Managers Certificate as well, which just started up this fall. Other learning opportunities are available for employees to update their current skills or tackle new ones, too.
“You’re never too old to learn something, and you should never, ever stop learning. It’s hugely important for sure.”
