
# Appointment of construction firm Graham marks start of journey to Belfast Transport Hub

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gary McDonald Business Editor**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/business/2019/11/07/news/appointment-of-construction-firm-graham-marks-start-of-journey-to-belfast-transport-hub-1758449/)

ONE of the north's most significant infrastructural projects in decades, the £200 million Belfast Transport Hub, has moved a step closer with contractors being formally appointed for early-stage engineering works.
Graham Civil Engineering in Hillsborough secured the contract following a tender process, and will be on site from next month to deliver essential engineering works to prepare the site for construction.
But construction on main building aspect of the hub, which is subject to a separate procurement exercise, isn't due to start until 2021, and it will be at least another three years before the scheme is complete.
Translink said the development of the hub, which integrates the Europa bus centre and Great Victoria Street railway station, could create up to 400 jobs over the next five years.
The flagship regeneration scheme will see the transformation of an eight-hectare city centre site, delivering a modern high quality integrated transport hub to enhance local and international connectivity.
“This marks an important milestone as we continue to move towards the start of construction,'' Translink's chief executive Chris Conway said.
“Site preparation works will take around 18 months to complete and will include site clearance, utility diversions, ecology surveys, ground remediation and watercourse and drainage activities, which will ensure the site is ready for the main build phase in 2021.''
Graham, which previously completed schemes at Adelaide depot and on the new Portrush train station for Translink, has a proven track record in the successful delivery of transformational civil engineering projects similar to the Belfast Transport Hub.
It employs 2,200 staff, more than half in Northern Ireland, and as well as posting revenues of £735m last year, also has a £1.2 billion pipeline of future work.
The building firm's managing director Leo Martin said: “Unfortunately there's been, for various political reasons, a lack of work in civil engineering projects here, and this provides much-needed jobs for ourselves and our supply chain.
“Hopefully, when the political uncertainty moves on, we can get more road and rail infrastructure projects throughout Northern Ireland.”
Business groups have welcomed latest development, with Retail NI chief executive Glyn Roberts describing it as “a genuine good news story for our economy”.
He added: “From a retail perspective it will improve the city centre's connectivity for shoppers and tourists and reduce congestion, and it will also act as a much needed catalyst for regeneration in that part of the city.”
