
# For Some Of The Best Chocolate In Italy, Head To Sicily

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Catherine Sabino**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/catherinesabino/2019/11/03/for-some-of-the-best-chocolate-in-italy-head-to-sicily/)

With perfectionist rigor and a devotion to painstaking artisanal tradition, Italians turn out some of the world’s most coveted edibles. While northern neighbors Switzerland and Belgium may be better known for their overall chocolate output, Italy is a stellar producer too, with places like Torino, Perugia, and the chocolate valley in Tuscany among the places creating memorable sweets. But to sample one of the most unusual and historic types of Italian chocolate–at its source–you need to travel to the exquisite Baroque city of Modica in southern Sicily.
Here you’ll find chocolate created with ancient techniques, dating from the time of the Aztecs, and brought to the area in the 1500s when Spain dominated the island. The chocolate is crafted the very old-fashioned way, with beans crushed by hand on a metate, a slab of stone once used to create xocoàtl, a forerunner of the Modica version, in Central America. But it’s not only the handcrafting that makes the product unique. There’s no conching step, typically used in chocolate preparation, and the metate-worked paste is heated only to 40 degrees centigrade, so the added sugar retains its granular form, giving the resulting bars a crunchy consistency. The chocolate is frequently flavored with cinnamon and vanilla, and with local products like pistachios and citrus zest.
Modica goes all out for its famous creation when it stages ChocoModica, a multi-day celebration taking place this year December 5-8. The 2018 fete included tastings, cooking demonstrations, workshops, conferences, a craft fair and even a parade through Modica’s historic center, along with a concert–plus plenty of hot chocolate to help kick-start the holiday season. But If you can’t make it to Modica when the festival is in full swing, you won’t have any trouble going on a chocolate spree during a visit at other times of the year. While there are many shops offering the city specialty, the Antica Dolceria Bonajuto is one you shouldn’t miss. Considered the oldest factory of its kind in Sicily, this landmark is headed by Pierpaolo Ruta, the sixth generation of his family to do so. (Franco Ruta, his late father, is credited with making Modica chocolate the internationally-known heritage item it is today.) At the shop there’s a tasting section where you can sample the varieties—with classic flavorings like vanilla and cinnamon, along with other options including marjoram, ginger or salt. If you’re intrigued by this ancient method of making chocolate, take a behind-the-scenes tour and visit the company’s new bean-to-bar laboratory. (Reservations need to be made three days in advance.) You may find it hard to leave this store—in addition to all the chocolates, it makes unique Sicilian sweets like aranciata nougat and mpanatigghi, crescent-shaped pastries stuffed with an almond, meat and chocolate mixture, another local treat with origins in the town’s Spanish past.
Sampling incredible sweets isn’t the only thing to do in Modica, one of the outstanding late Baroque Val di Noto cities listed as Unesco World Heritage sites. Walk through Modica’s evocative streets, taking in such architectural masterpieces as the Cathedral of San Giorgio. A visit after a bout of chocoholism will give you the chance to “redeem yourself from the sin of gluttony,” suggests Sicily’s official tourist website. You’ll be able to burn some calories, too, as there are many steps to climb to get to it. Redeemed or not, chocolate lovers who may be thinking of a trip in summer should note that Modica also lies near the sea—Marina di Modica is about 22 kilometers away.
