
# N.Y. Election: Voters Approve All 5 Ballot Measures

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:35:33+00:00**

Author: **Vivian Wang**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/05/nyregion/ny-nj-election-results.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

New Yorkers will soon have a new way to vote for their elected officials, and Airbnb must grapple with the latest in a string of regulatory defeats after voters in Jersey City, N.J., approved sharp restrictions on short-term rentals there.
The ballot proposals, which attracted millions of dollars in spending from supporters and opponents, were among the most hotly debated of several referendums before New York area voters on Tuesday, in what was an otherwise sleepy off-year election. There were no statewide races in New York and just a handful of noteworthy local ones, though all of the seats in New Jersey’s General Assembly were contested.
Still, despite the lack of household names, some of the lower-profile races may offer insight about the coming presidential-year showdowns. As progressives prepare to take on more mainstream incumbents in the 2020 primary elections, and as President Trump’s base girds for battle, this year’s outcomes could show early signs of strength and weakness.
A progressive darling, Jumaane D. Williams, won re-election as New York City public advocate, no surprise in a city where registered Democrats outnumber Republicans almost seven to one.
The election process itself also already reflected Democratic wins: This was the first year that New Yorkers were allowed to vote early, after the newly Democrat-led State Legislature approved a bill allowing the practice in January. (Of registered voters, 1.9 percent cast their ballots early.)
At the same time, conservatives made their presence known. A Republican beat back a Democratic challenger in a district attorney race in Western New York, in which progressives, including a Democratic megadonor, had invested heavily. In New Jersey, a vulnerable Democratic state senator lost his seat to a Republican who is leading Mr. Trump’s New Jersey campaign.
Here are four things of note from Election Day 2019:
New York City and Jersey City both left major decisions about the cities’ futures to voters.
New Yorkers overwhelmingly backed a system of ranked-choice voting, which allows voters to rank candidates in order of preference, rather than selecting only their top choice. The goal, supporters said, was to reduce runoff elections and minimize the risk of split votes: If no single candidate won a majority, the last-place finisher would be eliminated, and his or her votes would be redistributed to supporters’ second choices.
The system will be used only in primary and special elections and will apply to elections for mayor, comptroller, public advocate, borough president and the City Council. It will debut in 2021.
Though a group of elected officials mounted a last-minute opposition campaign, arguing that ranked-choice voting would leave minority candidates and voters at a disadvantage, the proposal passed with 73 percent support.
Other revisions to the City Charter will expand the powers of a police oversight board, allowing it to investigate and potentially prosecute police officers suspected of lying to the board, and ban city officials from lobbying their former agencies for two years after they leave public service.
In Jersey City, residents approved stricter regulations on short-term rentals, in the most expensive local referendum in the state’s history.
The new measures will be a blow to Airbnb, which plowed more than $4 million into ads, mailers and canvassers, easily outspending the hotel industry and an influential hotel workers union, which were in favor of the restrictions.
Jersey City had become increasingly valuable to the company as New York City escalated its own crackdown on illegal Airbnbs. The new restrictions aim to weed out large-scale investors who have rented out hundreds of brownstones and condos through Airbnb, raising quality-of-life complaints and concerns about the impact on housing affordability.
Though this year’s races didn’t garner the spotlight that those in 2020 will, they offered conflicting previews for many of next year’s likely themes.
The fervor that helped the Democrats retake the House of Representatives last year emerged again in Suffolk County on Long Island, where the Democratic county executive, Steve Bellone, won a third term, even though nearly 53 percent of the county voted for Mr. Trump in 2016.
But it fell short in New Jersey, where Senator Bob Andrzejczak, a Democrat, was unseated by Mike Testa Jr., the Republican co-chairman of President Trump’s re-election effort in New Jersey.
Mr. Trump had recorded a robocall urging voters to support Mr. Testa, and Mr. Testa had boasted of how the impeachment process had fired up the Republican base.
Within the Democratic Party, warfare is likely to continue as well.
Melinda Katz, the Queens borough president, easily defeated a Republican to become the next Queens district attorney. But while her victory on Tuesday was largely effortless, her path there was anything but: It involved the first boroughwide manual recount in recent memory, after the Democratic primary came down to a barely-there margin between Ms. Katz, who had the establishment’s blessing, and another candidate, Tiffany Cabán.
Ultimately, Ms. Cabán — a democratic socialist and former public defender who was endorsed by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez — lost to Ms. Katz by 55 votes.
Several other district attorney races also drew attention and boldfaced names, proof of growing attention by Democrats nationwide to prosecutor posts, which they see as a battleground ripe for progressive ideals.
In Monroe County in New York, which includes Rochester, Shani Curry Mitchell, a Democrat, challenged the Republican incumbent, Sandra Doorley, by running on a promise to curb mass incarceration, prioritize diversity and end “overcharging” of low-level offenders.
Ms. Mitchell attracted significant outside support: She was the beneficiary of more than $800,000 in outside spending by an activism group funded by the Democratic billionaire George Soros. But Ms. Doorley cast the spending as outsider interference, and she won by nearly 12 percentage points.
In Ulster County, in the Hudson Valley, David Clegg, a Democrat, ran against Michael J. Kavanagh, a Republican backed by the Republican incumbent, who did not seek re-election. Mr. Soros also spent at least $184,000 supporting Mr. Clegg. The race was too close to call as of early Wednesday morning.
Other regional races showcased the often-dizzying convolutions of local politics that are so often overshadowed by bigger contests.
The lone state legislative race in New York, a special election for State Senate in southwest New York, pitted a 22-year-old Democrat against a Republican in an overwhelmingly conservative area. The Democrat, Austin Morgan, had pointed to the 2018 blue wave as reason for hope, but he faced a huge fund-raising gap against his opponent, George Borrello, the county executive of Chautauqua County, and lost by nearly a three-to-one ratio.
In Connecticut, Mayor Joseph P. Ganim of Bridgeport claimed victory in his re-election bid, despite being dogged by allegations of voter fraud and his own checkered history. (Mr. Ganim spent seven years in federal prison for corruption, then won re-election in 2015 after being released.)
Mr. Ganim, a Democrat, had won September’s primary election by less than 300 votes, defeating State Senator Marilyn Moore. But after residents of a low-income apartment building told Hearst Connecticut Media that they had been improperly pushed to vote for Mr. Ganim, the State Elections Enforcement Commission opened an investigation, and Ms. Moore began a write-in campaign. Still, Mr. Ganim prevailed.
In New Haven, Justin Elicker, a former city alderman, bested the incumbent mayor, Toni Harp — for the second time. Mr. Elicker beat Ms. Harp in the Democratic primary in September, but Ms. Harp stayed in the race, running on the Working Families Party line.
Luis Ferré-Sadurní and Tracey Tully contributed reporting.

        Continue reading the main story
      
