
# What’s the Secret to a Lifetime of Happiness?

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rob Dube**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/robdube/2019/11/04/whats-the-secret-to-a-lifetime-of-happiness/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Happiness. What does it really mean?Personally, this is something I think about on a pretty regular basis. After all, the word happiness evokes different meanings and feelings for everyone. It could be tied to comfort, money, family, success, or any number of factors within our lives. 
My curiosity surrounding the meaning of true happiness—plus one of my friends and business mentors, Ari Weinzwieg—inspired my company, imageOne, to start an annual happiness survey.
Every year, my team members record their “Happy Metric,” as well as anything currently contributing to their score. As the years pass, we track this metric to measure each person’s overall sentiment both at work and beyond.
The results of this exercise have done more than help guide our leadership team in creating a positive, healthy work environment. It’s also made the word “happiness” take on a new quality for me. 
As I began following up on the surveys, I noticed that people had vastly different ways of defining what happiness meant to them despite recording consistent scores. For example, five team members might rank their happiness at an eight. Then, I’d read five vastly different reasons for why they’re at that level.
I couldn't help but wonder what led to our personal views of happiness. What aspects of joy do we all have in common, and what sets us apart? Also, is there an easy way to find happiness for ourselves, especially if we feel like it lacks in our lives? 
Perhaps that's why I was so drawn to Lisa Cypers Kamen and her pursuit of happiness. 
Lisa's an internationally recognized applied positive psychology coach, author of Are We Happy Yet?, speaker, filmmaker, and host of the Harvesting Happiness podcast. She's dedicated her career to the study of what it means to be happy. She's also the founder of Harvesting Happiness for Heroes, a nonprofit with a mission to provide positive psychology methods for current and past military members.
She's developed incredible tools and strategies created to add more optimism into our lives. It's unlikely that there will ever be a singular definition of happiness, but Lisa's determined to try.

        What Does It Mean to Be Happy?
      
A pivotal moment in Lisa’s quest for happiness came while she was cycling through northern India. During her travels, she began meeting locals who—at least to the average Westerners—she says, “seemingly had nothing.” The places they called home consisted of little more than a tarp overhead attached to some trees.
“Yet the lights were on in their eyes,” says Lisa. “They were joyful. They were eager and curious to share what they had.” Despite possessing so little, she could tell that these people were truly happy. 
That experience became her epiphany. “In the west, we’re surrounded by abundance, but most people aren't that happy. However, the people I met in India had so very little, and they’re happy. 
“What gives?”
Lisa couldn't help but ponder whether a life surrounded by abundance could actually trigger less happiness. The more she dug into this idea, the more it began to make sense. With constant access to things that provide quick, yet often unfulfilling, bursts of joy, we often become obsessed with chasing this happiness high.
"We're insatiable as humans," says Lisa. "We're pleasure-seeking missiles, and we always want more." Soon, desperate for a quick hit of happy feelings, we search for them constantly. And thanks to our abundant society, we usually find a fix. 
But then, when we can’t find suitable positive stimulation, we crash. 
“That’s not happiness,” Lisa says. 
So, instead of obsessing over these quick fixes, she suggests that we find ways to live a life of sustainable happiness—and not chasing those unfulfilling highs.
"Happiness doesn't mean the annoying yellow smiley face. Instead, it's about contentment and peace of mind. It's that feeling of being grounded and appreciative of where we are in our lives," she says. "At this moment, everything is going to be ok."
In essence, rather than aim for regular surges of euphoria, integrate life habits that consistently make you feel really good. Not surprisingly, Lisa has plenty of ideas on how to do it.

        Prioritize Positive Relationships & Activities
      
Think about those that you surround yourself with every day. Do these people lift you up? Or, do you usually walk away down and frustrated? If it's the latter—why?
To create a sustainably happier future, Lisa suggests that we prioritize our connections with people, hobbies, and activities that promote optimism. 
This doesn't always mean removing anyone less than purely positive from your life. "Some people in my life aren't the most psychologically healthy—but I love them," says Lisa. "They're part of my orbit." 
However, you also have to step back and acknowledge that those relationships sometimes do bring you down. Embrace those people when the time is right, but gracefully keep your distance if your happiness meter runs low. 

        Turn Off the Screen and Get Some Sleep
      
Every day, more studies are proving the importance of sleep—and according to Lisa, it's closely tied to our happiness.
"Sleep is very underrated in terms of wellness," says Lisa. "We need to sleep." Thankfully, she's seeing sleep’s importance finally rising on people's radar. Still, it's far from where she thinks it should be. 
"We're trying to cram so many things into our days, and we're so addicted to our digital devices," she says. "We go to sleep with our devices! This sends the wrong signals to our brains. They don't know that it's time to power down."
She thinks that our on-screen obsession has skewed what we imagine a real human connection to be. "In other words," Lisa says, "it's now through a machine—not the actual humanness of being together." 
As our physical time alongside other people dwindles, does our happiness as well? Can a screen truly replicate our basic need for human connection?

        Stay Grounded and Grateful
      
Lisa believes that to continually experience happiness, "we need a sense of groundedness and connection to one another. We're all a part of something greater than ourselves." By creating these genuine bonds, keeping the ego in check, and celebrating the successes of others, we can regularly find simple joys within these positive relationships.
"We need each other," she says. "Even if we think we don't—that's BS. When we can enjoy the success of someone else, it elevates everyone. This also mitigates the stressors of daily life. We can take a breath to embrace something good."
Expressing gratitude is another one of her favorite ways to stay connected, and even us through trying times. "Gratitude is the secret sauce," says Lisa. 
A great tool to instill gratitude into your life is a gratitude journal. "It's tried and true," she says. "You can have a bad patch in your life and still find a moment of happiness or contentedness within it." Just flip back to a better time, and you'll instantly remember that it's not always so bad.

        Invite Yourself to a Life of Happiness
      
"There's no exclusive club for happiness," says Lisa. We're all invited to join. However, it often takes a substantial mental readjustment. Just think, are we really born with a pessimistic view of the world?
She points to children as an example. "Children are usually happy by nature. "Then, they get dampened down by life. It's like this vicious cycle."
So, how can we climb back into that childlike mindset? "We have to do that for ourselves," says Lisa. "Nobody can make us happy. No spouse. No partner. No amount of monetary success can ultimately make us happy in a sustainable way."
Sure, these things might offer us more opportunities for pleasure and comfort as we go through life. But at the core, it won't fulfill our need for true happiness. 
"Ultimately, it comes from within," Lisa says. "We have the choice to view our lives through any lens. We get to make a choice—and when we don't, that's still a choice."
Now, what choice will you make on your own quest for happiness?

        You'll learn more about her exploration of happiness, why she launched her nonprofit Harvesting Happiness for Heroes, whether money can buy happiness, which exciting projects she has coming up, and so much more. 
      

         
      
