
# Ben Davies opens up on how Tottenham players reacted to horror Andre Gomes injury

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:18:59+00:00**

Author: **David Maddock, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-maddock/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/ben-davies-opens-up-how-20811329)

Ben Davies has revealed the Goodison rallying cry aimed at pulling Tottenham together…and behind devastated Son.
The stand-in skipper admits every single player was emotional and upset as they witnessed the horrific injury to Everton’s Andre Gomes , and it’s impact on their popular team-mate.
Son was dismissed - after an intervention from VAR - for his challenge on Gomes which inadvertently led to the injury, and he was led to the dressing room in tears.
Right there though, even before the game restarted, Davies explained that the players got in a huddle as they responded to the distressed scenes which had a big impact on everyone watching.
“As a group we have to pull together now. That’s what we said on the pitch, pulling together when times are tough. You could see how much it affected everyone in the stadium. It was a tough moment to deal with,” he said.
“I speak for everyone when I say sympathy for Gomes, I hope he’s alright. Son is really shaken up. He’s down about what happened. We will try to pick him up as much as we can.
“It’s tough right now. It’s just about making sure that he realises he didn’t go out there to hurt anyone, he thinks that people may see that in him but it’s not the case.
“It’s one of those things. There were probably three more tackles that were worse than the incident that happened. It’s a freak moment in football. Son can’t let himself be too down about it.”
Davies admitted the injury to Gomes had a big impact on the game, and on the Spurs players, who to a man were devastated to see a fellow pro suffer so badly.
The Wales international has been through it before, when Ireland’s Seamus Coleman - who was on the bench for Everton on Sunday - suffered a similar compound fracture playing for his country against the Welsh back in 2017.
And he said: “It does affect you. It really does. It’s not the first time it has happened me in a game, when Seamus Coleman suffered a bad injury for Ireland as well. It shakes you up.
“It doesn’t matter if it’s your teammate or not. You can see the emotion across the pitch. Nobody goes on the pitch to hurt anyone, especially not somebody like Son who is a bit broken in there dealing with what has happened.
“The team just have to sometimes say these things happen in football and, as horrible as it is, they do. For us it is just hoping Andre Gomes is OK now.”
Davies also insisted that the time is not right to talk about the red card issued to Son, which had a big impact on the game, with Spurs reduced to ten men.
Everton equalised through Cenk Tosun in the 12 minutes of stoppage time added because of the injury to Gomes, but the skipper said:
“To be honest I haven’t seen it (the tackle) back and I don’t really know exactly what happened.
“When you see injuries like that your first reaction is it must be a bad tackle but I don’t know, it may not be the case but it doesn’t seem right to argue it at the time.”
