
# Paisley mum who was taking drugs as a teen has turned her life around

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:44:18+00:00**

Author: **Andrea Lambrou, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/andrea-lambrou/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/paisley-mum-who-taking-drugs-20822845)

A Paisley mum who started popping ecstasy pills at 14 and suffered a heroin overdose has turned her life around after opening up and talking about her experiences with other drug users.
Lorraine Bruce, who is now committee treasurer at the Sunshine Recovery Café in Paisley, used alcohol and drugs for more than 15 years before seeking help.
The mum-of-two was in primary six when she started smoking cigarettes and by the time she went into high school, she was smoking hash and taking acid.
At 14 she started going to ‘unders’ nights before meeting up with her older friends, taking ecstasy and heading out to clubs.
She fell pregnant at 15 and had a termination, which caused her life to spiral out of control.
Lorraine said: “The termination was the turning point for me.
“At 16, I ended up in a homeless unit in Renfrew but was kicked out when I started smoking heroin.
“A friend told me that to make the pain go away, I should take more of it, so it just became a cycle.”
Even after technically dying in the operating theatre, she kept using.
She explained: “I woke up in hospital one morning and had no idea how I got there. My mum told me that she got a call saying her daughter had taken a drug overdose and was going to die. I was completely out of it.
“They had to resuscitate me and give me adrenalin and I ended up on life support.
“But as soon as I got out of hospital, I started using again.
“When I look back, I know there was no real reason for me to be doing it. I just enjoyed the feeling of not having to worry about things.”
At 21, she started injecting heroin, while taking 200 Valium a day and smoking crack cocaine.
At 26, she realised she wanted to change.
“I just started to grow up a wee bit,” said Lorraine. “Everyone I knew was going to jail.
“My friends started dying and I realised that I didn’t want that for myself. I wanted to have a life.
“People talk about their friends from years ago but I can’t as so many of mine are dead.”
Lorraine received support from Renfrewshire Drug Service, where she would meet her key worker weekly to talk about how she was feeling and her plans for moving forward.
Two years after being drug free and on methadone, Lorraine became pregnant.
She got back into work three years ago after applying for a Scottish Drug Forum’s Addiction Worker Training Project and completing her SVQ 2 in Health and Social Care.
Lorraine struggled after her mum tragically passed away just as she was finishing her placement. But, one year later, Lorraine was offered a voluntary position at the Sunshine Recovery Café which led onto a committee secretary post and role as treasurer.
She said: “My mum was my best friend.
“I’m very proud that she got to see me make it through to the other side and to meet my two boys.
“The Sunshine Recovery Café is my second home. I love the people there – everyone is in recovery and everyone is supporting each other through it.
“If I hadn’t been through it all, I wouldn’t be the person I am now.”
Lorraine is delighted the Renfrewshire Alcohol and Drugs Commission has been set up and has no doubt that hearing from people – and family members – who are living with the impact of alcohol and drug use will be a vital part of how Renfrewshire moves things forward.
She added: “It’s so important that we talk about these issues and bring them out into the open. Everyone is affected by addiction and mental health but some people still have a fear of talking about it.
“I hope that the work of the commission will encourage services to share information so that we can work together to improve lives.”
Lead officer for the commission, Laura McIntyre, said: “Local organisations like the Sunshine Recovery Cafe are fantastic, and through the commission we are recognising the need for everyone in Renfrewshire to work together to support recovery and to build strong relationships with each other.
“As we move into 2020, it’s exciting to see possible recommendations emerging, with a huge opportunity for Renfrewshire as a whole to come together to positively support recovery, and to improve the life chances of local people.”
