
# Sidharth Malhotra on being linked to Tara Sutaria and Kiara Advani, “I am a method actor so I fall in love with all the actors”

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:37:10+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/sidharth-malhotra-on-being-linked-to-tara-sutaria-and-kiara-advani-i-am-a-method-actor-so-i-fall-in-love-with-all-the-actors/articleshow/71935980.cms)

Sidharth Malhotra often makes headlines for being in a relationship with his co-stars. From dating his ‘Student of The Year’ co-star Alia Bhatt to being linked with ‘Marjaavaan’ leading lady Tara Sutaria and rumoured to be in a relationship with his ‘Shershaah’ co-star Kiara Advani, Sidharth is very popular with the ladies. In an interview with a daily the actor reacted to the link-ups and stated that he is a method actor and tends to fall in love with all his co-stars, Sidharth added that he is usually seen in love stories and the onscreen romance maybe trickling down to his real life.
While Sidharth is yet to find love in real life, the actor feels positively about getting married one day. The actor further stated that he is keen to get into a love marriage and will do so the day he falls in love.
Sidharth is currently promoting his revenge drama ‘Marjaavaan’ which is scheduled to hit the screens on November 15. The film is directed by Milap Zaveri and also features Tara Sutaria, Rakul Preet Singh and Riteish Deshmukh. The actor will also be seen in Captain Vikram Batra’s biopic ‘Shershaah’. Directed by Vishnuvardhan the film is produced by Karan Johar under his banner Dharma Productions.
