
# Read 'The Family Upstairs' By Lisa Jewell With Bustle Book Club This November

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:15:25+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/read-the-family-upstairs-by-lisa-jewell-with-bustle-book-club-this-november-19291884)


        Each month, the Bustle Book Club asks an author to recommend a book they think everyone should read. In November, 
        The Turn of the Key author Ruth Ware
         recommends The Family Upstairs by Lisa Jewell.
      
Have you ever imagined the possibility of unexpectedly learning that you're the heir to an enormous fortune — or at least, a beautiful, expensive piece of property? Who doesn't want to believe that their student loans, credit card debt, and lack of retirement savings could be solved in one instant, thanks for the benevolence of a kind relative? In The Family Upstairs by Lisa Jewell, this dream becomes a reality for one woman. On her 25th birthday, she opens a letter that contains two shocking bits of information: The first is the identity of her birth parents; the second is the unexpected revelation that she is now the owner of their London mansion. But, the inheritance comes at a steep cost: Twenty-five years before, police arrived at the mansion to find three people dead — including her parents — and four children missing.
From there, the plot of The Family Upstairs diverges in three different directions, all narrated by a different person impacted by the events of that fateful night. It's a crooked path toward resolution for these three people, and in the end, everything you thought you knew at the beginning of the novel will be challenged.
The Family Upstairs comes recommended to you by a thriller queen: Ruth Ware, the author of In A Dark, Dark Wood, The Woman In Cabin 10, and The Turn of the Key, among other books. Lisa Jewell, too, is royalty in the genre; she has written 18 novels, many of them mysteries, including The Girls in the Garden, Then She Was Gone, and Watching You.
Here's why Ware thinks you should read her latest novel:
Can't wait to dive into this thriller? You can read the first two chapters on Bustle right now.

        
          The Family Upstairs by Lisa Jewell is being published on Nov. 5, 2019 by Simon & Schuster. You can now order the book or order the audiobook.
        
      
