
# Gardner Minshew Struggles As Jaguars Ponder Quarterback Decision With Nick Foles Due Back

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Debbi Taylor**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/debbitaylor/2019/11/03/gardner-minshew-struggles-as-jaguars-ponder-quarterback-decision-with-nick-foles-due-back/)

Rookie quarterback Gardner Minshew had four turnovers and the Jaguars left London on Sunday with a frustrating 26-3 defeat against the Texans. For Minshew, Week 9 was a chance to prove to head coach Doug Marrone he should remain as the team’s starter with veteran quarterback Nick Foles eligible to return in Week 11. Instead, he may have helped make the choice a little easier. The Jaguars have a bye next weekend, but after Sunday’s loss at Wembley Stadium in London, Marrone was asked about the impending decision. “I'm going to step away a little bit, take a break because I don't have to make a decision and have time,” Marrone explained. “That's what I'm going to talk to the quarterbacks about, and then I'll tell them probably right before we come back on Sunday, we'll be able to discuss where we're going to go. That's pretty much my plan.”
This was Minshew’s first time traveling outside of the country and it was a trip that will be memorable for all the wrong reasons. It wasn’t fun for the 23-year-old who was 27 for 47 with no touchdowns and two interceptions (he had a total of two interceptions entering the game). Minshew was also sacked four times and he fumbled twice against Houston. It was a start he’d probably rather forget and after the game he didn’t mince words.
“Yeah, it sucks, man. Didn't execute at times, didn't make plays we needed to win,” Minshew admitted. “So yeah, it's no fun.”
Minshew was aiming to leave a good impression on the Jaguars coaching staff and help the Jaguars own a winning record. Instead, they’ll be working to get back to .500 when they visit the Colts on November 17thin Indianapolis. Despite, the loss Marrone admitted he has a lot to think about in terms of his starting quarterback decision.
“It's not one game,” Marrone noted. “It'll be a body of work.” 
Minshew has accomplished quite a bit if you look at his overall work. He was drafted out of Washington State in the Sixth Round (178th overall) of the 2019 Draft on April 27th. Less than two weeks later, on May 9th, he signed a four-year, $2,710,884 contract with the Jaguars. His deal includes a $190,884 signing bonus, $190,884 guaranteed and an average salary of $677,721 according to Spotrac.com. This season he will earn a base salary of $495,000 and a signing bonus of $190,884 while carrying a cap hit of $542,721 and a dead cap value of $190,884 also per Spotrac.com.  
While the team was in London, Jaguars owner Shad Khan met with a group of local reporters including Jaguars.com senior writer John Oehser. He was very candid about his take on Minshew during the NFL Combine.   
“He was just loose and relaxed but a million times more prepared,” Khan told Jaguars.com. “The consensus was he was not going to get drafted. He came in and said, “Okay, I know the book on me. I’m too short. I don’t have the arm strength. I’m too slow. But I won 11 [expletive] games last year’. Okay, wow, this is pretty cool. For Tom Coughlin to immediately get up and say, “This is interesting…’” 
When Foles broke his clavicle against the Chiefs in the home opener, Khan said he had “confidence in Gardner [Minshew]”. Minshew answered the call with the ability to keep the team in most of their games. Minshew Mania took over Jacksonville and there has been excitement and energy in the air surrounding the young quarterback and his team. With Foles getting closer to being able to play again the team must decide which quarterback will start. Before the London game, there was talk there could be a quarterback controversy. After Minshew’s miserable performance those talks have quieted down but there is still a question about who will be named the team’s starting quarterback in Week 11. 
The team is paying Foles significantly more money than Gardner. The veteran quarterback was their coveted free agent signing. The Jaguars inked Foles to a four-year, $88 million dollar contract including a $25 million signing bonus, $50,125,000 guaranteed and an average annual salary of $22 million according to Spotrac.com. This year he will earn a base salary of $5 million, a signing bonus of $25 million, a roster bonus of $500,000 and a workout bonus of $250,000 while carrying a cap hit of $12 million and a dead cap value of $45,375,000 also per Spotrac.com.
On Sunday, Jacksonville dropped its record to 4-5 slipping to the bottom of the AFC South Division while Texas improved to 6-3 taking sole possession of first place. For Marrone, the final decision of which quarterback starts for the Jaguars will come down to who can bring the team back into the win column.
