
# 'Like looking through butterfly wings': Ira Cohen's Mylar chamber – in pictures

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:01:18+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/gallery/2019/nov/05/like-looking-through-butterfly-wings-ira-cohens-mylar-chamber-in-pictures)


        In a New York loft 50 years ago, poet, photographer and film-maker Ira Cohen hung reflective Mylar film on hinged boards, walls and ceiling, and invited visitors – including William Burroughs and Jimi Hendrix – to explore an experimental space
      
Cohen (born in New York in 1935) lived in Morocco in the early 1960s. When he returned to New York in the mid-60s, he found himself at the heart of the counterculture. He became immersed in independent cinema, theatre, multimedia experiments and avant-garde collaborations. Ira Cohen: Into the Mylar Chamber is published by Fulgur Press. All photographs: © The Estate of Ira Cohen, 2019
Between 1968-71 Cohen photographed and filmed the reflections of sitters and performers in sheets of Mylar (synthesised silver plastic), that he had draped on walls and hung from the ceiling in his loft. He called this small theatre the Mylar Chamber
Mylar, a stretched polyester film created in the mid-50s, became a quintessential 60s material, used for magnetic recording tape, Nasa spacesuits and product packaging
Cohen says: ‘All the first photographs were made in black light. I had no idea how complicated that really was even when I was doing it with Bill Devore (photographer). It was an enormous amount of work. We were painting every object … anything that we wanted to respond to the black light had to be painted and prepared’
‘Looking at your pictures is like looking through butterfly wings’ said Hendrix. ‘Few came as close to explaining the euphoric distortions of hallucinogenics,’ wrote Life magazine of the images in their December 1969 summary of the past decade
For Cohen, Mylar was the ‘mirror of miracles’, a visionary, fractured and molten canvas exemplary of the silver age of the 60s, a period of space exploration and nostalgia for the 40s silver screen
William Burroughs was one of Cohen’s sitters. The two met in Tangiers
Theatrical sets, costumes, makeup, trance music, dance, film and slide projection, reel-to-reel tape recordings and playback were all part of the experience
Cohen was both director and an actor and costumed his cast in collaboration with the performers
Cohen played on 19th and early 20th-century spirit photography, with the Mylar Chamber as séance, and the photographer as medium
