
# Arsenal are toxic again... they could copy post-Sir Alex Ferguson Man Utd

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Robbie Savage, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/robbie-savage/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-toxic-again-could-copy-20790161?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

Whether or not Granit Xhaka captains Arsenal again, a toxic atmosphere at the Emirates is by far the bigger picture.
Apart from Xhaka being jeered off by his own supporters last weekend, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang was accosted by idiots and abused as he drove away from the 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace... although he is probably the Gunners’ best player.
And manager Unai Emery was serenaded by fans calling for the return of playmaker Mesut Ozil.
If Arsenal are not careful, they will be back in a cycle where unrest among the fans could force out the manager, like Emery’s predecessor Arsene Wenger.
And they could end up going down the same path as Manchester United’s decline since Sir Alex Ferguson retired.
The situation with Xhaka is an unhappy scenario, but you have to say Emery contributed to it.
Being captain of a massive club like Arsenal should not be decided by a popularity contest, and holding a poll of the players, because every dressing room has its cliques.
I captained four clubs in the Premier League, and to wear the armband I believe you have to be one of the best players and worth your place in the side every week.
If they had been popularity contests, maybe I wouldn’t have captained all four.
Is Xhaka the Gunners’ best player? Not in the eyes of most people.
Is he worth a place in their starting XI every week? That’s highly debatable.
What is definitely not acceptable is for trolls on social media to make death threats against his wife or wish that his little daughter gets cancer.
That sort of abuse is way below the belt. And scapegoating never looks pretty.
And as the captain who sets an example, Xhaka was wrong to behave the way he did when he was hooked against Palace - but he is only human, and as he said in his statement on Thursday night, he reached “boiling point.”
Clearly Xhaka has the respect of his team-mates, if not the fans, but his fate as skipper is not Emery’s only problem – not by a long chalk.
He has spent £205 million in three transfer windows now, and he appears no closer to establishing an identity for his team.
The fans pay good money to watch, and they are entitled to their opinion, although booing one of your own players can never be right in my book.
It seems to happen mainly at home – there seems to be more unity between the away supporters and their team.
Aaron Ramsey, scorer of two FA Cup final winners, went through a difficult period a few years ago, and now he has gone to Juventus, suddenly the supporters wish he was still in north London.
But for Emery, the rumbles of thunder seem to be growing louder.
As one inspired Gunners supporter, @laythy29, observed:
Emery’s Arsenal is a pressing team that can’t press.
He has a side that wants to play out from the back but they can’t.
It’s a team packed with talented players who can’t function.
He picked a captain to lead the side who isn’t worth his place.
His defenders can’t defend.
And his most creative player can’t create because he was being frozen out – until the game on Wednesday, when Ozil shone against Liverpool’s kids.
Ouch – that’s not a great tribute when you have spent £200m.
I thought Arsenal should have finished in the top four last season, when they blew it by losing at home to Palace on the run-in, and although they reached the Europa League final, their defeat by Chelsea in Baku was embarrassing.
And after losing to United in the FA Cup, and Tottenham in the EFL Cup, I have to ask: Does Emery’s Arsenal produce the goods often enough in the big games?
Look, I think he deserves at least one more transfer window, and he should be judged at the end of this season.
If he delivers an improvement on last year’s fifth place, and wins a trophy, he can justifiably claim the club has progressed on his watch.
Or do Arsenal want to go down the same road as United? They have spent £900m at Old Trfford since Fergie stepped down, and they are already on their fourth manager since 2014.
My take is that Arsenal should stick with Emery – a proven winner at Sevilla – and that the supporters should be careful what they wish for.
If they come unstuck against Wolves this weekend, there will be an air of mutiny.
But what will the fans achieve if they drive Emery out, just as hammering Xhaka and Aubameyang will achieve nothing positive?
Currently, Arsenal are above United and Tottenham in the Premier League, and the four-point gap to Chelsea is not insurmountable.
If the Gunners finish above those three clubs in May, in my book that would be a huge success.
