
# Dubai International Motor Show 2019: everything you need to know about the exciting event

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:42:00+00:00**

Author: **Time Out Dubai staff**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/things-to-do/422192-dubai-international-motor-show-2019-everything-you-need-to-know-about-the-exciting-event)

If you’re a supercar-lover or a serious car buyer, you’ll be no stranger to the Dubai International Motor Show, but if you’re new to the city or just need a quick refresher, fret not, as we break down all you need to know about the region’s largest motoring event.It all kicks off on Tuesday November 12 and runs through ‘til Saturday November 16. Here’s why you’ll want to check out this super-exciting motoring show – whether you’re a petrolhead or not.Go on then, what is it?Vrrroom, and racing into town, the Dubai International Motor Show is the largest, most established motoring event in the Middle East. This year marks the 15th edition of the biennial event which has been running for an impressive 28 years now.How can I nab tickets?The five-day event will be held at Dubai World Trade Centre, Sheikh Zayed Road, from Tuesday November 12 to Saturday November 16 from 1pm until 9pm each day. Tickets can be purchased from platinumlist.net and start at Dhs20 (12 to 18 years old), Dhs30 for adults or Dhs40 at the door. Register before Monday November 11 and you’ll also get 25 percent off, while ladies can enter for free between 1pm and 4pm from Tuesday November 12 until Thursday November 14. Pretty bargainous if you ask us considering everything you’ll get to see there.Is there a theme?Indeed, there is. There’s going to be an eye opening focus on the future of mobility – think virtual reality, augmented reality, 3D mobility and breakthrough technology including the much-talked about Virgin Hyperloop One. Get ready to take a ride into the future…What kind of cars can we expect to see?From awe-inspiring supercars to vintage classics, what kind of cars won’t you see? From Asia to the United States, this year’s show will feature the world’s biggest international manufacturers showcasing their latest models including Gargash, Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Ferrari, Maserati, Lincoln, Cadillac, Chevrolet, GMC, Jaguar Land Rover, Nissan, Mitsubishi and many more. The Motor Show’s brand new zone Supercar Alley will display a collection of one-of-a-kind privately-owned hypercars worth a combined Dhs500 million. Fans can see the likes of a limited edition Bugatti Veyron, the 800-horse power hypercar Pagani Huayra, and a $10million Lamborghini Veneno in the dedicated supercar zone. The UAE based Ajlani Motors is all set to debut its hypercar which is already making waves globally, and the fastest electric car – ever – will also be debuted. Visitors can also see the best of Formula 1 racing machines and classic car lovers will also be treated to some vintage nostalgia as well as auctions with a selection of vintage European, Japanese and American classics.Will there be any experiences?How does flying through Dubai in a two-seater drone sound to you? There will be a pop-up virtual reality experience you can try, which will take thrill-seekers on an inner-city drone flight through and above the streets of Dubai. There’s also going to be a close look inside the capsule concept for the proposed Dubai to Abu Dhabi Hyperloop – the vacuumed tube capable of firing passenger pods at speeds of up to 1,080kmph. And with a host of other activities including Red Bull bike stunts, live drifting and more, it will be pedal to the metal.
