
# When the Chiefs win with a high-school coach at QB, we know they are for real

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:00:24+00:00**

Author: **Hunter Felt**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/04/matt-moore-kansas-city-chiefs-nfl)


        Kansas City have done pretty well without Patrick Mahomes at the helm. The rest of the league should worry when he returns
      
When the Kansas City Chiefs approached Matt Moore about taking over as their back-up quarterback from the injured Chad Henne in August, he was working as an assistant coach at California’s Hart High School. Now, Moore, who did not play a single snap in the NFL in 2018, may have led Kansas City to their biggest win of the season. The Chiefs’ gritty 26-23 win over Kirk Cousins and the Minnesota Vikings not only improved their record to 6-3, good enough to keep them in first place in the AFC West, it showed that this is a genuine team and not just Patrick Mahomes’s supporting cast.
Nobody, other than delusional professional contrarian Skip Bayless, would argue that the Chiefs would be better off in the long run with Moore rather than Mahomes. Mahomes is a generational talent, who could potentially be the face of the entire league. The sooner he comes back from his dislocated knee, the better it will be for the team’s chances at winning, both in the short-term and in the long-term.
With that obvious caveat, the Chiefs having to come together to win this game without Mahomes could end up paying dividends later in the season. When Mahomes is fully healthy and playing at his best, he is about as close as it comes to football having a cheat code and there can be a temptation to simply run the offense through him and let him rack up ridiculous numbers. In the regular season, in a quarterback-driven league, that’s usually going to result in a win. The postseason, however, can be a different beast, as the Chiefs learned back in January.
Sunday’s offensive star was wide receiver Tyreek Hill, who showed why the Chiefs have stuck with him despite the disturbing child abuse allegations leveled against him. Hill picked up 140 receiving yards, averaging 23.3 yards per carry and was the recipient of Moore’s lone touchdown pass. He even managed to steal the spotlight from his own teammate when he caught up to running back Damien Williams during his 91-yard touchdown run. The late game heroics came courtesy of kicker Harrison Butker who hit a 54-yard field goal to tie the game and then won it all on a 44-yarder.
