
# How To Watch UFC 244 Prelims

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/01/how-to-watch-ufc-244-prelims/)

The UFC is at Madison Square Garden in New York City for Saturday’s UFC 244 fight card. The pay-per-view event, which streams on ESPN+, is headlined by a welterweight contest between Jorge Masvidal and Nate Diaz. The BMF title, which was created in the mind of Diaz and spoken into existence, is on the line in that matchup. In the co-main event, Kelvin Gastelum welcomes Darren Till to the middleweight division.Every fight on the pay-per-view portion of the card has high stakes, but that doesn’t mean you should skip the prelims and wait to watch the pay-per-view portion of the card. No, the prelims have some intriguing matchups as well. 
At the top of the prelims, Corey Anderson, who has quietly put together a three-fight winning streak, faces Johnny Walker who has loudly and memorably won his first three UFC fights with “Performance of the Night” bonus-winning knockouts. This bout represents a big test for Walker, who a showy and charismatic competitor who looks and acts the part of a fun title contender. However, Walker has never faced a takedown attempt in the UFC. If there’s anything Anderson does, it’s takedowns.
Before that, two of the more exciting featherweights in the UFC face off when Shane Burgos faces Makwan Amirkhani. Burgos is 12-1 in his career, while Amirkhani is 15-3. Both fighters are on two-fight winning streaks. 
Also on the prelims is the unbeaten Edmen Shahbazyan, who is managed by Ronda Rousey. The 21-year-old has set a goal of becoming the youngest champion in UFC history. The middleweight competitor is 10-0 in his career. Shahbazyan faces UFC veteran Brad Tavares, whose past two losses have come to current UFC middleweight champion Israel Adesanya and former UFC titleholder Robert Whittaker. Tavares had a four-fight winning streak between those two setbacks.

        HOW TO WATCH OR STREAM UFC 244
      
UFC 244 takes place Saturday, November 2, 2019, at Madison Square Garden in New York City. The pay-per-view card streams on ESPN+ at 10 p.m. ET. Prelims begin at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN2 following the early prelims which start at 6:30 p.m. ET on ESPN+, and UFC Fight Pass.

        UFC 244 Pay-Per-View Card (ESPN+ 10 p.m. ET)
      
Jorge Masvidal vs. Nate Diaz   
Kelvin Gastelum vs. Darren Till   
Stephen Thompson vs. Vicente Luque  
Derrick Lewis vs. Blagoy Ivanov   
Kevin Lee vs. Gregor Gillespie   

        Preliminary Card (ESPN2 8 p.m. ET)
      
Corey Anderson vs. Johnny Walker   
Shane Burgos vs. Makwan Amirkhani  
Brad Tavares vs. Edmen Shahbazyan   
Andrei Arlovski vs. Jairzinho Rozenstruik   

        Early Preliminary Card (ESPN+ and UFC Fight Pass 6:30 p.m. ET)
      
Jennifer Maia vs. Katlyn Chookagian  
Lyman Good vs. Chance Rencountre   
Julio Arce vs. Hakeem Dawodu 

        More From UFC 244:
      
