
# ‘I Can’t Explain It’: Peloton CEO Puzzled As Stock Sinks Again

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Biz Carson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bizcarson/2019/11/05/i-cant-explain-it-peloton-first-earnings-report/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2811292250&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesTechTwitter)

Peloton CEO John Foley isn’t quite sure what to make of the public market’s reception to his fitness company: “It’s a head-scratcher.”The company had the second-worst debut of a billion-dollar tech company this year after it priced at the high end of its IPO and opened trading below it, closing the day down more than 11%. Its stock hasn’t regained its footing, and on Tuesday, following its first earnings report as a public earnings company, Peloton saw its stock dip again, closing down 7% for the day.
“I can’t explain it, especially coming out of this morning when we had 103% top-line growth,” he told Forbes. “We’re going to achieve high growth and profitability much sooner than people think, yet we traded down.”
The company reported that it had doubled its revenue to $228 million for the first quarter of its 2020 fiscal year, up from $112.1 million a year ago and beating analyst expectations of $196 million. It also narrowed its losses year-over-year by $4.8 million, but it still lost $49.8 million in its last quarter. Subscribers to its bike and treadmills, along with people who use Peloton’s app on their own workout equipment, also doubled in the last year.
Wall Street, though, has shown little patience for money-losing tech IPOs in 2019 as it looks for profits. Like Peloton, Uber and Lyft are each trading over 30% down from their IPO prices. Uber beat earnings estimates on Monday but still clocked over $1.1 billion in losses for the quarter, and its stock also fell more than 7% in trading.
Foley thinks macroeconomic forces are partially to blame, along with general confusion on how to evaluate Peloton’s business. So far, the market’s sentiment has reminded the CEO of when he was pitching venture capitalists who were looking to pattern match his company to businesses like Uber or Grubhub and largely dismissed the idea.
“For better or worse, there is no comparison,” he says. “If you’re an investor who has invested along the lines of looking for pattern recognition, you’re going to be confused, and you’re not going to find a lot of sure footing around how to evaluate Peloton.”
He knows the market is looking for the company to become profitable, but he says that he’s not holding off on investing for now. The company bought a manufacturer in Taiwan for $47.4 million, allowing it more control over its supply chain and potentially more of a defense in a trade war. Peloton’s also building out its content studios in New York and London, and launching in Germany in November.
“To the extent that the market trades down today, or tomorrow, or however long it takes them to figure us out, we think we’re making the right decisions,” he said.
Uber has had to trim over 2% of its workforce since its public market debut, but Foley says he is not looking to do any layoffs and is still hiring. Instead, there have only been a few small tweaks to Peloton’s plans: Foley told Axios earlier Tuesday that it plans to scrape its Super Bowl ad, saving a few million.
“That’s just one small example of a change we made to react to the climate,” he says. “Ninety-nine percent of what we’re doing is exactly what we set out to do, and we’re not having the tail wagging the dog and having the markets dictate our strategy.”
