
# Apple TV+ launches in SA at R84.99

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:42:43+00:00**

Author: **Thinus Ferreira**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/TV/News/apple-tv-launches-in-sa-at-r8499-20191104)

Cape Town – Apple has launched its streaming service in South Africa, costing R84.99. The service launched on Friday, 1 November. 
Apple TV+ will now compete with the likes of Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, and MultiChoice's Showmax.
The company gives a free year subscription to Apple TV+ to consumers who buy a new iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch, Mac or an Apple TV.
Apple TV+ is available with a free 7-day trial period, with Apple TV+ granting access for up to 6 people, with content that can be streamed or be downloaded and watched offline.

        WHAT TO WATCH
      
The first three episodes of the new drama series revolving around the chaos behind-the-scenes of an American breakfast show, The Morning Show with Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon is available, as well as an episode of See, a new science fiction drama series starring Jason Momoa.
For All Mankind is an alt-history drama series in which NASA is in crisis after the Soviets become the first nation to land a man on the moon in 1969.
Dickinson is a period drama set during the period of author Emily Dickinson (Hailee Steinfeld), as a young woman boxed in by the constraints of society, gender and family expectations.
The Elephant Queen is a natural history documentary with Chiwetel Ejiofor as narrator, telling the story of Athena, a mother elephant who tries to protect her herd when forced to leave their waterhole.
Other new exclusive Apple TV+ content includes Snoopy in Space, Helpsters, Ghostwriter, Servant and Truth Be Told.
Apple TV+ will add more content including series, documentaries and films, including Oprah Winfrey who has revived and moved her book club to the service. The first new episode is a sit-down interview with the author and essayist Ta-Nehisi Coates to discuss his debut novel, The Water Dancer.

        To watch 
        
          
            Apple TV+
          
        
         viewers have to download the app and access it on an Apple device. 
      
