
# Toby Green wins the 2019 Nayef Al-Rodhan Prize

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:49:04+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/books/features/toby-green-wins-the-2019-nayef-al-rodhan-prize/articleshow/71940681.cms)

On October 30, British Historian, Toby Green was conferred with the Nayef Al-Rodhan Prize for his thought-provoking account of West African countries titled ‘A Fistful of Shells: West Africa from the Rise of the Slave Trade to the Age of Revolution’ during a ceremony held at the British Academy in London.
Originally called the 'Nayef Al-Rodhan Prize for Transcultural Understanding' this prize was established in 2013. It is now known as the 'Nayef Al-Rodhan Prize for Global Cultural Understanding'. It intends to throw light on the interconnections and divisions that shape cultural identity throughout the world. In his book, Toby has successfully driven away the standard view that the white colonizers undertook the alleged burden to care for the indigenous race. Green argues that there is more to Africa than slavery and abolition. Ironically, the title of the book is derived from one of the currencies that is used in trade- cowrie shells. During his extensive research in nine countries, he hit the road by working on oral narratives, letters, artifacts and his first-hand experience across eight Western African countries that offered a new lens to the readers about the multicultural kingdoms that were economically stronger, trading across the West in various currencies.
Toby Green is a senior lecturer at King's College, London. He received a prize money worth £25000 for his contribution in shaping the cultural existence worldwide. His work has been translated into 12 languages. Highly acclaimed work like 'The Inquisition:The Reign of Fear' and '
On panel, Professor Ash Amin was followed by historian and political scientist Professor Rana Mitter FBA; social anthropologist Dame Henrietta Moore FBA; cultural studies academic, writer and broadcaster Professor Patrick Wright FBA and author and broadcaster Madeleine Bunting.
Professor Ash Amin FBA said on behalf of the jury, “A Fistful of Shells is a treasure trove of a book. Truly ground-breaking, it draws on years of work to tell another story of pre-colonial West Africa, a continually ignored continent. It changed how the jury thought about Africa and helped us to better understand not just Africa but how the world is changing right now. Finally, a detailed history that few westerners know but all ought to. Quite simply, an eye-opener.“It was a very demanding task to separate the many merits of all the books on this years shortlist. Each one was the culmination of years of dedication and represents an illuminating contribution to global cultural understanding.”
The other books shortlisted were 'The Lies That Bind: Rethinking Identity' by Kwame Anthony Appiah; 'How the World Thinks: A Global History of Philosophy' by Julian Baggini; 'Maoism: A Global History' by Julia Lovell; 'Remnants of Partition: 21 Objects from a Continent Divided' by Anchal Malhotra and 'Latinx:The New Force in American Politics and Culture' by Ed Morales. All of them were highly applauded for their respective work.
