
# Gary Lineker 'confirms' Ian Wright is heading to the I'm A Celebrity jungle

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:34:50+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/gary-lineker-confirms-ian-wright-20800915)

Gary Lineker appeared to confirm Ian Wright as one of the celebrity contestants heading for the I'm A Celebrity jungle on last night's Match of The Day.
Host Gary mercilessly teased his co-star Ian with a series of jungle related puns during the broadcast, causing him to cackle in delight.
Ian is under obligation not to confirm or deny rumours he'll be joining Ant and Dec on the ITV entertainment show, though he has been rumoured since June.
Cheeky Gary began by quizzing Ian on where he will be later month, with the series returning on November 17.
Gary then asked him about 'passing all the trials' and said: "You all right Ian? I'm not bugging you?"
A not too subtle Gary then remarked how Norwich City had 'come out of the jungle that is the Championship,' - causing Ian to burst into laughter.
At the end of the show, Gary told viewers: "Wrighty's off to eat leaves."
And fans watching at home took Gary's jibes as a sure fire confirmation they will be seeing former football ace Ian Wright in aUS.
"Gary lineker just confirmed Ian Wright is going in," tweeted one.
"Gary Lineker confirming Ian Wright will be going on I’m A Celebrity?? If so, think he will be favourite to win," agreed another.
While a third laughed: "Gary Lineker teasing Ian Wright by making low-key jungle references is absolutely hilarious. Wright almost burst out laughing at that last one."
Rumoured to be joining Ian in the jungle is Caitlyn Jenner.
Caitlyn, 70, is said to have agreed a staggering £500,000 fee in one of the highest salaries ever paid.
The reality TV star is reportedly fly out to Australia for the ITV series ahead of the first episode airing on Sunday 17 November.
I'm A Celeb bosses have gone all out to get the world's most famous transgender woman and will be hoping she lets slip some Kardashian secrets.
The big money is set to join Ant McPartlin and Dec Donnelly in the jungle - and will come face to face with snakes, spiders and rats.
