
# ‘Small Business of the Year’ award goes to Today’s Sweet Cakery

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Stettler Independent](https://www.stettlerindependent.com/news/small-business-of-the-year-award-goes-to-todays-sweet-cakery/)

By Jessica Jones
For the Independent
Today’s Sweet Cakery is the recipient of a sweet award, being named Small Business of the Year in the 2019 Stettler Business and Citizenship Awards.
The growing coffee shop and bakery, located in the Stettler Mall (6600 50th Avenue), opened on Aug. 9th, 2018. Today’s Sweet also runs the Sweet Shack at West Stettler Park in the summer months.
Owners Cody and Eva Borek are “shocked” and “really excited” about the recognition.
“Stettler has such an incredibly diverse business community and to be recognized as the 2019 Small Business of the Year is truly humbling,” they said.
Amongst Today’s Sweet’s offerings of delectable, exquisitely-decorated cakes and specialty drinks, such as an apple pie latte, the shop is also a great place to stop for lunch for a soup and sandwich.
Today’s Sweet also partners with Sweet Capone’s selling its cannolis in exchange for the sale of its macarons and cannolis.
“Our customers are the happiest customers around and we are so fortunate to make friends with them and learn about peoples’ days; it’s been real special for our family,” Eva said.
Today’s Sweet Cakery was also nominated as Small Business of the Year by “working hard to help revitalize the Stettler Mall.”
Cody, who has grown up in Stettler, says when they were looking for locations to set up the business, he was reminded of spending time as a kid at the mall.
“It just brought me back,” he explained. “When I was a kid, the mall was a really popular place, it was a hub of Stettler so I thought, well, let’s see if we can help them bring the mall back to its glory days.”
The Boreks are thankful to the community and want to continue to give back when they can.
“It is really neat to see the support from the community,” Cody said.
“I see people I have grown up with and admire, from old teachers, and business owners, people I have acted with … it’s just really neat to see the support Stettler has for its small businesses. When people choose us as a small coffee shop, it is really special.”
