
# WhatsApp's new feature is perfect if you're always being added to annoying group chats

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/whatsapps-new-feature-perfect-youre-20817543)

Whether it’s ‘Family Chat’ or ‘Carol’s Hen Do’, many WhatsApp users find themselves constantly being added to annoying new groups.
But the days of having to mute such chats could soon be a thing of the past, thanks to WhatsApp’s latest feature.
The app has rolled out new ways for users to stop people adding them to group chats without their permission.
In a blog announcing the update, a spokesperson for WhatsApp explained: “As people turn to groups for important conversations, users have asked for more control over their experience.
“Today, we're introducing a new privacy setting and invite system to help you decide who can add you to groups.”
 
The new permissions can be enabled in the Settings section of the app, then Account > Privacy > Groups.
There, you’ll find three options - Everyone, My Contacts, or My Contacts Except.
My Contacts means only users you have in your address book can add you to a group, while My Contacts Except lets you pinpoint particular users who you’d prefer were unable to add you.
WhatsApp added: “In those cases, an admin who can’t add you to a group will be prompted to send a private invite through an individual chat, giving you the choice of joining the group.
“You'll have three days to accept the invite before it expires.”
The update is available from today on both iOS and Android.
