
# Lagos Int’ Trade Fair: Japan showcases 37 brands, seeks collaboration with Nigerian firms 

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:12:46+00:00**

Author: **Chidinma Nwagbara**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/06/lagos-int-trade-fair-japan-showcases-37-brands-seeks-collaboration-with-nigerian-firms/)

The trade relation between Nigeria and Japan is taking a good shape, as Japan is showcasing 37 firms at the ongoing Lagos International Trade Fair. The Asian country has renewed interest in collaborating with Nigerian firms to accelerate growth in the domestic economy.
The Commissioner/Managing Director of Japan External Trade Organisation (JETRO), Shigeyo Nishizawa made known that Japan wants deeper trade and investment with Africa’s biggest market and had asked the private sector in both countries to exploit opportunities inherent in their relationship.
“The Nigerian government is trying but has its challenges. However, private companies in Nigeria have sufficient buying power to collaborate with Japanese firms in improving the Nigerian market,” Nishizawa said.
Brands at the fair: When Nairametrics visited the Japanese Pavillion at the fair, brands like Honda, Yamaha, Mitsubishi, Toyota, Isuzu and Suzuki, Canon, Sharp and Brother, Plascon Paint and Alteco adhesive were being exhibited by the distributors.
Other big names such as Briscoe Nigeria plc, Olam Sanyo Foods, Tomoe engineering, and Ajinomoto were also seen showcasing Japanese products in their stalls.

        [READ MORE: 
        
          Lagos International Trade Fair to get permanent site soon, Sanwo-Olu vows]
        
      
The Japanese pavilion also featured financial services firms like Double Feather Partners and IT companies with innovative products like SNRI.
The synergy between the Japanese and Nigerian businesses is also very visible as their SATO collaboration is making social impact at the fair. The introduction of SATO helps to make Nigeria open defecation-free through its affordable, smart, plastic toilets that can be mounted over pit latrines to create more hygienic toilets.
Also, the “Made in Japan, made for women” corner exhibiting products and services help women access more fashionable and convenient items including cosmetics and hair wigs. The fair offers Nigerians the opportunity to purchase authentic hair products like X-pression, made from raw materials supplied by Toyokalon, at affordable rates and sometimes even made on their hair for free.
