
# Belfast doctor who killed mother to serve minimum of eight years

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:08:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/07/news/doctor-who-killed-mother-to-serve-minimum-of-eight-years-1759379/)

A Belfast doctor who admitted murdering his mother will serve a minimum of eight years in prison before he is eligible for parole.
Declan O'Neill (29) admitted killing his 51-year-old mother Anne at her parents' house in Ardmore Avenue in Finaghy around 7am on Saturday October 21 2017.
In September he was sentence to life imprisonment.
Last month a court was told that both the deceased's daughter and mother had asked for mercy for the 29-year old defendant.
Both women - the sister and grandmother of O'Neill - described how the now deceased Anne O'Neill had a very controlling personality, and how O'Neill and his sister grew up with an abusive and bullying mother in a home which had no beds, bare walls and very little furniture.
It also emerged that throughout his childhood and into adult life O'Neill was subjected to "relentless emotional abuse by his mother" and also suffered manipulation, intimidation, bullying and threats by her.
At the scene of her death, Mrs O'Neill was found lying face down at the bottom of some steps leading to a terraced area. Also at the scene was "copious amounts of blood" as well as hair and two of her teeth.
Pathologist Prof Jack Crane told a court hearing: "This woman died as a result of injuries sustained in an assault.
"She had been struck repeatedly on the head with a heavy blunt object and the back of her head had been pummelled against the edge of the tiles steps."
Her son had attacked her with a chisel.
Medical assistance was given at the scene and Mrs O'Neill was pronounced dead at 7.50am. A post mortem concluded she died from a bleed to the brain with multiple fractures to her skull.
O'Neill had denied killing his mother until the 14th interview with police, when he broke down and said: "I didn't mean to, I just couldn't take any more.
"You don't know what it's like. Every day thousands of pounds debt in my name. She keep taking more money off me. Wants all my time. We (he and his partner) are not allowed any time together."
While Mrs O'Neill's mother said in her statement it was her belief her grandson didn't intend to murder his mother and that his "mind must have just snapped", the defendant's sister said: "I do accept Declan has done wrong and he had no right to kill my mother, but I have no anger or resentment towards him."
Saying the two children "lived in almost third world conditions" including sleeping on mattresses and keeping their possessions in cardboard boxes, defence barrister Greg Berry QC told a court that as youngsters they were not allowed to have any friends.
He also revealed that when O'Neill went to work in his role as a doctor, his mother would phone the hospital up to 15 times per shift.
