
# Indeed: Searches for BTC Jobs Drop 53%, Employer Demand Up 26% in 2019

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:55:00+00:00**

Author: **Helen Partz**

Original: [Cointelegraph](https://cointelegraph.com/news/searches-for-btc-jobs-drop-53-employer-demand-up-26-in-2019-indeed)

Searches for crypto-related jobs have dropped 53%, while the share of job postings in the industry has surged 26% in 2019, new research says.
On Nov. 7, Texas-based recruitment platform Indeed.com has published a new research devoted to the analysis and prospects of the job market in blockchain and crypto industry.
To deliver the report, Indeed analyzed the percentage change in the share of job postings and share of job searches per million for roles related to Bitcoin (BTC), cryptocurrencies and blockchain from 2015 to 2019.
As such, Indeed has recorded a major discrepancy between growth rates of job seekers and employer interest from 2015 to September 2019. According to the company, in the four-year period, the share of these jobs per million skyrocketed by 1,457%, while the share of searches per million surged 469%.

        Job seeker and employer interest in BTC roles over time. Source: Indeed
      
According to the research, the recorded decline in interest in crypto-related jobs took place after the bull run of 2017 reversed to a bear market in 2018. Prior to that bear market, job seeker interest had been notably outpacing demand within year-over-year periods from 2015 to 2016 and from 2016 to 2017.

        Annual percentage change in the share of BTC roles since 2015. Source: Indeed
      
Tech roles that make the top five crypto jobs include software engineer, senior software engineer, software architect, full stack developer and front end developer, the report notes. According to Indeed, two Big Four accounting firms such as Deloitte and Ernst & Young are among the top 15 employers in the industry alongside global tech giant IBM as well as American multinational investment bank JPMorgan Chase.
According to recent research, about half of all employees in the blockchain industry currently work at cryptocurrency exchanges.
