
# Arsenal player ratings from Vitoria draw as Kieran Tierney catches the eye in drab affair

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:48:52+00:00**

Author: **Neil McLeman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/neil-mcleman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-player-ratings-vitoria-draw-20826947)

Arsenal were denied victory in stoppage time of their Europa League clash in Portugal against Vitoria.
Shkodran Mustafi thought he had sealed the three points for the Gunners as he headed home in the second half but Bruno Duarte's late acrobatic effort meant the shares were spoiled.
Arsenal finally made the breakthrough which the game so badly needed with nine minutes remaining.
Pepe curled in an inviting cross from a set-piece which found Germany international unmarked from six yards from goal to head home.
But the celebrations were short-lived as Duarte found the net - and Vitoria twice went close to snatching victory in the remaining moments.
Here's how Arsenal rated in Guimaraes...

        Martinez 5
      
Argentine cup keeper made several solid saves after shipping five at Anfield but was beaten late as he flapped at a cross

        Mustafi 5
      
Booked early on for pulling back Davidson. The German stayed on pitch to head 80th-minute goal

        Sokratis 5
      
Steady performance in the middle of the Arsenal back three. Good battle with Bruno Duarte

        Holding 5
      
Played on left of defensive three in first start as Arsenal captain. Harsh second-half booking after collision with Evangelista

        Maitland-Niles 4
      
Deployed on right side of midfield but was pushed further back by Davidson as game wore on

        Willock 4
      
Sat in central midfield alongside Ceballos and then Guendouzi. And was then subbed off

        Ceballos 5
      
First-half nutmeg on Vitoria centre-forward Duarte was highlight of Arsenal's afternoon. Subbed after break

        Tierney 7
      
The £25m defender was excused from Scotland duty because of an “ongoing issue” but played all 90 minutes on left side of midfield four – his fifth game in a row

        Pepe 6
      
Two free kicks in first game and assist from another free kick for Mustafi's winner. Crunched by Rafa Soares in first half

        Saka 4
      
First-half cross from byline saw Holding head over. Otherwise anonymous down the left and subbed off

        Martinelli 4
      
Brazilian cup specialist, who has scored seven goals this season, was starved of service up front
