
# Outrage as cattle skulls found dumped next to bins in Strathaven

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:15:01+00:00**

Author: **Fraser N Wilson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-n-wilson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/outrage-cattle-skulls-found-dumped-20814401)

Residents in Strathaven have been left sickened after cattle skulls were dumped next to a bin.
The extreme fly-tipping saw two skulls ditched along with household waste just outside the town.
Doreen Dodds made the gruesome discovery near Caldermill and spoke with the News about the issue.
She said: “These are definitely not fake.
“They looked like the heads of bulls, with big thick horns. They looked rotten.
“But there they were, in amongst household rubbish and all. I don’t know what’s going on, but it’s pretty scary.”
A volunteer with Cat Concern and Cat Action, Doreen says there is a larger problem with animal abuse in the South Lanarkshire area.
She added: “I saw a grouse just dumped recently and a cat at the side of the road.
“Then there was the four starved puppies cruelly dumped at the side of a road in Dungavel.
“There’s a real problem here.”
Reacting to Doreen’s post on Facebook, Peter Kinnon wrote: “What an absolute disgrace this is, and fly-tipping in general.
“Our local MP and SLC need to look at this urgently, and initiate the appropriate actions and penalties against all those involved.”
Claire Shearer added: “Shocking, disgusting – also shows that the bins are not emptied enough.”
And Carol Brogan gave credence to some of Doreen’s concerns about a bigger issue.
She wrote online: “That is really shocking.
“I was out running last week in Strathaven and ran past a bin bag full of game birds at the side of the road on the stretch of road from Sandford to Strathaven.”
Doreen – who works at the Royal Infirmary Hospital – reported the matter to the SSPCA who said they were looking into the matter.
Scottish SPCA inspector Dawn Robertson told us: ‘We have been made aware of this incident and are investigating.
“Anyone with any information is urged to contact our confidential animal helpline on 03000 999 999.”
