
# UK weather forecast: Britain to be lashed with rain with yellow warnings in place

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:33:11+00:00**

Author: **Elaine McCahill, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/elaine-mccahill/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/uk-weather-forecast-britain-lashed-20800710)

Britain is set to be lashed with rain today as the Met Office warns of flooding in places.
Two yellow warnings for rain have been issued in Scotland and are in place until midday.
Persistent and heavy rains from yesterday and overnight are likely to cause disruption.
However, conditions are expected to improve across the rest of the UK compared to yesterday.
Strong winds battered the UK on Saturday with one woman being killed by a falling tree.
 
The woman, in her 60s, was killed after a tree fell on her car in Dorset on Saturday, amid gusts of more than 80mph which buffeted parts of the South West.
The Met Office issued a number of rain and wind warnings across the south of England and Wales on Saturday, while a band of rain moved across northern Scotland.
A forecaster said the high winds, which saw trains and ferries disrupted, would calm down overnight and into Sunday morning.
Northern Ireland and western Scotland will be the clearest and driest spots overnight and some areas could see frost on Sunday morning, with temperatures in Belfast falling to five degrees.
Forecaster Craig Snell said there will "still be areas of rain around" during the day on Sunday, but added: "Winds will not be as strong as today."
 
However, any Sunday morning sunshine will give way to showers in the afternoon.
The Met Office’s Greg Dewhurst said:  “Continuation of heavy rain throughout the day.
“With the exception of Shetland, here we will see some sunshine through the day.”
Temperatures will remain average for this time of year with the mercury hitting between 12C and 14C.
The Met Office said gusts of 83mph were recorded in Plymouth and 82mph in Culdrose, Cornwall, on Saturday.
The strongest gust of wind recorded was 109mph at the Needles on the Isle of Wight.
A mixture of areas of rain or showers and sunny spells. The rain most persistent over eastern and northern Scotland. Driest weather over east Wales and the Midlands after early fog or low cloud lifts. Windy in the far north.
Further rain for eastern and northern Scotland, with some heavy showers affecting coastal parts of Wales and southern England. Clear spells inland.
Rain, heavy at times, and strong easterly winds for eastern Scotland. Elsewhere, a mix of sunshine and showers, these heavy in places with possible thunder near coasts in the south.
Turning colder with wintry showers on Scottish hills Tuesday. Widespread frost early Wednesday with further rain arriving from the west later, this becoming persistent and heavy in places into Thursday.
