
# Twitter reacts to absence of “Dhoni Review System” as Rishabh Pant messes up two reviews in one over

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:29:11+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/03/twitter-reacts-to-absence-of-dhoni-review-system-as-rishabh-pant-messes-up-two-reviews-in-one-over?utm_medium=rss)


        Rishabh Pant is definitely not in the league of wicket-keepers that MS Dhoni had literally been the father of. However, he had a chance to redeem himself but didn’t help his cause by messing up two reviews in one over - one of which could have resulted in a dismissal had he been careful.
      
Rishabh Pant is not known for his agile keeping as much as he is known for his chatter behind the stumps. Having been behind the pecking order in Tests, he had an opportunity delivered in a platter to silence some critics, but he hardly did anything worthwhile to help his case. On the last ball of the 10th over, Yuzvendra Chahal bowled a slider to Soumya Sarkar which, after coming in with the angle, kept low. Sarkar shuffled across but before offering a shot, was beaten on the inside edge. There was a loud appeal from the Indians but the umpire was hardly interested.While Chahal and Rohit Sharma were unsure about the dismissal, they enquired with Pant as the keeper was standing close to the stumps. It seemed the local wicket-keeper was very much interested in going upstairs and as he convinced the duo, everyone’s eyes were on the big-screen. However, what flashed on the screen was beyond imaginable - there was a flat line on the UltraEdge. If that was not enough, the replay of the third delivery later suggested that India had messed things then too. It was three reds when Mushfiqur Rahim missed a nudge on the leg-side. The worst thing for India was they didn’t even discuss for a DRS, and even sadder that Pant didn’t approach the captain too.
Here is how Twitter reacted to the incident:

        MS Dhoni chants break out at Delhi!
      
