
# MotoGP 2019: Maverick Vinales dominates the Malaysian GP

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:09:45+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/motogp-2019-maverick-vinales-dominates-the-malaysian-gp/)

Spaniard Maverick Vinales (Monster Energy Yamaha MotoGP) was well placed to win the Malaysian GP at the Sepang International Circuit, after a second position in qualifying, and led the race from lights to flag. The dominating victory makes it his second win of the season. Pole-sitter Fabio Quartararo (Petronas Yamaha) finished in seventh.
In second place, with a miracle charge up the field from 11th on the grid, was the 2019 MotoGP World Champion Marc Marquez (Repsol Honda), who finished the race a little over 3 seconds behind Vinales. Marquez gained second position before the first lap of the Malaysian GP was complete, making full use of a great start to join the pack at the front at Turn 1 itself.
With this second place, he has already set a new record (395 points) for the most championship points scored in a single season, beating previous record holder Jorge Lorenzo's 383 point tally. Marquez sealed his championship victory at the last round in Thailand.
Rounding off the podium was Andrea Dovizioso (Ducati Corse) who had qualified tenth on the grid. The Italian rider battled it out with local favourite, Valentino Rossi (Monster Energy Yamaha MotoGP) right until the close of the race, with barely three tenths of a second separating the two at the chequered flag. The MotoGP circus will move to Valencia for the last round of the season.
