
# Pep Guardiola admits Ederson is injury doubt for Man City's clash at Liverpool

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:50:50+00:00**

Author: **David McDonnell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-mcdonnell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/pep-guardiola-admits-ederson-major-20829175)

Pep Guardiola admitted Ederson is a major doubt for Sunday's title showdown at Liverpool – after a night of drama and chaos for Manchester City.
Claudio Bravo, who came on for injured goalkeeper Ederson for the second-half, was sent off with nine minutes left, after being shown a straight red for a professional foul.
City ended the game with 10 men and defender Kyle Walker in goal, with the draw meaning Guardiola's side were forced to wait to confirm their place in the Champions League last-16.
But the injury to first-choice keeper Ederson is Guardiola's biggest headache, with the City boss admitting he and his medical staff will not take a risk with his No.1.
Asked if Ederson would be fit to play at Anfield, Guardiola said: “Honestly, right now, I don't know. It was a muscular problem.
“He felt uncomfortable in the last few minutes of the first-half. We will see how he is tomorrow.
"It was muscular, in front here [thigh]. We want to try with him, but we're not going to take a risk.
“Xabi Mancisidor, our goalkeeper coach, suggested Kyle go in goal for his courage, because he's quick.
“We're lucky we only conceded one shot on target when he was in goal, but congratulations for the courage and desire to help the team in this position.”
 
Guardiola admitted Bravo deserved his red card, but said he would have no qualms playing him at Anfield in Ederson is not fit.
"It's a red card,” said Guardiola. “It was given so it’s a red card. But Claudio is ready. He's an incredible, experienced professional. He's ready.
“If Ederson is ready, he's going to play. If not, we'll play Claudio, We trust him. Why should I doubt any players I have in my squad?"
Walker, whose first act was to save a free-kick - at the second attempt - was asked if he volunteered to go in goal. “I think it was a bit of both,” said the defender.
“Sometimes I criticise our goalkeepers for not catching the ball in training but, as I found tonight, sometimes you have to take two touches.
“We came here looking for a point or a victory, but they’re a very good side.”
