
# All About Keanu Reeves' Girlfriend Alexandra Grant, His Longtime Close Friend

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:28:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29695865/who-is-alexandra-grant-keanu-reeves-girlfriend/?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM)

For the first time in over a decade, Keanu Reeves made a major red carpet debut with a date. Reeves took Alexandra Grant to the LACMA Art + Film Gala on November 2. They walked the red carpet holding hands, sparking romance rumors. People reports that yes, the two are dating and have been for months.
Grant isn't a new presence in Reeves' life though; she's been there for years. And this isn't the first time he held her hand on a red carpet either this year.
Here, what to know about Reeves' girlfriend.
Their first project together was published then. Grant illustrated Reeves' book Ode to Happiness.
A source told People on November 5 that “Keanu wants to openly share his life with her. He is extremely happy and grateful to have Alex in his life. [They] started dating earlier this year, but have wanted to keep it quiet.”
People notes that Grant illustrated two books that Reeves wrote: his 2011 book Ode to Happiness and his 2016 book Shadows. They also founded a publishing company together, X Artists' Books in 2017.
According to the company's site, "XAB is a small publisher of thoughtful, high-quality, artist-centered books that fit within and between genres. Our books are works of art; portals to imagined worlds; treasured companions; the fabric of a community. We love the same things about our books as we do about our friends: generosity, open-heartedness, intelligence, mystery, style. They bring sustenance and shift realities. They may occasionally break your heart."
In June, the two attended Saint Laurent's fashion show together, and they held hands(!!):
In May, they attended the MOCA Benefit:
Reeves and Grant were first photographed together at the UNAIDS Galaat Design Miami/Basel in Switzerland.
According to People, the two were photographed at Giorgio Baldi last month. They "arrived together in Reeve’s Porsche and spent three hours inside the restaurant conversing and sharing a meal." They left together.
As People pointed out, the artist shared photos of her Instagram showing herself presiding over her friend's ceremony in Brooklyn.
On her artist site's bio, Grant wrote that her living abroad in Mexico, France, and Spain in her childhood and adolescence has strongly inspired her language-based work. Per her bio, "Some of the basic questions that fuel her practice are: How do the languages we speak and the images we see form how we think and exchange ideas? How can artists and writers work to create and influence culture in an increasingly technology-driven world?"
She told LA Weekly in May, of why she lives in that city, "I grew up in part in Mexico City, Washington, DC, and Paris, moving between languages and cultures. Los Angeles felt like home from the moment I first arrived in 1995, especially the diversity of people, idioms, foods, and plants (like jacaranda and bougainvillea). There’s an incredible work ethic here—many people are creative and entrepreneurial. Having friends who are working hard practicing their crafts—whether it’s set design, publishing, or acting—is very inspiring."
