
# Rulani Talks Pirates Injuries And Results Over Performances

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:41:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/rulani-talks-pirates-injuries-and-results-over-performances/666463)

Orlando Pirates coach, Rulani Mokwena, has spoken about the injuries in the Bucs camp as well as Pirates focusing on results ahead of performances. 

        Read: Relegation Scare, New Face Spotted At Chippa  
      
Speaking to SuperSport TV ahead of the side’s vital 1-0 win against Highlands Park on Tuesday, the 32-year-old coach explained that many of the changes he is making to the line-up are due to players only just returning from injury. 
“We’ve had a lot of injuries. We don’t complain at Pirates. We’re getting some of our players back – Dube is back, Maela is back, Musa Nyatama has resumed training, Mulenga only resumed training a couple of weeks ago and is still catching up with match fitness and Shonga is getting his way back into the team after also struggling from injury. Ben [Motshwari] is back.” 

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
Speaking about the side’s performances and results, the young coach had the following to say, “If there was column for remarks and performances on the results, we’d be satisfied, I think we’d be on top of the log but that’s not how football works unfortunately. At this moment, the performance does not speak the same language as the results and we can’t be satisfied. We are a big club and we know that once a big club starts to accept performances ahead of results, then it loses its status as a big club.”

        
          Will Pirates beat Chiefs on Saturday? Let us know by commenting below! 
        
      
