
# Disney CEO Says Deadpool and R-Rated Content Will Stay on Hulu

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:15:34+00:00**

Author: **Robert Workman**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/471296-disney-ceo-says-deadpool-and-r-rated-content-will-stay-on-hulu)

The Disney+ service is set to launch next week with a number of new shows and older favorites from the company’s library. Fortunately, Disney CEO Bob Iger confirmed to Bloomberg that Deadpool and other mature programming will still have a home even if it’s not on Disney+.
According to the report, “Edgier Fox fare, such as TV’s Family Guy and the exuberantly R-rated Deadpool films, will remain on Hulu.”
Disney acquired a controlling interest in Hulu from Comcast earlier this summer. It should serve as a strong secondary service to Disney+. In fact, Disney currently offers subscription plans that include both, along with ESPN+ for $12.99.
Iger didn’t break down specifics as to what other programming would make its way to Hulu. But the R-rated X-Men movie Logan seems like a safe bet, along with other Fox programming that doesn’t fit the Disney mold. For another example, Die Hard, will probably make for great Christmas viewing on Hulu.
When Disney+ launches on November 12, subscribers should get a better idea of how programming will be lined up. In the meantime, it’s great to see that Deadpool still has a streaming service to call home.
What do you think about Disney dividing up programs between two streaming services? Let us know in the comments below!

        Recommended Reading: 
        
          Deadpool: Assassin
        
      

        We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program. This affiliate advertising program is designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
      
