
# 'A magician' - The Birmingham City starting XI Pep Clotet is expected to pick against Cardiff

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:47:10+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/birmingham-city-team-news-cardiff-17185137)

Birmingham City travel to Cardiff City this weekend searching for a third Championship win on the bounce.
Successive victories over Blackburn Rovers and Luton Town have put Pep Clotet’s side to within touching distance of the play-offs – and even the automatic spots – although there is plenty of traffic to bypass in between.
Cardiff, meanwhile, will be keen to muster a response to last weekend's derby day defeat to Swansea City.
Here is the Blues XI we expect to see on Saturday:
Lee Camp never made an appearance for Cardiff despite spending over a year contracted to the club but he'll make his 61st in a Blues shirt tomorrow.
The 35-year-old has come in for criticism at points throughout the season but as things stand, the position is very much his, and he made a decent save to deny Luton’s James Collins last weekend.
In front of him, there’s little debate to be had. Maxime Colin is in superb form at the moment, Harlee Dean and Marc Roberts have struck up a partnership and Maxime Pedersen popped up with a goal against Luton.
 
At the risk of sending you to sleep, it’s more of the same here too. Dan Crowley is looking every inch a Championship magician at the moment and the understanding he has with Colin is growing with every match.
Ivan Sunjic’s suspension for the midweek clash against Blackburn 10 days ago meant David Davis stepped in and he did well. But there was little doubt that the Croatian would return against Luton such has been the way he has quickly adapted to life in England.
His partner in crime has been Jude Bellingham in recent weeks and the 16-year-old has already robbed plenty of senior opposition players of their dignity with quick turns and sharp passes. With no midweek game to have recovered from there’s no reason he won’t keep his place in the side.
Out on the left – and like Crowley, operating almost as an inverted winger – we come to Fran Villalba who is looking more assured at this level every time he steps onto the pitch.
This is your round up of all things Birmingham City; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Blues throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest BCFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Blues reporter Brian Dick on Twitter, and his email address is Brian.Dick@reachplc.com
 
For anybody still reading, you know what’s coming next. Lukas Jutkiewicz grabbed the winning goal last time out and could easily have had two more, while the decision to play Kerim Mrabti with him was the right one from Clotet.
All that means it’s unchanged, sorry folks!
 

        Shane’s Blues XI: Camp; Colin, Roberts, Dean, Pedersen; Crowley, Sunjic, Bellingham, Villalba; Mrabti, Jutkiewicz.
      
