
# Couple Steal Cat Thinking It’s Missing Pet And The Outcome Is Hilarious

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:48:07+00:00**

Author: **Emma Rosemurgey**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/viral/couple-steal-cat-thinking-its-missing-pet-and-the-outcome-is-hilarious/)


        Social media can be a powerful tool when it comes to spreading the word about important things, whether it’s crowdfunding for charity or searching for a missing pet.
      
Advertisements
So when Sophie Johnson took to Facebook to appeal for helpers in searching for her missing cat, Lentil, Lauren Faulkner and her boyfriend Charlie Allan were more than happy to oblige.
Sophie pleaded for help when someone reported seeing a ‘really muddy’ cat who looked a lot like Lentil in Prestonpans, Edinburgh, but she wasn’t able to get there and have a look for herself.
Advertisements
On seeing her post, Lauren and Charlie decided to be good Samaritans by going out looking for Lentil themselves, and they were overjoyed when they spotted a beautiful rag doll cat who matched Lentil’s description.
‘MATE, WE’VE F*CKING GOT HIM,’ Lauren texted Sophie, telling her the good news.
‘Omg, hahahahaha send pics,’ Sophie replied. ‘Omg I’m shaking, OMG is it actually him? I can’t believe it man.’
However, things took a turn for the worse when a woman approached Lauren and Charlie, who were putting the cat in their car, to tell them they were actually abducting the wrong cat.
Advertisements

        Lauren told UNILAD:
      
After realising their mistake, Lauren took to Twitter to share their hilarious mishap, telling her followers:
As if that wasn’t funny enough, one of Lauren’s followers shared a screenshot of a message from the owner of Lentil’s lookalike, and it’s fair to say she was less than amused by the couple’s mishap.
Advertisements

        Writing on a local Prestonpan Facebook page, the owner wrote: 
      

        Fortunately, Lauren could see the funny side, explaining:
      

        The makeup artist added:
      
