
# SUGGESTED STARTING XI: Manchester United face Partizan in Europa League

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:37:41+00:00**

Author: **Ollie Slack**

Original: [Red Devil Armada](https://reddevilarmada.com/2019/11/07/suggested-starting-xi-manchester-united-face-partizan-in-europa-league-ole-gunnar-solskjaer-brandon-williams-mason-greenwood-james-garner/)

Manchester United will be hoping to clinch their third win of this season’s Europa League campaign if they can beat Partizan today. The Red Devils’ sit top of Group L having won two games and drawn one.
Solskjaer’s side travelled to Serbia last month and defeated Partizan 1-0. Now the team from Belgrade will arrive at Old Trafford with revenge on their minds.
Here is my suggested starting XI:
David de Gea can enjoy Thursday nights off for some time, until at least the knockout stages anyway. Sergio Romero should get the chance to show once again why he is regarded as one of the best back-up keepers in the world.
With another important Premier League fixture this weekend, Aaron Wan-Bissaka deserves a rest. Therefore, with Diogo Dalot injured and Timothy Fosu-Mensah still just posting training videos on social media, Ashley Young will have to start at right-back.
Harry Maguire and Marcos Rojo make up the central defensive partnership, complemented by the very talented Brandon Williams at left-back. The 19-year old has impressed this season so far, with many now suggesting he should start regularly in the Premier League.
Another young United talent gets a start in my starting XI tonight – James Garner, who showed glimpses of his talent in Belgrade last month, deserves to keep his place. Alongside Scott McTominay, Garner should have plenty of the ball and will be tasked with trying to split the Partizan block with his passing.
Welshman Daniel James looks as though he will be given the night off in order to recharge his batteries ahead of the weekend. James’ has featured in 18 games for both club and country this campaign and Solskjaer is keen to give him some time away from the pitch.
If United are to win tonight, they must take their early chances. Against a side who will be very difficult to breakdown, an experienced forward line is what I believe Solskjaer should opt for. A combination of Jesse Lingard, Juan Mata and Anthony Martial provide that, with the exuberance of Greenwood also.

        Romero
      

        Young, Maguire, Rojo, Williams
      

        Garner, McTominay
      

        Lingard, Mata, Greenwood
      

        Martial
      

        Do you agree with my starting XI for tonight’s game against Partizan in the Europa League? Post your team in the comments section below!
      
