
# Karnataka HC stays NCLT proceedings against Flipkart

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TNN**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/ktaka-hc-stays-nclt-move-against-flipkart/articleshow/71946633.cms)

BENGALURU: Walmart-owned Flipkart said the Karnataka high court has stayed insolvency proceedings against the company filed by a supplier in the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT).
Mumbai-based CloudWalker Streaming Technologies, which sells LED TV sets, had filed the insolvency plea to recover damages from Flipkart. CloudWalker is seeking recovery of almost Rs 27 crore from Flipkart, according to online portal Bar & Bench. The portal said the original dispute is based out of an agreement between Flipkart and CloudWalker and the insolvency plea was filed by the latter accusing Flipkart of ‘avoiding deliveries’ and later offering to buy products at a discounted price.
“This is to clarify that Flipkart India is not undergoing corporate insolvency resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC)), 2016. A company petition was filed against Flipkart under section 9 of the IBC before the NCLT. The NCLT had orally dictated its order on October 24, 2019. However, the said order was only made available on November 5, 2019,” Flipkart said in a statement.
The company then immediately proceeded to file a writ petition before the high court (Karnataka) seeking relief against the order of October 24, and the court granted a stay on October 25.
