
# Tottenham's struggle a mix of unhappy players, tactics and Mauricio Pochettino's waning message

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Keble**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/tottenhams-struggle-mix-unhappy-players-20792610)

As Tottenham sink gradually deeper into their malaise, as angst infects the players with heavy limbs and heavy minds, we’re left wondering whether Spurs’ developing crisis is the result of emotional exhaustion or tactical stagnation.
The bad news for Mauricio Pochettino is it’s both.
A valid criticism of most tactical analysis is that it ignores the human element.
But psychology and tactics are inextricably linked; the ability to follow complex positional instructions or enact furiously energetic direction requires an elasticity – of mind and body – that only comes with confidence.
Spurs are anything but confident.
Years of brinkmanship from Daniel Levy has severely impacted player recruitment and the squad has gone stale, that summer void in 2018 finally taking its toll after a delayed reaction; new signings take roughly 12 months or so to acclimatise.
No wonder it’s taken this long for the stagnation to hit.
And Levy’s love of the game – of wheeling and dealing, that is – affects player sales as much as it does recruitment.
Attempting to squeeze every penny has left the team littered with players either already looking elsewhere as they run down their final year or playing through the knowledge Pochettino wanted them gone.
It’s a recipe for disunity, for an all-encompassing drama that ultimately impacts the club’s tactical strategy too – not least because when a squad age together their manager’s instructions gradually lose their impact.
When the demands are as intense, focused, and complicated as Pochettino’s, there can be no surprise that tactical coherence wanes as those messages, once cutting through the dressing room, now waft over heads.
The most important tactical problem at Spurs is the alarming drop-off in the intensity of their pressing.
This was once the hallmark of a Pochettino team, the epicentre of their overall strategy; to press high is to hound the opposition into errors and swarm them in wave after wave of attack.
Pochettino learnt his trade at Newell’s Old Boys from Marco Bielsa - his ‘football father’ and one of the most important figures in the formulation of the pressing game in modern football – and has installed the approach everywhere he has gone, gradually pushing players harder as he climbed the pyramid until, at Spurs, he began working with players talented and athletic enough to go all in.
The beauty of a good pressing game is its appearance of simplicity. At their peak, Spurs acted as a finely-tuned collective, ultra-compressed, pressing both man and space to shut down every angle and force a mistake.
The rewards were numerous: win the ball near the goal, and in space; win set-pieces; unsettle the opponent’s rhythm; and attack relentlessly until the other side collapses in exhaustion.
But these days it is Spurs who look jaded and easily overwhelmed, the pressing disappearing as their morale drains away.
If tactical strategy and mentality are symbiotic, then pressing is the ultimate example; withstanding pain, enjoying repetition, and trusting your team-mates are following behind are vital for the high press to flourish.
It also requires the right sort of player, which brings us onto the tactical concerns in the middle of the park. What Pochettino most obviously lacks is a defensive midfield player capable of screening his side’s attacks, not just winning the ball back but immediately feeding it forward.
It’s this latter quality in Fernandinho and Fabinho (at Manchester City and Liverpool respectively) that is so under-appreciated; pressing may start from the front, but without compression, coherence, and urgency in central midfield, it cannot last more than a couple of seconds.
Watch how Fabinho brushes aside an opposition player and then cuts the ball back where it came from, keeping Liverpool on the front foot.
That energy is precisely what Spurs lack, what makes them open to the counter-attack (therefore forcing them into a deeper shape, destroying the high-pressing game) and too sluggish in possession.
Harry Winks is generally Tottenham ’s deepest midfielder, and, while he is an excellent technician, Winks cannot help exert territorial pressure like the league’s best.
Ahead of him, Christian Eriksen clearly isn’t fully present and Dele Alli is out of form.
Moussa Sissoko and Tanguy Ndombele are box-to-box players, but shuttling on each side of midfield they aren’t functioning in that crucial central column.
Reinforcements are needed - as if anyone needed telling. They could do with new full-backs, too.
Another crucial component of the Bielsa school of thought is the precise placement of the attacking lines. It is the Leeds United manager’s influence that has led to the modern focus on the half-spaces – the thin column of the pitch that runs between full-back and centre-back (where Kevin de Bruyne and David Silva play, for example).
Most big clubs, including Pochettino’s Spurs, aim to bunch their attacking players through the middle of the pitch, hence the Argentine’s use of inverted wingers when playing a 4-2-3-1, or his use of a diamond 4-4-2 with split strikers.
This inevitably sucks opposition defences inwards, creating narrow blockades that make for a messy, congested No.10 space.
That will sound familiar to anyone who has watched Spurs slog it out against Watford , Southampton , and Newcastle at the Tottenham Hotspur stadium this season.
The way to prevent it is with aggressive overlapping full-backs, the kind that were so prominent throughout the first few years of Pochettino’s reign.
A young Danny Rose and Kyle Walker bombing up and down caused mayhem, either because they relished wide open space on a narrow pitch or, if tracked, because they indirectly de-cluttered the half-spaces.
In their current guise, Rose and Serge Aurier are nowhere near as good. The latter’s defensive errors are a serious problem, but it’s in attack where the loss is felt most.
The knock-on effect of these three factors – pressing, central midfield, and at full-back – is Pochettino experimenting wildly in an attempt to fix things. He never used to change formation this much, never used to make such bold – or naïve – tactical decisions in key matches.
Take the defeat to Liverpool last weekend. Pochettino deployed a narrow 4-5-1 when out of possession in which the widest players, Eriksen and Heung-Min Son, left huge open spaces on the flanks for Liverpool’s full-backs to dominate.
At other times it’s been even weirder, such as a three-man central defence against low-scoring Watford that was never likely to work.
Pochettino remains a brilliant manager and Spurs still have the bones of an excellent team.
But as various tactical elements wane, each impacting the other in a vicious cycle, it looks as though everyone could do with a reset.
The only real question that needs answering is whether Pochettino has the drive to overhaul the squad; whether he has the emotional energy to revive his tactics.
