
# Trump Jr. says ‘JFK would be an alt-right, neo-Nazi terrorist’ to modern Democrats

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:19:12+00:00**

Author: **Mike Brest**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/trump-jr-says-jfk-would-be-an-alt-right-neo-nazi-terrorist-to-modern-democrats)

Donald Trump Jr. claimed that former President John F. Kennedy would be considered a part of the far-right based on his political ideology in comparison to the current state of the Democratic Party.
Trump Jr. made the assertion during a Tuesday morning appearance on Fox & Friends in a discussion about the political gridlock that has prevented issues like USMCA agreement that has not been voted on by Congress. He was also on the network to promote his new book, Triggered.
"The reality is, this isn't your grandfather’s Democrat Party. If you look at their party platform, it's not for working-class Americans. JFK would be an alt-right, Neo-Nazis terrorist according to them today," the president's son claimed.
"But it's also not your grandpa’s Republican Party," co-host Steve Doocy pushed back.
"I think it's changed," Trump Jr. countered. "Now, for the first time in 50 years, Republicans are actually fighting back. They’re not just taking the loss because the mainstream media does the pile-on. They’re not just taking the loss, because Hollywood and pop culture says you’re terrible people for having, for clinging to your guns, your bible, your religion, and all of those things. We said, hey, we have a fighter in the White House. We’re actually pushing back for the first time ever and making gains, which is incredible."
