
# Vaclav Hladky makes Rangers transfer claim as he sets Premier League target

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Graeme Macpherson**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-transfer-news/vaclav-hladky-makes-rangers-transfer-20816060)

Vaclav Hladky looks set to snub a potential move to Rangers for a long-term crack at the English Premier League, via the Championship.
St Mirren's No 1 claims talks have taken place with the Ibrox club but his preference is to head down south at the end of the season.
The Czech keeper has been in sensational form since signing for Saints in January and was the subject of a £200,000 bid from Azerbaijani champions Qarabag in the summer.
But Hladky wants to find a club in the English Championship and use it as a stepping stone to the Premier League.
He said: “Rangers are interested in me and some negotiations are under way. But playing in England is the big dream. The biggest dream is to play in the Premier League but that is a big jump.
“I know I will need to make another step first on the way. I’m not crazy enough to think I can go from St Mirren directly to the English top division. Going to the Championship would be ideal for me. That is preferable to staying in Scotland.”
Hladky hopes to have his future sorted by January so he can focus on keeping Saints in the league.
The stopper was the hero in the penalty shoot-out win over Dundee United in the relegation play-off last season and wants to do his bit again to keep Jim Goodwin’s men in the top flight.
 
He said: “This will be my last season with St Mirren. Negotiations with the club took place over the summer and autumn about a new contract. But we have agreed that my football goals are a little higher than here.
“There is still time to sort things out. But by January I would like to know where I will be playing next season so that I can fully focus on St Mirren and keeping them in the league again.
“I have felt great at this club from the first day with all the support they have given me. I am very happy here for now.”
