
# Xiaomi Mi Watch Is Here, And It Looks Like The Apple Watch

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:27:07+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/xiaomi-mi-watch-announced-with-apple-watch-design.html)

Following the announcement of the Mi CC9 Pro during today's event, Xiaomi also announced the Mi Watch. The Xiaomi Mi Watch is the company's long-rumored smartwatch, the company's very first, kind of.
You may argue that Xiaomi released quite a few smartwatches thus far, but that's not true, not exactly. It did release various smartwatches through other companies, but this is the very first Mi-branded smartwatch. The very first smartwatch that is being released under Xiaomi's brand.
The Xiaomi Mi Watch looks like the Apple Watch, there's no denying it. Not only is the general shape extremely similar to the Apple Watch, but it also comes with that round dial on the right. That dial also works similar to the one on Apple's smartwatch.
Advertisement
The Xiaomi Mi Watch is made out of metal, and it comes with a square shape. Below the round dial on the left, you will notice a microphone, and a physical key. On the left is yet another microphone.
Xiaomi announced two variants of this watch, one with a rubber band, and the other with a stainless steel band (Premium Edition). We'll talk more about the exact variants at the end of the article.
The Xiaomi Mi Watch features a 1.78-inch 448 x 368 AMOLED display (326PPI). The watch's display is protected by a sheet of Gorilla Glass 3, by the way.
Advertisement
This smartwatch is fueled by the Snapdragon Wear 3100, and it comes with 1GB of RAM and 8GB of eMMC storage. Wear OS does come pre-installed on this watch, well, kind of. Wear OS MIUI for Watch comes pre-installed on it, and is compatible with both Android and iOS. This is essentially Xiaomi's take on Wear OS, if you will.
A 570mAh battery is also included in the package, and Xiaomi claims you can get up to 36 hours of battery life with 4G running. Yes, you can take advantage of 4G with VoLTE here, thanks to an eSIM.
The watch is equipped with Bluetooth 4.2, for some reason Xiaomi opted not to include Bluetooth 5.0. The device is "swim proof", and it comes with a heart rate sensor, geomagnetic sensor, ambient light sensor, accelerometer, and a barometer.
Advertisement
The watch has a speaker on the left, and it measures 44.69 x 36.92 x 12.28mm, and weighs 44 grams (without strap) / 56 grams (Premium Edition without strap).
The watch can automatically track 10 sports activities, and it comes with European professional sports algorithm FIRSTBEAT.
The Xiaomi Mi Watch comes in Silver and Elegant Black color variants. A variant of the watch with a silicone band costs CNY1,299 ($185) in China. The Premium Edition in Black color with Stainless Steel band is priced at CNY1,999 ($285). The first variant will go on sale on November 11, while the Premium Edition will do the same in mid-December. This goes for China, of course. The watch will almost certainly be making its way to other markets, though.
Advertisement
