
# Apple iPhone SE 2 scheduled to go under mass production in January 2020, launch during March 2020

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Moneycontrol News**

Original: [Moneycontrol](https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/technology/apple-iphone-se-2-scheduled-to-go-under-mass-production-in-january-2020-launch-during-march-2020-4591411.html)

Apple is rumoured to launch the iPhone SE 2 during Q1 2020. The affordable iPhone is reportedly set to go under mass production in January 2020. Further, renowned scientist Ming-Chi Kuo has revealed that Apple would launch the iPhone SE 2 in March 2020.
Kuo, in his investor note, has stated that the iPhone SE 2 will be launch by the end of March next year. The analyst previously stated that Apple would also launch a new iPad Pro, a new MacBook Pro, and an Augmented Reality (AR) headset during H1 2020, said a report by MacRumors.
Kuo claims that the iPhone SE 2 will have a similar design like the iPhone 8 and will feature internals from the latest iPhone 11 series. The low-end iPhone would get powered by the latest Apple A13 Bionic chip and could be paired with 3GB RAM.

        Close
      
Apple would launch the iPhone SE 2 in 64GB and 128GB storage options, according to Kuo. He previously noted that the iPhone SE 2 would not feature 3D Touch.
The iPhone SE 2 will be launched as an upgrade option for existing iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s users, who are not fussed about the latest iPhone features like Face ID or multi-camera modules but want a fast and speedy iPhone experience able to take advantage of the latest iOS 13 features. 
Apple is expected to launch the iPhone SE 2 for $399. In terms of shipments, Kuo believes that Apple would ship between 2 million and 4 million units of iPhone SE 2.Special Thursday Expiry on 10th 7th NovEarly Closure to The Great Diwali Discount. Last Chance to get Moneycontrol PRO for a year @ Rs. 289/- only Coupon code: DIWALI
