
# Wales' World Cup - Owain Jones' alternative awards

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:24:49+00:00**

Author: **Owain Jones**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/wales-world-cup-owain-jones-alternative-awards)

Wales’ World Cup roller-coaster came to an end in the Third-Fourth place play off in Tokyo where an injury-ravaged Welsh side were comfortably beaten by a New Zealand side still reeling from their semi-final loss to England.
It was the culmination of a seven-week assault on rugby’s biggest prize and although Warren Gatland’s men fell short, they reached only their third semi-final in 32 years, going out to eventual winners, South Africa, through a late 76th minute Handre Pollard penalty. Along the way, some reputations were forged, some diminished as Wales carried a nation’s hopes.
As they ready themselves to head home, here are some decidedly unofficial gongs to hand out…

        The ‘world is his oyster’ award – Josh Adams
      
Josh Adams had enjoyed an encouraging start to his Welsh career in 2018, but that was merely an aperitif. 2019 was a truly transformative year for the Carmarthen-born flyer who was released by his home region, the Scarlets, as a teenager forcing him to refine his game at Worcester Warriors.
Seven tries in seven games made him the top try scorer in Northern Hemisphere history in the tournament but that didn’t tell the full story. He made the most breaks with 18 and came seventh in metres made, with 390. Such is his progression that he will be seen by many as Wayne Pivac’s first choice wing next year. George North, by contrast, endured a quiet tournament and he will know his place is not to be taken for granted. If there was a game where Adams really came of age, it was against Fiji where he endured a torrid opening quarter. Left for roadkill by Josua Tuisova and using a weak shoulder to try and bring down Kini Murimurivalu, he was already reeling when he spilled a pass from Jonathan Davies. For a moment, the Cardiff Blues wing could see his Test career at a crossroads, yet he found the resolve to dig in and was rewarded with a hat-trick. From there, he kicked on and was Wales’ standout player against New Zealand.

        The ‘it’s only a little bit of blood’ award – Ken Owens
      
The Sheriff of Carmarthen throws himself into contact with the reckless abandon of a 20-year-old and his love of close quarter contact meant his forehead was a mass of sweat and blood for a large part of the tournament. His was a flesh wound that wouldn’t heal as he spilled claret for the cause but he didn’t give his eye-catching graze the slightest attention as threw his head into rucks with customary ‘Cannonball Ken’ ferocity. A tub-thumping tournament from Wales’ most capped hooker, and time now to restore his rugged good-looks.
