
# An imperial palace, a prison—and now a symbolic museum

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:08:32+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Economist](https://www.economist.com/books-and-arts/2019/11/07/an-imperial-palace-a-prison-and-now-a-symbolic-museum)

THE STAIRS rise elegantly, twisting towards the heavens. At the top is the small room where Emperor Menelik II prayed for God’s blessing as he dramatically enlarged Ethiopia’s territory in the last decades of the 19th century. The watchtower, as this wing of the palace is known, was also a perfect vantage point for surveying his subjects on the open plain beneath its windows. It was here that Menelik founded Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, in 1886. The grand palace he built on a hilltop became the heart of each regime that succeeded his, through wars and revolutions.
Now it is to be a symbol for a new era. Last month, after winning the Nobel peace prize, Abiy Ahmed, Ethiopia’s prime minister, opened the old palace to the public for the first time since the aftermath of the revolution that overthrew Emperor Haile Selassie in 1974. At a cost of $170m (paid by the United Arab Emirates, a close ally), it is by far the country’s glitziest museum. As well as the palace itself, the site has state-of-the-art galleries that narrate Ethiopian history; a botanical garden; a pavilion with exhibits on the country’s nine regions; and two black-maned Abyssinian lions dozing in a den. “In all Ethiopian history, wherever there is a palace there must be a lion,” explains Abebaw Ayelaw, the curator.
Unity Park, as the attraction is known, has already received more than 17,000 visitors. “Let God bless you,” gushes a middle-aged woman to Tamrat Haile, the museum’s overall boss, as she emerges from an ornately decorated banquet hall. Inside is a waxwork model of Menelik sitting on his original throne; some visitors prostrate themselves in deference. The passions excited by the museum testify to the power of Ethiopia’s past both to inspire and divide. For the country’s current rulers, reconfiguring its heritage is a means to confer legitimacy and foster national unity, at a time when both are in question.
Abiy has put the renovation and celebration of historical sites at the centre of his politics. “Our job is to shake the dust off Ethiopia,” he maintained in a documentary about Unity Park broadcast on state television in September. Nearby Jubilee Palace, built by Haile Selassie in the 1950s, is also being rehabilitated (with French funds) and will eventually open to the public. Another new museum in Addis Ababa will commemorate Menelik’s defeat of the invading Italians in 1896; at least four more royal palaces in smaller towns are to become museums, too. Two ancient Christian sites, in the highland towns of Axum and Lalibela, are undergoing restoration.
Unity Park emphasises ordered progress over violent rupture. On a wall outside the palace hang portraits of every Ethiopian leader from Menelik to Abiy’s predecessor, Hailemariam Desalegn. A gallery inside the classical-style throne hall, where there is a waxwork of Haile Selassie (pictured), outlines the contributions of each to the country’s development. Menelik’s successor, Lij Iyasu, is noted for his role in establishing the first police force. Mengistu Haile Mariam, the bloodstained dictator of the 1970s and 1980s, is praised for defending Ethiopia from the invading Somalis—though an excellent exhibition in the palace’s basement, dedicated to those who were imprisoned there during the revolution Mengistu led, helps balance the picture of him.
The current prime minister, who took office in 2018 and promises Ethiopia’s first free election next May, presents all this as a break with the past. “Previously, when a government changed it would remove all the marks of its predecessor,” comments Abebaw, the curator. When Mengistu’s communist junta, known as the Derg, seized power in 1974, imperial statues were torn down. Some were dumped in the garden of the National Museum, where they still lie; others were destroyed. Elias Wondimu, a publisher who has opened a shop in Unity Park, remembers buying coffee beans wrapped in pages torn from history books. Shiferaw Bekele, a historian, recalls bonfires of books that included Haile Selassie’s autobiography. The revolutionary fervour was so intense that even the royal lions were killed.
When the Derg itself was overthrown in 1991, the incoming Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) followed suit. Unsurprisingly, a statue of Lenin was toppled. But imperial heritage was also in the firing line. “There was a very organised, systematic attempt to destroy the image of Menelik,” says Shiferaw. A controversy about the fate of his statue in Addis Ababa triggered large protests in its defence. The monument survived, but remains a source of tension.
The decision to turn Menelik’s palace into a museum is even more contentious. Several bigwigs from Abiy’s ethnic group, the Oromo, snubbed the inauguration and instead visited a memorial to Oromo victims of the emperor’s military campaigns. His armies committed mass atrocities, they say, so he should not be celebrated.
At the bottom of this heritage drive is a highly charged question: is Ethiopia an old nation or the product of a rapacious modern empire? It is a well-worn but neuralgic dispute. In the past 18 months alone hundreds of Ethiopians have been killed and millions uprooted by ethnic conflicts that often draw on historical grievances, real or exaggerated. “The problem is, we don’t have a consensus on the fundamentals of our history,” notes Mulugeta Gebrehiwot, author of a book on the EPRDF.
Abiy tends to stress nationhood, with its sense of gradual consolidation, rather than the frictions of empire; according to the museum, Ethiopia is a nation with ancient roots. But that, too, puts the prime minister at odds with those in his party who decry past imperial conquests. Some think he has been precipitous in opening Unity Park. “There needs to be a political consensus,” says Mohammed Girma, a religious scholar. “It’s a good idea but he should’ve consulted his Oromo constituency rather than rushing to build it.”
The museum’s overseers are unmoved by the criticisms. “We have to respect what happened in the past,” argues Abebaw. “We cannot always be at odds with it.” Tamrat, the director, is gathering exhibits for the rooms that remain empty. Many Ethiopian artefacts have been looted; others are still in private hands. Though some individuals have begun donating items, Tamrat says, others are cautious. After all, family homes can be safer than museums in a place where history is a battlefield. ■
