
# Here Are The Most Popular ESG Stocks With Fund Managers

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brendan Coffey**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brendancoffey/2019/11/01/here-are-the-most-popular-esg-stocks-with-fund-managers/)

ESG funds are booming. Inflows in the first six months of this year into funds classified in the environmental, social and governance were over $8.9 billion helping ESG investing “hit the mainstream,” according to a Societe Generale report.
So how big is ESG investing and what are the most popular ESG stocks?
I collected data on ESG mutual funds, as defined by the Forum for Sustainable and Responsible investment, as of September 30, as well at ESG ETFs identified by ETF.com. After stripping out double-counting, stemming from the fact the same mutual fund can have multiple share classes, that leaves us with a clear view of the ESG universe: there are 148 ESG funds holding $91.1 billion in assets. The 59 mutual funds of that group command the majority of the assets, while the 89 ETFs claim the rest. Of that $91.1 billion, $75.8 billion are invested in equities; $15.3 billion in fixed income.
ESG funds can cover a wide range of investing styles. Essentially ESG can be treated as a catch-all for any fund that has principals, however loosely defined, influencing its holdings. This, then, is a universe ranging from general funds that apply a broad social responsibility ethos, like the largest ESG fund – the $17.1 billion Parnassus Core Equity Fund – to highly specific offerings for a target audience, like the $3 million Pacer Military Times Best Employees ETF (VETS), of companies considered U.S. military veteran friendly.
Interestingly, though, despite the seeming diversity of ESG funds, their holdings are highly similar. Gathering and analyzing the top holdings of the 29 funds that hold more than 80% of the ESG equity assets, the result is a top-weighted world of blue chip names, as the table shows.
With a minimum of $2.3 billion stock held in ESG funds, leading issue Microsoft accounts for at least 3% of all assets invested in ESG stock funds. In addition to being the largest holding, Microsoft is a top-10 holdings in 18 of those top 29 funds, while Alphabet is in 14 of them with Apple and Amazon, the 12th and 14th most-held (again, by stock value) in the top holdings of 10 funds each.
You’ll notice something else about that top 10.. In fact, among the top 150 holdings I compiled, funds are decidedly light on environmental stocks overall. This may be because most ESG funds are constructed using scores given by third party institutes and index compilers who tend to use relativistic metrics. That is, Company A doesn’t use as much carbon as peers, so it scored better. Of course, social and governance issues can outweigh environmental concerns, too.
This leads to oddities for the eco-minded investor, like the fact Clorox is the 12th most held stock by ESG funds, with more than $570 million stock, while 30% of its sales come from bleach and chemical cleaning products and the company has been cited for 11 environmental offenses since 2000, according to Good Jobs First. It has, however, according to Clorox’ annual report, reduced its greenhouse gas emissions produced per unit of product against a 2011 baseline and has a high level of employee engagement compared to other consumer product companies, both attributes that score it well in typical ESG frameworks. Top ESG fund holdings also include Siemens, which has a coal power plant business (92nd most held), Total, the French oil company (112th most widely held) and BP, the British oil company (125th). Waste Management, ranked 11th with $540 million held by ESG funds, is the most held of about 10 stocks in the most-held 150 stocks one would consider for a ‘green’ stock portfolio.
Meanwhile, there’s not a pure play solar stock in the top 150.
