
# Hold P.I. Industries; target of Rs 1355: Prabhudas Lilladher

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Broker Research**

Original: [Moneycontrol](https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/stocks/hold-p-i-industries-target-of-rs-1355-prabhudas-lilladher-4605331.html)


        Prabhudas Lilladher's research report on P.I. Industries
      
PI Industries reported better than expected results driven by outperformance from the CSM segment (up 52% YoY; PLe- 19%). Management commentary on future outlook indicates robust business momentum and clear growth visibility for 2-3 years, despite gloomy agchem environment globally. PI is all set to ride the multi-year growth in the CSM segment as its enhanced R&D capabilities, supply scarcity related issues in China and increased focus on outsourcing by the innovators are bearing fruit in the form of big product wins and significant surge in deal pipeline. With the robust growth visibility, PI may be in a continuous investment phase (capabilities and capacities) leading to robust business growth but limited headroom for margin expansion from current levels. Sizeable sustained capex guidance (Rs3.0-4.5bn p.a. for the next 2-3 years) for investment in 4 new plants (2 in FY20 & FY21 each), acquisition of ISAGRO's Asia business, increasing number of products moving from R&D stage to commercialisation and continued demand traction for existing products gives us superior earnings comfort. Acquisition of ISAGRO's Asia business even though gives them readymade capacity (with minimum fresh investment needs), it will be ~100 bps margin dilutive in FY21 for PI. While the medium term growth remains intact driven by robust business outlook & earnings visibility, the stock at 33.6x/26.8x FY21/FY22 earnings offers limited upside in the short term.

        Outlook
      
We incorporate ISAGRO Asia financials, roll over to Sept'21 earnings and downgrade the stock to Hold (from Buy) with revised target price of Rs 1355 (Previous- 1278) based on 28x Sept'21 earnings of Rs 48.4.

        
          For all recommendations report, click here
        
      

        
          Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts/broking houses/rating agencies on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.
        
      

        Special Thursday Expiry on 10th 7th NovEarly Closure to The Great Diwali Discount. Last Chance to get Moneycontrol PRO for a year @ Rs. 289/- only Coupon code: DIWALI
        Read More
      
