
# Junie B. Jones a 'hilarious' musical for kids, by kids in Regina

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:00:26+00:00**

Author: **Ashley Martin**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/entertainment/local-arts/junie-b-jones-a-hilarious-musical-for-kids-by-kids-in-regina)

For a first-grader, everything can be an adventure. That’s what makes Junie B. Jones The Musical such a treat for Rachel Perron, who plays the title role in the upcoming Do It With Class production.
“The simplest things turn into huge, like, huge things in your life, like getting a new book and juggling. And being the one to pass out cookies. Hurting your toe, not being able to play in the kickball tournament,” said Perron, 12.
Fellow performer Nania Van Der Merwe, 13, said this show is “more relatable” than some previous DIWC productions, because “everyone has been in Grade 1 at one point.”
If the name Junie B. Jones rings a bell, that may be because it’s based on a series of books — although for Perron and cast mate Vamshi Vakulabharanam, also 12, they were unfamiliar.
Not so for Van Der Merwe.
“I loved those books!” Van Der Merwe exclaimed. “I have all of the books sitting in my basement, every single one.”
The first Junie B. Jones book came out in 1992; Barbara Park and Denise Brunkus published more than two dozen Junie B. Jones books through 2013.
“Basically in every book, something wonderful happens with Junie B. Jones and then something happens to like wreck it completely. And then she always finds a way to make it better with her friends or family. All that kind of stuff,” said Van Der Merwe.
These three young performers are among 18 who will present the musical in Regina next week.
Aged 7 ½ through 13, they’ll act, sing and dance while Clark Schaufele plays piano.
They’ll also draw the set backdrops onto chalkboards behind Perron as she gives little monologues.
“I have absolutely no control over how the sets will turn out each time,” said Robert Ursan, DIWC artistic director.
Van Der Merwe portrays Junie B.’s best friend Lucille — “ex-friend,” actually.
“Yeah, because I decide that Junie B Jones isn’t good enough for me anymore. But of course, who can blame me?” she said, laughing.
Vakulabharanam has no qualms portraying the dad of a girl who’s his own age in real life.
“It feels really good, because I’m going to I’m going to be dad someday, right?” he reasoned.
“He’s a happy fun kind of guy, but gets a little upset when it comes to house rules at home.”
He also teaches Junie B. how to juggle.
“I’m like her role model basically,” said Vakulabharanam. “That’s what dads do, they teach kids what to do.”
Juggling leads to the moral of the story, said Perron.
“I was practising so hard, and I felt like giving up. But … I did it. I did what my gut was telling me to do,” said Perron. “And my mom was super proud of me … ‘because you practised and practised, and you never gave up.’ And so pretty much the moral of the story is just keep on going, no matter what life does to you and it will all work out at the end.”
There’s a lot of humour in the show, the performers agree.
“It’s so fun,” said Van Der Merwe.
“It’s hilarious,” Vakulabharanam agreed. “Probably won’t have lungs by the time you get out because you’ll be laughing your lungs out.”
Do It With Class presents Junie B. Jones The Musical at the University of Regina Riddell Centre, Nov. 14-16. Showtimes vary. Visit diwc.eventbrite.com for tickets, which are $10 for youths and $25 for adults in the evenings, and $10 for matinee shows.

        amartin@postmedia.com
      
