
# How To Identify And Mitigate Unconscious Bias In The Workplace

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Eric Mosley**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ericmosley/2019/11/05/how-to-identify-and-mitigate-unconscious-bias-in-the-workplace/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Nobel Prize-winning neuroscientist Erik Kandel once estimated that 80% to 90% of the mind works unconsciously, meaning that the brains of even the most unbiased people still exhibit this primal tendency. The effects of this unconscious bias are perhaps most felt in the workplace, where, despite organizations increasingly advocating for greater equality and respect for all employees, social categorizations such as age, race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, socio-economic status and physical disability continue to impact hiring and employee promotions.Such was the case a few years ago when a study conducted at Yale revealed science faculty members exhibited subtle gender biases favoring male students, creating a glaring disparity between the number of women receiving Ph.D.’s and those hired as junior faculty. Ultimately, the findings showed that when faculty were presented with the qualifications of equally qualified male and female candidates, their review process was skewed in favor of male candidates, thereby boosting their overall chance of being hired – and with a larger starting salary.
On the flipside, imagine you are a female CEO with two team members in line for a promotion. Carl and Janet have each been at the company seven years, exhibit equally strong skills and manage similar workloads. You decide to go with Janet because you were impressed by her presentation at a recent new business pitch. You feel comfortable with your decision and know Janet will thrive in the new role, but, what if you’ve made the decision based on an unconscious gender bias?
While there’s no one foolproof way to identify unconscious bias, employers can help mitigate its effects by:
Once unconscious bias is recognized, or brought to light in the workplace, communication and feedback are key to quickly address behaviors and remedy the situation. A workplace free from unconscious bias is one where every employee, regardless of gender, nationality, race or sexual orientation, is empowered to have a voice, feels respected, has a strong sense of belonging and is comfortable bringing their true self to work. Strategies, tools and HR programs exist as solutions to help create a positive work culture across teams and unlock positivity in the workplace by celebrating employees for who they are and what they do.
Ultimately, the onus is on business leaders and managers to create a top-down cultural shift that encourages a broader awareness of unconscious bias across an organization, inspires a sense of camaraderie and recognition among employees and makes the workplace a more inclusive environment where all employees can thrive.
