
# Why it's time to ditch the 'OK Boomer' meme

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:00:21+00:00**

Author: **Bhaskar Sunkara**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/06/ok-boomer-meme-older-generations)


        Older workers and retirees are struggling to survive. They need solidarity – not rich kids shouting ‘OK Boomer’ at them
      
You might not have noticed, but apparently you’re living through something of a revolution. In a New York Times article last week, Taylor Lorenz documents the “OK Boomer” meme that’s become “ a rallying cry for millions of fed up kids” and an “endlessly repeated retort to the problem of older people who just don’t get it”. Now it’s war, the Times asserts: Gen Z has finally snapped over climate change and financial inequality.
The meme is mostly used by young people on social media to respond to perceived condescension from older users – but it’s been touted as a way to understand why job and life prospects are constrained for so many young people. It’s not capitalists, it’s not the politicians who serve them – it’s “boomers”, or everyone born in the two decades after the second world war.Like much of online culture, “OK Boomer” tells us something about the cultural dominance of upper-middle-class youth. These young people are surrounded by baby boomers who’ve “hoarded all the wealth” and polluted the planet in the process. They haven’t had to witness – or deal with the ramifications of – old age and precarity for millions of working people in that generational cohort. Instead they get to revel without self-reflection in oedipal angst about their elders – many of whom were kind enough to pass them their ill-gotten privileges.
