
# 5 NXT UK stars who could help WWE NXT defeat AEW in ratings war

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:33:07+00:00**

Author: **Scott Felstead**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/wrestling/5-nxt-uk-stars-who-20837331)

WWE had enjoyed almost two decades without serious competition until All Elite Wrestling launched on American television network TNT.
Since AEW came on air last month, its show Wednesday Night Dynamite has consistently defeated WWE's NXT over on USA Network, in the weekly head-to-head ratings battle.
In truth however, the gap between Dynamite and NXT could be closer than most observers account for, as while Dynamite is available on-demand, so too is NXT, gaining a significant boost in total viewership via the WWE Network.
Still, with both programmes looking to keep their roster fresh and competitive, there's never been a more opportune time for UK wrestlers to shine in the United States, and so WWE officials are looking closer than ever at grapplers this side of the pond.
Finn Bálor, Jack Gallagher, Pete Dunne and Tyler Bate are just a few of the talents that have made the journey to Full Sail television studios in Florida to be part of the live broadcasts of NXT and more are surely set to follow.
With increased TV exposure comes the promise of bigger contracts, and lucrative merchandise bearing a wrestler's likeness. Mirror Sport was recently granted a scouting session of our own at WWE's UK Performance Center in London.
 
When we arrived, a camera crew was in place, filming a commercial for a toy replica version of this world class training facility. With action figures already available for Pete Dunne and Tyler Bate, we could see WWE is investing heavily in its British talent.
Here are just five potential breakout stars that we chatted to on the day.
London born and self-styled 'Fashionista' Jinny was the first female graduate of the Progress Wrestling 'Projo'. In Progress, Jinny defeated Toni Storm to become women's champion, and has since honed her craft all over the world, including wrestling at WWE WrestleMania Axxess in 2017.
Originally influenced by watching the likes of Justin Liger and Trish Stratus, Jinny signed with WWE in 2018 and has been set on superstardom ever since.
 
Jinny, who was part of the shoot for Mattel's WWE Performance Center commercial (this product is available now at Smyths Toys) is well aware that opportunity beckons more than ever for those who understand the art of promoting themselves.
"We have so many personalities, and personas within NXT UK", says Jinny. "My character, she can be a little bit evil, but she's also got a soft side that no one ever sees. When it comes to fashion, I've always loved fashion so it comes quite easy for me, I just put a little twist on it, kind of like Cruella de Vil!"
Joe Coffey is an agile beast who first cut his teeth in ICW and What Culture / Defiant Wrestling before signing with WWE in 2018.
The 'Iron King' is perhaps the strongest athlete in all of NXT, as Mirror Sport discovered when we witnessed the big Scot's intense workout routine in 2018.
 
In January, Coffey aimed to be the successor to Pete Dunne's WWE UK Championship when the two men battled it out on the first ever NXT UK TakeOver, hosted in Blackpool. But after a classic match, he just failed to take the prize.
Now, with a recent important win over Dave Mastiff in a Last Man Standing bout in Cardiff, Coffey seems to be back in title contention. Since the current WWE UK Champion, Walter is often found on the US show, Coffey could be forced to chase the champ over in the United States in order to get a title shot.
Performance Center trainer, and 'Mr WrestleMania' himself Shawn Michaels once told this writer that Jordan Devlin was one of the most impressive athletes in NXT UK, and you can't get a better endorsement than that! The Irishman was trained by Finn Bálor from the age of 12, and by his early 20s was competing in Japan.
Devlin has as incredible pro wrestling resume, including multiple championships and he was also ranked 364 of the top 500 wrestlers in the world by PWI in 2017. This is a ranking that will surely skyrocket with time.
 
Arguably, Jordan’s most impressive WWE showing to date came in January at TakeOver: Blackpool, in a losing but strong effort against his mentor. With Bálor now working exclusively for the US brand, and turning heel as of last week, Devlin could prove to be a much-needed partner to his fellow countryman!
Trent Seven is no stranger to NXT's US brand. He and Tyler Bate defeated Kyle O'Reilly and Roderick Strong to win the NXT Tag Team Championship last year, but lost the belts on subsequent TV tapings in Orlando.
Seven has not appeared on the show since it debuted on USA Network, but with his British Strong Style chums Bate and Dunne now regulars, how long can it be before he joins them?
In a surreal moment, Trent Seven beams with pride as he holds up the newly launched toy version of the Performance Center. "It's so cool. There's so many playing parts to it… to have an active Performance Center where kids can go and train their figures is unbelievable," said Trent.
Dunne has an action figure, and so does Bate. One for Severn surely can't be far away.
Technically two people of course, but we are picking them both combined as a team. With NXT losing a glut of tandems recently including Authors of Pain, Viking Raiders, and The Street Profits, these former NXT UK Tag Team Champions could make for a great addition to the NXT roster in the United States.
Mark Andrews is only 27, and Morgan Webster is 29. With years ahead of them, the future looks bright for this popular double act. Individually, both men are ambitious and trained from a young age to make an impact in pro wrestling in their home country of Wales, where just a few years ago the scene was all but dead.
Wrestling Travel is the first company of its kind in the UK - set up by WWE fans for WWE fans.
It creates bespoke packages for those dreaming of going to WWE WrestleMania, Money in the Bank, SummerSlam, Survivor Series or Royal Rumble, major AEW events, and NJPW's yearly extravaganza, Wrestle Kingdom.
Wrestling Travel offers flights, transfers, hotels and event tickets - providing hassle-free, unforgettable experiences - and is ABTA and ATOL bonded through its award-winning parent company Invasion Camp Group.
For more information visit Wrestling Travel, contact info@wrestlingtravel.org, call 0161 806 1444, or follow Wrestling Travel on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram
 
Now, Andrews and Webster have joined forces to entertain audiences with an innovative blend of synchronised high-flying action, and a fresh-faced team is needed over on USA Network.
They brought the house down at TakeOver: Cardiff back in August, and many would love to see them shake things up over in the states against the likes of The Undisputed Era.

        You can watch NXT and NXT UK every Thursday exclusively on WWE Network. For more information, and to get your first month FREE, visit WWE.com
      

        Smyths Toys UK’s WWE Wrekkin Performance Centre is available now
      

        WWE is touring the UK and Ireland this week with shows in Brighton, Manchester, Leeds, Aberdeen, Dublin and Glasgow.
      

        Tickets are available now, at www.bookingsdirect.com
      
