
# Miss the thrill of being on the sidelines, admits Arsene Wenger

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:29:12+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/miss-the-thrill-of-being-on-the-sidelines-admits-arsene-wenger?utm_medium=rss)


        Arsene Wenger has admitted that he misses football coaching and is desperate to return to full time club management. The former Arsenal boss also revealed that he would be interested in taking the manager’s job at Bayern Munich after Niko Kovac was sacked by the club earlier this week.
      
Arsene Wenger left the manager’s job at Arsenal in 2018 and since then has been out of a job but is in continuous search for an opportunity that will allow him to return to the dug out. However, the French manager has regularly appeared as a TV pundit and featured yesterday on beIN Sports during the UEFA Champions League coverage. During the show, Wenger admitted that he missed football coaching and all the events surrounding it and wants to return to management as soon as possible, as reported by Evening Standard.
The report further added that Wenger has shown interest in the vacant manager’s job at Bayern Munich. The German giants dismissed manager Nico Kovac following Saturday's 5-1 loss away at Frankfurt, which left the champions in fourth and four points off leaders Borussia Monchengladbach. Jose Mourinho and Erik ten Hag have been bookmarkers favourites for the job with the latter already pulling his name out of the running.
“I came here to talk about the games and you start very strongly there, putting me under pressure! Of course. Coaching is what was my whole life until now. Everybody who has coached will tell you the same. You miss the intensity but some things you miss a lot, some things you don't miss. I enjoy the things I don't miss too much. But on the other hand: football games, winning football games, preparing the team for the game, and getting satisfaction and shared emotions. That is something that you miss,” said Wenger to the beIN Sports. 
The former Monaco boss spent 22 years at Arsenal and delivered 3 Premier League titles with the Gunners. The North Londoners also won 7 FA Cups under the Frenchman’s guidance but couldn’t etch their name on a European trophy despite reaching the 2006 Champions League final. The closest the Gunners came after that was the semi-final two seasons later and a Europa League semi-final loss to Atletico Madrid in Wenger's final season.
“So of course, yes. I was responsible from 33 years of age and I coached until 69 without interruption and at a top level. It's 36 years without stopping. Even if I miss it, to get out of that pressure for a year was not too bad for me. People who know me well say I'm more relaxed - and it's true.” concluded Wenger.
