
# Dune: The Sisterhood Loses Showrunner Jon Spaihts

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:24:01+00:00**

Author: **Jake Abbate**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/471085-dune-the-sisterhood-loses-showrunner-jon-spaihts)

Denis Villeneuve’s Dune remake is one of 2020’s most anticipated films. And if all goes well, it will herald the start of Warner Bros.’ next big franchise. The studio previously revealed that it will also bring Frank Herbert’s creations to the small screen with the upcoming HBO Max series Dune: The Sisterhood. But now, that project is in need of a new leader. The Hollywood Reporter brings word that Jon Spaihts has exited his role as showrunner.
Spaihts co-wrote the screenplay for Dune alongside Villeneuve and Eric Roth. He was announced as the showrunner for Dune: The Sisterhood back in June. According to THR, Spaihts completed one draft of a script as well as a “revised outline” for the series. Unfortunately, Legendary TV was apparently unhappy with what he turned in and decided to replace him. Instead, Spaihts will focus his efforts on crafting the sequel to Dune, which still hasn’t been confirmed by the studio. Villeneuve still intends to direct Dune: The Sisterhood’s pilot episode and Spaihts will stay on as an executive producer.
Dune: The Sisterhood follows the Bene Gesserit, a group whose members have superhuman mastery over their minds and bodies. Some of them will appear in Dune next year, including Lady Jessica (Rebecca Ferguson) and Gaius Helen Mohiam (Charlotte Rampling). However, it’s not clear if the new series will feature these particular characters or follow new ones entirely.
Dune will hit theaters on November 20, 2020. Dune: The Sisterhood is still without a release date.
What do you make of Legendary TV’s decision to remove Jon Spaihts as showrunner of Dune: The Sisterhood? Tell us what you think in the comment section below!

        Recommended Reading: Dune (Penguin Galaxy)
      

        
          We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
        
      
