
# Leni to Palace: Challenge accepted

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:17:33+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/07/leni-to-palace-challenge-accepted/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
ARE they ready for me?  Vice President Leni Robredo posed the question to Cabinet members after announcing on Wednesday that she has accepted—after days of publicly expressing extreme caution—the offer of President Duterte to become his anti-illegal drugs czar.
This comes despite her supporters warning that accepting the offer would allow the administration to pass on to her the accountability for its widely criticized war that critics say have needlessly killed thousands without substantially denting the armor of big syndicates.
In a press conference, Robredo stressed she is aware of such risks, but decided to accept the post if only to prevent more bloodshed in the government’s anti-illegal drug campaign.
In fact, she said, she would not be surprised of some of the government agencies that will be placed under her would defy her orders.
“I am prepared to endure [all this burden] if it will allow me to save even one innocent life. My principle and heart compels me to try,” Robredo said in Filipino.
Robredo said she plans to prioritize ending the deaths of drug suspects linked to the government’s campaign against illegal drugs, as well as holding accountable to people responsible for such acts.  “I did not ask for this. The idea [for me to become anti-illegal drug czar] came from the President,” Robredo said.
“He knows what I plan to do,” she added.
Robredo was widely believed poised to reject the post, which Malacañang formalized on Tuesday by releasing the President’s order with the official designation of cochairman of the Interagency Committee on Anti-Illegal Drugs (Icad), as most of her advisers and party-mates had warned that the Palace may be setting her up for failure.
On Wednesday morning, however, Robredo, looking determined, said she decided to accept the post despite contrary advice, and expressed hope, her entry may signal serious reforms in the conduct of the bloody drug war, which she had said she supported in principle while objecting to the thrusts and methods.
In a separate press conference, Presidential SpokesmanSalvador S. Panelo welcomed Robredro’s decision to rejoin the Cabinet.
“We will give all the support. Being a member of the Cabinet, it behooves all of us to help each other—because her success is the success of the Cabinet, as well as this administration and ultimately the Filipino people,” Panelo said.
He said they expect Robredo to soon meet with Duterte to determine the former’s responsibilities and powers as the Icad co-chairman, sharing that title with Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) Chief Aaron Aquino.
Sen. Juan Edgardo Angara said he was “surprised” by Robredo’s “change of heart” since she had publicly indicated her reluctance to take on the job. “We wish her well and hope she succeeds in helping solve the menace of drugs which destroys lives and communities. If she meets with success in her new role, it will be good for the country and the administration, which delegated the job to her.”
Sen. Panfilo Lacson praised Robredo “for accepting the daunting challenge,” adding that, “Nobody in this world cannot be incapable of accomplishing a task as long as he or she puts his or her mind and conscience into the job.”
In Lacson’s view, “experience counts but sincerity and mental honesty, not to mention the willingness to learn, should count more.”
Lacson, a former National Police chief, said he is “ready and willing to humbly share whatever modest law enforcement experience I gained in my previous life.”
Robredo’s party-mate in the Liberal Party, Sen. Francis “Kiko” Pangilinan, in a statement in Filipino said Robredo had made it clear that in accepting the task, “she will object to daily killings, she will make ninja cops liable, and will run after drug syndicates and those who allowed them to smuggle tons of shabu through the Bureau of Customs.”
He said the LP has discussed the offer at length, and while Robredo knows it may be a trap, “she has accepted the challenge” because the welfare of the poor who become victims of the bloody drug war weighs on her.
For her part, Sen. Risa Hontiveros said that “despite the observation of many that she is being set up to fail, the Vice President’s decision is extremely laudable. It demonstrates her readiness to lead and sacrifice for the people and provide better solutions to the country’s drug problem.”
If Robredo “is provided all the necessary powers and resources, and given the full liberty to implement a public health approach coupled with a rights-based law enforcement strategy, she can do a much better job in responding to the drug problem,” Hontiveros added.

        
          With Butch Fernandez
        
      
Image Credits: OVP Photo
