
# NZR's unicorn blood solution to the Chiefs coaching conundrum

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:07:37+00:00**

Author: **Tom Vinicombe**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/nzrs-unicorn-blood-solution-to-the-chiefs-coaching-conundrum)

It was widely considered an excellent signing when the Chiefs announced that Warren Gatland would be returning home in 2020 to coach the Waikato-based side.
Gatland, with two successful Lions series, four Six Nations Championships, and three Grand Slams to his name, is rightfully one of the most respected coaches on the international circuit.
Couple his obvious strengths as a coach with his strong ties to the region – he won the NPC with Waikato back in 2006 – and he’s a perfect fit for the Chiefs.
Gatland’s four-year appointment came with a few stipulations, however.
Having taken the Lions to Australia in 2013 and New Zealand in 2017, Gatland will again take control of the composite side for their tour to South Africa in 2021.

        Continue reading below…
      

        Click here to see the video
      
That role will directly take him away from the Chiefs for a whole season, but Gatland will also be spending plenty of time in 2020 watching, analysis and assessing the talent he’ll have at his disposal in Europe.
Gatland, the consummate professional that he is, won’t be doing a half-arsed job for the Chiefs by any means, but he’ll be effectively working one-and-a-half roles throughout the year.
It’s a situation that outgoing All Blacks coach Steve Hansen has raised his eyebrows at.
“Having him back in New Zealand for a year, not sure how that’s going to work, because he’s going to do the (British and Irish) Lions after that,” said Hansen after New Zealand’s bronze medal victory over Wales.
“So not a lot of continuity for him or the Chiefs, but I’m sure he’ll work his way through that.”
It will make for a difficult time for the Chiefs, with the impact being further amplified by Gatland’s late entrance to the role.
The Super Rugby season will kick off on the 31st of January with the Blues hosting the Chiefs.
Naturally, Gatland’s entire focus this year will have been on Wales and their World Cup campaign. It’s expected that Gatland will take at least some time off before jumping straight back into the coach’s seat – but that will prove somewhat problematic for the Chiefs.
On November 30, Gatland will take charge of the Barbarians in a match against Wales, who will be operating under new coach Wayne Pivac for the first time.
Despite the carnival nature of the match, Gatland will still need to spend some time strategising and coaching with his Barbarians squad before game day.
