
# Uber’s Fintech Strategy: A Conversation With Peter Hazlehurst, Head Of Uber Money

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ron Shevlin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ronshevlin/2019/11/04/a-peek-into-ubers-fintech-strategy-a-conversation-with-peter-hazlehurst-head-of-uber-money/)

At the recent Money 20/20 conference, Uber announced Uber Money, a new division within the ride-hailing firm. Afterwards, I sat down with Peter Hazlehurst, Head of Uber Money, to discuss the new features and improvements which include:
We also spoke about Uber’s broader fintech strategy regarding:
Unlike so many other fintech startups getting adoring attention (and untenable valuations), Uber Money is going to become a force in financial services. Uber is in position to capitalize on two trends:
The Gig Economy Index™ estimates that nearly 40% of the American workforce makes at least 40% of their income via gig work, and that 55% of gig workers also maintain full-time or "regular" jobs.
These workers have unique banking needs that distinguish them from other consumers including: 1) Inconsistent and/or unpredictable income patterns; 2) Credit needs; 3) Health (and other) insurance needs; and 4) Tax requirements. I'm sure gig economy workers could add to that list.
Slightly more than half of rideshare drivers are 30 to 49 years old, and a third are either African-American or of Hispanic heritage. Nearly four in ten Uber drivers rely on the rideshare service for the bulk of their income.
This is the bulls eye of Uber's financial service target market: The older Millennial or Gen X, non-white driver who relies on the service for his income, with unmet insurance (47% of drivers don’t have rideshare insurance) and borrowing needs.
The next ring of the Uber bulls eye are the nearly one in five Uber drivers who, in addition to driving for Uber, have other gig economy jobs.
Outer rings of the bulls eye contain other drivers who rely less on Uber for their income and non-Uber driving gig economy workers, but who may still benefit from insurance or loans provided by the rideshare service.
Although there is a growing number of startups (not all “fintech”) serving the gig economy, many will come up against a trend which will hamper their–and traditional banks’–efforts to serve this segment: Headless banking.
The term “headless computing” has gained some currency recently. From a software perspective, it applies to an application that doesn’t have its own interface, but is embedded (for lack of a better term) in a host application.
Headless computing is emerging in banking on two fronts: 1) Headless banking applications embedded in other consumer- or user-facing applications, and 2) Headless banking applications embedded in internal bank systems and applications (for example, a compliance application embedded in an account opening system).
Uber Money benefits from both fronts:
Uber's financial services opportunity is providing a wide range of services to a relatively narrow segment of consumers—first to its drivers and then to other gig economy workers. Attracting mainstream consumers isn’t a condition of success for Uber Money.
It’s great (for consumers) that neobanks are falling over themselves telling the world they don’t charge fees. At some point–unless they sell out–they’re going to have to make money. The path to lending won’t be an easy one.
Uber Money, on the other hand, has a path to revenue. Its pricing strategies–lower fees and interest rates on loans to drivers who make more trips–will help grow overall trip volume. And its data about drivers’ cash flow and income will enable smart–and fast–lending decisions.

        Uber Money will succeed where other fintechs have failed because it has a business model.
      
Ooh! It feels so good to use “fintech” and “business model” in the same sentence.
