
# Can We Stop Hating On ‘Diablo 3’ Ahead Of BlizzCon’s ‘Diablo 4’ Reveal?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/01/can-we-stop-hating-on-diablo-3-ahead-of-blizzcons-diablo-4-reveal/)

It’s now an open secret that part of Blizzard’s “let’s forget about that whole Hong Kong thing” plan for BlizzCon is going to be a big reveal of Diablo 4, alongside news about Overwatch 2 and other titles. There have been leaks about Diablo 4 for a few weeks now, some very much fake (no it’s not going to be an FPS to replace Destiny) some that are probably true (Barbarian, Mage, Druid as three of the classes).
But one common refrain I keep hearing in some capacity is that Diablo 4 is going to go back to Diablo’s “roots.” No more of that sunshine and rainbow crap from Diablo 3. We’re going back to Diablo 1-2 when the game was good and dark and gritty and bloody and evil!
Sorry but, please stop.
I didn’t put 2000 hours into 12 characters across console and PC versions of Diablo 3 to hear it slandered as a bad game that should be avoided when new installments are crafted.
Yes, it was a bad launch. It had server issues. It had the garbage Auction House. It had bad legendaries and bad legendary drop rates.
And yet it fixed itself. By the time Reaper of Souls and Loot 2.0 came around a year or so later, Diablo 3 was a game transformed. It went from mediocre to what I would deem the best ARPG in history, and it had sales to match. By last count, Diablo 3 had sold 30 million copies between the base game and Reaper, and that was before it launched on Switch, making it one of the best-selling games ever.
I also think people are viewing Diablo 2 with rose colored lenses to a certain extent. Yes, it was also a great game, but not without its share of problems including things like duped items, locked-in builds and the fact that it was totally overrun by spam sellers later in its life. Diablo 2 is why the Auction House existed in Diablo 3 so Blizzard could try to get some manner of control over that black market (but it nearly killed the game anyway).
Diablo 3 is also not as bright and cheery as everyone seems to falsely remember. I remember yes, there were some early previews that were pretty bright and colorful and looked a bit odd. But by the time the game was released, all of that was muted, and while sure, there were different areas that were fields and deserts instead of caves and more caves and hell pits, they certainly weren’t cheery. And by the time Reaper of Souls hit, all those new environments were incredibly dark and spooky. And in terms of the gore? I mean, have you ever killed an ogre in that game and watched an ocean of blood and a thousand pounds of ribs hit the stone floor? Give me a break. It’s more gory practically by the generational graphical difference between D2 and D3 alone.
The narrative that Diablo 3 was bad is wrong. It was dark, it was gory, it improved on Diablo 2 in many, many ways. And it should be used as a solid base for Diablo 4, not avoided as Blizzard tries to reclaim nostalgia for the older games without remembering the lessons of what made D3 an eventual success.
That may be in fact what Blizzard is doing, it’s just that all these leaks are citing D2 at every turn and disparaging D3. I will not have it. Diablo 3 is one of my favorite games of all time and if Diablo 4 can be even half as good, it’s going to be a colossal hit for a beleaguered Blizzard. Though whether that happens or not with the current team at Blizzard (which is missing a ton of D2 and D3 veterans) remains to be seen, but I am holding out hope they can get it together.
