
# Trump and Senate Republicans Celebrate Making the Courts More Conservative

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:07:18+00:00**

Author: **Carl Hulse**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/06/us/trump-senate-republicans-courts.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

WASHINGTON — President Trump took a moment on Wednesday to celebrate his success confirming his judicial appointments, an achievement crucial to maintaining his hold on conservatives and on evangelical voters as he heads into an election year fighting off impeachment by the House.
With another flurry of Senate judicial confirmations this week, the Trump administration will have placed 45 conservative judges on the nation’s appeals courts — the federal courts where most final rulings are issued. The tally means one-quarter of all appellate court judges will have been installed by Mr. Trump.
And that is in addition to the two Supreme Court justices confirmed since he took office and 112 district court judges put on the bench, with more on the way. Many will be handing down decisions decades after Mr. Trump is gone from office.
“We are going to be, I think, just about No. 1 by the time we finish — No. 1 of any president, any administration,” the president enthusiastically told an East Room audience that included Republican members of the Senate Judiciary Committee as well as Leonard Leo of the Federalist Society and other conservative judicial activists who helped the White House identify and advance the judicial nominees. “This is really fantastic.”
To further mark the milestone, the White House on Wednesday released the names of seven new federal court appointees even as senators raced back to Capitol Hill after the White House event for votes on two pending nominees.
The president’s success confirming conservative judges has elevated the makeup of the courts into an issue in the 2020 campaign, with some Democrats calling for term limits on Supreme Court justices or adding new seats to the court to offset Mr. Trump’s influence. Progressive groups have also urged sitting lower court judges appointed by Democrats not to retire and hand Mr. Trump more vacancies to fill until after the outcome of the 2020 election is determined.
“Democrats have been caught napping on the courts for a while now, and we are going to pay the price for years to come,” said Brian Fallon, the head of Demand Justice, a progressive group formed to encourage Democrats to put more emphasis on the struggle over the federal courts.
Mr. Trump and his allies in the Senate, led by Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican and majority leader, recognize that their push to fill the courts is a strong selling point to their base, and they intend to emphasize it in 2020.
Mr. McConnell openly gloated about the single maneuver that has most infuriated Democrats in the court fight — his refusal to even convene a hearing for Mr. Obama’s choice to replace Justice Antonin Scalia, Judge Merrick B. Garland, after the justice’s death in February 2016.
“You had been helped enormously by a decision that I made — and these guys will back me up — not to let President Obama fill that Scalia vacancy on the way out the door,” said Mr. McConnell, referring to the Senate Republicans on hand at the White House.
He also noted that Mr. Trump benefited politically in his 2016 race by releasing a list of prospective Supreme Court nominees who would fill the vacancy created by Mr. Scalia’s death. The list of candidates assured conservatives that Mr. Trump would appoint justices who shared their values if he were elected president.
The many openings that the president has been able to fill were the result of the refusal by Mr. McConnell and his Republican colleagues to confirm Obama administration nominees to many lower court vacancies after gaining the majority in 2014.
After Mr. Trump was elected, Mr. McConnell and Donald F. McGahn II, then the White House counsel, set out on a concerted campaign to push highly vetted conservatives into those openings, aided by a 2013 Senate rules change pushed through by Democrats that limited the ability of the minority party to block nominees through a filibuster.
Republicans sped up the process even more by weakening the Senate tradition of allowing senators to block home-state nominees they opposed and shortening the time senators could delay votes on contested nominees.
The results have been striking. Mr. Trump has seated about a dozen more appellate court nominees than his most recent predecessor and the most since 1980, when President Jimmy Carter expanded the courts. In addition, one federal appellate circuit has been flipped from a majority of judges nominated by Democratic presidents to a majority selected by Republicans. A second is about to become majority Republican nominees.
The partisan divide has also been significantly narrowed on other circuits, including the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on the West Coast, a particular thorn in the side of Mr. Trump in a series of rulings on immigration and other issues. The president has named five judges to that court.
At the same time, the judicial nominees the White House is putting forward are on average younger — Mr. Trump said 10 years younger than Obama nominees — and deemed to be more conservative than past nominees even compared with those put forward by previous Republican presidents.
Court observers say that the effect of Trump’s appointments in making decisions is already being felt.
“President Trump’s crowing over his judicial appointments takes no heed, as usual, of the damage these judicial appointees are doing,” said Marge Baker of the liberal group People for the American Way. “These judges have made unconscionable rulings upholding age discrimination and racial discrimination, denied health benefits to sick workers and ruled to eliminate women’s access to vital health care.”
Many of the administration’s nominees have run into strong resistance from Democrats and outside advocacy groups, but most have ultimately been confirmed because there is little opponents can do without defections by Republicans, which have been rare.
Democrats have complained that some Trump nominees have been woefully short of experience, have expressed intolerant views in their writings and remarks. The American Bar Association has rated a handful as unqualified.
Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader and a longtime central player in judicial confirmations, assailed the quality of Mr. Trump’s nominees.
“As a senator, I have now worked with four separate administrations, Democrat and Republican, on the appointment of federal judges,” Mr. Schumer said. “I can say with perfect confidence that over the last three years, President Trump has nominated — and Senate Republicans have approved — the most unqualified and radical nominees in my time in this body.”
Republicans dismiss such complaints and effusively praised Mr. Trump’s nominees on Wednesday, taking particular pride in the confirmation of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court despite accusations of sexual misconduct and misleading the Senate.
“One thing I want to say about President Trump, the defining moment of your presidency for me was the Kavanaugh hearing,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, about the president’s standing by Justice Kavanaugh. “This room would be empty if we had failed Brett Kavanaugh.”

        Continue reading the main story
      
