
# Light the World Giving Machines back this Christmas

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:06:26+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/03/light-the-world-giving-machines-back-this-christmas/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (the Church), and three charity organizations from the Catholic Church, United Nations and business launched on Wednesday the 2019 Light the World Giving Machines in time for Christmas.
Joining the Church in spearheading the gift-giving initiative are Caritas-Manila, the United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) Philippines and business-based Hero Foundation.
Fr. Anton Pascual, executive director of Caritas Manila; Maria Margarita Uy Baula, Unicef corporate fundraising  officer; and Kiel Sandico-Fernandez, head for fundraising and marketing of Hero Foundation graced the event.
Beginning on November 8, people can participate in instant acts of service by buying for someone in need through the special giving machines that will be located at the fourth Level of TriNoma Mall near Cinema 1 in Quezon City.
Coming back this year as charity partners are Unicef Philippines and Caritas Manila. Hero Foundation joins as the third partner.
The Light the World Giving Machines will be set up in 10 locations across the globe, with Manila being the only site with a Giving Machine in Asia.
Gift options begin from a P50 medicine kit to a P1,000 contribution to aid in a child’s lower limb prosthesis.
The Light the World Giving Machines allow everyone to give. Whereas a typical vending machine would only allow a person to get something.
The Giving Machines will operate from November 8 until December 31 during mall hours. The machines will close on January 1, 2020.
All proceeds will go directly to the three charity organizations. All administrative costs will be covered by the Church allowing 100 percent of the donations to go to the beneficiaries.
For those outside Metro Manila who wish to donate, the Light the World products will be available on the Lazada flagship stores of Unicef, Caritas Manila and Hero Foundation.
The Light the World products is available on Lazada starting October 30 until 31 December.
The Light the World Giving Machine is part of the Church’s Christmas campaign, #LightTheWorld. This initiative celebrates the birth and life of Jesus Christ, who is the Light of the world, and asks people to follow His example of serving and caring for individuals one by one throughout the month of December.
In 2018, the Giving Machines raised more than $2 million for local and international charities from five locations worldwide.
Manila alone raised a total of over P800,000 donations from close to 4,000 donors.
The Church, along with Caritas Manila, Unicef and Hero Foundation, hopes to raise more funds to help more children and families this year.
Image Credits: Bernard Testa
