
# Why Lewis Hamilton Turned Down A Role In Top Gun: Maverick

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:37:46+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483834/why-lewis-hamilton-turned-down-a-role-in-top-gun-maverick)

Written By
When we see a major franchise like Star Wars return to the big screen, we hear countless stories of actors and other celebrities looking for a way to appear in a franchise they grew up loving. It seems that something similar happened in the case of Top Gun: Maverick as a Formula One racer was actually set to appear in the upcoming sequel, unfortunately, the day job got in the way.
Lewis Hamilton makes his living as a Formula One race car driver, but the racer has Hollywood ambitions. He's appeared as a voice in Cars movies and also had a cameo in Zoolander 2, but Hamilton told ESPN that he had a role in Top Gun: Maverick all locked up, but the schedule did not allow for him to actually film it.
It's probably little shock that a professional race car driver loves a movie whose most famous line of dialogue revolves around "the need for speed." Lewis Hamilton admits that he has gone after other Hollywood roles in the past that he did not get, but his comments here indicate that the role in the Top Gun sequel was his, the only problem was that he didn't have the time to show up and do the part.
While Lewis Hamilton apparently has Hollywood ambitions, it looks like his desire to act is colliding with his racing schedule. It's not just that he's too busy racing to act. The man still wants time for himself, so filling up the few breaks he does have with movies roles isn't really what he's looking for.
It seems likely that if Lewis Hamilton really wants to act, he may need to take time away from racing to do it. Of course, when that's the thing you make your living doing, it's potentially tough to just walk away and try your hand at an entirely new career. There's certainly no guarantee that Hamilton will have roles lined up for him, even if he had the time.
Hamilton himself even accepts that acting may not really be in his future. He knows how much work he would have to put in to be great at it. Still, he plans to give it a shot at some point.
It's too bad that Lewis Hamilton had to give up on being in the new Top Gun. Instead, he'll just have to sit in the theater and enjoy it with the rest of us when the film arrives next year.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
