
# Hellas Verona 2-1 Brescia: Mario Balotelli threatens to walk off pitch after racist abuse from fans

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:22:38+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BBC Sport](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/50281847)


        Mario Balotelli kicked the ball into the crowd and threatened to walk off the pitch following racist abuse during Brescia's defeat by Hellas Verona.
      
Play was suspended after Italy striker Balotelli, 29, picked up the ball in the 54th minute.
Brescia team-mates and the officials persuaded him to stay on the field.
Balotelli wrote on Instagram: "The 'people' of this curva who made the monkey chants. Shame on you, shame on you, shame on you."
The former Manchester City and Liverpool striker included a video of some supporters making the chants in his Instagram Stories.
He added: "In front of your children, wives, relatives, parents, friends and acquaintances... shame.
"Thanks to all the colleagues on the field and off for the solidarity I had with me, and all the messages received from you fans.
"Thank you very much. You have proven to be true men not like those who deny the evidence. #notoracism."
After Balotelli had been persuaded to stay on the pitch, referee Maurizio Mariani initiated the anti-racism protocol.
An announcement warned fans that further abuse would lead to the game being abandoned.
Balotelli played the full match and scored a sublime goal in the 85th minute, though his side were unable to find a late equaliser.
It was the second time such a protocol has been followed in Serie A this weekend after the game between Roma and Napoli was briefly halted when territorial chants were directed at the Napoli supporters.
Verona boss Ivan Juric insisted after the game though there was no racist abuse.
He said: "I'm not afraid to say today there was nothing. Lots of whistling and teasing against a great player, but there was nothing else.
"I have also taken so many insults over the years, I know what it means - but today there has been nothing.
"On the reason of the reaction you have to ask him. When there is racism, I will have no problem saying so because it sucks, even if it comes from my fans.
"But today I heard nothing. We don't create a case where there isn't, it would be a lie."
Brescia later issued a statement criticising Verona's senior managerial representatives for "an attempt to deny or minimise the gravity of the incident".
"This afternoon it happened to one of our players, but it could have happened to anyone else, of any team and the sentence should be as equally firm and determined," the club statement said. "Football is for everyone and everyone deserves the same respect."
Piara Powar, the executive director of the Fare network, which combats racism and discrimination in football across Europe, praised Balotelli for his actions.
He said: "Mario Balotelli has taken a stand against racism and we applaud him for it.
"But the question many people are asking is why other players on the pitch, his team-mates and players from Verona, thought it more appropriate to tell him to stay and suffer instead of joining him in solidarity?
"There is so much to do in Italy, so much education, so much regulatory work, the situation is out of control.
"We will add it to the list of incidents in Italy and present it to the authorities, but there seems little prospect of effective action being taken. It is a depressing picture."
Balotelli previously said he would walk off the pitch if he was again subjected to racial abuse after he and AC Milan team-mates were targeted in a Serie A match against Roma in 2013.
In March 2018, the then-Nice forward had a booking for complaining about alleged racist chants by Dijon fans rescinded.
On Saturday, another Serie A match between Roma and Napoli was temporarily paused due to chants aimed at Napoli supporters.
Fare claimed earlier this season that Italian football's disciplinary systems to combat racism are "not fit for purpose".
That came after Cagliari were cleared of racist chanting towards Inter Milan striker Romelu Lukaku, with a judging panel determining there was not enough evidence for sanctions.
Referee:Maurizio Mariani
Home TeamHellas VeronaAway TeamBresciaPossessionHome52%Away48%ShotsHome11Away16Shots on TargetHome3Away5CornersHome5Away1FoulsHome19Away15
Posted at
Match ends, Verona 2, Brescia 1.
Posted at 90'+7'
Alessandro Matri (Brescia) is shown the red card.
Posted at 90'+7'
Second Half ends, Verona 2, Brescia 1.
Posted at 90'+5'
Foul by Sofyan Amrabat (Verona).
Posted at 90'+5'
Dimitri Bisoli (Brescia) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 90'+4'
Sandro Tonali (Brescia) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Posted at 90'+4'
Mattia Zaccagni (Verona) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Posted at 90'+4'
Foul by Sandro Tonali (Brescia).
Posted at 90'+1'
Foul by Marco Faraoni (Verona).
Posted at 90'+1'
Emanuele Ndoj (Brescia) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 88'
Darko Lazovic (Verona) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Posted at 88'
Foul by Stefano Sabelli (Brescia).
Posted at 87'
Mariusz Stepinski (Verona) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 87'
Foul by Emanuele Ndoj (Brescia).
Posted at 86'
Substitution, Brescia. Felipe Curcio replaces Bruno Martella.
Posted at 85'
Goal! Verona 2, Brescia 1. Mario Balotelli (Brescia) right footed shot from outside the box to the top right corner. Assisted by R么mulo.
Posted at 84'
Attempt blocked. Mariusz Stepinski (Verona) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Marco Faraoni.
Posted at 81'
Goal! Verona 2, Brescia 0. Matteo Pessina (Verona) left footed shot from the left side of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Mattia Zaccagni.
Posted at 80'
Attempt saved. Mario Balotelli (Brescia) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Dimitri Bisoli with a cross.
Posted at 80'
Foul by Mariusz Stepinski (Verona).
Posted at 80'
Ales Mateju (Brescia) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 76'
Attempt missed. Amir Rrahmani (Verona) header from the centre of the box misses to the left. Assisted by Valerio Verre following a set piece situation.
Posted at 76'
Mariusz Stepinski (Verona) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 76'
Foul by Sandro Tonali (Brescia).
Posted at 75'
Attempt missed. R么mulo (Brescia) right footed shot from the centre of the box is too high. Assisted by Dimitri Bisoli.
Posted at 74'
Attempt missed. Mariusz Stepinski (Verona) right footed shot from the right side of the box misses to the left. Assisted by Alan Empereur.
Posted at 73'
Substitution, Verona. Mariusz Stepinski replaces Eddie Salcedo.
Posted at 72'
Sofyan Amrabat (Verona) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 72'
Foul by R么mulo (Brescia).
Posted at 72'
Attempt blocked. Mario Balotelli (Brescia) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Emanuele Ndoj.
Posted at 71'
Substitution, Brescia. Alessandro Matri replaces Alfredo Donnarumma.
Posted at 70'
Sofyan Amrabat (Verona) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 70'
Foul by R么mulo (Brescia).
Posted at 70'
Attempt missed. Valerio Verre (Verona) right footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the right. Assisted by Darko Lazovic following a fast break.
Posted at 69'
Foul by Pawel Dawidowicz (Verona).
Posted at 69'
Mario Balotelli (Brescia) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 68'
Attempt missed. Mario Balotelli (Brescia) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Alfredo Donnarumma.
Posted at 67'
Attempt saved. Mario Balotelli (Brescia) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
Posted at 66'
Foul by Valerio Verre (Verona).
Posted at 66'
Mario Balotelli (Brescia) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Show more updatesgoal
