
# Around Town Monday November 4 RJS Capital

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:52:52+00:00**

Author: **David Parker, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/business/local-business/around-town-monday-november-4-rjs-capital)

Global vacations for the Shibley family always meant “living like the locals” in terms of choosing the food to eat and taking the time to visit and learn about the needs of those less fortunate than themselves.
Ranny Shibley, president & CEO of RJS Capital, says more often than not his parents would take him and his brothers to see orphanages where children had so little educational opportunities, especially when compared to their studies at West Island College.
He says spending time at an orphanage in the Dominican Republic was a game changer for him. Playing with kids and seeing them laugh was a real joy.
Back in Calgary, he made a pledge to himself to continue helping the children. He shared his concerns about these children with friends and was able to raise money; friends also told their parents about the orphanage and they were also willing to help.
The catch was they wanted a tax receipt, so Shibley got to work. Setting up a charitable organization is a long process but working with five board members, he was able to register the Hayati Children’s Foundation in 2007 (since rebranded as 4 the Kids Foundation) after receiving charitable tax status.
Meanwhile, Shibley graduated in geomatics at University of Calgary and had begun working for his family’s oil and gas firm, Daroil Energy.
At age 23 he was president and CEO. By buying and selling oil properties for a profit, he multiplied 15-fold and later sold it in 2015. The economic changes to the energy industry caused him to diversify by setting up RJS Capital, investing in residential and industrial real estate, and today the company is an investor in several properties, a hotel and two start-up technology companies. Successfully managing passive income allowed Shibley to give more of his time to his charitable ambitions to ensure at-risk children had proper food and nutrition, potable water and school supplies.
The orphanage in the Dominican Republic was the first focus and he set about raising more capital through charity poker tournaments. This past June was the 12th anniversary of the hugely successful Vino for Bambinos in partnership with the Calgary Zoo. It was attended by 500 guests and raised $65,000.
The fun event that offered 10 food and 17 beverage stations is the only fundraiser supporting the foundation.
Today, the money supports three other facilities. The original orphanage is now self-sufficient, but it has added Casa de bom Sonhos, a home for street kids in Mozambique, and two orphanages in Mexico. Hope House in Ajijic and Love in Action in Chapala are both located in the Guadalajara area where 60 kids are looked after.
Visits to the orphanages by Calgarians — who pay their own way, as 100 per cent of funds raised go to the cause — have resulted in getting a lot of support from the local communities including free dental check-ups and donations, while food, milk, hygiene and education are being regularly provided by 4 the Kids Foundation. With board approval, the children were also given 15 bicycles as a one-off contribution.
A new venture is the opening of a thrift store thanks to trips from here with clothing, toys and other items that will help train young business people and assist these homes towards self-sufficiency.
As they become better able to run themselves Shibley and his board are looking to help other kids and are in current negotiations to help an existing orphanage in Medellin, Colombia.
The focus of his charity began with — and is still very committed — to the ideal of providing at-risk children a safe environment and tools to help them build successful lives in areas where there is little help. However, the charity also has a heart for children in need in our city.
It has long been a supporter of Inn From the Cold via cash that can be used to buy items for its student-run clinic and to help run its education programs. And, in another relationship with the Calgary Zoo, the charity provides educational camp fees and transportation for many who would otherwise not have the privilege of spending time with the animals.
***
David Parker appears regularly in the Herald. Read his columns online at calgaryherald.com/business. He can be reached at 403-830-4622 or by email at info@davidparker.ca.
