
# Which big names have fallen victim to the high street crisis?

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:40:23+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Butler**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2019/nov/06/high-street-crisis-big-names-job-losses-store-closures)


        Thousands of jobs have been lost and hundreds of stores closed as retail slowdown bit
      
Thousands of high street jobs have been lost this year as a result of administrations and thousands more are at risk as Mothercare, Debenhams and Forever 21 prepare for closures. Among the big high street names affected are:
It is to close all 79 UK stores, putting 2,500 retail jobs at risk after collapsing into administration on Tuesday.
Had 220 salons and 1,200 staff when it went into administration in October.
Had 318 stores and 2,887 employees when it collapsed in October. The retailer is still trading as administrators seek a buyer.
The Scottish department store chain had 11 stores and 306 employees when it went into administration in October. All the stores have closed and the majority of staff have lost their jobs.
With 35 stores and 350 staff, the jewellery chain went into administration in October but its sites are still trading while a buyer is sought.
Had three stores and about 290 employees in the UK when it went into administration in September. Stores are open to clear stock.
The pawnbrokers suddenly shut its 116 stores in September with the loss of about 400 jobs, even though it did not call in administrators. Albemarle sold its pledge books to rival H&T in September.
Had 32 stores and 177 concessions, employing 1,100 people, when it went into administration in August. All sites were closed and the vast majority of staff made redundant. The online brands were bought out by Boohoo.com.
Had about 100 stores and 1,700 staff in the UK when it went into administration in August. Jack Wills was bought by Sports Direct and 98 stores are still trading in the UK and Ireland.
Closed all 37 stores with the loss of about 300 jobs when it went into administration in August.
Had 132 stores and 529 staff when it went into administration in June. Homebase bought 44 stores, saving 154 jobs. The brand now trades from 28 stores.
The fashion retailer had 180 stores and 2,000 employees when it went into administration in May. In June, administrators carried out an insolvency procedure called a company voluntary arrangement (CVA) to close 11 stores with the loss of about 200 jobs.
Had 166 stores and more than 25,000 employees when went into administration in April. No stores closed immediately and the chain is now owned by its lenders, but two will close before Christmas and another 20 in January when the group completes a restructure expected to result in the loss of 1,200 jobs.
Had 12 stores and about 170 employees when Liam Gallagher’s fashion outlet went into administration in March. All but one store and 33 concessions closed with 100 jobs lost, but 67 roles were saved when the brand was bought by JD Sports in April.
All 94 stores have closed with the loss of 1,170 jobs . The stationery retailer went into administration in March.
Had 41 stores and 500 employees when it went into administration in March. The brand was bought by its Chinese franchise partner, Rebecca Feng, saving 21 stores, all of the group’s concessions and 325 jobs. But more than 100 jobs were lost with the closure of 15 stores.
Had 200 cafes employing nearly 3,000 people when an accounting scandal prompted the chain to call in administrators in January. About 70 of the group’s 200 stores closed immediately with the loss of 900 jobs.
About 2,000 jobs were saved when about 100 Patisserie Valerie cafes were rescued by Causeway Capital, although more than 20 of these have since closed. Twenty-one Philpotts sandwich shops were bought by AF Blakemore & Son and four Baker & Spice cafes were bought by the Department of Coffee & Social Affairs.
