
# Scotland's first Santa only Post Office will transform empty space into Victorian festive wonderland

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:59:36+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Russell, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jennifer-russell/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/scotlands-first-santa-only-post-20764901)

Scotland will this year have a Santa only Post Office for children, and adults, to post their letters to Father Christmas.
The first of its kind in Scotland will see designers transform an empty space in Crieff , Perth and Kinross, into a Victorian themed post office.
Children will be able to post their letters directly to Santa with the help of some friendly elves who will be spreading Christmas cheer.
 
The post office, in James Square in the town, will include writing paper, stickers and a magic post box which shows the letters on their way to Lapland.
The currently empty retail space will be decked out like a festive wonderland run by Santa's elves. There will also be a separate area as an 'elf workshop' which will include a wrapping station and Christmas themed games.
Open from Saturday, November 30 to coincide with the town's light switch on, kids will also have a chance to meet Santa himself when he visits on December 7.
David McCann, from Crieff Succeeds, told the Daily Record : "Santa’s post offices have proved extremely popular in England and Wales, so we’re delighted to have the first ever one in Scotland here in Crieff.
"Entry will be free although we will include a donation box to raise money for a local charity .
"The post office will be open on Saturdays and Sundays and possibly for a few hours every day during the week late afternoon. There will also be an external post box so that letters can be posted at any time of day. "
Find out more online here .
