
# Looking At How The Betting Is Trending in the New York Jets-Miami Matchup

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **J.P. Pelzman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jppelzman/2019/11/02/looking-at-how-the-betting-is-trending-in-the-new-york-jets-miami-matchup/)

After going winless both on the field and in the betting parlors in September, the Miami Dolphins rallied somewhat last month.The Dolphins (0-7) still were very much in tanking mode by losing all three of their October games outright, but by replacing still-disappointing second-year quarterback Josh Rosen with veteran Ryan Fitzpatrick, they became much more competitive. Fitzpatrick nearly rallied Miami from a double-figure deficit to an actual victory against Washington, and had the Dolphins ahead at halftime in subsequent losses at Buffalo and Pittsburgh.
Which brings us to Sunday’s home game against the similarly downtrodden New York Jets, who come to south Florida with a 1-6 record. The major difference is the Jets were expected to at least be respectable this season, but numerous injuries and the loss of QB Sam Darnold to mononucleosis for three games have altered things. And then there are many other problems, such as Adam Gase’s coaching, disgruntled star safety Jamal Adams’ psyche and an injury-plagued offensive line that has struggled mightily to protect Darnold in the last two games, defeats to New England and Jackonville.
So it’s no wonder that Miami is the shortest-priced underdog it has been all season, with the spread sitting at Jets minus-3 at most outlets as of Saturday morning. As of Friday afternoon, 72 percent of wagerers at FanDuel sportsbook had taken the Jets minus the points, and the handle on pointspread bets similarly tilted to the Jets at 67 percent.
Fred Nathan, a betting analyst and expert for sports betting educational website Bet-NJ.com, said that as of Friday, 66 percent of the public money had come in on the Jets. He explained why the line is so low. when asked about the betting public’s perception of the Jets.
“Many Jets fans were excited at the start of this season, after a summer of change,” Nathan said. “But there’s been next to nothing to be enthused about so far, with injuries and heavy defeats leading to a 1-6 start.”
Nathan noted the Twitter video posted by star running back Le’Veon Bell imploring the fans to remain patient, and Nathan added, “It seems that they are running out of patience.”
Interestingly, Miami already is listed as a 15.5-point underdog at Indianapolis in the early lines posted for the Week 10 NFL games. If the line stays there, it would mark the sixth time in a span of eight games that the Dolphins were an underdog of at least two full touchdowns.
Nathan was asked what it will take for those lines to come down.
“If they could actually win a game,” he said, “I think it would change the betting perception of what they’re trying to do, whether they are trying to win every game or they are–I hate to use the word tanking–looking toward next season.”
