
# Video: Shah Rukh and Aryan Khan’s cute banter over a football game is the best thing on the internet today!

Published at: **2019-11-04T06:30:15+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/video-shah-rukh-and-aryan-khans-cute-banter-over-a-football-game-is-the-best-thing-on-the-internet-today/articleshow/71887353.cms)

We landed on the best throwback video today, which features one of Bollywood’s most popular father-son duos, Shah Rukh and Aryan Khan. The happy memory was shared by Maheep Kapoor on Instagram and showcases a cute banter between Shah Rukh Khan and Aryan during a game of football. Bollywood’s millennial brigade Ananya Kapoor and Shanaya Kapoor also feature in the clip. From an innocent Aryan asking SRK about his team strategy to Shanaya playing captain, this happy memory is for keeps.
From this star kid gang, Ananya Kapoor has already marked her debut in Bollywood with ‘Student of the Year 2’, which released this year. Shanaya is learning the tricks of the trade as she is assisting on Janhvi Kapoor starrer ‘Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl’.
However, Aryan is yet to make his mark in front of the camera. The star kid is studying in US and recently SRK revealed how his son isn’t keen on acting. On a chat show, Shah Rukh had stated that Aryan had once told him that he doesn’t want to act as he feels that he will be constantly compared to his superstar father and that he doesn’t want to be in that position.
