
# Seven Ways To Optimize Your Business Website

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Young Entrepreneur Council**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/theyec/2019/11/01/seven-ways-to-optimize-your-business-website/)

Have you been trying to increase your business site traffic, but you don’t know where and how to begin?To start, it’s essential to optimize your site for conversions and search engines. This helps your business get higher rankings in search engines and improves your overall site quality. Additionally, it improves the user experience.
In this post, I will share the steps you can take to optimize your business site to increase traffic.

        1. Analyze and audit.
      
The first step is to analyze your business website to diagnose the changes that must be made. Conduct an audit that summarizes site performance. During this process, your SEO team can evaluate the website’s content, navigation, aesthetics, back end SEO and layout.
Additionally, look at your competitors’ sites to assess the methods and features they have implemented, including site design, keywords and structure. Knowing your competitors’ strategies will assist you in determining your own optimization strategy.

        2. Make necessary site upgrades.
      
After you complete the SEO and site audit, make updates to your website that were deemed necessary. You want to create a lasting impression that motivates users to visit your website, stick around and come back later. The primary objective of making site updates is to entice users to act, whether that means filling out a form or contacting you. This comes down to designing a funnel that encourages users to take action with a clear call to action (CTA).
Many searches are conducted on a smartphone, so make sure your site is mobile-friendly. Page load speed can also have a significant impact on SEO.

        3. Conduct keyword research.
      
Keywords and phrases are the words people use when searching for information on search engines such as Google. Conduct keyword research to determine the most relevant search terms for your target audience. Including those keywords in front-facing content and the backend of your site will help your website rank higher on search engines.
However, it’s essential to remember that search engines will penalize your site for incorrect keyword positioning, such as keyword spamming. Understand these guidelines, and implement current industry best practices.

        4. Focus on back-end SEO.
      
Back-end SEO is an on-page approach that involves the HTML source code of your website pages. This comprises incorporating keywords into meta data, title tags, headers, description and URL structure to assist search engines in determining the content of each page of your site quickly.
Back-end SEO involves complex coding, so I recommend hiring an experienced SEO expert to implement this tactic effectively.

        5. Don’t forget about off-page SEO.
      
Off-page SEO is the technique of optimizing your site externally. Focus on maximizing your social media efforts, getting featured as a guest blogger on reputable sites, partnering with influencers relevant to your niche and link building.
Link building requires strategic digital communications to get top-notch links back to your site. If other websites that have high authority link back to your site, Google will interpret your website as more credible.

        6. Remember, content is king.
      
Top-notch content and link building are indeed essential to position your site in search engines. So, make sure you have a strong and SEO-driven content marketing plan. The more reputable posts you churn out, the more likely it is that other sites will link back to you. This will help you to increase your organic search ranking and bring more visitors to your website.
Content marketing might be intimidating for most businesses because it requires time, thought and strategy. Create a calendar that outlines what to write every week so you don’t fall behind.

        7. Analyze your site data.
      
A single piece of data may not show an effect, but when you accumulate lots of data, you begin to notice patterns. When a few people visit your website and fail to click on your CTA, that may not be a problem. However, if a huge percentage of users visiting your site fails to click on your CTA, it’s a sign that you need to make some amendments.
User habit reports and Google traffic data will assist you in painting a clear image. User habits will show you how users behave when they visit your website. Google Search Console will track essential metrics such as unique sessions, bounce rate and number of sessions.
Your website plays a vital role in lead generation for your business. Start by maintaining your conversion path and ensuring your content is of high quality. Optimize your business using the simple steps outlined above, and you’ll see your organic traffic improve over time.
