
# Phone scammers pose as Regina police; CRA scam surfaces again

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:18:05+00:00**

Author: **Regina Leader-Post**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/crime/phone-scammers-pose-as-regina-police)

The Regina Police Service (RPS) has issued a warning about phone scammers posing as officers.
Police said they got a report Monday from someone who reported having a call come in that showed up on caller ID as being from Regina police.
The caller allegedly identified themselves as a police officer and claimed there was a warrant out for the subject’s arrest. The fraudster then tried to get information, claiming it was to verify the subject’s identity.
When the person couldn’t provide the correct information, the caller asked them to make a payment using gift cards.
Police said the business selling the gift cards encouraged the person to contact Regina police to confirm if they’d asked for the payment, at which point it became clear the call was faked.
Police issued a warning Monday urging people to be cautious, as software that allows fraudsters to manipulate caller ID to appear to be from trusted people and organizations is readily available.
Anyone victimized by a phone scam was asked to call Regina police at 306-777-6500.
Meanwhile, police also warned about another scam making the rounds again.
This week, the RPS Communications Centre received an overwhelming number of calls from concerned residents reporting that they’d been contacted by someone claiming to work for the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) or Service Canada. Often the caller says the recipient is under investigation and he or she must co-operate by offering up their personal information, including their Social Insurance Number. The CRA does not conduct business that way and invites people to contact them directly if they have questions about their own accounts.
Police are reminding people to refrain from giving out your SIN or other personal and financial information over the phone. “If you receive such a call, do not be intimidated into giving personal information,” states a news release. Police advise to end the call and, if a person wants reassurance, contact the real CRA or Service Canada to inquire about any sort of audit or investigation.
Anyone who has already turned over a SIN to a caller is encouraged to the front of the RPS to make a report.
More information about recognizing scams is available at http://reginapolice.ca/resources/crime/crime-prevention-tips/recognize-a-scam/
Police advised that they get numerous calls each day regarding attempted phone fraud; they ask that people who receive a call from a scammer — but who have not shared any personal information or money — to refrain from contacting police.

        citydesk@leaderpost.com
      
