
# Cow Milk Contains Gold, Claims West Bengal BJP Leader Dilip Ghosh

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:30:52+00:00**

Author: **Rohini Chatterji**

Original: [HUFFPOST](https://www.huffingtonpost.in/entry/dilip-ghosh-cow-milk-gold_in_5dc12b60e4b0615b8a98ce4f)

We all know BJP leaders have a history of tweaking facts, especially when it comes to cows. Now, West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh has said that cow milk contains gold, and also said liberals should eat dog meat. 
The Indian Express quoted Ghosh as saying, “Desi cows have a hump on their back. Foreign breeds do not have humps and their backs are plain like that of a buffalo. The hump has ‘Swarna Nari’. When sunlight falls on the hump, it produces gold. That is why the milk of desi cow is yellowish or lightly golden. It contains gold. If one drinks only desi cow milk it is enough for sustenance.”
Ghosh made the false and bizarre remarks at a public meeting in West Bengal’s Burdwan on Monday. 
He also criticised section of intellectuals who ate beef as a mark of protest against BJP’s anti-beef policies. He also thought it would be ok for him to asked them to eat dog meat. According to News18, Ghosh said, “There are people who belong to the educative society and eat beef on roadside. Why cow? I would like to ask them to eat dog meat also. It is good for health. Eat other animals’ meat also. Who is stopping you? But eat at your home. Cow is our mother and we see cow killing as anti-social. There are people who keep foreign dogs at home and even clean their excreta. This is maha aparadh (grave sin).” 
Ghosh is not the first BJP leader to have claimed lofty things about cows. 
Earlier this year, BJP MP Pragya Thakur had claimed that her cancer had been cured thanks to cow urine. But doctors have maintained that there was no scientific evidence to support this. 
Multiple BJP leaders have meanwhile claimed that cows exhale oxygen. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat became the second BJP leader to make this claim. The claim was first made by Vasudev Devnani. “Gai ekmatra prani hai jo oxygen grahan karta hai, aur oxygen his chodta hai (The cow is the only animal that takes in oxygen and also releases oxygen),” he had said. This claim is, of course, not true. 
In 2016, in an interview with The Indian Express, Shankar Lal, president of Akhil Bharatiya Gau Sewa Sangh, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had claimed that fresh cow dung could protect people from harmful radiation. 
Shankar, 76, who claimed he drank cow urine for health reasons, told The Indian Express that he as well as other RSS workers, apply cow dung on the back of their cellphones to protect themselves from radiation.
“It is fresh cow dung. I have put it to save myself from the harmful radiations of the cellphone. It works, believe me,” Lal told the newspaper. “If cow dung can treat cancer, why can’t it save us from a phone’s microwaves?”
