
# Mothercare jobs at risk as company plunges into administration

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:02:41+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Morrow, Neil Murphy, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/daniel-morrow/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/mothercare-jobs-risk-company-plunges-20806767)

Jobs at Mothercare stores in Scotland have been put at risk after the company’s UK retail business plunged into administration.
The firm was subject to a number of closures across the country last year after it made a loss of £36.3 million.
Earlier this year, Mothercare warned of a “challenging period” after it announced that online sales fell by 16.3 per cent, reports the Mirror .
The company, which has branches in Edinburgh , Aberdeen, Glasgow, Dundee and Falkirk, has announced its intent to get administrators in to balance the books.
 
A spokesperson for Mothercare said: “Mothercare announces that Notices of Intent to appoint administrators to the Company's active trading subsidiary, Mothercare UK Limited and Mothercare Business Services Limited, which provides certain services to Mothercare UK, are being filed with the court today.
"It is emphasised that the company and its other subsidiaries are not covered by these notices of intent. The group, Mothercare UK and MBS will be free to continue to trade in the normal course of business.”
The Mothercare UK franchise run its stores and website independently of Mothercares in other parts of the world.
By the end of March 2019, the chain's business store count had fallen from 137 in May 2018 to 79.
Last month it called in restructuring experts from accountancy giant KPMG, in a move that could place the future of its last 79 stores on the line.
 
"Since May 2018, we have undertaken a root and branch review of the Group and Mothercare UK within it, including a number of discussions over the summer with potential partners regarding our UK Retail business ," Mothercare said today.
"Through this process, it has become clear that the UK Retail operations of the Group, which today includes 79 stores, are not capable of returning to a level of structural profitability and returns that are sustainable for the Group as it currently stands and/or attractive enough for a third party partner to operate on an arm's length basis. Furthermore, the Company is unable to continue to satisfy the ongoing cash needs of Mothercare UK.
"These notices of intent to appoint administrators in respect of Mothercare UK and MBS are a necessary step in the restructuring and refinancing of the Group. Plans are well advanced and being finalised for execution imminently. A further announcement will be made in due course."
