
# Two young boys found dead inside Brampton, Ont. home

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Kayla Goodfield, Multi-Platform Writer, CTV News Toronto**

Original: [toronto.ctvnews.ca](https://toronto.ctvnews.ca/two-young-boys-found-dead-inside-brampton-ont-home-1.4673951)

TORONTO – A nine-year-old boy and a 12-year-old boy were found dead inside a Brampton, Ont. home late Wednesday night.
Emergency crews were called to a residence on Hiberton Crescent, located in the area of Sandalwood Parkway West and Creditview Road, shortly before 11 p.m. for a medical assistance call that came from inside the home.
Upon arrival at the scene, officers said they located the two young boys. They were pronounced dead at the scene.
“In this particular case, I think it’s going to touch a lot of people in the fact that we have two young boys who are deceased and I think even as police officers, this isn’t something that we enjoy doing but we have a job to do and that’s what we are doing today,” Const. Heather Cannon told reporters at the scene on Thursday morning.
“That’s why we want to figure out what happened and who is responsible.”
Few details have been released in the investigation thus far, but several police cruisers and forensic officers were seen canvassing the area collecting evidence on Thursday morning.
The cause of death for the young boys has not been released by officials.
“It’s still early on with that so our investigators are still investigating and canvassing and speaking with people, but as far as the actual cause of death, we are not speaking to that at this point,” Cannon said.
“It’s hard during an investigation like this – there are things that we won’t be speaking to just to maintain the integrity of the investigation.”
Investigators have not announced any arrests in the case, but said they are speaking with the occupants of the home.
“As far as the relationship to the boys and those who were in the house, we are not speaking to that at this point because it’s early on and we are trying to maintain the integrity of the investigation,” Cannon added.
The constable said, to her knowledge, that no weapons have been recovered.
