
# Two Red Cards, No Goals, Bucs Drop Points

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/absa-premiership-report-orlando-pirates-v-maritzburg-united-05-november-2019/666808)


        Absa Premiership
      
Result: Orlando Pirates 0-0 Maritzburg United
Date: 05 November 2019
Venue: Orlando Stadium
Orlando Pirates' stuttering form in the Absa Premiership continued following a goalless draw with Maritzburg United at Orlando Stadium, where both sides finished with 10 men.
With Thembinkosi Lorch and Mthokozisi Dube missing through suspension, Gabadinho Mhango and Abel Mabaso were drafted into the line-up as Fortune Makaringe lined up against his former side for the first time since joining Pirates.

        
          View The PSL Table
        
      
Maritzburg were certainly the team on form heading into the encounter, but there was a re-call for on-loan Mamelodi Sudowns striker Jeremy Brockie alongside former Buccaneer Thabiso Kutumela.
Despite the visitors' form, it was Pirates who started the brighter of the two sides and they could have been a couple goals up in the opening 15 minutes had it not been for Kabelo Dlamini's poor finishing.
Maritzburg, meanwhile, had to wait until the half-hour mark for their first opening as a long throw from Dan Morgan found Rushine de Reuck, who steered a header over the crossbar from close range.
Richard Ofori ensured the sides went into the halftime break level pegging as the the Team of Choice shot-stopper proved his worth by denying Vincent Pule from 10-yards out, while Happy Jele denied Kutumela with a superb block at the other end.
With the Buccaneers struggling in the final third upon resumption of the second half, coach Rhulani Mokwena instilled a double change just before the hour mark as Augustine Mulenga and Justin Shonga replaced Tshegofatso Mabasa and Dlamini.
It went a bit pear-shaped for the home side minutes later after being reduced to 10 men when Jele received his second yellow card for a late challenge on Kutumela. He will now miss the Soweto derby on Saturday.
However, the odds were evened up with 12 minutes remaining in the second half as Maritzburg's Kwanda Mngonyama was given his marching orders for a second bookable offence.
Pirates thought they had bagged the winner in the final 10 minutes when Shonga rattled the upright, although the ball was not deemed to have crossed the line.
In the end, Maritzburg were able to see out the closing stages of the second half to deny Pirates victory and claim a valuable point on the road.

        Here's how they lined up:
      
Pirates: 30. Sandilands, 23. Maela, 4. Jele, 5. Nyauza, 27. Motshwari, 44. Mabaso, 45. Pule, 15. Makaringe, 18. Dlamini, 7. Mhango, 16. Mabasa.
Subs: 40. Mpontshane, 18. Chabalala, 37. Mbekile, 29. Mako, 20. Mlambo, 17. Mulenga, 12. Shonga.
Maritzburg: 30. Ofori, 25. Xulu, 36. Kunene, 5. Morgan, 23. De Reuck, 4. Allie, 45. Mngonyama, 14. Claasen, 26. Shandu, 7. Kutumela, 11. Brockie.
Subs: 31. Mpandle, 4. Sanoka, 19. Moseamedi, 29. Mekoa, 15. Timm, 8. Buchanan, 17. Augusto.
