
# Ultherapy: Everything You Need To Know About The Non Invasive Face Lift That Works

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bianca Salonga**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/biancasalonga/2019/11/01/ultherapy-everything-you-need-to-know-about-the-non-invasive-face-lift-that-works/)

A complete face lift without down time or incisions sounded like an overpromise on the onset. The year was 2016 and although there had already been numerous advancements in cosmetic procedures and surgeries, I had yet to see and experience a treatment that would truly yield results—and long term, too. An Ultherapy treatment had been scheduled upon recommendation of a work colleague entrenched in the business of beauty. Dermatologists, practitioners of cosmetic surgery and beauty experts were raving about this breakthrough, non invasive face lift. “Goodbye fine lines, jowls and sagging skin,” I was assured. The science behind this miracle, at least to me, was hard to visualize let alone comprehend. Three things, however, sealed the deal.

        Firmer and Lifted.
      
Using state-of-the-art micro focused ultrasound technology, Ultherapy effectively lifts and tightens skin. Areas of focus for the treatment included brow, neck and jawline. The treatment also visibly diminished the appearance of fines lines and wrinkles on general areas.
A product by Merz Pharma, Ultherapy was cleared and certified by the FDA as the only-non invasive face lifting procedure. During a recent convention of dermatologists and cosmetic surgeons in the Philippines, Merz CEO Philip Burchard shared insight on the technology that makes Ultheraphy an efficient and effective way to lift the face.
“Remember when as a child you would take a magnifying glass and burn paper? That’s what the machine does with the ultrasound,” began Burchard. “The burn is below the skin and skin cells start creating collagen to repair this very little burn. That’s how collagen is generated.” He expounds that this process of making small burns beneath the skin  “activates the body and one’s own physiology and processes.”

        Non Invasive and Relatively Pain Free.
      
Ultrasound technology also helps the physician to “see and then treat the deepest support layers without cutting or disrupting the surface.” Whether it is painful or not will depend on one’s tolerance for discomfort. Myself having zero threshold for pain, topical numbing cream had been administered 45 minutes pre treatment. It brought relief and ease especially towards the tail end of the treatment. Generally, there is burning sensation on the deep layers of skin as the probe goes over parts of the face, neck and décolleté.
There are those, unlike myself, who find Ultherapy treatments rather soothing and relaxing. “We’re working on technological improvements. Sometimes, Ultherapy can be a little painful.” Burchard explains the current protocol pre and post treatment. “You’ll have a numbing cream before, but then you’ll have a soothing cream that you’ll apply afterwards. So there’s a whole regimen before and after the treatment recommended by physicians in collaboration with us.”
Here’s the thing: Regardless of the pain or discomfort, the fact that Ultherapy does not require invasive incisions or cuts still makes it the ideal option for getting a face lift. Burchard adds that they team at Merz is also currently finding a way to make the treatments more time efficient. “It usually takes over an hour, especially if you do a full face. We also want to shorten that.”

        No Downtime, Just Lasting Results.
      
You can literally go to the gym or head out for dinner and drinks right after your Ultherapy treatment. Effects the following days may vary from person to person. There are those who experience swelling and soreness. In general, however, life goes on. Effects are not immediately visible but they are subtle, natural-looking, progressive and lasting.
“For people who have lost contours, like on the jaw line, when you treat it with Ultherapy, you’ll gain these contours a little bit again—overtime,” said Burchard. “Collagen generates slowly, but it will happen again over several months.” After treatment, texture and quality of skin significantly improves. “It (skin) becomes tighter and lifted. It takes about three months before you see the full effect. Changes are subtle and gradual.” Before patients undergo Ultherapy photos are taken as reference to see the progress in results. “When you take pictures again after six or eight months, you will see the difference.” Collagen growth is gradual so one treatment is good for an entire year.
Since it was launched in 2015, Ultherapy has become one of the most popular and in-demand treatments in the Philippines. Women—and men—from a wide age range have tried  and attested to how effective Ultherapy is. Testimonials from celebrities have also contributed to the popularity of the treatment. Philip shared, “Beauty endorsers, lifestyle, celebrities such as Kris Aquino, Christy Brinkley in the United States, and they started talking about it, how they successfully used the product. You’d also have the occasional Hollywood actress or actor, saying ‘I actually did the Ultherapy treatment,’ all on their own so it started to become more and more known for patients and physicians.”
There are now over 60 clinics around the county that offer Ultherapy, including the Aivee Institute at Bonifacio Global City. He opined that the Ultherapy phenomenon was created through “a combination of science, marketing, promotion and selling to the doctor.” According to Burchard, the Merz team began by connecting with physicians. “That was the first important step—to work with capable people who know the business of aesthetic business, who understand what the patients need.” At medical conferences or symposiums, interest and curiosity was raised among respected practitioners. “Then we got very important practices using it like in various countries like here in the Philippines… when they began using it, word of Ultherapy began to spread.” Testimonials, especially from famous personalities, also contributed to Ulthera’s popularity. The key element, however, that makes it the most sought after procedure in well-established clinics across Asia Pacific, is the simple fact that it works. Merz CEO, Philip Burchard closes, “The ultimate satisfaction is when we hear from physicians that patients find new confidence when they look in the mirror and they had a little bit of nice treatment. Its impacts on their psyche and overall well being.”

        
          Ultherapy is a product by Merz Pharma. Ask your dermatologist or cosmetic surgeon about it.
        
      
