
# Frankenstein review – Shelley's story malfunctions under weight of new ideas

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:56:07+00:00**

Author: **Arifa Akbar**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/stage/2019/nov/05/frankenstein-review-southwark-playhouse-london)


        Southwark Playhouse, LondonVR headsets and a gender switch give National Youth Theatre’s exuberant production a modern twist, but the storytelling feels gimmicky
      
‘The human era is coming to an end,” we are told in Carl Miller’s adaptation of Mary Shelley’s gothic thriller, which explores the futuristic frontiers of artificial intelligence. The question for Dr Frankenstein is whether, in this approach to post-human society, machines can learn not only to act human but to feel as we can.
This exuberant production from the National Youth Theatre’s Rep company bursts with contemporary twists and takes on Shelley’s classic, though they feel imperfectly realised. The central gender switch is a simple yet clever one: Victor Frankenstein becomes Victoria (Ella Dacres) and her monster is the female Shell (Sarah Lusack). There is same-sex attraction, too, and transpositions that feel topical: the blind man’s family who live in exile in a woodland cottage and are observed by Frankenstein’s monster with such yearning in the book, appear here as unsettled, modern-day refugees fleeing war.
While these innovations work well, the overall effect is of a show crowded out by its own, not always metabolised ideas: Emily Gray’s production stays faithful to Shelley’s multi-narrative text with characters relaying their stories and letters being spoken aloud though headphones. It is difficult to keep up with this competing palimpsest of narratives, some interrupting others in lightning-quick scenes so that the various threads become confusing.
Ancillary characters explain the plot in clunky ways, such as Frankenstein’s sister, who tells us that their father died and that Victoria had “mental health issues”. The theme is over-explained, too: “We are all data now,” says one character. “What is the difference between a human and a machine?” asks another. Lines are also spoken too vigorously and stripped of subtlety and emotion.
Dr Frankenstein’s endeavour to create a machine that can experience emotions is, in the end, her undoing. Her creation overrides its programming to enact psychotic vengeance on its creator. Lusack’s monster is not outwardly a monster at all but resembles a Terminator-style android, with her perfect semblance of humanness and a dead-eyed blankness beneath.
Hannah Wolfe’s set is a stylised vision of dystopia with its desolate landscape of blinking lights and scaffolding. But the stylised nature of the storytelling itself feels feverish and gimmicky, particularly the last part, which requires the audience to don VR headsets. This is a production that is trying to do new things with Shelley’s story and not quite succeeding; less, in this case, might have been more.
• At Southwark Playhouse, London, until 30 November.
