
# Family treats Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli as trekkers and not as famous personalities; actress shares the experience!

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:01:31+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/family-treats-anushka-sharma-and-virat-kohli-as-trekkers-and-not-as-famous-personalities-actress-shares-the-experience/articleshow/71911987.cms)

Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli have been giving us major couple goals for a long time now. The duo shares pictures and videos of them having a good time together on their respective social media handles.
And today, Anushka took to her Instagram to share an experience which she had during her recent trek with her hubby Virat. The actress uploaded a picture of them posing with a family in their sweet home. In her long caption, she revealed what exactly happened during her trek. She wrote that a family offered a cup of tea to both of them as they looked tired after a long trek. Anushka also added that the family had no idea that she is an actress and Virat is Indian cricket team's captain. It read, "Today , during our 8.5 km uphill trek we stopped by a small village on a mountain to pet and feed a baby calf who was born just 4 months ago . While we did that the owner of the house asked us if we were tired and wanted to have a cup of tea ? So we went in to the home of this beautiful and warm family who had absolutely no idea who we were and yet they treated us with such warmth and love . We spent some time with them chatting and drinking tea and the whole time they just know us as two tired trekkers !
Whoever knows virat and me very closely, know that both of us live for such moments of genuine , simple & pure human connection . It fills us with such joy and peace knowing that they just wanted to be kind to two random foreigners ( plus our guide ) without seeking anything in return. If this is not the true meaning of life then i dont know what is . A memory we will cherish forever 🙏💜✨"
Check out the post here:
Meanwhile, on the work front, she was last seen in Aanand L Rai's 'Zero' co-starring Shah Rukh Khan and Katrina Kaif. It is being reported that she will star in Farah Khan's 'Satte Pe Satta' remake.
