
# Love Island's X Factor stars needed therapy to work through their trust issues

Published at: **2019-11-01T03:11:28+00:00**

Author: **Kelly Allen**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/love-islands-x-factor-stars-20785827)

You would have thought all that time in the Love Island villa might have brought the Celebrity X Factor group No Love Lost closer together.
Apparently not. Mentor Simon Cowell has sent Wes Nelson , Zara McDermott , Samira Mighty and Eyal Booker to therapy to work on their “trust issues” with each other.
“Simon called in professional therapists,” explains an insider.
“There are a few problems behind the scenes which need to be ironed out, and so the pros were involved who could address these issues and make them more of a unit.”
One bonding exercise involved the All or Nothing singers being blindfolded, falling backwards and trusting the others to catch them. But model and influencer Eyal, 24, denied a rift.
He revealed: “Despite us spending 16 hours together a day and writing our own tracks in the studio until after midnight, the show got us doing some bonding exercises.
“We found the whole thing hilarious. We didn’t think we could get any closer – but it goes to show we are the strongest we’ve ever been as a band.”
 
They need as much help as they can get. Bookmakers Coral have revealed No Love Lost are 2-1 to be given the chop.
Interviewer Martin Bashir is facing worse odds of 1-2, while TOWIE star Megan McKenna has odds of 50-1 she will be next to leave the ITV show.
Perhaps those falling exercises will help prepare the Love Islanders if they do crash out on Saturday.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at  webtv@trinitymirror.com  or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
