
# 20 photographs of the week

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:48:36+00:00**

Author: **Jim Powell**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/gallery/2019/nov/02/20-photographs-of-the-week)


        Wildfires in California, protests in Basra and Barcelona and the Day of the Dead – the past seven days, as captured by the world’s best photojournalists
      
High winds fuel hot embers from a burning oak tree near Windsor. The Kincade fire has burned more than 75,000 acres, an area twice the size of San Francisco.
Photograph: Peter Dasilva/EPA
Ranchers evacuate horses at a burning ranch as the Easy fire spreads near Simi Valley.
Photograph: Étienne Laurent/EPA
A wild elephant stops a car on a road at Khao Yai national park.
Photograph: Pratya Chutipaskul/AFP/Getty Images
A woman shouts at police officers during clashes in Barcelona. Around 350,000 people had protested peacefully against the imprisonment of nine Catalan separatist leaders for their roles in an illegal 2017 secession bid before the clashes occurred.
Photograph: Bernat Armangué/AP
Iraqi students take part in an anti-government demonstration in front of their university in the centre of the southern city of Basra. Recent protests in Iraq began as demonstrations about unemployment and corruption and evolved into demands for regime change.
Photograph: AFP/Getty Images
Men suspected of being affiliated with Islamic State are held in a prison cell in the northeastern Syrian city of Hasakeh. Kurdish sources said that around 12,000 IS fighters including Syrians, Iraqis and foreigners from 54 countries are detained in Kurdish-run prisons in northern Syria.
Photograph: Fadel Senna/AFP/Getty Images
This still image from video released by the US Department of Defence shows US commandoes advancing on the compound of Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.
Photograph: Jose Romero/US Department of Defense/AFP/Getty Images
A Syrian boy looks at a convoy of US armoured vehicles patrolling fields near the northeastern town of Qahtaniyah at the border with Turkey. US forces accompanied by Kurdish fighters of the Syrian Democratic Forces patrolled part of the border for the first time since Washington withdrew troops from the area last month.
Photograph: Delil Souleiman/AFP/Getty Images
A rider competes in the Gotland grand national enduro race at Tofta airport near Visby.
Photograph: Soren Andersson/TT News Agency/AFP/Getty Images
Lava from the ‘piton de la fournaise’ flows down the east-south-east face of the volcano on the Indian Ocean island of Reunion.
Photograph: Richard Bouhet/AFP/Getty Images
Demonstrators hide behind a chipboard panel during clashes with riot police at a protest against government economic policies. Chilean President Sebastián Piñera unveiled a major cabinet reshuffle as he struggles to find a response to more than a week of street protests that have left at least 20 people dead.
Photograph: Martin Bernetti/AFP/Getty Images
Riot police walk past a woman wearing Halloween make-up as they advance towards protesters in Hong Kong.
Photograph: Kim Kyung Hoon/Reuters
A bull cart transports goods from a boat at the Japanma jetty in Kyaukphyu.
Photograph: Ye Aung Thu/AFP/Getty Images
Participants perform during the annual Day of the Dead parade in Mexico City.
Photograph: Gustavo Graf/Reuters
Filipinos visit the graves of their departed relatives and loved ones at a public cemetery as they mark All Saints’ Day in Manila.
Photograph: Ezra Acayan/Getty Images
John Hamilton, vice-president and chief engineer of Boeing, and chief executive Dennis Muilenburg look back at family members holding photographs of Boeing 737 crash victims as they testify before a Senate commerce, science and transportation committee hearing.
Photograph: Sarah Silbiger/Reuters
Le Minh Tuan, father of 30-year old Le Van Ha, who is feared to be among the 39 people found dead inside a truck in England, cries while holding Ha’s son outside their house in Vietnam’s Nghe An province.
Photograph: Nhac Nguyen/AFP/Getty Images
Security forces detain a demonstrator during anti-government protests in Concepción.
Photograph: José Luis Saavedra/Reuters
People walk on the bridge over the river Garry in Pitlochry.
Photograph: Russell Cheyne/Reuters
A general view of Kathmandu during the Diwali festival, also known as the Tihar celebration. The festival celebrates the victory of light over darkness.
Photograph: Narendra Shrestha/EPA
