
# Arsenal Star Dropped After Apology To Supporters

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:58:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/granit-xhaka-left-out-of-squad-after-apology-to-supporters/666559)

Despite apologising to the Arsenal supporters for his outburst last week, Granit Xhaka will not feature in the Gunners' next game, according to Unai Emery.

        
          Read: 9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
The Swiss allegedly swore and made a gesture to the Gunners fans after he was taken off in the 2-2 draw against Crystal Palace last weekend at the Emirates Stadium.
Xhaka missed the Carabao Cup loss to Liverpool during the week, and Emery has revealed the midfielder will miss Saturday's clash against Wolverhampton Wanderers.
"The first is the person, the human. Like everyone he feels, Xhaka, with his issues, needs time to recover normality," Emery said.
"He said sorry, he gave the apology to the supporters and to everybody. Now is the focus on the match. He is training with normality with the team.
"We were waiting on Monday and Tuesday (to sort out the captaincy).
"It is not in my mind that he will play tomorrow. I am thinking tomorrow he is not going to play.
"Now we need to be focused 100 per cent only on the match. We are going to do the training today but at the moment it is not in my mind.
"I want to speak about the players who are going to play."

        
          Read: Arsenal's Stance On Mourinho Revealed?
        
      
Do you think Xhaka should remain Arsenal's captain? Have your say in the comment section below.
