
# Slaven Bilic is making me a West Brom fan - and he's taking Baggies back to Premier League

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ian Holloway, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/ian-holloway/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/slaven-bilic-making-west-brom-20826010)

I had the pleasure of meeting Slaven Bilic last week. Woah what a fella! I was absolutely captivated in his company. It was marvellous.
Would I bet against West Brom getting promoted? I don't think I would. Anyone who finishes either one place above them or one place below is going to be very close to being promoted.
They are going to be in that shake-up and I think they are going to be one of the two to go up.
I wasn't sure about saying that in the summer because I wasn't sure how it was there, but I have no doubts after meeting him, seeing how they work on the training ground and meeting the lads.
I wouldn't say they are running away with the title but they are looking very consistent which is the secret to the Championship.
It is about building that and getting the atmosphere right and I think Slaven is doing it to a tee.
The scoreline against Stoke didn't tell the story of the game; they were too comfortable. But there are other teams up there who I think will cause some problems - it is about sustaining your quality throughout, week-in week-out, game-in game-out and three games a week especially with Christmas coming up.
What I was impressed with is that they had to catch-up. They started fifth or fourth and that didn't faze them. Nothing fazed them.
I think that is all down to the manager. He filled me with confidence and I don't even play for him.
When I sat with him and listened to him it was fantastic. He is the secret behind the solidness they seem to have.

        
          Ian Holloway is a pundit on EFL on Quest throughout the season. Quest is the home of EFL highlights broadcasting every round of fixtures across the leagues. Also available on desktop and app via dplay
        
      
It can go awry for different reasons and West Ham had that big move and that is tough for anybody. But he finished seventh in the Premier League and I can understand why.
He has been an international manager for Croatia and the talent he had himself as a player.
When you talk to him it isn't about talent but hard work, being realistic in what you can achieve and what you have to do to achieve it.
I was so impressed with him it was unbelievable. I was so impressed he has made me a West Brom fan!
Middlesbrough spent a lot of money a couple of years ago and now they are having to redo it again.
It works in phases for them and I hope they are patient with Jonathan Woodgate.
I was talking to Jonathan recently and I would have wanted to play for him. I like the way he is developing his own coaching.
He proved something to me something I didn't realise. In my first two jobs, I had five years each time at Bristol Rovers and QPR.
I wonder what he can do in five years. It took Sir Alex Ferguson four years to win anything at Man Utd!
I was with Tony Pulis the other week and he thinks Jonathan is going to be a magnificent coach but he needs time. Look at his playing career. Let's just give him a chance.
Unfortunately Boro have found it very difficult to score at the right time.
They lost Amanda Traore and Patrick Bamford and they haven't bought anyone to replace them. If you look at the players they have lost even the ones Pulis had to let go they are rebuilding. It will be another couple of years before they get another influx. That seems how it goes for Mr Gibson and his businesses.
Unfortunately you have to play that part. You can't want it too much and put the pressure on the players to deliver. If they're struggling you need to support them.
Preston are a surprise to me.
Alex Neil is good. He's a winner. He has that streak in him.
Their budget, which is small, can be like none of the others. It is a magnificent job that Alex is doing. I hope he stays where he is in the table.
I believe he's got a good squad and a good thing going there.
They have a sprinkling of senior players and some young ones. They have bought well over the last few years. It is a great model to look at and he is doing it really well.
Preston is a big club but we'll have to wait and see.
Am I surprised they are that high up? Not really, I thought they would be in and around it but they have had a really consistent start and are doing really well. I hope it continues for them.
