
# Gardaí questioning man, 27, after body of boy found in Limerick

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:15:00+00:00**

Author: **By David Raleigh**

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/ireland/gardai-questioning-man-27-after-body-of-boy-found-in-limerick-961653.html)

Update 12:15pm: The Garda Technical Bureau has arrived at a house in Limerick where a boy was found dead last night.
The garda forensic unit travelled from Dublin this morning and will conduct a detailed examination of the house.
Gardaí are holding an internal conference this morning to decide on how their investigation will proceed.
The body of the boy, believed to be 11-years-old, remains at the scene at Ballynanty.
The state pathologist is due to arrive at the property later today to carry out a preliminary examination of the body.
A post mortem will take place later at University Hospital Limerick.
A 27-year old man was arrested by gardaí in connection with the boy’s death.
The man is still being questioned.

        Dublin hotel that has been shut for almost a decade bought by Austrian investor
      
Gardaí said in a statement last night that they are investigating all of the circumstances of his death.
Many locals said today they were “too shocked” and “traumatised” to speak about the tragedy.

        - Digital Desk staff
      
A man in his late 20s has been arrested after the body of a boy was found in Limerick city.
Gardaí said the boy's body was discovered at a house in the Ballynanty area of the county, shortly after 7pm.
The 11 year-old was pronounced dead at the scene a short time later.
Gardaí said that they are investigating all of the circumstances of his death.
A man in his late 20s was arrested by investigating gardaí, following the discovery.
He is currently detained under Section 4 of the Criminal Justice Act, 1984 at Henry Street Garda Station.
The scene is preserved for a forensic and technical examination and the services of both the Office of the State Pathologist and Garda Technical Bureau have been requested.
The investigation is ongoing.

        Man injured in Dublin shooting
      
