
# Nestlé Recalls Ready-To-Bake Refrigerated Cookie Dough After Rubber Found In Some Products

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:43:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/food-cocktails/a29668817/nestle-cookie-dough-rubber-recall/)

Everyone’s favorite secret-not-so-secret hobby of eating raw cookie dough just got even more dangerous—on top of, you know, the whole salmonella thing. Nestlé USA is recalling a slew of its refrigerated ready-to-bake cookie-dough products after rubber was found in some packages.
Importantly, there have been no reported illnesses or injuries, so it’s not totally clear how Nestlé came to realize it was selling ready-to-bake rubber chip cookies. Furthermore, as Fox 8 in Cleveland reports, this is a voluntary recall, meaning the company is taking responsibility and jumping into action to get any possibly affected items off shelves.
“Nestlé USA is taking this action out of an abundance of caution after receiving reports of food-grade pieces of rubber in some of these products,” the company said in a statement, according to Newsweek. “We have identified the source of the rubber and have already fixed the issue.”
To figure out if you’ve got one of these products in your fridge, check to see if your Nestlé ready-to-bake item has a batch code that begins with numbers between 9189 and 9295. Newsweek has a tip if you don’t know where to look for a batch code: It can be found after the “use or freeze by” date and before the number “5753.”
Here’s a list of all products that included in the recall:
What’s not included? Nestlé Toll House Morsels, Nestlé Toll House Ice Cream Sandwiches, and Nestlé Toll House Edible Cookie Dough. So, you can safely eat cookie dough, and you can also make some cookies from scratch with chocolate chips.
Related Story

        14 Unexpected Ways to Eat Cookie Dough
      
From: Delish US
