
# Furious Lazio Ultras plan Celtic 'headache' as they announce Europa League protest plans

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:04:18+00:00**

Author: **Mark Walker**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/furious-lazio-ultras-plan-celtic-20787075)

Lazio Ultras have vowed to give Celtic supporters a 'headache' during their Euro return clash on Thursday.
The La Voce Della Nord (Voice of the North) will delay their entrance into the Stadio Olimpico until kick-off as a protest against UEFA's sanctions over racist and fascist chanting before turning up the noise.
Celtic will be backed by 9,000 fans travelling to Italy for the game with more expected to make the trip to the Eternal City.
The Europa League tie has been earmarked as a high risk game and officials of both clubs have already met amid rising tensions between supporters caused by last week's encounter in Glasgow.
Lazio fans marched through Glasgow giving Roman Salutes and Celtic fans depicted Italy's fascist war leader Benito Mussolini being hanged upside down with the message 'Follow Your Leader.' Both teams were sanctioned by the European governing body.
The hosts were ordered by UEFA to close their Curva Nord section of the ground where the Ultras gather because of previous fascist salutes in their home match against Rennes.
But their fans stated: "As history teaches us, the Lazio fan is always a sensation and is always an easy target for authority.
"That is why on Thursday against Celtic they closed the doors of our house - the Curva Nord.
"But this has presented us with a challenge - we can't allow them to make us strangers at our own home. We will never leave our beloved Lazio.
"So on Thursday at kick off, we will all gather at the Tribuna Tevere with scarves on and march into the ground, raise a wall of noise and sing for 90 minutes.
"Let's give the Celtic fans a headache and let's show the world what Lazio are all about. We will scream our anger at this decision for 90 minutes and taste victory.
"We will never bow our heads because Lazio are invincible."
