
# Cadbury retracts statement on Hot Chocolate Drink, says it’s still available

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:34:40+00:00**

Author: **Emmanuel Abara Benson**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/06/cadbury-retracts-statement-on-hot-chocolate-drink-says-its-still-available/)

The Corporate Communications and Government Affairs Manager of Cadbury Nigeria Plc, Frederick Mordi, has reacted to an article published, yesterday, on Nairametrics. The article in question quoted the company’s Consumer Conversations Coordinator, Martha Ogbu, who said the production of Cadbury’s Hot Chocolate Drink was halted.
Cadbury Nigeria Plc has now retracted that statement by Ogbu, thereby changing its position on the availability of the product. According to Mordi, the Hot Chocolate Drink has, indeed, not been discontinued.

        “Our attention has been drawn to an article titled: ‘Cadbury’s Hot Chocolate Drink is Scarce, and Border Closure Could be Responsible.’… We wish to reassure our consumers that we will continue to delight them with our Cadbury Hot Chocolate 3 in 1 Drink.”
      

        [READ: Cadbury’s Hot Chocolate Drink is scarce, and border closure could be responsible]
      
Meanwhile, the company did not deny that the Hot Chocolate Drink is currently scarce in the market. Their latest response also did not deny that the Nigerian Government’s decision to shut down its land borders is partly responsible for the shortage. Due to the reported scarcity, the price of the product has suddenly gone from N80 to N100 across most retail shops in mainland Lagos.
Cadbury’s Hot Chocolate Drink is a three-in-one chocolate drink that contains sugar and, of course, chocolate. The product comes in sachets, a new type of product packaging which really moves market among Nigeria’s low-income earners.
The product is manufactured in Ghana by Cadbury Ghana Limited and sold in Nigeria where it competes mainly against Cowbell Chocolate which is manufactured by Promasidor Nigeria Limited.
In the meantime, Cadbury Nigeria Plc’s share price commenced trading today at N9.60 on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. There was no change in its share price from yesterday’s trading activities on the Nigerian bourse.
