
# JJ Watt explains love of Chelsea and the Premier League after suffering season-ending injury

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Keith Webster, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/keith-webster/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/american-sports/jj-watt-explains-love-chelsea-20797926)

JJ Watt saw his chance to play at Wembley on Sunday and his Super Bowl dream go up in smoke last week, with a season-ending injury against Oakland.
But at least the Houston Texans star will now be able to devote more time to his other sporting passion – the Premier League, and his ­beloved Chelsea FC.
Watt turned professional eight years ago, in the same season Chelsea were crowned kings of Europe.
And the man who is ­respected for his sporting ability and revered for his ­charity work, still remembers how the goal hero that night in 2012, Didier Drogba, turned him on to football, ­Premier League-style.
The 6ft 5in, 21st defensive end, who is engaged to ­Houston Dash midfielder, Kealia Ohai, said: “Once it started to get prominent on TV in America, I started to watch it. They would show it on Saturdays and it’s the first thing on in the morning.
 
“I didn’t know anything about the teams, the ­traditions, the history, the ­rivalries.
“But I visited Stamford Bridge and got to see Chelsea play – I got to see Drogba’s last game as a Blue.
“I really started to get into it then, started researching, and I fell in love with it.
“I mean I truly, absolutely love watching Premier League every single weekend.
“Two weeks ago sucked ­because it was international break, but it doesn’t matter to me if it’s top of the table or bottom of the table.
“I’ll watch Newcastle play Sheffield United.
“I just watched the Leeds United documentary, and that was cool. It was all about the Championship.
“I watched Sunderland Till I Die. I watch everything.”
Watt, who will miss today’s Wembley showdown against Jacksonville with a pectoral injury, became a national icon in 2017 when he raised $37million for Houston flood victims of Hurricane Harvey.
He is rewarded handsomely for his dominant presence on the field, and is in the middle of a six-year $100m contract extension.
But don’t ask him to choose the NFL over the ­Premier League, when he turns on his TV.
“It’s Premier League, by far,” he said. “I love watching it. Right now I love watching Teemu Pukki. He’s so much fun and he just scores goals.”
Watt’s fundraising after the flood disaster helped build more than 1,100 homes and provide 239 million meals to victims, but Watt said he was humbled by the response to his efforts.
He added: “It was a time I hope we never have to go through again and it was also a time when I witnessed the absolute best in humanity.
“I witnessed what people are willing to do for their neighbour and for complete strangers.
“People from all over the world stepped up to help out. It was a time of great hope for me. There’s such negativity in the world and we got to ­witness some incredible ­positivity.”
