
# Cuts to education mean students will lose teachers, get shuffled into other classes midway through school year

Published at: **2019-11-07T02:04:58+00:00**

Author: **Eva Ferguson**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/cuts-to-education-mean-students-will-lose-teachers-get-shuffled-into-other-classes-midway-through-school-year)

As public schools look to make up a $32-million funding shortfall before Christmas, union leaders say students can expect to lose their former teachers and get shuffled into different, larger classrooms by early next year.
Officials with the Calgary Board of Education announced their reaction to the UCP’s 2019 budget this week, estimating that provincial cuts to classroom grants could result in the loss of as many as 320 positions, including teachers, educational assistants and support staff.
“It is unprecedented to see something like this happen midway through a school year,” said Bob Cocking, president, Calgary Public Teachers, ATA Local 38. “The process will be very disruptive.”
Cocking explains that the loss of one Grade 5 teacher with a class of 30 students, for instance, could mean that half of those students are shuffled into a Grade 4 classroom, while the other half are shuffled into a Grade 6 classroom. So ultimately, the school now has no Grade 5 class, but would have a Grade 4-5 class with 45 students and a Grade 5-6 class with another 45 students.
And within those classes you will still have a lot of complexities, Cocking added, and even more complexities if educational assistants are also cut as part of the reductions.
“We are going to see the loss of teacher-student relationships. We will see the loss of special supports for the students that need them. The overall quality of education will go down.”
And at the high school level, students could see programs cut and academic core offerings reduced.
Werner Mailandt, principal at Centennial High School, says he will meet with staff over the next several days to make changes for the next semester.
“This will definitely have impacts, there will be disruptions,” he said, explaining that students may face new timetables in January where they won’t get all of their desired courses.
“And we already have large classes, definitely, with 30-35 students in a lot of our academic classes.
“But it’s also the complexity … If we had less complexity, we could be doing better with our students.”
On Tuesday, CBE chief financial officer Brad Grundy explained the CBE benefited last year from a $54-million class size initiative grant, a $13-million classroom improvement grant and an $18-million fee replacement grant.
But after the UCP budget was released Oct. 24, all of those grants disappeared, Grundy said, and replaced with one transitional grant of $24 million and an additional $29 million for growth.
So last year’s overall funding of $85 million has been cut to $53 million, resulting in a loss of $32 million.
But CBE officials worry that the $32 million could translate to nearly $50 million by the end of the year, if a certain number of teachers need to have contract terms paid out.
But Education Minister Adriana LaGrange is striking back at the CBE specifically, adamant that a board with a budget of $1.2 billion and 130,000 students needs to find further efficiencies by cutting administrative costs, dipping into reserves or hiking school fees.
In the legislature Wednesday, Sarah Hoffman, education critic for the NDP opposition, asked why LaGrange insists on singling out the CBE when several other local school boards are also reporting massive funding shortfalls and classroom grant reductions, including the Calgary Catholic School District, Rocky View Schools and the Foothills School Division in and around Calgary.
But LaGrange insisted again Wednesday, in spite of enrolment growth and funding frozen at $8.2 billion across the province, each student is being funded the same as last year through grants that have been “repurposed.”
“Every single student that crosses our doors will be funded.”
But as school boards and the province play the blame game, unions say it is students who are paying the price, facing increasingly complex and larger classrooms with fewer supports.
Lois Robb, spokeswoman for the CBE Staff Association of some 800 support workers, worries that educational assistants may also feel the burden of further cuts, even after close to 150 were already told their positions were gone at the end of June.
“We were already hit pretty hard in the spring and we could be impacted again.
“Students will be in more situations where they just don’t get the support they need for special needs.”
Robb described school situations where four to five high needs students will often work one-on-one with educational assistants throughout the day.
“So imagine what happens when that assistant loses their job, those kids go back into classrooms that are already overcrowded.”

        eferguson@postmedia.com
      
