
# We are there as a woman is induced to deliver her stillborn baby. The toll on doctors is heavy

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:27:04+00:00**

Author: **Marrwah Ahmadzai**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/04/we-are-there-as-a-woman-is-induced-to-deliver-her-stillborn-baby-the-toll-on-doctors-is-heavy)


        Looking after a woman during what is one of the most devastating events of her life is a huge responsibility. But we can reduce the number of stillbirths
      

        The operation saved a mother’s life. But she will soon wake up from her anaesthetic and learn the heartbreaking news that her baby was stillborn. As the assistant during this operation, I am devastated. It is the first stillbirth I have witnessed as a junior doctor working in obstetrics.
      

        In the sterile, empty corridor of the operating theatres afterwards, I crumble on to the shoulder of a senior clinician and tears punctuated with grief, shock and helplessness flow freely. But the moment is short-lived.
      

        It is late and there are other patients waiting.
      

        I peel off my blood-soaked scrubs in the change rooms and throw them into the linen basket before heading back to the birth suite. A metaphor for how, as a clinician, I file away my emotions before seeing the next patient.
      
The tragedy of stillbirth is often shrouded in silence. The silence of the clinician while they desperately search for a heartbeat, their own heart pounding louder with each passing moment as they dread the diagnosis they will soon have to give.
Silence in the delivery room that amplifies the sound of crying babies outside and the joy of their families. The silence of the baby that is born but never draws breath. The silence of friends and family who have no words in the face of insurmountable loss.
Silence at a societal level arising from stigma and taboo that delegitimises parents’ grief.
Yet stillbirth statistics speak loudly. Despite being one of the safest places in the world to give birth, six babies are stillborn in Australia every day. This is a rate which has remained relatively unchanged over the last 20 years.
To put these figures into a global context, Australia lags 28th out of 34 OECD countries when ranked according to stillbirth rates. Stillbirth is twice as common as deaths attributable to HIV/Aids and for every death due to Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (Sids), there will be 35 stillbirths.
The cost to families, the healthcare system and the economy are staggering.
Direct costs to families include those associated with funeral arrangements and stillbirth investigations such as autopsies, which are not yet Medicare-subsidised.
Indirect costs arise from enduring trauma which affects workplace productivity, family relationships and may lead to long-term mental health consequences including depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder and suicidality. Economic analysis estimates the summative costs of stillbirth to our nation over five years to be $680m.
However, stillbirth has long been ignored as a public health issue and considered a personal tragedy that sometimes happens and ought not to be discussed.
Those involved in maternity care are also deeply affected by stillbirth. Looking after a woman during what is one of the most devastating events of her life is a heavy responsibility.
We learn their stories in the delivery suite as they are induced to deliver their stillborn baby, in the clinic when they return for a postnatal check or in the assessment unit during their next pregnancy.
In a profession focused on facilitating the delivery of new life, each story fills us with sadness. Research suggests that as many as 8% of obstetricians will contemplate leaving obstetric practice due to the emotional toll of stillbirth care.
In 2018, the Senate stillbirth inquiry has brought stillbirth into the public health spotlight. The inquiry received hundreds of submissions from parents, clinicians and researchers.
Recommendations for stillbirth education and research were drafted to reduce the stillbirth rate by 20% over the next three years.
Last month on International Pregnancy and Infant Loss Awareness Day, the government launched the Safer Baby Bundle, an evidence-based education and awareness campaign designed for healthcare professionals involved in maternity care to help end preventable stillbirth and improve care for women that may be at risk.
This involves education in five key areas: supporting women to cease smoking, educating women regarding side sleeping, increased awareness regarding decreased foetal movements and optimum timing of delivery in women with risk factors.
This initiative draws on successful campaigns in Scotland which reduced stillbirth rates by 22% over five years and in the Netherlands where rates declined by 55% in 14 years.
As I progress in my training, I am sure to meet more families touched by the tragedy of stillbirth. I hope that the Safer Baby Bundle will herald a paradigm shift in our approach to stillbirth and lead to similar declines in rates here.
I encourage all my fellow colleagues in maternity healthcare to complete the online modules here. In the meantime, if you are an expectant mother, trust your instincts, learn your baby’s movement patterns and call your local antenatal care provider if you are concerned.
