
# Carly Simon: Trump ‘was all over me like ugly on an ape’ a

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jessica Chasmar**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/1/carly-simon-trump-was-all-over-me-like-ugly-on-an-/)

Singer Carly Simon in a new interview recalled being repulsed by President Trump’s behavior at a New York luncheon years before he became commander-in-chief.
In an interview with The Guardian, Thursday, Ms. Simon said she ran into Mr. Trump at a luncheon for Benazir Bhutto, the late prime minister of Pakistan, and that he didn’t give her the time of day until he realized she knew Bhutto personally.
“When I came into the room, there was Trump and a whole bunch of New York dignitaries. Trump wasn’t paying any attention to me at all. Why would he?” Ms. Simon recalled.
“Benazir Bhutto summoned me and asked me to go into the bedroom with her and so I went and we sat on the bed and she held my hands and said: ‘I just love your music.’ We talked about different songs that were her favorites and it maybe lasted three minutes,” she continued.
“When I went out of the bedroom, obviously I had all of a sudden become important through the eyes of Donald Trump,” she said. “So he was very anxious to meet me and invited me to Mar-a-Lago and was all over me like ugly on an ape.”
Ms. Simon said she turned down the offer, “because I thought he was kind of repulsive.”
“He is so vain, that’s for sure, and not in the best possible way,” the “You’re So Vain” singer said.
“He doesn’t bring humor to the word. In the song, hopefully, the person could wink at himself in the mirror because he got the joke,” she said. “I don’t think there’s much interest outside himself. What will happen with a narcissist is that they’re interested in themselves and anything that’s an extension of themselves, perhaps their children, but he’s not interested in the philosophy of great thinkers. I suspect.”

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
