
# Junk case — Albayalde

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:47:15+00:00**

Author: **Hector Lawas**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/junk-case-albayalde)

The other respondent-lawmen who filed their affidavits were Police Major Rodney Baloyo IV, Police Senior Inspector Joven Bognot Jr., Senior Police Officer I Jules Maniago, SPO1 Donald Roque, SPO1 Rommel Vital, SPO1 Alcindor Tinio, SPO1 Eligio Valeroso, Police Officer III (PO3) Dindo Dizon, PO3 Gilbert de Vera PO3 Encarnacion Guerrero Jr., PO2 Anthony Lacsamana, and PO3 Dante Dizon.
In his 35-page counter-affidavit, Albayalde sought the dismissal of the amended complaint filed against him for being insufficient in form and substance.
“On its (amended complaint) face, it does not sufficiently and adequately state the acts that I allegedly committed constituting the offenses charged, and as a consequence, merits outright dismissal,” Albayalde said.
In an amended complaint, the Philippine National Police charged Albayalde with graft, qualified bribery, falsification of public documents, dereliction of duty, and violation of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act.
Albayalde was impleaded in the complaint which was previously filed by the PNP against 13 police officers before the DOJ. He is now first on the list of respondents.
Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Q. Orsos, PNP/CIDG Legal Division chief previously said that probers used as basis testimonial evidence from witnesses, and the report of the Senate which extensively investigated the controversy, in filing the complaint against Albayalde.
“Mga lumang ebidensya at yung transcript sa Senate. Totality of the evidence shows that he is probably liable. Yung probability lang,” he said when asked about the police’s basis for filing the amended complaint against the former PNP chief.
It was learned that the PNP-CIDG presented new witnesses, including barangay officials from Mexico town in Pampanga.
During the Senate inquiry, Albayalde was also accused by then PNP-CIDG chief Benjamin Magalong that he sought to defer the dismissal order against his former subordinates.
The former PNP chief relinquished his post ahead of his retirement on November 8.
The DOJ will resume the preliminary investigation on November 11.
