
# Son Heung-min appears to apologise to Andre Gomes after scoring in Champions League clash

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:29:41+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/son-heung-min-appears-apologise-20828597)

Son Heung-min appeared to apologise to Andre Gomes after scoring for Tottenham in their Champions League clash at Red Star Belgrade on Wednesday night.
Son was devastated after his challenge left Everton midfielder Gomes needing surgery on a broken and dislocated ankle during Sunday's 1-1 draw at Goodison Park.
The South Korean was sent off, a decision which has since been overturned by the Football Association, and the club have been providing support for him.
Spurs manager Mauricio Pochettino opted to hand Son a starting spot in his squad on Wednesday and the forward delivered the goods by netting a brace in the encounter.
After scoring his first goal, which was a well-worked team effort, Son went towards camera and said sorry down the lens, presumably aimed at Gomes, and also appeared to pray for the injured Portuguese midfielder.
Son is yet to speak publicly about the incident, although Pochettino revealed on Tuesday that the player "was devastated after the action".
Just hours before Son's apology, Gomes thanked people who have sent him well wishes as he recovers at home following ankle surgery.
He had an operation on Monday, which was said to have gone "extremely well", and on Wednesday the Portugal international provided his first public comments since the incident.
In a video message on his Twitter account, he said: "Hi everyone. As you already know, everything went well.
"I'm already at home with my family and I would like to thank you all for the support, the messages and the positive energy. Thank you."
Gomes is expected to be sidelined for anywhere between six months and a year given the seriousness of the injury, which left players from both sides visibly upset on the pitch at Goodison Park.
Tottenham forward Son Heung-min, who has sent off for conceding the foul which led to Gomes' injury, had his suspension overturned by the Football Association on Tuesday.
