
# Naval officers to parade in Foxford during tall ship visit

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/01/4181780-naval-officers-to-parade-in-foxford-during-tall-ship-visit/)

THE Argentine Navy’s tall ship the Libertad (Freedom) will visit Ireland from November 2 to 5, with the captain, officers and crew visiting Foxford where Admiral William Brown – founder of the Argentine Navy – was born.
The vessel will be berthed at Sir John Rogerson’s Quay in Dublin, adjacent to the statue of Admiral Brown, who was born in Foxford in 1777.
The Admiral Brown Society, in association with Mayo County Council and the Foxford community, will welcome Her Excellency, Laura Bernal, Argentine Ambassador to Ireland, Captain Juan Carlos Romay, officers and crew of the Libertad to Foxford to pay homage to Admiral Brown on Sunday (November 3). The Irish Naval Services will be represented by members of the crew of L.E. Samuel Beckett and the Cadets of the Naval School.
Foxford will be decorated with the blue and white flags of the Argentine Republic, the Tricolour and the red and green of Mayo for the event.
The itinerary for the commemoration in Foxford is as follows.
Assembly is at 10.40 a.m. at the car park at the top of Main Street (former boxing club). At 10.45 a.m. the parade will proceed along Main Street led by the Foxford Brass and Reed Band and members of the ARA Libertad Band. The parade will continue along Lower Main Street, Providence Road, turning right at the junction of Providence Road and Chapel Road. At the bust of Admiral William Brown, a military salute will be performed en route to Saint Michael’s Church for the Admiral Brown memorial Mass, which commences at 11 a.m.
Following the conclusion of Mass, the parade group will assemble in the church car park at 12 noon. At 12.10 the parade will proceed along Chapel Road, turning right at the junction and continuing along Lower Main Street and Green Road to the Admiral William Brown Memorial Promenade.
There the ceremony will include the playing of the National Anthems and wreaths will be laid at the statue of Admiral Brown by Ambassador Laura Bernal, the cathaoirleach of Mayo County Council, Councillor Brendan Mulroy, a representative of the Irish Naval Service, and Captain Juan Carlos Ramoy, Argentine Navy.
On Monday, November 4, Captain Juan Carlos Romay, in association with H.E. Ambassador Laura Bernal, will host a reception for invited guests on board the vessel. The following day, Captain Romay will host the sixth class pupils of Foxford National School on board the Libertad.
The vessel will be open to the public on Saturday from 2 to 5 p.m. and also on Sunday from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.
