
# Toronto to kick off with Headingley ‘home game’ against Castleford

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:52:48+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Bower**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/04/toronto-wolfpack-headingley-home-game-castleford-super-league)


        • Super League’s new club also looking to play in York and London• Magic Weekend returns to Newcastle’s St James’ Park in 2020
      
Toronto Wolfpack’s first game as a Super League club will be part of a unique double-header at Headingley on the opening weekend of the 2020 season.
The Canadian club were promoted to Super League for the first time last month but are unable to play home games until winter ends in mid-April.
They will take several home games on the road in February and March, including their first match against Castleford that will be held at Headingley along with Leeds v Hull FC.
It will be the first time Super League has started a season with an event like this and it is a signal regarding the change Toronto have promised to bring to the sport since their formation in 2017.
Super League’s fixture list will be announced on Tuesday and the chief executive, Robert Elstone, is believed to be a supporter of creating as many special events throughout the season as possible.
Last season Wigan travelled to Barcelona to play Catalans Dragons at the Camp Nou, while the Magic Weekend, which will return to Newcastle in 2020, is another key event in the attempt to increase rugby league’s exposure.
Toronto’s arrival in Super League could be the biggest gamechanger yet. Backed by the Australian oil tycoon David Argyle the Wolfpack are also looking at hosting early-season fixtures in London and York and are in advanced talks with the All Blacks utility man Sonny Bill Williams. They are believed to have offered him equity in the club alongside a significant salary to bring him back to rugby league.
