
# 3 trends from Pakistani fashionistas for the wedding season

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:43:49+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Price**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2095343/4-3-trends-pakistani-fashionistas-wedding-season/)

KARACHI: Looking for some serious style inspiration for the upcoming wedding season? Rest easy, because we have you covered with the trends lighting up our Instagram feeds that we can’t get enough of.
As the summer heat draws to an end, it’s finally time to move away from all the season’s hype and look to cooler days. That’s not to say you can’t put your best foot forward during shaadi season with some lust-worthy yet elegant looks. Here are a few traditional trends that have left us in awe.

        Sari pants
      
They are back and here to stay for the season. We’ve been seeing them pop up on Instagram, especially for mehendis and we are not complaining. Look to Nausheen Shah for styling inspiration, such as long flowing pants with gold and yellow detailing.
For a more demure style, go for a mint green sari pant set that compliments a winter formal style. The smart yet elegant look is certainly a winner for a formal occasion.

        Red silk sari
      
Oh, hello! Red is such a powerful colour and what better way to incorporate it than into your next sari ensemble for a shaadi or reception. We absolutely adore Fahmeen Ansari’s recent Instagram post sporting a stunning outfit by Nida Azwer. Long, flowing side parted hair and statement jewellery without going overboard is a must-do for a glamourous and luxurious look.
Of course, we believe Mahira really set the level for the trend in the beginning of the year when she donned a beautiful, crimson sari by Azwer. Highlighted, dewy skin is all the rage for natural makeup looks (think Naimal Khawar’s famous do-it-yourself wedding look that shined brighter than the sun), so be ready to make your red sari stand out from the crowd.

        Floral tradition
      
Floral is so in right now with formal traditional looks and it’s definitely a trend to get on board with. Take inspiration from Mushk Kaleem’s ravishing creme floral lehenga by Shehla Chatoor for a recent wedding. Pair it with a metallic silver or gold blouse and sheer dupatta to amp the look.
Hina Altaf also looked elegant in a printed sari and traditional jhumkas for an understated yet pretty vibe that had us swooning. Pick a strong colour such as the royal blue shade to stand out from the crowd and pair with bold accessories.
