
# You just cannot miss Kriti Sanon's reaction to this Kartik Aryan's 'Chintu Tyagi' laughter post

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:35:11+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/you-just-cannot-miss-kriti-sanons-reaction-to-this-kartik-aryans-chintu-tyagi-laughter-post/articleshow/71935985.cms)

The much-awaited trailer of Mudassar Aziz's 'Pati Patni Aur Woh' featuring the talented trio Kartik Aaryan, Bhumi Pednekar, and Ananya Panday is out and how. Celebs and fans just could not hold themselves from praising the hilarious trailer which had also started a meme fest by default.
Today, Kartik took to his Instagram handle and shared a video from the trailer of his character Chintu Tyagi laughing a particular way which is unusual and funny. The actor along with the video posed a question to his fans and asked them to tag a friend who's laugh is funnier than the joke in the scene. This particular post attracted a hilarious comment from 'Housefull 4' actress Kriti Sanon who also happens to be Kartik's good friend. Kriti was quick enough to respond to the actor's post and wrote, "That's you in real life." with laughter emojis
Well, Kartik who knows you better than your own friends? Kartik's character Chintuji has been celebrated since the time of the film's announcement. His looks from the film were revealed long back when the cast was busy shooting in Lucknow. A few behind the scene pictures and videos from the film's Lucknow schedule were all over the internet.
Meanwhile, 'Pati Patni Aur Woh' is a remake of an old Bollywood classic with the same name. The original film starred Sanjeev Kumar, Vidya Sinha, and Ranjeeta. This Mudassar Aziz directorial is slated to release on December 6th this year. After the grand trailer launch, the star cast is busy promoting the film and shall appear on various platforms for promotional purposes.
