
# Sinas, Balba starting on wrong foot with media?

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:50:55+00:00**

Author: **Itchie G. Cabayan**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/editorial/opinion/sinas-balba-starting-wrong-foot-media)

In the case of Balba, it could not be ascertained if he actually had direct knowledge or involvement in the issue at hand and to him, I would like to give the so-called ‘benefit of the doubt.’
In a chat group, some reporters covering the MPD say —or allege—that the police tried to ‘hide’ the story about the riot that took place among members of rival fraternities in connection with the ongoing Bar operations at the start of the 2019 Bar Examinations last Sunday.
I would like to believe that if at all true, Balba did not know about it. In such case, he could maybe reprimand whoever was behind it and give orders to practice transparency since nothing escapes the watchful eye of the media.
In the case of Sinas, he clearly declared a war with the members of the NCRPO Press Club, headed by veteran reporter Lily Reyes.  According to an article written by a good friend, Dolly Cabreza, the press corps was unceremoniously booted out of the office which they have been occupying for years, way before Sinas came into the picture.
Based on Dolly’s story, Sinas told the media to look for another office somewhere else and remove their things since it will already be used as a satellite office.  Said office is located at the second floor of Quezon City Precinct 10 and I heard it was then NCRPO chief Gen. Joel Pagdilao who gave the said office to the media, since it was vacant anyway and was merely gathering dust.
As if these were not enough, Sinas, still according to Dolly’s story, also laid down the ‘dos and don’ts’ when it comes to interviews and press conferences, making clear that he is not amenable to ambush or phonepatch interviews as well as answering queries via text or calls. He also does not want to be disturbed during unholy hours and Sundays.
I hope that Sinas just woke up on the wrong side of the bed or was just not in a good mood that day.
As it is, he and Balba are faced with the difficulty of having such big shoes to fill.  In the case of Balba, there is no denying that his predecessor, Gen. Vicente Danao, Jr., has endeared himself to those covering the MPD beat by being readily accessible at all times and for giving them total access to all information that are newsworthy. Balba can still be that, since again, as I have said, there is no solid proof that he is at all behind any alleged attempt to bury a story.
Sinas however, is faced with a much bigger problem. With the likes of Chief Superintendent Guillermo Eleazar, Gen. Oscar Albayalde —although he is now embattled—and retired Gen. Leonardo Espina as among the most recent ones who have handled position of NCRPO chief, he cannot afford to be unfriendly to the media covering him.
There is a good, logical reason as to why NCRPO chiefs from Pagdilao onward continued allowing the NCRPO Press Club to use the office in question.
They were smart enough to know that the media, being the Fourth Estate, is there as partners of good governance and not as enemies. I don’t see anything good out of antagonizing the media members.
There is one thing that government officials should bear in mind. They have no ‘torrens title’ to whatever post they hold. Officials come and go but the media covering the beat will be there way, way, way  past their tenure of office.
If I were a government official, I think I would prefer to see the media, who have been with me during my stint, sad as I leave either due to retirement or transfer, instead of seeing them clapping with both hands and feet because I will finally be out of their sight. But that’s me.
***
Direct Hit entertains comments, suggestions or complaints. Please have them emailed to itchiecabayan@yahoo.com or text 0927-7169778.
