
# To-do lists are a curse of your own making

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:00:21+00:00**

Author: **Coco Khan**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2019/nov/01/to-do-lists-are-a-curse-of-your-own-making)


        No one asks me to do half the things on my list. So why do we do it?
      
Recently I found myself idly complaining to my local beautician about my stresses: workload, flat-hunting and my car needing repairs. “Seems like the evil eye is looking at you, hun,” she said, cheerily ripping the hair from my shin.
It’s been years since I’ve heard someone mention the evil eye. I grew up with the folklore but have always rejected superstition.
“Bit much, no?” I mentioned to Mum, later. “Me, describing a bad yet ordinary week, and her saying, ‘Oh you must be cursed, love.’”
“I wouldn’t worry,” Mum replied. “It’s a compliment.”
That’s because the evil eye is a malevolent glare cast at those with something beautiful, hard-won and excellent; their longing manifesting as a destructive curse. (As superstitions go, this must rank as one of the nicest. “Hey, has something gone wrong? That’s because you’re great.”)
After the salon came more bad news, more curveballs, and an accelerating to-do list. I was failing in my numerous roles – as love project manager, friend cheerleader, health aficionado. So when I found myself in A&E with a torn shoulder tendon and a doctor’s note telling me to stop everything at once, I felt relief. I had an excuse to step back.
No one asks me to do half the things on my list. My boyfriend does not ask me to plan every dinner. No one tells me to exercise. Mum couldn’t have asked me to set up a smart heating system for her, when she doesn’t know what it is. So why do we do it?
Perhaps we – women, especially – think we should. Or maybe the curse is a manifestation of fear, of knowing what is beautiful, hard-won and excellent in our lives, and that it can be easily lost. Perhaps my beautician was right. An evil eye did look at me, but it was my own eye all along.
