
# Nicki Minaj calls TV host Wendy Williams 'evil' for bringing up husband's sex offences

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:58:40+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/nicki-minaj-calls-tv-host-20800561)

Furious Nicki Minaj has gone in on Wendy Williams for dragging up husband Kenneth Petty's criminal past.
The singer called her 'vicious' and 'evil' for mentioning that he is a registered sex offender and served time in prison for manslaughter in 2002.
Wendy didn't hold back on her chat show - and that got under Nicki's skin.
"Every time you mention him you feel the need to bring these things up," she responded.  "I didn't know that in our society, you have to be plagued by your past.
"I didn't know that people can't turn over a new leaf.
 
"I didn't know that your viciousness and evilness was this deep-rooted, this deep-seeded."
Wendy spoke about his previous problems on her show.
"He served seven years in prison and he's also a sex offender," she added. "OK, so he's a killer and a sex offender. Well Nicki, congratulations."
 
Then Nicki bought up Wendy's own difficult past on her Queen Radio show.
"When a woman isn't really being loved at home, the viciousness is a different type," Nicki said.
"So I really wanted to pray for you today, because look at where you are now in your life. Look at what age you are.
"You paid for that man's mistress for all these years. You paid for her shopping sprees, you paid for her hotels, you paid to have that baby delivered.
"I was one of those black women supporting you when that came out."
