
# Zac Posen Closes His Eponymous Label

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:58:00+00:00**

Author: **Nerisha Penrose**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/fashion/a29670671/zac-posen-closing/?utm_source=twitter&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_medium=social-media)

Zac Posen is shutting down business.
On Friday, November 1, to the surprise of literally everyone, WWD reported that Zac Posen, the designer who founded his namesake label in 2001, is officially shutting down his business. According to WWD, Posen explained that "we were in a sale process and we ran out of time" and his decision to shut down his label was "surprising and immediate." Posen said his biggest struggle was trying to "find the right strategic partners at this tough time in retail and in the industry."
The immediate closure means that all production and operations will cease immediately, including the designer's official website which has already been shut down and directs customers to a domain page. Posen's latest collection, which debuted in a September campaign starring model Winnie Harlow, will no longer be shipped.
Following the news, Posen took to the brand's Instagram to say his final goodbyes.
"I want to express my appreciation to our extraordinary team and for all those who have stood by me and the brand," Posen captioned a group photo of his Zac Posen staff.
"I owe a great deal of gratitude for their unwavering support for and dedication to the Company," he continued. "I am grateful to the team who lent their incomparable talent and commitment along the way. I remain incredibly proud of what we created and hopeful for the future. Love ZP."
