
# Calls To Respect ‘Quality’ Pirates

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/orlando-pirates-need-to-be-respected-but-not-feared/666744)

Orlando Pirates have hit a tough spell of late, but one of Rulani Mokwena’s counterparts has insisted that the Buccaneers need to be respected…

        Read: Chiefs To Assess Billiat Situation?
      
Eric Tinkler, who oversaw a march to the 2015 CAF Confederation Cup final during his time with Pirates a few years ago, knows about the pressure that Mokwena must be under at present, but is more focused on his own ranks after they put together their longest winning streak in a decade.
Maritzburg go into tonight’s encounter one point behind Bucs in the Absa Premiership table, but in far better form than their opponents, winning three league game on the bounce while Bucs have just one win in their last eight league matches.
Tinkler has seen a massive turnaround in the club’s fortunes since he arrived earlier in the year and saved them from relegation into the GladAfrica Championship, and believes that their togetherness in KwaZulu-Natal has shone through.
Speaking to the club’s official website before taking on Pirates tonight, the former Bafana Bafana international said, “The work ethic, the unity, even the guys on the bench. Nobody is pulling faces ‘why were they not playing, why were they not brought on’… Everybody is backing the guys who are starting, everybody is backing the guys who are coming in. That’s very important because it shows that we are a team, which is key.”
But with Pirates, things don’t get any easier for the Team of Choice, and speaking about tonight’s opponents, Tinkler added, “It’s Orlando Pirates, there’s a lot of quality at Pirates…We need to go there and perform. We need to go there and not play with fear.
“All the coaches will say, when you’re playing against the big three, you don’t need to motivate anyone. The players are motivated themselves. We’re going through a good moment of form. In the league our position has improved, so we can go there with a lot more confidence, I think that makes us more dangerous.

        Read: Benni Looking For Next Step Overseas?
      
“But at the same time, you need to respect a club like Orlando Pirates and the quality that they have. Irrespective of whether they’re having a good or a bad season – they can quickly change that because of the quality they have. “
The game will get underway at 19h30 at Orlando Stadium in Johannesburg.
