
# Stopping Lionel Messi is impossible, admits Paco Lopez

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:27:24+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/02/stopping-lionel-messi-messi-is-impossible-admits-paco-lopez?utm_medium=rss)


        Levante manager Paco Lopez has admitted that it is next to impossible to devise a plan to stop Lionel Messi from creating magic on the football field. Lopez went on to admit that Levante haven’t made a concrete plan to stop the Argentine when Barcelona play Levante on Saturday at Ciudad de Valencia.
      
La Liga leaders Barcelona travel to face 11th placed Levante on Saturday and during the pre-match build-up Levante coach Paco Lopez talked about how it’s impossible to stop Barca captain Lionel Messi. The 52 year old manager talked about the colossal impact Messi has on the team and making a plan to stop Messi is unimaginable. 
Levante are in good spirits after their 2-1 win over Real Sociedad in midweek and will try to be brave against the Catalans. Levante beat Barcelona in 2017/18 season on the penultimate matchday and crushed Barcelona’s dream of going unbeaten in the entire league season. The former Levante B manager told the players to draw inspiration from that match and play fearlessly against Ernesto Valverde’s side.
“Throughout a season there are very few sides who can beat Barcelona. That year, on the penultimate weekend of the season, no one had been able to beat them and we did it. Things have to go perfectly [to win] with the support and help of the 22,000," Lopez said as reported by Marca. 
Messi has been in magnificent form since returning from injury, scoring 4 goals and providing 4 assists in 5 La Liga games. The 32 year old put up a breathtaking performance against Real Valladolid on Tuesday and Lopez is aware about how Messi can bend the game his way but admitted that there are no tactics to stop the legend.
“That is impossible. I have not seen any team who has found that magic potion. There are no longer remedies for what he does. We have to put in a good collective shift. To stop Barcelona and Messi, you have to be perfect,” concluded the Spaniard.
