
# All I want to see is more bad art by women. Give someone else a chance to fail

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Jane Howard**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/2019/nov/01/all-i-want-to-see-is-more-bad-art-by-women-give-someone-else-a-chance-to-fail)


        Gender parity in the art world isn’t going to fill galleries with more mediocre art. But would it be such a crime if it did?
      
I’ve seen a lot of art. Two things are inherent in this statement: I’ve seen a lot of bad art, and a lot of art by men. Ergo: I have seen a lot of bad art by men.
I think it’s time some women got a chance.
This week, the latest Countess Report was released, looking at gender representation in Australian visual arts. While 72% of art school graduates are women, women are just 25% of artists exhibited at the National Gallery of Australia, and 13% of the directors of state galleries.
The NGA has announced they have a new aim of achieving gender balance from 2020. In response, Sydney Morning Herald art critic John McDonald said, “A 50/50 demand is an ideological imperative that doesn’t deal with the fundamental issue of quality … It’s the role of the institution to make informed choices, not to tot up two columns.”
“Women make good and bad art, just like men,” he said.
Well. Yes, John. Men and women have both made a lot of bad art. But women haven’t been able to make bad art in the same proportions or at the same scale as men. I don’t inherently think more female artists would miraculously lift the quality of art. I just think it would be nice. And at the very least, I think it would be interesting.
We deserve bad art by women, too.
In 1985, The Guerrilla Girls asked: “Do Women Have To Be Naked To Get Into the Met. Museum?” They’re still asking.
In 2012, less than 4% of artists in the Met’s modern art galleries were women; but 76% of the nudes were women. This is an increase in male nudes – but also an increase in male artists.
This isn’t an issue unique to the visual arts.
This week, in a tribute to honorary Oscar winner Lina Wertmüller (the first woman nominated for best director, in 1977), Jane Campion (the second woman nominated, in 1994) noted five women have been nominated for best director at the Oscars. But she also made explicit the corollary to this: 350 best director nominations have gone to men.
Even if we were to assume there were objective criteria for what makes “good art”, do we really think women have made only one good film for every 70 by men?
Of course, women make fewer films than men, and if they do make one feature, they are less likely to make another. Men are offered bigger budgets – even when films by women make higher returns.
When researching a piece on the growth of gender equality in Australian theatre, I was shocked to learn the Sydney Theatre Company went from 2005 to 2018 without a female director debuting a work on their biggest stage. Do we think there wasn’t a single dud in those 13 years?
Research has shown us quotas don’t let in mediocre women – they keep out mediocre men. And artists aren’t judged purely on “merit”: men decidedly support men at the exclusion of women.
Men can take risks. They can make mistakes. They can make bad art. Women aren’t afforded the opportunity in the first place.
These issues don’t only affect women: they affect people of colour, First Nations artists, artists with a disability, non-binary people. They affect anyone who isn’t the typical mould of the wunderkind: the white, young male auteur.
But, here’s the thing I just really want you to understand: wunderkinds have made some truly terrible art. Isn’t it time someone else had a go? If we gave more opportunities to women, there would still be bad art, but at least it might be bad in a way we haven’t seen before. It’s much less likely, say, to be bad because of rape jokes – it might even be great because of rape jokes.
For me, so much of the beauty in art lies, counterintuitively, in the bad art. A festival where everything is good is a bad festival; a gallery where everything is good is a bad gallery. Art’s power lies in its ability to evoke strong emotions. Art will never be read the same by every person – and we shouldn’t want it to. As much as we critics like to pretend we can irrefutably arbitrate the quality of art, we will always be analysing through our personal limited perspectives.
What is “bad” to me may be “good” to you. And when we see this work and disagree about it, we can fight and wrestle. With each other, but also with ourselves. I would much rather see bad art that makes me rage and think and talk, than see fine art which leaves me with nothing to think about at all.
All I want is to see more bad art by women. Give someone else a chance to fail. At the very least, don’t you think that would be fun?

        • Jane Howard is a Walkley award-winning arts journalist
      
