
# Bonfire Night 2019: Firework displays in West Dunbartonshire and Helensburgh

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:08:33+00:00**

Author: **Jenny Foulds, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jenny-foulds/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/bonfire-night-2019-firework-displays-20790383)

Fireworks Night is set to go off with a bang this year with a number of organised displays set to take place across the area.
Thousands of visitors are expected at West Dunbartonshire Council’s free display at Levengrove Park on Monday, November 4, with another held in Dalmuir the following night.
The 20-minute shows will feature a range of fireworks, including comets, mines, spinners, hummers, whistles, strobes and dragon’s eggs, and will light up the sky in an array of colours.
Both events begin at 7pm and finish at 9pm.
Along with the main event, there will be family activities and stalls selling hot food.
Visitors are advised to arrive in plenty of time and, if possible, walk to the event or use public transport as many of the streets around the parks will have parking restrictions in place.
 
People are being urged not to bring their own fireworks or sparklers as these can present a safety issue within large crowds, and are also advised to leave pets at home.
Around 5,000 spectators are ecpected to attendf each event.
The council posted on Facebook:
“It’s Fireworks Night! Watch the skies fill with dazzling fireworks and enjoy funfairs and family activies.
“Join thousands of spectators as Levengrove Park is illuminated with dazzling fireworks.
“Tuck into food from various stalls or enjoy family activities throughout the park.”
Visitors are asked to arrive at the events in plenty of time to avoid disappointment, adhere to parking restrictions in and around the venues and follow advice from the stewards at all times.
Helensburgh and District Round Table will also hold their annual bonfire and fireworks display on Saturday, November 2.
