
# Horrified Labour councillor comes home to find swastika painted on her property

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:15:26+00:00**

Author: **Kara O&#39;Neill**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/horrified-labour-councillor-comes-home-20794169)

A horrified Labour councillor came home last night to find a swastika painted on her private property.
Councillor Cassi Perry, who represents Banbury Cross and Neithrop, tweeted an image which showed the Nazi symbol scrawled in paint on the side of a boat she keeps at her home in Cherwell, Oxfordshire.
After reporting the incident to the police, Ms Perry then shared the shocking picture on social media.
On Twitter , Ms Perry wrote: "Came home to this sprayed on the side of my boat. Can I just say modern politics sucks. What the f*** is wrong with people?"
She later added: "Police have taken statements and photos.
"They are concerned it might be linked to some online stalking I've experienced this year.
"I'm hopeful it's just some kids being a***s.
"Self medicating with wine, chocolate and a movie."
Mirror Online contacted Councillor Cassi Perry for comment.
The tweet comes as two-thirds of women MPs admitted progress on tackling violence against female politicians affects whether they will stand for re-election.
At the end of October, Culture Secretary Nicky Morgan announced she was standing down as an MP because of the "clear impact" on her family and the abuse she has received.
The Culture Secretary joined a raft of women leaving parliament citing abuse and the pressures of the job on their mental health or family.
The Loughborough MP is the first member of Boris Johnson's Cabinet to say they will not stand again.
 
She has represented Loughborough for the Conservatives since 2010 and was previously education secretary.
It laid bare the divisions inside the Conservative Party despite the party insisting they were united ahead of the  general election .  
Cabinet minister Amber Rudd also announced she will not stand at the election.
And Lib Dem and former Conservative MP Heidi Allen cited “the nastiness and intimidation that has become commonplace” as why she would not seek re-election.
Sixty-five per cent of women MPs quizzed for the poll said progress on tackling violence against women in politics, including online, has an impact on their willingness to stand for re-election, compared with just 24% of men MPs.
The ComRes study of 147 MPs for the Commons Women and Equalities Committee found 43% believe the Speaker should be the single most responsible person for ensuring an inclusive culture in Parliament.
Committee chairwoman Maria Miller said: “A panel of MPs, peers and officials called for a more gender sensitive Parliament in their report to the Speaker in 2018.
“The Women and Equalities Committee’s inquiry has been considering what progress has been made by the House of Commons since then, but we can see from this research that MPs are unclear about who currently is responsible for driving the change that is wanted.
“However, what almost half of them are clear about is that most responsibility for fulfilling this role should lie with the Speaker.
“As part of our inquiry the committee has asked those standing for election to the position of Speaker to outline what they might do to address the issues raised.”
