
# Nate Diaz's net worth after clash with Jorge Masvidal at UFC 244

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/nate-diazs-net-worth-after-20795218)

Nate Diaz has seen his career earnings increase gradually since he made his UFC debut in 2007.
The Stockton native takes on Jorge Masvidal in the main event of UFC 244 tonight and is expected to earn around $500,000.
That is a far cry from the $1,000 he was awarded as a bonus for winning his best-of-three series on The Ultimate Fighter 5.
Diaz went on to win the competition by beating Manvel Gamburyan in the finale, winning $16,000.
He then saw his purse almost double to $30,000 for his next four fights but it wasn't until he fought Rory McDonald in 2011 that he saw his earnings from a single fight hit six figures.
 
Diaz hit the big time in 2016 when he earned a minimum of $500,000 from his win over Conor McGregor and saw that quadruple for the rivals' rematch six months later which the Irishman won.
Diaz then took three years out before returning with a points win over Anthony Pettis for which he was paid $250,000.
But the American will have earned far more from his fights with McGregor after his share of the pay-per-view revenue is taken into account.
And Diaz also has his burgeoning CBD business which will contribute to his net worth which is estimated to be in the region of $8million.
 
And Diaz is clearly living comfortably given he has hinted he could quit at any time.
“I’ll never have to fight again," he said. "I didn't have to fight a long time ago. But what am I going to do? I've got all kinds of other stuff going on, but I don’t like not fighting.
“I’ll take forever off, or I’ll get back to it if anybody comes correct. The only reason we’ve had problems in the past is because you better treat me like it’s supposed to be.
"I've been in this game forever doing my thing regardless of outcome. I’m coming back my next fight stronger, better anyways."
