
# Convicted killer sentenced after man confined, assaulted

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:00:59+00:00**

Author: **Heather Polischuk**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/crime/convicted-killer-sentenced-after-man-confined-assaulted)

At 32, Ronald Devin Zerr has racked up a 30-conviction-deep record with six for violence — one of which was a manslaughter. Despite that, he’s never served a penitentiary sentence.
On Wednesday, the Crown asked a Regina Provincial Court judge to change that.
Crown prosecutor Randene Zielke argued for a sentence in the range of four years in a case in which a man originally from the Philippines was left so terrified, he moved out of the province to avoid the possibility of encountering Zerr again.
But Regina Provincial Court Judge James Rybchuk determined despite the psychological impact on the victim, the details of the incident put it nearer the lower end of the range. Rybchuk decided on a 30-month sentence less remand credit, giving Zerr approximately one year, 11 months to serve — one month shy of a federal term.
Back in 2012, Zerr avoided additional jail time thanks to double remand credit that covered the entire nine-year manslaughter sentence he was handed for his role in the February 2008 stabbing death of Albert Conrad Lowenberger.
Rybchuk noted Zerr — the product, as an Indigenous man, of intergenerational trauma — took significant positive steps in the years that followed the manslaughter conviction, including training in carpentry and construction. He managed to get custody of his young son in 2017 but, in 2018, developed an addiction to meth — which Zerr blamed for his latest offences: unlawful confinement, assault and theft.
“If it wasn’t for (drugs), I don’t think I’d be here today,” Zerr told Rybchuk.
Court heard the complainant was working two jobs to support himself and his family back in the Philippines when he got to know Zerr through a friend. The two were at a party together on Nov. 10, 2018 and, along with others, used meth and alcohol. They left in Zerr’s car and, while the complainant got in willingly, that eventually changed.
The group drove around for a while and then stopped at a pizza restaurant to pick up a man who was, and remains, unknown to the complainant. Court heard the man had a pizza with him and that comments were made to the complainant about it being his “last meal.”
Shortly after, with the complainant growing increasingly anxious, Zerr drove out of town, punching the man in the face several times en route. Zielke said the complainant begged to be let out but Zerr refused. During the October trial, Zerr claimed, unsuccessfully, that it was cold and he didn’t want to leave the man on the side of the road.
Zielke argued the complainant believed he was to be seriously hurt or even killed once Zerr stopped at a dark field near an abandoned building. There, Zerr kicked the man a number of times before the group got back in the car and returned to the city. The complainant managed to get away when Zerr stopped for gas. Rybchuk found the confinement lasted about an hour.
While the complainant didn’t provide a victim impact statement, Zielke said he was so frightened, he left Regina and the brother who sponsored his move to Canada.
Zerr’s jail sentence is to be followed by 18 months probations. Among terms are that he not contact the complainant.
Defence lawyer Lindsay Hjorth had requested an 18-month jail term.

        hpolischuk@postmedia.com
      

        twitter.com/LPHeatherP
      
