
# Patriots fall to Ravens 37-20, New England will not go undefeated

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:14:12+00:00**

Author: **Associated Press**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/sports/patriots-fall-to-ravens-37-20)

BALTIMORE -- The New England Patriots' unbeaten season crashed to an end under the weight of their own mistakes and inability to contain Baltimore Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson, who ripped apart the NFL's stingiest defense with his arm and legs in a 37-20 victory Sunday night.
Baltimore (6-2) zipped to an early 17-0 lead and let the Patriots (8-1) creep within striking distance before quelling the comeback with a 70-yard fumble return by Marlon Humphrey and a 5-yard touchdown pass from Jackson to Nick Boyle early in the fourth quarter.
That made it 30-20, and not even six-time Super Bowl winner Tom Brady could bring New England out of the hole. Brady, who went 30 for 46 for 285 yards, threw an interception with 12:47 left.
Jackson then led a methodical 9 1/2-minute drive that ended with his thrust into the end zone from the 1.

        
          BALTIMORE RAVENS' LAMAR JACKSON REACHES OUT TO PHOTOGRAPHERS HE RAN OVER DURING GAME
        
      
Jackson, the slick second-year quarterback, ran for 61 yards and two touchdowns and went 17 for 23 for 163 yards and a score. Mark Ingram ran for 115 yards, and the NFL's leading rushing attack amassed 210 yards on the ground.
The Patriots came in with a defense that had allowed only 7.6 points per game and forced 25 turnovers for a plus-17 differential. The defending Super Bowl champions picked up two fumbles, but they had two turnovers themselves and committed a costly penalty that contributed to Baltimore's first touchdown.
New England was penalized seven times for 48 yards.
Baltimore's defense played a role, too. Patrick Onwuasor stripped the ball from Julian Edelman in the third quarter and Humphrey took it the other way for a score. Although Brady answered with a touchdown of this own to make it 24-20, the Patriots would not get closer.
And so ended New England's 12-game winning streak, dating to last season and including the playoffs.
The Ravens opened with a crisp 75-yard drive in which Jackson went 4 for 4 for 41 yards and New England extended the march with an uncharacteristic mistake. As Baltimore lined up for a field goal try, Shilique Calhoun jumped into the neutral zone to give the Ravens a first down.

        
          NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS' TOM BRADY ADDRESSES FREE AGENT RUMORS, VOWS TO PLAY UNTIL 45: 'NOTHING HAS CHANGED'
        
      
On the next play, Jackson skirted around left end for an easy 3-yard score.
After Brady went three-and-out on his first series, Baltimore rattled off another 11-play drive and added a field goal.
The third time the Ravens got the ball, a 53-yard run by Ingram set up a 12-yard touchdown burst by Gus Edwards to make the score a stunning 17-0.

        
          CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
        
      
New England punted again, and what followed for Baltimore was a deflating miscue let the Patriots back into it. Cyrus Jones muffed the kick, former Raven Justin Bethel recovered at the Baltimore 20 and Brady tossed a 4-yard touchdown pass to Mohamed Sanu.
New England added two field goals in the final 4 minutes of the half, the first of them after Ingram lost a fumble at the Baltimore 19.
