
# Messi & Co. Frustrated As Minnows Hold Barca

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:04:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/uefa-champions-league/uefa-champions-league-report-barcelona-v-slavia-praha-05-november-2019/666827)


        UEFA Champions League
      
Result: FC Barcelona 0-0 Slavia Praha
Date: 05 November 2019
Venue: Camp Nou
FC Barcelona were met with jeers at the full-time whistle following a goalless draw with Slavia Praha in the UEFA Champions League on Tuesday evening.
Luis Suarez missed out and had his spot taken by Ousmane Dembele, who partnered Lionel Messi as well as Antoine Griezmann up front with the Catalans seeking qualification to the last 16.
Petr Sevcik’s low shot from the byline nearly trickled Slavia into a fifth-minute lead after deflecting off Gerard Pique but Marc Andre Ter Stegen reacted sharply.
The Spanish giants put on the accelerator five minutes later after Pique played a low ball to Nelson Semedo on the right, but Ondrej Kolar parried the strike with his legs.
After a quiet opening, Messi took the bull by the horns 34 minutes in when he hit underside of the crossbar after cutting in from the left side of the area.
The Argentine was in again two minutes to halftime after a low pass from Arturo Vidal, but Kolar palmed for a corner as frustration began to grow for the hosts. From the corner, Kolar’s reflexes continued as he steered Pique’s header around the left hand post with the defence at sea.
Barca continued battling after the break despite the arrival of Sergi Roberto, who replaced Jordi Alba as the marauding full-back.
Roberto received an excellent chance to hit the opener six minutes from entering when he connected with Dembele’s clipped ball, but Kolar once again smothered the strike.
With 14 minutes to play, A superb ball from the byline from Anssu Fati found Messi, who looked to finish from close range but Kolar was on hand to make the save.
The LaLiga champions' evening ended with qualification to the knockout stages in the balance, as the Czech side picked up their second point in the group of death.
