
# Kentucky Governors' Race Tests #RedforEd Against Trump

Published at: **2019-11-05T02:48:25+00:00**

Author: **Michael Patrick Leahy**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/04/close-governor-race-in-kentucky-will-test-political-power-of-redfored-teachers-against-the-trump-agenda/)

The outcome will be a test of the political power of the #RedforEd teachers movement, which has aggressively pursued a political agenda in Kentucky over the past year, against the popularity of President Trump and the depth of the impeachment inquiry backlash among his supporters.
President Trump held a rally in Lexington with Bevin on Monday to help get out the vote and help the incumbent governor secure another four year term in a race that the most recent polls say is too close to call.
The rally was attended by well over 10,000 Kentuckians, many wearing t-shirts that said “Read the Transcript,” all of whom showed their boisterous support for both the president and Gov. Bevin.
But pushing against that momentum in support of the Trump agenda is another kind of momentum generated by the #RedforEd teachers in the state.
As Breitbart News reported earlier this year:
In February, “the local #RedforEd affiliate in the state, Kentucky 120 United, launched a protest of legislation under consideration at the state legislature that shut down public schools in several counties,” Breitbart News reported.
These wildcat strikes resulted in the shutdown of a significant number of public schools around the state, and subsequent action by the State Department of Labor, as Breitbart News reported in August:
Bitterness against Bevin on the part of the state’s teachers could play a big role in the outcome, one local professor says.
“Who is going to win depends heavily on, heavily on how angry the teachers remain,” Dr. Tom Matijasic, Professor of History at Big Sandy Community and Technical College told WHCS TV in Prestonburg, Kentucky:
Whatever the outcome of Tuesday’s gubernatorial election in Kentucky, both sides are likely to look at it as a model of political combat for 2020.
