
# Rampant Leipzig Put Eight Past Mainz

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:03:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/bundesliga-news/bundesliga-evening-wrap-02-november-2019/666594)


        RB Leipzig 8-0 Mainz
      
RB Leipzig were the big winners on Saturday after putting eight goals past Mainz at the Red Bull Arena.
Timo Werner contributed with a hat-trick, while Marcel Sabitzer, Christopher Nkunku, Yussuf Poulsen, Marcel Halstenberg and Nordi Mulere also got their names on the score-sheet.
The victory moves Leipzig up to third in standings, while Mainz find themselves in 13th spot.

        Bayer Leverkusen 1-2 Borussia Monchengladbach
      
Borussia Monchengladbach moved to the top of the Bundesliga with a 2-1 victory over Bayer Leverkusen.
Ozcar Wendt got the home side up and running with the opening goal after 18 minutes, but they were pegged back by Kevin Volland's equaliser seven minutes later.
Gladbach did manage to secure the winning shortly before the halftime break through Marcus Thuram's fifth goal of the season.

        Werder Bremen 2-2 Freiburg
      
Freiburg moved up to fifth after securing a point at Werder Bremen on Saturday evening.
Milot Rashica and Theodor Gebre Selassie got the goals for the hosts, while Nils Petersen bagged a brace for Freiburg who also had Janink Haberer sent off in the second half.

        Union Berlin 1-0 Hertha Berlin
      
Union Berlin registered a second win in three league games after defeating Hertha Berlin 1-0 on Saturday night.
Sebastian Polter secured the game's only goal that sends Union up to 13th spot, one point behind 11th-place Hertha.
