
# Shah Rukh Khan to be first Bollywood actor to have his name displayed on Burj Khalifa

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:30:01+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/shah-rukh-khan-to-be-first-bollywood-actor-to-have-his-image-displayed-on-burj-khalifa/articleshow/71869623.cms)

When it comes to celebrating Shah Rukh Khan’s rest assured, it will always be King sized!
As if thousands assembling outside Mannat just to get a glimpse of the star didn’t go to prove how big a star he is, well this latest update is sure to make your jaw drop. According to the latest buzz online, an message for Shah Rukh Khan will be displayed on the tallest building in the world- Burj Khalifa.
In just moments from now, fans of the star residing in Dubai, will be in for a treat as he will be the first Bollywood star to have his name displayed on the iconic structure. Not only will this be a sight to behold, but it will also be the first for any actor in the world.
This takes birthday celebrations to a whole new level.
Meanwhile, back on home soil, Shah Rukh has started off his day by meeting and greeting the many gathered outside his home late last night. Fans were in for a double treat when he made his second appearance later this evening with son, AbRam Khan in tow.
Shah Rukh also attended a special event with an auditorium full of fans, where he cut his birthday cake, danced, spoke about his next film venture and even delivered some of his popular dialogues.
Looks like 54 is already off to a good start and we can't wait to see what else the year ahead has to offer.
