
# (Update: Not for long) The Nokia 7.2 is HMD's first phone with an unlockable bootloader

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:05:19+00:00**

Author: **Ryan Whitwam**

Original: [Android Police](https://www.androidpolice.com/2019/11/04/the-nokia-7-2-is-hmds-first-phone-with-an-unlockable-bootloader/)


        Update 1: 2019/11/04 7:08am PSTAccording to the folks at Nokiamob, HMD states that this was an "inadvertent miss" (which we take to mean "accident") and a future update will remove the option to
      
For most people, a locked bootloader is no big deal. However, some Android users demand an unlockable bootloader so they can tinker with the software on their phones. Many devices are completely locked down, but HMD might be easing up a bit. The recently launched Nokia 7.2 is apparently the company's first phone with an unlockable bootloader.
Unlocking the bootloader on a phone allows you to flash whatever software you want to the internal partitions. For example, you can replace the recovery with TWRP or flash a custom Android ROM downloaded from XDA Forums. Unlocking the bootloader opens the door to all that customization, but it comes with security risks. Thus, many devices require workarounds or hacks to unlock, but the Nokia 7.2 is very much like a Pixel. You just need a few minutes and a computer with Fastboot.

          Update 1: 2019/11/04 7:08am PST by Ryne Hager
        
According to the folks at Nokiamob, HMD states that this was an "inadvertent miss" (which we take to mean "accident") and a future update will remove the option to unlock the bootloader.
The full statement provided by an HMD Global spokesperson is just below:
Folks interested in flashing custom ROMs to their Nokia 7.2 should take advantage of the opportunity while they can, or at least unlock the bootloader now if they plan to in the future. Keep in mind, though, the process will void your warranty.
End of Update

          Source: 
          XDA
        

          Via: 
          Techmesto
        
