
# Keanu Reeves and Alexandra Grant Reportedly Have Been Secretly Dating for Months

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:02:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29702636/keanu-reeves-alexandra-grant-dating/?utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_source=twitter)

Keanu Reeves and Alexandra Grant really are dating, People confirmed, hours after photos of them holding hands at the LACMA Art + Film Gala this weekend went viral. A source told the outlet that the two have been involved for months but wanted to keep it private at first.
But things have changed now. “Keanu wants to openly share his life with her,” a source told the outlet. “He is extremely happy and grateful to have Alex in his life.”
Grant and Reeves "started dating earlier this year, but have wanted to keep it quiet,” the source added.
Grant, a 46-year-old artist, has been friends with Reeves for years. The two collaborated in 2011 on his book Ode to Happiness. She illustrated it and his 2016 book Shadows. The couple also founded a publishing company together, X Artists' Books, in 2017.
According to the company's site, "XAB is a small publisher of thoughtful, high-quality, artist-centered books that fit within and between genres. Our books are works of art; portals to imagined worlds; treasured companions; the fabric of a community. We love the same things about our books as we do about our friends: generosity, open-heartedness, intelligence, mystery, style. They bring sustenance and shift realities. They may occasionally break your heart."
Grant and Reeves have gone to three red carpet events this year. They first showed PDA at Saint Laurent's show in June. They also attended the MOCA Benefit in May and posed on the red carpet alongside each other.
