
# Sakurai Discusses Young Generations Not ﻿Knowing SNK, Says The Character Being Fun Is More Important

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ryan Craddock**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/sakurai_discusses_young_generations_not_knowing_snk_says_the_character_being_fun_is_more_important)

As part of today's presentation on Super Smash Bros. Ultimate's newest fighter, Terry Bogard, series director Masahiro Sakurai spoke briefly about the younger generations' lack of knowledge surrounding the character, Fatal Fury, and developer SNK.
It's a topic that became prominent within the Nintendo community when Terry was first revealed for Smash, with plenty of younger people being left confused at the reveal, not knowing who Terry was supposed to be, and some - shall we say, more mature folk - being left equally shocked by the young 'uns lack of understanding.
In the presentation, Sakurai spoke about how his use of SNK terminology might confuse younger players throughout the presentation, and used the opportunity to also comment on Terry's inclusion in the game. He highlights that the fact that, in his eyes, how fun the character is to play should be more important than their age.
If you do happen to fall into the 'I have no idea who Terry really is' camp, you might want to check out our recent feature all about the character and his history. If you've got to read and learn about something, it may as well be video game-related, right?
If you missed the news, Terry will be available in Smash Ultimate today.
[via youtube.com]
