
# IND vs BAN | No change in batting, bowling line-up needs consideration, reveals Rohit Sharma

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:42:00+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/ind-vs-ban-no-change-in-batting-bowling-line-up-needs-consideration-reveals-rohit-sharma?utm_medium=rss)


        Acting India captain Rohit Sharma has revealed that while there will be no change in the batting line-up, there will be some consideration with regards to the bowling mix. After facing a seven-wicket defeat in the first T20I, India are looking to bounce back in the 2nd T20I to be played on Thursday.
      
Rohit, in a press conference on Wednesday, has hinted at shuffling the pace combination for the second T20 International against Bangladesh on Thursday, which will be held in Rajkot.
Mushfiqur Rahim starred in Bangladesh’s win over India as they successfully chased down a target of 149 with an excess of three deliveries. Rahim hit four boundaries in the 19th over that was being bowled by pacer Khaleel Ahmed and that turned the game completely into the visitors’ favour.
"Our batting looks good. So I don't think there's any change we need to make in our batting. But we'll analyze the pitch, and based on that we'll see what we can do as a team," Rohit said at the pre-match press conference, as quoted by the TOI.
"The (pace-bowling) combination that we played in the last game, it was based on the pitch that was on offer in Delhi. We will see the pitch again today and we will think what we need to do in our bowling line-up," the skipper revealed.
Rohit is expecting the Rajkot track to play better than the one at the Feroz Shah Kotla. "The pitch looks good. Rajkot has always been a good track to bat on and it does offer some assistance to the bowlers also. It will be a good pitch. I'm pretty sure it will be better than what you saw in Delhi," Rohit opined.
While the stand-in captain didn’t reveal the team strategy for the Rajkot T20I, he did express what all he expects from his teammates. "I cannot tell you strategy but what I can definitely tell you is that there will be changes in our approach. In the last match (in New Delhi), we played according to the pitch. We were playing as per the ways the pitch was reacting.
"But if the pitch here (at Rajkot) is good, our approach will be different as well in both bowling and batting (departments)."
Rohit is focussing on the point that India don’t repeat the same mistakes as they did in the series opener. "We were short in a lot of departments. It is important to focus on the mistakes we made and make sure those mistakes are not repeated again. That is the sign of a good team, when you don't repeat mistakes," he signed off.
