
# Betting patterns could be scrutinised in modified whip case

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:18:37+00:00**

Author: **Greg Wood**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/07/british-horseracing-authority-investigating-betting-patterns-modified-whip-gamble-case)


        • Horse backed from 100-1 to 10-1 won at Chelmsford • Jockey fined after elastic bands found attached to whip
      
The betting patterns surrounding a gamble in a controversial race at Chelmsford City in September, after which the jockey Danny Brock was banned for seven days for wealing a horse while using a modified whip, could be under examination as part of a British Horseracing Authority investigation into the race.
Resurrected, who is trained by Charlie McBride, was initially a 100-1 shot for the Moving Made Easy Classified Stakes on 19 September, before opening on course at 25-1 and being backed down to start at 10-1. She won by half a length but Brock was interviewed by the local stewards and issued with a £140 fine for using a modified whip with two elastic bands wound around the tip.
A veterinary inspection a couple of hours later revealed the whip had made a mark on Resurrected. Brock had left the course so this aspect of the case was considered by an independent British Horseracing Authority panel on 17 October. This replaced his original fine with a seven-day suspension.
Unusually for a hearing that took place three weeks ago, the panel’s written reasons for its finding have yet to be published on the BHA’s website. The BHA said on Thursday it “cannot comment on ongoing investigations or speculation surrounding possible investigations”.
Resurrected, a three-year-old filly, raced at Chelmsford in the colours of Miss Charlie McPhillips having been bought for £10,000 at the Tattersalls’ Breeze-Up sale in May 2018 when Brock was listed as the buyer. She lined up for the Grade Six event, her first start over six furlongs, as one of the country’s lowest-rated horses in training having shown no worthwhile form in three outings when she started at 150-1, 66-1 and 50-1 but had little trouble justifying strong support to beat a dozen opponents, eventually crossing the line half a length in front having led a furlong out.
Brock’s seven-day suspension for wealing a horse – an offence that occurs, on average, about once a year from around 90,000 starts – has been a cause of much social media discussion in recent weeks, led by Ross Clarke, the racing editor of Catena Media.
The BHA said on Thursday that it may consider whether the current penalties for using a modified whip or wealing a horse are appropriate, irrespective of the outcome of any investigation into the Resurrected case. “The use of modified whips is not something that can be tolerated,” Brant Dunshea, the chief regulatory officer, said on Thursday. “The rules of racing are clear on this and the welfare of our participants is our primary concern.
“Having identified that Danny Brock had used a modified whip, the stewards imposed on him the standard penalty for this offence, which is a £140 fine. The horse was checked by vets immediately after the race and at that time the horse was not wealed but a second check of the horse later showed that minor weals had emerged. The jockey had left the racecourse by this time and therefore the stewards referred this second offence to be considered by the independent disciplinary panel at a later date.
“The independent panel decided to replace the initial £140 fine with a seven-day suspension, which is above the standard five-day penalty for minor weals.
“We have not yet received the independent panel’s written reasons for their decision and are therefore unable to comment on this or the penalty they have issued. However, the BHA feels the standard penalties for an offence of this nature do not seem sufficient and will address this specifically when considering the Horse Welfare Board’s broader research and recommendations regarding the whip.
“In summary, the offence was identified and dealt with by the stewards and disciplinary panel in line with, and indeed above, the existing penalty framework. Whether that penalty framework remains appropriate is another matter and one we have decided to take a look at.”
