
# James Milner sends message over Liverpool performances ahead of Man City clash

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:59:18+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/james-milner-sends-message-over-20831206)

James Milner says Liverpool haven't been on top form this season despite their six-point lead at the top of the table, but added that the Reds have worked out how to overcome various ways to stop them.
Jurgen Klopp's side go into Sunday's top-of-the-table clash with Manchester City six points clear of their title rivals, with many people claiming that a win at Anfield would give them one hand on the trophy.
The Reds have won 10 and drawn one of their 11 league games this season, registering late 2-1 successes in recent matches against Leicester City, Tottenham Hotspur and Aston Villa.
But Milner says the Reds can still improve.
“I don't think we've played as well as we would've liked," he said in quotes carried in the club's matchday programme for the Champions League win over Genk in midweek.
"It's been a really solid start and it's pleasing to say that, with the results we've had this season.
“But it's never going to be easy. It was always going to be tough coming off the back of a long season and getting to a Champions League final, the emotion of that and the season being a bit longer, then players taking part in international football throughout the summer and coming back at different times.
“The start we've had has been very good but we know that we can improve."
Milner added that Liverpool's fine recent form has seen clubs come up with different ways to try and get the better of them, but it is up to the Reds to overcome them.
"Teams have been trying to find different ways of playing against us and trying to shut us down, so we have to keep working hard and putting into practice the plans that we're coming up with in training, especially in learning how to play against teams that have that deep, deep defence," he continued.
“Obviously when teams see more of you, they know the style of football that you're going to try to play and they'll try different things to stop you, but that's a compliment to us.
“It poses new challenges and we have to change things in the game and come up with new approaches.
“We watch teams and try to work out what they might do and then work out how we want to play as well. It makes us play different styles and have different gameplans."
