
# 'This team is finished now': Eddie Jones ready for squad overhaul following England's World Cup final defeat

Published at: **2019-11-04T02:13:58+00:00**

Author: **By Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/this-team-is-finished-now-eddie-jones-ready-for-squad-overhaul-following-englands-world-cup-final-defeat)

Eddie Jones has responded to England’s World Cup final defeat by South Africa by admitting the current team is “finished”.
A 32-12 rout in Yokohama on Saturday crushed the nation’s hopes of lifting the Webb Ellis Trophy for the second time after expectations had been raised by emphatic victories over Australia and New Zealand in the previous rounds.
Jones is contracted to remain England head coach until 2021 and the Rugby Football Union is expected to offer fresh terms that will take him to the next World Cup in France.
But a number of the 31-man squad taken to Japan are to be jettisoned for next year’s Six Nations as Jones begins rebuilding for the next assault on the global stage.
“I tell you what happens to teams – they evolve,” said Jones.

        Continue reading below…
      

        Click here to see the video
      
“Some guys will lose desire, some guys will lose fitness, some guys will get injuries, and there’ll be young guys come through. So this team is finished now.
“There will be a new team made – we’ll make a new team for the Six Nations and that new team for the Six Nations will be the basis of going to the next World Cup.
“And I’ll have them for the first two years. And you’re so lucky because you’ve got me for another two years.”
In the build-up to the final Jones spoke about the importance of not “inventing shadows”, but as the dust began to settle on a deflating performance against South Africa that concluded an otherwise outstanding World Cup, he fell into that trap himself.
“I’m so proud of the players, the way they’ve prepared, the way they’ve worked,” Jones said.
