
# 'Do your job!': Rand Paul demands media reveal whistleblower and Congress defend Trump

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:37:21+00:00**

Author: **John Gage**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/do-your-job-rand-paul-demands-media-reveal-whistleblower-and-congress-defend-trump)

Sen. Rand Paul claimed the name of the Ukraine whisteblower is known but said the media is refusing to publish it.
"President Trump has great courage," the Kentucky Republican said at a Monday campaign rally for the president. "He faces down the fake media every day. But Congress needs to step up and have equal courage to defend the president."
"We also now know the name of the whistleblower," Paul continued. "The whistleblower needs to come before Congress as a material witness because he worked with Joe Biden at the same time Hunter Biden was getting money from corrupt oligarchs. I say tonight to the media, 'Do your job and print his name!' And I say this to my fellow colleagues in Congress, to every Republican in Washington, 'Step up and subpoena Hunter Biden and subpoena the whistleblower!'"
Paul's comments come after it was alleged that Eric Ciaramella was the whistleblower. The whistleblower's attorneys said they could "neither confirm nor deny" that Ciaramella was the whistleblower.
House Democrats are in the middle of the process of impeaching Trump over a phone call he had with Ukraine's president that the whistleblower and Democrats claim shows that the president attempted to withhold military aid to Ukraine in exchange for an investigation by Ukraine into Joe Biden.
