
# Strictly judge Craig Revel Horwood slams 'curse' for distracting from show

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:48:12+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/strictly-judge-craig-revel-horwood-20812887)

Craig Revel Horwood has blamed the Strictly 'curse' for distracting from the entertainment of the show.
The 54-year-old Strictly Come Dancing judge has spoken out about the scandals that have rocked the BBC dance competition in recent years.
The 2018 series proved to be particularly problematic after Strictly pro Katya Jones was pictured kissing dance partner Seann Walsh on a night-out.
Revel Horwood told Radio Times magazine: "I think it's a good thing that there isn't as much talk of the 'Strictly Curse', because it did detract from the show last year.
"It was all about that rather than the show being great family entertainment."
The judge has previously said he thought the so-called "Strictly curse" was more of a "blessing".
Now he has told the magazine: "There are a lot of loving relationships that have formed from the show. All I say is, if your relationship is on the rocks and you meet someone, how delightful is that?"
The arrival of Motsi Mabuse on the judging panel, replacing Dame Darcey Bussell, has been welcomed by Craig, who has said she has "brought her verve" to the show.
Speaking about the new addition, Craig said: "She's very able - and she's not particularly guarded, which is good! I'm getting on with her really well and I like it that she tries to put me in my place!.
"She tells it like it is, as I do."
The straight-talking judge said the "dead wood is being kicked out" and suggested this year's celebrities are more competitive, adding, "they're all applying themselves like you would not believe".
Revel Horwood, who tipped actor Kelvin Fletcher to lift the trophy if he gets through to the final, said not as many of the contestants are doing other jobs this year, meaning there is more time to train and "it means a lot more to them now to get through".
Strictly Come Dancing is also facing a renewed fix row after BBC presenter Mike Bushell was saved by the judges after his third dance off in a row.
Mike and his partner Katya Jones went up against Emma Weymouth and Aljaz Skorjanec, with Mike coming out on top in the judges' books.
The show and the judges are facing accusations of being biased toward Mike and fixing it to keep him dancing, especially after the dance off saw pro Katya make a stumble.
Fans of the show took to Twitter and voiced their outrage and shared their theories.

        *The full interview with Craig Revel Horwood is in this week's Radio Times magazine.
      

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
