
# Reader’s Voice: I Think City Made A Big Mistake!

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **SL Social**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/supporters_club/reader-s-voice-i-think-city-made-a-big-mistake/666675)


        I think City has made a huge mistake, mark my words. Benni has already won something in a short space of time, but a new coach may take some time before he brings something to the team. After all, we meet to part. All the best Benni, you are the best despite poor run of late.”
      
These were the thoughts of SL Supporter @ TinklerDocterNgakaemang who feels that Cape Town City’s decision to part ways with head coach, Benni McCarthy could come back to haunt them, as finding a worthy successor might prove to be a daunting task.
The decision was taken after McCarthy managed to accumulate a paltry two wins from 18 games, something that did not particularly sit well with City Chairman, John Comitis.
Despite this, SL Supporter @ YellownationND feels that the club needed to exercise more patience with the former Bafana hitman. 

        “One big mistake. That is the problem with our soccer, there is no patience at all. Teams win and at times teams lose and find themselves in a bad place. It happens all over the world. But I hope he comes to Sundowns and add to technical team.”
      

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
His sentiments are echoed by SL Supporter @aubreybotsotso who is of the opinion that club bosses in South Africa are too quick to pull the trigger when it comes to coaches and are quick to forget the success these individuals achieved at their clubs.

        “What do club owners understand by rainy days? There is no team that will enjoy shiny days forever. This is practically impossible. Since Benni came in at CTC, he did exceptionally well but when he takes a dip, he is sacked? This is the same problem Chippa encountered and they’re still suffering because of management’s arrogance. We cannot afford to live double standards that destroys our beautiful game.”
      
For all the talk about Benni’s departure from City, SL Supporter @Hateme37 feels that the 42-year-old’s exit from the club was long overdue and recent events have not helped his cause either.

        “
        Good riddens of bad rubbish. Benni thought blaming Chiefs and referees will save his job, while he has run out of new ideas. Tinkler built a formidable team while Benni dismantled it. I’m happy CTC took a sound decision.”
      
 

        Do you think Cape Town City made a mistake by letting Benni McCarthy go?
      
