
# PNP-AKG agents nab 3 Chinese kidnappers

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:51:57+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/pnp-akg-agents-nab-3-chinese-kidnappers)

In a report to PNP Officer-in-Charge, Lieutenant General Archie Francisco F. Gamboa, the official identified the arrested suspects as Qui Xia Lin, 23; Lu Wen Wen, 29; and Sun Hoa Tian, 27.  Qui  Xia Lin and Lu Wen Wen are both from Fujian, China while Sun Hoa Tian is from Honan province.        
Estomo said a team of officers from the AKG Luzon Field Unit led by Lieutenant Colonels Joel Saliba and Dexter Versola, with the assistance of officers from the Manila Police District Station 6 arrested the three inside house no. 2653 in Lamayan Street, Sta. Ana, Manila around 8:20 p.m. Thursday.
According to Estomo,  the victim identified as Li Jun, assisted by Chinese interpreter Linda Ong  Lim appeared at their headquarters in Camp Crame to seek assistance regarding his kidnapping.
The official said that during questioning, the victim said he went to the country to work as a personnel of an online gambling company last Wednesday.
The victim said he was promised to be given a monthly salary of 50,000 to 60,000 RMB by his recruiters.
Shortly after he arrived at the Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) Terminal 3 in Pasay City around 7:30 a.m. last Wednesday, the victim said another Chinese national and his Filipino driver fetched him from the airport on board a gray van.
Estomo said that the Chinese said he was surprised when he was taken to a 3-storey building where six more Chinese nationals forced him to sign a 160,000 RMB loan agreement dated September 2019 and instructed him to call his family from China and instruct them to pay his debt.
The PNP-AKG director said that they learned that the victim was beaten up by the suspects who also grabbed his personal belongings including his passport.
