
# Man With Severe Eczema Shares Amazing Transformation After Ditching Steroid Medication

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:12:19+00:00**

Author: **Cameron Frew**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/health/man-with-severe-eczema-shares-amazing-transformation-after-ditching-steroid-medication/)


        Doctors kept telling Jonathan Rowe the same thing: to fight the eczema, use steroids. Alas, it was only when he defied their orders that his skin radically improved. 
      
Rowe, from London, first noticed a patch of eczema at the age of 18. By the time he was 24, it had developed into a full-body rash that was ‘controlling his life’.
The 32-year-old has made an unbelievable transformation in the years since – but he doesn’t have the creams to thank for that.
Every time he went to the doctors, Rowe, an associate director of a bank, was prescribed strong steroid creams along with oral steroids and immunosuppressants.
While they did help to clear the symptoms, there were downsides. Whenever he stopped taking the medication, the eczema would return with a vengeance. Rowe was also concerned about the longtime side effects from taking steroids.

        Rowe explained: 
      
Rowe was put onto cyclosporine, an oral immunosuppressant that weakens the immune system (it’s typically used for rheumatoid arthritis and severe psoriasis). However, he was concerned as the drug was known to increase the risk of serious infections, skin cancer, kidney disease and liver failure.

        Rowe added: 
      
Lastly, he tried Protopic – a similar medication to cyclosporine that burns the skin and clears the eczema for a short while. However, like he’d been repeatedly finding, it wasn’t doing the trick.
Last year, Rowe was researching ways to come off steroid medication to help fight eczema when he came across topical steroid withdrawal (TSW) – a proposed condition that sees skin conditions exacerbated by coming off steroids after a prolonged treatment.
However, when he went to see a consultant dermatologist to discuss TSW, he was met with scepticism and rejection.

        Rowe explained:
      
It was only when Rowe came across the research of Japanese doctor Kenji Sato that he found the solution: no moisture therapy (NMT).

        Rowe said:
      
According to Allergy UK, up to 15 million people in the UK could be living with eczema.

        Cameron Frew
      
After graduating from Glasgow Caledonian University with an NCTJ and BCTJ-accredited Multimedia Journalism degree, Cameron ventured into the world of print journalism at The National, while also working as a freelance film journalist on the side, becoming an accredited Rotten Tomatoes critic in the process. He’s now left his Scottish homelands and took up residence at UNILAD as a journalist.
