
# Shoppers outraged over ‘rip-off’ £45 Cadbury Selection Box seen in Sainsbury's

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:59:37+00:00**

Author: **James Andrews, http://www.facebook.com/jameswritesmoney/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/shoppers-outraged-over-rip-off-20815252)

Shocked shoppers discovered Sainsbury's selling a Cadbury's Selection Box for an astonishing £45.
The deal was spotted by Shane Butler, who promptly posted it on the money-saving site Latest Deals .
His post got a lot of attention, with hundreds of people pointing out how much they could save buying the chocolate themselves.
"It'd be cheaper to buy all the chocolates separately & make the box yourself,” one wrote.
Another said: "Could make it myself for £25 and even have chocolate left over to do a smaller one.”
But the deal - at the same price as it is on the Cadbury's website - might be a bit better than it first looks.
 
The limited edition box measures a massive 75cm x 48 cm x 4cm, and weighs in at 2.1kg and includes 26 chocolate bars.
Inside you find:
"Probably the World's biggest selection box, the Cadbury Ultimate Selection Box is ideal for sharing, containing 26 chocolate bars and weighing over 2 kilos," Cadbury's description reads. "Best of luck fitting this under the tree...."
However, there's something not mentioned on the list that eagle-eyed shoppers pointed out might make it rather good value after all.
"It could be because there is 2 Cadburys World tickets inside and think they retail at £12.85 each,” one person pointed out.
Including those, the price drops to a far more reasonable £19.30 - making it cheaper than buying the chocolate yourself.
