
# Inspiring 9-year-old who does everything for her little sister

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Molly Dowrick**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/inspiring-9-year-old-who-3491281)

A local young carer is a finalist for a national award after caring for her younger sister who has disabilities and supporting her mum.
Miriam Hunter, nine, from Yelverton, has helped her mum care for her sister Rebekah, six, who has Cri du Chat syndrome and severe disabilities since she was born.
Helping care for her sister through assisting with her peg feeding, looking after her when she has seizures, and keeping her relaxed, entertained and safe at home, while also ensuring Rebekah is never by herself, Miriam has always cared for her sister and also helped her mum, who has chronic fatigue.
Miriam's mum, Sarah told Plymouth Live Miriam 'never complains' and acts like a second mum to her sister.
Miriam appeared on CBBC's Operation Ouch earlier this week, as a finalist for 'The Big Heart Award', which recognises children looking after others and making a difference.
Sarah Hunter, Miriam and Rebekah's mum, told Plymouth Live that even though Miriam is just nine years old, she cares for Rebekah extensively, often helping feed Rebekah, looking after her when she has seizures and supporting Rebekah's head, which often falls forward, when Rebekah is travelling in the car, or is poorly.
Rebekah has severe disabilities, Sarah says, and has also been diagnosed with Cri du Chat syndrome, a rare chromosomal condition that results when a piece of chromosome 5 is missing, and a soft cleft palate.
Due to her conditions, she experiences seizures, is at risk of pneumonia and can't be left alone, so Miriam is always on-hand to look after her sister and keep her entertained and safe, Sarah says.
Sarah, who has chronic fatigue (also known as ME), said Miriam 'steps up' to help her and Rebekah, and is 'like a second mum to her sister'.
Sarah told Plymouth Live: "She's like a second mum to her sister. She looks after Rebekah and Joseph [her younger brother].
"Miriam helps with her feeding, Rebekah is peg-fed, and she keeps Rebekah's head up when she's travelling, and really looks after her when she's poorly."
"She [Rebekah] can't be left alone, so Miriam is always there," Sarah added.
Sarah told Plymouth Live that Miriam 'never complains' about having to help her and her sister so much, and is particularly happy to play with her sister, though she sometimes finds it difficult as Rebekah can't talk to her.
"Miriam will often lay down next to her sister and sing Incy Wincy Spider to get Rebekah to laugh and relax," Sarah added.
Now, Miriam is a finalist for a CBBC award in 'The Big Heart Award' category on popular children's TV series 'Operation Ouch'.
Miriam's parents, Sarah and Jonathan, nominated her for the award, but kept it a secret until just before presenters and film crew were due to interview Miriam a few months ago.
During the episode, Miriam explained: "My mum nominated me because I help care for my sister, Rebekah.
"She needs special care because she can't hear much and she can't tell us what she's trying to say.
"I help feeding her, using her pump. I like to cuddle her, she laughs a lot which makes me really happy."
Sarah said: "Rebekah was born with Cri du Chat syndrome and trisomy 10 syndrome - Miriam is constantly always looking out for her.
"Miriam deserves to win this Big Heart Award, because she is the biggest heart that I know," she added.
Sarah says more should be done to thank and congratulate young carers, and is delighted that Miriam has been recognised in the the Big Heart Award category.
Miriam appears in episode eight of the 8th series of Operation Ouch on CBBC, which was first broadcast on October, 30.
