
# Roderick back on his turf

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:30:39+00:00**

Author: **Mario Bautista**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/entertainment/showbiz/roderick-back-his-turf)

No doubt his role as Rita Daniela’s adoptive dad in “One of the Baes” has renewed the audience’s interest in him. He plays a closet queen in the story and he is trying hard to conceal his true self from the people around and pretends that he is macho, especially when he is in front of his hunky male boarders and to his neighbor, Maureen Larrazabal as Carmina, who doesn’t hide her feelings for him.
But slowly, Dick can no longer hide his true self and he has admitted to Rita as Jowalyn that he is gay and she is just his “ampon” since Rita is actually the missing child of Amy Austria. No doubt his riotous antics as Daddy Paps Fernando is one of the reasons why “One of the Baes” is clicking with viewers and making their show a toprater. Mother Lily thinks it’s now the time to also revive his movie career.
“He made some very big hits with us before,” says the Regal matriarch. “Talagang pinilahan noon 'yung ‘Bala at Lipstick’ niya, saka yung ‘Kumander Gringa.’ I think na-miss siya talaga ng tao and puwede na siya uli gumawa ng projects for the big screen.”
Dick says the offer to do “One of the Baes” came at the right time. As we all know, he’s been busy with politics as Quezon City councilor and in the last elections, he ran as vice mayor but lost to Gian Sotto, the son of Helen Gamboa and Sen. Tito Sotto. “So, libreng-libre ako when they offered me the show at natuwa naman ako kasi maganda 'yung role ko,” he says. “More than 10 years when I last did a show and this is something light, full of good vibes at enjoy ako kaya ang bilis ng negotiation namin. Then I met the production people, mostly young and they said the got to see my films before at natutuwa raw sila, so lalo akong ginanahan to work with them.”
Dick’s first gay role where audiences noticed him was in “High School Circa’ 65” in 1979 where  he played a flamboyant and swishy high school student. He then supported Maricel Soriano in “Inday Inday sa Balitaw” after which Regal launched him solo in “Kumander Gringa”, a hit so more solo flicks followed like  “Ako si Kiko, Ako si Kikay”, “Petrang Kabayo” which was a blockbuster so it even had a sequel. Dick won best actor in the Golden Screen Awards for also playing a gay role in “Ded na si Lolo”. We’re really glad that GMA revived his career in “One of the Baes” and Regal now also wants to revive his movie career in these days when only comedy flicks seem to be doing well at the box office, like “Panti Sisters” and “Jowable”.
