
# Order! Order! Bercow twisted words and convention to his own ends—this is who’s been elected to replace him

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:02:00+00:00**

Author: **Rupert Steiner**

Original: [MarketWatch](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/order-order-bercow-twisted-words-and-convention-to-his-own-ends-2019-11-01?amp%3Bsiteid=rss&amp%3Brss=1)

He is one of the most divisive characters in politics.
A showboating lawmaker accused by his critics of hijacking the course of a country with his controversial decisions and verbal grenades. No, this isn’t Donald Trump, the U.S. president, but Speaker John Bercow, the umpire of Britain’s Parliament who stepped down Thursday.
His successor was decided on Monday in a secret ballot. Deputy Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle, the front-runner beat seven other candidates with 323 votes in a four round contest. It was the first election for Speaker in over 10 years.
Bercow had held the position for a decade in what some feared would be a never ending stint as the lead referee in the debating chamber at the heart of U.K politics.
The 56-year-old Conservative Party politician has become one of the most recognized names in U.K. politics for all the wrong reasons.
He reveled in preventing the government from taking control of the Brexit process, favoring three years of protracted debate and scrutiny of the U.K.’s exit from the EU
Previous speakers took pride in steering an almost invisible path to facilitate debate among Britain’s political class, but Speaker Bercow strove to achieve the opposite.
Short in size but big of mouth, he will be best remembered for crimes against the British language. His verbal gymnastics and strangulation of the Queen’s English spawned a raft of viral video clips that have circulated the world.

        Order, ORDER! The best moments from John Bercow:
      
