
# Mercedes chief backs Lewis Hamilton to rewrite F1 record books after securing sixth world title

Published at: **2019-11-04T03:49:30+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/formula-1/mercedes-chief-backs-lewis-hamilton-20806067)

Lewis Hamilton's Mercedes boss has said there is no limit to the British driver's success following his drive to a sixth Formula One world championship.
Hamilton finished second at the United States Grand Prix on Sunday to secure his fifth title in six spellbinding years, moving ahead of the great Juan Manuel Fangio as statistically the second greatest driver of all time.
The 34-year-old Brit is now within just one triumph of Michael Schumacher's record haul of seven.
Hamilton has at least one more year to run on his £40million-a-year Mercedes deal, and has already committed to remaining in the sport beyond next season.
"Lewis is still very motivated and you can see he wants to win every single race," said Mercedes team principal Toto Wolff, who has overseen Hamilton's dominance of the sport.
"As long as that is the case, he can go for more. We need to provide him with a good car. There is no limit."
Hamilton started from fifth on the grid, but came within just four laps of securing the championship in style following the combination of a fine start and a one-stop strategy.
Valtteri Bottas fought his way past Hamilton on the 52nd lap for victory before the British driver managed to hold off Red Bull's Max Verstappen to take the chequered flag as runner-up.
After removing his helmet and balaclava, Hamilton, 34, took a moment to compose himself before standing on top of his Silver Arrows and lapping up the adulation of the Austin crowd.
He ran over to his Mercedes mechanics and collected a British flag.
Hamilton's father Anthony, step-mother Linda and mother Carmen were underneath the podium as their son celebrated another world crown.
"It is an unbelievable win, six world championships, who would ever have dreamed it," Anthony Hamilton told Sky Sports.
"Six means the world to him. This feels like 2007 - the first opportunity we had to win the world championship."
