
# The Boards, They Are A-Transformin’

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Michael Peregrine**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/michaelperegrine/2019/11/06/the-boards-they-are--a-transformin/)

No, it doesn’t mean that the Bard of Fourth Street has become a governance consultant. Nor does it suggest that the board must accommodate a voice of protest in its mix. But it does speak to significant new developments affecting board composition that provide important guidance to the nominating committee.Over the last several weeks, three separate, prominent organizations have released reports that speak to issues that directly impact board composition and related governance topics. These include the latest Blue Ribbon Commission report from the National Association of Corporate Directors (“Fit for the Future: An Urgent Imperative for Board Leadership”), the 2019 Spencer Stuart Board Index and the latest release of the New York City Comptroller’s Boardroom Accountability Project.
These reports, from organizations and officials with disparate orientations, offer a common call for fundamental change in board composition practices. The shared takeaways from these reports are first, that boards of major companies must accelerate their board refreshment practices in order to face looming business challenges; second, that some progress towards that goal is already being made; and third, government is increasingly seeking to be an aggressive “partner” in the director nomination process. The underlying message is that effective governance requires prompt evolution from the “male, pale and stale” status first exposed by The Conference Board’s impactful March, 2019 survey.
The new NACD Blue Ribbon Commission report examines board composition through the lens of what it describes as a “business revolution with profound implications for companies...a period of challenge and transition.” In NACD’s view, the ability of boards to meet the demands posed by this new disruptive environment will depend in part on their ability to add “new types of expertise, experience and capabilities to their ranks.” In other words, the pace and scale of change requires a different, more diverse board membership model. NACD thus links the ability of an organization to maintain a competitive advantage with the willingness of its board to transform its composition.
The NACD report compares the desired board composition to the roster of a successful professional sports team, which combines players with certain fundamental skills and personal attributes with others who possess certain critical talents and capabilities to work together as a cohesive whole. This growing need for specialized expertise is, to NACD, causing nominating committees to move away from the traditional emphasis on directors with the same background (e.g., CEOs or other senior executives); gender (e.g., males); ethnicity (e.g., white); and age (older or at career’s end).
Spencer Stuart’s 2019 Board Index similarly points to indications of board transformation. This Index, reflecting a survey of the S&P 500 and of governance/nominating committee members, reflects a continuing shift in the profile of directors of major corporations. Particular survey results point to a dramatic acceleration of women and minority directors added to S&P 500 boards; reduced emphasis on prior CEO or other senior leadership and/or board experience as prerequisites to board appointment; a greater willingness to consider other corporate leadership skills in the nomination process; and an uptick of concern about director overboarding.
The Index also finds that low boardroom turnover rate continues to persists, and is likely to continue absent more aggressive refreshment practices (e.g., retirement policies/age caps and term limits).
Spencer Stuart attributes the increasing transformation to the willingness of nominating committees to accommodate calls from shareholders and other stakeholders for greater boardroom diversity across the spectrum.
The New York City Comptroller’s release is the third phase of the office’s Boardroom Accountability Project, a campaign begun in 2014 in order to make boards more diverse, independent, and climate competent. This newest initiative calls on companies to adopt a policy requiring the consideration of both women and people of color for every open board seat and for CEO appointments, like a version of the “Rooney Rule” adopted by the National Football League. To promote the initiative, the Comptroller has contacted fifty-six S&P 500 companies that, regardless of the current diversity of their board or CEO, do not currently have a Rooney Rule policy, to advise them that he will file shareholder proposals with companies which lack  apparent racial diversity at the highest levels.
Comptroller Stringer’s call includes gender and racial/ethnic diversity, and is reportedly the first time a large institutional investor has called for this structural reform for both new board of directors and CEOs. The Comptroller’s stated goal with this latest initiative is to “make meaningful, long-lasting, and structural change in the market practice so that women and people of color are welcomed in the door and considered for every open director seat as well as for the job of CEO.”
While the Comptroller’s initiative is not a statutory requirement, it is the latest example of governmental efforts to impose their imprint on the board nomination processes of public and private/nonprofit corporate boards. In this regard it follows the statutory examples set by Florida and Illinois, and by progressive political candidates such as Elizabeth Warren.
Collectively, these reports provide important fodder for nominating committee discussion. Traditional views on the appropriate qualifications for board service may need to be reconsidered. The vigor of director recruitment efforts may need to be recharged. Commitment to effective board refreshment practices may need to be renewed. There’s a lot to be added to the committee’s agenda.
NACD may have gotten it right. Changing times indeed may require changing boards. Of course, the perspectives of a disparate group—a corporate governance trade association, an executive search firm and an elected municipal official—constitute neither law, nor established best practice. But their respective credibility, and the consistency of their message on board transformation merits governance attention. Nominating committees may need to confront the possibility that as to board composition, the waters around them may indeed have grown, and in a big way.
