
# Selena Gomez, Kanye West And Lizzo Score New Top 10 Singles In The U.K.

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Hugh McIntyre**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2019/11/02/selena-gomez-kanye-west-and-lizzo-score-new-top-10-singles-in-the-uk/)

Australian pop singer Tones and I is a non-mover at No. 1 on the U.K. singles chart this week with her breakout smash “Dance Monkey,” which has proven to be a big winner in almost every country on the planet. The cut has now led the charge for five frames, and it looks like it will continue for the coming few turns. Also steady is Regard’s “Ride It,” which is comfortable at No. 2 once again.New to the top 10 is Selena Gomez’s “Lose You to Love Me,” which vaults up the ranking, missing the top spot by only two rungs. The pop star’s new cut debuted at No. 65 last frame after just two days of availability, and now that it’s enjoyed a full tracking frame in which to rack up streams and sales, it has become a true hit.
As Gomez nabs the No. 3 spot, the next two tracks, Post Malone’s “Circles” and Ed Sheeran, Cardi B and Camila Cabello’s “South of the Border,” descend slightly, landing at Nos. 4 and 5, respectively.
As his new album Jesus Is King debuts at No. 2 (behind the latest Stereophonics title), Kanye West lands yet another top 10 hit in the U.K. with “Follow God,” one of the songs featured on the set. The most popular track from his new release marks his twenty-first appearance in the U.K.’s top 10. 
The third and last new entrant inside this week’s top 10 across the pond comes from R&B/pop/hip-hop powerhouse (in the making) Lizzo, who breaks into the tier for the first time. “Good as Hell,” a song featured on an EP she released years ago, is surging all around the world, and it jumps up the list this time around thanks to a new version shared recently that features Ariana Grande. While Grande may not be credited on the U.K. chart, she did help Lizzo beat her previous best showing.
The final three spots inside the new top 10 in the U.K. are owned by Maroon 5’s “Memories” (No. 8), Dermot Kennedy’s “Outnumbered” (No. 9) and Lewis Capaldi’s “Bruises” (No. 10). 
