
# Is Saginaw, Michigan’s Jermaine Franklin The Next American Heavyweight Champion?

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/04/is-saginaw-michigans-jermaine-franklin-the-next-american-heavyweight-champion/)

The sport of boxing is more popular when an American is the heavyweight champion of the world. You’ve heard that saying before, and it’s hard to confirm it’s 100 percent true, but the sport is as entrenched in social media, television and streaming services as it’s been in years. Deontay Wilder and Andy Ruiz are the recognized heavyweight champions, and both are American.Ruiz will defend the WBO, IBF and WBA titles he took from England’s Anthony Joshua on December 7 in Saudi Arabia. If you’re like me, you think Joshua will exact his revenge and regain his titles.
Tyson Fury is still the lineal champion, for whatever that’s worth, and he is lined up to rematch Wilder if the latter can get past Luis Ortiz in yet another rematch later this month. I thought Fury won the first fight with Wilder, but I strongly doubt he can win the rematch.
If things go south for Wilder and Ruiz, we could go from two American heavyweight champions to none in a matter of months. As you can see, there is a lot happening in boxing, and that’s just the heavyweight division.
Maybe that saying is right after all. Business is seemingly booming, but who’s next? Who’s the next heavyweight, even more specifically, who is the next American ready to announce their presence on the division’s title scene?
It just might be Saginaw, Michigan native and undefeated up-and-comer Jermaine Franklin. The 26-year-old is 20-0 with 13 KOs as a professional and currently signed with Showtime. In his last fight, he scored a hard-fought unanimous-decision victory over Pavel Sour in front of fans in his home state.
I had an opportunity to speak to Jermaine about his rise, his plans for the future, connection to Saginaw, and title hopes.
I also spoke to his promoter Dmitriy Salita about signing Franklin and what originally drew him to the young heavyweight.
“When I signed Jermaine he had a very impressive resume,” said Salita. “He had a great amateur career winning the national golden gloves and beat some very solid fighters on his way up the pro ranks but few knew who he was since he never fought on TV.   It was important to get him on TV in solid competitive match ups and build him as the next American Heavyweight. I am very happy that his three fights since signing with me have all been on Showtime against some very good competition.  Jermaine is only 26 years old and is improving with each fight.”  
It’s important not to rush a young fighter, especially in the heavyweight division where the margin for error can be so small. Salita expects to see Franklin challenging for a world title in 2021, and that’s obviously assuming things go as planned with his fights through 2020.
In the event you haven’t seen Franklin fight, you might have to wait a few months for his next bout. He probably won’t be back in the ring until early next year. Franklin told me he feels he definitely needs a few more fights before he’s ready to challenge for the title.
However, Salita assured me, he “wants to keep Jermaine busy.”
One of the most refreshing things about Franklin is his commitment to his hometown of Saginaw, Michigan. As we’ve seen with Deontay Wilder and Terence Crawford, excellent fighters from towns that aren’t traditionally associated with big-time boxing can still put their cities on the map with their skills and a commitment to represent their home.
It appears Franklin wants to do that with Saginaw.
The state of Michigan has produced some of the best fighters in the sport of boxing Tommy Hearns, Floyd Mayweather, Claressa Shields, etc,” said Salita. “Saginaw is a rough place and Jermaine has shown to the kids in that community that with vision and hard work, dreams come true. That’s what America and land of opportunities is about and I believe Jermaine is the next best American Heavyweight prospect contender for his accomplishments inside the ring and his passion and drive outside it.”
Whether Franklin is indeed the best American heavyweight prospect remains to be seen, but one thing is for sure, with Showtime pushing him and some noteworthy skills, the world will be watching–especially Saginaw.
