
# Chris Kamara accidentally lets slip Strictly result spoiler in Alex Scott interview

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:52:50+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/chris-kamara-accidentally-lets-slip-17192933)

Chris Kamara has left Strictly viewers with raised eyebrows today - after he appeared to "leak" the results of the show.
The Sky Sports pundit, who is routinely seen on Soccer Saturday and Goals on Sunday, appeared to reveal the results of Sunday's show.
Strictly Come Dancing airs each Saturday evening, and also tapes its results show the same night.
The results are then aired on Sunday nights on BBC One meaning, occasionally, things leak and accidentally slip out from audience members and those in the "know".
Today, Kammy welcomed current Strictly contestant Alex Scott, the former Arsenal star, onto Goals on Sunday.
The Sky Sports star was interviewing Alex, who is currently partnered with Neil Jones on Strictly.
Alex was discussing her stint on the show, which has seen her partner with Kevin Clifton for two weeks running, after Neil suffered a horror injury during training and rehearsals.
Alex was forced to dodge a series of tricky questions from Kammy on Goals on Sunday.
He asked: "What's the dance next weekend?".
"Well... it's the results show tonight so, I don't know yet," Alex laughed.
 
Kamara responded: "Right."
"From here, I go there [to the studio]," Alex giggled, and Kammy burst out laughing.

        
          Strictly Come Dancing returns to BBC One for its results show tonight
        
      
