
# Tennis player Roisín at No. 5 and counting

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/sport/roundup/articles/2019/11/02/4181823-tennis-player-roisn-at-no-5-and-counting/)

IT'S a bit like the countdown to the top five hits, only Roisín Murphy is more interested in the tennis charts than the music charts.
Currently ranked at number 5 in Ireland, the 16-year-old fifth year student as St. Joseph's Secondary School, Castlebar, is aiming to be number 1 in what is one of the most competitive individual sports.
Roisín obviously had the sporting DNA from an early age as she began to take an interest in tennis around the age of five when she and her older brother enrolled in Castlebar Tennis Club to take lessons.
It may turn out to be the first step in her bid to make it as a professional tennis player but she knows that she faces a long, tough and possibly at times a lonely journey, given the demands of reaching the top in her chosen sport, a sport that can yield big rewards but demands huge sacrifices in return.
She puts those demands into context: "Having all the shots is well and good and you can get as fit as you need to be, but the mental side of the game is so important. If you don't have good positivity you won't make it.
"If you are sending out negative vibes on court then it will bring your whole game down. You need to know how and when to change your game. Even if you are losing, make sure you stay positive."
Such wise words from one so young would suggest that, contrary to the old adage, perhaps it is possible to put an old head on young shoulders.
For that she is very appreciative of a support team that has helped her to get to that number 5 in the Irish junior rankings, notably her coach, Garrett Barry, and her strength and conditioning man, Seamus King, while her school, particularly the principal, Ms. McCabe, has played a significant role in her development by helping her get the balance right between her studies and her sport.
And, of course, her family have backed her all the way, particularly her parents Brendan and Fiona, who have always been there for her when needed.
That positivity she spoke about shines from the eyes of this young lady as she beams with so much enthusiasm and passion about her plans for the future and her desire to get a scholarship to the United States.
You get the sense that she is she ready to follow the dream wherever it may take her, but one thing is for sure - her feet are firmly planted on the ground - or perhaps, more appropriately, on the court.
She is already serving above her weight as she has won a senior tournament at 16 and has two years more at junior level before she turns senior at the age of 18.
From six to 16, it has been a mixed bag for Roisín, who has enjoyed a lot of success but also knows the pain of disappointment. To get to number 5 in Ireland is a huge achievement though, and one she is rightly proud of.
A few things fell right for her at the right time, like the decision of Castlebar Tennis Club to erect a dome. It has given her more time for training in the winter months in particular, while the other big change was the decision to train in Dublin at the weekends with the Leinster players.
"The dome has really made a huge difference given the weather we experience in the west.
"The Leinster players have plenty of indoor facilities. Now I can train in Castlebar at any time of the year that has really made a huge difference.
"Also the decision by my coach (Garrett Barry) to get me to train with the Leinster players in Dublin has really brought me on a lot as I get to play against the very top players."
Both Garrett and Seamus (King) have been huge forces in driving her forward and helping her to get the best from herself, along with the director of coaching at Castlebar Tennis Club, Dan Irimia.
In fact, the support in general from her club has been huge and she really does appreciate the role the club and the coaches have played in getting her to her current ranking position.
"Garrett does all the technical work with me. I am so lucky to have him as my coach as he is one of the best in Ireland and has only been recently appointed national performance director, which is one of the highest rankings in Ireland, and I am fortunate to have him in Castlebar
"Seamus is my strength and conditioning coach and he focusses on speed, stamina and agility.
“Obviously in tennis you have to be very quick on your feet and make sure you have the stamina for long games, while Dan also helps me with many aspects of my game."
Roisín began to emerge as a quality player when she hit the early teens and began to develop at Under 14 level, winning many tournaments, whiie she was also competing well at Under 12 level, while at just 11 she won her first tournament.
"One of my most memorable days was taking the Under 16 runner-up place at the national indoors.
"That was really exciting as it was my first encounter with some of the top players at that level and it was great to get to the final."
She has also begun to pick up vital experience playing abroad, notably in Europe.
"Playing abroad in tournaments in Latvia, Romania and Holland were experiences that will stand to me. It was great to go to those places in Europe and come up against so many girls from different countries.
“The standard was really high and they were great places to make new friends. I really enjoyed it."
Closer to home, last August she won the senior women’s title at the Pamex tournament, which was hosted by Castlebar Tennis Club, while she was selected to play for Connaught at junior and senior level.
"It's always enjoyable and rewarding to put in a winning performance at your own club and I really enjoyed the Pamex tournament.
"To win the senior title before our home support was special, while I really enjoyed representing my province at both Under 16 and Under 18 level," she said.
Looking ahead, she is eagerly looking forward to the next two years as she strives to fulfil all her promise as a junior player before moving to the more demanding senior ranks.
There is, of course, that matter of her Leaving Certificate next year but, so far at least, Roisin has got the balance right.
Her heart is set on fulfilling her potential as a tennis player and you just get the feeling that this young lady is determined to succeed no matter what it takes.
Said Roisín: "This is my second year at Under 16 and then I will be going to Under 18, and I am really looking forward to the challenges ahead.
"My aim is to improve my ranking for next year so I will be training hard for the summer in particular and taking part in as many tournaments as I possibly can.
"Hopefully things will fall right for me and I get to go on that scholarship to the US."
Just an keep an eye out for the name Roisín Murphy, for whom the future looks bright, very bright.
