
# ISL 2019-20 | Proved that we can play against every team, says Robert Jarni

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:18:40+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/02/isl-2019-20-proved-that-we-can-play-against-every-team-says-robert-jarni?utm_medium=rss)


        NorthEast United's head coach Robert Jarni has stated that his team has proven they can play against every team after their draw against FC Goa at the Indira Gandhi Stadium on Friday. He has also appreciated his players and extended his support despite the team conceded a late goal.
      
The Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium in Guwahati, on Friday, saw a thrilling match in which NorthEast United and FC Goa shared the spoils. The see-saw game had everything, from brilliant goals to late minute dramas. The Gaurs first scored through Hugo Boumous, however, in the second half, the Highlanders came back into the game with brilliant goals of Asamoah Gyan and Redeem Tlang. 
But the game was not over yet as Goan substitute Seminlen Doungel was sent off to red card for a foul and another substitute Manvir Singh scored a brilliant header at the injury time to level the scores. The Croatian expressed his happiness and termed the game as proof that they can play against every team. 
“They started the game very well. in the first 25 minutes, they were very strong. They had a few chances to increase their lead but didn’t convert it. But then in the second half, we started very well,” said Robert Jarni at the post-match press conference, ISL website reported.
“We created a few chances and converted two of them. We were leading, but at the end, the points were shared. So, they started better but in the second half, we played better than them. The feeling is that both teams played very good, but we lost two points. When players saw their character and their intensity, we proved that we can play against every team. So, congratulations to the players.”
At the half-time hosts, NorthEast United was trailing by a goal of Hugo Boumous, however, coach Robert Jarni had a pep talk with his team at half time. 
“After the first half an hour, the team started to play better. At half-time, I told them to play with confidence and to believe in their abilities. And they did it in the second half.” said Jarni.
“Yes, it’s possible (that our concentration was affected) because when these kinds of things happen, people lose control a little bit. It’s normal. The players are at 200 beats per minute. So, it’s normal. But we have to control the situations to avoid problems like this one.” the Croatian added.
