
# Catherine Tyldesley meets Hayley Tamaddon's new baby Jasper after Strictly exit

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:41:23+00:00**

Author: **Emmeline Saunders**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/catherine-tyldesley-meets-hayley-tamaddons-20818757)

Catherine Tyldesley has fallen in love with her co-star Hayley Tamaddon's new baby son Jasper - who was born after Hayley was warned for years she would never conceive.
The Coronation Street co-stars cosied up with little Jasper, who was born two weeks early in October, at Hayley's cosy home.
Sharing a sweet picture of herself cradling the newborn, Catherine wrote on Instagram : "So in love."
A grateful Hayley thanked her ex Strictly Come Dancing pal for coming over tweeting: "We had another visitor today! Auntie Cath came round! @Cath_Tyldesley Thankyou my love, for your kindness and friendship."
Catherine replied: "Oh babe he’s just beautiful and so are you clever mummy."
It came after the soap star, who played Corrie's Eva Price from 2011 to 2018, was knocked out of Strictly in a shock exit.
Catherine was booted off the BBC show after she and her partner Johannes Radebe went head-to-head against Mike Bushell and Katya Jones in the dance off.
And she didn't hold back and made her feelings known when she liked Hayley's scathing tweet about her surprise exit , which read: "Sorry but @Cath_Tyledesley did not deserve to go tonight in @bbcstrictly... she was the better dance by far..
"Hold your head up high my darling Cath... you've been a joy to watch from start to finish. Big love to you and @jojo_radebe."
In the week and a bit since she was voted off, Catherine has been coming to terms with her normal everyday routine.
She shared a video of herself sitting in her car outside the gym, telling fans she couldn't face going inside to work out.
"She's been sitting outside the gym for quite some time now trying to psyche myself up," Catherine explained.
"I just think, since I finished Strictly, if I go near a gym my body's like, 'what? After weeks of that you want me to...? Ha! Nugh-uh, girlfriend. That's what my body's actually saying: no.
"Failing that I might just go and have a steam room for an hour..."
She returned to Instagram a little while later, saying: "It escalated fast. She's lying down. I'm going to go in in a minute, honest."
Meanwhile, 42-year-old Hayley has been adjusting to life as a new mum.
She share the first full picture of her little boy two weeks after giving birth, and revealed his name.
"2 weeks ago..and a little earlier than expected I gave birth to our beautiful baby boy.. we have called him ...JASPER," she wrote.
"It’s been a whirlwind!! The most incredible life changing experience.. it’s beyond anything I’ve ever felt.. it’s a love so strong and overwhelming.. i just cry when I look at him! I feel truly blessed that he's mine.
"Thankyou for all your wonderful messages - and for a lot of you - going on this journey with me, and letting me share my stories and pictures with you all. There’s going to be a few more on here soon!
"I also want to thank the most amazing midwives and doctors at Saint Mary’s hospital that took care of us both so well.. what amazing, hard working people.. there are too many names to mention but they all know who they are. Thankyou for everything."
She added: "elcome to the world Jasper...Your mummy and daddy love you so very much. And I can’t wait to see what the universe has in store for you. I’ll be right there by your side, every step of the way."
