
# Man who committed theft to clear his son’s loan arrested

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/man-who-committed-theft-to-clear-his-sons-loan-arrested/articleshow/71945720.cms)

A 61-year-old notorious inter-state thief, who had committed a theft to repay his son’s loan, has been arrested. The accused has nearly 100 cases registered against him in the city, neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. The accused has been identified as Prakash alias Ravi Prakash alias Kamalanagar Prakash, a resident of Chikkabanavara in Vidyaranyapura area. The accused had stolen cash, silver valuables and a laptop from a saloon accessories shop located in BEL, 1st block. “The accused stated that his son had incurred a loss in his business and was unable to clear the loan. And hence, he had to resort to committing the theft. Before stealing at the accessories shop, the accused had made a futile theft attempt at a finance firm assuming that there could be enough money. The stolen silver ornaments were kept for the Deepavali celebrations when Prakash nabbed them. Due to his infamous activities, the police managed to identify him immediately after his movements were captured in CCTV camera in the vicinity,” said an officer on part of investigations. The accused has been active in the crime field since the age of 20. Prakash had only recently come out of jail, six months ago and started stealing again.
