
# Eat, Sip, Save: three Italian meal deals to try

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:31:00+00:00**

Author: **Time Out Dubai staff**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/restaurants/421455-eat-sip-save-three-italian-meal-deals-to-try)

Eat, Sip, Save is fully underway and restaurants across Dubai are serving up some top bargains this month.Throughout November we’ve teamed up with restaurants across the city to lay on some amazing discounts this month.Eat, Sip, Save is taking place across Dubai for 30 whole days, and you have plenty of time to grab a bargain before November 30.We’ve rounded up three top Italian meal deals for you to check out this month.For a full list of deals, click here.Armani/DeliFor an authentic Italian brunch, at a discount, this one, in Burj Khalifa, is for you. Armani/Deli in Downtown Dubai has a vast range of antipasti, fresh seafood, handmade pasta, risottos, cheese and charcuterie platters, extravagant desserts and more is sure to keep you happy. Plus this month, you’ll get 25 percent off the brunch, which starts at Dhs345 for a minimum of two pax booking. Pass-a the pasta.From Dhs310. Fri 12.30pm-5pm. Armani Hotel Dubai, Downtown Dubai (04 888 3666).CertoThis Dubai Media City spot consistently serves up quality grub including traditional pizzas cooked in a wood-fired oven and hearty pasta dishes. Visit for dinner and enjoy any pizza or pasta with a glass of house grape for Dhs75. Pasta dishes include pappardelle with porcini mushrooms and homemade spinach and ricotta ravioli, while pizzas on offer range from to traditional margherita to the primavera pizza which is topped with mozzarella, asparagus, smoked salmon, ricotta and red onions.Open daily noon-3.15pm, 6pm-11pm. Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City (04 366 9111).SplendidoThere are few cuisines more romantic than Italian, which is why Splendido has date night written all over it. And between November 1 and November 30 you’ll get two main courses and a bottle of grape for Dhs295 per couple. A date night for under Dhs250 for two? You can’t say fairer than that. Our advice? Book a seat outside amid the twinkly lights and pretty gardens for the ultimate romance.Open daily 6pm-11pm. The Ritz-Carlton Dubai, The Walk, JBR (04 399 4000).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
