
# Report: Fox News Management Forbids Hosts from Naming Whistleblower

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:47:46+00:00**

Author: **Joshua Caplan**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/the-media/2019/11/06/report-fox-news-management-forbids-hosts-from-using-alleged-name-of-ukraine-whistleblower/)

CNN Business states that while some Fox News personalities want to use the name reportedly linked to the “whistleblower” complaint, bosses have warned against the move. On October 31, an unnamed executive emailed staff that the network had not  “independently confirmed [the] name or identification of the anonymous whistleblower” and advised to “NOT fulfill any video or graphic requests” in connection to the so-called “whistleblower’s” identity, according to the report.
The demand from Fox News management to staff includes some of the network’s most-high profile personalities, including Sean Hannity. Jeanine Pirro, host of Justice with Judge Jeanine, suggested on Friday that hosts were to follow the guidelines, telling viewers that she and other employees “apparently can’t say Ciaramella’s name.” On Monday, Hannity said he “confirmed independently” the so-called “whistleblower’s” name, though he opted against revealing this name.
“You know what, I will play the game for a little bit,” he told viewers. “I will take the lawyers’ threats that they’re going to sue me; it wouldn’t go anywhere.”
CNN’s report came as reporters expressed fury over Donald Trump Jr. tweeting a Breitbart News article containing Ciaramella’s name, despite this particular guess at his identity being discussed publicly for several days.
Last week, a RealClearInvestigations report suggested Ciaramella, a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) analyst, is the so-called “whistleblower.” Even before the RealClearInvestigations report, Ciaramella’s name had been floating around circles of political observers and social media.
The Breitbart News report tweeted by Trump Jr. detailed how Ciaramella has previous ties individuals behind the discredited Steele dossier, which in part was used by the FBI to obtain a FISA warrant to surveil the 2016 Trump campaign:
“Because of course he did!!!” the president’s eldest son tweeted of the report, prompting outrage from some in establishment politics and media circles.
