
# Emma Watson Says She's Finally 'Very Happy' Being Single: 'It Took Me a Long Time'

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:58:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29688308/emma-watson-single-turning-30-interview/?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM)

Emma Watson isn't the type to talk much about her love life, but she'll tell British Vogue this: She doesn't have a boyfriend (so any mystery men she's photographed kissing aren't that serious), and she's actually very content with that. Being at peace with being single didn't happen immediately, Watson told the outlet for its December 2019 issue.
“I never believed the whole ‘I’m happy single’ spiel,” she said. “I was like, ‘This is totally spiel.’ It took me a long time, but I’m very happy [being single]. I call it being self-partnered.”
Watson spoke generally about how the pressure to be at a certain place by 30, which Watson will turn next April, had an effect on her. She said 2019 was "tough" because she “had all these ideas” about how she envisioned her life at 30.
"I was like, ‘Why does everyone make such a big fuss about turning 30? This is not a big deal…’" she started. “Cut to 29, and I’m like, ‘Oh my God, I feel so stressed and anxious. And I realize it’s because there is suddenly this bloody influx of subliminal messaging around. If you have not built a home, if you do not have a husband, if you do not have a baby, and you are turning 30, and you’re not in some incredibly secure, stable place in your career, or you’re still figuring things out… There’s just this incredible amount of anxiety."
But with time, Watson accepted and came to embrace where she is now: building her career and living life on her terms, not any subliminal timeline's.
