
# Every Edward Norton Movie Performance, Ranked

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:00:07+00:00**

Author: **Tim Grierson, Will Leitch**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/article/best-edward-norton-movies-ranked.html?utm_medium=s1&utm_source=tw&utm_campaign=nym)

Edward Norton graduated from Yale with a degree in history in 1991 and moved to Japan to … work for his grandfather’s company, Enterprise Foundation, a nonprofit organization dedicated to building low-income housing. (Norton remains a lifetime trustee of the organization, and he speaks fluent Japanese.) He lasted five months before deciding to give it a go as an actor in New York. Within the first year he impressed Edward Albee and began performing in one-act plays for him, within three he was heading Broadway shows, and within five he was nominated for an Oscar and starring in movies for Milos Forman and Woody Allen.
It sort of makes sense: At his best, Norton is able to make acting look effortless. His ease sometimes gets the best of him, in that he sometimes challenges himself so much that you can feel him showing he’s a Serious Actor. There’s no need: Norton has the chops and does well when he doesn’t feel obliged to show them off. (It’s remarkable that he’s 50 years old, by the way: To many people who saw him first in his breakthrough year of 1996, he’ll always be the altar boy from Primal Fear and the earnest lawyer of The People vs. Larry Flynt.)
With the release of Motherless Brooklyn, the adaptation of the fantastic Jonathan Lethem novel and the second film Norton has directed, we take a look back at his career and rank his performances, from neo-Nazis to Hulks and everything in between.
This infamous Will Smith disaster takes just about everyone down with it, from Smith all the way to the end of the credits. Norton benefits by not having to play “Love,” “Time,” or “Death” — sorry, Keira Knightley, Jacob Latimore, and Helen Mirren — but as Smith’s co-worker who helps put together the plan that will supposedly help him go on with his life (and of course help himself), he ends up with the film’s most treacly moments. May Norton never have to say the line, “It wasn’t that I felt love, it was that I felt like I had become love” ever, ever again. 
This prequel to The Silence of the Lambs — in which Anthony Hopkins, who is 11 years older, is supposed to be 11 years younger — features Norton as Will Graham, the role that Hugh Dancy would play in the (much better) television show Hannibal. Dancy’s not a better actor than Norton, but he’s better as Graham, if only because his Graham is just callow and self-centered enough to think he’s the star of his own story. Norton digs deep into the character but just isn’t able to find much there, leaving him mostly with empty Method shtick. It’s worth noting that no one remembers this movie, or Norton in it.
