
# Greta Thunberg Left Wrong-Boated After Crunch UN Climate Summit Moves to Another Continent

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:05:50+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/world/201911021077208996-greta-thunberg-left-wrong-boated-after-crunch-un-climate-summit-moves-to-another-continent/)


        Swedish eco-warrior Greta Thunberg crossed the Atlantic in the summer to speak to world leaders ahead of the UN General Assembly meeting. She had expected to stay in the Americas for another month to attend another important climate change summit in Chile, but there has been a sudden change of schedule.
      
Greta Thunberg is never in a flying mood, but recent developments in Chile might force her to reconsider her attitude to aircraft.
The 16-year-old activist – whose climate expertise remains a source of debate – made a 15-day voyage across the Atlantic this August. She has since addressed world leaders at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York and joined climate strikes in Canada, and is currently rallying young people in wildfire-hit California against the “failing older generations” of decision-makers.
Greta’s initial plan was to visit South and Central America and wrap up her journey to the New World with an address to the UN COP25 climate conference, slated for early December. However, mass anti-government protests prompted Santiago to pull out as host this week. The event – billed as the world’s most important conference on climate change – has been relocated to Spain.
The news has seemingly caught Greta off-guard. “As #COP25 has officially been moved from Santiago to Madrid I’ll need some help,” she tweeted on Friday. “It turns out I’ve traveled half around the world, the wrong way. Now I need to find a way to cross the Atlantic in November... If anyone could help me find transport I would be so grateful.”
