
# Microsoft is rolling out the new Edge logo to the Canary, Dev, and Beta channels

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:48:00+00:00**

Author: **Pradeep**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/microsoft-is-rolling-out-the-new-edge-logo-to-the-canary-dev-and-beta-channels/)

Over the weekend, we reported that Microsoft Edge is getting a new logo. Microsoft officially unveiled the new Edge logo yesterday at the Ignite 2019 conference. The new Edge logo is designed to capture the waves of innovation that Microsoft is planning to deliver. Today, Microsoft is rolling out this new logo to all users. This new logo is rolling out to all channels: Canary, Developer, and Beta.
At Ignite, Microsoft announced the availability of the release candidate of the new Microsoft Edge for Windows and macOS. Microsoft also mentioned that the new Microsoft Edge will be generally available on Jan. 15 in more than 90 languages. Unlike the existing Edge browser, the new Microsoft Edge is powered by the same Chromium web engine that powers Google’s Chrome browser, so it will deliver great web compatibility and performance.
On top of compatibility and performance, Microsoft will deliver new innovative features such as Collections, that let you more easily collect web content, organize your research and export that content into Word and Excel so that you can use the power of those applications to analyze information and collaborate. In this new Microsoft Edge, tracking prevention will be on by default. With SmartScreen and Tracking prevention, Microsoft will protect you from phishing schemes, malicious software and others. Microsoft Edge and Bing will also offer new InPrivate mode across your entire web experience. In this new mode, even your online searches and browsing are not attributed to you, offering you more control over your personal data.
