
# Jim Gibney: Main objective of this election is to elect as many Remain MPs as we can

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jim Gibney**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/opinion/2019/11/06/news/jim-gibney-main-objective-of-this-election-is-to-elect-as-many-remain-mps-as-we-can-1757293/)

Three highly significant events occurred this week which reflect the fundamental changes that are taking place in Irish society in relation to a new and shared Ireland.
The first was the decision by the leader of the SDLP, Colum Eastwood, to withdraw his party’s candidates from North Belfast, East Belfast and North Down; the second was the one-thousand strong letter from a range of influential figures in southern society calling on the Taoiseach Leo Varadkar to set up a Citizens Assembly to plan for a new, agreed and independent Ireland and the third was the decision by Sinn Féin’s leader Mary Lou MacDonald not to stand candidates in South Belfast, East Belfast and North Down.
The leaders of Sinn Féin and the SDLP need to be commended for their decisions.
They are courageous and visionary.
The decisions reflect the political changes in the north which began in 2016 when the people voted to Remain and have continued through a series of significant political developments.
The most significant of these developments following on from the 2016 Remain vote was the loss by the unionist parties of their majority in the north’s assembly.
This was replaced by a pro-Remain majority in the assembly made up of Sinn Féin, SDLP, Alliance and the Green Party.
This majority has set the political agenda in opposing Brexit and the DUP’s support for it and won a significant victory in the EU election when two pro-Remain MEPs, Martina Anderson and Naomi Long were elected to one Brexit MEP, Diane Dodds.
The pro-Remain sentiment from 2016 has been consistent in its opposition to Brexit and the beneficiaries of it have been the people of Ireland, north and south.
The Boris Johnson deal is the latest example of this sentiment securing progress, in limiting the worst aspects of Brexit, through the support of the Irish government and the EU.
Ireland, without economic or political borders, and remaining inside the customs union and single market is consistent with the aspirations of the pro-Remain constituency in the north.
If it can be done, and in politics there is always an ‘if’, the Sinn Féin, SDLP decisions could help elect John Finucane in North Belfast, Claire Hanna in South Belfast, Naomi Long in East Belfast and Sylvia Hermon in North Down.
The main objective in this Westminster election is similar to the EU election – to elect as many pro-Remain MPs and reduce the number of pro-Brexit MPs.
The ‘Ireland’s Future’ letter is the product of the political winds of change blowing across Ireland over the last number of years which have impacted on nationally minded influential figures like Fintan O Toole, Andree Murphy, David McWilliams, Frances Black, Jim Sheridan, Sharon Shannon, Christy Moore, Adrian Dunbar, Martina Devlin, James McClean, Maighréad Ní Mhaonaigh and Ailbhe Smith, who signed the letter.
The letter is also influenced by the growth of the northern nationalist population and the likelihood that nationalists will be a voting majority before 2030; the impact of Brexit and the chaos and fear it has created and the commitment from Taoiseach Leo Varadkar and minister for foreign affairs Simon Coveney that the people of the north will not again be left behind.
The huge number of people who signed the letter and their respected place in Irish society demonstrates that the issue of a new Ireland appeals to a well-placed and broad section of opinion and is not confined to the north.
The task of finding the way forward towards a new and shared Ireland is the responsibility of many people and organisations and not just from a nationalist background.
Commenting on the letter, ‘Ireland’s Future’ spokesperson Niall Murphy said: “It’s time for a new national discussion about our shared future in Ireland. So, let’s have the discussion now. And I would urge everyone to get involved, especially our unionist brothers and sisters.”
It is quite clear from the 2016 Remain vote that unionists are thinking differently about relationships between Ireland and Britain.
The Remain vote does not mean that those unionists who voted are united Irelanders but it does mean that unionists are seeking more control over affairs here on this island and know that Brexiteers care little about the people of Ireland whatever their political allegiance.
And that Ireland, in the face of Brexit north and south, needs protected by the people and politicians who live here.
