
# Bad Saint’s Tom Cunanan headlines D.O.T.’s Chefs’ Tour in Philippines

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:10:58+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/06/bad-saints-tom-cunanan-headlines-d-o-t-s-chefs-tour-in-philippines/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
CELEBRATED Filipino-American chef Tom Cunanan of the popular Washington, D.C.,  restaurant, Bad Saint, will be arriving in the Philippines next week for a series of events to help expand the market for Philippine cuisine abroad.
He will be joined by two other Fil-Am chefs, Chef Charles Olalia of Ma’am Sir, pronounced by LA Times as one of the 18 hottest restaurants in Los Angeles in 2018, and Chef Grant “Lanai” Tabura, host of food show Cooking Hawaiian Style  and winner of Food Network’s The Great Food Truck Race.
The Chefs’ Tour project is an initiative of the Department of Tourism (DOT). In an interview, Tourism Secretary Bernadette Romulo Puyat told the BusinessMirror the project is “in  keeping with the agency’s  goal of positioning the Philippines as a center of gastronomy in Asia.”
She added, “The objective is for the  Fil-Am chefs to learn more about our Filipino heirloom recipes, iconic delicacies, heritage dishes and ingredients so they can expand their food offerings in their respective restaurants as a way of promoting the unique Filipino culinary culture.”
Also, through this project, “Culinary students will learn about the challenges  faced by the chefs in setting up their restaurants, and how they were able to adapt and innovate their dishes to appeal to their respective target markets,” said the DOT chief.
The chefs will be interacting with students via Wofex University teaching activity and cooking demo, “Food Trip, Food Talk” in Pampanga, Bacolod and Davao. Wofex University is a project of the World Food Expo, the biggest food and culinary trade show in the country. As part of its advocacy, Wofex organizers advance education beyond what is learned from the classroom through Wofex University activities nationwide. They invite industry practitioners to share their experiences that are relevant to food service professionals.
The 14-day trip of the chefs in the Philippines include visits to wet markets, lunches with professional cooks and chefs specializing in home cooking, farm tours, food crawls in Metro Manila and various provinces, as well as visits to cultural destinations and local food producers.
Cunanan, just this May, received the prestigious James Beard award for Best Chef: Mid-Atlantic, after being a finalist successively since 2017. His culinary expertise, and Filipino menu at the restaurant he co-owns with fellow Fil-Ams Genevieve Villamora and Nick Pimentel, has been winning a lot of praise from renowned food critics since it opened in 2015.
Bad Saint, named after the place where Filipinos originally settled in the United States, Saint Malo, Louisiana, was named the second Best New Restaurant in the US in 2016. New York Times headlined its review of the 26-seater Bad Saint in 2016 as “Filipino food worth the wait.”
Last October 29, the NYT again raved over Bad Saint in its piece, “10 Reasons Washington Is a Great Restaurant City.” Wrote Brett Anderson, “The cooking is modestly presented, but often extravagantly delicious, with flavors that taste like fresh revelations: the notes of squid-ink musk in a sour-hot adobo, or the charred coconut that provides a vanilla rasp to goat braised in lemongrass.”
Born in Olongapo City before his family moved to Maryland when he was three years old, Cunanan made his way through Washington, D.C.’s highly competitive restaurant industry, cooking at Vidalia, Zentan, and DC Coast, before becoming sous chef at the now-closed Ardeo + Bardeo in Cleveland Park.
He was supposed to have been one of the guest speakers at the fourth serving of Madrid Fusion Manila in 2018, which was later rescheduled to 2019, then scrapped due to budgetary constraints. Cunanan attended the MFM in 2017 at his own expense, and mingled with foreign and local chefs.
The DOT has been positioning the Philippines as a major food or gastronomy tourism destination in Asia. It took its first crack at the promotion by securing franchise rights to Madrid Fusion, the popular gastronomy event in Spain, for Manila beginning 2015. (See, “Food! Glorious Food!,” in the BusinessMirror, October 31, 2019.)
