
# Woman, 91, leaves astonishing £1.3m in her will to the village she loved

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:33:49+00:00**

Author: **Kelly-Ann Mills, Sophie Corcoran, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/woman-91-leaves-astonishing-13m-20789379)

An OAP has left £1.3m to the village that she loved and is set to help thousands of people.
Audrey Mosey from Cottingham, East Yorkshire, died on January 6 last year at the age of 91.
A new fund named in her honour - the I Audrey Mosey Fund, also known as the I Am Fund, has now been launched to help performing arts groups, charities, schools and social enterprises in her area.
Audrey set out in her will that she wanted a large part of her estate to be used for good causes.
Pauline Lindop, executor of Audrey's estate and part-founder of the I Am Fund, said: "I was not surprised by Audrey's generosity in leaving such an incredible sum of money to be invested in good causes across the area, because that was her nature.
 
"It was a daunting challenge at first, knowing I was going to need to play a part in something so important, but also felt incredibly honoured and excited by the prospect."
Audrey had also left a number of donations to specific charities, including Dove House Hospice and the local branch of the RSPCA.
Ms Lindop and other members of the fund will now work with HEY Smile and Gosschalks Solicitors to run the charity.
Ms Lindop said: "I realised very quickly that it is a huge responsibility and something to which I am not extremely grateful to HEY Smile and to Paul Mounce from Gosschalks Solicitors for their guidance and expertise.
"They have guided and helped me to establish the fund and we have clear aims about how we can meet the needs of the community and, importantly, support those pursuing Audrey's own passions including dance, and for that I am extremely grateful."
Andrew Barber, chief executive of HEY Smile said: "Audrey's legacy will go on to help thousands of people for many years to come, improving the local community inspiring the talented and investing in those organisations who provide platforms for individuals and communities to shine.
"This is a hugely significant donation for HEY Smile and importantly for the community of Hull and East Yorkshire.
"Audrey and Pauline have entrusted us to ensure these funds have a lasting impact and that is not something that I or my trustees take lightly.
"We believe that these funds can unlock further potential, for example in the form of match funding from other partners or underwriting of potential larger projects to be established in the future.
"We hope that this gift is seen as a catalyst for greater local giving in the future."
