
# How to become a speed reading machine in 30 days

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: **TNW Deals**

Original: [The Next Web](https://thenextweb.com/offers/2019/11/01/how-to-become-a-speed-reading-machine-in-30-days/)

TLDR: The training in The Speed Reading Mastery Bundle promises to double or triple your reading speed for only $21.
Knowledge is the key to…well, everything.  The more you know, the better your chances to understand. And the more you understand, the better your odds of making the right choices personally, professionally and cosmically.  The likelihood of you leading the kind of life you want to live is directly tied to your grasp of information.
Want a six-figure job? Unless you can throw a baseball 100 mph or sing like a bird, that means you better read up, son. To know more, you’ve gotta read more. And with the training found in The Speed Reading Mastery Bundle ($21, over 90 percent off from TNW Deals), you’ll have the tools to read and process information as fast as you can take it in.
Over this six-course package, you’ll be introduced to the methods for boosting your reading speed, steps that can be drilled into place with just 15 to 20 minutes of practice a day. Ultimately, this training posits that you can double or even triple your reading speed in just 30 days.
Of course, reading speed is only part of the equation. The coursework also lays out critical cognitive and even neurologically-based tips for improving your memory techniques, helping you better retain details, learn new skills or speak other languages at an accelerated rate.
Armed with a mind finely honed by this training, you’ll be ready to study up and improve your shot at a promotion, new certifications, an entirely new career — or just at dazzling the family around the holiday table!
This instruction is available now for just $21, less than $4 per course.
