
# Arra on Alice: Even more beautiful in person than on screen

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:47:58+00:00**

Author: **Mario Bautista**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/entertainment/showbiz/arra-alice-even-more-beautiful-person-screen)

“It’s a guest role lang naman,” says Alice, who’s preparing for the premiere night of “Nuuk” this Monday evening. “I will play a famous celebrity named Angelina Cruz and they will get me to be an endorser.”
Juancho, who plays Sean in “Madrasta”, says he’s happy to be given the chance to work Alice. “Wala siya sa original cast when we started but we’re glad she has joined us now,” he says. “I remember her as Dyesebel and I’ve seen her in some soaps so I know magaling siyang artista. She’s really a welcome addition to ‘Madrasta’.”
Arra is also happy to have Alice taping with them. “Mas maganda pa pala siya sa personal kaysa on screen,” she says. “We are so thankful na nakasama namin siya sa eksena. Kahit special participation lamang siya, salamat at nagkaroon kami ng chance na makatrabaho siya.”
In the story, the clinic of Juancho and his mom, Gladys Reyes as Dr. Elizabeth Ledesma, that specializes on cosmetic surgery nearly goes bankrupt after Juancho’s unfaithful wife, Thea Tolentino as Katharine, deceived them and eloped with her boyfriend, Ahron Villena. They now want to revive their business with Alice, a top celebrity, as their endorser. “Madrasta” is now seen on GMA-7’s Afternoon Prime right after the hit drama series about tweens, “Prima Donnas”.
