
# Inspirational story of woman 'born in shame' who saved thousands of lives

Published at: **2019-11-03T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kirsten Jones**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/real-life-stories/inspirational-story-woman-born-shame-20751182)

In the last two years, Elizabeth Anionwu has released a bestselling memoir, been made a Dame by the Queen and received four honorary degrees for her incredible work in nursing.
She has dedicated her life to improving the lives of thousands in the black community who are suffering with sickle cell disease, all while battling racism as a mixed-race woman. 
In 1979, she became the first sickle cell and thalassaemia specialist in Britain, and in 2016 co-led a campaign for a statue of black nurse Mary Seacole – the Jamaican woman who treated British soldiers on the battlefield in the Crimean War – at St Thomas’ Hospital.
This year, Dame Elizabeth will be presented with the Pride Of Britain Lifetime Achievement Award for her incredible services to nursing.
 
‘It’s still quite difficult to believe, actually,’ she admits with surprise.
‘I was sitting down in my front room when I got the phone call and I did cry a little bit – I really was overwhelmed.'
'It was a shock, but a lovely one, of course.’
Dame Elizabeth will be one of many brave and inspirational guests to receive special recognition at the 20th anniversary of the Daily Mirror Pride Of Britain Awards.
At the star-studded event, held at Grosvenor House in London, Dame Elizabeth will meet Carol Vorderman and step up on stage to collect her award from a very famous face.
‘I have no idea who it’s going to be.'
'It’s sort of exciting, but a little bit scary as well,’ she confesses.
‘I always like a little bit of suspense – I’m taking a group of family and friends who are all over the moon, including my daughter [former Casualty star Azuka Oforka, who played Louise Tyler] and my 11-year-old granddaughter, who is bringing her autograph book.’
Family is a big part of Dame Elizabeth’s life, but, born out of wedlock to an Irish woman and a Nigerian man, her own upbringing was tarnished by racism, cruelty and abuse.
 
Soon after her birth in 1947, she was sent away to a Catholic children’s home run by nuns who were, at times, very unkind indeed.
‘When I wet the bed I had to stand on a chair and hold the wet sheet above my head.'
'A nun would whack me with a ruler if my arms got tired.'
'Even now, decades later, I still remember that cruel punishment.'
'I remember thinking, “That’s not very Christian”.’
Dame Elizabeth spent the first nine years of her life in care and her mother would travel to visit her when she could.
She’d often spend several weeks without contact, but between their chores, Dame Elizabeth and her friends had hobbies like Irish dancing and piano playing to keep them entertained.
‘If we did well, we were taken into the city centre of Birmingham to have a knickerbocker glory,’ she exclaims.
‘I do remember the nice things, as well as the nasty ones.'
'People ask me what helped me through my life.'
'It was the individual acts of kindness.'
'My mother made it very clear that I was not up for adoption, so I knew that one day she would come and take me home.’
At the tender age of four, young Dame Elizabeth met a kind nun who would inspire her career in nursing.
‘I had itchy, painful eczema , which the nuns would treat with coal tar paste and cover with bandages,’ she explains.
‘One nun would tear them off in a hurry and my skin would break and bleed.'
'I was overjoyed to see the nice nun – she would say words like “bottom”, I’d burst out laughing, and she’d gently take the dressing off – I never felt a thing.'
'Later on, I discovered she was something called a nurse and I decided that’s what I wanted to be.’
Aged nine, Dame Elizabeth was brought home by her mother, who had married an Englishman.
Sadly, her stepfather was teased by his peers about his daughter’s skin colour.
He became abusive towards her, and once again Dame Elizabeth was sent away.
At 16 she became a school nurse assistant and at 18 started her training in London, where she slowly began to gain some confidence and met some lifelong friends.
‘I have a photograph of all of us, wet behind the ears in 1965,’ she laughs.
‘It was the Swinging 60s and we didn’t know what the heck had hit us.'
'One pal, Janet, and I have been friends for almost 55 years and she’ll be with me at the awards'.
'She took me under her wing and didn’t seem scared of anything.'
'To me, she had lived.'
'She took me down to Leicester Ballroom, but I couldn’t dance, I was petrified.'
'She remembers just how shy I was.'
‘At the hospital there was the odd scary ward sister, but you were warned in advance.'
'I got on well with the patients and I loved to listen to them and have a good chatter when I could.’
In the early 70s, Dame Elizabeth became a health visitor in London and had her first encounter with sickle cell anaemia – a painful disease found mostly in African and Caribbean families – which at the time was often overlooked.
‘I’d never been taught anything about it and felt helpless in front of these families,’ she reveals.
‘They told me about the terrible pain, and I felt angry too.'
'I still have my textbook from 1966 and sickle cell isn’t even mentioned.’
After a brief stay in France, just after the political protests of 1968, Dame Elizabeth returned a bolder woman who was more aware of race inequalities in Britain and the NHS.
Families had no information about how to cope with their illness or the symptoms to look out for, so Dame Elizabeth took action, raising awareness of the Sickle Cell Society.
It’s then that she became the first sickle cell and thalassaemia specialist in Britain.
‘In the first few years, we saw 3,000 people in the centre, and for the first six years I was the only specialist nurse in the country.'
'We didn’t have the internet, of course, but my goodness people knew how to communicate.’
Dame Elizabeth has spent her life as a nurse and tutor, working with black and minority communities in London.
She has received a fellowship from the Royal College of Nursing and been named one of the 70 most influential nurses and midwives in the history of the NHS.
‘I called my memoir Mixed Blessings From A Cambridge Union, but if I’d known I’d become a Dame, I’d have called it “Born In Shame, But Became A Dame”.'
'What do you think?’ She laughs.
‘I see the joy my Damehood has brought to my family – people tell me how important it is to see someone like me achieve what I’ve achieved.'
'It gives them motivation and inspiration and it does make a difference.’
It’s been an incredible year for the respected nurse, and although her mum is no longer with us, Dame Elizabeth is sure she would be so proud of her Pride Of Britain Award.
‘My mother gave up an awful lot for her children.'
'Although I’m sad that she didn’t achieve what her intellectual abilities enabled her to, she was very happy in her own way, and she’d be delighted to know that I’m still in touch with all my half-siblings.'
‘I’m proud that the audience on the night will hear about sickle cell disease.'
'I’m so chuffed – that’s a word I like to use.'
'Everybody has a narrative and I think we should all consider sharing aspects of our lives.' 
'People want to hear it, so you do it.’
