
# 'He’s got a battle on his hands': could Uxbridge unseat Boris Johnson?

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:10:22+00:00**

Author: **Caroline Davies**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/03/hes-got-a-battle-on-his-hands-could-uxbridge-unseat-boris-johnson)


        Labour’s candidate Ali Milani, 25, hopes student vote and Heathrow ‘betrayal’ could deliver shock result
      
If the ancient wood-panelled walls of the Crown and Treaty in Uxbridge could talk, they would speak to the perils of crossing parliament.
In the heart of Boris Johnson’s west London constituency, this former manor house hosted talks over the ill-fated treaty of Uxbridge in 1645, an abortive attempt to end the first English civil war, which arose from a battle between parliament and the executive and ultimately led to Charles I losing his head.
Now the recently restored gastropub is about to bear witness to the consequences of another parliamentary fight: a general election with the possible prospect of a serving prime minister losing his seat.
“I think the youth vote will go against him and I think he’s got a battle on his hands,” said MaryJane Prendergast-Lister, 18, who works at the Crown and Treaty and will be a first-time voter.
She said the focus would be on Brexit. For those her age, “this is their first opportunity to have their say, though maybe there’s no point now,” she said, dressed up for Halloween on the day Johnson had pledged that the UK would leave the EU.
The pub’s deputy manager, Sophie Girard, 27, agreed. She is French, though she was born in the UK. She returned to the UK 12 years ago and now finds herself having to apply for residency, which she said was “absurd” and “something I didn’t think was necessary up until the result came in on [referendum] day”. Her British friends all voted remain. “They think the election will be all about Brexit, and so do I,” she said.
Taking on Johnson in Uxbridge and South Ruislip will be Labour’s Ali Milani, 25. He may not have Johnson’s recognition factor on Uxbridge high street, but on the campus of nearby Brunel University, his alma mater, he is well known. Mobilising the student vote is crucial if he is to topple Johnson, whose majority was halved in 2017 to just 5,034, now the smallest of any prime minister since 1924.
Johnson’s seat is on an internal CCHQ list as potentially at risk. There have been rumours he might relocate to a safer one.
Milani requires a swing of just over 5%. He is the antithesis of Johnson. An Iranian immigrant who moved to a Wembley council estate with his mother and sister when he was five, he studied politics at Brunel, where he was the student union president before becoming a vice-president of the National Union of Students. A practising Muslim, he attends Friday prayers on Brunel’s campus, and he pitches himself as the “local candidate”.
