
# Full transcript of Jurgen Klopp's five-minute statement on football's fixture problem

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:21:54+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/full-transcript-jurgen-klopps-five-20790208)

Jurgen Klopp has taken aim at football's ever-growing fixture schedule, with the Liverpool boss admitting his worry that the game's biggest stars are being pushed close to breaking point.
Klopp’s declaration comes after he warned the Reds could pull out of their Carabao Cup quarter-final showdown with Aston Villa in December.
After booking their last eight spot with a penalty shootout win over Arsenal - following a 5-5 thriller at Anfield - Klopp warned that unless the EFL can find a suitable date, then they will forfeit their spot in the next round.
That game appears unlikely to be played before the New Year, and on Friday, when asked whether there is a concern that current schedules are pushing the game's biggest names too far, Klopp launched into an impassioned five-minute response.
Here’s the German’s declaration in full…
“That's one part of our relationship which I don't like too much because I don't think that it's OK for you to ask the question, let me give the answer, then at the end watch what happens.
“You write the things and if I again make great headlines and I have a headline for a day and people will say 'Why is he moaning? He earns that much money, blah, blah, blah.’
“That's what I don't like. It's obvious. It's obvious that it's too much.
“Absolutely obvious, everybody involved in the game would tell you that and you know it as well.
“Then it's 'let's have a look at how they deal with it' so that's how it is.
“If you see the schedule which is coming up it's all OK.
“We have for example, the Premier League, what a competition, sensationally cool, blah, blah, blah.
“The Carabao Cup, nice competition obviously, what a wonderful game we had on Wednesday night, stuff like this.
“But then in January after a very busy schedule in December, they have two semi-finals.
“It's an easy decision for me to say 'if you want to keep that competition why do you have two semi-finals?'
“Then in February, March and April we have FA Cup games at the weekend.
“You can discuss that always, I've been here four years but before I knew about it people discussed it already and said 'that was really a problem, of course.’
“That's the difference to other countries. Italy have 20 teams as well and a cup competition but this is the only country where nobody wants to touch it.
“Maybe they want to touch it but the FA wants to touch the League Cup and the Football League wants to touch the FA Cup but nobody really has discussions about it.
“Then on top of that, UEFA decides to make a Nations League to give the players who are already pretty busy, very successful players, good players, a couple of more intense games.
“I said that before and it sounds like it's my problem and it's not at all my problem.
“I'm not involved in Nations League games, I don't play international games at all, I have a week off or a couple of days off, it's not my problem.
“I only discuss it from the same perspective like you should discuss it but you don't and that's how it is.
“You don't, you only report what I say and as long as it's like this and there's no pressure on anyone we have exactly the same situation.
"And we look at why the best players in the world cannot perform on the highest level for as long as we wish for or they get bad injuries and stuff like this.
“Then people say 'you need a bigger squad' but the game is not made for a bigger squads; we cannot make 40-player squads and then 20 of them you send on holiday until January and then say 'now you come in' and pay for all of them - it's just not possible, that's just not how it works.
“At the moment it’s an imbalance between the number of players you have in a squad, the competitions you have to play, and a big gap between the breaks the boys would usually need and [what] they get.
“If you are an international player and play all the big competitions in the world, then you have per year two weeks off. That’s a fact.
“Two weeks for the Manes', the Salahs', Hendersons', all these guys have two weeks off a year.
“In a physically demanding job with pressure as well - we cannot 'say this game is not important, or this game we don’t have to play really' - that’s the situation.
“The situation is clear, there would be a few solutions possible, but there was not one day that FIFA, UEFA, the Premier League, the Football League that they have sit at a table discuss and think about the players and not about their wallet.
“So that's the moment and we cannot change that, obviously.
“I can discuss it. It’s probably not even 50-50 what people think about what I say, it’s probably 40-60, 30-70, because we discuss it always on the back of the money we earn.
“That makes you not stronger, more resilient for a situation, it’s not like this.
“These are the games we have to play and we will play them with all we have, but somebody has to think about how many games it will be.”
