
# Hashim Amla joins Cape Town Blitz as batting consultant

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:41:55+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/hashim-amla-joins-cape-town-blitz-as-batting-consultant?utm_medium=rss)


        Hashim Amla is set to join Mzansi Super League (MSL) team Cape Town Blitz as their batting consultant during the upcoming season starting from November 8. This will be the first consultancy role taken up by 36-year-old Amla post his retirement from international cricket after the World Cup.
      
The second season of the MSL — also known as MSL 2.0 — is scheduled to be played between November 8 and December 16, featuring six teams. Cape Town Blitz — the runners-up in the inaugural edition of the MSL last season — will take on Jozi Stars — the defending champions — in the opening match on Friday. 
After his stint in the Abu Dhabi T10 league as player and captain of the Karnataka Tuskers, Amla will join the franchise based in Cape Town to impart his wealth of knowledge to the youngsters.
"Hashim has a wealth of experience and knowledge of the game and we're really looking forward to him bringing that to our management team. There are obviously a few very promising young batsmen in our squad, and I think they will benefit immensely from having him around. It's also an opportunity for him to explore whether a position such as batting consultant could be something that he might want to take up in future. I have no doubt that he'd do a great job at it if he did," Ashwell Prince, Cape Town Blitz’s coach said, reported Cricbuzz.
