
# The Latest: 4 horses scratched by vets at Breeders’ Cup

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/2/the-latest-4-horses-scratched-by-vets-at-breeders-/)

ARCADIA, Calif. (AP) - The Latest on the Breeders’ Cup at Santa Anita (all times local):
11:30 a.m.
Four horses have been scratched from Breeders’ Cup races Saturday after pre-race examinations by veterinarians.
Suedois is out of the $2 million Mile after developing a minor infection in his hoof. Fleeting was scratched from the $2 million Filly & Mare Turf. Both horses were found to be slightly lame.
Imperial Hint won’t run in the $2 million Sprint because of a blister in his left front hoof. Trainer Luis Carvajal Jr. says it’s unfortunate but he’ll respect the decision of the vets.
Bolo also was scratched from the Mile.
The scratches left jockey Javier Castellano without mounts in the Sprint and the Mile.
With Fleeting out, Ryan Moore switched to riding Just Wonderful in the Filly & Mare Turf.
The Breeders’ Cup added 20 vets during the two-day event to the 14 already on hand during the week to keep a closer eye on the horses’ health and safety.
11:15 a.m.
Dennis’ Moment was in good condition Saturday after stumbling badly at the start of the $2 million Juvenile a day earlier.
The colt finished last as the favorite in Friday’s race. He went to his knees under jockey Irad Ortiz Jr. coming out of the starting gate and wasn’t able to recover, trailing the field throughout the race.
Trainer Dale Romans says Dennis’ Moment came back healthy and is heading back to his barn in Kentucky, where he’ll be examined again.
Romans says he just wanted the colt to have a fair chance in the race that typically tabs the winner as the winter book favorite for next year’s Kentucky Derby. Storm the Court, a 45-1 shot, staged the biggest upset victory in Juvenile history.
10:55 a.m.
Workers touting benefits the horse racing industry brings to California are rallying outside Santa Anita ahead of the Breeders’ Cup.
Day 2 of the world championships is Saturday, with nine Cup races on the card culminating in the $6 million Classic airing in prime time on NBC.
Industry workers toted signs proclaiming their love of horses and urging support to protect their jobs outside two gates at the track in Arcadia, California. Passing cars honked in support. There was no sign of counter protesters who have urged the end of the sport in California after 36 horses died at Santa Anita since December.
Inside the track, four horses were scratched by veterinarians conducting pre-race exams.
There were no injuries during Friday’s 10-race card on Day 1 of the season-ending championships.
More AP sports: https://apnews.com/apf-Sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
