
# New statistics reveal Scotland is deadliest country for workers

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:00:04+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Stewart, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/stephen-stewart/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/new-statistics-reveal-scotland-deadliest-20817595)

Scotland has been revealed as one of the most dangerous places to work in the UK with an average of one death every two weeks, according to new figures.
Figures from the Health and Safety Executive have shown that Scotland is one of the deadliest parts of Britain with 231 workplace fatalities since 2009.
Jobs in construction and agriculture are among the most dangerous with a total of 1540 work-related deaths in the UK over the period.
GMB Scotland Senior Organiser Louise Gilmour said: “The scale of workplace fatalities in Scotland should be a source of shame for the UK Government. No one should go to work and not return home safe at the end of each day to their loved ones.
 
“This is the terrible price people are paying for nearly a decade of cuts by the Tories on the regulation of workplace health and safety; £100 million stripped from the budget of the HSE alone since 2010 tells a horrible story.
“And with the prospect of ruinous Boris Johnson led- Brexit a real possibility, fuelled by a deregulatory agenda, it only serves to strengthen the case for the Scottish Parliament to take full control of our employment and workplace safety laws.”
Scotland has been rocked recently by construction and agriculture deaths. On Friday October 25, farm worker Bryan Thomson, 25, died following an accident at Northhouse  Farm  near Hawick, Roxburghshire.
The victim was pronounced dead at the scene by medics. A spokesman for Police Scotland said initial enquiries had established there are no suspicious circumstances surrounding the death, which is being treated as an accident.
The shock news comes after a construction worker died while working on a major new extension of the mall at the St Enoch Centre in Glasgow in August. A 43-year-old man died after he suffered serious injuries on site at the shopping centre.
A joint Police Scotland and Health and Safety Executive investigation is underway. The worker is said to have died at the scene.
Jane Woodcock, head of Personal Injury at Hudgell Solicitors, said: “Our research shows a worrying lack of health and safety knowledge among the UK workforce, and it’s something that really needs to be addressed in order to prevent more fatal accidents in the future.
“A lot of the time, these types of accidents are a result of negligence and not following appropriate health and safety measures, and therefore can be completely avoided. We’d always advise employers to make sure their workers are fully up to speed with all health and safety policies, and even regularly test their employees to ensure workplace accidents and injuries are kept to a minimum.”
Since 2013, workers in construction jobs have suffered the highest number of injuries resulting in death at 195, crowning it the most dangerous industry in the UK.
Causes of death include falls, electrocution, explosions, drowning and asphyxiation.
A further 26,007 across the UK have suffered injuries such as fractures, amputations, serious burns and loss of consciousness.
