
# Liverpool are making this massive decision for controversial Aston Villa clash - reports

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/liverpool-making-massive-decision-controversial-17214615)

Liverpool are set to place under-23s manager Neil Critchley in charge of first-team affairs for the Carabao Cup quarter-final against Aston Villa, according to reports.
Boss Jurgen Klopp has a decision to make with the December 17th tie at Villa Park falling the day before his side will play in the Club World Cup in Qatar.
With less than 24 hours between the games, it will be difficult for Klopp to attend both with the manager likely to already be in Doha when the Villa clash kicks off.
The 52-year-old will make a final decision on where he will be when Liverpool submit their squad for the Club World Cup at the start of December.
But the Daily Mail reports that Critchley – who has never held down a senior management role before – is most likely to be leading the visitors from the dugout.
 
They report that Klopp is minded to fly to Qatar early to oversee training and although his assistant Pep Ljinders is next in line to take charge against Villa, the German will want him at his side in the Middle East.
Klopp was asked about the situation in his press conference after Liverpool’s narrow Champions League victory over Genk on Tuesday evening and quipped: "Can we ask Aston Villa to come to Qatar and we play the game over there?".
 
He then went on to criticise the amount of matches clubs in England play, pointing to the semi-finals of the Carabao Cup which is played over two legs.
"We respect the competitions but I don't like the two-legged semis in the Carabao Cup,” said the Anfield boss.
“The Club World Cup you only play if you win the Champions League and that doesn't happen often in your life. We can't carry on like this. We need to find a solution."
