
# Is George Urquhart The Godfather Of Single Malt Scotch Whisky

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Joseph V Micallef**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joemicallef/2019/11/03/is-george-urquhart-the-godfather-of-single-malt-scotch-whisky/)

Legendary Scotch whisky creator Gordon & MacPhail has released a single malt to honor George Urquhart, member of the second generation of the company’s owning family, in what would have been his centenary year. Long a pillar of the Scotch whisky community, George Urquhart is considered by many whisky historians to have created what would become the single malt Scotch whisky market.
Laid down in 1956, the year ‘Mr George’ as he was known by colleagues, became senior partner, the 62-year-old single malt features spirit from one of his favorite distilleries—Glen Grant. It is a distillery that has long been associated with the firm Gordon & MacPhail and whose liquids have produced some of the firm’s greatest whiskies.
Renowned whisky writer Charles MacLean remarked:
Joining the business in 1933, George Urquhart began his career working alongside his father, John, who had become sole owner of the company in 1915, after John Alexander MacPhail’s retirement and James Gordon’s passing.
‘
Mr George’ went on to develop an unparalleled understanding of Scotch whisky, especially the unique interaction that occurs over time between spirit and cask. He was instrumental to the success of single malt, championing it at a time when the whisky industry was focused on blends and major beverage companies were indifferent to promoting single malts. In 1968, he created the Connoisseurs Choice range giving little-known distilleries a platform to have their whisky enjoyed in its simplest form, as aged single malt.
Over many decades George Urquhart forged new relationships with many of Scotland’s distillers, and became arguably the world’s foremost expert in how to combine oak, spirit and time to create single malt whiskies.
His philosophy, legacy and his expertise handed down from generation-to-generation lives on today as Gordon & MacPhail continues to create a range of unique depth and breadth of rare single malt Scotch whiskies found nowhere else in the world. Many of the casks laid down by George Urquhart have gone on the become some of the oldest whiskies ever bottled.
Released as a fitting tribute to this legacy, the Mr George Centenary Edition 1956 from Glen Grant Distillery has been selected for bottling by George Urquhart’s grandson, Stuart, Operations Director at Gordon & MacPhail.
Laid down by Mr George Urquhart himself in a hand-selected first fill sherry butt on 13 December 1956, the expression also pays tribute to Speyside, where Mr George spent many years building long-standing, enduring relationships with the region’s distilleries.
The commemorative whisky is presented in an exquisite glass decanter and a wooden presentation case. The red and white design is a modern interpretation of the original Connoisseurs Choice bottles from 1968.
Today, Mr George’s legacy is built upon by his family, including his grandson Stephen Rankin, Gordon & MacPhail’s Director of Prestige.
Added Stephen:
Commenting on Mr George’s legacy and impact, Charles Maclean added:
Only 235 bottles of Gordon & MacPhail Mr George Centenary Edition 1956 from Glen Grant Distillery will be available for purchase from selected specialist whisky retailers internationally for £5000* [UK RRP].
For more information, visit www.gordonandmacphail.com
Tasting notes
Gordon & MacPhail, Mr George Centenary Edition from Glen Grant Distillery, 62 YO, ABV 51.7%. Distilled on December 13, 1956, bottled on June 27, 2019. First fill sherry butt, #4455, 235 bottles released.
On the nose, there is an intense sherry aroma, giving way to cooked dates, along with hints of caramelized brown sugar. On the palate, the whisky has a distinctive sweetness featuring dried fruits including raisin, fig and date, along with notes of rich dark chocolate, almond praline and distinctive notes of citrus zest. The finish is long, featuring notes of sweet dried fruit, along with lingering hints of charred oak and subtle nuances of smoke.
Since its founding, Gordon & MacPhail’s carefully matched casks to spirit have been sent to distilleries throughout Scotland, filled with new-make spirit, and matured either at the distillery of origin or in the firm’s own bonded warehouse in Elgin. It is this simple but endlessly complex pairing that creates an intriguing and unique portfolio of expressions—single malts that Scotch whisky lovers will not find anywhere else. The Mr George Centenary Edition is a fitting addition to the firm’s exemplary offerings and an important addition to the liquid history of Scotch.
