
# Delhi’s Air Pollution Is So Bad That It Is An Emergency

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bruce Y. Lee**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brucelee/2019/11/03/delhis-air-pollution-is-so-bad-that-it-is-an-emergency/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

This is not just the Hazy Shade of Winter in Delhi, India. It is far worse. It is air pollution, and it’s reached hazardous levels. Take a look at some of the tweets and accompanying photos from India’s capital city:
And what about this view, or rather a lack of a view:
This tweet mentioned an air quality index (AQI) of over 1000:
That would mean the air quality is way above the hazardous threshold according to the following scale provided by the Air Now U.S. government website:
The AQI may not really be over 1000 in Delhi. It’s just that the air quality is so bad that it may be exceeding the ability of many meters to read the levels per this tweet:
In this tweet, Australia’s ABC News South Asia Correspondent Siobhan Heanue compared the Delhi AQI levels with those of other major cities:
As seen above and this next tweet, the pollution has already been having health effects:
So what should people do about the pollution? Well,Dr. Harsh Vardhan, the Government of India's Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare, Science & Technology, Earth Sciences had some advice to combat the pollution but not everyone was buying this Harsh advice:
Eh, what’s up doc? Even if you eat more carrots than Bugs Bunny until you turn orange, it’s not going to protect you against bad air pollution. No amount of healthy food or vitamins is going to do so.
Neither is starting your day with music as recommended by Prakash Javadekar, the Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change:
You can play the song “mmmbop,” “Hit Me Baby One More Time,” or whatever happens to be your favorite tune as many times as you want on the sitar, but it’s not going to make you immune to air pollution.
The only real way to minimize the health effects of such bad pollution is to stay indoors as much as possible. Most paper masks would be essentially useless and simply muffle your words when you say, “the air smells terrible,” or “I can’t breathe.” Keep in mind that just because you don’t smell anything funny doesn’t mean that there isn’t air pollution. A specialized N95 respirator mask can filter out a lot of larger particles in the air but won’t keep out many gases and very fine particulate matter. Plus, the mask has to form a tight seal with your face, which means that it is not the most comfortable thing to wear. A beard or gigantic mutton chops could prevent such a seal. Anyone with breathing difficulties or anxiety may not want to wear such a mask. Also, the mask won’t protect your eyes and skin. You could try wearing a full body suit like Black Manta in the movie Aquaman but then you would have to battle Aquaman and Mera.
The situation in Delhi shows that you can’t wait until air pollution has reached hazardous levels to do something about it. It’s not as if a gigantic vacuum cleaner can suck away all the bad air. Air pollution can have many serious health effects both short-term (including irritating the respiratory tract, eyes, and other mucous membranes and causing exacerbation of chronic conditions such as lung and cardiovascular diseases) and long term (including lung disease and cancer). If everyone around the world doesn’t take air pollution more seriously and start doing much more about reducing the causes of air pollution, the music that you play in the morning may be “The Final Countdown.”
