
# Heartbreaking reaction of murdered Girl Scout Jodie Chesney's devastated family

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:18:20+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/heartbreaking-reaction-murdered-girl-scout-20834696)

Touching photos of Jodie Chesney as a child have been released after two teenagers were found guilty of murdering her.
Her grieving dad say her death in March has 'destroyed his life' as the family attempt to come to turns with a life without the joy-filled Girl Scout.
The 17-year-old was stabbed to death by two drug dealers in Harold Hill in east London. She had simply been sat with friends when she was killed.
Svenson Ong-a-Kwie, 19, and a 17-year-old boy who cannot be named for legal reasons were today convicted at the Old Bailey of murdering the popular teenager.
Pictures released after the verdict show a beaming Jodie with her dad Peter and also another in a gold dress at her prom.
Jodie’s father Peter Chesney said: “The murder of my beloved daughter has destroyed my life and the full extent as to how this has affected my family and me cannot possibly be explained simply in words.
 
“I have no idea how I am going to continue with my life or even come to terms with the loss.”
Jodie’s sister Lucy said: “I am only 20 years old and already I am dreading my life rather than looking forward to it.
"Jodie was not only my sister she was my best friend.
"Losing her is like losing half of myself. We went through everything together and she was always there for me and always putting everyone before herself. She gave me a type of love I will never feel again.
“I am anxious about everything: leaving the house, staying in the house, meeting people.
"If someone as good and pure as Jodie could be murdered, it could happen to anyone and I spend everywhere I go looking over my shoulder because of it.
“Jodie will be greatly missed and the people who caused such tragedy to a whole family should hang their head in shame. You have ripped away a bright future that was destined to make a change to many lives."
Detective Chief Inspector Dave Whellams said: “I would like to pay tribute to Jodie, who was clearly a wonderful and joyful young woman with so much to offer the world. The testimonies to her character and kindness have been a source of sadness as well as a celebration of a life that touched so many.
“This is among the saddest cases I have led and I can only hope that today’s verdict has provided a modest sense of justice for her family and friends.
“This is a case which has affected not only those in the local area, but throughout London and nationally. The death of any young person by knife violence is a terrible event, and we must all work together to stop this from ruining the lives of more young people.
“Jodie was not in the wrong place at the wrong time, she was simply living her life as a teenager should - carefree and with her friends.
“It is Ong-a-Kwie and his 17-year-old co-defendant who made the decision to take that from her and have devastated the lives of so many people who loved her."
The defendants were said to have come from broken homes and turned to drug dealing as a way of making "easy money".
Prosecutor Crispin Aylett QC had told jurors they took a "casual approach to violence" in a world where knife crime was "routine".
The court had heard how Ong-a-Kwie had been knifed in the thigh six months before and was on the lookout for his assailants on the day of the murder.
Chilling CCTV captured the shadowy figures of Ong-a-Kwie and the 17-year-old disappearing into the park before the sounds of Jodie screaming could be heard.
Giving evidence, Jodie's boyfriend Eddie Coyle, 18, told how she collapsed in his arms in front of their horrified friends.
He said he thought the taller of the two assailants - said to be 6ft 2in Ong-a-Kwie - was about to punch Jodie when he "swung his arm out" and stabbed her.
Mr Coyle said: "She was in shock at first. She started screaming continuously, very loud, about two minutes straight. After she stopped screaming she began to faint."
Jodie died before she arrived at hospital from a 18cm deep stab wound to the back which almost passed right through her body.
