
# Intern clinical officers launch nationwide strike over unsettled May-Oct pay

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:46:43+00:00**

Author: **Maya Aluel**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/intern-clinical-officers-launch-nationwide-strike-over-unsettled-may-oct-pay/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 1 – Intern clinical officers enlisted by the Ministry of Health in May launched a nationwide strike on Friday over what the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers (KUCO) termed as non-payment of salaries.
      
KUCO Chairperson Alexander Muigai said Sh2.9 billion was allocated for payment of the interns and Sh1.2 billion for Universal Health Care for all clinical officers which the Ministry of Health has failed to honor.
ADVERTISEMENT
“During our budget we allocated Sh2.9 billion and another one to cover universal health care 1.2 billon to pay the CO interns, we were posted on April 29  and others were posted on May 2nd ,since that time we have not been paid our money, now we have been working for six months without pay,” Muigai indicated.
The intern clinical officers are due to complete their year-long internship program in May 2020.
They are now blaming the Ministry of Health for failing to approve the budget, hence subjecting them to extreme suffering.
KUCO declined an invitation to negotiate with the Ministry of Health in September demanding an enhanced remuneration package they said was rightfully their having fought for a the same for the past four years.
“Money has been allocated but we can’t get it, Permanent Secretary has been signing the release of cash all the time, yet youth empowerment program got signed. We have to do other hustles like rent, transport and basic shelter; we are unable to go on,” Wekesa Masasabi, an intern said.
They vowed to continue protesting until the Ministry of Health addresses their demands.
Post Views: 227
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
