
# ISL 2019-20 | Playing Jamshedpur away from home is difficult, admits Gurpreet Singh Sandhu

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:00:31+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/05/isl-2019-20-playing-jamshedpur-away-from-home-is-difficult-admits-gurpreet-singh-sandhu?utm_medium=rss)


        Champions Bengaluru FC’s goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu has admitted that playing against Jamshedpur away from home was difficult after Bengaluru's third consecutive draw in the ISL this season on Sunday. However, the Bengaluru custodian was hopeful for a quick turnaround in the future.
      
India's number one goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu has shed light on the difficulty of playing Jamshedpur FC away from home. On Sunday, Bengaluru were held to a goalless draw by top-placed Jamshedpur FC at the JRD Tata Sports Complex. However, the Bengaluru custodian also believes that the clean sheet was important for the team.
“I think it was a difficult game away from home. Jamshedpur had won two games in a row, had six points on the table. Coming here and trying to get a result, it’s difficult. They are a quality side. Unfortunately, we couldn’t score. We got enough chances to score," said Gurpreet Singh Sandhu during the post-match interview, ISL website reported.
"It’s not that we didn’t, but I’m very hopeful of the team and hopefully, we will score in the future, in the next games coming. But it’s very, very important to come away with a clean sheet which is very crucial when you are playing away from home because it will help a further down in the season,” he added. 
Bengaluru FC had the upper hand in creating chances and taking shots at goal, yet they could not find the back of the net. The stalemate with Jamshedpur means that Bengaluru has only scored one goal from three games this season, courtesy Udantha Singh. However, Gurpreet was hopeful for a better show soon.
“I think it can be frustrating, but the most important thing is if we are creating chances or not. That’s the question. And we are creating chances. It’s a matter of time before we find the back of the net. So, I’m very hopeful. It’s a long season. We’ve just played three games, two away games and one at home. If you ask me, playing good sides at their home is always difficult and not losing a game is very, very crucial,” he said.
Gurpreet also hailed the facilities and atmosphere at the JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur, popularly known as the Furnace. “ Incredible! I’m very, very impressed with the setup of the club. I feel like these guys are the torch-bearers because this is a club which has their own stadium, their own facilities, which is an example for all the other clubs. And I’m very happy that I came to Jamshedpur and the fans were incredible throughout the game," he concluded.
