
# Fiancee of Clutha helicopter pilot says crash inquiry ‘does no justice to memories of victims’

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:44:13+00:00**

Author: **Tim McNulty**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/fiancee-clutha-helicopter-pilot-says-20810818)

The fiancee of the Clutha helicopter pilot has broken her silence after an inquiry found pilot error was to blame for the fatal crash.
Dr Lucy Thomas claimed the inquiry into the incident which killed ten people does no justice to the memories of the victims.
Her fiancee David Traill was one of three crew members killed when the Police Scotland chopper fell onto the roof of the Clutha bar on November 29, 2013.
The Clutha Fatal Accident Inquiry found the incident was down to David Traill's failure to ensure at least one of the fuel transfer pumps were switched on.
In a statement Dr Thomas said: “In my opinion, the sheriff principal’s determination does no justice to the memories of Gary Arthur, Tony Collins, Joe Cusker, Colin Gibson, Robert Jenkins, John McGarrigle, Samuel McGhee, Kirsty Nelis, Mark O’Prey, and to the memory and reputation of Dave Traill.
“It insults the intelligence of those who know of the evidence presented at the inquiry and are aware of the content of the initial AAIB report .
“Disbelief has been expressed by many family members of those who died and by members of the public at the conclusion drawn by Sheriff Principal Turnbull, who incredulously stated that Dave consciously took risks which caused the accident.
“This expression of disbelief speaks volumes and means much more to me than the opinion of the sheriff principal.
“I find it distressing and incomprehensible that given months, not moments, to consider the facts, the sheriff principal has come to this conclusion.”
She added: “He chose not to concentrate on the fact that the EC135 model of helicopter has a history of faults with the caution advisory display, specifically a history of erroneous or spurious fuel indications, amongst other technical problems such as contamination of the fuel tanks, issues still never fully resolved by the manufacturer.
“Instead, the sheriff principal has opted to sully the distinguished reputation of a pilot with an exemplary record who was renowned for his sense of responsibility and his regard for the safety of his crew.
“The opportunity for closure and maybe some peace for so many people has been denied.”
