
# AUS vs PAK | Nice to have role-specific side together, asserts Alex Carey

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:54:35+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/aus-vs-pak-nice-to-have-role-specific-side-together-asserts-alex-carey?utm_medium=rss)


        Australian wicketkeeper and vice-captain Alex Carey is stoked for his team that has been composed together as a role-specific side, especially with the bowlers enjoying the best phase. From Mitchell Starc to Kane Richardson, Carey has praised how these bowlers have lived up to their specific roles.
      
With a full-strength bowling attack, Australia are enjoying their best run in the T20 International format and steamrolling over their oppositions with ease. In the era of Mitchell Starc and Pat Cummins, Australia has been doing wonders with the ball against Sri Lanka and Pakistan and have brought in wins in four consecutive games, something they hadn’t achieved since the 2009-10 season. 
In this light, Alex Carey has heavily praised this organised team that has specified roles for everyone. While Starc has been fantastic with the new ball, Kane Richardson has been fluent across the new ball and the death overs. Meanwhile, Pat Cummins provides the advantage of having him bowl at any point throughout the game. 
"It's nice to have Mitchell Starc running in with the new ball and then at the death with the spinners through the middle," vice-captain Alex Carey said.
"Kane Richardson has been fantastic with the new ball and at the death again. And Pat Cummins, wherever you need him. It's a really well-balanced squad at the moment. It's nice to have a very role-specific side together. Players are feeling really confident in their roles and executing their roles," he added.
The first T20I against Pakistan ended in a 'no result' and the 2nd fixture is scheduled to be played on Tuesday at the Manuka Oval.
