
# Joey Barton pleads not guilty to assaulting former Barnsley manager Daniel Stendel

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:17:23+00:00**

Author: **Dave Higgens**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/joey-barton-pleads-not-guilty-20823164)

Fleetwood Town manager Joey Barton will go on trial next year accused of assaulting former Barnsley manager Daniel Stendel during an incident following a league match.
Barton, 37, is alleged to have pushed the German boss at Barnsley's Oakwell Stadium on April 13 this year, leaving him with a damaged tooth.
The former England international pleaded not guilty to a charge of assault occasioning actual bodily harm when he appeared at Sheffield Crown Court on Wednesday.
A provisional trial date was fixed for June 1 2020.
Barton, of Fox Bank Close, in Widnes, Cheshire, stood in the glass-fronted dock, flanked by a security officer, for the 15-minute appearance.
He spoke to confirm his name and date of birth, that he is a UK national, and that he understood various matters outlined by the judge.
Wearing a dark blue jacket over an open-necked light blue shirt and sporting glasses, he also spoke to enter his not guilty plea to the single charge.
The former Manchester City , Newcastle United and Burnley midfielder was charged following an incident in the tunnel after the League One match between Barnsley and Fleetwood, which ended in a 4-2 victory for the home team.
Barton was given unconditional bail by Judge Jeremy Richardson QC.
