
# What’s going on Thursday?

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **BrooklynVegan Staff**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/whats-going-on-thursday-187/)

You can browse our full NYC show calendar for all of tonight’s shows, but here are some highlights…
King Diamond, Uncle Acid and The Deadbeats, Idle Hands @ Kings TheatreHeavy metal legends Mercyful Fate are reuniting in 2020, but first frontman King Diamond is in the midst of his own tour, which also prefaces the 2020 release of his new album The Institute. He’s been playing his new song “Masquerade of Madness,” along with plenty of classics, and he’s got two great opening bands lined up too.
Superchunk (performing Foolish acoustic), Torres @ Murmrr TheatreSuperchunk recently celebrated the 25th anniversary of their 1994 album Foolish with a new guest-filled acoustic version of the album, and now they’re on tour performing the album acoustically. The show has great support from Torres, who just announced her first album for Superchunk’s Merge Records and who will be performing solo.
The New Pornographers, Lady Lamb @ Brooklyn SteelIndie lifers The New Pornographers are on the road supporting their very solid new album In The Morse Code Of Brake Lights, and they’re joined by Lady Lamb, who’s supporting her own very solid new album, Even In The Tremor.
Sudan Archives @ Public RecordsGenre-defying violinist/singer/songwriter/producer followed a string of promising EPs and singles with her first full-length album, the very good Athena, on Stones Throw last week, and she celebrates at this intimate, sold-out release show. She’ll play a larger NYC show at Bowery Ballroom in 2020.
Talib Kweli w/ live band ft. special guests @ Blue Note (two shows)Having just made a surprise appearance at Robert Glasper’s Blue Note residency last month, Brooklyn rap icon Talib Kweli returns to the venue for a run of full-band shows with special guests. He’s doing two shows a night through Sunday (11/10).
The World is a Beautiful Place & I am No Longer Afraid To Die, Harmony Woods, Teenage Halloween @ Asbury Park BreweryIndie/emo/post-rock/etc collective The World Is A Beautiful Place & I Am No Longer Afraid To Die haven’t released new music in two years, but they just put out a compilation of odds and ends and they’re now on tour. Their unpredictable live show is always worth catching, and this tour should be no different. They’re hitting Asbury Park tonight, Brooklyn on Friday, and Long Island on Sunday.
Dylan LeBlanc, Night Moves @ Bowery BallroomAmericana artist Dylan LeBlanc went in a more lively rock direction than usual on this year’s Dave Cobb-produced Renegade, and he’ll add even more life to those songs on stage tonight. Likeminded band Night Moves open.
Red City Radio, Hot Knife, Lost In Society, Jose Prieto @ Saint VitusIn between opening dates for Taking Back Sunday and Hot Water Music (separately), Oklahoma punks Red City Radio play a headlining Brooklyn gig tonight.
Drew Citron, Cyrus Gengras, Lope, Dark Tea @ Union PoolBeverly’s Drew Citron plays a solo gig at Union Pool tonight, and it’s also a chance to catch Dark Tea, the psychedelic folk-pop project of Rips’ Gary Canino.
David Byrne’s American Utopia @ Hudson TheatreDavid Byrne has retooled his acclaimed “untethered” 2018 for the Broadway stage and while the setlist and arrangements are much like what they were on his tour, songs are now threaded together with new monologues from Byrne, making for a much more theatrical experience.
For all of tonight’s shows, and tomorrow’s, check out our NYC concert calendar.
—

        STAY IN TOUCH
      
Find BrooklynVegan on FACEBOOK and TWITTER and INSTAGRAM and YOUTUBE and SPOTIFY and SNAPCHAT.
For even more NYC show info, follow @BVNYCshows on Twitter.
Join our EMAIL LIST.
For even more metal, visit Invisible Oranges and follow them on Facebook & Twitter.
What else?
