
# Drug dealer arrested at Birmingham Airport jailed over £50k heroin find

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:48:27+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Balloo, https://www.facebook.com/MissBalloo/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/drug-dealer-arrested-birmingham-airport-17211093?utm_source=Facebook&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=BL_Facebook_Posts)

A drug dealer arrested shortly after stepping off a flight at Birmingham Airport has been jailed after police found almost £50,000-worth of heroin in a car.
Zaoheb Iqbal, from Coventry, had just returned from Pakistan when police made the arrest.
The 33-year-old was first spotted running from Springfield Road, Foleshill in December last year, where officers stopped a Peugeot 307.
The car was found to contain a huge stash of heroin with an estimated street value of £48,000.
The occupants of the car were arrested and charged, but police say officers were set on convicting Iqbal.
Iqbal was arrested, but officers had to release him when a search found he had nothing on him.
But officers then retraced his steps and found a set of keys to a parked car he had been standing next to.
A search then uncovered over £18,000 in cash and two mobile phones in the footwell.
One of the phones was linked to Iqbal and contained records of calls to the driver of the Peugeot.
Further calls linked him to a drugs seizure with a street value of over £50,000 in Villa Road the month before.
Iqbal, from Ransom Road, was arrested at the airport after returning from Pakistan and pleaded guilty at the start of his trial at Birmingham Crown Court on October 28.
He has now been jailed for a total of nine years for conspiracy to supply class A and class B drugs.
