
# Bulacan cops gun down 2 armed dealers, jail 6 others

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:14:41+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/provincial/bulacan-cops-gun-down-2-armed-dealers-jail-6-others)

Bulacan Police Provincial Office director, Colonel Chito Bersaluna, identified the slain suspects as Archie Alfaro and one alias ‘Erick.’ He said that Alfaro’s name is included in the watch list of the Philippine National Police and the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency prior to the shootout.
The official said that the two were killed following a buy-bust operation which went awry in Sitio Pakulis, Barangay Gaya-Gaya when the duo sensed they were dealing with an undercover agent.
San Jose del Monte City Police Station commander, Lieutenant Col. Orlando Castil Jr. said that the two have just conspired to sell shabu to a poseur around 1:20 a.m. Thursday when they became suspicious and pulled out their concealed weapons and tried to shoot the agent but missed.
Back-up operatives went after the suspects after they escaped on board a motorcycle until they managed to shoot the two. Recovered from the possession of the slain suspects were one caliber .38 revolver, a home-made cal. .45 pistol, several live ammunition, 15 heat-sealed plastic sachets containing suspected shabu and a red Honda motorbike without plate number.
Five of the six arrested suspects were identified as Arman Joson, 49; Christopher Martinez, 34; Miguel Ygey, 42; Adrian Guese, 34; and Michael Bracamonte. The 6th is an 18-year old male.
