
# IND vs BAN | Over 9000 tickets sold for pink ball Test

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:23:40+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/ind-vs-ban-over-9000-tickets-sold-for-pink-ball-test?utm_medium=rss)


        About 9,400 tickets have already been sold till the fourth day of the pink-ball Test between India and Bangladesh which begins on November 22 at the Eden Gardens. This promises large number of crowds to be present to witness history as India and Bangladesh will both play their first ever D/N Test.
      
The Eden Gardens in Kolkata is one of the biggest grounds in India and always promises huge crowds and naturally, the pink-ball revolution has been well received by the fans as the demand for tickets is increasing with every passing day. 
“Thirty percent of the online saleable tickets for the first three days (5,905 tickets) has been sold out, while over 3,500 tickets for the fourth day of the second Test have been sold,” Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) secretary Avishek Dalmiya told Sportstar.
This response from people has delighted the CAB and BCCI officials as Test Cricket in India often had empty stands before but the excitement of the D/N Test has ensured that this time around that will not be the case. The D/N Test promises to be a pleasant viewing experience for the crowds and the CAb will make it even more memorable by felicitating some of the cancer survivors.
“With the help of Global Cancer Trust, around 20 breast cancer survivors will be invited on the first day of the match. They will be greeted by the CAB. Cancer patients will have a chance to play (fun cricket) at the Eden Gardens on the third day,” Dalmiya added.
The CAB will also make special arrangements in case of medical emergencies like two ICU equipped ambulances, critical care assistance, nurses and medicine from the Woodlands hospital.
There will be many other felicitations like five gold coins specially minted for the occasion will be handed to the VVIPs as mementoes and hoardings around the city of Kolkata will be put up and video clips will be played in the movie halls to promote a new chapter in the history of Indian Cricket.
