
# Mike Tyson to train Francis Ngannou for potential Tyson Fury fight

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:33:01+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/mike-tyson-train-francis-ngannou-20829319)

Francis Ngannou claims he will be trained by Mike Tyson for a potential boxing fight against Tyson Fury .
The UFC heavyweight met Tyson to record an episode of the former world champion's podcast.
The ring legend later posted a video of him demonstrating body punches on Ngannou.
And the Cameroonian then tweeted: "Spoke with Mike Tyson and he agreed to train me for when I fight Tyson Fury in the ring.
"Don't be scared Fury, you called me out and now you'll have to live with it."
Ngannou looked destined to be the next UFC heavyweight champion but was beaten by Stipe Miocic last year.
He then lost to Derrick Lewis before rebounding with three victories in succession against Curtis Blaydes, Cain Velasquez and Junior Dos Santos.
And Fury said recently: "Who's the heavyweight champion of the world in the UFC? The American-Croatian, Stipe Miocic, I'll fight him in a heartbeat, no problem.
"Or, Francis Ngannou, any of the heavyweights they've got.
"I'm not afraid of any of them, I'm the Gypsy King; I'm a boxer but I'm one bad ass motherf*****."
Fury recently defeated Braun Strowman in an appearance in the WWE in Saudi Arabia and is due to rematch Deontay Wilder on February 22.
He claimed last month that he has also spoken to Conor McGregor about training together for a move into mixed martial arts.
"You might see Tyson Fury have his MMA debut this year. It's different but, like I say, Tyson Fury [is] taking over," he said.
"Yeah, I've been speaking to Conor [McGregor] about it and he's willing to train me and it's going to be good.
"I come from a long line of bare knuckle boxing champions and getting hurt, getting bloodied.
"You saw in my last fight that there was blood everywhere, it's nothing new to me. It's all a part of my heritage. I would love to get in there and smash someone up.
"He [McGregor] just said 'any time you're ready, let's go. Come over to Dublin and we'll start training'. I can't wait. I'm going to take him up on the offer.
"We might be on a double header - The Gypsy King and Conor McGregor. Watch this space."
UFC president Dana White, meanwhile, has his own plans for Ngannou in 2020.
"It will be an exciting year for Francis, too," he told TMZ. "There are only big fights for him, and a potential title fight, but France, we finally got France done.
"We've been working hard to get that place open for MMA and we'll do a fight there, and obviously Francis will probably headline."
