
# Maggie Smith up for fifth Evening Standard best actress award

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:00:26+00:00**

Author: **Mark Brown**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/stage/2019/nov/04/maggie-smith-up-for-fifth-evening-standard-best-actress-award)


        Actor has chance to add to her record tally after returning to stage following 12-year absence
      
Dame Maggie Smith’s return to the stage after a 12-year absence has put her in contention for her fifth best actress win in the UK’s longest-running theatre awards.
Smith already has more best actress Evening Standard theatre awards than anyone else, with the first won in 1962 for a double bill of Peter Shaffer plays, The Private Ear and The Public Eye, in which she co-starred with Kenneth Williams.
Fifty-seven years later, Smith has been shortlisted for her portrayal of Joseph Goebbels’ personal secretary Brunhilde Pomsel in A German Life, written by Christopher Hampton and based on an Austrian documentary made when Pomsel was 102.
The five-week run at the Bridge theatre in London was Smith’s first stage appearance since 2007, when she starred in Edward Albee’s The Lady from Dubuque.
The Guardian’s Michael Billington said Smith’s return was a “triumph”, playing the role with “just the right verbal hesitancy and moral evasiveness”.
Smith, 84, has received nine Evening Standard theatre awards in total, with the other best actress prizes won for Hedda Gabler in 1970, The Way of the World in 1984 and Three Tall Women in 1994.
She will compete for this year’s prize – named in honour of Natasha Richardson – with Hayley Atwell for Rosmersholm; Anjana Vasan for A Doll’s House; Juliet Stevenson for The Doctor; and Cecilia Noble for two new plays at the National Theatre, Faith, Hope and Charity, and Downstate.
Downstate, set in a home where four men convicted of sexual crimes against minors live, was a play by Bruce Norris that raised uncomfortable questions around how we live with child abusers.
Two of Noble’s co-stars from the play, K Todd Freeman and Francis Guinan, are also nominated for best actor. They are up against Wendell Pierce for Death of a Salesman, Tom Hiddleston for Betrayal and Andrew Scott for Present Laughter.
Downstate is also nominated in the best new play category, up against Sweat by Lynn Nottage, which began at the Donmar, ear for eye by debbie tucker green, and Glass. Kill. Bluebeard. Imp by Caryl Churchill, both productions at the Royal Court.
Anne-Marie Duff, who made her musical debut this year in Sweet Charity at the Donmar, has been nominated for best musical performance. She is joined by Andy Nyman for Fiddler on the Roof and Sheridan Smith for Joseph and the Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat.
The Evening Standard theatre awards are not the UK’s most prestigious but, in their 65th year, are the longest running and an important part of the UK stage ecology.
One of the most prestigious prizes is for most promising playwright, named in honour of the late Standard editor Charles Wintour. The nominees this year are Zoe Cooper for Out of Water at Orange Tree Theatre, Yasmin Joseph for J’Ouvert at Theatre503, Jasmine Lee-Jones for Seven Methods of Killing Kylie Jenner at the Royal Court, and Ross Willis for Wolfie at Theatre503.
The winners will be announced at a ceremony presented by the actor Cush Jumbo at the London Coliseum on 24 November.
