
# Control4 Adds Slick Neeo Remote To Its Smart Home Setup

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Lamkin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paullamkin/2019/11/05/control-4-adds-slick-neeo-remote-to-its-smart-home-setup/)

The Neeo Remote for Control4 has gone live, offering Control4 users a much slicker way of controlling their home entertainment and connected devices.For $600, Control4 users can get their hands on a machined aluminum remote control, boasting both physical buttons and a 3-inch LCD touchscreen. It works out of the box - provided users are on Smart Home OS 3 with their Control4 systems - so there’s no need for a dealer installation.
It offers controls for multimedia elements of a Control4 setup, such as streaming audio and video, as well as giving users control over their smart home scenes and connected devices.
It boasts a 5-day battery life and is easily charged via the sleek magnetic charging dock that comes in the box.
“The modern smart home needs simple interfaces to start a movie, select a playlist, or lock a door. Neeo was expertly designed to be beautiful, and with Control4 OS 3, it’s also the easiest way for a family to enjoy entertainment in their homes,” said Charlie Kindel, SnapAV chief product & technology officer. “Neeo is a reflection of our obsession for creating the most elegant and simple interfaces for the refined smart home.”
Control4 announced that it had acquired Switzerland-based Neeo back in February. The original Neeo Remote was born out of a hugely successful 2015 Kickstarter campaign, when over 6,000 backers pledged a total of more than $1.5 millon to get their hands on the universal remote.
After that Kickstarter lift-off the Swiss company sold the remote control directly to consumers via an online store but now Neeo is a brand that is only available through Control4’s network of approved dealers, to work hand in hand with its home-automation system.
It’s a similar approach to how Control4 have offered to Pakedge and Triad devices. It acquired the former – a network specialist – back in 2016, and the latter – which creates high-end audio solutions – a year later; and both brands are now only available through authorised dealers.
Control4 already has a universal remote – the SR-260 – but the addition of the slick-looking Neeo gives users a lot to be excited about.
The new Neeo Remote for Control4 is available now, through authorised dealers, for $600. It comes in either silver or black.
