
# The Luciano Pavarotti Foundation & Anggun | Brian McFadden | French Cinema Festival | Cool Things To Do in Jakarta This Weekend (Nov 8-10)

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:57:43+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Jakarta**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/jakarta/lifestyle/the-luciano-pavarotti-foundation-anggun-brian-mcfadden-french-cinema-festival-cool-things-to-do-in-jakarta-this-weekend-nov-8-10/)


        
          Festival Sinema Prancis
        
      
Festival Sinema Prancis (French Cinema Festival) has been held since 1996 before its absence in the last four years. This year, the festival is back for its 21st edition with selections of 12 French films released in the last five years — with genres varying from comedy, action, drama, romance, fantasy, to documentary. Other than Jakarta, the festival is also held in 15 cities across Indonesia.

        The festival is currently running until Sunday, Nov 10 at IFI Thamrin and Wijaya, as well as Kinosaurus in Kemang and Cinespace in Scientia Square Park, Tangerang. Free entry, complete schedule can be found here.
      

        
          Meltdown: Road to 20th anniversary of Javabass
        
      
To mark Javabass Soundsystem’s 20th anniversary, the drum and bass collective will be celebrating this weekend with Meltdown. Expect soul music, as well as drum and bass, playing all night with selectors Muztang and Turismo Avenue, with guests December Kid (Drum and Bass Set) and Bolsq.

        Friday, Nov 8 at The Room, Hotel Monopoli in Kemang, South Jakarta. Free entry
      

        
          Urban Sneaker Society 2019
        
      
Attention, sneakerheads of Jakarta: this is the event for you this weekend. Here, you’ll find a variety of the coolest local and international sneakers brands, as well as discussions on sneakers and culture. Several brands will also launch their exclusive release and collaborations here, and to top it off, there will be performances by Indonesia’s leading hip hop and electronic acts. Check out the complete schedule on Urban Sneaker Society’s official website.

        Friday, Nov 8 – Sunday, Nov 10 at District 8, SCBD, South Jakarta. Tickets are only available on the spot at IDR80K/person, IDR40K/person with payment using Bank Mandiri cards. Free entry for Mandiri Prioritas, Private, Signature, and World Elite card holders.
      

        
          The Luciano Pavarotti Foundation & Anggun in Concert
        
      
The Embassy of Italy and the Italian Cultural Institute (Istituto Italiano di Cultura), in collaboration with Aula Simfonia Jakarta, is hosting The Luciano Pavarotti Foundation & Anggun in Concert on Saturday. The concert is part of a series of events to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between Italy and Indonesia.
The late Luciano Pavarotti (1935-2007) was an Italian operatic tenor who, due to his crossover into popular music, became one of the most renowned and commercially successful tenors of all time. This concert will revisit the Maestro’s philosophy, which melds together modern and operatic classical music, that will be performed by the artists of The Pavarotti Foundation.
The show’s highlight will be the virtual duet between Indonesian-born French singer Anggun C. Sasmi and Pavarotti, a repeat of the performance on the finale of Asia’s Got Talent in April this year.

        Saturday, Nov 9 at Aula Simfonia Jakarta, Kemayoran, Central Jakarta, from 5pm onwards. Tickets are available through Aula Simfonia’s ticket box at +6221 6586 7808, +628777 100 2009, or email: boxoffice@aulasimfoniajakarta.com.
      

        
          Romantic Intimate Concert with Brian McFadden
        
      
This weekend, enjoy a romantic evening with Brian McFadden, the former member of the Irish boyband Westlife. He will be performing your favorite Westlife hits from the noughties in what promises to be a nostalgia-filled evening. If you were (or still are) a fan of McFadden, you might not want to miss the chance to meet him in person in the meet-and-greet session.

        Saturday, Nov 9 at WHIZ Prime Kelapa Gading, North Jakarta, from 8pm-10pm. Tickets are available on Bookmyshow, with tickets starting IDR750K for festival (standing), IDR1.5 million for festival bundle (three tickets), and IDR1.75 million for meet and greet with Brian McFadden (including one festival ticket).
      

        
          SO-SO
        
      
This Saturday night will be the night of rolling rhythms and dance-inducing beats at Zodiac, with Sattle, Django, and Baldi Calvianca behind the decks. Don’t forget to start your night of partying with some cocktails.

        Saturday, Nov 9 at Zodiac Jakarta, Senopati, from 8pm onwards. Free entry, RSVP to +62 878 88 963 422.
      

        Stay up-to-date with the coolest events in Jakarta 
        
          here
        
        .
      
