
# IND vs BAN | Cyclone Maha threatens second T20I in Rajkot

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:28:34+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/cyclone-maha-threatens-second-t-20-i-in-rajkot?utm_medium=rss)


        The India Bangladesh series have been riddled with troubles from the word go, starting from the players strike to bad air in Delhi and now a cyclone in the Arabian sea. According to IMD director Jayanta Sarkar, "the storm will cause heavy to very heavy rains in Saurashtra on November 6-7."
      
After deadly air in Delhi posing a steep danger against the first T20, cyclone Maha in the Arabian sea is threatening the second one. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Cyclone Maha is expected to make landfall in Saurashtra on November 6 and could cause "heavy or very heavy rains" in the state on November 7, the day of the match.
Positioned around the central Arabian Sea on Monday morning, just over 600 kilometres from the coast of Gujarat, the cyclone has been moving north-west from close to the Kerala coast for the last five days. It is, however, expected to take a turn towards Gujarat on Tuesday. Saurashtra Cricket Association head Jaydev Shah has assured that all the necessary precautions have been taken to make sure that the match takes place smoothly.
"We have covered the ground to make sure the match can start on time in case the rain does disrupt," Shah told ESPNCricinfo.
The director of IMD Jayanta Sarkar giving more information on Cyclone Maha, he said that the cyclone will batter Saurashtra and South Gujarat.
"Severe cyclonic storm Maha lay centered at 580 kilometres southwest of Diu and 550 kms southwest of Veraval," IMD director Jayanta Sarkar told PTI. "It is most likely to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and make landfall between Dwarka and Diu on Wednesday night or early Thursday morning with wind speeds of 120 kilometres per hour.
"The storm will cause heavy to very heavy rains in Saurashtra [the region of which Rajkot is a part] and south Gujarat on November 6-7. It is moving towards Oman but will recurve towards Gujarat coast on Monday."
