
# In Thailand for Asean summit, Duterte vows to be atop situation in quake-hit Mindanao

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:20:55+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/01/in-thailand-for-asean-summit-duterte-vows-to-be-atop-situation-in-quake-hit-mindanao/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
PRESIDENT Duterte gave assurances on Friday that the government is on top of the situation in Mindanao, which was rocked by three strong quakes in October, even while he is in Thailand for the 35th Asean Summit and Related Summits. 
At the same time, Presidential Spokesman Salvador C. Panelo said in a statement on Friday that Duterte is expected to attend nine events during the summit. 
Panelo said the President will be seen at the Asean Plenary Summit as well as other events, which include the 22nd Asean-China Summit, the 16th Asean-India Summit, the 10th Asean-UN Summit, the 22nd Asean plus Three Summit, the 7th Asean-US Summit, the 14th East Asia Summit, the 22nd Asean-Japan Summit, and the 3rd Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) Summit.
“While Executive Secretary Salvador C. Medialdea has been designated as the government’s Officer-in-Charge, as per Special Order No. 1182, signed by PRRD himself, we assure our people that the Chief Executive remains on top of the situation monitoring the situation in the Philippines, especially the earthquake-hit areas of Mindanao,” Panelo said. 
The Palace also said the President’s participation in the above-mentioned summits is aimed to further enhance economic growth within a peaceful environment, and regional and global stability in the years to come. 
“The delegation, meanwhile, is excited to witness the President make our country and citizenry proud once again as he discusses his views and shares his insights on pressing matters that will be tackled in the summits,” he said. 
The President was set to leave for Bangkok on Friday afternoon. This year’s Asean Summit will be held on November 2 to 4 in Nonthaburi, Thailand. 
Aside from the heads of the 10 member-states of the regional bloc, other leaders expected to attend this year’s summit are Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. 
United States President will be skipping this year’s summit. He will be represented by National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. 
