
# Off to The Dolphin it is: Plymouth Argyle fans react to Home Park postponement

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:54:22+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/dolphin-is-plymouth-argyle-fans-3495664)

The Green Army reacted with a mixture of annoyance and humour on social media after the postponement of Plymouth Argyle's League Two game against Grimsby Town today.
The game was called off at around 12.30pm - two-and-a-half hours before the scheduled kick-off - after damage to the roof of the Barn Park End at Home Park.
A section of the roof had become loose after overnight gales battered Plymouth and the rest of Devon and Cornwall.
The decision to postpone the game was taken on safety grounds, after consultations between Argyle, Plymouth City Council and the police.
Some supporters were angered at what they considered as the late timing of the announcement and sympathised with Grimsby fans who had travelled all the way down from Humberside.
Others, though, were determined to make the most of the afternoon off, with Roger Willis tweeting he was off to The Dolphin, the popular pub on the Barbican.
Phil Toms, meanwhile, was going to have 'a Pasty fest' until his return train home.
One of the funniest quips, though, came from Luke @lfolland27 who tweeted: "Ryan Lowe did want us to take the roof off the place tbf #pafc.'  
Here is a selection of the comments to the postponement from the Green Army. 

        Argyle game postponed - Curated tweets by ChrisErrington1
      
