
# Liz Cheney to Introduce Bill Barring White House From Renewing Iran Waivers - Report

Published at: **2019-11-05T02:57:28+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/us/201911051077225470-liz-cheney-to-introduce-bill-barring-white-house-from-renewing-iran-waivers---report/)

Republican Representative Liz Cheney, the daughter of the former US Vice President Dick Cheney, will introduce a bill that will forbid the Trump administration from extending nuclear waivers to Iran, The Hill reported Monday.
According to current rules, the White House has the right to issue ‘civil nuclear’ waivers, allowing foreign companies to conduct non-proliferation work at Iranian nuclear facilities. Cheney’s bill will remove this option.
“That is why I will soon be introducing legislation that revokes these exceptions and ensures that the nuclear deal is totally and completely dismantled," she said.
In 2018, Trump unilaterally withdrew from the so-called Iranian nuclear deal, signed by the US, Iran, Russia, China, the EU and several European nations.
Cheney’s bill will be mirrored by additional legislation authored by Senators Ted Cruz and Lindsay Graham, who called the waiver mechanism a “loophole,” according to The Hill.
Earlier last week, Trump renewed waivers allowing foreign companies to cooperate with Iran on nuclear projects. 
Trump’s nuclear waivers received staunch criticism from “hawks” within Congress, including Cruz and Graham.
Despite the lawmakers’ initiative, the waivers in question were already signed, The Hill reports, citing the US State Department. The department has defended the mechanism, saying it allows them to keep an eye on Iran’s nuclear development.
