
# Harry Styles Announces Release Date For New Album, ‘Fine Line’

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bryan Rolli**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bryanrolli/2019/11/04/harry-styles-announces-release-date-for-new-album-fine-line/)

Harry Styles fans have been champing at the bit for the singer’s new album, and next month, their wait will be over. Styles announced today that he will release his sophomore album, Fine Line, on Dec. 13. As he does with most big announcements, the One Direction alum broke the news via social media, sharing what is ostensibly the album cover on Twitter and Instagram. The fish-eye photo features Styles in a suggestive pose, donning a pink button-up shirt and white high-waisted pants, with a leather gloved hand reaching up toward him from the edge of the frame.
The Fine Line announcement comes three weeks after the release of “Lights Up,” which features more electronic flourishes and an overall poppier sound than Styles’ classic rock-influenced debut LP. The song has thus far peaked at No. 17 on the Billboard Hot 100. 
Styles made his solo debut in 2017 with his self-titled album. The set debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200, and its lead single, “Sign of the Times,” peaked at No. 4 on the Hot 100. The ensuing tour sold nearly 1 million tickets.
The 25-year-old heartthrob could soar higher on the singles chart this time, especially if the rest of Fine Line follows the poppy precedent set by “Lights Up.” Styles will also get a great promotional opportunity when he pulls double duty as host and musical guest on Saturday Night Live on Nov. 16. 
