
# Australian men, women soccer players close gender pay gap

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:07:00+00:00**

Author: **The Associated Press, Staff**

Original: [www.ctvnews.ca](https://www.ctvnews.ca/sports/australian-men-women-soccer-players-close-gender-pay-gap-1.4672165)

SYDNEY, Australia - Australia's football federation and players' union say they have agreed on a new collective bargaining agreement that closes the pay gap between the men's and women's national teams.
The new four-year CBA announced Wednesday ensures the Socceroos and Matildas receive a 24% share of an agreed aggregate of generated revenues in 2019-20, rising by 1% each year.
Under the agreement, players are entitled to 40% of prize money on qualifying for a FIFA World Cup, representing an increase from 30%. That share of prize money increases to 50% if they progress to the knockout stage of the competition.
“The new agreement reflects football's determination to address issues of gender equity in all facets of the game and build a sustainable financial model that rewards players as national team revenues increase,” a joint statement said. “Significantly for the Matildas, a new three-tiered centralized contract system will see Australia's finest women's footballers provided with increased annual remuneration with the tier 1 players earning the same amount as the top Socceroos.”
The agreement still doesn't reflect equal remuneration: the Socceroos' prize money is exponentially greater than the Matildas.
Local media reported that at the 2018 men's World Cup in Russia, the Socceroos earned $5.5 million just for qualifying, and then failed to win a game. The Matildas earned about $700,000 for making the knockout stages at the Women's World Cup in France this year.
Critics say the women will still end up with a much smaller share and that the teams should share the same percentage of a total prize money pool.
