
# Starting XI: CT City v Polokwane

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:58:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/match-reports/absa-premiership-starting-xi-cape-town-city-v-polokwane-city-06-november-2019-2/666842)


        Absa Premiership
      
Teams: Cape Town City v Polokwane City
Date: 06 November 2019
Venue: Cape Town Stadium
Cape Town City begin life without Benni McCarthy with the visit of Polokwane City in the Absa Premiership on Wednesday evening.

        
          View The PSL Table
        
      
After just one win in the opening eight league games, the Citizens announced on Sunday night that McCarthy's contract had been terminated.
Assistant coach Vasili Manousakis will take charge of the first team while the club prepare to bring in their new head coach.
McCarthy's last match in charge ended in a 1-0 defeat to Maritzburg United at the Cape Town Stadium, leaving the side in 13th position.
The Citizens will come up against a Polokwane outfit in a bit of a slump of their own, having lost their last four matches in all competitions.
Rise and Shine find themselves in eighth position ahead of tonight's encounters, although they could rise as high as third with a victory this evening.
These two sides have already met in the MTN8 this season, with Polokwane claiming a 2-0 win at Newlands Stadium in August.

        Here's how they line up:
      
City: 16. Stephens, 2. Mkhize, 12. Fielies, 27. Potouridis, 5. Edmilson, 19. Putsche, 26. Nodada, 9. Erasmus, 11. Ralani, 17. Norodien, 25. Mthembu.
Subs:  Anderson, 6. Seedat, 21. Mokeke, 30. Martin, 25. Lakay, 8. Makola, 41. Abrahams.
Polokwane: 1. Chigova, 26. Nkili, 32. Buthelezi, 22. Mbonani, 27.Motloung, 14. Manaka, 16. Mngomezulu, 20. Phiri, 9. Mashumba, 8. Maluleke, 7. Booi.
Subs: 40. Chibwe, 24. Hlongwane, 4. Nene, 6. Chauke, 18. W.Maluleke, 15. Musona, 33. Nku.
