
# Kamala Harris hits back at 'nonsense' from Rep. James Clyburn that some black voters are homophobic

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:10:29+00:00**

Author: **John Gage**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/kamala-harris-hits-back-at-nonsense-from-representative-clyburn-that-some-black-voters-are-homophobic)

Sen. Kamala Harris took aim at Democrats who claimed that rival Pete Buttigieg's sexuality would be an issue in the Democratic presidential primary among black voters.
"I'm never going to buy into that trope. And I think it's a trope that's evolved among some Democrats to suggest that African Americans are homophobic or that there's transphobia in the black community as a community. That’s just nonsense," the California Democrat said Monday on CNN. "I’m not saying that about Representative Clyburn, who I respect a lot. I’m talking about a trope that has developed among some. And the reality is that sadly, and unfortunately, in all communities bias occurs and in particular homophobia and transphobia."
"To label one community in particular as being burdened by this bias as compared to others is misinformed, it’s misdirected and it’s just simply wrong," Harris added.
The comments come as Rep. James Clyburn said Sunday that many older black voters may not be fans of Buttigieg because he is gay.
"I know of a lot of people my age that feel that way," Clyburn said on CNN. "I'm not going to sit here and tell you otherwise. I think everybody knows that's an issue."
The South Bend mayor has struggled with black voters in polls including a focus group by his own campaign which found his sexuality to be "a barrier" among black voters.
The 2020 contender is currently polling at 7% in national polls for the Democratic presidential primary according to RealClearPolitics.
