
# Microsoft’s new Edge browser will ship without ARM64 support and no history or extension sync

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Joe Fedewa**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/microsoft-edge-browser-arm64-support-no-history-extension-sync/)

Earlier this week, Microsoft announced the general availability (along with a new icon) of its Edge browser based on Chromium. The browser was first made available to download back in April for Insiders, but in January 2020 it will launch to the public. We now have a few more details about what that upcoming version will include, or rather, not include.
Despite Microsoft launching the ARM-powered Surface Pro X just this week, the Chromium-based Edge will not support ARM64 at launch. The reason for this is a blocking bug that is exclusive to the ARM architecture. Microsoft still does plan to offer Chromium Edge for ARM in the future, though. Still, the lack of ARM64 support in Edge is worrying for the prospects of the new ARM-based Surface Pro.
A bigger deal for most users, though, is the lack of history and extension syncing. Edge CVP Chuck Friedman spoke to Neowin about these features not being present, and basically it came down to not being important enough. ARM64 support, history sync, and extension sync may be available in the Dev and Canary versions, but they won’t be in the stable version that launches in January 2020. Password syncing, which is used by many users, will be present, though.
When January 15, 2020, rolls around, you will see Chromium Edge show up on your Windows PC. The app will be updated through Windows Update and it will be installed over the old Microsoft Edge browser. Have you tried out Chromium Edge yet?

        Source: Neowin
      
