
# Preventing An Active Shooter In Your Workplace

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Patrick Brosnan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesbusinessdevelopmentcouncil/2019/11/06/preventing-an-active-shooter-in-your-workplace/)

In 2018, 59% of the 27 active shooter incidents in the United States occurred in areas of commerce. This trend is not new. With employee and customer lives at stake, companies should not ignore this growing threat in their security planning and employee training.The idea that “it could never happen here” is misguided. Active shooter incidents can happen anywhere. Restaurants and bars, distribution centers, a high-rise office complex, a hotel, a yoga retail location, a grocery store, a software company, a newspaper and a trucking company all saw the devastating effects of an active shooter in 2018. Only 9 of the 16 events that took place at businesses were at locations open to the public.
Many business leaders I've worked with feel unable to prepare for such a complex and unpredictable event. It’s true that there is no one profile for an active shooter. However, several common areas of risk emerge based on past shooter profiles: a disgruntled employee or former employee, someone with a grievance against the company or an individual perpetrating violence against a spouse or romantic partner. Often, shooters display preattack behaviors. When leaders know what to look for, they can often vet potential threats before an attack occurs.
There are practical and cost-effective steps your business can take to prevent and prepare for active shooter events.

        Train Employees
      
Part of a training program includes discussing how to help identify a potential threat. Companies should then set up a confidential reporting system where employees feel comfortable sharing red flags with human resources and other leaders. This is important because an employee may have to share sensitive personal information about abuse at home.
According to the FBI, the average active shooter event lasts 12 minutes, and many are over before law enforcement arrives. Employees need to respond quickly. A good rule to follow during an active shooter event is to run, hide and fight. Employees should run to safety first. If they cannot get out of the building, they should know safe places to hide where a shooter cannot see them. When hiding is not an option, they should fight off the shooter. Practicing each of these scenarios can save lives.
There should also be a plan for first aid to help those wounded during an event. Make sure employees have regular training and access to first aid equipment in the office.

        Secure Your Physical Space
      
To secure your business, start with security technologies such as alarms, cameras, audio monitoring and auto-locking doors. These tools are your first line of defense.
Ensure your business has adequate evacuation routes and safe areas to hide as your next step. In today’s culture of open offices and glass walls, businesses shouldn't give a shooter 360-degree views without anywhere for employees to hide.
Last, leaders should consider implementing security protocols for terminations and layoffs since some active shooters were recently fired or laid-off employees. I recommend that security personnel disable building access for these employees and alert local law enforcement if anyone observes concerning behavior during a termination.

        Monitor For Threats
      
Businesses can conduct a threat analysis to identify potential security risks. Employee background checks are a first step to mitigate risk (while my company offers these, others do as well). These checks can verify work history, driving records, criminal records and sex offender information. You should consider conducting annual routine checks that may find potential red flags you can mitigate.
Listening online by keeping an eye on employees' activity is another tool that businesses should use to monitor threats. Some active shooters may post online (or otherwise "leak violent intent") before the event. If you see this soon enough, you can report posts to authorities for further investigation.

        Resources
      
The Department of Homeland Security provides free resources and training to prepare your employees for active shooters. Your local community may also offer resources through local law enforcement. Take advantage of these practical tools for training employees, securing physical spaces and monitoring for threats.
An active shooter can cause devastating injuries and loss of life. These events can also cause emotional distress for survivors and permanent damage to a brand. The cost of recovery from an event is such that many businesses are now investing in active shooter insurance coverage. This is a good step for many businesses. But, if they haven’t also worked on a prevention plan, they are not focused on the most effective strategy. Your business can minimize the probability of an active shooter event or minimize damage with proactive training and security measures.
