
# Armagh brothers wanted over Essex lorry deaths 'should give themselves up'

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **CLAIRE SIMPSON**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/02/news/armagh-brothers-wanted-over-essex-lorry-deaths-should-give-themselves-up--1754493/)

TWO Armagh brothers wanted over the deaths of 39 migrants in a lorry in Essex must hand themselves in to the PSNI, a senior English detective has said.
Ronan Hughes (40) and his brother Christopher (34) are wanted on suspicion of manslaughter and human trafficking over the deaths of 31 men and eight women found in a refrigerated lorry container last week.
Police from Essex travelled to Belfast to make a direct appeal to the brothers yesterday.
Detective Chief Inspector Daniel Stoten said officers had already spoken to Ronan Hughes on the phone but needed to meet him in person.
It is understood Ronan Hughes had telephone conversations with both Essex Police and the PSNI.
A lorry linked to Ronan Hughes, a convicted cigarette smuggler, was stopped and seized at Sprucefield in Lisburn on Thursday.
No arrests were made.
The Hughes brothers have links with both sides of the border, including an address in Tyholland, Co Monaghan.
Mr Stoten said: "Today I want to make a direct appeal - Ronan and Christopher, hand yourselves in to the Police Service of Northern Ireland."
"We need you both to come forward and assist this investigation," he said.
"Although we have already spoken to Ronan Hughes recently by telephone we need to have a conversation with him and his brother in person.
"Talking to Ronan and Christopher is crucial to our investigation and the sooner we can make this happen the sooner we can progress and continue with our investigation."
Mr Stoten thanked people on both sides of the border for their help in the investigation "along with those in the road haulage and shipping industries who have come forward to share information".
He said Essex police will continue to work with the PSNI and gardaí "until Ronan and Christopher Hughes have come forward or are arrested".
"It is essential we follow all lines of inquiry and bring those responsible for these tragic events to justice," he said.
"Ronan and Christopher Hughes are known to have links in Northern Ireland and Ireland as well as the road haulage and shipping industries.
"We urge anyone who has been in contact with them or has any information about where they are to get in contact with us."
Mo Robinson (25), of Laurelvale, Co Armagh, appeared at Chelmsford Magistrates' Court on Monday charged with 39 counts of manslaughter, conspiracy to traffic people, conspiracy to assist unlawful immigration, and money laundering as part of their investigation.
Three other people arrested in connection with the investigation - a 38-year-old man, a 38-year-old woman, and a 46 year-old man - have all been released on bail until November.
Meanwhile, police in Vietnam have arrested two people and summoned others for questioning in connection with the deaths of the 39 migrants.
Ha Tinh regional police launched an investigation after 10 Vietnamese families reported their relatives missing.
Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc last week ordered an investigation into alleged human trafficking amid fears at least some of the victims were from Vietnam.
