
# Cognizant defers increments for senior staff

Published at: **2019-11-02T05:14:56+00:00**

Author: **Shilpa Phadnis**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/cognizant-defers-increments-for-senior-staff/articleshow/71862392.cms)

BENGALURU: There’s more bad news for senior employees at Cognizant. The Nasdaq-listed firm is deferring increments and promotions to them, partly to contain costs.
“We are making changes to the manager-plus annual salary revisions and promotions process. We are refining the process not simply to contain costs, but to drive greater career mobility, just in time promotions and a more meritocratic culture. Therefore, for this population we are deferring all decisions on salary increase and promotions until next year,” said Cognizant CEO Brian Humphries in an email to employees.
There have been uncertainties around salary hikes in the IT industry this year, with several companies deferring hikes for certain segments, especially mid to senior executives. The reasons have varied, from fall in revenue growth to declining margins.
Cognizant has said the current cost optimisation drive will end by 2020 and result in total charges of approximately $150-200 million in severance and exit costs, and bring annualised gross savings run rate of around $500-550 million in the year 2021.
Cognizant has rolled out salary hikes up to the level of senior associate. That was reflected in the September paycheque and was effective from July 1.
Humphries said in the email that establishing a healthier cost structure is a means to a clear end – driving growth. Cognizant, he said, plans to invest over $200 million in four digital battlegrounds – cloud, IoT, digital engineering and data.
This money, Humphries said, will go into “the previously announced hiring of approximately 500 revenue generating associates over the coming year, a combination of customer facing and sales support professionals who will help us in expanding existing accounts as we generate new ones. Significant investments in Cognizant Academy and in technical skills as we aim to reskill and redeploy our talent towards digital imperatives. Accelerated investments in tooling and automation and increased investments in marketing, branding, as we aim to strengthen our international operations and our digital brand.”
Cognizant Academy provides learning resources, labs, licenses, certifications, deep-dive classroom sessions, and alliance partner content. Recently, Cognizant said it expects to double its investment in technical education next year.
