
# 'Wasn't right' - Aston Villa injury list in full as Jack Grealish eyes return

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:52:00+00:00**

Author: **Ashley Preece, https://www.facebook.com/PreeceBirminghamLive/, Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-jack-grealish-injury-14251861)

Aston Villa slumped to a second defeat in a row on Saturday when Liverpool came to Villa Park and won 2-1.
Villa lost to Manchester City 3-0 at the Etihad Stadium last weekend, with Jack Grealish injuring his calf in the loss to Pep Guardiola's back-to-back champions.
As a result, he missed the 2-1 Carabao Cup defeat of Wolverhampton Wanderers in midweek and the loss at home to Liverpool by the same scoreline on Saturday.
Liverpool needed late goals from Andy Robertson and Sadio Mane, the pair netting on the 87th and 94th minutes respectively after Trezeguet opened the scoring in the first half with his maiden goal for the club.
Now attentions turn to the trip to Wolves on Saturday and Grealish's fitness will be a hot topic this week.

        Here's Villa's injury list in full...
      
Injury: Hamstring
Details: Substituted after 50 minutes of his third start of the season.
Last match: Wednesday, October 30 - Villa 2-1 Wolves, 50 minutes.
Expected return date: Manchester United (away), December 1.
What Smith has said: "He's had a scan and he's got a hamstring injury. It's likely he'll be out for three to four weeks. The only good thing with that is that we've got an international period which can eat a few days into his injury. It's a blow because he's been doing well. He's been pushing Wes."
Injury: Calf
Details: Was taken off in the closing stages against Manchester City with a knock to his calf. Was later seen leaving The Etihad on crutches. Smith revealed after the Wolves win that he is responding well to treatment and wouldn't have been picked for the the Carabao Cup win anyway.
Last match: Saturday, October 26 - Man City 3 Villa 0, 84 minutes.
Expected return date: Wolves (A), November 10.
What Smith has said: "He will be fine for next week.
“He trained with us on Friday but woke up this morning and just felt he wasn’t right. 
“He had a little run on the pitch pre-game. But I told him I wanted him to be 100% because you have to be against teams like this. 
“He wasn’t so he made the call and I certainly supported him on that.”
Injury: Hernia
Details: Underwent surgery during the previous international break while uploading a photo from hospital following the successful op. Needs time to fully recover now after playing with hernia pain, even with Blues.
Last match: Wednesday, September 25 - Brighton 1 Villa 3, 90 minutes.
Expected return date: Wolves (A), November 10.
What's been said: Dean Smith said before the game with City: "It's looking well. Jota had a hernia operation nearly two weeks ago. He's not yet joined us for training.
"We've got a fully-fit squad with the exception of Jota at the moment."
In the build-up to the Wolves game, O'Kelly revealed the comfort Jota is taking from a colleague's recovery: "Jota is probably a couple of weeks away from it but he is going well on the training pitch.
"Him and Rob Marshall (physio) had hernias at the same time and they are comforting each other, working each other on the training pitch and they will hopefully back with us on the training pitch in a couple of weeks."
Injury: Hamstring
Details: Has been out ever since tweaking his hamstring during the Shrewsbury Town pre-season friendly. Missed friendlies at Walsall, Charlton and Leipzig after that but is back and is currently building up his match fitness, making his first appearance in a match-day squad of the season against Wolves. He didn't make the squad for the Premier League defeat to Liverpool, mind.
Last match: Monday, October 24 - Aston Villa U23s 1 Fulham U23s 0, 70 minutes.
Expected return date: Soon. Back in a match-day squad and ready to return.
What's been said:  O'Kelly suggested that Chester's return could be imminent: "James Chester has stepped his training up. (He's) looking very good.
"The other thing with James Chester as well is he sounds good, his personality and character is fantastic to have within the group and it's fantastic to have him back out there.
"He is a really positive character, he drives people and he will be great to have back in the squad."
