
# You’ve got mail, for blackmail

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Pragna L Krupa**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/youve-got-mail-for-blackmail/articleshow/71944553.cms)

Cyber criminals threaten to ‘expose’ targets if they are not paid $1,200 in bitcoinsDon’t be in a hurry to click on every other link in your email. Cyber crooks are on the prowl, targeting corporate employees, sending them spurious emails. The emails will have a message: Your system has been hacked by our malware and we have all your personal information that was stored in your systems. These crooks then demand $1,200 in bitcoins; and if you don’t oblige, they threaten to put all the information on social media. In these mails are the links to know what information they have. And when the receivers of the mail clicks on the links, their systems get compromised. Cyber Crime police have received around seven such complaints this year from people who have fallen for this email con and lost money. Cyber sleuths say that such emails are seasonal and also that they are often sent during peak hours of the working day so that people, who are in a hurry and in pressure end up responding to it and clicking on the link. The criminals could be from anywhere in the world and they work on a trial and error basis. These mails are sent repeatedly and are often give a deadline of three to four days to make the payment. These emails start with a message that they know your password and make guesses like the person’s first or last name.
.
They claim the computer has been infected with a malware RAT (Remote Administration Tool), and now they have gained full access to the computer, including their accounts and passwords. They elaborate that even the microphone and camera on the screen can be turned on. They claim that they removed the malware after recording and copying all the personal data. They would threaten to publish it everywhere online and demand $1,200 bitcoins in return for the information. Cyber sleuths say that people who keep their private photos and videos in their system are more vulnerable to such cons as it can be worrisome for them if these become public. In many cases, people have responded to such mails and lost huge some of money. A senior officer said that most persons do not know how the technology works and end up believing whatever the con mail says. The word ‘hack’ scares people into thinking that the other person has taken control over the computer and given full access to it.
