
# The best PS4 deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:33:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Painter**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/game/best-ps4-deals-3664484/)

Gamers are notoriously keen for a bargain - the closely followed Steam sales are a prime example - so it’s no surprise that people are always on the lookout for big deals on PlayStation 4 consoles and game, as well as additional PS4 accessories.
2019 is a great year for the PlayStation, with huge new games due for release in the run-up to Christmas, so it's a great time to pick up a console if you haven't already.
There are great gaming discounts to be found all year round, not just in the run-up to Christmas. We’ve rounded up the best PS4 deals of November 2019 for you, right here.

        Sony Xperia 10 64GB + PS4 + Call of Duty: Modern WarfareFrom: Mobiles.co.ukNow: £33 per month (£50 upfront)View Deal
      

        PS4 Pro 1TB + Days GoneFrom: eBuyerNow: £339.99View Deal
      

        PS4 500GB + Horizon Zero Dawn + Uncharted 4 + The Last of Us RemasteredFrom: AmazonNow: £270.68View Deal
      

        PS4 500GB + Fortnite Neo Versa Bundle + The Division 2 + Additional ControllerFrom: ArgosWas: £279.98Now: £249.99  (£29.99 off) View Deal
      
PS4 Days of Play 2019 Limited EditionFrom: The Game CollectionWas: £279.95Now: £249.95  (£30 off) View Deal< >
Naturally, console bundles are among the most requested bargains. It’s become pretty typical to see a 500GB PS4 Slim with a game for £250, or the 1TB model for £330, so less than this is a bit of a bargain. Look for prices that drop below those, or bundles with even more games or an additional controller and other accessories.
The PS4 Pro is a little more expensive, and is worthwhile if you’ve got a 4K TV  or plan on getting one in the near future. If you have, the PS4 Pro will help you future-proof and enhance your overall gaming experience. Given the additional horsepower, it’s a very compelling alternative to the Slim and is easy to recommend. You’ll find bundles available for £350, so any less than that for the Pro is a good deal.
PlayStation VR bundles are sought-after, too. While the headset is officially available for around £200, you can often find bundles with additional games or other extras. Check out our separate round-up of VR deals for more on this.
Of course, loads of PS4 and PSVR games are available for low prices too - look for new releases at £35 or below, while older games often drop to just £10 or £15.
Most major game retailers do discounts throughout the year. The best places to look are the likes of Amazon, Game, Currys and Argos. 
Beyond Amazon, here are a few of the best places to check for the best PS4 bargains:

        From: Mobiles.co.ukNow: £33 per month (£50 upfront)View Deal
      
Mobiles.co.uk is running an offer right now bundling a PS4 and a copy of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare with any Sony Xperia 10 contract deal. This deal, in particular, provides the phone and PS4 alongside 20GB of data and unlimited calls and texts for only £33 a month with a £50 upfront cost - that's not a bad deal without ﻿the console. 

        From: eBuyerNow: £339.99View Deal
      
You'll get not only the 4K-enabled PS4 Pro 1TB and controller in this attractive bundle, but a copy of PS4-exclusive Days Gone to play too. 

        From: AmazonNow: £270.68View Deal
      
At just over £270, this bundle has everything you need to kickstart your PlayStation 4 collection. 

        From: ArgosWas: £279.98Now: £249.99  (£29.99 off) View Deal
      
If your love of shooters extends from Fortnite to the Tom Clancy series of games, you'll love this PS4 bundle. You get a bunch of in-game content for the free-to-play shooter, along with a copy of 2019 hit, The Division 2, and an additional controller too.

        From: The Game CollectionWas: £279.95Now: £249.95  (£30 off) View Deal
      
It may not be as cheap as the standard PS4, but the 1TB PS4 Days of Play Limited Edition console is exactly that - limited edition. There aren't many of these floating around anymore, and once they're gone, they're gone!
