
# Two Mayo schools in Money Smarts Challenge final

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:21:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/05/4181922-two-mayo-schools-in-money-smarts-challenge-final/)

TEAMS from Ballinrobe Community School and Davitt College in Castlebar emerged victorious from the Mayo final in the Bank of Ireland Money Smarts Challenge, held in Breaffy House Hotel.
A total of 140 students from 15 schools across Mayo took part in the final, comprising of eight rounds of money-related questions and puzzles, with Ballinrobe taking the top prize and Davitt College as runners-up.
The two secondary school teams guaranteed their place in the Money Smarts grand final next April, and now have the chance to claim the top prize of €25,000 for their schools.
The Mayo final was the first regional contest to take place in the challenge, with Bank of Ireland Youth Ambassador James Patrice on hosting duties.
The Money Smarts Challenge is designed in conjunction with business studies teachers and financial wellbeing experts, and is part of Bank of Ireland’s five-year Financial Wellbeing Programme. The aim is to increase financial awareness among teenagers, presenting core elements of financial wellbeing like spending, saving, earning, credit and debt through interactive content and real life scenarios.
Rory Carty, Head of Youth Banking, Bank of Ireland, commented: “It was fantastic to see such a strong turnout of Mayo schools at the Money Smarts Challenge at Breaffy House Hotel. It’s not always easy to get teenagers engaged about money management and financial literacy, but Bank of Ireland’s new secondary school competition puts students to the test and offers a fantastic prize of €25,000 to the winning school.
“Congratulations to Ballinrobe Community School and Davitt College on their qualification from the Mayo final.”
There are 18 regional finals taking place between now and next February.
