
# UFC 244 Results: Kevin Lee Eradicates Gregor Gillespie (VIDEO) With Massive Head Kick To Earn $50K Bonus

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/02/ufc-244-results-kevin-lee-eradicates-gregor-gillespie-video-with-massive-head-kick-to-earn-50k-bonus/)

Kevin Lee just scored one of the most devastating head-kick KOs of 2019, or ever. On Saturday night in Madison Square Garden on the UFC 244 main card, Lee crushed the previously undefeated Gregor Gillespie with this hellacious head kick.
Here is what the MMA community said about the finish:
The early action was an indication of the explosive ending. Lee came out in a very low stance to take away Gillespie’s openings to shoot for a takedown. Gillespie is one of the most accomplished wrestlers in the sport, and Lee didn’t want to allow him an opportunity to get to his strength.
Lee’s hands were faster, and he was landing the more effective strikes. The definitive blows were a right hand over the top and the left kick to the head that rendered Gillespie unconscious.
Lee needed the victory in a major way. He snapped a two-fight losing streak with the win. Lee switched to Firas Zihabi as his trainer and the change clearly benefited him. The Detroit native was noticeably more poised and focused. He told UFC announcer Joe Rogan he wasn’t ready to talk about another title shot, but the victory over Gillespie, especially in such spectacular fashion, puts him into a great position.
Gillespie has his first career loss, and it couldn’t have come in a worse way. The KO he suffered is the kind that can change your life, or at least your career. Hell need a good amount of time to recover physically, and perhaps emotionally. As Sugar Ray Leonard once said, you play football, basketball and baseball, you don’t play [fighting].
