
# Microsoft brings OneNote 2016 desktop app back to life with new dark mode

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:26:00+00:00**

Author: **Tom Warren**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/4/20947729/microsoft-onenote-2016-desktop-app-dark-mode-support-download)

Microsoft has changed its mind on killing off the OneNote 2016 desktop app. The software maker released Office 2019 without any updates to the desktop version of OneNote, instead relying on the separate Universal Windows App for Windows 10. “We are continuing mainstream support for OneNote 2016 beyond October 2020, so that you can continue using the version of OneNote that works best for you,” explains a blog post from the OneNote team.
This means OneNote 2016 will be supported until October 14th 2025 (in extended support). Microsoft is even changing the way OneNote is installed as a result. Starting in March, Office 365 installs that include desktop apps will install the desktop OneNote 2016 version. You can also manually download OneNote 2016 from Microsoft’s site.
The desktop OneNote app is also getting a new dark mode option for both Office 365 subscribers and Office 2019 users this week. “Using OneNote in this mode can improve readability in low light environments, increase legibility of the user interface as well as your notes, provide better contrast, and reduce eye strain,” claims Microsoft.
It’s surprising to see Microsoft reverse course on OneNote, but it’s clear that end users simply preferred the desktop app to the company’s UWP app. The original dream of Microsoft’s UWP apps has been dead for some time, and OneNote is simply the latest example of Microsoft going back to desktop apps over its UWP alternatives.
