
# 6 Chiefs Players Linked With New Deals At Naturena

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:13:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/there-are-up-to-six-kaizer-chiefs-players-being-linked-with-new-deals-at-naturena/666874)

Kaizer Chiefs are expected to have a busy few months with regards to contract extensions, with six players at the club currently linked with new deals. 
As reported in this week’s edition of Soccer Laduma, Chiefs current number one shot-stopper, Daniel Akpeyi, will see his contract expire on June 30 2020, although, Siya sources have indicated that he could commit to a new deal before then. 
However, it’s more than Akpeyi in their goalkeeping department who has been mentioned with regards to a new contract.

        
          Read more: Pitso: I Was Benni’s Biggest Fan!
        
      
Itumeleng Khune is yet to sign a new deal with Amakhosi, despite sources indicating in February this year that the player had agreed to a new deal in principle. 
Here are four other players at Chiefs who are currently linked with new deals:

        George Maluleka:
      
Maluleka is yet to sign a new contract with Amakhosi. He will also see his contract come to an end on June 30 2020.

        Njabulo Blom:
      
Despite Blom’s current deal set to run until 2023, according to sources, there is talk of an improved deal for Blom at Naturena after the starlet proved himself in the first team.

        Bernard Parker and Daniel Cardoso:
      
According to the information made available to the Siya crew, both Parker and Cardoso’s current deal expires on June 30 2020, however Chiefs do have an added one-year option set on both their contracts, with an indication that exercising both options is expected to be a formality.
However, there could potentially be a whole new deal on the cards for either one of them.

        Who of the aforementioned players would you like to see sign a new deal? Let us know in the comment section below. 
      
