
# Here’s all you need to know about the wonder benefits of ginseng tea

Published at: **2019-11-01T02:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/food-news/heres-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-wonder-benefits-of-ginseng-tea/articleshow/71838491.cms)

If there’s one thing that can instantly lift up your mood, then it’s got to be tea. Our love for tea is such that it is not just a beverage but rather it is an emotion! In fact, one sip of chai can make you forget all the agonies of life.
However, choice of tea is pretty subjective, many people are fond of milk based tea whereas some prefer black or green tea. Many people find the taste as well as aroma so enticing that they go for exotic teas. Interestingly, too much of everything is harmful for health and the same is the thing with tea. Drinking too much tea can also take a toll on your digestive system and lead to bloating and discomfort.
What is ginseng tea? Off late, with the growing enthusiasm to stay fit and healthy people are gradually moving towards healthy options such as green tea, decaf tea, chamomile tea and ginseng tea.This health trend has convinced people to try all the best possible options that help in keeping them healthy as well as active, one such tea variant is ginseng tea. This popular Korean tea is known for it’s amazing health benefits. Read on to know more about this tea!

        Here’s how it is good for health
      
Ginseng Tea helps in boosting energy and also helps in nerve relaxation. Moreover, it helps in managing the cholesterol level and reduces blood sugar. In fact the daily consumption of this tea can remarkably improve cognitive health. According to Amit Goel, Co-Founder, National Food and Beverages, Ginseng tea is good for health and can make for a healthy have introduced alternative to regular tea. Ginseng is a perennial herb, which is extracted out of the ginseng plant’s root and is believed to have wonder health benefits. Here’s why adding to your diet is a good idea.

        Rich source of antioxidants
      
Ginseng Tea is known to be power-packed with several beneficial components like essential oils and vitamin (B1, B2, B12 and C) . It has numerous benefits like it keeps away free radicals in the body and prevents the cells from damage. It is also very good for the skin as it ensures the skin is clear and flawless.

        Fights sleep disorders
      
Ginseng Tea has healing benefits for the body which calms the mind of the person and relaxes the body. It treats sleep disorder while working on increasing body's metabolism and immunity.

        Aids weight loss and improves the immune system
      
The Ginseng Tea is known to have its benefits for boosting the immune system of the body. It even helps in weight loss in effect to the effective metabolism. It is very essential to couple the encouraging immunity with a healthy diet and light workout to experience visible results on the body. This tea really helps in strengthening the immune system and averts several unwanted problems in the body.
Lowers blood sugar, manages cholesterol Ginseng Tea helps in regulating blood sugar levels in the body. It even manages and upkeeps in averting the toxins from the blood while cleansing it. It even keeps a check on the cholesterol levels and ensures proper heart health. It even is effective in purifying blood and thus, it essential to consume it on a regular basis.
Helps in improving the energy levels Ginseng has been very effective in battling unnecessary tiredness from the body while ensuring boosted energy levels throughout the day. The presence of polysaccharides and oligopeptides help in producing higher energy production in cells while lowering the oxidative stress in the body.
