
# Greg Hardy Fights On Same UFC Card As Domestic Violence Survivor Jessica-Rose Clark

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/06/greg-hardy-fights-on-same-ufc-card-as-domestic-violence-survivor-jessica-rose-clark/)

When the UFC decided to get into the Greg Hardy business, it did not sit well with Jessica-Rose Clark, who was 2-0 in the UFC when Hardy signed with the promotion.Clark had good reason to be upset with the UFC offering a contract to Hardy. She is a survivor of domestic violence perpetrated by her former fiancé, MMA fighter Julian Wallace.
In telling her story to the Daily Mail, Clark said Wallace kicked her in the head while wearing boots, elbowed her in the head and put her in a chokehold after Clark brought home the wrong noodles for his dinner in April 2016. Clark said she was able to break free, but Wallace caught her and then kneed her in the ribs. 
In September 2016, Wallace pleaded guilty to one count of assault occasioning actual bodily harm and one count of intentionally choking with recklessness. Wallace was sentenced to 15 months in jail for the first charge and seven months for the second. Magistrate Margaret Quinn suspended those sentences and said, Wallace had a "very difficult background' and appeared to be a person of 'good character'."
Wallace winked and blew a kiss at the media as his sentence was read and then placed the blame on Clark.
Speaking about Wallace in 2018 on the "Phonebooth Fighting" podcast Clark said, "They gave him his second chance, and I'm a firm believer that someone who is capable of going as far as he went with me – and I know he's been further with other women before I met him – he's not going to change. He can do all the convincing and all the lying in the world, and he can convince you that he's a really good person. But who he is at his core is someone who's capable and willing to do stuff like that."
Clark then said she had the same feeling about Hardy, who was found guilty of assault of a woman in a bench trial in 2014. Those charges were dismissed on appeal and later expunged after the woman stopped cooperating with the prosecution. 
"What stops (Hardy) from going and doing it to the next girlfriend? I promise you that wasn't the first girlfriend that he did that to," said Clark. "But he didn't get punished for that one, either. He didn't get punished for the first ones, and he didn't get punished for that one, and now he's going to be televised on one of the largest broadcasts in the world, for one of the most popular sports in the world. What's stopping him from doing it to every girl that comes into contact with him?"
All of this brings us to Saturday's UFC Fight Night 163 fight card, which takes place in Moscow, Russia. Hardy and Clark are both booked for the event. That booking marks the second time in 2019 that the UFC has placed Hardy on a card with a woman who is a survivor of domestic violence. The first time was for Hardy's debut in January when the promotion put him on the same card as Rachael Ostovich. 
Ostovich suffered a fractured orbital bone when her husband, Arnold Berdon, allegedly attacked her in the early morning hours of November 18, 2018. Berdon pleaded no contest to the charges in May of that year. He was sentenced to four years probation.
UFC president Dana White took a lot of heat for the booking, which he defended. 
"Obviously when we did this fight, I wouldn't have done that without talking to Rachael first," White said. "And I did, and she was awesome about it. She said, 'Listen, his story isn't my story. Everybody's story is different, and I believe in second chances. I have no problem fighting on the card with this guy, and this guy's never done anything to me.'"
White's defense was weak and he was also wrong. Hardy had already had a second chance when the Dallas Cowboys signed him. Hardy's MMA career is his third chance. 
Hardy is a late replacement for Saturday's card, but that doesn't make the optics any better for the promotion. 
With this booking, one has to wonder if the UFC considered Clark's feelings on the matter or reached out to her to see if she was okay with the booking. The media made a point of grilling White the first time this happened and it should do so again in this case, especially since Clark openly spoke up about her displeasure with the UFC signing Hardy at all. 
Clark faces Pannie Kianzad on the prelims of Saturday's event. Hardy meets Alexander Volkov in the co-main event.
UFC Fight Night 163 takes place Saturday at CSKA Arena in Moscow. The entire card streams on ESPN+.
I reached out to the UFC for comment. The promotion has not replied. 
