
# Benni: I'm disappointed to end my time at CT City

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/benni-im-disappointed-to-end-my-time-at-the-ct-city-20191104)

Cape Town - South African soccer legend Benni McCarthy finally broke his silence after Absa Premiership side Cape Town City shocked the public in sacking the 41-year-old as head coach.
In single Twitter post, McCarthy said: "I'm disappointed to end my time at the club but I would like to nevertheless thank the club & particularly the players,the fans and the community of Cape Town for their support and commitment over the last two years. I'm proud of my time at the club and wish them all the best." 
McCarthy was entrusted with the head coach role in June 2017 following the departure of Eric Tinkler to SuperSport United.
The former Bafana Bafana striker leaves the Citizens with the MTN8 title as his only piece of silverware during the 2018/19 season while also ensuring a fourth-place finish in the country's top flight league.
City have confirmed that assistant coach Vasili Manousakis will keep an eye over the squad on an interim basis as the club finalises the first teams new mentor.
Meanwhile, McCarthy has opted to remain mum as to what his next move will be as he has previously been touted with taking charge of Bafana Bafana and Orlando Pirates in the past.
The national men's soccer team have already appointed Molefi Ntseki as coach while the Buccaneers are under Rhulani Mokwena's guidance on an interim basis.
City are back in action on Wednesday as they welcome Polokwane City to Cape Town Stadium.
Kick-off is at 19:30.
