
# Cops, lawyers clash at Tis Hazari Court complex, police vehicles vandalised

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:20:00+00:00**

Author: **Press Trust of India**

Original: [Business-Standard](https://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/clash-between-cops-advocates-at-tis-hazari-court-police-vehicles-vandalised-119110200641_1.html)

Lawyers and police personnel clashed at Tis Hazari Court complex on Saturday afternoon during which nine police vehicles were vandalised, officials said. Lawyers alleged that two of their colleagues were injured, including one in police firing, but the police denied that it had opened fire. Bar Associations condemned the incident and called a one-day strike across all district courts in the national capital on November 4.
Secretary of Tis Hazari Bar Association Jaiveer Singh Chauhan told PTI that a lawyer's car allegedly hit a police jail van following which an argument broke out between him and the police.
"He was then taken inside a lockup and beaten up badly. The SHO came but was not allowed inside. The district judges of the central and west district, along with six other judges went there but were unable to let the lawyer out," Chauhan alleged.
He further claimed that after about 20 minutes, the police fired four rounds of bullets while the judges were leaving the spot. He claimed that one of the lawyers, Ranjeet Singh Malik, who was protesting outside along with others, suffered a bullet injury. The injured lawyers were rushed to St. Stephen's hospital here, he said.
"The police manhandled the lawyers. This was an incident of complete negligence by the police," Chauhan alleged.
