
# Motherwell hit major financial milestone as fan ownership model continues to reap rewards

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:41:01+00:00**

Author: **Liam Bryce, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/liam-bryce/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/motherwell-hit-major-financial-milestone-20791041)

Motherwell have announced the club has paid off its debt to former owners John Boyle and Les Hutchison.
The Fir Park club, currently riding high in the Premiership , transitioned to a fan-ownership model in 2016 and has been settling an outstanding balance ever since.
But now, having cleared over £1.5million owed to Boyle and Hutchison, the club is looking to the future under majority interest of the Well Society.
Effective transfer business has been pinpointed as essential in balancing the books, news the club has declared a "significant milestone" in its long-term plan for prosperity.
The only outstanding debt - around £80,000 - remains to five supporters and chairman Jim McMahon hailed the development as a "remarkable feat".
He said: "From the moment the Well Society took over the majority interest in Motherwell Football Club, our collective energy has been firmly focused on ensuring the club is sustainable on a medium to long-term basis.
"A key part of that has been eliminating the debt we inherited and we have now almost achieved that. For the club to have paid back such a significant amount in just over two years is a remarkable feat.
“I want to thank those who have worked so hard to help us achieve that, including chief executive Alan Burrows, the management, coaching and recruitment staff, the current board of directors at the club, as well as the Well Society board, members and Motherwell supporters.
“I also thank John Boyle and Les Hutchison for their support over the years.
“It has been a collective effort, helped enormously by everyone working together, on and off the park, towards the same common goal. I would also like to thank the individuals who continue to support the club with the small amount left to repay in soft loans.”
Motherwell 's early season form sees them tucked behind Celtic and Rangers in third, prompting speculation boss Stephen Robinson could be headhunted by Hearts .
The Jambos are searching for a new manager following Craig Levein's departure but Robinson is taking no notice of bookies odds, which placed him as odds on favourite on Friday.
Ahead of Saturday's home clash against Livingston, he said: "Listen, I solely concentrate on Motherwell. We have a big game on Saturday and that's my sole focus.
"We are doing well and we have to make sure we stay in that position and we have to be on top of our game to do that."
 
