
# How To Prepare For Any Potential Scenario – In Climate, Business, Careers Or Our Personal Lives

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Joan Michelson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joanmichelson2/2019/11/02/how-to-prepare-for-any-potential-scenario--in-climate-business-careers-or-our-personal-lives/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

The only thing certain is uncertainty. This is true in our careers, our businesses, in preparing your community for the impact of climate change, or in our personal lives.  
Since we do not know for sure what will happen, how do we possibly prepare?
One planning methodology is centuries old, and it’s called “scenario planning,” according to Dr. Nardia Haigh, who has studied this kind of planning for many years, including for her new book, Scenario Planning for Climate Change. She even helps her students apply it to their career decisions. Haigh is tenured Associate Professor of Management at the University of Massachusetts Boston.
“Scenario planning has been around since the 1600’s,” Haigh told me, “yet it remains a cutting-edge approach…(and) is a very transferable way to try to prepare for the future.”
To be prepared and make the best decisions, we need to consider all kinds of things that might drive the outcome, and how likely they are to occur. We saw the potential hazards of not including all the “drivers” starkly this week when Climate Central’s industrious scientists revealed that the data leaders and business owners have been using to determine how they can best prepare their communities and businesses from the consequences of climate change has been incomplete.  Previous data had left out the impact of elevation, and as a result, millions more people around the globe are at risk of sea-level rise than previously thought.
So, how can we avoid this happening in our own planning?  

        What is “scenario planning”?
      
Dr. Haigh said, “scenario planning…is really about trying to think, what could the future look like? And, how can we adapt and prepare for whatever the future might hold? You do that by identifying what are the underlying drivers? What’s going to shape the future one way or the other?”  
She described her recommended methodology for doing so to me as follows, using the example of a fictitious “Localbank” doing climate resilience planning:
1st:  Identify the “focal question” and “the time horizon”:  The focal question in this example for Localbank would be, “how might Localbank be affected by climate change in 25 years. She suggests starting with 25 years, because “it blows people’s minds,” and is generally in everyone’s lifetime.
2nd: Identify the potential drivers: For example, what climate change related factors could affect Localbank in the future? These might include sea-level rise, elevation, weather, storm surge, and other physical things.
3rd: Identify other drivers: These less obvious drivers might include regulations being proposed or trending (such as states’ renewable energy standards or building code changes), technologies (including those in early stages) and even “social movements,” such as Greta Thunberg’s movement that has inspired employees to protest their employers’ dependence on fossil fuels.
The common thing among all these drivers, is that no one entity has control over any of them, she emphasized.
4th: Rate and rank the drivers: Haigh suggests rating these drivers by the level of impact they are likely to have (such as the potential to wipe out your coastal home or manufacturing plant). Identify the two drivers that rank at the top.
5th: Develop four potential scenarios based on those top two drivers: “So, we’re creating four potential versions of the future, and that helps us develop really rigorous strategies,” she explained.  This doesn’t mean you ignore the other drivers; those likely play a role in all the proposed scenarios.
6th: Develop a set of strategic options:  These strategic options will prepare you regardless of which scenario occurs. They will also help you in real time, Haigh emphasized, because they will “equip you with the tools to figure out which scenario might be unfolding as time progresses.”
7th: Identify and watch the “warning signs”: A key element in tracking in real time which scenario seems to be happening, she said, is to identify a certain set of “warning signs” – such as, sea-level rise or storm surge or the progress of regulations in other states – and to measure and monitor them over time to see which of your potential scenarios might be occurring, or if a completely different and unexpected scenarios is occurring.
Haigh pointed out that “you can’t negotiate with any of these drivers,” you just have to deal with what happens.
Then, you can allocate your resources according to your scenario planning and priorities. She explained more about that in our interview on my podcast, Green Connections Radio.
In your career, it might be that your company goes out of business, gets wiped out by a hurricane or unexpected storm surge, or the leadership or industry goes through a massive transformation, or even that your spouse or partner is offered a great job in another city or country, as happened to a guest on my podcast, Bonnie Data. (Listen to how Datta dealt with it and reinvented herself, opened the door to an entirely new career. Or read about it on Forbes.com.)
At least you’ll be as prepared and focused as you can be for whatever happens, and that’s a huge advantage.
