
# Contract flow, consistent earnings growth seen for Serba Dinamik

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:25:44+00:00**

Author: **RHB Research Institute**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/contract-flow-consistent-earnings-growth-seen-serba-dinamik)

Serba Dinamik Holdings Bhd(Nov 5, RM4.29)Maintain buy with a higher target price (TP) of RM5.04: We remain upbeat about Serba Dinamik Holdings Bhd after our site visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Business operations in the UAE should continue to anchor growth in the Middle East. The vertical expansion into parts manufacturing, in our view, will lift its operations and maintenance (O&M) margins in the long run. Overall, consistent earnings growth, backed by robust order book, coupled with contract flow remains key share price catalysts.
We recently visited Serba Dinamik’s business operations in the UAE, which was the third largest revenue contributor (20%) in the first half of 2019 (1H19). These workshops are also used to support other business operations in the Middle East, Central and South Asia as well as Africa. The management expects further growth in the Middle East, especially in the UAE, driven by continuous spending by Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (Adnoc) and wider product offerings. In the longer run, we believe Serba Dinamik has the potential to deepen its footing in the UAE riding on upcoming Adnoc-led petrochemical projects (worth US$3 billion [RM12.4 billion] to US$5 billion each) and likely to fetch attractive internal rate of returns of more than 15%.
Forty per cent of Serba Dinamik’s pumps are sourced from its UK-based wholly-owned subsidiary Quantum Pump Ltd, with the remaining pumps sourced externally. Post-acquisition of a 49% stake in Al Sagar Engineering Group LLC and Al Sagar National Establishment in April 2018, Serba Dinamik is able to distribute more pumps in the UAE.
We also visited the oilfield centre in Ras Al Khaimah, which facilitates rotating equipment maintenance, repairs and overhauling (MRO). It is supported by Serba Dinamik’s 20%-owned associates, OMT and La Rapida SA, to manufacture parts and components in strict compliance with customer specifications. Such vertical expansion will allow Serba Dinamik to expand its margins for its existing businesses and tap into this fairly profitable market.
The company’s order book remains solid at RM9.7 billion (potentially RM11 billion including estimated work orders from master service agreements) and it is targeting to hit RM13 billion to RM14 billion by end-2020 backed by a robust tender book of RM16 billion. Bintulu Integrated Energy Service Hub is expected to be fully operational by the first quarter of 2020 (1Q20) while Pengerang Eco-Industrial Park is at 40% completion, slated for completion by 4Q20.
Separately, Serba Dinamik is also targeting to generate RM150 million from its IT-related business in financial year 2019 (FY19) (versus 1H19: RM40 million). With all the aggressive growth plans in the pipeline, we expect another US$200 million to US$300 million sukuk drawdown for both working capital and capital expenditure purposes amid net gearing of 0.65 times as at 2Q19.
We raise our FY19F (forecast) to FY21F earnings by 3%-6% in view of stronger margins from the O&M division. Our FY19F-FY21F earnings growth of 9%-16% is still relatively conservative versus the management’s target of 15%-20%. Post-earnings adjustment and rolling our valuation base year to FY20, our TP is raised to RM5.04, pegged to 15 times FY20F price-earnings ratio. — RHB Research Institute, Nov 5
