
# Toronto Raptors Doing Just Fine Without Kawhi Leonard

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Curtis Rush**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/curtisrush/2019/11/02/toronto-raptors-doing-just-fine-without-kawhi-leonard/)

The Toronto Raptors have answered the most pressing of questions as the calendar turned to November. They are doing just fine without Kawhi Leonard.And despite initial concerns, there doesn’t appear to be any sign of an NBA championship hangover, although the season is young.
Much of the reason rests on the spectacular performance to date of Pascal Siakam, who looks like he’s on his way to becoming the superstar he was projected to become.
In some eyes, Siakam is even performing better than expected, with so much pressure on him to make up for the loss of Leonard to free agency.
Since the 25-year-old forward signed his four-year, $160 million extension before the season, the native of Cameroon has exploded both as a scorer and defender.
“Just like Kawhi back in the day, he got his ring and now he's becoming superstar,” NBA columnist Shane Young wrote on Twitter.
Said NBA writer Vincent Goodwill: “Pascal Siakam has taken his game to a level I didn’t expect.”
Siakam, who was named the league’s Most Improved Player last year, is showing versatility in the early going. He’s hitting corner 3’s, he’s using post-ups and scoring off pick-and-rolls and jumpers off the dribble.
Going into Saturday night’s game against the Bucks in Milwaukee, Siakam had poured in 30 or more points on three occasions, which had tied him with Leonard, James Harden and Kemba Walker for the most in the NBA this season. In fact, Siakam joined DeMar DeRozan as the only players in Toronto’s history to have at least three 30-point outings in the first five games of the regular season.
The Raptors were rolling along with Siakam, putting up a 4-1 record heading into the clash with Milwaukee and a marquee matchup with perhaps the best player in the league in Giannis Antetokounmpo.
The Raptors have used the same starting lineup in their first five games to open the season, with Siakam, OG Anunoby, Marc Gasol, Kyle Lowry and Fred VanVleet.
Siakam is drawing raves early on, as can be expected. Siakam is impressing on defense too. Although he’s a 6’ 9” power forward, he is drawing tough defensive assignments. In the season opener against the New Orleans Pelicans, Siakam was credited by NBA.com with limiting guard Jrue Holiday to four points over the 20-plus possessions in which they were matched together.
The reserves are stepping up too. Serge Ibaka scored a season-high 19 points in 32 minutes against the Detroit Pistons on Wednesday and he has now led or tied the bench in scoring in every game this season.
OG Anunoby has also been a revelation. Against Detroit, he scored 13 points and matched his career high in rebounds for the third time this season with eight. Anunoby has started every game this season after starting just six times during his sophomore campaign.
But apart from the offensive numbers, the Raptors under coach Nick Nurse are continuing their pursuit of being hard to score against. Going into Saturday night’s game against the Bucks, Toronto ranked first in the NBA in opponent field-goal percentage (.390) and they have already held their opponent to under 40% shooting from the floor three times this season.
Since the beginning of the NBA lottery in 1985, the Raptors became the first team to capture the title without a single lottery pick on their NBA Finals roster. This is a team that has shown resilience and a belief in each other.
Toronto may be weakened on paper without Kawhi Leonard and Danny Green. But the Raptors’ strength is that, without those two superstars, the lesser-known names are taking full advantage of their chance to shine, with Siakam being the shiniest light of all.
