
# Social Security No-Match Letters: What Businesses Need To Know

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Stuart Anderson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/stuartanderson/2019/11/06/social-security-no-match-letters-what-businesses-need-to-know/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2803169694&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

Employers around the country are receiving – or already have received – “no-match” letters from the Social Security Administration (SSA). How should companies respond when such a letter arrives? To understand the practical and policy implications of no-match letters, I interviewed Michael Neifach, office managing principal of the Washington, D.C. Region office of Jackson Lewis P.C. From July 2007 through January 2009, Michael served as General Counsel of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). (For further background, the National Foundation for American Policy produced a report on no-match letters by Amy M. Nice.)
Stuart Anderson: What is a no-match letter?
Michael Neifach: No-match letters are issued by the Social Security Administration indicating that information on a wage and tax statement (Form W-2) does not match SSA records. In March 2019, after several years not sending no-match letters, SSA began mailing notifications to employers identified as having at least one name and Social Security Number (SSN) combination on Form W-2 that do not match SSA records.
The letter advises employers that corrections are needed for SSA to properly post its employee’s earnings to the correct record. Keep in mind that there are multiple reasons why a no-match may be generated, including error transcribing name or SSN, employee name change (after marriage, for example), clerical error made on a Form W-2 or Form W-4.
Anderson: How has government policy on no-match letters changed over the years under different administrations?
Neifach: There is a long history of no-match letters. SSA first issued no-match letters to individuals with mismatch information beginning in 1973. These were called DECOR or Decentralized Correspondence letters. From 1993 through 2005, SSA also sent no-match letters to employers with 10 or more employees whose name and SSN information as reported on W-2s did not match SSA records. These were called EDCOR or Educational Correspondence letters. Both letters were strictly for information purposes.  
Under the Bush Administration, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) issued a proposed rule in 2006 setting out steps an employer should take upon receipt of a no-match letter. The regulation provided that failure to follow up with a no-match letter within an established time frame may result in a finding that the employer had “constructive knowledge” an employee was unauthorized to work. However, before the rule became final, a federal district court issued a preliminary injunction stopping the government from proceeding with implementation of the final No-Match rule. With the ongoing litigation, SSA discontinued issuing EDCOR no-match letters to employers in 2007 for tax year 2006.
In 2009, the Obama Administration rescinded the No-Match rule altogether. In August 2012, SSA discontinued issuance of DECOR no-match letters.
Anderson: What has happened under the Trump administration?
Neifach: In the summer 2018, the Social Security Administration announced that, for the first time since 2007, it would resume issuing EDCOR or Educational Correspondence letters in spring 2019. In March 2019, SSA issued approximately 570,000 no-match letters to employers. This first group was issued to employers who filed 2018 W-2s electronically.
Unlike previous no-match letters, which were targeted only to employers with at least 10 employees with mismatched W-2 information, these letters went to all employers with even one mismatched employee record. Also, unlike previous years, the new letters list only the overall number of affected employees, rather than the names or mismatched information. Employers are directed to register with SSA’s online database for specific information.
In October 2019, SSA began issuing no-match letters for employers who filed paper 2018 W-2s.
Anderson: How concerned should companies be if they receive a no-match letter?
Neifach: For a number of reasons, employers need to take receipt of a no-match letter seriously. First, if SSA is unable to match the name and SSN reported by the employer on the W-2, SSA cannot properly credit earnings to the employee’s record. This may mean the employee is not able to receive full benefits due.
Second, employers are required by law to provide accurate W-2 information. Employers who file W-2s with incorrect information and then disregard a no-match letter may be fined by the IRS. On the other hand, employers who follow up with the no-match as instructed by SSA likely will fall within the “reasonable cause” exception, and not otherwise subject to an IRS penalty.
Finally, while receipt of a no-match letter does not mean the employee is in the U.S. illegally and is unauthorized to work, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) routinely asks employers as part of the an I-9 audit whether they have received no-match letters.
Anderson: What, if any, immigration implications could there be when a company receives a no-match letter?
Neifach: As SSA itself makes clear, a name and SSN no-match is not an indication of an employee’s work authorization or immigration status. The Bush Administration sought to change that with the No-Match rule.
Under the No-Match rule, an employer failing to follow up with a no-match letter was presumed to have “constructive knowledge” if the employee turned out to be unauthorized to work in the U.S. However, that rule was never implemented and was subsequently withdrawn.
Now, receipt of a no-match letter without more is not indicative of the employee’s authorization to work legally in the U.S. and would not support a “constructive knowledge” finding. However, because “constructive knowledge” of unlawful employment potentially involves a number of factors, not just receipt of a no-match letter, it is important for employers to carefully consider the totality of the circumstances before deciding what, if any, immigration implications there may be with receipt of a no-match.
Anderson: How do companies avoid taking actions that could be considered discriminatory toward employees?
Neifach: Employers need to make sure they understand what receipt of a no-match means, and what it doesn’t mean. It means that the name and/or SSN included on the W-2 does not match SSA records. That’s it. It does not mean the employee intentionally provided false information and it does not mean the employee is in the U.S. illegally and is not authorized to work.
Employers should not terminate or discipline an employee solely because of a no-match letter. That includes changing work assignment or putting an employee in unpaid leave status pending resolution of the no-match. Similarly, an employer should not require an employee subject to a no-match letter to bring in additional proof of immigration or work authorization status. Employers need to make sure that all employees are treated the same, without regard to citizenship, immigration status or national origin.
Anderson: What practical steps do you recommend companies take if they receive a no-match letter?
Neifach: First, follow up as the letter you receive and the SSA itself advises. Second, compare the SSA information with the individual’s other employment records. Is there a typographical error? If so, correct it through SSA’s Business Services Online (BSO) portal.
Third, If the employer’s records match, notify the employee in writing and ask the employee to check the name and number on his or her Social Security card. If your records were incorrect, resubmit the corrections through the Business Services Online portal. If the information on the card matches the no-match letter, notify the employee in writing to resolve the no-match with SSA.
Fourth, it is important to document all steps taken to comply with the no-match requirements, including conversations with the employees involved. If during the course of following up, there are indications of fraud or the employee appears to indicate he or she may not be authorized to work in the U.S., employers should contact legal counsel for additional guidance.
Anderson: What do you see happening on the horizon on no-match letters and immigration enforcement?
Neifach: At this point, the government’s full intention behind resumption of the no-match letters is not completely clear. In response to congressional inquiries, SSA clearly specified that the no-match letters are educational only. The letters are intended to alert employers of a no-match and to provide instruction on how to improve accuracy of wage reporting.
Moreover, because information included on the W-2, including the no-match letter data, is considered Federal Tax Information under section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code, SSA is prohibited from sharing this information with other agencies, except in narrow circumstances. Such circumstances include where information is requested by law enforcement on an individual already identified for legitimate law enforcement purposes. No-match information is not to be shared broadly to generate leads or develop I-9 audit targets.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement continues to take a keen interest in no-match information. Even before SSA resumed issuing no-match letters earlier this year, ICE regularly asked employers about receipt of any no-match related information. With resumption of the letters, expect ICE to be even more interested in how employers respond to no-match letters and whether there may be other indicators of knowing-hire violations.
Looking further, even if we do not see reissuance of the No-Match regulation by ICE, I expect some guidance will be forthcoming from ICE or Department of Homeland Security describing the intersection of no-match letters with immigration compliance. The only sure thing at this point is that employers should be prepared to receive these letters again in 2020.
