
# Rajkummar Rao on his Bollywood struggle: I met a lot of people, faced a lot of rejection

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:01:27+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/rajkummar-rao-on-his-bollywood-struggle-i-met-a-lot-of-people-faced-a-lot-of-rejection/articleshow/71879189.cms)

Rajkummar Rao has to his credit stellar performances but it has not been an easy entry in Bollywood for the actor. Speaking about his struggle in the film industry, Rajkummar Rao told Filmfare, “My struggle started in Delhi. I hail from Gurgaon and I used to travel in really crowded buses or sometimes cycle from Gurgaon to Mandi House to do theatre. My struggle started from there. When I landed in Bombay for two years, there was a lot of struggle. I would meet a lot of people and face a lot of rejection. It wasn't really an easy route.”
Despite having achieved a lot of success and being referred to as a hitmaker, Rajkummar doesn’t let fame go to his head. Speaking about stardom he added, “I don't give it importance. I am very happy because I get a lot of love whenever I go anywhere now. That love is irreplaceable. A lot of gratitude for that. Apart from that when I am on sets or at home, I don't think of anything else. I just be myself. I am a very normal guy and leading a very normal life. I am just doing my job and nothing else.”
Rajkummar Rao was last seen in ‘Made In China’, which released during Diwali. Up next, the actor will be seen in social drama ‘Turram Khan’ and horror entertainer ‘Roohi Afza’.
