
# Craig Levein grills Craig Levein with hilarious but ultimately brutal consequences

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Michael Gannon, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/michael-gannon/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/craig-levein-grills-craig-levein-20767735)

These are troubling times at Tynecastle and Record Sport has managed to get access to the minutes from a high-level meeting in Gorgie yesterday between director of football Craig Levein and under-pressure manager Craig Levein. DIRECTOR OF FOOTBALL CRAIG: Hi Craig, I think we need to talk. MANAGER CRAIG: You’re probably right. DOF: I know it’s Hallowe'en but maybe you should take off the mask. MANAGER: I’m not wearing a mask. DOF: Oh right, thought you looked a bit haunted. MANAGER: You’re not looking so great yourself. DOF: Aye, fair enough. Anyway. I’ve been looking over the results. It’s not great Craig. This time last year we were sitting top of the league and in the Betfred Cup semi-finals. Walter Kidd was talking about winning the league. MANAGER: That was a bit much. DOF: Aye, true. But 13 wins out of 16, we were flying. What the hell has happened? I’ve just looked and we’ve only won 15 games out of 52 since. We’re even worse than Hibs.
MANAGER: Don’t worry, natural order will be restored soon. DOF: Ian Cathro got his books for less than this. MANAGER: You appointed him. DOF: Oh aye. MANAGER: You appointed me as well. DOF: Erm... MANAGER: Listen, we’ve had injuries. We’ll be okay. DOF: The fans are revolting. MANAGER: What’s new? They hounded Robbie Neilson when he was second in the table. DOF: Neilson, who I appointed. MANAGER: True. But Cathro though... DOF: This is not about me. MANAGER: It is a wee bit. You’re in charge of the football department. You said it was your fault when Cathro got his Del Boy Trotters. DOF: Did I? MANAGER: Yep. You said, ‘I made the decision last time and Ann and the board listened to me, so it is on me’. DOF: It does sound familiar. MANAGER: You also said the results weren’t good enough. In fact... let me check my notes... You said, ‘Everything Ian was doing was fantastic but if your players don’t feel comfortable and confident taking the ball then there is an issue.’” DOF: Right. So you’re saying there’s an issue? MANAGER: Nothing I can’t handle. DOF: Ann’s getting worried. Someone’s spray painted ‘Levein out’ on the Hearts’ Foundation Plaza. It’s going to be a nightmare cleaning up that mess. MANAGER: I’ve got a big brush but it’s broken right now. It’ll be ready to scrub it out in a few months. DOF: We don’t have a few months. We’ve got Rangers on Sunday. MANAGER: In the Betfred Cup semi-final? See, more success. DOF: What if we get a doing?
MANAGER: Won’t happen. Big Uche Ikpeazu will give them hell. DOF: He didn’t give St Johnstone hell. Or St Mirren. Or Livingston. Or Ross County. He couldn't even score against East Fife. MANAGER: It’s not all about goals. DOF: Just as well, we’ve only scored 10 goals in 11 league games. We didn’t even have a shot on target in Perth, and they’ve been guff as well this year. MANAGER: The players are not good enough. DOF: You signed them. MANAGER: You let me sign them. DOF: Jeez, this is like Fight Club like when you find out at the end of the film the guy was punching himself in the face the entire time. MANAGER: Never seen it. DOF: Me neither. MANAGER: So who is to blame for this shambles? DOF: That’s my question. MANAGER: Oh aye. DOF: I should probably relieve you of your duties. MANAGER: I should probably relieve you of your duties. DOF: This is getting us nowhere. MANAGER: You said it. DOF: What would you do if you were the director of football and the team were bottom of the table in November and stinking the place out? MANAGER: Erm... DOF: We might need to let Ann Budge sort it. We’re going around in circles.

        CHAIRPERSON ANN BUDGE ENTERS.
      
CHAIRPERSON: What’s happening in here?
DOF: Nothing.
MANGER: Nothing.
CHAIRPERSON: This is getting ridiculous. You need to go.
DOF: Who me?
MANAGER: Who me?
CHAIRPERSON: Time's up Craig. Craig, you are going as well, but you can hang around until the end of the season.
DOF: To help pick a new manager?
CHAIRPERSON: Aye.
DOF: What about this guy Craig Levein?
CHAIRPERSON: Oh for God’s sake...
