
# The Highs and Lows of the (Barely) Live Little Mermaid

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:38:37+00:00**

Author: **Jackson McHenry, Kathryn VanArendonk, Jen Chaney**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/2019/11/little-mermaid-live-best-worst-moments.html?utm_medium=s1&utm_campaign=nym&utm_source=tw)

As it turns out, ABC’s live and animated production of The Little Mermaid was a lot less live and a lot more animated than we had all come to expect. On the one hand, that’s great if you’re a big fan of the original 1989 animated movie and just wanted to watch long stretches of classic Disney animation. On the other, the live performances were restricted entirely to the movie’s songs — plus a few additions from the not-as-successful Broadway show, mostly for Prince Eric’s sake — which, as everyone watching came to realize, are pretty few and far between.
As we adjusted to the fact that Triton was only going to be a hunky animated presence, realized that Alicia Florrick’s TV son has a pretty good voice, and all became ever more grateful to Queen Latifah for actually bringing the energy required for this performance, Vulture’s crack team of undersea critics broke down the best, worst, and most baffling moments from the show. 
HIGH: There was a cute dog at the top of the show! Congrats to Prince Eric on his cute dog. That’s gotta count for something, right? —Jackson McHenry
HIGH: The fact that they used so much of that charming classic 2-D animation feels like a self-own, a subtweet of literally everything else Disney’s been doing for the past ten years. I respect it! —Rebecca Alter
LOW: I didn’t come here to watch the animated movie, folks. —Jen Chaney
LOW: I also didn’t come here to watch Disney+ commercials, folks. Although I really should have anticipated the bait and switch. —J.C.
LOW: I forgot Little Mermaid is front-loaded with these not-so-classic songs. —R.A.
HIGH: Okay, Ariel’s live aerial (get it?) swimming was pretty cool. —J.C.
LOW: So many Disney+ and Frozen II ads. Couldn’t we have some even slightly more subtle brand integration? —J.M.
LOW: Scuttle could’ve been a cute bird puppet! —R.A.
LOW: All the major character introductions were animated. How are you gonna cast Queen Latifah as Ursula and then not even let her walk onstage to be introduced as Ursula?! —Kathryn VanArendonk
LOW: The visible strings on the Ariel and Prince Eric swimming in the background onstage. —J.C.
HUH? Sebastian Shaggy was dressed as Michael Jackson for some reason. —J.C.
