
# Steve Smith's greatest strength is his ability to solve problems, feels Justin Langer

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:48:16+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/steve-smiths-greatest-strength-is-his-ability-to-solve-problems-feels-justin-langer?utm_medium=rss)


        Justin Langer is of the opinion that irrespective of the format, Steve Smith is capable of solving all kinds of problems and that is his greatest strength as a batsman. The Aussie coach has also stated that there will certainly be a far greater focus on the T20 cricket with World Cup coming up.
      
Despite never being a natural in the white-ball format as he is in Test cricket, Smith has shown an incredible amount of resolve in his recent hurray in T20Is. His 80 runs off 51 balls against Pakistan was an absolute beauty of a T20 inning and what made it even more special was the way he constructed it - taking responsibility on his shoulder and then stepped in on the accelerator when needed.
Justin Langer is affluent in praise for the former skipper saying his role is to solve problems. "He played beautifully, we know how good a player he is. He loves batting, full-stop. He wants to be out there. I think Manuka Oval is an amazing cricket ground, it was a great batting wicket and Steven (Smith) certainly took advantage," said Langer in an interview with Cricket Australia.
"Smith's greatest strength is his ability to solve problems, whether it's in Test cricket or T20 cricket. That's where he's so good at, the best players in the world do it. The best players adapt to white or red ball, or twenty-over or Test cricket," he added.
After relinquishing the No.1 position in Test cricket to Virat Kohli when he was out of the squad, Smith instantly got the bragging rights back when he claimed the position back on the back of a steller 774-run Ashes series performance. However, things are not the same in T20 cricket and he is yet to be called a stable force in it. But Langer feels that the Sydneysider has it in him to be No.1 across formats.
"Hopefully, he gets ranked one in all three formats, I think he'll be aspiring to do that. His Test series in England was incredible, his 90 (sic) in the semi-final of the World cup was incredible and the innings he played last night was sublime. He's getting better and better which is greater for Australian cricket," added Langer.
