
# LeBaron murders: Victim's dad says cartels killed two other relatives in 2009

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:31:18+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/lebaron-murders-victims-dad-says-20821313)

The father of one of the Americans killed in a bloody Mexican cartel massacre claims drug lords also murdered two of his relatives in 2009.
Nine members of the LeBaron family were slaughtered in the Mexican border state of Sonora on Monday while traveling in a convoy from the Mormon La Mora religious settlement, where they lived.
Heartbroken dad Adrián LeBaron's has now revealed that two of his nephews were also killed 10 years ago.
His daughter Rhonita Maria LeBaron and four grandchildren, including six-month-old twins, were shot dead in the latest attack.
Mothers Dawna Langford and Christina Langford Johnson were also killed, along with Ms Langford's two sons, aged three and 11.
 
Mr LeBaron's nephew, Eric, was kidnapped by cartel members in 2009, although he was released after the family refused to pay a £776,400 ransom, Mail Online reports.
Two other nephews, Benjamin and Luis, were killed months later after Benjamin spoke out about Eric's kidnapping - and Luis tried to protect his brother from the gang.
Mr LeBaron told Mail Online that the cartels 'killed innocent people to teach fear'.
 
He added: "It is not an attack against our community, what we have here is a protest.
"They are making a statement and I do not know towards who. However, they killed my daughter with that purpose.
"Just as in 2009, we did not want to pay a ransom, we have never accepted when they harass you, when they extort you. I do not tell that group, I'm telling any group that exists in our Mexico that we do not give in."
A relative, Julian LeBaron, called the incident a massacre and said some family members were burned alive.
In a text message to Reuters he wrote that four boys, two girls and three women were killed.
Several children who fled the attack were lost for hours in the countryside before being found, he said.
He added that it was unclear who carried out the attack, although the Mexican government believes drug cartels were responsible.
 
Mexican Security Minister Alfonso Durazo said the nine may have been victims of mistaken identity.
But the LeBaron extended family has often been in conflict with drug traffickers in Chihuahua and a relative of the victims said the killers surely knew who they were targeting.
Alex LeBaron said: "We've been here for more than 50 years. There's no-one who doesn't know them. Whoever did this was aware. That's the most terrifying."
All of the dead were US citizens, he told Reuters, and most also held dual citizenship with Mexico.
They were attacked while driving on backroads in a convoy of cars containing the women along with 14 children, he said.
Some were heading for Tucson airport to collect relatives.
A video posted on social media showed the charred and smoking remains of the bullet-riddled vehicle ambushed by the gunmen.
