
# Primark to open 19 new stores - see if your area will get one

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:40:46+00:00**

Author: **James Andrews, http://www.facebook.com/jameswritesmoney/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/19-new-primarks-opening-year-20813447)

In the past year 14 new Primarks opened - including the world's largest in Birmingham - and the success of these shops has seen plans stepped up for next year.
Primark owner Associated British Foods has 19 new stores planned for the coming year - at locations across the UK and even beyond it.
Chief executive George Weston said: "In the next financial year, we are planning to add a net 1 million sq ft of additional selling space."
He added: "We expect to open 19 new stores together with a number of relocations and extensions."
Primark also celebrated its 50th anniversary, as well as its 20 millionth social media follower as customers flocked to stores around the world. Sales were up 4.2%, while operating profit rose 8%.
 
"Primark marked its 50 anniversary by delivering an 8% increase in profit. 14 new stores were added across the UK and continental Europe in the year, including our largest ever store, in Birmingham," Weston said.
Despite troubles on the high street, Primark saw sales growth in the UK of 2.5% - with new offerings and plans helping out.
"We have been encouraged by our customers' reaction to our new store in Birmingham High Street which showcases our new food and beverage and beauty services in addition to our full product range," Weston said.
The new store in Birmingham introduced shoppers to a whole range of new options - from a Friends cafe to a Disney bar complete with Mickey Mouse waffles and even a mini Hogwarts - on top of the clothes.
And this success means more new stores in the next year - on top of the 14 opened in the last one.
 
It's yet another sign that where many shops are struggling to survive, Primark has proved it can not just get buy - but thrive.
Chris Field, independent retail analyst and chairman of Retail Connections, said: “Primark continues to rewrite the retail rule book and its store-focused retail strategy continues to succeed where so many currently are failing in the context of online competition.
"Primark’s results are proof to the naysayers, who are all too quick to sound the death knell for physical bricks-and-mortar stores, that with the right product proposition, the right price and the right store format that there is a future for retail on the High Street."
This is where the new stores are coming:

        New UK stores
      

        Relocated UK stores
      

        New European stores
      
There was a little sad news to go with the good for Primark, as this year also saw the death of the chain's founder, with Arthur Ryan , in July.
"My grandfather and uncle recruited Arthur to run Penneys in 1969 with only one store in Dublin," Weston said.
"He went on to build a phenomenal world-class retailer, making fashion accessible to all, and his legacy looms large as one of the great giants of retailing.
"We will all miss his larger-than-life presence, his sharp wit and his friendship."
