
# Nissan Leaf e+ TEKNA review – Electric family car has plenty of plus points

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:06:10+00:00**

Author: **Maggie Barry, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/maggie-barry/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/motoring/nissan-leaf-e-tekna-review-20828300)

THERE will be a huge number of drivers and passengers who will simply love the sound of silence in the latest Nissan Leaf e+, which merely whispers along the road.
And the Leaf makes an excellent showcase for electricity because it has substantially evolved as its Japanese maker has ploughed millions into research and development with excellent results.
The giant strides made have resulted in the car winning the Alternative Fuel category at the Scottish Car of the Year (SCOTY) Awards – voted for by the Association of Scottish Motoring Writers.
Why is the Leaf so popular? For a start, the range has been extended dramatically as the years have passed and Nissan claim you can now get almost 240 miles without having to charge your Leaf although in real terms, it’s probably nearer 168 miles.
Even so, that’s more that enough for most people’s daily use.
It looks good – the design cues owe more than a little to the company’s incredibly popular Juke and the model delivered to my driveway came with two-tone paintwork, 17in alloys and metallic blue front bumper accents to underline its environmental credentials.
Inside, it was just as smart, with a D-shaped leather steering wheel, part leather/ultrasuede heated front and rear seats and piles of connectivity.
The e+ version of the Leaf also gives you the e-pedal, an innovative feature from Nissan that ultimately allows you to drive using only the accelerator pedal.
 
All EVs are, of course, automatic. When you engage the e-pedal by pressing a button, as soon as you take your foot off the gas, the car slows down – not in a wishy-washy maybe soon way but quite intensely so that you are at a stop in a few moments.
At the same time, it is regenerating power for the car. Clever!
It does require an adjustment to your driving but once, you get used to this technology, it’s actually quite fun and it is very satisfying to see the blue regeneration dial on the instrument panel fill right up.
So you’ll soon find yourself relaxing and enjoying the likes of the eight-inch touchscreen infotainment system that includes TomTom navigation, with info on where to find public charging points, DAB radio, full smartphone integration and a Bose sound system.
Other goodies as part of the e+ TEKNA trim include automatic air con with a timer function, auto lights (including high beam) and wipers, and adaptive cruise control.
As well as lane keeping aids, there is rear cross traffic alert, blind spot warning, 360-degree view and reversing cameras, front and rear parking sensors and driver alertness warning.
And as part of what Nissan call Intelligent Mobility, the Leaf e+ is designed to acts as a mobile energy unit, storing and returning energy to your home or the grid in a future where the car is part of the cycle of power.
The Leaf e+ is a very impressive piece of technology and just shows what a future with electric cars could be like.
