
# Best electric scooter deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Painter**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/gadget/best-electric-scooter-deals-3777421/)

In a world where everything is becoming electric, it was only a matter of time before the humble kickscooter joined the electro-revolution. Electric scooters have grown in popularity in recent years and are all the rage in 2019, offering an environmentally friendly way for people to commute in busy cities while also being a sweat-free alternative to bikes.
The issue is that they can be expensive if you don’t know where to look, with some boasting a price tag of over £1000 in the UK. But, like most products on the market, there are deals to be had, and you could potentially save a bundle.  
We’ve used our expertise to scour the web and find the best electric scooter deals available right now – not just those that look good on the surface.

        Xiaomi M365From: RC GeeksWas: £399Now: £349  (£50 off) View Deal
      

        Xiaomi M365From: AmazonWas: £399Now: £374.99  (£24.01 off) View Deal
      

        Ninebot ES2From: AmazonWas: £499Now: £425  (£74 off) View Deal
      

        Otto Electric ScooterFrom: AmazonWas: £429.99Now: £299.89  (£130.10 off) View Deal
      
Ninebot Max G30From: GearbestWas: £729Now: £463.15  (£265.85 off) View Deal< >
Aside from our selection of the best deals above, we’d recommend keeping an eye on Amazon for great electric scooter deals, and if you don’t mind importing from overseas, Gearbest is another great option. Other retailers that offer deals on electric scooters include:
One of the most popular electric scooters around right now is the Xiaomi M365 scooter at £399. It’s much cheaper than many of its overseas rivals, some of which can cost well over £1000, and offers a great blend of reliability and value for money with top speeds of 15mph and a range of 18.6 miles.
It’s also popular because it’s one of very few electric scooters that you can try before you buy – if you go along to Halfords or the Xiaomi Store in Westfield London anyway.
While the M365 scooter is already great value for money, we’ve seen it on offer at discounted prices. The deals can range in value across the year, but we expect decent savings to appear in and around Black Friday 2019.
There are plenty of other electric scooters on the market, but the main issue is that unlike with most countries, it’s illegal to ride an electric scooter on public footpaths and roads in the UK – you’re only allowed to use them on private property. We’ve got more information on UK law in our electric scooter buying guide, and we’d recommend taking a read before taking the plunge.
The restrictions on UK usage means that many of the big retailers simply don’t stock them, making deals much harder to find. In situations like this, the easiest way is to head to a dedicated outdoor specialist like those mentioned above, or import one from China via sites like Gearbest. Just be warned that buying from China will make it very difficult to return if you need any repairs.
If you’ve got your heart set on an electric scooter and want to save a bit of money, these are the best deals we’ve found online.

        From: RC GeeksWas: £399Now: £349  (£50 off) View Deal
      
This is the cheapest we’ve found Xiaomi’s popular M365 electric scooter online, offering £50 off the £399 RRP. It’s a tempting offer at full price, making this an absolute steal.

        From: AmazonWas: £399Now: £374.99  (£24.01 off) View Deal
      
This Xiaomi M365 deal might not be as cheap as the offer from RC Geeks, but it’s still £24 off the RRP and Amazon’s customer services are usually top-notch if anything goes wrong.

        From: AmazonWas: £499Now: £425  (£74 off) View Deal
      
The Ninebot ES2 is much like Xiaomi’s M365 in many ways, but offers a few key differences that make it worth a little more money. You’ve got ambient LED lights to brighten the way on dark rides, IP54 water resistance and a slick design alongside a companion app that extends functionality with one-tap lock and cruise control options.

        From: AmazonWas: £429.99Now: £299.89  (£130.10 off) View Deal
      
This electric scooter may not be from a well-known brand, but with 8.5in wheels, a 15mph top speed and a companion app that allows you to lock the scooter with a tap, it’s a good price on a capable product.

        From: GearbestWas: £729Now: £463.15  (£265.85 off) View Deal
      
It’s pricier than other scooters in our roundup, but the Ninebot Max G30 boasts impressive features including an incredible 65km range, 10in tyres, a 20 percent climbing angle and IPX7 water resistance alongside an integrated twist bell and side reflectors for increased safety.
If you’ve got the money, it’s certainly worth the price – just take potential import fees into consideration.
