
# Walled garden at Moorehall in Mayo to be redeveloped

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:39:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/07/4182070-walled-garden-at-moorehall-in-mayo-to-be-redeveloped/)

THE Minister for Rural and Community Development, Michael Ring, has confirmed that he has approved €146,287 in Leader support for Carnacon Community Development Association CLG to support the redevelopment of the walled garden at Moorehall Estate.
The estate comprises 40 acres of woodland and a two acre walled garden overlooking Lough Carra.
Minister Ring said: “This is a really significant development in the regeneration of Moorehall and follows on from the recent purchase of the estate by Mayo County Council with assistance from the government.
“The magnificent two acre walled garden has fallen into disrepair and this investment will help bring it back to its former glory.
"The funding will be used to carry out the necessary site clearance, repairs to the walls and the restoration of dovecote.
"This garden is of significant historical and heritage interest and has the potential with further development to contribute to local biodiversity and tourism generation.
“This is the culmination of a significant community effort to see the walled garden in Moorehall estate restored.
"In recent years the walls have been damaged further with the falling of trees in recent storms.
"Once the structure of the walled garden has been redeveloped, I am told that the next step will be to bring the garden back to life."
Minister Ring concluded: “Leader funding provides invaluable support to a wide variety of community and enterprise initiatives in Mayo. I have now announced over €6 million in funding for more than 150 Leader funded projects in the county.”
