
# Arsenal squad confirmed for Wolves as Mesut Ozil included but Granit Xhaka omitted

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:54:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-squad-confirmed-vs-wolves-20791101)

Granit Xhaka trained with the Arsenal first team on Friday but the Gunners' captain will not play against Wolves on Saturday afternoon.
The Swiss international reacted angrily to the reaction of supporters last weekend, telling them to "f*** off" after being substituted in the 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace .
Xhaka did not play in the Carabao Cup against Liverpool in midweek, and speaking on Friday Unai Emery confirmed he won't be in action in north London against Nuno Espirito Santo's side.
“He is training normally, but like every human he feels emotions. Xhaka's issues last week need time to recover the normality with him and with us.
“Everybody will have some social media on their phone, on the internet, on the web, but really to use it is only to be intelligent.
“We can respect the people on social media, but we have to separate how much of it is real and whether every supporter is following that.
“In the stadium, is is normal when we are not winning that they respond with some criticism – and then, when you come back with a good performance, they forget that and they applaud the players.
“Our objective is to win (against Wolves), connect with the people and for the supporters to respond to us, and help us in the 90 minutes.
“Xhaka has said sorry, he gave apologies to the supporters, to everybody, and now the focus is on our next match.”
 
Mesut Ozil is set to feature, having played 65 minutes on Merseyside in midweek - his first outing since September 24.
“Yes, he will feature," confirmed Emery on Friday. "We will look at the possibility to use him again.”
Having made wholesale changes at Anfield, Emery is likely to return to something like a first choice side against Wolves.
David Luiz and Sokratis, both of whom scored against Palace, are set to return at the heart of defence, but Emery has decisions to make at full-back and in midfield - notably who steps in as Xhaka's replacement.
Reiss Nelson remains sidelined with a knee problem.
Goalkeepers: Bernd Leno, Emiliano Martinez
Defenders: Hector Bellerin, Shkodran Mustafi, Rob Holding, David Luiz, Sokratis Papastathopoulos, Calum Chambers, Sead Kolasinac, Kieran Tierney
Midfielders: Matteo Guendouzi, Lucas Torreira, Joe Willock, Dani Ceballos, Mesut Ozil, Ainsley Maitland-Niles
Forwards: Nicolas Pepe, Bukayo Saka, Alexandre Lacazette, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, Gabriel Martinelli.
