
# Liverpool free to sign Nike kit deal after Court of Appeal refuse New Balance case

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:19:12+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-free-sign-nike-kit-20790950)

New Balance’s hopes of remaining as Liverpool’s kit supplier have been ended after their appeal against the High Court’s decision was refused on Friday.
The American company faced off with the Reds in a three-day trial over the future of the club’s kit supply, after the European champions made clear their desire to end their seven-year relationship at the end of the current campaign.
New Balance lost their case last week, clearing the way for Liverpool to take up a new agreement with sportswear giant Nike.
New Balance had claimed that they had activated a matching clause in their existing contract, only for Mr Justice Nigel Teare to declare that Nike's offer of using "athletes and influences of the calibre of LeBron James, Serena Williams and Drake” had not been matched.
The court declared that New Balance simply could not compete with what was on offer from Nike.
Liverpool successfully argued that their claims over global distribution were "a myth" and "grossly overstated".
However, they subsequently filed appeal papers to the Court of Appeal - seeking permission to appeal the ruling - in a final bid to lock Liverpool into a new kit deal.
On Friday however, confirmation via the Ministry of Justice, stated that the case had been ‘Refused’.
The dismissal of their appeal effectively draws a line under the entire issue, freeing the Reds to move forwards and announce a five-year deal with Nike, worth a basic £30million per year.
However, that figure is likely to more than double with Nike having pledged 20 percent of all net sales of merchandise, £2million worth of licensed products per season, and a 19 percent discount on standard wholesale prices.
On-field success would also see Liverpool collect performance-related bonuses, taking the overall number to closer to the £70million mark.
The deal is set to officially begin next summer, ahead of the 2020-21 season. It has already been revealed that over £6million has already been spent on research and new kit designs.
