
# Fluid Dynamics Explains Why You Can’t Drip Paint Like Pollock Did

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Eva Amsen**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/evaamsen/2019/11/06/fluid-dynamics-explains-why-you-cant-drip-paint-like-pollock-did/)

Jackson Pollock “dripping”-style paintings might look easy to recreate at first glance, but there’s a skill to it. Chances are, if you try it, you might find it quite difficult to control where the paint goes. Now, engineers have carefully studied his technique, and found out how Pollock was able to master his technique.
When researchers study the techniques of famous painters, they often look at the final painting to analyse the paints and canvas for hints of the method they used. But for some more recent painters, studying their technique can be as simple as watching a video. Since the early twentieth century, artists from Monet to Picasso have been filmed while they were working, giving a unique look into their style. To see Pollock at work, all you have to do is watch the 1951 documentary directed by Hans Namuth.
That’s also what Roberto Zenit and collaborators at the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México did, but they did more than watch the documentary. They also used the free Tracker software to analyse the movements that Pollock made when creating his work. They carefully measured and studied the distance his hand was from the canvas, and the speed at which he moved. 
Then, they recreated Pollock’s movements with a paint-filled syringe, to see whether the distance to the canvas and the speed of movement made a difference in how the paint landed. And indeed, it did. When they moved the syringe in the same way Pollock moved his hand, they were able to recreate the same tidy lines.
But if they moved closer to the canvas, or at the wrong speed, little curls appeared in the paint. This is caused by “coiling instability”, which can happen any time you pour a viscous liquid like paint. In their research paper, Zenit and his colleagues describe the physics behind coiling instability with several formulas that show how it not only depends on the way the liquid is deposited, but also on its viscosity. Through practice and experience, Pollock seemed to know exactly how to avoid coiling.
Zenit is a professor of Engineering at Brown University, and doesn’t usually study art, but in a press release about his research, he says “It's fascinating to see that painters are really fluid mechanicians, even though they may not know it.” 
And there are a few practical applications to this work. Knowing that Pollock had the skill to avoid unwanted coiling in the paint could help settle authenticity disputes for any works claimed to be his. And getting a better sense of how to avoid coiling instability when depositing paint could also help in the development of new printing techniques. 
It’s still not going to help you be the next Jackson Pollock, though.
