
# Mi Note 10 to be introduced on November 6th in Spain - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:18:31+00:00**

Author: **Abdul**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/mi-note-10-to-be-introduced-on-november-6th-in-spain/)

Mi Note 10 to be introduced on November 6th in Spain5 (100%) 1 vote
The Mi CC9 Pro will be first unveiled in China on November 5, i.e. tomorrow. Also, it will launch in international markets as Mi Note 10 starting with Spain on November 6th, the very next day of the Chinese launch, as confirmed by Xiaomi today via a tweet. The Mi Note 10 Pro is also expected to be unveiled at the same event.
Xiaomi has already confirmed the specifications of Mi CC9 Pro in the form of daily promotional teasers throughout last week. The company’s first smartwatch named Mi Watch and 5th generation Mi TVs will also be launched alongside this phone tomorrow at 2 PM CST. Sadly, there’s no guarantee whether these products will be made available in global markets in the future. But the Mi CC9 Pro re-branded as Mi Note 10 will indeed make its way to international markets as confirmed by Xiaomi itself.
A few days back, Xiaomi revealed that it will be launching the reincarnated series on 14th of November in Poland. And now, the company announces the launch date for Spain which is scheduled for November 6. The event will be held in Madrid and begin at 11:30 GMT+1 with a live stream so that interested people can witness the launch of the world’s first mass-produced 108MP Penta-camera setup smartphone.
In case you are interested in knowing the complete specifications of the Mi CC9 Pro AKA Mi Note 10, do check out our post on the same.

        .
      
