
# Rory McIlroy told he's the world's best golfer as Brooks Koepka rivalry hots up

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:35:46+00:00**

Author: **Neil McLeman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/neil-mcleman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/golf/rory-mcilroy-told-hes-worlds-20802389)

Rory McIlroy was told he is already the best player on the planet after winning the WGC-HSBC-Champions in Shanghai as he narrowed the gap on World No.1 Brooks Koepka.
McIlory recorded his fourth victory of the year by seeing off defending champion Xander Schauffele with a birdie at the first extra hole.
And the World No.2 immediately targeted another title in his last event in Dubai to set up his bid to overhaul Koepka next year.
“I’m trying to chase him down,” said McIloy. “I’m still a little behind, I think, but I’m getting there. This win definitely helps and if I can get another win by the end of the year, I’ll be feeling pretty good heading into 2020.
“I’m excited for the future. I feel like this year compares to 2014, 2015, but I don’t see any reason why I can’t go ahead and have an even better year next year.”
World No.10 Schauffele, who fought off flu but not the Northern Irishman, said: “When he’s on, I’d say he’s arguably the best player in the world. He made me play better.
"I know what I need to do to become a better player.”
Koepka, who is out with a knee injury, and McIlroy have now separated themselves at the top of the world rankings.
The USPGA champion claimed last month he does not have a rivalry with the European because the 30-year-old has not won a Major since 2014.
But McIlroy was voted PGA Player of the Year by his fellow pros after winning the Players Championship and the FedEx Cup. And he can move within touching distance of Koepka in the rankings by winning the European Tour’s season-ending DP World Tour Championship before taking his winter holiday.
“I’m looking forward to that break but I’ve still got one more tournament left this year at a place where I’ve had some success, so I want to try to finish the year on a high note,” he said.
“I really wanted to get another win before the end of the year and now that I’ve done that, it would be nice to get two wins.”
McIlroy won his third WGC title – and first since 2015 – by playing his final 39 holes without dropping a shot to finish on 19-under at Sheshan International. But his playing partner Schauffele birdied the 72nd hole to force the playoff and the Ulsterman hit a 4-iron to 25-feet to set up a two-putt birdie.
“It is what sport is about – Xander pushed me the whole way,” said McIlroy.
