
# Senators V Boeing: The Senators Came Dressed In Self-Importance, But Forgot To Bring Their Mirrors

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Charlton**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/andrewcharlton5/2019/11/07/senators-v-boeing-the-senators-came-dressed-in-self-importance-but-forgot-to-bring-their-mirrors/)

Boeing came to Washington last week, dressed in sackcloth and ashes.  Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg faced Senators who foreswore such modest garb. No, they were dressed in their own self-worth and arrived armed with sound grabs like ‘flying co
ffins’ buffed and polished to within an inch of their lives, ready for pick-up by a media that can smell blood in the water at 50 paces. The Senators came with their rehearsed lines but they did not bring the one thing they should have brought – a mirror.
The aviation industry expands and contracts in the ebb and flow of necessity and risk.  In such an unforgiving industry the risk is obvious. The necessity is driven by more complex factors. Cost and the ability to keep expanding through the current growth surge the industry is experiencing are two such double-sided factors. 
Air travel is the safest form of travel.  In 2017 there were zero air disasters. The obverse, of course, is when the ebb veers too far toward risk, and tragedy happens.  The end of 2018 and the beginning of 2019 were marked by the well-documented back-to-back B737 Max disasters. Were the tragedies avoidable? What pushed the ebb to the brink of risk?  TS Eliot would suggest that between the idea and the reality, between the motion and the act, lies the Shadow. To transpose the Eliot formulation into aviation, the relationship between the regulator and the regulated is the Shadow.
In 2012, the US Office of the Inspector General produced a report on the FAA’s Transport Airplane Directorate.  The OIG investigated claims that TAD employees attempted to hold Boeing accountable for safety, which led to a negative atmosphere at the TAD that had a potential impact on the oversight of Boeing aircraft certification. Ultimately, OIG substantiated these claims.  Then, in 2015, the OIG again turned their eyes to the FAA, this time auditing FAA’s Organization Designation Authorization. The ODA was intended to provide standardisation for FAA’s oversight of manufacturers, like Boeing.  The audit was requested by a congressman, Peter DeFazio, who expressed concerns as to whether the ODA program had ‘the resources and risk-based tools in place to provide effective oversight of the ODA program’.
 
The FAA had, in conjunction with an industry group, formed the Aircraft Certification Process Review and Reform Aviation Rulemaking Committee.  The Committee was ‘formed in response to a congressional mandate to study the aircraft certification process,’ it proudly noted. The resulting conclusions of the committee should have been incorporated into the oversight process of the ODA.  Instead, OIG found that oversight of ODA was neither systems- nor risk-based. It was simply a checklist of minimum requirements, to be completed every one or two years.  Unsurprisingly, it is this point that is attracting attention now. Senator Richard Blumenthal, for example, released a statement in which he called the FAA ODA ‘a final rule that effectively left the fox guarding the henhouse.’
But in fact, these issues stretch further back than 2012, and before the establishment of the ODA in 2005.  Between 1956 and 2009, the obligation on manufacturers to certify, upgrade, repair, and modify components to their aircraft have increased, with decreasing approval systems and oversight by the FAA. This is not the fault of the FAA.  In FY2019 the FAA sustained a $549 million drop in funding compared with the year before. The FAA is regularly caught up in government shut downs. This is unsustainable.
Whatever the regulatory oversight structure FAA establishes over manufacturers in the wake of the Lion Air and Ethiopian Airlines crashes, it must have the staffing, funding, and internal oversight to put those checks on manufacturers into action, and avoid air disasters that are avoidable. Good aviation needs good regulation. That needs funding. Instead of posturing, these Senators should look in the mirror.
