
# ISL 2019-20 | My job is to stop goals and I did it, states Subrata Paul

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:08:09+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/05/isl-2019-20-my-job-is-to-stop-goals-and-i-did-it-states-subrata-paul?utm_medium=rss)


        Jamshedpur FC's goalkeeper Subrata Paul expressed his happiness after their draw against champions Bengaluru at home and has stated that it is his job to save the goal, which he did with perfection against Bengaluru at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Sunday. He also hailed the home fans at the Furnace.
      
'Spiderman', that's what the media hailed Subrata Paul during his goalkeeping days for India. The experienced Jamshedpur custodian was the difference against champions Bengaluru FC, making nine saves at the post and in process, denying Bengaluru a win. 
Jamshedpur FC secured a goalless draw against Bengaluru at the JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur on Sunday, and Subrata Paul expressed his happiness after sharing the spoils with champions Bengaluru. Jamshedpur FC are now at the top of the table with seven points, but veteran goalkeeper Subrata is humbled by their position at the table.
“First of all, I’m happy with one point. Personally, I feel I didn’t do anything extra because that is my job. My job is to save the goal. I did the same today. I will try and do the same job in every match.” said Subrata Paul at the post-match interview, ISL website reported. 
“It’s very early to say something because it’s been only three matches. There are 15 more matches to go. Whatever happened, happened! Don’t see the table. I just want to tell everyone, do your work, give your best always on the ground, give your 100% and trust on God,” he added.
Subrata Paul also expressed his satisfaction with the point, despite Bengaluru FC having the upper hand in the match, creating more chances. Bengaluru was dangerous with continuous attacks at the goal and Paul had a busy day under the bars.
“First of all, we didn’t score because Gurpreet Singh Sandhu made some very good saves as well. One of our attempts hit the post. We were a bit unlucky. But that’s how it played out. You can’t say anything, you can’t win every match. Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose, sometimes you draw. Today’s match was a draw. So, we are happy with one point.
"We are more happy because everyone gave their best on the pitch. When we finish the day, go to the room and we think about what we did, I feel I gave my best. That is the satisfaction. I think today both the teams have the same satisfaction. They gave their best on the pitch and the match was a draw. You can’t say anything,” the 32-year-old said.
Subrata also thanked the crowd turned out in huge numbers at the JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur and hoped to see the support in every match.
“First of all, I just want to say thank you very, very much to all the supporters, who are coming out in huge numbers. They are always cheering us from the first minute to the end. Keep supporting us, come in numbers and we will give our best in every match. Thank you very much!”.
