
# Correct way to wear a poppy for Remembrance Day - and what it really symbolises

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:10:48+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/correct-way-wear-poppy-remembrance-20826512)

Over the next few days, you'll see a number of people selling red poppies and a number of people pinning them onto coats, jackets and bags.
This is ahead of Remembrance Sunday on November 10 and Armistice Day on November 11.
Armistice Day is a memorial day which has been observed since the end of the First World War to honour those who have died in the line of duty.
As a way to show support for the Armed Forces community, many will wear a poppy in the run up to the 11th and on the day itself.
But is there a correct way to wear one?
 
You might have heard some people say that there is a specific place you should put the poppy, or a way in which the petals and single green leaf should be positioned.
But according to The Royal British Legion (RBL), this simply isn't the case.
Their website states that there is no "correct" way to wear a poppy.
They explain: "It's a matter of personal choice whether someone chooses to wear a poppy and how they choose to wear it."
 
The red poppy is intended as "a symbol of both Remembrance and hope for a peaceful future", says the RBL.
They explain on their website: "Poppies are worn as a show of support for the Armed Forces community.
"The poppy is a well-known and well-established symbol, one that carries a wealth of history and meaning with it. Wearing a poppy is still a very personal choice, reflecting individual experiences and personal memories.
"It is never compulsory but is greatly appreciated by those who it is intended to support."
They go on to detail the history behind the symbol.
It all started back in Western Europe in World War One. The countryside where the fighting was taking place was repeatedly being blasted and bombed. The previously beautiful landscape had become muddy and bleak.
Nothing grew on the land, except for bright red Flanders poppies, which flourished in the middle of so much chaos and destruction.
In 1915, these flowers moved the Canadian doctor, Lieutenant Colonel John McCrae to write the now famous poem, 'In Flanders Fields'.
The poem later inspired American academic Moina Michael to adopt the poppy as a symbol of remembrance and she campaigned to make it an official symbol across the US, Canada, Australia and the UK.
She met with Earl Haig, the founder of RBL in 1921 and persuaded him to use the poppy as the Legion's emblem - and it remains the emblem today.

        To find out more about Remembrance Day, the Royal British Legion or to buy a poppy, visit  https://www.britishlegion.org.uk/
      
