
# Christophe Berra launches Ann Budge defence as he backs Hearts owner to appoint the right boss

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:36:37+00:00**

Author: **Fraser Wilson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-wilson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/christophe-berra-launches-ann-budge-20821689)

Christophe Berra has sprung to the defence of Ann Budge and backed the under fire Hearts owner in the hunt for a new boss.
Skipper Berra has a direct line to the Tynecastle supremo and is sure the businesswoman will make the right call in finding Craig Levein ’s replacement.
Budge is looking to make two appointments - a manager backed by a sporting director - and is targeting an “experienced and high profile” boss to lead the turnaround in fortunes on the park.
But the pressure is on the 71-year-old who received sickening online abuse from a section of supporters as she delayed swinging the axe on Levein.
The chop finally arrived last week with Hearts level bottom of the Premiership and Berra is feeling the pain as much as anyone.
Budge admitted she had made mistakes in the appointment of Ian Cathro and the dual role handed to Levein. However, the captain insists the anger vented towards the Jambos’ owner is misplaced.
He said: ”I have a good relationship with Ann and she tells me things from time to time, which will stay private.
"She has had a lot of stick recently - but she's done a fabulous job for this club. Ann will continue to do that.
"Her old business is completely different to running a football club, where there are a lot of eyes watching you.
"It's been tough for everyone and it's probably been even tougher for Ann. But she is doing everything she can for the club.
 
"If it wasn't for her - and the fans - who knows where Hearts would be. There are ups and downs but this club will bounce back.”
Berra isn’t sure what path the Jambos will take in their hunt for a replacement for Levein, saying: "That will be down to Ann and the board”.
But he has backed interim boss Austin MacPhee to have the squad firing for the crucial battle with bottom dogs St Mirren on Saturday.
He said: "Austin will leave no stone unturned and have us as well prepared this week.
"Going forward, he will have his own ideas and will want to put his own identity on the team.
"He's an assistant manager at international level and I don't think he slept on Saturday night because he wanted us well prepared for the semi.
"In a short space of time, he did as much as he could but Rangers are a good team with good players.
"Yeah, we all take responsibility for what happened. From top to bottom, we could all have done more.
"If we had got better results, the gaffer would still be here. But we didn't and unfortunately, it's the nature of the beast.
"Sport can be very harsh and it's a result-based business. But don't think we walk away and don't think we should take any responsibility.
"We do. It's a tough period for everyone at the club but this will separate the men from the boys.
"It's been a tough period but it's part and parcel of football and we need to stick together.
"We do have good players. On our day, we can be a good team.
"From top to bottom, every one of us needs to have a look at ourselves, start afresh and go again.
"The aim is to get this club back to where it should be.”
Berra is still reeling from Sunday’s Betfred Cup semi-final defeat to Rangers but insists MacPhee did all he could to drag the embattled squad through to the first final of the season despite limited preparation time.
"We weren't great in the first half but we had contained Rangers until the goal.
"Rangers had some half-chances but that goal before the break is the critical moment.
"It came from the second phase of a corner kick and we should do better.
"Normally we defend set-pieces well but they put it back in the box and we are stuck between defending the area or the man.
"It was the same with Rangers' second. The ball is flicked on and then smashed across goal.
"After that, with all the injuries and subs, the back four isn't really a back four.
"We just had to dig in for a long 45 minutes. It was tough work but we had to keep going.
 
"We did have a few chances with headers but Rangers were the better team and it was tough.
"We had to just hang in there at the end and see the game out without being humiliated.
"Austin tried to do a lot in a short period of time but it's been a hectic week. We've had three games and the manager has gone, so time was limited.
"He put his ideas across but Rangers were the better team and we just need to dust ourselves down.
"We have a massive game against St Mirren on Saturday and the focus has to be on that. We need to be full of energy and intensity.”
