
# St Paul's Cathedral London shares a link with the church bell in pearling town of Broome

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:29:01+00:00**

Author: **Ben Collins**

Original: [ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-11-06/restored-anglican-church-bell-broome-links-to-st-pauls-london/11646884)

In a simple wood and corrugated iron church in a remote dusty outback town, a keen eyed carpenter has discovered a long-forgotten connection to St Paul's Cathedral, in London.
In the far north of Western Australia, Broome's Anglican Church is unassuming but picturesque at first glance.
But a recent refurbishment of the 116-year-old wooden church included renovating and moving the free-standing bell tower, a process that rediscovered the impressive pedigree of the 250 kilogram bronze bell.
It was only after bringing the bell down to ground level that an inscription cast into the bell caught the attention of heritage carpenter Jack Baker.
"It's pretty interesting, the bell is actually bell number 287, was cast in 1902 by John Taylor and Company, founders in Loughborough, England," Mr Baker said.
The connection to what at the time were two of the world's leading companies in their fields makes this a bush church bell like no other.
Broome has been a boom and bust pearling town since it was first established in 1883.
But when the Anglican Church was being built, Broome was heading into its greatest boom of all.
Pearl shell was used in many ways like plastic is today, with buttons and cutlery handles around the world being made from pearl shell.
In the early 1900s Broome's industry expanded to the point that it became a major source of the world's pearl shell, according to Michael Gregg from the WA Museum.
"At times the pearling industry was actually exporting more pounds-worth of goods than the wool industry," Mr Gregg said.
With fortunes flowing out of Broome, it was undoubtedly a good time for the company that helped develop the hard-hat diving equipment synonymous with pearl diving at the time, to give back to the community.
"Siebe Gorman were the first builders and designers and in engineering, in underwater diving," Mr Baker said.
"They made the original helmets and they were also involved in the first decompression chambers."
There was no skimping on the bell itself with it being shipped from London after being cast at the famous foundry of John Taylor and Company.
"They make the world's finest bells," Mr Baker said.
Although St Paul's was first founded in the year 604, the 16,800 kilogram bell, Great Paul, was only cast in 1881.
It remained Britain's biggest bell until 2012, when the Olympic Bell was unveiled for the London Games.
Michael Gregg said the gift of the bell to Broome's Anglican Church was part of a spirited competition for the Broome pearl diving equipment market.
"Siebe Gorman and Co, and Heinke and Co were the two highly competitive leading manufacturers and suppliers of diving apparatus to the pearling industry," Mr Gregg said.
"The building of the Anglican church in Broome in 1902 is evidence of that, Siebe Gorman donated the magnificent bell, so Heinke donated a magnificent organ."
The impressive gifts to the Broome community are a testament to the wealth of the pearl shell industry at the time.
"The Broome market was quite probably their biggest single market [for diving equipment] outside the UK," Mr Gregg said.
"Heinke later topped that by donating a complete recompression chamber to the town of Broome in 1914, which was a vital life-saving adjunct to the pearling industry."
The corrugated iron and timber church has survived cyclones, Japanese attacks and the booms and crashes of the pearling industry.
But Archdeacon Michael Baines said it was termites that finally threatened to bring down Broome's Anglican church.
"A lot of the recent restoration work was basically replacing external timbers that the termites had been tucking into."
A bequest from a deceased member of the congregation allowed for the structural repairs as well as repainting of the outside of the church in its original colours.
"This building was originally white, and has been called in some circles — the little white church in Broome,"
But over many decades the little white church had become a distinctly yellow colour, possibly caused by the distinctive red soil of north west Australia, known locally as pindan.
"Apparently the reason for that colour was just the build-up of pindan over many years," Archdeacon Bainse said.
"So that's a name that has not made sense for the last few decades because it's been the little yellow church."
The Broome Anglican Church bell has now been returned to the top of the newly renovated bell tower, but carpenter Jack Baker hopes the local people will remember its story when they hear the bell toll.
"So the same people that made those amazing helmets that pearl divers would wear, that Broome people are very familiar with, they were also behind the forging of our beautiful bell," he said.
