
# Don’t Sweat Lululemon Stock’s Pullback

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Schaeffer&#39;s Investment Research**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/05/dont-sweat-lululemon-stocks-pullback/)

Athleisure icon Lululemon (LULU) has started off the new month with a thud, down 6% in November already. However, this slow start could have bullish implications as the holiday season approaches, if history is any guide.More specifically, Lululemon stock has pulled back to test its 60-day moving average this month, which has proven to act as support over the past three years. According to Schaeffer's Senior Quantitative Analyst Rocky White, in the seven other times LULU has pulled back to this trendline during this time frame, the shares were up 7.6%, on average, one month out, with 86% of the returns positive.
What's more, the stock's Schaeffer's Volatility Index (SVI) stands at 28%, near its two-year average of 36.6%. If the SVI holds steady around its two-year average over the next month, White’s modeling shows that an in-the-money LULU call option could potentially return 87% on another expected bounce off its 60-day trendline. In other words, prospective call buyers could almost double their money on a 7.6% gain in the underlying stock.
From Lululemon’s current perch at $191.84, another 7.6% pop would put the stock back above the $200 level and within a chip-shot of its Oct. 18 record high of $209.02. Year-to-date, LULU is up an impressive 58%, thanks in part to two big post-earnings bull gaps in March and September.
Should LULU make another run at record highs, some analysts may be forced to rethink their stance. There are 22 brokerages covering the security, and 10 rate it a tepid “hold.”
Plus, Lululemon is sporting a Schaeffer's put/call open interest ratio (SOIR) of 1.05, which ranks in the 85th annual percentile. In other words, speculators are more put-skewed than usual among options set to expire in three months or less, and an unwinding of this bearish sentiment could send the equity even higher.
