
# Isha Ambani’s incredible gesture for mother-in-law Swati Piramal at Diwali party hosted by Nita Ambani after husband’s ‘rude’ behaviour

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:50:47+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/isha-ambanis-incredible-gesture-for-mother-in-law-swati-piramal-at-diwali-party-hosted-by-nita-ambani-after-husbands-rude-behaviour/271678/)

Mukesh and Nita Ambani recently hosted a Diwali party at the Jio World Centre for their IPL team Mumbai Indians. Prominent among Nita Ambani’s guests were the players associated with Mumbai Indians including Rohit Sharma, Yuvraj Singh and Zaheer Khan. As expected, the entire Ambani clan was present in full force as Shloka Mehta and Akash Ambani too arrived at the event in style. Isha Ambani arrived with her in-laws, Ajay Piramal and Dr. Swati Piramal, and husband Anand Piramal.
A video of Anand leaving her parents and wife to fend for themselves had gone viral with many calling him rude. In the video, Anand was seen rushing towards the party venue without caring to accompany his elderly parents and wife, who were slow to get out of their car.
Unaffected by Anand’s behaviour, Isha waited for her mother-in-law, Dr Swati, until she too had come out of the car. Isha matched her mother-in-law’s steps slowly and posed for the camera before entering the party venue.
Dressed in a maroon velvet zari blouse with a pista green brocade saree with emerald and pearl jewellery, Isha looked stunningly beautiful. Like a caring daughter-in-law, she stood back to accompany her in-laws even after her husband had long left the place.
Her gesture earned her plenty of plaudits from netizens, who declared her a perfect daughter-in-law. One fan wrote, “My favourite Ambani is Ishaa.. But what happened to her husband..he just walk away leaving Ishaa behind!! Not a good gesture!” Another commented, “How polite is Isha!” “That is love before and echo works now, but Isha is really grem of a girl, hat off to her patience,” wrote another user on Instagram.
Days later Isha was spotted at the Mumbai airport with Dad Mukesh Ambani and husband Anand. While Mukesh Ambani had sported a white kurta-pyjama as he walked out of the Kalina airport in Santacruz, Isha was seen in a grey pullover with track pants and trainers. As for Anand, he looked uber cool in a grey t-shirt.
Isha and Anand had got married last year at a glittering event with the who’s who of global politics, entertainment, sports and business fraternity attending her wedding.
