
# Property: Work, rest and play here in this charming family home

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Beulah-Anne Sinton**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/lifestyle/property/movein/2019/11/07/news/property-work-rest-and-play-here-in-this-charming-family-home-1759348/)


        Offers Over £689,950
      
With its tree-lined avenues, awash in autumnal splendour, the Malone area of south Belfast offers a feast for the senses. However as the leaves softly blow away and the seasons inevitably change, this address remains steadfast as one of the most desirable in Northern Ireland. 
Occupying a delightful corner site just off the Malone and Lisburn Road, this attractive Victorian semi-detached residence puts its new buyer in pole position to take full advantage of all the spoils that come with life in this part of Belfast. And as well as its location and obvious good looks, this residence is a revelation in clever design and functionality. 
A semi-detached five bedroom property, accommodation is beautifully presented and offers flexible living space perfectly designed for modern family life. 
The generous site also enjoys a southerly aspect to the rear and the property further benefits from an annex complete with reception hall and consulting room - perfect for those who wish to work from home in somewhere that’s both comfortable and offers the peace and quiet needed to focus. 
The property has been enhanced for 21st century living but in the process, its Victorian heritage has been expertly retained, indeed given a new lease of life. 
Original features can be appreciated almost immediately with a living room that enjoys a cornice ceiling and ceiling rose and restored sash windows along with a superb cast iron fireplace and wood burner. 
The drawing room is also a wonderful space with its marble fireplace and reclaimed pine strip flooring while the morning room enjoys double French doors to your courtyard area. 
As the saying goes however the kitchen is the heart of the home and at 49 Marlborough Park South, you’ll find a space where even the most reluctant of cooks will want to spend their time. And with its open plan living and dining area, the whole family will no doubt just love to join you at the end of a busy day.
The space is meanwhile a master class in thoughtful design with its modern high quality units and of course roof windows. Again double doors beckon you to go outside for your morning coffee.
Five bedrooms, all generous in size, sprawl the first and second floor. The deluxe family bathroom offers of course the best of both worlds with its delightful roll-top bath, cast iron radiator and marble tiled floor. 
The space simply does not end here courtesy of a useful garage and of course the annex which offers its own entrance hall, cloakroom, store room and consulting room. It’s a highly practical space for work or study in silence.
And if you do work from home and are in need of a break, you’ll always find solace in your wonderfully private garden with mature trees and shrubbery that blend seamlessly with this most coveted part of Belfast.
However if you do wish to venture further, the area plays host to an array of top schools and sporting facilities while commutes to the city centre are made easy via excellent bus routes. 
Then there’s the wealth of shops, bars, cafes and restaurants that all combine to make this address one of the most desirable in northern Ireland.
For more information on this stunning residence, call Pinpoint today on 028 9068 2777.
