
# Isko: Clearing ops, ban on settlers to continue

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:28:03+00:00**

Author: **Itchie G. Cabayan**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/isko-clearing-ops-ban-settlers-continue)

CLEARING operations will continue at the Manila North Cemetery (MNC) even past the ‘Undas’ season.
Thus declared Manila Mayor Isko Moreno, as he directed MNC head Roselle Castañeda to continue the ban on informal settler-families inside the said cemetery.
In giving the orders, Moreno maintained that the cemetery is a place for the dead which should be kept solemn and sacred.
‘Imaginin nyo, gusto n’yo ba na ‘yung puntod o nitso  ng mahal ninyong yumao eh tinatayuan ng barung-barong? Tapos doon na din sila nagsi-cr o minsan nagda-drug session pa? Tapos saan sila kumukuha ng tubig at kuryente?’ Moreno stressed.
Castañeda said about 40 percent of such illegal structures inside the said cemetery are still up for demolition.
It was learned that the said informal settlers are being provided with transportation money so they can go back to their respective provinces.
During the All Saints’ Day and All Souls’ Day, cemetery-goers heaped upon Moreno praises for the orderly situation in both the MNC and the Manila South Cemetery.
Moreno banned vendors in the area leading to the entrance of the MNC and also inside the cemetery, thus doing away with clogging and difficult human traffic flow.
With the ban on vendors who used to occupy the streets and sidewalks, the cemetery visitors were able to enter the cemetery faster and enjoyed the convenience of walking along the wide streets and sidewalks.
Streetsweepers also lauded Moreno’s move, saying most of the trash they collected during ‘Undas’ came from the vendors themselves.
The MNC is the biggest cemetery in the country spanning 54 hectares and which receives at least two million visitors during the occasion.
