
# Banff rolls out new food bins under zero-waste initiative

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:34:48+00:00**

Author: **Marie Conboy**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/banff-rolls-out-new-food-bins-under-zero-waste-initiative)

BANFF — New bear-proof composting bins have arrived at 16 locations around Banff as part of a program meant to reduce the amount of food waste ending up in the town’s landfill.
The bins are being installed in several neighbourhoods as part of the town’s Zero Waste Trail initiative, which aims to eliminate all waste produced in Banff from going to the landfill within 30 years.
Only 38 per cent of all waste produced in Banff is now diverted from landfill through recycling or re-use. Of that amount, about one-third is food waste sent for composting.
“We want to eliminate waste going to landfill by 2050,” Mayor Karen Sorensen said in a release. “To do that, we have to divert as much as possible from the garbage stream. Food waste that goes to landfill just takes up precious space, and slowly lets off methane gas — a major contributor to greenhouse gas emissions.”
The zero-waste initiative follows the town’s unveiling last month of the latest addition to its growing electric vehicle fleet. Banff plans to reduce GHG emissions to 30 per cent below 2005 levels by 2030, and 80 per cent by 2050.
Banff residents cannot use backyard composting, which would attract wildlife such as bears. The new compost bins should make it easier for residents to sort and dispose of food waste.
The town intends to install 63 bear-proof bins over the next two years.
