
# B.C. warns of driving detours, delays ahead of years-long Kicking Horse highway upgrade

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:57:22+00:00**

Author: **Sammy Hudes**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/b-c-warns-of-driving-detours-delays-ahead-of-years-long-kicking-horse-highway-upgrade?utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Facebook)

As major detours through the Rockies loom next year, the B.C. government is bracing local communities for traffic impacts of the Kicking Horse Canyon four-laning project.
Construction along a “challenging section” of the Trans Canada Highway, aimed to help people travel more safely and efficiently by realigning and widening the road, is expected to begin in the summer of 2020.
The first extended highway closure would take place in the fall of next year.
B.C. officials say drivers should brace for major detours for up to four years because of the upgrades.
For multiple weeks at a time, Highway 1 east of Golden will be closed to all traffic to allow for the twinning and doubling to four lanes of a 4.8-kilometre-stretch in the winding, cliff-hugging Kicking Horse Pass, just east of the B.C. town.
Improvements will also include avalanche and rock fall mitigation, as well as wildlife exclusion fencing and a wildlife passage to reduce vehicle-animal collisions, according to the B.C. Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure.
Last week, the ministry held information sessions in Radium Hot Springs and Golden to discuss traffic management planning that will impact those communities and the travellers — including many Albertans — who visit there.
During closures of Highway 1, travellers would be rerouted through Highways 93 and 95.
Current plans would allow the shuttering of the Trans Canada Highway for up to 15 weeks per year during non-peak periods for construction, with a limit of 30 weeks over the entire construction timeline.
Full 24-hour closures would only be allowed from April 1 to May 15 and from Sept. 15 to Nov. 30 to avoid peak travel times in the summer and winter.
“As community engagement continues we may further refine these details,” the ministry stated in an email.
“This is a complex project and at times full highway closures are unavoidable. The traffic management strategy will minimize traffic disruptions during the peak summer and winter travel periods.”
It added the public information sessions in Radium and Golden were being held to share “the most up-to-date information.”
“The sessions will help inform the final traffic management plan, which will be refined later this year,” the ministry stated.
Radium Mayor Clara Reinhardt said the detour could bring as many as 6,000 extra vehicles through the area.
“For many in the community, it’s that fear of the unknown,” said Reinhardt, adding the town’s volunteer firefighters and first responders have expressed concern about whether they have sufficient resources to deal with additional calls, as traffic potentially increases.
But she said town officials are working with the province, RCMP and Parks Canada to prepare for the influx of drivers.
To manage traffic next summer, a roundabout will be built at the four-way stop where Highways 93 and 95 intersect. More signage, including mileage markers, are also being added along the highway.
But the construction could have a positive effect on Radium businesses, which are expecting more foot traffic as a result of the detour through the area.
“They’re going to be quite proactive in some signage and marketing to try and encourage people to stop, stretch your legs, get out and walk around and maybe see a beautiful little village in the mountains that you never even knew about before,” said Reinhardt.
B.C. officials say they are aiming to avoid closures and minimize even brief stoppages during the daytime in the summer. There would be an emphasis placed on year-round night-time work.
The highway carries more than 10,000 vehicles daily during the summer, according to B.C. officials, serving as a significant tourist and commercial transportation corridor. As much as 30 per cent of the traffic consists of commercial vehicles transporting goods to serve inter-provincial and international trade.
The request for proposals for the project will be issued this winter.

        shudes@postmedia.com
      
On Twitter: @SammyHudes
