
# Underdog Tag For Pirates In Soweto Derby Countdown

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/orlando-pirates-embrace-underdog-tag-against-kaizer-chiefs/666528)

An Orlando Pirates star has declared his team to be the underdogs going into the match against Kaizer Chiefs at the iconic Moses Mabhida Stadium later today.     

        Read: Pirates Keeper’s Dissimilar Soweto Derby Perspective… 
      
Despite the signs of resurgence from Pirates in recent matches, having won two out of their last three encounters, man of the moment Linda Mntambo says his team will go to the clash against Chiefs as underdogs. 
“I am pleased to be living what was one day only a dream but now that I am here; one is fully aware of what is required to continue playing for this club. I don’t romanticise my relationship with Pirates; this is my job and in order to stay employed at any job one needs to continue working hard and contributing positively – that’s what I focus on every day,” said Mntambo, as quoted on Pirates’ official website.

        Read: 11 Pirates Stars Itching For Soweto Derby Debuts 
      
“I’m glad to see that all of my hard work on the side-lines is beginning to bear fruit. I look to build on to the three consecutive games that I have started in order to become a regular in the team but obviously it won’t be easy because I play for a team that has many quality players in every position but at the same time this serves as motivation to keep me on my toes,” he says.
Though Pirates have been dominant over Chiefs in recent seasons, ‘Figo’ still believes that Amakhosi are the team seen to be with a chance to win.    

        Read: Pirates Duo Battle For Derby Spot V Chiefs 
      
“To be quite honest there has been lot of pressure, if you look at our previous games, we created a number of chances but we hardly scored. The win against Highlands Park is a great confidence booster but we have to continue working hard because Chiefs is going through a purple patch right now. We have been analysing them and they are firing on all cylinders which makes us underdogs for the game over the weekend. We understand the importance of this clash and the need to win it. This is more than playing for a place in the next round of Telkom (Knockout) or collecting three points at the next Derby. We are fighting for our pride, for bragging rights for the glory and honour to be the kings of Soweto. Our fans need a win, and as players we want to give it to them,” concluded Mntambo.
