
# How To Watch UFC 244

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/02/how-to-watch-ufc-244/)


        
          This story was written in collaboration with 
        
        
          
            Forbes Finds
          
        
        
          . Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
        
      
The UFC returns to New York City for UFC 244 on Saturday, November 2. The pay-per-view event, which streams on ESPN+, is headlined by a welterweight contest between Jorge Masvidal and Nate Diaz. The “BMF” title is on the line in that matchup. (The “B” stands for “baddest” and MF is, well, you get the idea.) The BMF title existed in Diaz’s mind until he spoke it into reality after his win over Anthony Pettis at UFC 241.
“This is the fight game,” Diaz said at the time. “Quit acting like this is a professional sport. [Take] whatever they want to give me? No, I’m going to take what’s mine. That’s what I’m talking about, the baddest mother [expletive] title. I need that belt made as soon as possible.”
Diaz had called for that fight against Masvidal during his post-fight press conference. The UFC must have liked the idea because it booked the contest and created a title belt for Saturday’s event. Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson will wrap that belt around the victor’s waist.
Contending for that title is Masvidal, who has scored two “Performance of the Night” bonus-winning knockouts in his past two fights. In March he knocked out Darren Till and then in July, Masvidal scored the fastest stoppage in UFC history with a five-second knockout win over Ben Askren.
In the co-headlining bout at UFC 244, Kelvin Gastelum welcomes former welterweight title challenger Darren Till to the 185-pound division.
Gastelum came close to earning the interim middleweight title in his most recent outing. He and Israel Adesanya were tied on the scorecards heading into the fifth and final round of their UFC 236 matchup. During the last five minutes of the bout, Adesanya kicked things up a notch and scored three knockdowns to pull ahead of Gastelum to earn the decision win and in the interim title. Adesanya went on to unify the belts in October with a knockout victory over Robert Whittaker. Gastelum has not fought since that loss.
Till has lost his two most recent fights by stoppage. After those defeats, the first two of his career, he decided to move from welterweight to middleweight. He gets a very tough test for his first UFC fight at 105 pounds as Gastelum is the No. 4 ranked fighter in the division.
The rest of the UFC 244 pay-per-view card is also worth checking out.
In another welterweight fight, Vicente Luque looks to break into the top ten of the division when he faces former two-time title challenger Stephen Thompson. 
In a heavyweight matchup, Derrick Lewis returns from knee surgery to face Blagoy Ivanov. Lewis has lost his past two fights, while Ivanov is on a two-fight winning streak.
In the opening bout of the pay-per-view card, Kevin Lee looks to get back on track in the lightweight division against the unbeaten Gregor Gillespie, who many feel is a future title challenger in the making. 
UFC 244 takes place Saturday, November 2, 2019, at Madison Square Garden in New York City. The pay-per-view card streams on ESPN+ at 10 p.m. ET. Prelims begin at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN2 following the early prelims which start at 6:30 p.m. ET on ESPN+, and UFC Fight Pass.
Jorge Masvidal vs. Nate Diaz   
Kelvin Gastelum vs. Darren Till   
Stephen Thompson vs. Vicente Luque  
Derrick Lewis vs. Blagoy Ivanov   
Kevin Lee vs. Gregor Gillespie   
Corey Anderson vs. Johnny Walker   
Shane Burgos vs. Makwan Amirkhani  
Brad Tavares vs. Edmen Shahbazyan   
Andrei Arlovski vs. Jairzinho Rozenstruik   
Jennifer Maia vs. Katlyn Chookagian  
Lyman Good vs. Chance Rencountre   
Julio Arce vs. Hakeem Dawodu 
