
# Deontay Wilder accused of 'flirting' with Riyad Mahrez's wife leaving Man City star 'devastated'

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:12:12+00:00**

Author: **James Whaling, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/james-whaling/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/deontay-wilder-accused-flirting-riyad-20801101)

Boxing champ Deontay Wilder has sensationally been accused of 'flirting' with the wife of Manchester City star Riyad Mahrez.
Algerian Mahrez, a Premier League winner with both City and Leicester , has been left 'devastated' by the developments, report The Sun.
Wilder and Mahrez's wife Rita met at Manchester nightclub Club Liv and there was a 'real connection' between the duo, a source told the paper.
The source said: "They were chatting intently, laughing and joking. You could see there was chemistry there and a real connection. But because of where it was, a lot of people noticed how well they seemed to be getting along.
“It’s a club full of footballers and Wags, which even some of Riyad’s team-mates go to. Rita was actually on a night out with Riyad’s sisters who she really gets on with.
“And they did not appear to be happy with what was going on. One even seemed to go and get Rita, to take her away from ­Deontay, who was of course trying to keep her with him.
“There was a bit of a tug of war over her affections, which of course a few people witnessed.”
Mahrez is a Muslim non-drinker who snubs the clubbing lifestyle of many of his Premier League colleagues.
And when reports of the encounter between WBC king Wilder and the 25-year-old wife of his two children filtered back to him - he was reportedly 'devastated'.
The meeting allegedly took place on Friday August 23, with Wilder spotted at Manchester fashion store The Couture Club the following day, where he met Manchester United midfielder Paul Pogba.
Mahrez, 28, married Rita in a private ceremony in August 2015.
He joined Manchester City for a then club-record £60million fee in July 2018 from Leicester.
American Wilder, 34, has won 41 of his 42 professional boxing bouts, with 40 of those coming by knockout.
His only failure to claim victory came against Tyson Fury in December last year when the duo fought to a draw in Los Angeles.
A rematch between the duo is pencilled in for February next year after Fury's brief stint in WWE.
Wilder must first negotiate another rematch - against Luis Ortiz - on November 23 in Las Vegas.
The Mirror are attempting to contact Deontay Wilder for comment.
