
# Three MESB shareholders seek to increase number of directors

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:12:13+00:00**

Author: **Surin Murugiah**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/three-mesb-shareholders-seek-increase-number-directors)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 6):Three shareholders of MESB Bhd, who collectively hold 9.41 million shares or an 11.49% stake in the leather fashion products retailer, have submitted a requisition notice calling for an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) to increase the number of board members from the existing five to eight.
The shareholders are Eng Yee Koon, who owns 6.52% of MESB shares, Dr Ihsan Osman (4.56%) and Datuk Seri Lee Sey Liang (0.4%).
The trio are seeking the company to appoint Ihsan, Lee and Lim Gim Leong as directors of MESB.
MESB's current board of directors comprises chairman Saffie Bakar, CEO and executive director Loke Lee Ping, executive director Chua Jin Kau and independent non-executive directors Tan Yew Kim and Lee Kok Heng.
In a bourse filing today, MESB said it had on Nov 5 received the notice of requisition from the trio.
"The board will deliberate on this matter and verify the details of requisition of meeting of members," it added, noting that further announcement on the development of the matter will be made to Bursa in due course.
For the 15 months ended June 30, 2019, MESB posted a net profit of RM7.53 million on revenue of RM233.87 million. There was no comparative figure available for the period as the company had changed its financial year ended from March 31 to June 30.
At the midday break today, MESB shares were 6.59% or 3 sen higher at 48.5 sen, valuing it at RM39.72 million.
