
# Schoolgirl 'vomited' after bus driver ordered her off for being 10p short

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:01:35+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Humphries, Jamie Hawkins**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/schoolgirl-vomited-after-bus-driver-3507485)

A schoolgirl was ordered off a bus by a driver for being 10p short.
The girl, 13, suffers with anxiety, and was so distressed by the incident she vomited in the street afterwards.
The bus driver allegedly kept her money, Liverpool Echo reports.
Dad of the traumatised girl Gary Jones, 52, said he was "fuming" about the incident and wanted a written apology from the driver.
She was getting on the Arriva bus in Bootle at around 7.30am on Wednesday, October 23, when the unsavoury incident occurred.
Mr Jones said: "She got on and she handed over her money and the driver said 'you're 10p short, you will have to get off the bus'.
"She just got off on Southport Road but he kept her money as well. She suffers with anxiety and I have taken her to the doctors, and she threw up while she was walking away.
"I had to get my older daughter to take her to school.
"It is out of order, it isn't right."
Mr Jones says he contacted  Arriva  the same day and was told customer services would look into the incident and respond within 10 days.
After the ECHO contacted Arriva, Mr Jones claims he received a phone call offering a three month bus pass and an apology.
He said: "They told me the driver was being dealt with in a disciplinary but they couldn't tell me the details.
"I wanted an explanation of why he done it and a written apology, but they won't give me that."
When contacted by the ECHO a spokeswoman for Arriva said they could not comment on internal disciplinary cases.
