
# Anthropologie’s New Holiday Gift Collection Is Here!

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:26:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/style-beauty/fashion/g29667945/anthropologie-holiday-gift-collection-2019/)

Let’s face it: Holiday gift shopping can be frustrating. There’s so much to consider, from staying on budget to finding a thoughtful present that the recipient will actually love.
Thankfully, Anthropologie just released an impressive collection of holiday gifts. As to be expected, the line beautifully showcases the retailer’s signature style: punchy colors, eye-catching patterns, and chic monogrammed items. Whether you’re in search of the perfect gift for your spouse, best friend, or even your boss, Anthropologie has you covered.
Shop some of our favorite holiday gift ideas below, and be sure to browse Anthropologie’s entire holiday gift collection here.
$48.00 SHOP NOW
It doesn’t get more thoughtful than triple-milled French soaps in festive packaging.
$34.00 SHOP NOW
The writer in your life will appreciate this far-from-typical journal, boasting a trendy combination of suede and sherpa. 
$42.00 SHOP NOW
Thanks to this pie dish, featuring an elegant floral design, she’ll finally feel motivated enough to host that dinner party.  
$14.00 SHOP NOW
A personalized gift never fails to impress, and these monogrammed coasters fit the bill. 
$28.00 SHOP NOW
Let this floral bouquet diffuser add charm to just about any room in your home. 
$85.00 SHOP NOW
Any bed will feel more luxe with this silk pillowcase in a holiday-appropriate silver hue. 
$98.00 SHOP NOW
Anthropologie’s faux-fur throw blanket is popular for three good reasons: It’s cozy, comes in nine colors, and is under $100.
$58.00 SHOP NOW
The best option for sprucing up a drab sofa.
$28.00 SHOP NOW
Travel in style with this animal-print passport case. 
$32.00 SHOP NOW
Copper eucalyptus? Yes, please. Gift this bouquet to your favorite hostess, and you’re guaranteed to get an invite to next year’s holiday bash. 
$158.00 SHOP NOW
Perfect for the Capri Blue fan, this advent calendar includes 12 essentials, featuring the beloved Volcano scent. 
$10.00 SHOP NOW
Anthropologie’s popular monogram mug is back, but this time in a chic black and white design. 
From: ELLE Decor US
Monique Valeris Home Decor Editor, ELLEDecor.com Monique Valeris is the home decor editor for ELLEDecor.com, where she covers everything from house tours to product roundups, and her idea of a well-decorated interior involves endless layers of patterns, brass accents, and anything with a monogram.
