
# 'You having a giggle mate?' - Aston Villa fans react to Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool offer

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:48:07+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-liverpool-carabao-cup-17214148)

Aston Villa fans have been responding to Jurgen Klopp’s cheeky offer of playing the Carabao Cup quarter-final in the Middle East.
Villa face Liverpool in the last eight of the competition on Tuesday, December 17, just a day before the Reds play in the semi-final of the Club World Cup.
That takes place in Qatar and Klopp made a tongue-in-cheek suggestion to hold the clash against Villa there too.
Liverpool will use two different squads to cope with the quick turnaround and speaking after his side's narrow Champions League victory over Genk on Tuesday evening, Klopp quipped: "Can we ask Aston Villa to come to Qatar and we play the game over there?”
 
@Oimbaii: Pure Klopp bants.
@Hop_Ben: Jurgen Klopp asking Villa to play the League Cup in Qatar, when it's an English cup and we're at home. You having a giggle mate?
@Dean12575116: Too right, away trip to Qatar.
@AndrewjG79: Only if they are paying for flights and hotels for a our fans as well.
@AstonVilla_UTV: This just makes him sound bad but I'm sure if you heard him say it, it would be in a comedic tone. So why are people being so hostile to him. Best manager in England right now.
@ConorAVFC_: Funny #bant Jurgen.
@Readepjp: We are the home team. Not our problem. They want to play all these competitions then they need to make sure they have the squad to do so. Or they should withdraw from some.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
@AlfieAVFC1: Can we ask Jurgen Klopp if he’s a comedian.
@Designaw: If they’ll pay for the fans travel I’m up for it!
@JoshBoyle22: We’re the home team tho ? Different if Liverpool were at home @EFL
@Danielstchr: All expenses paid.
 
@GarethAVL: Yet the statement said they asked the date not to be changed.
@Tomgnargore: Klopp is shook of Villa Park. They barely got the job done against us in the league and he knows without a full strength side they will get KO'd in the cup!
@JamesyFarmer: As a Villa fan living in Qatar, I fully support this ridiculous idea
