
# Photo: Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli enjoy a brunch date in the scenic beauty of Bhutan

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:35:21+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/photo-anushka-sharma-and-virat-kohli-enjoy-a-brunch-date-in-the-scenic-beauty-of-bhutan/articleshow/71918427.cms)

Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli is celebrating his birthday today and the skipper and his wife Anushka Sharma have jetted off to Bhutan for a much-needed getaway. Pictures from their trek in the beautiful mountains of Bhutan have been going viral on the internet. The duo also shared pictures and videos of them having a good time together.
Shrugging off their stardom, Virat and Anushka were seen having a pleasing time mingling with the locals and exploring new places. The couple event went on a trek to scale mountains. Both of them are travel enthusiasts and zeroed in on one of their favourite destinations to ring in Virat's birthday.
Just a while ago, Virat Kohli took to his social media handles to share a beautiful picture from their vacation. Enjoying the scenic view from the mountains, Virat and Anushka are looking very happy and content in this latest picture from their vacation. Sharing the picture, Virat wrote, "What a blessing to be able to visit such divine places with my soulmate. Also thank you everyone for your kind wishes from the bottom of my heart. 🙏😇❤️"
Meanwhile, on the professional front, Anushka was last seen in 'Zero' opposite Shah Rukh Khan and Katrina Kaif. Fans are eagerly anticipating her next film.
