
# Kacey Musgraves Announces Her Own Christmas Special, ‘The Kacey Musgraves Christmas Show’

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:34:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/entertainment/celebs/a29688196/kacey-musgraves-christmas-special-amazon-prime/)

Ah, do you smell that? It smells like teen Christmas spirit, because guess what, y’all—we are now only a month away from the biggest holiday of the year! And of course, with the imminent arrival of Christmas comes delightful (yet dreadful) gift shopping, spending time with loved ones (who you secretly hate), and, lest we forget, eating all the food (until you’re incapacitated)!
To properly prepare yourself for the holidays, you've got to watch alllll the festive television there is to be watched. Which is why your favorite country darling Kacey Musgraves is now dabbling into the realm of holiday programming. No, she isn’t producing her very own Hallmark movie (although I would SO watch), she’s making a Christmas show!
Related Stories

        Popular Christmas Movies the Year You Were Born
      

        The Greatest Hallmark Christmas Movies of All Time
      
Enter The Kacey Musgraves Christmas Show, in which Kacey will be collaborating with a bunch of your celebrity favorites to create a musical/comedy that’s bound to be out of this freakin’ world.
So while you’re impatiently waiting for the debut and hoping that the iconic Golden Hour–inspired tinsel ponytail makes a comeback, here’s every single thing you need to know about The Kacey Musgraves Christmas Show.
If you happen to do all your clothing and gift shopping via Amazon Prime, I have good news for you! You’ll already be signed up for Amazon Prime Video, which is where the special will be available for streaming.
Don’t have Prime? Don’t worry—all you gotta do is sign up for Amazon Prime’s 30-day free trial to watch it, but of course, make sure to cancel it afterward if you don’t want to be charged a formal subscription fee. And while you’re signed up for the free Prime trial, you might as well knock out your Xmas shopping and take advantage of the free two-day package delivery. Win-win!
Mark your calendars, kiddos—The Kacey Musgraves Christmas Show will be airing November 29...aka the day after Thanksgiving, so you’ll have plenty of time to recover from your multiple food-induced comas in time to watch.
EVERYONE. Just kidding, but for all intents and purposes, the people who will be guest-starring and/or performing might as well be called everyone because they are Just. That. Talented. We have Kacey, who will be acting as the ringleader, but there will also be appearances from:
So it kinda goes without saying that it will be lit AF, no pun intended.
Related Stories

        Everything to Know About Hallmark Christmas Movies
      
2019 Lifetime Holiday Movie Guide  Starr Bowenbank Editorial Assistant Starr Bowenbank is the editorial assistant who writes about all things pertaining to news, pop culture, and entertainment—you can follow her here.
