
# Pregnant Woman Uses AR-15 to Kill Alleged Home Intruder

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:37:01+00:00**

Author: **AWR Hawkins**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/04/pregnant-woman-uses-ar-15-to-kill-alleged-home-intruder/)

Breitbart News reported the incident happened Wednesday and the woman retrieved a gun after two suspects allegedly entered a home and began pistol-whipping the husband.
The woman fired one shot, striking one of the suspects, who then ran outside, collapsed in a ditch, and died. The second suspect fled the scene.
Bay News 9 reports the woman was pregnant at the time of the alleged home intrusion, and she used an AR-15 to defend her husband and home.
The husband, Jeremy King, described the harrowing incident: “They came in heavily hooded and masked. As soon as they had got the back door opened, they had a pistol on me and was grabbing my 11-year-old daughter.”
He indicated his wife grabbed the AR-15, shot and hit one of the suspects. That suspect “made it from my back door to roughly 200 feet out in the front ditch before the AR did its thing.”

        
          AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.
        
      
 
