
# 'Lots of screaming': 20-vehicle crash shuts down highway near Grande Prairie, Alta.

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:53:00+00:00**

Author: **Jeff Lawrence, CTV News Edmonton**

Original: [Edmonton](https://edmonton.ctvnews.ca/lots-of-screaming-20-vehicle-crash-shuts-down-highway-near-grande-prairie-alta-1.4672789)

EDMONTON -- A serious collision involving at least 20 vehicles shut down a highway north of Grande Prairie, Alta., with witnesses describing the devastation as chaotic and traumatizing.
RCMP said the collision occurred in the southbound lanes of Highway 2, north of Emerson Trail near Highway 672. Both lanes of the highway were shut down for hours but have since reopened.
Photos from the scene showed dozens of smashed cars and injured passengers. Witness Pancho Driedger said he drove up on the accident scene shortly after it happened.
"I saw a bunch of, at least 40 vehicles just scattered across the road and into the ditches and lots of screaming," he said. "There was this young girl sitting on her mom's lap and just bleeding really badly. She passed out a couple times. I went and put my jacket over her just to make sure she was warm."
EMS treated 29 patients, Alberta Health Services told CTV News Edmonton. Twenty-six of them were taken to hospital: six in non-life threatening condition and 20 with minor injuries.
Driedger said others were in the ditch, injured and cold, and called the entire ordeal "traumatizing."
Fog in the area was reportedly thick when the crash occurred. Driedger said the area was near-zero visibility.
Shortly after 12:30 p.m. local time, Grande Prairie RCMP said Highway 2 reopened to traffic in all directions and that emergency crews were no longer on scene.
