
# Paul Chuckle furious as brother's grave used as part of Halloween decorations at club

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:52:51+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/paul-chuckle-furious-brothers-grave-20811526)

Paul Chuckle has slammed a London nightclub for using a mocked up version of his brother's grave as part of their Halloween decorations.
A headstone that read 'RIP Barry Churckle 1944-2018' appeared at gay club Heaven on Saturday, with fans using it as a backdrop in selfies and posting them on Instagram .
Barry, who was one half of classic kids' TV duo The Chuckle Brothers with Paul, died in August 2018 after battling bone cancer.
Paul has slammed the "totally disrespectful" move and said he was in a "state of shock".
He told The Sun : "I'm genuinely in a state of shock! I just can't believe it.
"I think it's totally disrespectful not only to me but to his wife, kids and grandchildren and all our families. They will be devastated by this.
"I genuinely don't know what to say, what world do we now live in?"
Mirror Online has contacted Heaven nightclub for comment.
Paul recently told the Mirror that Barry regularly contacts him through dreams.
He said: "He's been in so many of my dreams since he passed, and I believe in the afterlife – it's comforting he's contacting me that way."
Barry originally didn't tell his brother that he was suffering from cancer.
Paul explained: "For a few years he had pain down one leg, but he said the doctors had told him it was nothing more than sciatica.
"I went to pick him up to go and film a sketch, and his wife Ann was helping him out of the door.
"He had a walking stick and looked 95 years old."
When he couldn't get out of bed, Barry told him that it was bone cancer.
