
# Announcing Windows 10 Insider Preview Build 19018

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:02:00+00:00**

Author: **Brandon LeBlanc**

Original: [Windows Experience Blog](https://blogs.windows.com/windowsexperience/2019/11/05/announcing-windows-10-insider-preview-build-19018/)

Hello Windows Insiders, today we’re releasing Windows 10 Insider Preview Build 19018 (20H1) to Windows Insiders in the Fast ring.
Starting today, Windows Insiders who have opted into Skip Ahead are being migrated back into the Fast ring. This means that Skip Ahead will no longer be reflected under Settings > Update & Security > Windows Insider Program. Going forward, we will not be offering Skip Ahead as an option for Insiders to sign-up for. Our goal is to provide everyone in the Fast ring the freshest builds at the same time.

        IMPORTANT: As is normal with pre-release builds, these builds may contain bugs that might be painful for some. If you take this flight, you won’t be able to switch Slow or Release Preview rings without doing a clean-install on your PC.
      
If you want a complete look at what build is in which Insider ring, head over to Flight Hub. You can also check out the rest of our documentation here including a complete list of new features and updates that have gone out as part of Insider flights for the current development cycle.
Not seeing any of the features in this build? Check your Windows Insider Settings to make sure you’re on the Fast ring. Submit feedback here to let us know if things weren’t working the way you expected.
To help you find the info that matters even faster, we’ve added four quick web searches to your Search Home:
To preview these web answers and results, select the search box to open Search Home, then choose one of the quick search buttons. Need quick answers about other topics or searches? Just enter a query into the search box for quick results about almost everything.
Let us know what you think about quick searches and how you would like to see them evolve.
Note: This is a server-side change that’s currently rolling out and will appear for users across builds from version 1809 to 20H1. Currently, quick searches are only available in the US, but will be available soon internationally.
We have made a few small tweaks to how it looks–here’s what you’ll see now:
Are you a League of Legends fan? The 2019 World Championship is here, and Bing has everything you need to stay up to date. Check out our League of Legends feature including matches, brackets, standings and more.
If you want to be among the first to learn about these Bing features, join our Bing Insiders Program.
Thanks,BLB
