
# Woman's heartbreaking social media warning after watching mum and daughter at swimming pool

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:25:50+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Luke Matthews, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/womans-heartbreaking-social-media-warning-17189178)

These days, we are all using social media - and, in all honesty, we're probably guilty of spending too much time on it.
If ever that thought were in doubt, a mum has reaffirmed every doubt you probably have over platforms like Twitter, Instagram and Facebook.
Taking to Facebook, a mother revealed she had experienced something quite damning while on a trip to her local swimming pool.
The mum, named Jen, told her Facebook friends and followers she saw a young mum and her daughter dressed in matching swimsuits.
The young girl spread out her haul of pool toys and suncream on a towel while her mum was on the phone, Jen added.
The mum then pulled out a tripod and took a few selfies with her child, with the youngster asking if they could then play in the pool.
The Mirror reports Jen says the child was told to wait while her parent posed her in front of the pool, though.
The mum then went into the water and came back out, all the time with a big smile and saying cheese 'like she'd done it a million times'.
The little one was then told she could play while her mum took a phone call and she swam around for a couple of minutes, while politely asking 'mama, can you come in the water with me, please?'.
 
"Mama glanced over at her but never got off the phone," Jen wrote.
"After 10 minutes mama ended her call, collected the sunscreen that was never applied, the water toys that never touched the water, and then her daughter and left the pool.
"I sat there thinking about what I'd witnessed for a while afterwards. I imagined the photos she took being perfectly edited and posted to social media with a caption like 'Pool time with my girly! #Makingmemories'."
Jen added: "She's going to look at that photo and she is going to compare herself to the perfect mama at the pool.
"She's going to feel like a failure. Ugh!! She'll never know that how she spent her time that day was so much better in God's eyes and in her children's eyes than that 'perfect mama' at the pool.
"What we see on social media isn't always real. Sometimes, and often, it's a complete set-up. It's staged and filtered and it's counterfeit.
"Mamas, don't compare yourself. You ARE enough! You are amazing and the very best part is that you are REAL! Your dirty shirt and your messy house and your happy children are real and they are proof that you are doing it right."
