
# Kris Jenner addresses OJ Simpson cheating rumours: 'It's so tasteless and disgusting'

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:36:14+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/News/kris-jenner-addresses-oj-simpson-cheating-rumours-its-so-tasteless-and-disgusting-20191104)

Cape Town – Kris Jenner is opening up about the "tasteless and disgusting" rumours of her "hot-tub hookup" with OJ Simpson.
The disgraced footballer allegedly told the rumour to his former manager Norman Pardo who revealed these and other shocking claims in his documentary, Who Killed Nicole?, which followed the infamous murder trial of Nicole Brown Simpson and the accused, her husband, OJ Simpson. OJ was controversially acquitted of her murder in October 1995.
Kris Jenner was close friends with Nicole, while Robert Kardashian, the ex-husband of Kris, represented his friend OJ in the trial. Now, with 2019 marking the 25th anniversary of Nicole's death, Kris opened up in the latest episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians, discussing how deeply painful it is to have to address these rumours on top of everything else, reports E! News.
"June's always depressing," the 63-year-old says. "It always reminds me of the anniversary of Nicole's death. And it's like, year after year, it becomes a little more faded."
Addressing the alleged cheating, she continued, "It's really kind of pathetic that when rumours get started, the media gives it life and breath. And on the anniversary of Nicole's death, it's so tasteless and disgusting."
According to People, in the same episode, Kris revealed that she decided to sue the publication that first ran with the story.
"I just think it's really unfair to Nicole's family, my family, for these stupid rumours to be flying around out there. It's always right there under the surface. My team has decided to take legal action because once and for all, I have to do something about it."
Tune in to Keeping Up With the Kardashians season 17 Sundays at 20:00 on E! (DStv 124) to watch the full scene unfold.

        Compiled by Bashiera Parker (Sources: 
        
          
            E! News
          
        
        , 
        
          
            People
          
        
        )
      

        (Photo: Getty Images)
      
