
# Missing Royal Navy submarine HMS Urge discovered sunk off Malta

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:08:04+00:00**

Author: **Edd Moore**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/missing-royal-navy-submarine-hms-3502023)

The wreck of a Royal Navy submarine which has been missing for more than 70 years has finally been discovered - at the bottom of the sea off Malta.
HMS Urge vanished on April 27, 1942, shortly after leaving the island's Grand Harbour for Egypt.
The disappearance of the sub has remained a mystery ever since, despite several failed searches. Until now.
A marine archaeology survey team from the University of Malta has discovered the wreckage of the boat two miles from the coast, where it appeared to have been struck by a mine.
It is thought its 32-strong crew, along with 11 Royal Navy passengers and a journalist, were killed.
The discovery comes three years after a false alarm, when another team mistakenly thought they had found the remains of HMS Urge off Libya.
Professor Timmy Gambin told the BBC the wreck was "in absolutely fantastic condition".
He said: "It's sitting upright on the seabed, very proud, in the direction it was ordered to take on its way to Alexandria."
Prof Gambin, of the University of Malta's classics and archaeology department, had been leading the hunt alongside Francis Dickinson - grandson of HMS Urge's commanding officer - Canadian naval researcher Platon Alexiades and Royal Navy historians.
The university said its search results had "established beyond doubt" that a German mine had sunk HMS Urge as it left the British submarine base during World War Two's siege of Malta.
The Ministry of Defence has recognised the site of the discovery as "the last resting place of HMS Urge and those who lost their lives in service of their country".
It said it was "grateful" to the team that found it and requested that "the vessel is undisturbed and in situ", the BBC reported.
HMS Urge was commanded by Lieutenant Commander Edward Tomkinson and was one of 19 British U-class submarines lost in the Second World War.
Among her finest moments were severely damaging the Italian battleship Vittorio Veneto and sinking the Italian cruiser Bande Nere.
A permanent memorial is now to be erected in Malta and a commemorative service there is being planned for next year.
