
# Mum Asks If She Can Feed ‘Extremely Fussy’ One-Year-Old Pizza For Breakfast

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:37:27+00:00**

Author: **Emily Brown**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/life/mum-asks-if-she-can-feed-extremely-fussy-one-year-old-pizza-for-breakfast/)


        A mum has divided opinion after asking other parents whether she should feed her ‘extremely fussy’ one-year-old pizza for breakfast. 
      
The idea wouldn’t be very shocking if you were a student recovering from Fresher’s Week, when your first meal of the day doesn’t come until about 2pm, but the very idea of someone having the cheesy treat for breakfast caused controversy on Facebook when mum Julia Stronach pitched it.
Stronach took to social media to seek advice from other parents, explaining she was open to accepting reasons for why she shouldn’t hand over the pizza, but at the same time explaining she didn’t want to say ‘no’ just for the sake of it.

        The mum compared the dish to a hotel breakfast, writing:
      
While there is a glaring issue with this post – the child is nearly two, there’s no need to give her age in months is there? – personally I think Stronach has made a good argument. Though pizza usually uses tomato puree instead of fresh tomatoes, the basic ingredients are dough, tomato and cheese.
Separately, the elements are all definitely breakfast-worthy, so there’s nothing particularly horrific about having pizza for breakfast.
Of course, the main focus of the post is Stronach questioning whether to give pizza to her (almost two-YEARS-old) child – a move which could be the start of an unhealthy habit.
If the little girl gets pizza once, she might demand it all the time and Stronach might find it hard to back out of the whole pizza-for-breakfast situation.
On the other hand, the child needs to eat, and if she’s as fussy as the mum says she is then it would be better to have pizza than nothing at all.
A number of mothers supported Stronach’s views, saying certain breakfast foods are ‘social constructs’, arguing society has created the impression we should have toast or cereal to start the day.
Some were less keen on the idea, with a few pointing out pizza isn’t the healthiest way to start the day, though they admitted it wouldn’t be too bad if it was homemade.
While there were mixed reactions to the post, the general consensus seemed to be in favour of the breakfast pizza – a decision I can definitely get behind.
In fact, if you’re against the idea I think you’re the weird one.

        Emily Brown
      
Emily Brown first began delivering important news stories aged just 13, when she launched her career with a paper round. She graduated with a BA Hons in English Language in the Media from Lancaster University, and went on to become a freelance writer and blogger. Emily contributed to The Sunday Times Travel Magazine and Student Problems before becoming a journalist at UNILAD, where she works on breaking news as well as longer form features.
