
# Tom Barrett, Milwaukee mayor, blames Trump for acid attack on Hispanic

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jessica Chasmar**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/5/tom-barrett-milwaukee-mayor-blames-trump-for-acid-/)

Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett on Monday blamed President Trump’s anti-illegal immigration rhetoric after a Peruvian-American resident was allegedly the victim of an acid attack.
A 61-year-old man was arrested by Milwaukee police after Friday’s attack that allegedly stemmed from an argument over a parking spot. The victim, Mahud Villalaz, told police his attacker told him to “go back to your country” before throwing acid in his face, causing second-degree burns.
Mr. Villalaz said he believes he is the victim of a hate crime and Mr. Barrett agreed that’s “obviously” the case.
“This type of racial verbal attack and now physical attack is condoned in the highest level of governments in our country,” the mayor said, Wisconsin Public Radio reported. “This anger towards people of other countries is being fed by our president. And by his followers. And what we saw over the weekend is a manifestation of that anger.”
Clifton Blackwell, 61, was arrested in connection with the attack Saturday. Charges will be brought forward to the district attorney’s office in the next couple of days, police said.
Meanwhile, a GoFundMe page to cover Mr. Villalaz’s medical bills has fetched nearly $40,000.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
