
# Buhari appoints former deputy CBN Governor as Special Adviser on Finance, Economy

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:51:16+00:00**

Author: **Bamidele Samuel Adesoji**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/05/buhari-appoints-former-deputy-cbn-governor-as-special-adviser-on-finance-economy/)

President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of the former deputy Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Dr. Sarah Omotunde Alade, as Special Adviser to the President on Finance and the Economy,
The information is contained in a statement by the President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Tuesday. According to Garba Shehu, the office of Dr. Sara Alade will be domiciled in the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning.
The statement from Garba Shehu reads;

        “President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Dr (Mrs) Sarah Omotunde Alade, as Special Adviser to the President on Finance and the Economy, domiciled in the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning.
      

        “Dr. Alade, who holds BSc (Economics) and Ph.D. in Management Science (Operations Research), retired from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as Deputy Governor in 2017 after spending 23 years in the apex bank. She had also acted briefly in 2014 as the CBN Governor.”
      
Dr. Sarah Omotunde Alade was appointed Acting Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria on 20th February 2014. Prior to this time, she had served as Deputy Governor (Economic Policy), Central Bank of Nigeria from 26th March 2007. She attended the University of Ife, Ile-Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University) where she obtained a B.Sc (Hons) degree in Economics in 1976. She also obtained an M.Comm degree at the University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia in 1983 and a Ph.D. Management Science (Operations Research), from the University of Ilorin in 1991.
Dr. Sarah Alade commenced her working career in 1977 with the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, Ilorin, Kwara State. In 1991, she joined the University of Ilorin as a Lecturer in the Department of Accounting and Finance. She joined the Central Bank of Nigeria in 1993 as an Assistant Director in the Research Department where she served as Head, State Government Finance Office (1993-1996), Head, Federal Government Finance Office (1996-2000) and Head, Fiscal Analysis Division (2000-2004).
She has served on the teams on major economic policy studies and has been involved in the preparation of Central Bank of Nigeria’s Monetary and Credit Policy Proposals over the years. She was actively involved in the drafting of the Medium Term Economic Programme (MTP) for Nigeria and the IMF staff Monitored Programme/Standby Arrangement.
Dr. Alade was appointed Director, Banking Operations Department in May 2004. In that capacity, she served as Chairman Board of Directors, Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) as well as Secretary, National Payments System Committee (NPSC).
As Deputy Governor of the CBN, Economic Policy, Dr. Alade superintended over the Economic Policy Directorate, comprising the Research, Monetary Policy, Trade and Exchange, Statistics Departments and Financial Markets Department.

        [READ: Buhari assents to the Deep Offshore Act]
      
