
# French dogs and death camp skies reach Deutsche Börse photography prize final

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:27:26+00:00**

Author: **Sean O’Hagan**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/2019/nov/05/deutsche-borse-photography-prize-mohamed-bourouissa-anton-kusters-mark-neville-clare-strand)


        Mark Neville’s French Little Britain and Mohamed Bourouissa’s clandestine capitalism make shortlist, with Anton Kusters’ sad skies and Clare Strand’s 1930s image transfer experiment
      
In its 24th year, the Deutsche Börse photography prize continues to surprise and bemuse with a shortlist that spans social documentary and conceptual experimentation.
The four artists are: Mohamed Bourouissa for his ambitious multimedia installation Free Trade, about global capitalism and its local, often clandestine, counterparts; Anton Kusters for his exhibition The Blue Skies Project, which comprised Polaroids of the skies over Nazi concentration camps; Mark Neville, who merges art and documentary in his subtly political book Parade, a portrait of a small community in Brittany; and Clare Strand for The Discrete Channel With Noise, her contemporary take on a pioneering 1930s experiment that attempted to transmit images via telegraph.
Unlike last year’s selection, which included eventual winner, Susan Meiselas, a renowned Magnum photographer, it’s a shortlist that won’t ring many bells with those outside the photography community.
Bourouissa’s sprawling Free Trade installation was one of the most talked-about shows in last summer’s Arles photography festival for its political engagement and its inventive use of video, photography, text and sculpture. The Algerian-born artist-activist works with marginalised youths from the Paris suburbs often using staged scenarios and footage captured on surveillance cameras and stolen smartphones. In Arles, the exhibition took over an entire floor above a Monoprix superstore, so it will be a real challenge to present it in the more confined space of the Photographers’ Gallery, London.
British photographer Neville’s Parade is equally topical but in a very different way. He began photographing in Guingamp, Brittany, in 2016 on the day Britain voted to leave the EU. Over a three-year period, he created a portrait of a region where farming is central – there are 6m pigs to 3.2 million people – and where links to Britain go back to early waves of immigration from the third to the sixth century. Neville is known for his deep engagement with his subjects and his prints were originally exhibited in the Guincamp arts centre and, large scale, at the local football stadium. The series is a deft exploration of the complex community in a region known more for its insularity.
Kusters’ installation The Blue Skies Project was exhibited last year in the ornate setting of the Fitzrovia Chapel in London. It comprises 1,078 Polaroid images of blue skies above every known second-world-war concentration camp across Europe. Belgian-born Kusters spent six years locating often forgotten sites and photographing them using instant peel-off film. The small photographs were then individually blind-stamped to show the number of victims and the GPS coordinates of the site. The installation also includes a long-form generative sound work by Ruben Samama. It is a deeply meditative piece that is currently installed at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, DC.
British-born Strand is the most mischievous contender here, an artist whose conceptual projects often use obscure starting points, in this instance a quote from Mike Teavee, a character in Roald Dahl’s Charlie and the Chocolate Factory: “You photograph something then the photograph is split up into millions of tiny pieces and they go whizzing through the air, then down to your TV set when they are all put together in the right order.”
The Discrete Channel with Noise – inspired by George H Eckhardt’s 1936 book, Electronic Television – recreates a complex but unreliable early experiment in telegraphic image transmission and reception. Using photography, painting, machinery and projection, her installation uses now outdated analogue technology to nod obliquely to the contemporary world of post-truth communication and the manipulation of information for political ends.
Given the thematic and formal disparity of the work on the shortlist, it is particularly hard to call this year’s favourite, though Bourouissa stands out simply for his activism, dedication and his head-on engagement with his subjects, an approach that chimes with the urgency of our tumultuous times.
• The Deutsche Borse Photography prize 2020 will be at the Photographers Gallery, London, from 21 February to 7 June.
