
# Voice of The Mirror: TV licence pledge reminds us why Labour is for the many

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:25:44+00:00**

Author: **Voice of the Mirror, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/voice-of-the-mirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/voice-mirror-tv-licence-pledge-20804895)

Labour's promise to save free TV licences for over-75s from the Tory axe is another great reason to vote for the party in the looming general election.
Deputy leader Tom Watson’s pledge to keep the benefit – introduced by a previous Labour government – illustrates why Labour justifiably claims it is for the many and the Conservatives only for the wealthy few.
Saving 3.7million senior citizens from paying £154.50 each to watch TV, often the only friend many have, is worthwhile in itself.
In the run up to Remembrance Sunday, we must never forget the people who would be clobbered include D-Day and other wartime veterans.
Yet the TV licence row, with Tory cowards breaking a 2017 manifesto commitment to retain them by trying to pass blame on to the BBC, goes to the heart of a political divide.
Labour believes in building a country working for everyone, promoting social justice and spreading prosperity with decent public services and a vibrant welfare state binding communities together so nobody is left behind.
 Johnson’s Tory Party is the political wing of a wealthy elite demanding benefits and services be slashed in the interests of those rich few who will be gifted huge tax cuts.
Equipment failures and staff shortages leading to a surge of cancelled hospital operations is symptomatic of an NHS struggling to cope under Tory austerity.
Miracles are performed daily but the unnecessary financial squeeze on vital medical services is a dangerous, false economy when ops are postponed and people made to suffer.
Let’s vote to give doctors and nurses the resources to do their jobs properly.
THE dog-owning lady who gave a family £100 to replace their son’s lost football boots and bag will know who she is. We applaud her kindness as it helps restore our faith in human nature when often it is people behaving badly who make headlines.
