
# 'I don't' - Liverpool boss issues denial over Aston Villa claim

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:59:49+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/liverpool-aston-villa-carabao-cup-17218673)

Jurgen Klopp has denied he will send Under-23s boss Neil Critchley to manage Liverpool for the Carabao Cup quarter-final clash with
Reports have suggested the Reds boss could delegate his managerial duties for the Villa Park clash because his side are in Club World Cup action a day later.
It was confirmed earlier this week that the reigning European champions will send two different sides to each game to avoid a major fixture pile-up that could have seen the match played as late as the first week of January.
Klopp won the Champions League with Liverpool in June and his side are top of the Premier League by six points but even he can't be in two places at once so he might have to take a rain check on the December 17 clash in B6 with the Club World Cup taking place in Qatar.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
And despite reports claiming that Critchley will take charge of the Reds, he hasn't made a decision yet.
"I don't have to think about it yet," he told Sky Sports.
"We have until the middle of December. We will find a proper solution for everybody.
"I won't play! It won't make a difference to fans watching."
