
# The best smart home deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:43:00+00:00**

Author: **Dominic Preston**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/digital-home/best-smart-home-deals-3666739/)

Smart home tech is getting bigger every year. What started out as just turning on your lights from an app has extended to smart heating, security, and even kitchens, while virtual assistants like Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant and Siri try to work their way into every room in your home.
Still, replacing every appliance you own with a smart version could quickly get very expensive, so it makes sense to pick up smart tech at smart prices.
And to save you time, we've rounded up the best savings right here. Note that we also have a dedicated article for Amazon Echo deals if you're after an Alexa-enabled device specifically.

        Logitech Harmony Smart Home TV HubFrom: AmazonWas: £99.99Now: £73  (27% off) View Deal
      

        Honeywell Smart Thermostat T6RFrom: AmazonWas: £199Now: £124.02  (38% off) View Deal
      

        Amazon Echo Show + Ring Video Doorbell ProFrom: AmazonWas: £448.99Now: £348.99  (£100 off) View Deal
      

        Tado° Smart ThermostatFrom: AmazonWas: £119.99Now: £99  (17% off) View Deal
      

        Yale Smart Home Alarm KitFrom: AmazonWas: £349.99Now: £219.95  (37% off) View Deal
      

        Philips Hue 3-Bulb Starter KitFrom: AmazonWas: £149.99Now: £124.49  (17% off) View Deal
      

        Ultimate Ears Blast (with Alexa)From: AmazonWas: £169.99Now: £82.50  (£87.49 off) View Deal
      

        Logitech Harmony Elite Remote (works with Alexa)From: AmazonWas: £299Now: £158.95  (47% off) View Deal
      

        Netgear Arlo Smart HD Security Cameras (x2) with Night VisionFrom: AmazonWas: £309.99Now: £199  (36% off) View Deal
      
Netgear Orbi RBK50 Wi-Fi SystemFrom: AmazonWas: £399.99Now: £267.99  (33% off) View Deal< >
A smart house is a connected house. Its devices are on the same Wi-Fi network and can be controlled remotely via a smartphone or smart speaker with voice-command. Connected devices can range from TVs, thermostats, security cameras, to even kettles and toothbrushes. See our round-up of the best smart home devices here.
Amazon also offers services to help you install smart home devices. When you buy the smart home product, you can often choose a bundle that includes installation. We have seen discounts on these services before, so keep an eye out when major sale events like Black Friday and Cyber Monday hit.
With Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant and Siri vying for the top spot in the smart assistant market, choosing a smart home device might be all the more confusing for first-time buyers. We’ve compared the different smart home assistants previously to see which one is better.
In our Echo Dot vs Google Nest Mini comparison, we found that Alexa needs questions to be phrased more carefully than the Google Assistant, but it performs better when it comes to shopping requests. In contrast, the Google Assistant is better at search-based questions. This split may seem obvious, but it’s useful to know when deciding which device best caters to your needs.
Amazon has broadened its Echo devices range with upgrades and new devices too (see the best Echo deals here). The Echo Dot 3 expands on the Dot 2’s capabilities and freshens the design with a fabric exterior, and the Echo 3 offers a huge improvement in terms of audio quality.
There's also the Echo Sub (£119.99), which is Amazon's deep bass subwoofer. 
On the Google side of things, the Google Nest Mini offers similar functionality and pricing to the Echo Dot. It also has larger counterparts in the Google Home and Google Nest Max, while the Google Nest Hub also packs a touchscreen display. Look for prices below these at sales events, or bundle deals, which you can usually get from retailers like Currys PC World or Argos.
If you’re an iOS enthusiast, our colleagues over at Macworld UK also compared Siri’s performance on the Apple HomePod to the Echo and Google Nest. The HomePod is best if you primarily use Apple products and streaming services to start with.
The HomePod isn’t compatible with all smart devices though, so you’ll have to be careful which devices you buy. Apple does list products compatible with its HomeKit ecosystem, which you can see here.
You don’t necessarily need a smart assistant to have a connected smart home. Smart assistants allow you the freedom of voice-free control, but you can just as well control the smart device from your phone. Most smart devices have dedicated apps (or even remotes) that control settings and functions.
Smart speakers like the Amazon Echo and Nest Home are the easiest way to smarten up your home. These devices usually see price cuts, especially as Amazon and Google duke it out to provide your virtual assistant of choice. They're both keen to get as many smart devices into homes as possible.
You can find certified refurbished Amazon smart home devices at a lower price than the original RRP. Amazon tests all refurbished devices rigorously to ensure it works just as new; the company also provides a 1-year warranty.
See all certified refurbished Amazon devices here.
Third-party speaker manufacturers with smart support are also sometimes discounted, though they're less aggressive. You can find portable smart speakers with Bluetooth connectivity too, such as the Ultimate Ears Megablast, which featured on our round-up of the best smart speakers.
More expensive smart home products like thermostats and full lighting kits see big offers, but keep an eye on smaller products like smart plugs or single smart bulbs - the savings might be smaller, but if you're planning on picking up a few it can really add up.
For more inspiration, check out our guide to the best smart home tech, as well as our more specific and detailed round-ups of the best smart lighting, smart heating, and smart kitchen gadgets.
Most major electronics retailers sell smart home stuff, along with just about anywhere else that sells tech.
Amazon often has some of the biggest bargains - especially in the run-up to Black Friday 2019. If you find that you’re missing out on Amazon’s Lightning deals, which run for just a few hours and offer limited stock, we'd recommend signing up for Amazon's 30 day free trial of Prime, which will get you access to deals 30 minutes before everyone else. Plus, you'll get free next-day delivery with the Prime trial, as well as access to Prime Instant Video and more.
Sign up for Prime now.
Beyond Amazon, here are a few of the best places to check for bargains:

        From: AmazonWas: £99.99Now: £73  (27% off) View Deal
      
All you need to kick off your smart home, the Harmony Hub lets you control your set-top boxes and also integrates with Alexa.

        From: AmazonWas: £199Now: £124.02  (38% off) View Deal
      
Save 38% on this smart thermostat when you buy from Amazon. It works with Alexa and the Apple HomeKit. See our guide on smart thermostats.

        From: AmazonWas: £448.99Now: £348.99  (£100 off) View Deal
      
Save £100 when you get the Echo Show and Ring Video Doorbell Pro together.

        From: AmazonWas: £119.99Now: £99  (17% off) View Deal
      
Save £20.99 on this deal from Amazon. See more Tado smart home thermostat deals here.

        From: AmazonWas: £349.99Now: £219.95  (37% off) View Deal
      
Controllable from your phone and with no monthly fee, the Yale Smart Home Alarm currently has more than £130 off.

        From: AmazonWas: £149.99Now: £124.49  (17% off) View Deal
      
Take control of your home with this Alexa and Apple Home Kit-enabled lighting kit, complete with three colour-changing bulbs.

        From: AmazonWas: £169.99Now: £82.50  (£87.49 off) View Deal
      
A great deal that'll get you a portable speaker with built-in Alexa and plenty of power.

        From: AmazonWas: £299Now: £158.95  (47% off) View Deal
      
This smart remote lets you control all your entertainment from one place. See our review of the Logitech Harmony Smart Control.

        From: AmazonWas: £309.99Now: £199  (36% off) View Deal
      
Save over £110 on this two-camera security set from Netgear.

        From: AmazonWas: £399.99Now: £267.99  (33% off) View Deal
      
Read our review of the Netgear RBK50 Orbi here.
Click here for the best Samsung deals and Samsung voucher codes.
