
# First-time buyer stamp duty exemption – when you do and don't have to pay it

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:59:28+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/first-time-buyer-stamp-duty-20787051)

Rising house prices coupled with stagnant wages have placed home ownership out of reach for millions of first-time buyers, with the average deposit now £23,271, while wages are £29,588.
And so on a mission to give them a helping hand, the Government scrapped stamp duty on – almost all - first homes in 2017.
Under the terms, Philip Hammond announced that tax would not have to be paid on first-time buyer purchases up to £300,000.
He said the move would cut stamp duty for 95% of first-time buyers and abolish it altogether for 80% of them.
In London, the levy was scrapped on the first £300,000 on homes up to £500,000 - an effective reduction of £5,000.
It came after increased pressure on the Government to reform the bill due to property inflation – especially in London and the South East.
The Government is now toying with the idea of scrapping it altogether – pushing the onus onto the seller, who would foot 100% of the bill instead.
 
Stamp duty is the bane of every home buyer, with only first-timers exempt from paying the tax, if they purchase properties for less than £300,000.
However, Simon Nosworthy, head of property at law firm Osbornes, said he’s seen an increase in clients being stung by the duty without warning.
“There are plenty of caveats that prevent first-time buyers from benefitting," Nosworthy explains.
Brought in almost two years ago by then Chancellor Philip Hammond, the change ruled that first-time buyers in England, Northern Ireland or Scotland would be exempt from paying the duty on properties purchased up to a value of £300,000. This means first-time buyers can save up to £5,000.
For properties costing up to £500,000, they pay no stamp duty on the first £300,000, but have to pay the duty on the remaining amount up to £200,000.
However, if first-time buyers purchase a property worth in excess of £500,000 they do not qualify for any of the exemption and have to pay the full duty.
 
“To qualify as a first-time buyer you must never have owned, or had an interest in a residential property in the UK or overseas,” Nosworthy explains.
“This includes both freehold and leasehold property. This sounds simple enough, but the rules are strict and there are some potential surprises.
“For example, things can get complicated when people are purchasing a property together.
“I see many people assume that as one party is a first-time buyer they will automatically qualify, but this is not the case if one of the parties purchasing the property has ever owned another property or part of one in the past.”
It is of course possible to omit the name of the person who is not eligible for the first-time buyer relief on the deeds, but this raises issues of ownership.
“If your name is not on the deeds you may struggle to have a claim over the ownership of that property,” he adds.
“Another issue is if you have inherited part or all of a property in the past. If you inherit a property you are no longer eligible for the first-time buyer exemption, despite never actually having purchased a property.
“This is a particular issue with people who are not from the UK as there are different inheritance laws abroad and in some countries people automatically receive a percentage of a property if a relative dies.  I have had clients who have not even visited a property that they had a stake in.
“In the past some clients have assumed that as they have only bought an investment property they would still be considered a first-time buyer. This is not the case.
“People argue that they are buying their first home, but the rules are strict and are for ownership of any property for any purpose.”
The first-time buyer exemption can also become an issue in cases where the parent is helping with the deposit.
“Sometimes parents say they don’t want to gift the money to their child and want to have a stake in the property. When this happens it means that their child is no longer eligible for the exemption,” he adds.
Some property developers will offer a ‘stamp duty discount’ on new builds - where they foot the full bill on your behalf or offer a discount.
However, other than this, the rules are the same - meaning first time buyers will have to pay the requred rates outlined above.
The rules are different if you're buying through the shared ownership scheme, though .
When you buy a share in a property through an approved shared ownership scheme, there are two ways to pay it:
If you decide to make a one-off payment up front, this is making a ‘market value election’ for stamp duty.
If you choose to pay in stages, you pay anything that’s due on the first sale amount. But then you don’t make any further payments until you own more than an 80% share of the property.
You can choose which option’s best for you, depending on your circumstances.
