
# Councillors at South Lanarkshire claimed almost £66k in expenses last year

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:04:28+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Bark, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/stephen-bark/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/councillors-south-lanarkshire-claimed-almost-20810780)

South Lanarkshire councillors claimed almost £66,000 in expenses last year.
Most claims made were for travel costs – including more than £44,000 in mileage – while £10,940 was paid by the council for phone and IT costs.
Councillors claimed £1718 more in expenses last year than they did in 2017-18.
Clydesdale councillors claimed more on average than those from other areas, mainly due to the increased travel required to represent constituents.
Combined expenses and salaries paid to councillors in 2018-19 increased by almost £22,000.
In total, £1.307 million was paid to councillors last year – less than in three of the previous four years.
Leader of the Council, Cllr John Ross (Hamilton South) earned more than any other councillor with a before-tax salary of £39,655.
Basic pay for the majority of councillors was £16,994. However leaders of opposition groups, committee chairpersons and the Provost and Depute Provost all earned over £20,000.
Provost Ian McAllan (Clydesdale East) was one of 30 councillors who did not claim any mileage. However the council spent £8826.44 on the provost’s civic car.
At the other end of the scale, Clydesdale South councillor Colin McGavigan claimed £4695 in mileage – more than any other councillor.
He also claimed the most expenses in total at £4983. Cllr Catherine McClymont (Clydesdale North) was the only other to receive over £4000 in expenses.
Cllrs Robert Brown (Rutherglen South), Katy Loudon (Cambuslang East), Jim McLachlan (Hamilton North and East) and Jim Wardhaugh (East Kilbride East) claimed the least amount of expenses at £118. That was just £1 less than Cllrs Janine Calikes (Rutherglen Central and North), Margaret Cowie (Rutherglen South), Geri Gray (East Kilbride South) and Provost Ian McAllan.
Most expenses are claimed by councillors and reimbursed by the council. However IT/phone and training/conference costs are paid directly by the council and included in councillors’ total expenses. Training/conference costs came to £8354 and an additional £1519 was reimbursed for other travel costs.
An SNP spokesperson said: “All expense claims are within the guidelines set down by the Government and used are used to assist councillors in fulfilling their duties.”
Lib Dem deputy leader Cllr Mark McGeever (Hamilton West and Earnock) said: “I think all parties would agree with us that it’s crucial people can trust the expenses claimed by councillors are genuine and reasonable costs incurred in the course of their duties.
“The system used in South Lanarkshire rightly requires councillors itemise any expenses and submit receipts. These then need to be approved by officers before they are reimbursed.
“Along with the fact the figures for each elected member are published every year, this should mean anyone making excessive claims would be spotted and challenged.
“Speaking for the Liberal Democrat group, I know we are totally committed to transparency and delivering value for our constituents.
“Of course we recognise it’s important that councillors of all parties are able to reclaim legitimate expenses without fear they will be unfairly criticised – otherwise we would end up with only wealthy people feeling able to stand for election.”
A spokesperson for South Lanarkshire Labour group said: “The council publishes information on salaries, expenses and costs associated with items provided to councillors to assist them in their duties, such as mobile devices.
“A breakdown of these costs is made available in the interest of public scrutiny.
“Not all councillors will be paid the same salary and not all will have the same expenses
“Most are on a basic salary, those in senior positions will earn a higher salary and expenses can vary, reflecting the specific duties and responsibilities of that councillor as well as other factors such as the geography of their ward or any training or conferences they may have attended on behalf of the council.”
The Conservative group were contacted for comment.
