
# Elon Musk Says Tesla Truck Reveal Will Coincide With ‘Blade Runner’ Date

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bill Roberson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/billroberson/2019/11/07/must-be-expensive-very-musk-says-tesla-truck-will-get-reveal-to-coincide-with-blade-runner-date/)

Describe for me in single words, only the good things that came to mind about... the Tesla truck?Sorry, I’m just such a big fan of Blade Runner that if I have to write a story even remotely connected to the seminal sci-fi movie that I’ve seen.... a few times, the lines just kind of slip in on their own.
That said, Tesla boss Elon Musk says that he will reveal the Tesla pickup truck on November 21, 2019, in Los Angeles. The date isn’t random in any way.
Musk has called the still-not-officially-named pickup the “Cybertruck” and the “Blade Runner truck” at points in the past, and the reveal date cleaves nicely with the iconic film, which is set in Los Angeles, in November of 2019.
Blade Runner was released in 1982 to lukewarm reviews (it was recut after testing poorly), and since that time, it’s been restored, remastered, re-edited and recognized as one of the most intriguing, beautiful and thoughtful sci-fi dramas ever made. There are also seven versions of the movie (and I’ve seen them all) and I don’t recall ever seeing a pickup truck in any version (unless you count J.F. Sebastion’s 2019 Aztek thing), but I digress.
So far, details about Elon’s mystery truck remain a well-guarded mystery, including what it looks like (don’t count on it being the quasi-military vehicle pictured at top). Except for an ambiguous teaser image (below) seen briefly during the Model Y reveal in March, no specifics about the Cybertruck/Cyberpunk Truck/Blade Runner truck have bubbled up from Elon’s skunkworks, except for his claims it will be able to power 240-volt equipment (such as welders, etc.) and that it will be “quite unique, unlike anything.” He also said the look of it “won’t be for everyone.”
Musk has also claimed the truck will outperform segment leaders like the Ford F-150, while also being a better sports car than a “standard 911.” That’s a pretty big boast, but seeing as how almost anything is possible when you trade a gas burner for a frunk and a skateboard full of batteries, all I can say for now is OK, show me something. He also said he hoped it would come in at around $50,000, which is fairly mid-range these days for a moderately optioned full-size pickup. Perhaps there will be an Owl trim option.
Of course, the smart money is that the truck will be everything he says it will be, seeing how he’s hit the mark on pretty much everything else so far, if a bit past the due date at times. So perhaps November 21st will be an appropriately dark, dreary, downpouring day in L.A. when Eldon... er, Elon, pulls the cover off his next electrical wondermobile. Hopefully, it’ll be great. But if not, I do have one word for Musk and Tesla that will make every previous model seem like tears in rain: Spinner.
