
# Latest Samsung Details Reveal Surprising New Galaxy Phone

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ewan Spence**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ewanspence/2019/11/04/samsung-galaxy-s10-lite-a91-new-leak-rumor-patent-specifications/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Although the Galaxy S10 family was launched in February this year, there are growing signs that Samsung is preparing a ‘Lite’ version of the flagship phone. It is expected to feature a SnapDragon 855, 8 GB of RAM, a 6.7 inch OLED screen, and a triple lens main camera. Now we have a better idea what it could look like.Eagle eyes at SamMobile have spotted a potential design of the Galaxy S10 Lite in a recently published patent. that “claims the ornamental design for a mobile phone as show and described”. Abhijeet Mishra reports:
“The patent reveals a device that looks exactly like the Galaxy S10+ from the front, with dual front-facing cameras located on the top right edge of the display. At the back, there’s a dual camera setup with its sensors placed vertically in the center and an LED flash to its right, which is exactly how the camera assembly is laid out on a Galaxy S9+. In fact, it looks pretty similar to a Galaxy S8 prototype that Samsung had tested with dual rear cameras back in 2017, although that prototype had its LED flash and heart rate sensor sitting below the two camera sensors.”
As always, just because something is in a patent does not mean that it will reach the retail shelves. That said a claim on a design elements is a much stronger bet than an esoteric camera lens or hinge fixture. There’s also the connection between what is on show in the patent and other leaks around a potential Galaxy S10 Lite.
These include online specs of an as-yet unreleased Galaxy handset (via Galaxy Club), inside sources reporting new model numbers (via SamMobile), and certification by Brazillian authorities (via GSM Arena).
The question now is not over model numbers, but over branding. The assumption by the geekerati is that this is a ‘Lite’ version of the Galaxy S10 family, presumably launching in time for the holiday season. But it doesn’t sync up with the launch schedules of the Galaxy S family.
To my mind this could be a ‘high-end’ handset in Samsung’s Galaxy A series of handsets. While the ‘A’ handsets do not get as much love from the geekerati, they are a key part of Samsung Mobile’s volume strategy. Bringing out a strong Galaxy A handset just before Christmas will boost sales but preserve the marketing power of the S Class.
Or are the weaker sales of the S Class needing a bit of a boost with a festive special Galaxy S10 Lite?
