
# Microsoft Japan Launched A Four-Day Workweek To Much Success: Is This The Key To Attracting Talent In The Tight U.S. Job Market?

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jack Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jackkelly/2019/11/05/microsoft-japan-launched-a-four-day-week-work-to-much-success-is-this-the-answer-to-attract-talent-in-the-tight-us-job-market/)

Just as kids pray for snow so that they can stay home from school, adults desperately want their employers to adopt four-day workweeks.The chance to have that one extra day to relax, take care of errands, engage in a hobby, spend more time with family and get a mental-health break is intoxicating. The U.S. requires, either by corporate directives or social pressure, employees to work long hours and be on call almost all of the time. We humblebrag about how many hours we’ve logged at the office. Boasts about how hard and long we work are common and used to signal our importance. Given the choice, most people would love to ease up a bit. However, if everyone else is working, you feel the pressure to do so as well.
Microsoft Japan decided to see what would happen if the company offered its 2,300 employees the chance to “choose a variety of flexible work styles, according to the circumstances of work and life,” in an effort to boost productivity and morale. The Microsoft division offered four-day work options under the “Work-Life Choice Challenge 2019 Summer.”
Japan is known to have a strong culture of hard work and strict employee dedication. The Microsoft division in Japan started this pilot program to determine if the employees could realize the same results with 20% fewer weekly hours. The results of the experiment indicated that workers were happier and there was also a 40% gain in productivity.
Microsoft Japan CEO Takuya Hirano noticed that in addition to being more productive, the workers asked for fewer days off. Costs declined too. As you could imagine, a high amount— 92%—of Microsoft Japan's employees said they preferred the four-day work week.
Hirano said in a statement to the division’s website, “Work a short time, rest well and learn a lot.”
Many companies are experimenting with time spent in the office. I recently reported on the German-based firm, Digital Enabler, that put into place a five-hour work day to cultivate a better work environment and enhance morale, productivity and motivation. The company claims its five-hour work day plan is successful and plans on maintaining this schedule. 
In a tight and competitive job market, many companies are shedding their traditionally strict work standards and offering options. While it's far from perfect, corporations offer the chance to work from home, job sharing, hot desks, remote employment, flexible schedules and other arrangements to accommodate employees. Many people, particularly younger generations, prefer a better work-life balance over some extra money. 
We can’t take the Microsoft Japan results at face value. Workers may have tried very hard to make the project successful, so that they could have a permanent four-day work week. The 40% productivity may not be realized once the shortened work week is officially established and, subsequently, taken for granted. How will clients and customers react? Will they notice a decline in service and complain or take their business elsewhere? The study wasn’t clear with respect to whether or not everyone took off the same day. If they did, it could create chaos if serious issues arise and no one is available to intercede. If employees opt for different days off, it could be frustrating and hurt the flow of business when an employee needs another person who is out on Friday and won’t be back until Monday.  
Large companies, such as Microsoft, have an advantage over small and mid-size companies. The multinational tech company has thousands of employees to depend upon. At smaller-sized companies, the burden falls on a few and the day off may leave clients, customers and important work unattended.
As noted with the German-based company, management recognized that there must be attention paid to curtailing meetings, cutting short extraneous conversations between co-workers, putting the phones away and less social calls to friends and family. It could lead to strict new rules. Interestingly, the Japanese managers were heavy handed. Employees were fined for taking too long on non-work related matters.  
 Japan, like the U.S., deals with the culture of overwork. The country has even coined a term for it—karoshi (death by overwork from stress-induced illnesses or severe depression). Similarly, in America, there is an uncomfortably high level of mental-health issues associated with the pressures and stress of working too many hours. The lack of adequate time off for parental leave and emotional health matters is disturbing. 
If the employment rate remains high and there is a shortage of appropriately skilled people available for the amount of open jobs, companies will need to address the situation by adopting new, employee-friendly programs, like the one tested by Microsoft Japan. As a way to entice people to switch jobs or keep the employees you already have happy, corporations must offer benefits, such as four-day work weeks. In addition to the motivational factor, it is common-sense business to offer an attractive inducement to entice and retain the best and brightest talent.
