
# Unai Emery slammed for poor leadership after starting Mesut Ozil in Arsenal's Wolves draw

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:32:15+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/unai-emery-slammed-poor-leadership-20806616)

Tony Cascarino has accused Unai Emery of "poor leadership" for starting Mesut Ozil for Arsenal at the weekend.
Ozil made his first Premier League appearance since the middle of September as he was named in the starting XI for the draw with Wolves on Saturday.
The start came after he impressed in the midweek 5-5 thriller with Liverpool in the Carabao Cup, which the Gunners eventually lost on penalties.
But while the decision to put him into the team appeased fans, former Chelsea and Aston Villa midfielder Cascarino believes the selection is only showing weakness.
He believes that Emery is bowing down to fan pressure, as opposed to standing behind what he believes it right.
"Unai Emery's decision to start Mesut Ozil against Wolves smacked of poor leadership," Cascarino wrote in The Times.
"If the Arsenal manager genuinely believed Ozil was the man to lift his faltering team, he would have used him more than twice in the Premier League this season.
"Instead, his selection seemed motivated by a desire to appease the Arsenal fans. If Emery is to turn things around at the Emirates, he needs to do more than simply pick a fan favourite."
Emery is still fighting for his job after Arsenal let a lead slip for the third game in a row.
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang's opening goal was cancelled out by Raul Jimenez in the latter stages of the match.
As revealed by Mirror Football, Emery has been given a month to save his job.
Arsenal are determined to try and give Emery every chance to turn things around and have denied reports suggesting their Head of Football Raul Sanllehi has met with Jose Mourinho.
Arsenal could slip nine points behind the top four if they lose at Leicester next Saturday and there is a growing fear that the club could act if they are in serious danger of missing out by Christmas.
