
# Mum causes outrage after making children at birthday party eat from 'yuck bin'

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:39:36+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/family/mum-causes-outrage-after-making-20825656)

Children's birthday parties can be stressful, but when hosting one, it's important to try your best to make sure that the little ones have a good time.
One mum recently put a lot of work into planning the perfect party for her child and the entire class, even going as far as to make up lunch boxes for all to enjoy.
But when the day of the party rolled around things didn't go quite as well as she'd hoped.
A couple of uninvited children were brought to the party and left there by their parents, this put the mum in an awkward situation as she didn't have enough of the lunches to go around.
 
In a post on Mumsnet, another mum recounted the events that followed at the party.
"There was a whole-class party at a leisure centre last weekend at which the hosting mum had done little lunch boxes for each child with the usual - rolls, fairy cakes, fruit, veg sticks, crisps, etc.
"There were unfortunately several uninvited siblings dumped by their parents at the start of the party.
"This mum had brought a little bin with a sign on it saying 'Yuck Bin' with a vomiting emoji which she passed around for all the children to put the items they didn't like from their food boxes.
"The uninvited siblings were allowed to take food from the yuck bin."
 
She went on to say that at the end of the party, one of the children's parents "flipped out" about how the kids had been fed.
"I can see her point, she's a rude cow for dumping her child without asking first, but the hosting mum's way of dealing with it was horrible. Am I being unreasonable to think that nobody has behaved very well here?"
More than 500 people responded to the post, with many admitting they were shocked by the whole thing.
One person replied: "That is an atrocious way to treat kids. Any shaming should be aimed at the parents."
 
A second said: "Feeding them unwanted food is fine, from a yuck bin not so much."
A third added: "Extremely rude to drop off uninvited children. I wouldn't have taken them tbh BUT giving them food from a 'yuck bin' is so demeaning to the children, I'm actually appalled by it."
However not everyone thought the mum's reaction was wrong.
Someone else argued: "It was excessive but sometimes excessive is the only way to get things done. Maybe the rude parents leaving uninvited kids will think again next time. The children won't be scarred by this."
"The parent who dumped her kids is in the wrong," proclaimed a different mum. "At least party mum gave them something."
