
# 10 Managers Facing The Sack

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:03:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/world-news/10-managers-facing-the-sack/666697)

With Bundesliga giants Bayern Munich making the decision to part ways with manager Niko Kovac on Sunday night, a number of other bosses are also seemingly nearing the dreaded sack.

        Click through the gallery above to see 10 managers who could be sacked in the coming weeks.
      
Despite winning the LaLiga title in each of his first two full seasons with FC Barcelona, Ernesto Valverde has found himself under constant scrutiny at the club, and the former Athletic Bilbao coach's job is now hanging by a thread after suffering another shock 3-1 defeat to Levante last weekend.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now 
        
      
The 55-year-old is not the only Spaniard potentially facing the chop, though, with Arsenal boss Unai Emery suffering similar pressure in London. The Gunners are currently fifth in the Premier League standings, 14 points off league leaders Liverpool, and a bad result against Leicester City this Saturday could send Emery packing.
A number of other EPL managers are also on the brink of losing their jobs if reports are to be believed, including Tottenham Hotspur boss Mauricio Pochettino, Everton's Marco Silva and Southampton's Ralph Hasenhuttl, and Manchester United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is perhaps the biggest name who could fall in the coming weeks.

        
          Read: Bayern Sack Kovac After 5-1 Loss
        
      
Outside of England, Zinedine Zidane continues to divide opinion with Real Madrid, while Lucien Favre has failed to impress at Borussia Dortmund. The pair feature alongside AS Monaco's Leonardo Jardim and Torino's Walter Mazzarri – you can view the full list by scrolling though the gallery above.
