
# Woman absolutely mortified as dad asks boyfriend what his 'porn history' is like

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:06:50+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/sex-relationships/sex/woman-absolutely-mortified-dad-asks-20809194)

We all know that meeting the parents can be a make or break situation for a new relationship.
No matter how much you ask your mum and dad to 'go easy' on your new partner, they're bound to do something to cause tension or embarrass you.
One woman recently took her boyfriend home to meet her family and was completely and utterly mortified when her dad handed the fella a list of incredibly personal questions to answer.
The list was intended to help the dad determine whether the guy was "son-in-law material" and it asked about everything from his intentions to his porn history and past sexual partners.
 
Aleisha Stubley from Middlesbrough, North Yorkshire, had social media users in hysterics when she shared a snap of the questions on Twitter .
She captioned the post: "Came out for tea with Andy and my family for the first time, my dad's just gave him this. LMFAO f*** off."
The laminated list features nine questions, and starts off pretty reasonably by asking: "Where do you you see yourself in five years?"
It goes on to ask other straightforward things such as "What are your intentions with my daughter?" and "Do you have a temper?"
 
But as the list goes on, the questions begin to get more and more embarrassing.
For question number five, Aleisha's dad boldly asks: "What is your history with pornography?"
He later goes on to ask the poor bloke how many sexual partners he's had before his daughter and cheekily tries to find out if he'd be willing to look after his beehive if he goes away on holiday.
The list attracted a lot of attention from fellow Twitter users, many of whom praised Aleisha's dad for his sense of humour.
One person said: "He's hilarious your dad."
Another commented: "I love that he's gone all out and laminated it."
A third added: "Top bloke your dad."
