
# Mum blasts TUI after finding hotel room damp and mouldy on £5k family holiday

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:29:24+00:00**

Author: **Bethan Sexton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mum-blasts-tui-after-finding-20832737)

A mum has blasted TUI after she spent over £5,000 on a family holiday only to find disgusting mould and damp throughout their hotel bathroom.
When she entered the holiday property's bathroom Nicola Nash's was confronted with mould everywhere, filthy grouting, damp walls and a sink which appeared to be propped up with a metal bar.
The 33-year-old, her husband and three kids used towels to mop up surface water, but still managed to slip and bruise themselves.
Nicola, from Dundee, paid £5,179 for the all-inclusive package at the Hotel Globales Bouganvilla in Sa Coma, Majorca.
The family travelled in September but Nicola has decided to publicly complain now after getting no response from TUI.
She complained: "I find it abhorrent that you can continue to ignore customers' complaints.
"I will reiterate that the place we were subjected to staying in was a complete shambles, covered in mould due to a boarded-up window, causing injuries also."
Photos of the grimy bathroom taken by Nicola show white tiles with dirty grouting, mouldy splatters on part of the shower screen, towels on the floor to dry up water and peeling walls.
The underside of the sink appears to be propped up with rusty metal bars glued against the wall.
To add to their bathroom woes, the family felt the choice of food was very poor, prompting Nicola to capture a plate with sweetcorn and an unidentified circular object on it.
 
She said: "We had no ventilation and the floors were extremely slippery.
"We had to put down towels all over the apartment floor, I slipped due to this and fell into the sink.
"My daughter did the same thing, she injured her foot causing her discomfort for a few days."
 
She added: "We lost the use of our window due to a late addition of outside toilets and the smell that came up the drain into our room was disgusting.
"Considering we paid over £5000 the room size for two adults and three children was shocking.
"It has left me disgusted, heartbroken and stressed."
 
At odds with Nicola's experience, the Hotel Globales Bouganvilla is rated four stars out of five on Trip Advistor.
Happywandererkent praised the hygiene of the hotel, writing: "The food was buffet style and there was always a good selection and everything was clean and fresh."
Darren Y who also visited in September said the hotel was "Out of this world".
He wrote: "Can not fault this place at all. Rooms cleaned every day with clean bedding and towels every day, well worth the money.
But last month, user Zoe gave the place just one star and branded it a "run down council estate."
TUI claimed they would be unable to comment without Nicola's booking reference, something she says she has twice provided to the company.
