
# Champions League: Hakimi inspires Dortmund to comeback win over Inter

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:35:00+00:00**

Author: **Reuters**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/05/champions-league-roundup-barcelona-dortmund-inter)


        • Napoli held by Salzburg, Valencia see off Lille 4-1 • Barcelona goalless with Slavia Prague, Lyon beat Benfica
      
Borussia Dortmund defender Achraf Hakimi produced a blistering individual performance as he scored a brace to help his side come back from two goals down to beat Internazionale 3-2.
Lautaro Martínez and Matías Vecino fired Inter into a 2-0 first-half lead before Dortmund came storming back with Hakimi scoring either side of a Julian Brandt effort.
The result left Dortmund second in the group on seven points from four games, one behind Barcelona and three ahead of third-placed Inter.
Napoli gave another erratic performance as they hit the woodwork twice, wasted a hatful of chances and looked shaky at the back in a 1-1 draw at home to RB Salzburg.
Salzburg’s teenage forward Erling Braut Haaland continued his prolific season by putting the Austrian champions ahead from a penalty, his seventh goal in four games in Group E and his 23rd of the season in all competitions. Hirving Lozano equalised with a superb strike one minute before half-time but, despite carving out more openings in the second half, Carlo Ancelotti’s side missed their chance to book a knockout-stage place with two games to spare.
Barcelona’s patchy form continued as they failed to break down a diligent and bold Slavia Prague side and were held to a 0-0 home draw in their Champions League Group F game on Tuesday.
With Luis Suárez injured, Barça lacked a cutting edge and the visiting goalkeeper, Ondrej Kolar, produced an admirable display to shut out the Catalan side, thwarting Lionel Messi and Sergi Roberto from close range in the second half.
Messi also struck the top of the post in the first half following a thrilling solo charge from his own half and then teed up Arturo Vidal for a tap-in late in the game but the effort was ruled out for offside.
Gerard Piqué did not shy away from criticising his side’s performance at the Nou Camp. “Playing like this it’s difficult to see us winning the Champions League,” he said.
Valencia breathed life into their hopes of qualifying for the last 16 with a stunning second-half turnaround to beat Lille 4-1.
The Nigerian forward Victor Osimhen gave the French side a deserved lead in the 25th minute but Valencia drew level in the 65th minute with a panenka penalty from their captain, Dani Parejo.
The home side went ahead with an own-goal from the Lille defender Adama Soumaoro before Geoffrey Kondogbia stretched Valencia’s lead two minutes later with an outstanding long-distance strike, and the substitute Ferran Torres rounded off the win with a coolly taken finish in the 90th minute.
RB Leipzig were dominant as they followed up on Saturday’s eight-goal demolition of Mainz 05 in the Bundesliga by beating Zenit St Petersburg 2-0 away to stay top of Group G.Leipzig’s captain, Diego Demme, put the visitors ahead with a dipping shot through a crowded penalty area in first-half stoppage time before Timo Werner found Emil Forsberg, who slipped the ball through to Marcel Sabitzer, and the Austrian took the ball past the goalkeeper, Mikhail Kerzhakov, with his first touch before slotting it into the net.
Lyon revived their hopes of reaching the last 16 when first-half goals by Joachim Andersen and Memphis Depay helped secure a 3-1 win over Benfica.
