
# FG to explore job creation in video technology 

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:10:24+00:00**

Author: **Chidinma Nwagbara**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/04/fg-to-explore-job-creation-in-video-technology/)

The Federal Government (FG) is looking into job opportunities that can be created in the field of video technology.
This is according to the Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mariam Katagum who charged the stakeholders in video technology to explore ways of creating more investment and job opportunities through the advancement in video standards.

        [READ MORE: 
        FG seeks partnership with National Council of Registered Insurance Brokers, here’s why]
      
While speaking at the 2019 World Standards Day Symposium, with theme, “Video Standards Create a Global Stage,” organised by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Katagum urged the participants to develop innovative ideas and take advantage of evolving video technology while adhering to standards.
Katagum said that the standards governing video technology are international and are recognised and respected all over the world. She told the participants that their innovations could introduce economies of scale that help to grow the market and give other innovators the confidence to invest in new video applications and services.
The minister commended the standards agency and assured that her ministry would continue to support the active participation of Nigeria in international standardisation programmes being coordinated by SON to ensure that the country continues to derive optimal benefits from emerging opportunities.

        [READ ALSO: Fashola divulges FG’s plans to build affordable homes]
      
The Director-General/Chief Executive, SON, Osita Aboloma said the organization would continue to ensure good international practices/standards.

        “As your representative in the international standardisation bodies namely, the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO); the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), we shall continue to explore means of ensuring the active participation of Nigerian stakeholders in standards development, review and implementation in line with international best practices.”
      
Why this matters: Taking advantage of video technology will be economically viable in the long run as it encourages the growth of new business and advances communication. It will offer job opportunities for those technology inclined while also creating an avenue for innovative ideas.
