
# Entrepreneurs Aren’t Made Overnight: Sitting down with Sarita James

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Sanyin Siang**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/sanyinsiang/2019/11/06/entrepreneurs-arent-made-overnight-sitting-down-with-sarita-james/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Sarita James is the CEO of Embark, an admissions software company whose new College Cents service has already helped thousands of US students claim government aid and pay for college. I sat down with Sarita to discuss her entrepreneurial journey, transitioning a major company, and the advice she’d give to her 21-year-old self.
Sanyin: Sarita, fill in the blank for us: "If we really knew you, we would know that..."
Sarita: I'm an extremely direct person. I tend to ask probing questions and I share answers that reflect my best understanding of a situation. I usually request and share feedback very soon after meeting people — sometimes on the same day.
Sanyin: That's amazing. How has that quality helped you throughout your career?
Sarita: It can admittedly take people by surprise, but I think it's helped me get straight to the heart of an issue. If someone seems frustrated or disappointed or even uninterested then I’ll usually ask them why. That’s allowed me to understand what I might be missing and to brainstorm solutions. I think giving honest answers - about what product features our company can and cannot provide, or what financial targets are achievable in a given timeframe - has helped me build trusting relationships with clients and investors over time.
Sanyin: Let's talk about Embark and your entrepreneurial journey. You've had leadership positions at Microsoft, McKinsey, Citi Ventures, and even as a White House fellow running the Small Business Administration’s Microloan program. These are remarkable experiences across different sectors and industries. Coming from these positions, how did you start the new College Cents service at Embark?
Sarita: When I left financial services five years ago, I was excited to find a mission-driven technology company in Embark. Embark was founded in 1995 by an MIT alum and had an established admissions software business. Based on my VC experience, I liked the idea of joining a business with existing clients and revenues since most start-ups don’t survive long enough to gain traction. There was also an opportunity to reinvent and grow the company.
After I joined, I learned that our customer support team at Embark had been fielding questions for many years from college applicants asking us for help with paying for college, even though that’s not something we specialize in. Then we heard more from students and their families about just how intimidating navigating the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) can be; some gave up on completing it and others weren’t sure if they had done it correctly. Embark already had a lot of experience with simplifying and improving the college application experience, and it felt like we could apply our technology and user experience research to help out. That’s how we decided to launch College Cents, our free service that guides students and their families through the process of claiming government aid for school and finding the most affordable products to finance their education.
I think my time at the White House and the time our Partnerships Director, Devyn Gardner, spent at a Senate field office empowered us to see the government as an important, approachable stakeholder; we reached out to the Department of Education early on in the process for their guidance. And consulting was great training in understanding how to develop and launch new services. 
Growing the company has been a multi-year journey. But it’s been great sharing the experience with teammates like Devyn and our Engineering Director, Mike Turbé. I also feel like I’ve had a different job every year I’ve been here!
Sanyin: You weren’t just thinking about your own personal growth and evolution, but the evolution of the company, too. Innovating is one of the biggest challenges any organization can face, especially for one that’s been around since 1995. You’re coming up on five years as the CEO. How have you helped people launch through innovation? How do you help them evolve through changes when their habits might be fixed in the prior iteration?
Sarita: Those early years were rough, and the honest answer is that not everyone was ready to make the transition with us. Fortunately, some of our most experienced staff stayed on. I was transparent that we were looking for flexibility and comfort with failure—that we might try out multiple concepts, and some wouldn’t work.
I think that’s one of the exciting things about being at a smaller company. It’s easier to speak plainly with each other and say, “Hey, this concept isn’t working, so let’s try something else.” At a larger company it can be more difficult to steer the ship in a different direction when there are big budgets attached to specific proposals.
Sanyin: You are in a dual-entrepreneurship household. Your husband is an entrepreneur. The life with entrepreneurship is frenzied, and you often have so little control over your time. How do you guys work out the balance? You’re entrepreneurs, but you’re both also parents.
Sarita: Our children are now almost 4, 6, and 8 so it’s been a busy time! While you’re right that entrepreneurship can be chaotic, there’s still an opportunity to set the cadence and influence the schedule. I have much more control over my schedule now than I did as a management consultant. For example, we recently had a potential client in Hong Kong that I needed to chat with, but it was still up to me and the associate on our team to choose which evening of the week would work best. When I was a junior employee at a bigger firm, there wasn’t the same opportunity to influence the scheduling —sometimes I’d learn on a Friday I had to be in Montreal or Abu Dhabi on Monday.
My husband and I have also tried to simplify our logistics. We both recently moved our companies into different floors of 7 World Trade Center, which allows us to walk to work from our apartment downtown. Our kids go to the neighborhood public school so we can drop them off in the mornings. We’re very lucky to have both sets of our parents living in the city, and they are a big help.
Sanyin: The stats I had seen indicate Embark has powered more than 15 million applications for schools, colleges, and scholarships. Is that correct?
Sarita: Yes, that’s right. Having the feedback of half a million users at any one time is a big responsibility. It also energizes the team.
Sanyin: Let’s talk about the culture. Culture is such a key part of entrepreneurship and growing any company. You’re coming to Embark during its teenage years, and the teenage years are about expressing the values of our companies. But from what I’ve seen as an advisor for startups, Google Ventures, and Johnson & Johnson JLabs, the way we express our values when everyone is in the same room is different from how we express them when everyone is dispersed. Let’s go back to the basics. What is the mission of Embark? What are the top values?
Sarita: Our mission is to connect people with educational opportunity. Our values have to do with empathetic collaboration, flexibility, and continuous learning. We want everyone to take the time to get to know each other. And we want people to feel like they could stay here for many years because it usually takes that much time to get to the next stage of growth. If you have talented people, you want to find a way to make it engaging and sustainable for them.
Sanyin: In your background, you have received two patents for your work when you were at Microsoft. I hear a lot of questions from students in my work at Duke like, “How do you maintain ownership of one’s work while working on a team and sharing ideas with others? And how do you maintain ownership of the credit that you deserve?”
Sarita: In some ways, it’s mattered less since I've been at Embark (versus at a larger corporation) because we do feel like we're all in it together. And even as we partner with other companies, it’s less about the idea—which can be copied as soon as people hear it—than it is about the execution and how quickly we respond to changes in the landscape.
Sanyin: I couldn't agree with you more. A lot of times I tell them, "The idea you end up with is going to be very different already from the idea you start off with." And ideas are a dime a dozen. It's the execution. What you just shared encapsulates that perfectly.
So Sarita, you've had an amazing career. White House fellow, McKinsey, Citigroup. What advice would you give your 21-year-old as you reflect?
Sarita: As a 21-year-old, I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do because I loved so many different classes and was inspired by so many professors. I thought about being a journalist. I thought about going into technology. I thought about going directly into social service.
I learned over time that I enjoy technology focused on social impact. But each of the experiences I had in internships or in jobs got me closer to figuring out my primary field of interest. I think I’d worry less about figuring out exactly one thing I wanted to do. Not everyone is going to be like some of my closest friends who knew their professional callings back in middle school. Mine’s been a meandering path, but all of those experiences have shaped me and helped me in my current role.

        Takeaways:
      

        – Prioritize flexibility in times of transition. Look for employees who are comfortable with the idea of failure.
      

        – When looking for ways to innovate, remember that it’s easier to scale up and out from a preexisting model than it is to start from scratch.
      

        – Let your values and curiosity shape your career path, not a single end.
      
