
# You’ll be able to put more money into your 401(k) in 2020, but not your IRA

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:18:00+00:00**

Author: **Alessandra Malito**

Original: [MarketWatch](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/youll-be-able-to-put-more-money-into-your-401k-in-2020-but-not-your-ira-2019-11-06?amp%3Bsiteid=rss&amp%3Brss=1)

Americans will be able to save just a little bit more in some of their retirement accounts in 2020.
The Internal Revenue Service announced it is increasing its 401(k), 403(b) and most Thrift Savings Plans deferred contribution limit to $19,500 next year, up from $19,000 in 2019. Catch up contributions are also jumping $500, to $6,500 in 2020. That means Americans 50 years and older can contribute a total of $26,000 in 2020.
The maximum contribution for individual retirement accounts will remain at $6,000, as will the catch-up contribution for those accounts (at $1,000). SIMPLE plans are going up to $13,500 next year, from $13,000 in 2019.
The IRS has also adjusted the income limits for eligible deductions of IRA contributions. The phase-out range determines if a taxpayer can claim a deduction on their federal income tax return for their IRA contributions — someone who earns between the range would be limited in what they can claim, whereas someone earning past the range would not be able to claim a deduction. Taxpayers who are not covered by an employer-sponsored plan can deduct their contributions in full, according to the IRS.
The new limits, beginning Jan. 1, 2020, are as follows:
Roth IRAs, which are funded with after-tax dollars, have separate income limits and no deductions, and are held to these phase-out ranges for making contributions:
The total contribution limit to 401(k) and similar plans increased to $57,000, up from $56,000, and would include employee contributions as well as employer contributions.
Many Americans don’t max out their 401(k) plans. Only 13% of participants did so in 2017, when the limit was $18,000, according to a 2018 Vanguard report about its investors, and they were typically participants who had higher incomes, were older and had a longer tenure at their employers. Comparatively, 9.1% of Fidelity investors with a 401(k) plan had maxed out their accounts in 2018, up from 9% in 2017 and 8.1% at the end of 2013.
