
# The Crown season three review – Olivia Colman spreads regal rage on toast

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:00:05+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Mangan**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2019/nov/04/the-crown-season-three-review-olivia-colman-spreads-regal-rage-on-toast)

4 / 5 stars 4 out of 5 stars. Netflix’s stately saga returns with 10 cracking episodes, a top-notch cast – and a new queen taking her frustrations out on the breakfast
We open with some angry marmalading. The 38-year-old queen (Olivia Colman, replacing Claire Foy) has seen the updated profile pictures for the stamps’n’money, reflecting her transition from novice monarch to “settled sovereign”, as her private secretary delicately puts it, and is taking her feelings out on the toast. It’s as expressive as the top Windsor is allowed to get.
The Crown is back for its third season, starting in 1964 and ending 13 years later with the silver jubilee. There’s a lot to get through and it wastes no time doing so, while somehow never going at more than a very stately pace indeed. A royal’s trick if ever there was one.
It is not the only conundrum presented by The Crown. The main one is: what is it? A soap? With all the personal dramas, behind-the-scenes machinations and a natural Joan Collins figure in Princess Margaret (now played, with magnificently casual disdain, by Helena Bonham Carter), it certainly lathers well. Is it prestige television? The money up on screen, the attention to detail, the hewing to British constitutional history and the dragooning of every respected member of British Equity suggest so.
How much artistic licence has been taken? Impossible to tell, unless the royals have been your jam for a long time (though I doubt the coup supposedly planned against Harold Wilson’s government ever got beyond a few Carlton Club types’ masturbatory fantasies). Is it good or bad? Yes. On the one hand, it’s tremendous. You’re riveted. By the relentlessly top-notch performances (Tobias Menzies as Prince Philip gets and relishes all the best lines, but also deserves special mention for his portrait of a charming, brutal, wounded man), the cracking story and frisson of forbidden knowledge. And on the other, it has the action stop every 12 minutes or so – usually for a new prime minister to come for his first audience with the Queen, or a state dinner at which somebody under-informed sits next to someone fully informed – for a chunk of exposition so we all know who everybody is, what ramifications of the next bit of monarcho-political chicanery are being considered and whether it’s anything we remember from real life yet.
