
# Things to do today in Bengaluru

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/things-to-do-today-in-bengaluru/articleshow/71858377.cms)

Pop and lock Freeze, India’s rawest hip-hop festival, is back in the city for the 11th time and this time, it’s bigger and better. It features international DJs – Fleg from the USA, Nobunaga from Netherlands and the legendary B-boy Storm from Germany. Come, witness the best B-boys from across Asia battle it out for the top spot, plus special acts by the Jordindian & Black Ice Crew. WHERE: Courtyard, Phoenix Marketcity, Whitefield WHEN: 12pm onwards, November 2-3 ENTRY: `200-`399, insider.in Drag night Move over Halloween, because it’s time for Drag-O-Ween. What’s that? An entertaining, musical mad house as the ‘Distorted Drag Queen Hungry’ is all set to make her second appearance at this venue. Her aura is the perfect fit. Plus, there will be performances by Betta Naan Stop, Zeeshan Ali, and Lady Bai. WHERE: The Lalit Ashok, Kumara Krupa Road WHEN: 8pm onwards, November 2 CALL: 9980158286 Stay sustainable The time has come for each of us to think about sustainable living seriously. To that effect, this curated pop-up market is bringing upcycled fashion and furnishing, ethical clothing and accessories, recycled home linen and quirky products, kids art on sustainable T-shirts, recycled waste paper products, sustainable personal care, and home care products and more. WHERE: The Courtyard, # 105, KH Road (Lalbagh Double Road), opposite Corporation Bank, Shanti Nagar WHEN: 11am-5pm, November 2 ENTRY: Free Bollywood fever As the name suggests, Aaja Nachle is a Bollywood party. So whether you’ve got the moves like Jagger or you can throw thumkas like Madhuri Dixit, there’s room for all kinds of movers and shakers and foot-tappers at this party. WHERE: Indigo XP, HSR Layout, Sector 6 WHEN: 8pm, November 2 CALL: 43370080 Sketch to win This cafe’s got an exciting challenge for people who like to sketch. Here it goes: Sketch your favourite superhero, upload it on their Instagram account and tag them. The sketch that gets maximum likes as well as points from their in-house superhero experts, it will be adjudged the best and win prize. WHERE: Cafe Down The Alley, Banashankari WHEN: 5pm onwards, November 2 ENTRY: `100 A solo show The Battle Within is a 70-minute-long, solo dance creation inspired by the Bhagavad Gita. Conceptualised and choreographed by Malavika Sarukkai, it traces the epic discourse between Arjuna and Krishna, one that encompasses both the human and the divine and operates on both the micro and the macro levels. WHERE: Chowdiah Memorial Hall, Malleshwaram WHEN: November 2 ENTRY: `249, bookmyshow.com A festival for women The Raintree Women’s Cultural Festival 2019 opens today. It is a colourful celebration of feminine energy and creativity, which has on its roster edgy performances, art interventions, award-winning short films, concerts, open mic, children’s specials. This edition is unique because it is a registered partner of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal 5 that seeks to achieve gender equality. WHERE: Bangalore International Centre, Domlur II Stage WHEN: 10am-6pm, November 2-3 ENTRY: undertheraintreefestival.com Small wonder Studies suggest that microgreens may contain 40% higher concentrations of nutrients compared with mature vegetables and herbs. Due to their high antioxidant content, microgreens are considered functional food, a food that promotes health or prevents disease. Join this workshop and learn to grow microgreens at home. WHERE: Village Story, Agrahara WHEN: 3pm-5pm, November 2 Entry: `599, eventshigh.com Tap your feet Artist, producer and DJ Gaurav Mehta has amassed a huge legion of fans, thanks to his energetic sets of hip hop, trap and bass house. A few highlights of his journey would be his contribution to shows such as Kygo (Sunburn Arena), Vini Vici (Dance Affair Arena), Bass Jackers (Mood Indigo), Nucleya (Sub Cinema), the India tour with Time Out, etc. Dance to his beats tonight. WHERE: 1Q1 Kitchen & Bar, No 1, Express Building, Queens Road WHEN: 9.30pm, November 2 Entry: `2,500 per couple Double delight One venue, two deejays. Can the Saturday night revelry get any better? Harshit Chachra aka DJ Khefe describes himself as the chapman of deep, infectious dance grooves and maker of beautiful synth work, ethereal backdrops, brooding basslines, and occasional vocal hooks. Whereas, Nitish aka DJ Chalk is a pitchman of minimal, sinister grooves and surreal sonic experiences, which comprise dark and melodic sounds. WHERE: Sanchez, UB City, Vittal Mallya Road WHEN: 9pm, on November 2 CALL: 8553077550 Poems on demand Cab on demand. Food on demand. Grocery on demand. These are passé. At this unique event, you can demand a bunch of artistes to write poems just for you. Yes, The Poetry Vendors is just about that, and composing poems for you on Sunday will be poets Aparajeeta Pradhan, Chandrama Deshmukh, Chandrakant Redican, Richa Priyanka, Trupthi Shetty, Lathashree KS. What's the thought behind this event? It's simple. Poets write for themselves, to express what they are feeling at the moment. So for a change, they want to write for you – to express what you are feeling at the moment, not just in English, but Kannada, Hindi and other languages too. Pay them as you like. WHERE: Katte, HAL 2nd Stage, Indiranagar WHEN: 11am-1pm, November 3 Entry: `100, insider.in To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
