
# UFC 244 Results: Jairzinho Rosentruik Destroys Andrei Arlovski (VIDEO) With Destructive Left Hand

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/02/ufc-244-results-jairzinho-rosentruik-destroys-andrei-arlovski-video-with-destructive-left-hand/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Surinamese heavyweight Jairzinho Rozenstruik needed only 29 seconds to dismiss Andrei Arlovski on Saturday night at UFC 244. Rozenstruik electrified the Madison Square Garden crowd with this huge left hook that landed on Arlovski’s ear, and sent him face first to the canvas.
Here is how the MMA community responded to Rozenstruik’s KO win. Many are calling for him to face Alistair Overeem in his next fight.
Neither Rozenstruik nor Arlovski were ranked heading into this fight, but that could change for Bigi Boy. From the opening horn, Rozenstruik was setting up hard counter shots. The first big one to find the mark put Arlovski out.
The win pushed Rozenstruik’s professional record to 9-0 with 8 KOs.
Arlovski drops to falls to 28-19. At 40 years old, it’s clear Arlovski is in the twilight of his career. This was clearly an example of two fighters heading in different directions.
I’d expect to see Rozenstruik in the Octagon with a ranked opponent in his next fight. Because he worked less than a minute on Saturday, he might be a candidate for a quick turnaround before the end of the year. A clash with Overeem might be moving a little too quickly, but almost every MMA fan would likely love to see it happen.
Rozenstruik facing the winner of Greg Hardy-Alexander Volkov isn’t a bad idea
Rozenstruik has a chance to capture a Performance of the Night bonus with his finish, but there are a lot of fights still left on the card.
