
# Benzino: A Brief History Of Beef

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Jibril Yassin**

Original: [hnhh](https://www.hotnewhiphop.com/benzino-a-brief-history-of-beef-news.94641.html)

Calling Ray Benzino a professional agitator might be putting it politely. Over the years, he’s had a number of different titles: hip-hop executive, CEO and co-owner of The Source, Love and Hip-Hop star, Almighty RSO leader and most infamously, he's been at the losing end of a rap feud with Eminem. His recent appearance on Noreaga's Drink Champs podcast had us wondering about this. For years, the man has held a place in the world of hip-hop as one of its most divisive characters. Is Benzino the kind of guy who will fight with anyone or is he really that passionate about the culture?Without further ado, here’s everything to know about each notable Benzino beef. We’re counting rap beefs only: sorry Love and Hip-Hop: Atlanta fans!
In the ‘90s, The Source was rap’s bible and Benzino’s pull with the revered mag would be a major catalyst in his larger disputes. His association with the magazine began in the ‘80s when he met founder Dave Mays in Boston. Mays would begin to manage Benzino’s group the Almighty RSO and in 1994, he would use his power to publish a glowing profile in The Source. This move sparked the ire of his staffers, who all walked out. Benzino would later become co-owner in 1996. This was kept off The Source’s masthead for the rest of the decade, not being revealed until after 2003.
As The Source grew from small magazine startup to the iconic '90s spread it become known for, Benzino would use his pull to secure higher ratings for his own projects, with Made Men's Classic Limited Edition getting 4 and a half mics when it was released in 1999. Benzino would use the magazine to further propel his career, much to the ire of other rappers in the industry.
Benzino and Mays would be forced out of the magazine a few short years after. The rise of XXL and the fall out of Benzino’s beef with Eminem would indirectly tarnish the reputation of The Source, a move the magazine has yet to recover from.
Allegedly, a two-mic review for Drag-On in The Source was enough to upset numerous Ruff Ryders members. This culminated in a brawl during the Boston show of the 2000 Cash Money/Ruff Ryders tour between the entire Ruff Ryders crew, the LOX and local support Made Men, Benzino’s group. Words were exchanged and before long, a backstage brawl kicked off. Six people were hurt in the brawl, five of them stabbed and the show cancelled. The incident was also mentioned in Eminem’s diss “Go to Sleep” which featured DMX.
As quickly as the beef flared, it also disappear just as fast – nobody involved attempted to escalate things after the Boston show. Benzino would later reach out to Jadakiss to collab as a way to put water under the bridge. The LOX ended up discussing the incident on the RapRadar podcast, claiming that the police warned them they should have killed Benzino. Uhh what??
