
# Mobile thieves bashed up in Frazer Town

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Amit Kumar**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/mobile-thieves-bashed-up-in-frazer-town/articleshow/71930474.cms)

A Frazer Town resident saved the day by chasing and catching a couple of men who had just snatched a mobile and thrashed them on Sunday night. Other residents also helped the man and beat up the two culprits, who managed to escape in the melee. They left their scooter behind and it was handed over to the police. Around 9.30 pm, a local resident, Fedrick Andrew (27), was returning after meeting his cousin near Coles Park, when he heard a shout for help. A student, 20-year-old Vijay, had raised an alarm after his mobile was snatched by two miscreants, who were on a scooter. Fedrick noticed the men on the scooter and chased them on his scooter for almost seven minutes. The miscreants tried to escape by entering a petrol bunk, but Fedrick went behind them and caught hold of them. Along with the other people at the petrol bunk, Fedrick cornered the two men and thrashed the duo and managed to get the mobile back. The people then called the cops, but the duo ran off by pushing one person in the crowd. They were allegedly under the influence of marijuana. Fedrick told BM the men were aged between 18-20 years. “We caught hold of them, but they still managed to escape from the crowd. I had parked my bike in the middle of the road, so I had to go to park it properly and the duo escaped from the petrol bunk. We searched for them but then didn’t find them. The bike they had used for the mobile-snatching was a stolen one.” An police official said the stolen bike was registered at the Ashok Nagar police station. An FIR has been registered at the Frazer Town police station under Section 392 (Punishment for robbery) of the IPC.
