
# Behind the BBC equal pay case is an assumption about whom we cherish

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:00:11+00:00**

Author: **Gaby Hinsliff**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/01/bbc-equal-pay-samira-ahmed-women-men)


        Samira Ahmed’s battle is essentially about who makes the decisions, and why they seem to judge women to be less likeable than men
      
When Samira Ahmed got home from what must have been a difficult day of battling with her employer in public, at least it was not to an empty house. “Curry calls to curry everywhere,” the BBC presenter joked, over a tweeted image of a bunch of flowers in suffragette colours sent by a friend and plastic containers of food delivered by her mum. Like the crowd of BBC colleagues walking with her to her equal pay hearing, there was something cheering about the gesture of solidarity, but something heartbreaking, too, about its necessity. What makes equal pay cases so hard is that they’re not just about the money, but often about something far more excruciating to discuss in public: the unspoken assumptions about who is cherished and who isn’t; who gets to be feted as the office rising star and who is treated like part of the furniture.
Officially the case revolves around whether the £440 Ahmed gets per episode to present Newswatch – a BBC News Channel show analysing audience reactions to its programmes – is fair given Jeremy Vine got £3,000 to present Points of View, which involves roughly the same thing except on BBC One. But the broader public row it has ignited is nowhere near that simple. The BBC has fought its corner not just by arguing that one show is more “niche” than the other – although Ahmed’s actually gets more viewers – but that the two presenters fill different roles. Her show needs a trained journalist, but Vine was paid the really big bucks to be “the audience’s friend”. Translation: she’s doing a skilled job, but he is radiating a far more mysterious and likable quality that makes viewers feel at home with him, and just happens to be strangely unquantifiable on paper.
Likability is such a slippery concept for women, perhaps especially for women of colour, because it’s so often the shelter beneath which all sorts of kneejerk prejudices lurk. For years, Hollywood justified its glaring pay gap by claiming that there weren’t enough female or black actors capable of packing them in at the box office. Nothing personal, obviously, but female leads couldn’t expect the really big sums commanded by their male counterparts, because audiences just didn’t seem to enjoy watching them quite so much. That argument began to crumble only when women climbed high enough up the ladder both to risk casting other women, and to start demanding more concrete proof of men’s supposedly irresistible appeal.
As the actor Reese Witherspoon, who set up her own production company in exasperation with the output of mainstream studios, put it recently: “Streaming services using data to discover what people want to watch has changed my entire career, and allowed women to be valued in a way we never have before.” It turns out audiences are only too happy to sit through a show that doesn’t revolve around a man, so long as it’s the right show, which raises awkward questions about why a male-dominated industry ever thought differently.
And it doesn’t just happen in showbusiness. Hillary Clinton was dogged throughout the 2016 presidential election campaign by arguments that she wasn’t “likable” enough to win, yet few voters could explain exactly what made her so much more hateful than Donald Trump, an egomaniac dogged by accusations of sexual assault. A man can be endorsed by Ku Klux Klan chiefs and still win, but woe betide a woman who doesn’t smile enough. What’s likable in a man, meanwhile, is often deemed rather less so in a woman; everyone loves Ken Clarke’s refusal to take himself too seriously, but a female chancellor who confessed as cheerfully as he did to not having read the Maastricht treaty would surely have been eaten alive.
And after decades of writing about politics, I still find the process by which rising stars are identified surprisingly hard to describe and sometimes to justify. A consensus about who has charisma and who doesn’t, who chimes with voters and who leaves them cold, emerges by a kind of osmosis: journalists pounce on the names they hear from MPs, pollsters test the leadership contenders who keep cropping up in the papers, bookies adjust their odds depending on what everyone else is saying and everyone then tries to second-guess what a public riddled with its own prejudices wants to see standing on the steps of Downing Street. It would be a miracle if that process of names bubbling up from the Westminster gloop wasn’t coloured by all our unconscious assumptions, and it might be hard to explain on a witness stand.
But it’s arguably just an exaggerated version of what goes on in all walks of life, whenever decisions are being made within a company about who to watch for reasons that are at best hazy and at worst downright prejudiced. Sam Smethers, chief executive of equality charity the Fawcett Society, compares the assumptions so often made about the value of women’s work to a raggedy jumper: pull on the right thread, and it’s surprising how fast the whole thing unravels.
And that’s exactly what equal pay legislation exists to do. The magic of a tribunal is that it puts the onus not on mortified women to prove they’re worth it, but on employers to provide objective reasons for the salary decisions they make – and if they can’t, to make good the damage. Whatever becomes of Ahmed’s case, or the dozens like it that are said to be waiting in the wings against the BBC, she has done us all a service by triggering what should be a much wider conversation about who is valued and why. For once you start looking, there are threads dangling everywhere, just asking to be pulled.
• Gaby Hinsliff is a Guardian columnist
