
# ISL 2019-20 | The manner in which we lost was disappointing, laments Phil Brown

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:34:38+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/07/isl-2019-20-the-manner-in-which-we-lost-was-disappointing-laments-phil-brown?utm_medium=rss)


        Hyderabad FC head coach Phil Brown has lamented the manner in which Hyderabad lost to NorthEast United by a solitary goal despite getting numerous chances on Wednesday in Hyderabad. The coach also blamed the lack of quality in the attacking third while applauding the efforts of the youngsters.
      
Injury-laden Hyderabad FC lost to visitors NorthEast United FC by a late penalty goal at the GMC Balayogi Athletic Stadium in Hyderabad on Wednesday. It was the handball foul of Shankar Sampingraj that led to the penalty in the 86th minute. Highlanders’ Argentine forward Maximiliano Barreiro didn’t fail from the shot.
However, it was Hyderabad FC who dominated most of the game with more chances upfront but they missed quality in the attacking third and the English coach Brown pointed out the same. 
“The manner in which we lost was disappointing, but it was also not the right result. By half-time, we created one or two decent chances. A young group of players who were trying their best for Hyderabad FC, but that lack of quality in the final third showed tonight,” Brown said at the post-match conference, ISL website reported.
“They have to realize how important it is when chances do come along. I thought the first goal was going to be important tonight. And the way it came, I thought it was harsh. And now we have to pick ourselves up and go into the international break. We’ve only got three points from four games. We have to come back in our fifth match in the Hero ISL and make sure we have our strongest team available to us.” Brown further added.
Hyderabad FC was the dominating side in the first half with regularly attacking at the NorthEast post. However, the match was balanced after a few changes made by Highlanders coach Robert Jarni made in the second half. 
“I thought we deserved to get a minimum of one point from the game… I don’t think they came to get a point from the first half. I thought we were the better team come half-time. And then they made two changes and that was a forced change because of our style of play in the first half. We had two or three chances in the first half. At half-time, I fancied us to go on and win the game. So, I am sitting here disappointed not to have got three points.” the English coach said.
While lauding the youngsters for their efforts, the coach also expressed his disappointment with the quality in the attacking third. “They are trying everything they possibly can. But at times, you are looking around for a quality, you are looking around for that little bit of hold up play in the final third. The inexperience actually showed up tonight. But it wasn’t for the want of trying. I thought the effort was there. The nous is just missing.” said Brown.
Hyderabad FC are also heavily suffering from injuries to their key foreign players Rafael Lopez, Giles Barnes, and Bobo, while Spanish midfielder Nestor Gordillo is suspended.
“I think we are having a run of bad luck at the moment where injuries are concerned. It’s not just injuries to small players. It’s injuries to key players. It’s injuries to players who will be our first choice. Having said that after the last game, the effort and the determination that the players showed me and showed Hyderabad, was rewarded again tonight.” the coach concluded.
