
# Tribute to top umpire and 'local hero' Bill from Perth

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:41:33+00:00**

Author: **Perthshire Advertiser, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/perthshire-advertiser/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/tribute-top-umpire-local-hero-20814682)

Tributes have been paid to a Perth man who had a distinguished sporting career, officiating at the highest levels in both tennis and football.
Bill MacDonald was a familiar figure in the umpire’s chair at the Wimbledon tennis championships and was a SFA referee and linesman at many matches both in Scotland and abroad.
Aged 85, he died at Craigieknowes Care Home, Perth, on October 22 and his funeral was held at Perth Crematorium last Thursday, October 30.
Speaking at his funeral, independent celebrant Susan Chown described him as a “local hero and a real character.”
She added: “He used his talents and skills as much and as well as he possibly could, for as long as he possibly could.
“He maintained the highest standards for himself and for those around him.”
In a life that brought both ‘challenges and fulfilment,’ he was born in Crieff.
He was big brother to Lily and Roderick, known as Derick, and the three of them were brought up in Perth.
Bill and Lily were evacuated during the war and went to stay with their granny in Bonar Bridge for a time.
After leaving school, Bill completed his two years’ National Service and was posted to Egypt. When he returned to Scotland he became involved with the Air Training Corps for a time.
He worked as a salesman and warehouse manager before moving to Dicksons of Perth and then General Accident Insurance, where he remained until he retired.
He married Jean Craig Brown in 1956, and had three children - Brian, Carol, and Derek. Tragically, Jean died in 1983 at the age of just 46.
In 1985 Bill married Mary Thatcher and they were together for 15 years before they went their separate ways.
In his younger days, Bill played football for Stanley, Jeanfield Swifts and Perth Celtic but he went on to carve out a successful career as a referee and linesman.
He was regularly seen at the former Muirton Park and one of his trips abroad involved him running the line in Spain at the match between Real Madrid and Ajax.
Bill had always been a St Johnstone fan and he commented on home games at McDiarmid Park for Perth Hospital Radio for over 20 years.
Bill was also a keen tennis player and a much-valued member of the Darnhall Bowling and Tennis Club.
Through the Scottish Lawn Tennis Association, Bill graduated up the ranks and in the 1970s and 1980s, his particular skills allowed him to officiate at Wimbledon.
His talents took him to the Centre Court and Court Number One and he officiated at matches involving the likes of Martina Navratilova, Virginia Wade, Bjorn Borg, John McEnroe and Ilie Nastase.
Bill later became friends with Nastase although it might have worked out differently after the encounter they had on Centre Court.
“Nastase was known for being temperamental and, on that occasion, he didn’t like the decision that Bill had made,” explained Susan.
“He duly called him an ‘English pig umpire.’ Bill’s response was to correct him and point out that he was in fact a ‘Scottish pig umpire.’
“Bill then showed him a red card, much to the delight of the crowd and all those at home who understood Bill’s football refereeing background.”
Bill went on to have his own column in the Perthshire Advertiser where he would comment on the local tennis scene under the by-line of ‘Ace.’
He also loved golf and was an active member of Craigie Hill Golf Club, becoming greens convener there.
Bill was proud to become a grandfather when son Brian and his wife Fiona had two daughters, Lisa and Kim, and daughter Carol had Adam.
