
# Wail to the Chief: Trump Says His Wife Melania Wouldn’t ‘Cry Her Eyes Out’ If He Were Shot

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:00:55+00:00**

Author: **by Svetlana Ekimenko**

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/viral/201911011077195741-wail-to-the-chief-trump-says-his-wife-melania-wouldnt-cry-her-eyes-out-if-he-were-shot/)


        A private dinner was hosted on 29 October at US President Donald Trump’s hotel in Washington, DC, for House Republicans who fundraised the most, and reportedly featured a lengthy speech from the president that digressed into a roast of GOP members.
      
The US President raised some eyebrows during a private fundraiser at the Trump Hotel in Washington DC, which was attended by House Republicans on Tuesday night, writes Politico.
As the attendees - House Republicans who had conducted the most lucrative fundraising - dined on steak, mashed potatoes, and asparagus, the president was said to have launched an hour-long unscripted speech, where he roasted some of the GOP members, as well as his own wife, Melania.
During his outpouring, Trump used the near-fatal shooting of House Minority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) in 2017 during a congressional softball game to apparently take a dig at the first lady.
Trump reportedly started by noting how tough Scalise was, while warning against getting shot as a weight-loss strategy.
Trump then said Scalise’s wife “cried her eyes out when I met her at the hospital that fateful day… I mean not many wives would react that way to tragedy. I know mine wouldn’t.”
Twitter’s reaction to the remark was quite uniform, for once, as many online folks agreed with Trump’s words.
