
# Tarania Clarke: Jamaica women’s international dies after Kingston stabbing incident

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:41:16+00:00**

Author: **Mark Critchley**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/womens_football/tarania-clarke-dead-jamaica-reggae-girlz-a9181901.html)

Tarania Clarke, the Jamaica international, has died after a stabbing incident in Kingston.
The 20-year-old midfielder was involved in a dispute over a mobile phone on Thursday, police said. A woman has been arrested.
Clarke played for Waterhouse in the Jamaica Women’s League and scored on her full international debut in a 12-1 win over Cuba in September.
In a statement to BBC Sport, Jamaican Football Federation [JFF] president Michael Ricketts said he was “deeply saddened” by Clarke’s death.
“I must use this opportunity to personally, and certainly on behalf of the JFF, extend my most profound condolences to the immediate family members and friends of Ms Clarke, her school family at Excelsior and, of course, her club Waterhouse,” Ricketts said.
“The JFF must give as much support as we can during this time of bereavement to her mother and close friends.”
The JFF tweeted: “The JFF mourns the loss of Tarania Clarke who was injured and sadly passed away last night having succumbed to her injuries.
“We express our deepest condolences to her family and friends during this very challenging time. Jamaica’s female football suffers a significant loss as she was a very talented player.”
