
# Brooks: Glenbow wows with fall exhibits

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:00:22+00:00**

Author: **Bill Brooks, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/entertainment/local-arts/brooks-glenbow-wows-with-fall-exhibits)

Your faithful social scribe was kept busier than usual Oct. 19 popping back and forth between two events. Thankfully, they were within metres of each other.
The evening started at the Glenbow Museum and Archives for the exclusive VIP opening of its fall 2019 season. A select group of guests gathered to be the first to view a major retrospective celebrating the life and career of artist Sybil Andrews (189-1992). Andrews’ artwork was rediscovered by the art world in the 1970s-’80s and her original prints are highly coveted by collectors. Glenbow’s connection with Andrews began in the early 1980s, when the museum organized an exhibition of her linocuts. As a result of this interest in her work, Andrews gifted more than 500 of her artworks to Glenbow, as well as the contents of her studio, which included personal papers and objects, making Glenbow the major study centre for Andrews’ life and work. Apt indeed her work would headline Glenbow’s fall 2019 season.
Additional exhibitions unveiled this night included: Extraordinary Objects, curated by Sarah Todd; Gerald Ferguson, also curated by Sarah Todd; and One New Work, Nicole Kelly Westman, curated by Nancy Tousley. The opening also featured a special commissioned performance by Land’s End Ensemble, inspired by Sybil Andrews. Kudos to Walt and Irene DeBoni on commissioning the performance. Others in attendance this night included: Humboldt Capital Corporation president and CEO Bob Lamond and his wife Mary; Glenbow board chair Irfhan Rawji and his wife Christine Armstrong; Trepanier Baer Gallery’s Yves Trepanier and his wife, BDP’s Cheryl Gottselig; Masters Gallery’s Ryan Green; Glenbow board member Zai Mamdani; Pound Global’s Colleen Pound; Deloitte’s Leigh-Anne Palter; Glenbow past board chair Jim McLeod; Viviane Art’s Viviane Mehr; and Alberta University of the Arts (formerly ACAD) alumni Melissa Skowron.
