
# Virus spillover may be occurring between bats and humans: Study

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/virus-spillover-may-be-occurring-between-bats-and-humans-study/articleshow/71859626.cms)

A new study conducted by the Bengaluru-based National Centre of Biological Sciences (NCBS) along with two other health institutions has found that the transmission of viruses from one species to another may be occurring between bats and humans. The collaborative study by NCBS, Duke-NUS Medical School, Singapore and Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS) has found that virus spillover – the transmission of viruses from one species to another – may be occurring between bats and humans in Nagaland. The study published in the scientific journal PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases, reaffirms the importance of virus surveillance at wildlife and human interfaces where the risk of virus spillover (transmission) may be highest. According to NCBS tropical areas where hunted wildlife often supplements the locals’ meagre diets – such as in Africa, South and Southeast Asia – are hotspots for pathogen spillovers. During such spillovers, viruses from hunted wild animals or ‘bush meat’ infect humans and can lead to large scale outbreaks. In Nagaland, bat-hunting is practised by the Bomrr, a clan of the Longpfurii Yimchungii sub-tribe. According to their narratives, the Bomrrs have been holding a bat-harvesting festival in mid-October, with the seven generations. “During the harvesting, which usually lasts for two to three days, the Bomrr clam smoke out entire caves in which the bats roost and the hunters are often scratched and bitten by bats trying to escape the smoky cave, exposing them to viruses shed by the bats,” said Pilot Dovih, the study’s lead author. In this study, two species of bats, as well as humans engaged in hunting these bats, were found to have been exposed to viruses in the family Filoviridae, which includes Ebola and Marburg viruses. Although antibodies against two and three distinct filoviruses were found in the human and bat blood samples, no viral genetic material was detected in the samples. The pattern of reactivity of anti-filovirus antibodies carried by the humans was similar to those found in one bat species, which makes these bats the most probable source of the viral spillover event.
