
# 'Mentality monsters' - Liverpool star's brutal Aston Villa verdict

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:52:33+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/liverpool-jordan-henderson-aston-villa-17204522)

Liverpool midfielder Jordan Henderson wants his side to start deciding games earlier.
Fans on social media have praised the Reds for showing their nerve late on in games, dubbing Jurgen Klopp's European champions the 'mentality monsters'.
That was no more evident than on Saturday at Villa Park, when Liverpool came from 1-0 down to beat Aston Villa 2-1 with two goals at the death.
The Reds were trailing 1-0 thanks to Mahmoud Trezeguet 's 21st minute strike and had a Roberto Firmino goal chalked off for offside four minutes later.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Liverpool kept their cool, though, and dragged themselves back into the contest thanks to goals from Andy Robertson and Sadio Mane in the 87th and 94th minutes respectively.
However, he wants his side to veer away from comebacks and kill games early on.
“Part of being ‘mentality monsters’ is that you challenge yourselves and always look at where you can be better," the Reds skipper said, writing in his programme notes for tonight's Champions League clash with Genk as reported by the Mirror .
"As a team, do we like the fact that our mindset is ‘keep going and never submit’? Yes, of course. But I would also like to think we’d look at those numbers and set ourselves the task of not putting ourselves in the position in the first place.
“Comebacks make for great television, but it’s on us as a squad to address the issue of falling behind in games.
 
"We want to be a side that dominates teams and takes total control of a game. We’ve proved time and time again we can do that, but clearly at the moment we haven’t been doing enough to make sure we are in a dominant position on the scoreboard for longer periods.
“There are many reasons you can find yourselves behind in a game and some of them are beyond your control. The opposition might be on fire and have a player who scores an absolute ‘worldie’. You can also get bad luck, by which I mean a bounce of a ball or a poor decision.
“But the truth is, the majority of the time a team goes behind is because they haven’t done the right things in that moment.
"And we as a team will look to address that."
