
# A Big Night for Democrats

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:41:06+00:00**

Author: **David Leonhardt**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/06/opinion/kentucky-virginia-elections-democrats.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)


        This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can 
        
          sign up here
        
         to receive it each weekday.
      
“He’s tried to rip health care away from our families, and he’s cutting public education,” Andy Beshear, Kentucky’s Democratic candidate for governor, said about his Republican opponent Gov. Matt Bevin in a TV ad.
It’s a strategy we’ve seen before from Democrats — namely, in the 2018 midterms: Portray Republican incumbents as extremists who are hurting ordinary families and instead promise common-sense solutions. The strategy has proved highly effective, too. Last night, Beshear evidently pulled off a big upset, beating Bevin in a state that voted for Donald Trump by 30 percentage points. Beshear leads by 5,000 votes, or 0.4 percentage points, in the latest count, and he has claimed victory.
“As it turns out, when the governor slashes social programs in one of the poorest states in America, voters don’t want to re-elect him. Even if the president tells them to,” The Atlantic’s Alex Wagner wrote. It’s also a reminder, Slate’s Jordan Weissmann wrote, that “Obamacare and Medicaid are fairly popular for all their flaws and fixing/expanding them rather than starting from scratch is probably a good national policy pitch.”
Take note, Democratic presidential candidates.

        More on the election
         …
      
A few other themes from last night’s elections:

        If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can 
        
          subscribe here
        
        . You can also join me on 
        
          Twitter (@DLeonhardt)
        
         and 
        
          Facebook
        
        .
      

        Follow The New York Times Opinion section on 
        
          Facebook
        
        , 
        
          Twitter (@NYTopinion)
        
         and 
        
          Instagram
        
        .
      

        Continue reading the main story
      
