
# Sobbing girl, 12, calls police after mum overdoses on heroin while driving car

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:33:25+00:00**

Author: **Chiara Fiorillo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/sobbing-girl-12-calls-police-20807158)

A 12-year-old girl called police in tears after her mum overdosed on heroin while driving the family car.
Tiffany Smith, 28, of Deltona, Florida, was pulled over while driving on a major road with three kids in her vehicle last Thursday.
Her sobbing daughter called 911 begging for help as she tried to make sure the vehicle was parked properly on a grass verge.
“My mom won’t wake up and we’re on I-4 in the car!" she said.
“I put it in “N” because I don’t know how to put it in ‘Park,’" the girl added, according to Volusia County Sheriff's Office.
The 12-year-old was with her two brothers, aged seven and one, and two dogs, when her mother overdosed in the vehicle.
Emergency services arrived at the scene at around 7pm and found the woman unconscious, according to The Sun .
Smith got a shot of Narcan, a spray used to treat overdoses, and later recovered consciousness in an ambulance, the force said as it released bodycam footage of the incident.
“I honestly took heroin because my back was hurting,” Smith told an officer while on a stretcher in the back of the ambulance, The New York Post reports.
“Heroin? Is that something you should be taking for your back?” an officer asked her.
“It’s not,” Smith mumbled, adding: “But I had no painkiller and my back was hurting and I was making a five-hour trip.”
The woman was charged with child neglect but was not immediately jailed as she was treated at a hospital in Orange City.
She was said to be in a stable condition, according to a statement.
The three children were not injured and were placed in the custody of their grandmother, the sheriff's office said.
Volusia County Animal Control officers took the two dogs, investigators added.
