
# Fortnite star Ninja claims Epic Games was 'too heavy-handed' with ban of Brit teen

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:15:12+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/fortnite-star-ninja-claims-epic-20822130)

He’s one of the biggest names in the gaming industry, and now Fortnite star Ninja has waded into the debate of whether Jarvis Kaye should have been banned from Fortnite.
Jarvis, known as FaZe Jarvis, broadcast a video of him using ‘aimbots’ - a tactic that is banned on Fortnite - to his two million YouTube subscribers.
Epic Games, the developer behind Fortnite, immediately banned Jarvis from the game, sparking a fierce debate of whether cheating should result in a permanent ban.
Now, Ninja has leapt to Jarvis’ defence, claiming that Epic Games’ punishment was ‘too heavy-handed.’
 
He said: “He’s still super young, so I think he’s just a stupid kid making a stupid decision, and didn’t really think about it.
“It wasn’t a tournament, wasn’t a Cash Cup, it should be maybe a six-month ban from competitive. Permanent though?”
Jarvis has over two million subscribers on YouTube, who regularly tune in to see the youngster playing Fortnite.
 
Ninja claims that this large following should be a reason for Epic Games not to permanently ban him.
He added: “Without your content creators, there’s a negative impact on your game.
“I think (what he did) was incredibly stupid, but a permanent ban is just silly. What else is he going to play?
“He has to transition over from one of the most popular games, and one that’s made him skill-wise, and career-wise, and now he has to play another game.”
Ninja also drew comparisons with YouTuber Logan Paul, who drew controversy last year for point g a video showing dead bodies in Japan’s ‘Suidcide Forest’.
He said: “Logan Paul literally filmed someone hanging in a forest and his channel didn’t get banned and he’s been perfectly fine.
“In that aspect, he was a YouTuber, a big one, and he didn’t get banned. YouTube decided that he was big enough to not get banned.”
Mirror Online has contacted Epic Games for comment.
