
# English councils deal with more than 1m fly-tipping cases

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:55:08+00:00**

Author: **PA Media**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/society/2019/nov/07/english-councils-dealt-with-1m-fly-tipping-incidents-last-year)


        Defra figures show 8% rise over last year, with most cases involving household rubbish
      
Councils had to clear up more than a million incidents of fly-tipping last year in England, as figures show the problem continues to rise.
Local authorities reported 1,072,000 incidents in 2018-19, up 8% on the 998,000 cases in 2017-18, the latest statistics from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) revealed.
Nearly two-thirds (62%) of fly-tipping cases involved household rubbish, ranging from black bags to the debris from house and shed clearances, old furniture and carpets and waste from small-scale DIY projects.
The rubbish was most commonly dumped on roads and pavements, accounting for almost half the incidents reported.
A third of all the incidents (33%) were the size of a small vanload, with 30% the equivalent of a “car boot or less”. Single items, such as mattresses or pieces of furniture, made up just under a fifth (18%).
Rubbish dumped illegally included tens of thousands of cases of demolition and construction waste, white goods, garden waste and electrical items.
Defra urged care over the data, as many local authorities have altered the way they record and report fly-tipping in the past few years.
However the statistics suggest the problem is on the rise and risks returning to levels not seen for a decade. The figures also no longer include an estimate of how much it costs councils to clear up fly-tipping, apart from the small number of incidents classed as the size of a tipper lorry load or larger, with cost £12.9m in 2018-19 – up from £12.2m the previous year.
As part of efforts to tackle the problem, local authorities carried out almost half a million enforcement actions, ranging from investigations to issuing fixed penalties and pursuing prosecutions.
The number of penalty notices has continued to rise, up 11% to 76,000 in 2018-19, including fines for fly-tipping and littering associated with fly-tipping.
