
# Your Morning Dump...Where Gordon Hayward doesn't want to hear any lip about his ankle anymore

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:37:29+00:00**

Author: **Charlie B**

Original: [The Sports Daily](https://thesportsdaily.com/2019/11/06/your-morning-dump-where-gordon-hayward-doesnt-want-to-hear-any-lip-about-his-ankle-anymore-r1a1/)


        Every morning, we compile the links of the day and dump them here… highlighting the big storyline. Because there’s nothing quite as satisfying as a good morning dump.
      
750. That is the number of days since Gordon Hayward brutally broke his ankle on primetime in his first game as a Boston Celtic. After a grueling year of recovery, a year of frustration, a failed season, and a full off-season, we can finally say it: Gordon Hayward is back.
While Gordon would rather we don’t ask about it anymore, we’re still going to talk about it. Tuesday night in Cleveland, on the same floor he injured himself on that ominous day, he tied a career high scoring 39 points on a smoldering 17-20 from the field with 8 rebounds and 7 dimes. He was in complete control as play after play he continually forced the issue, while also changing speeds, and fearlessly darting into the paint. He looks as confident as we’ve ever seen him and it’s something that is becoming commonplace this season for him.
He did all of this last night while only hitting 1-4 threes and only 4 free throws. All of his offense was from him driving the lane and either finishing at the bucket, or pulling up from mid-range. He’s finally showing us how great of an offensive player he is all the way around and it’s probably the biggest storyline from the season thus far.
It’s not even just about the scoring, but the whole package he brings to the table. With Al Horford departing in the offseason there was a void on the Celtics in regards to somebody who always makes the right play. Wether it’s a hard drive, a pass for a teammate, or maybe just a well timed cut/screen, Horford always made the right basketball play. Hayward has stepped into that role this season and when he’s on the court the offense has been humming. His defense was even on point last night as he really got after it and held his matchups to 4 points on 1-3 shooting from the floor (via NBA.com player tracking).
So there you have it…it really does take time to get back to full strength when your ankle literally snaps in half. Who knew?
All jokes aside, after a hapless last couple of years, the Celtics finally have the player they signed way back on July 4, 2017. His work isn’t done though, it has only just begun as the Celtics continue on their quest for Banner 18.
