
# Akshay Kumar's 'Housefull 4' breaks 'War' and 'Uri' box office records to rank among highest second Friday collections of all time

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:52:10+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/akshay-kumars-housefull-4-breaks-war-and-uri-box-office-records-to-rank-among-highest-second-friday-collections-of-all-time/articleshow/71865495.cms)

At a time when Bollywood superstar Akshay Kumar had to go on record to deny that the box office numbers of his latest release ‘Housefull 4’ have been exaggerated, it has been reported that his film has ranked among the highest second Friday collections of all time. On its way to adding a new page to box office history, the film has even managed to beat out heavyweight ‘War’ by surpassing its second Friday collections.
According to a report on BoxofficeIndia.com, the film recorded the 14th highest second Friday collections of all time. The film beat out the likes of ‘Uri: The Surgical Strike’, ‘Krrish 3’, ‘Sultan’, Akshay’s own ‘Mission Mangal’, ‘Golmaal Again’ and ‘War’ that ranks 20th on the list.
‘Housefull 4 has reportedly had the best second Friday of the year after Shahid Kapoor starrer 'Kabir Singh'.
Directed by Farhad Samji, 'Housefull 4' boasts of an ensemble star cast that includes, Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon, Riteish Deshmukh, Kriti Kharbanda, Bobby Deol, Pooja Hegde in the lead roles. The film is the fourth instalment of the hit comedy franchise.
The film hits the screens on October 25 and clashed at the box-office with Rajkummar Rao's 'Made In China' and Taapsee Pannu-Bhumi Pednekar's 'Saand Ki Aankh'.
Meanwhile, addressing the controversies, Akshay, in a group interview said, "Do I look upset? I am from that era where I have heard a lot of people say a lot of things. But I have never said anything. In my school, I was taught, 'Mind your own business'."
When prodded further, the superstar said, "It doesn't make a difference. What will I do? You can talk to theatre owners. You will keep asking me this same question four times to get an answer. The answer is I am not writing all this.
"These people are writing it. I am not running anything. My point of view is very simple, whatever comes in front of the media as you react to it, I react to it. So, there is nothing new about it."
