
# JCB India, CSIR-CRRI jointly develop pothole repair machine to improve road infrastructure and safety

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:16:19+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/jcb-india-and-csir-crri-jointly-develop-a-pothole-repair-machine-to-improve-road-infrastructure-and-safety/)

JCB India showcased a new pothole repair machine at the CRRI (Central Road Research Institute) in New Delhi in the presence of officials from DDA, MCD, NDMC, SDMC, EDMC, NRIDA and NHAI. The pothole repair machine is based on JCB's popular model 3DX Backhoe Loader. The repair machine has attachments and controls, integrated within to carry out pothole repairs via the controls of the 3DX Backhoe Loader. CRRI has provided its emulsion-based filling mix to fill potholes which is an integrated offering by JCB with the attachment for Backhoe Loader.
The attachment does not need to change or modify the standard hydraulics, engine power. The electrical circuits for the air compressor and compactor attachment continue to be fully integrated. The attachment will feature JCB's telemetry system called the LiveLink which can help contractors monitor the progress of the repair work. The telemetry enables real-time updates of machine movements, operation and location.
Subir Kumar Chowdhury, MD and CEO of JCB India, said, "Ever since we started our operations in India four decades ago, JCB machines have contributed immensely towards the creation of Roads and Highways across the country. There is a need to develop a modern, productive and viable solution for the repair of roads that have been built over time. This new product developed by us with the support of the CRRI is based on our popular 3DX Backhoe Loader. We feel that it will have significant utility in improving infrastructure in India. It will also help in improving safety through the reduction of accidents caused due to potholes."
