
# Burning Chile riot officer screams in agony as protesters hurl Molotov cocktails

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:05:26+00:00**

Author: **Amber Hicks, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/burning-chile-riot-officer-screams-20828186)

A riot police officer screams in agony as flames engulf her body after Molotov cocktails are hurled during protests in Chile.
Clashes between police and demonstrators have broken out in Santiago following weeks of unrest over the government’s economic policies, including low salaries and poor healthcare.
The violence has seen vandalism, arson attacks and looting in one of Latin America’s richest nations, where there is also anger at the yawning gap between rich and poor.
Police have responded by using tear gas canisters, rubber bullets and water cannons against the protesters.
Two police officers were engulfed in flames and helped by colleagues who used fire extinguishers and their hands.
 
The two women, María José Hernández Torres, 25, and Abigail Catalina Aburto Cardenas, 20, both members of the Santiago police special forces, are in serious condition in hospital, police said.
Chile’s Interior Minister Gonzalo Blumel visited the pair in hospital on Monday evening and denounced the attack as “pure violence... nothing to do with the legitimate demands of citizens.”
He said: “It was a violent, cowardly aggression against two police officers who were working to protect the safety of our compatriots.”
 
The two women are among 800 police officers injured in the demonstrations over the last two weeks, along with 1,650 protesters who have been hospitalised, according to human rights groups.
Meanwhile, a Chilean prosecutor said today he would seek court approval to investigate 14 police officers for allegedly torturing protesters during the three weeks of intense unrest and rioting in the country.
Manual Guerra, the prosecutor for Santiago East, said the investigation was related to two separate cases during a nine-day state of emergency in the capital Santiago from October 18.
 
One related to the actions of 12 police officers in Nunoa, a bohemian suburb of Santiago, where protestors defied a curfew to conduct successive nights of large but mainly peaceful demonstrations in a central square, a spokesman for Guerra told Reuters without providing further details.
The second related to two officers in the lower-middle class area of La Florida who were accused of beating a young man who was handcuffed, the spokesman said.
The alleged abuses took place against a backdrop of 20 days of mass rioting, looting and, more recently, peaceful protests over endemic inequality in one of Latin America's richest nations.
Today, a lorry blockade of some major highways over high road tolls caused commuter chaos.
President Sebastian Pinera on Wednesday sent a law to parliament to guarantee a minimum wage of $480 a month, part of an ambitious social spending plan announced last month as the protests grew.
"We are responding with action and not just good intentions to those things that people have demanded with so much force," he said in a televised speech.
