
# Endgame Writers Say Captain America’s Return Would Hurt the MCU

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:35:58+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/471273-endgame-writers-say-captain-americas-return-would-hurt-the-mcu)

All the beautiful things must come to an end, even Chris Evans’ run as Captain America in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Although Avengers: Endgame delivered a satisfying end to Steve Roger’s story, many fans are still hoping to see him wield his shield once again. Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely are not on the same page as those fans, though. Speaking with Screen Rant, the Endgame screenwriters said that a hypothetical future return of Evans would hurt the whole MCU.
“I do worry that if they do stuff like that, it’ll ding Endgame in the rearview mirror,” Stephen McFeely said. “This is such an important and such an interesting moment in movies, because a very successful studio just put their tools down.”
Endgame saw also Robert Downey Jr.’s Iron Man completing his mission and peacefully leaving the MCU. The plan is to leave things the way they are now for him too.
“I also don’t want it,” Markus said. “I love writing for Cap, I love Evans. But I really feel, much like Tony, we got them to a place where they don’t need to do it anymore. I’d hate to gin up something hokey to get them back.”
Steve Rogers’ foray in the MCU ended up after he passed the torch — and his shield — to Sam Wilson, who will likely become the new Captain America in the upcoming Marvel’s The Falcon and The Winter Soldier series. Maybe the Endgame screenwriters are right and it’s better to let him enjoy his long-coveted old age together with his beloved Peggy Carter.
Would you like to see Chris Evans in the MCU once again? Or would you leave things the way they are now? Let us know in the comments section below.
