
# May We Never Forget the Deliriously Bleak Terminator 3

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:29:08+00:00**

Author: **Bilge Ebiri**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/2019/11/may-we-never-forget-the-deliriously-bleak-terminator-3.html)

The latest Terminator movie (Dark Fate) purports to be a sequel only to the first two Terminator films; as far as it’s concerned, the movies that followed 1991’s Terminator 2: Judgment Day never happened. Which seems like a just fate for the mostly dreadful fourth and fifth entries in the series, Terminator: Salvation (2009) and Terminator: Genisys (2015). But spare a thought for Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines, perhaps the bleakest franchise sequel of all time.
Jonathan Mostow’s entry arrived in theaters in the summer of 2003 not just as the most expensive film ever made (at the time), but also carrying the stigma of being a James Cameron–less sequel to a James Cameron movie (thanks to a hilariously byzantine, decade-long string of negotiations, buyouts, bankruptcies, deals and counter-deals that left the writer-director-creator sidelined). There was a slightly stale whiff to T3, thanks also to the fact that star Arnold Schwarzenegger had recently become more interested in politics than movies; later that year, he’d be elected governor of California.
Against all odds, however, director Mostow delivered something unique: a massive downer of a blockbuster that carried the premise of the series to its logical extreme and captured something profoundly disturbing in the process. The film picks up the story of John Connor (now played by Nick Stahl) about ten years after the events of T2. The long-promised “Judgment Day,” when the worldwide computer network Skynet would become sentient and launch the planet’s nuclear weapons, never happened, which means of course that John has not become the heroic leader of the human resistance in a dystopian hellscape. Instead, he lives as an impoverished drifter off the grid, working construction jobs. He’s a literal nobody — partly by design, but also because his heroic moment never arrived.
For much of its running time, T3 is a fairly pro forma sequel, albeit a rather desolate one. Late one night an injured John winds up at an animal hospital, where he’s discovered by Kate Brewster (Claire Danes), who turns out to have gone to school with him. Meanwhile, not unlike T2, two killer robots arrive from the future — one a sleek, state-of-the-art, super-evil T-X (played by the impressively stone-faced Kristanna Loken), the other an old-school musclebound T-101 (Schwarzenegger), sent once again to protect John. As is traditional, the two robots arrive in the present naked, then commandeer clothing from the first people they see. The T-X kills and robs a fashionista with a fancy sports car, while the T-101 walks into ladies’ night at a local bar and commandeers a male stripper’s leather duds.
