
# 28 of the Best Travel Accessories You Don’t Want to Leave the House Without

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:43:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/lifestyle/g29725468/best-travel-accessories/)

Okay, so you’ve booked your long-overdue girls’ trip, but it includes a 10-hour flight or an extensive road trip. Boo! While it would be nice to simply snap your fingers and be in Hawaii, scientists haven’t quite figured that one out yet. So until they crack the space-time continuum, you’re stuck in a cramped, freezing plane next to that one person who puts their bare feet on the seat in front of them (you know the one). The process of getting to your destination might not be fun, but with all the right travel accessories, the trip will be way less stressful. Be prepared with these 28 essentials, from compression socks to dry shampoo, and the next time you travel anywhere, it’ll be a breeze.
2XU amazon.com $29.00 SHOP NOW
These babies are a must on long flights because they are just tight enough to keep the blood pumping in your legs when you’re sitting down for hours on end.
AMMAX amazon.com $29.99 $8.99 (70% off) SHOP NOW
Your full-size toiletries won’t make it past security, so fill these little guys with your fave hair products, moisturizer, and whatever else you want to bring. They’re small enough to have on board and they’re color coded so you won’t mix up your shampoo and conditioner.
Kikkerland amazon.com $8.98 SHOP NOW
Keep your phone fully powered (and make sure your hair doesn’t look like a nest after sleeping on the plane) with this mirrored charging bank.
Picun amazon.com $32.99 SHOP NOW
Drown out the hum of the airplane engine (or your siblings fighting in the back seat) with a pair of over-the-ear wireless headphones. These have more than 1,800 reviews with 4.4 stars.
BOSA amazon.com $36.99 $29.99 (19% off) SHOP NOW
Planes can be cold like the Arctic, and not all airlines provide a blanket, so bring your own travel-size one that folds up into a bag that’s easy to stow in a carry-on.
Mark & Graham markandgraham.com $49.00 SHOP NOW
Don’t be the person who spends 10 minutes untangling all your wires. A travel case that separates all your cords and conveniently rolls up is one you’ll take everywhere.
OSTRICH PILLOW amazon.com $59.99 SHOP NOW
This neck pillow has one side that’s higher than the other so your head will be supported when taking a nap. It’s also made of memory foam so it’s the next best thing to your pillow at home.
Anntrue amazon.com $16.99 SHOP NOW
Saving space anywhere you can is key to packing for a big trip, and a water bottle that folds down into a smaller size is genius.
Doboli amazon.com $7.99 SHOP NOW
Make sure you don’t lose your AirPods with this colored case that has a handy clip to make it more secure when traveling.
Tile Inc amazon.com $62.00 SHOP NOW
Losing your bags is the WORST, but having a pack of these Tiles will help track down anything you think you misplaced.
Calpak calpaktravel.com $75.00 SHOP NOW
Store all your cards and passport in this chic travel wallet that doubles as a stylish crossbody bag you can use on your trip.
Patchology saksfifthavenue.com $20.00 SHOP NOW
The air on planes can be severely dehydrating to your skin, so while it might seem extra, a skincare kit that includes a five-minute mask, eye and lip gels, and an illuminating mask will bring your face back to life.
awaytravel.com $245.00 SHOP NOW
Away’s hard-case luggage is actually the best for travel because it is not bulky yet fits a ton. Plus, it even comes with an ejectable external charger under the handle.
awaytravel.com $45.00 SHOP NOW
And these will help ya fit even more without having to sit on your luggage to close it.
HAOZI amazon.com $14.99 SHOP NOW
If you’re traveling internationally, you’ll want one of these handy adapters for the various types of outlets. It also has USB ports for any other charging you may need.
Drunk Elephant amazon.com $90.00 SHOP NOW
Your skin shouldn’t have to suffer from jet lag. This Drunk Elephant set has all the essentials (cleanser, creams, serums, and more) for glowy, refreshed skin that doesn’t look tired AF.
Dagne Dover dagnedover.com $155.00 SHOP NOW
Have to work while traveling? A laptop duffel made out of this cushiony fabric will protect your belongings and keep everything organized in its own compartment.
Paravel shopbop.com $65.00 SHOP NOW
Keep all your toiletries together in a square case that has a see-through panel so you can easily find what you brought.
HOKA outdoorvoices.com $140.00 SHOP NOW
Whether you’re at the airport or you know you’re gonna be walking around a bunch, you’ll want a pair of sneaks that are stylish enough to wear every day but are also nice to your feet.
BIS nordstrom.com $34.00 SHOP NOW
Look like the jet-setter you are with a faux-leather passport holder and matching luggage tag. This one comes in three other shades too.
WOLF nordstrom.com $59.00 SHOP NOW
You’ll feel better knowing your jewelry is secure in a zip-up case. This round one is the perfect size for your rings, earrings, and necklaces when you’re on the go.
GoPro amazon.com $250.00 $169.99 (32% off) SHOP NOW
If you like doing a bunch of activities like hiking, surfing, biking, or, yes, even paragliding, you’ll want a small camera you can easily fit in your pocket to take epic action shots.
MZ WALLACE nordstrom.com $225.00 SHOP NOW
A reliable bag is one that you know can fit all your sh*t, and this MZ Wallace is a favorite for that very reason. The quilted fabric is soft when you’re carrying it at your side, and it has a bunch of storage pockets for any loose items.
Warby Parker warbyparker.com $145.00 SHOP NOW
When you’re tossing things willy-nilly into your bag, you can rest assured that these babies won’t scratch. Plus, they’ll block all those harmful UVA and UVB rays.
CROISSANT amazon.com $12.99 $7.99 (38% off) SHOP NOW
Losing sunglasses is also a common tragedy while vacationing, so don’t let it happen with this fashionable gold chain. Attach it to your sunglasses to wear them like a necklace and keep ’em safe. Also, this style is SO in, JSYK.
amika amazon.com $10.00 SHOP NOW
Traveling sometimes means you don’t have time to wash your hair. I get it! Refresh your roots and strands with this mini dry shampoo that can fit in even the tiniest of purses.
Quip getquip.com $40.00 SHOP NOW
A Quip electric toothbrush comes with a travel cover so your bristles are kept sanitary. Complete your toiletries with a matching floss (it’s refillable!) and some toothpaste.
SOL DE JANEIRO amazon.com $18.00 SHOP NOW
Trust me when I say your lips are gonna be in a sad state, especially if your surroundings are dry. Moisturize them with this top-rated “lip butter” so chapped lips don’t ruin your vacay.
Lauren Adhav Assistant Fashion Editor I'm Cosmopolitan's Assistant Fashion Editor and write about any and all trends, major celeb fashion moments, and why wide leg jeans are basically the best.
