
# Govt adds more PPPs to flagship projects list

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:47+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/07/govt-adds-more-ppps-to-flagship-projects-list/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
The Duterte administration is now open to public-private partnership ventures as its updated list of flagship projects include more PPPs, which were all greenlighted by the government on Wednesday.
The list of 100 infrastructure flagship projects (IFPs) was jointly approved by the Investment Coordination Committee-Cabinet Committee (ICC-CC) and the Committee on Infrastructure (Infracom) Cabinet Level.
The flagship projects are now expected to cost P4.2 trillion. Of the 100 projects, around 26 will be implemented through PPP, nearly triple the nine in the original list.
“PPP projects under the Duterte administration should promote public interest. In other words, PPP must be for the people,” Presidential Adviser for Flagship Programs and Projects Secretary Vince Dizon said. “Unfortunately, PPP concession agreements executed in the past failed to promote public interest.”
Dizon said the government will not be tied to provisions such as automatic rate increases and commitments of noninterference.
He added that there will be no noncompete clauses in PPP contracts, which will strip the government of its ability to require concessionaires to improve services.
These concessionaires, Dizon said, have been detrimental to public interest. Under the Duterte administration, such disadvantageous provisions will not be allowed.
“The swift implementation of these flagship projects is paramount to us and this sentiment is shared by the Filipino people; and the government, with the help of the private sector and our partner international agencies, will deliver,” said Dizon.
However, Socioeconomic Planning Secretary Ernesto M. Pernia said the list of 100 flagship projects is still being finalized and is not yet available to the public as of press time. 
“[The list is] not yet final. [We need to make] a few more refinements,” said Pernia.
Nonetheless, Dizon said the 100 flagship projects cover five categories, with Transport and Mobility as the top priority. The other four are Power, Water, Information and Communications Technology, and Urban Development and Renewal.
Included in the list are the Metro Manila Subway Project, North South Commuter Railway, Clark International Airport Expansion Project, Cebu Monorail System, Panay-Guimaras Negros Bridge, Samal Island-Davao City Connector Bridge, and the Mindanao Rail Project.
The list, however, is an “evolving list” as new projects of national and regional importance will be included later on, especially in Visayas and Mindanao.
“Continuity is what is most important for President Duterte. This is why all of the 100 flagship projects will be started under his term, with a significant number completed while some will be partially operational by 2022. The rest will have significant progress moving into the next administration,” said Dizon. 
“The Build, Build, Build program was never just about the Duterte administration. It’s about building for the future to propel the Philippines to a developed-country status by 2040 and make the lives of Filipinos more comfortable,” he added.
The interagency ICC-Cabcom has also approved four road and transportation-related projects on Wednesday.
Pernia told reporters via SMS that the ICC-Cabcom approved the Samal Island-Davao City Connection and the Camarines Sur Highway Project.
He also said the interagency committee approved the Davao Public Transport Modernization Project—a Bus Rapid Transit project—and the unsolicited proposal for the New Bohol International Airport.
