
# Redmi Note 8T announced with NFC, 18W charger and Snapdragon 665

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:38:57+00:00**

Author: **Marco Lancaster**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/06/redmi-note-8t-announced-with-nfc-18w-charger-and-snapdragon-665/)

Redmi Note 8T announced with NFC, 18W charger and Snapdragon 6653.5 (70%) 4 votes
Xiaomi is quite busy these days with the unveiling of the Mi Note 10 featuring a whopping 108MP camera and waterfall display. However, the company still found time to unveil the rumored Redmi Note 8T. Before you go all crazy with the idea of a new Redmi Note member for the “8” family, we have to put your expectations down a little bit. It’s essentially the same Redmi Note 8 that we already know. This time around, Xiaomi includes NFC functionality and there’s a new 18W charger coming out the box.
If you remember, the Redmi Note 8 lacked NFC connectivity and came with a 10W charger. The Redmi Note 8 Pro variant, in counterpart, included NFC and came with an 18W charger. Now, Xiaomi is releasing the Redmi Note 8T variant in the European market to meet the demand for the above-requested features.
Since it’s the same device, you should also expect the same specifications. The Redmi Note 8 boasts a 6.3-inch FHD+ display with a waterdrop notch housing the 13MP selfie camera. Moving around to the back, we can see the quad-cam rear setup comprising of a 48MP + 8MP ultra-wide + 2MP Macro + 2MP depth sensors.
Under the hood, we have the very same Snapdragon 665 that is present in the standard Note 8 model. The horsepower comes paired with either 3GB or 4GB of RAM with 64GB or 128GB of internal storage. The memory can be expanded via a MicroSD slot and you don’t need to sacrifice dual-SIM functionality since it comes with a triple-slot. The handset draws power from a 4,000mAh battery that now will charge with the aforementioned 18W charger. On the software side, the smartphone ships with Android 9 Pie-based MIUI 10, however an update for MIUI 11 is coming soon.
The Redmi Note 8T will be initially available in Blue, White and Black colors for €199 (~$220,93). For that amount, you get the 4/64GB memory variant. The sales will begin on November 8 in Spain and Italy. France will get the device by November 13 while German customers can purchase it from November 15.
Xiaomi will spread availability across European markets and in the future. The company will also add a 3GB/32GB option for €179 (~$198,73) and a more premium 4/128GB one for €249 (~$276,45) to its portfolio.

        Via
      
