
# Windows 10 1903 Affected by New Setup Bug, Workaround Ready

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:33:51+00:00**

Author: **Sergiu Gatlan**

Original: [BleepingComputer](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/windows-10-1903-affected-by-new-setup-bug-workaround-ready/)

Microsoft says that Windows 10, version 1903 is affected by a new bug triggering an error asking users to "Try again" after completing the Windows installation process or after resetting a device.
"After successfully completing the Out-of-box Experience (OOBE) to setup a new Windows device or after resetting a device, once you reach the Desktop you might see a screen with black bars at the top and bottom with blue in the middle and receive the error, 'Something went wrong but you can try again. MSA' with a Try again button," says Microsoft in a newly published support document.
The issue affects devices that connect to the Internet for the first time or the ones on which new Windows installs haven't previously connected during OOBE.
OOBE represents the Windows installation process and it consists of a series of screens asking the user to the OS license agreement, to connect to the internet, as well as log in with or sign up for a Microsoft Account, among others.
"During OOBE, you have the option to connect to the internet but are not required to do so," adds Microsoft.
"You might receive this error the first time you connect to the internet on a new device or new install of Windows that has not previously connected to the internet during the Out-of-box Experience (OOBE)."
The company is working on a resolution for this new issue and it plans to provide an update in a future Windows 10, version 1903 release.
Microsoft provides detailed procedures that can be followed to prevent the "Something went wrong but you can try again. MSA" error from appearing during the Windows installation,
Users who have work open that they don't want to lose have to follow these steps:
1. Select Ctrl+Shift+F10 on the keyboard once.2. Select Ctrl+Shift+Esc on the keyboard to open Task Manager. If you do not see Task Manager open, repeat step 1.3. If you do not see the Details tab, select More Details in the lower left.4. Select the Details tab.5. Find the wwahost.exe process. Right-click or long-press on that process and select End task from the context menu.
For all other cases, restarting the Windows device should be enough:
1. Select Ctrl+Alt+Delete on the keyboard.2. In the lower right corner of the screen, select the Power button.3. Select Restart.
This week Microsoft also issued a workaround designed to mitigate an issue preventing Windows 10 customers from creating local users while setting up a new Windows device using Input Method Editor (IME) for Chinese, Japanese, or Korean languages.
Microsoft acknowledged another new known issue impacting several Windows versions and leading to slow startups on devices configured to use persistent memory. 
This bug impacts both client and server Windows versions but does not affect home users since they don't use the persistent memory feature available on servers and workstations.
