
# Gemini Exchange Adds Automated Customer Tax Reporting

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:00:18+00:00**

Author: **Anatol Antonovici**

Original: [Bitcoinist.com](https://bitcoinist.com/gemini-exchange-adds-automated-customer-tax-reporting/)


        US-based crypto exchange Gemini wants to help its users comply with the tax requirements in a convenient manner. The company hired Sovos to modernize its tax information reporting.
      
The exchange platform managed by Taylor and Cameron Winklevoss will use Sovos’ technology to automate its 1099 forms and filings. The solution is expected to reduce potential human errors and ensure automatic regulatory updates. The latter is quite important in an industry that is still at its nascent stage.
Gemini picked Sovos for its expertise in tax reporting. The company is currently the largest private filer to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of 10-series forms. Besides this, Sovos has experience in handling tax issue in alternative currency markets.
Joshua Rawlins, managing director at Gemini’s financial operations, commented:
The executive continued,
The IRS is quite strict when it comes to taxes, and it couldn’t ignore the rapidly growing cryptocurrency market.
The IRS treats cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum as property. This suggests that the same tax rules applied to property transactions are valid for the trade of cryptocurrencies. Thus, crypto transactions are subject to capital gains tax and Gemini traders must take this into account.
Last month, the IRS issued two updated pieces of guidance for taxpayers who trade cryptocurrencies, which the tax agency calls virtual currencies. The new guidance includes Revenue Ruling 2019-24 and FAQs.
IRS Commissioner Chuck Rettig explained:

        Do you think crypto traders who use Gemini, Coinbase, and other US platforms should be taxed? Share your thoughts in the comments section!
      

        Image via Shutterstock
      
The Rundown
