
# AEW Dynamite Results: News And Notes After Cody’s Major Career Announcement

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alfred Konuwa**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/alfredkonuwa/2019/11/06/aew-dynamite-results-news-and-notes-after-codys-major-career-announcement/)

AEW Dynamite featured a final pitch for AEW Full Gear on a show where Cody vowed he would never challenge for an AEW World Championship again if he were unsuccessful in Saturday’s main event against Chris Jericho. The night built to a wild brawl featuring The Young Bucks, Kenny Omega, Jon Moxley, Cody and The Inner Circle.
AEW Dynamite continued its weekly slide with a series-low viewership of 789,000, a number severely affected by Game 7 of the MLB World Series. With postseason baseball out of the picture, AEW’s viewership is fully expected to shoot back up to its watermark of around one million.

        AEW Dynamite Key Competition:
      
AEW Dynamite YouTube Viewership: 1,216,320 views (Down from 1,580,017 views)
Average Ticket Price at the Bojangles Coliseum: $79

        AEW Dynamite Results: Wednesday, November 6, 2019
      

        PAC def. Trent
      
PAC’s win-loss record must have automatically updated the win column after seeing this matchup on paper.
Despite his tag team ceiling, Trent (Baretta) has always been an above-average singles performer.

        Cody makes a Career Announcement
      
Cody’s career announcement is going to draw a whole lot of accusations for blatantly stealing from NWA Powerrr’s Tim Storm storyline.
Cody said he’d never challenge for the AEW World Championship if he loses to Chris Jericho, but he didn’t say he wouldn’t accept a challenge from a future champion.
This promo was filled with bars that, if I didn’t know any better, could have been easily convinced it was a shoot. Excellent.

        Private Party def. The Dark Order
      
Private Party, rising babyfaces, are announced from “a place where you have to have a ticket” and their body weights are given in vodka measurements.
I don’t know what The Dark Order are going for, but whatever it is, it would work so much better in CHIKARA.
The Chris Jericho segment that aired after his was a hilarious, yet still somewhat serious, parody of Cody’d vignette from a few weeks ago.

        Emi Sakura and Jamie Hayter def. Shanna and Riho
      
Emi Sakura tried to get a “boom boom clap” chant going, and boy did this crowd hate her for it.
Jamie Hayter attacked Riho on the on the outside and boy did this crowd hate her for it.

        Shawn Spears def. Brandon Cutler
      
Shawn Spears’ entrance does a great job of convincing viewers at home that he is little more than a good hand in AEW. I hope I’m wrong.
If Brandon Cutler loses enough, there will one day be a lot of intrigue in an underdog win-streak storyline. But we’re probably years away from that.

        Sammy Guevara and Chris Jericho vs. Kenny Omega and Hangman Adam Page
      
Is there a bigger star with more generic theme music than Kenny Omega in AEW?
After Sammy Guevara used a selfie cam, AEW accomplished the impressive feat of stealing from NWA and NXT in one evening.
There was a “we are a–holes” chant coming out of commercial, which leads me to believe Chris Jericho must have cut a heel promo calling them a–holes and it backfired.
How hasn’t Prowrestlingtees.com made several more “Cowboy [expletive]” merch in addition to the original? Are they still trying to get the clearances to use the poo emoji?
The fact that Jake Hager refused to speak in the earlier vignette made him so much more terrifying as Jericho’s heavy.
