
# In its fifth year, Femme Wave expands in size and scope

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:16+00:00**

Author: **Eric Volmers**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/entertainment/in-its-fifth-year-femme-wave-expands-in-size-and-scope)

On Saturday afternoon, people will be invited to gather at the McHugh House to participate in a radical act as part of the fifth annual Femme Wave, Calgary’s feminist arts festival.
It’s called a nap-in. Led by Calgary artist and researcher Barbara Bickel, participants will be invited to nap, dream and then create textile art based on said dreams. Because slowing down and resting, the festival’s website proclaims, is a “radical act” in this day and age.
“By Saturday afternoon, I can tell you that everybody is ready for a nap,” says Stephanie Perrin, resource director for Femme Wave, with a laugh. “It’s an example of some of the new programming that we’re giving a try.”
It shows how the festival, which runs Nov. 7-10 in various venues, is expanding in both size and scope in its fifth year. It’s also the sort of activity that should put to rest any lingering misconceptions that Femme Wave is the sole domain of angry, politically minded performers. Granted, the values listed on its website still include “ultimately being badass feminist bitches.” But it’s still a festival and the idea is, ultimately, to have fun.
“Which is something that we really try to share,” Perrin says. “Safer spaces are just about creating somewhere people feel like they can express themselves, be who they are and not be judged for that and be celebrated instead.”
“When people go to Femme Wave, they know what we do is really fun,” she adds. “The heart of what we do is really political, but we know how to do it and have a good time at the same time.”
Since 2015, Femme Wave has put the spotlight on women and non-binary artists. All artist applications must include at least one member who identifies as a woman or non-binary person. Founded by Calgary musicians Kaely Cormack and Hayley Muir, who perform in the punk band the Shiverettes, Femme Wave was a response to what they saw as a narrow focus among many festival programmers, who tended to fill lineups and headlining spots primarily with white and male performers.
But its guidelines certainly haven’t limited the range of artists that participate in Calgary’s only feminist arts festival. Over the next four days, various venues will host musicians, visual artists, animators and comedians. This year, Femme Wave’s new “Wild Card” programming includes the aforementioned nap-in, plant and clothing swaps and a drag performance by Duke Carson.
Films range from Calgary director Kaytlyn Turner’s comic short, Lonely People Exercising to Sad Music, which chronicles the filmmaker’s “failed attempt at getting into aqua-fit;” to Winnipeg director Rowan Gray’s Alternating Current, about a woman facing a life of poverty after suddenly losing her pension.
Musical acts range from veteran Vancouver garage-punk duo Pack A.D. and 2019 Polaris Prize-winning hip-hop artist Haviah Mighty. Calgary’s all-girl teen alt-rockers Hunter and the Kill and politically driven, dream pop band Vanity Pop are on the bill, as is Calgary’s Jessica McMann Trio, which is led by a classically-trained Cree flautist.
“We get a good mix,” says Perrin. “I think some artists are more explicitly political. But I think with Femme Wave, just by nature of being a feminist arts festival, everything we do is political. Because, unfortunately, women’s rights or the rights of non-binary, trans and LGBTQ people are still up for debate and are seen as political, which is something that we take issue with. So our festival is about celebrating and supporting those artists. This year, we’re prouder than ever to be doing that. It continues to be a relevant issue, particularly with our political climate.”

         Femme Wave runs from Nov. 7-10 in various venues. Visit femmewave.com.
      
