
# NRC ‘base document’ for future: CGI Gogoi

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **PTI**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/news/india/nrc-base-document-for-future-cgi-gogoi/articleshow/71883306.cms)

Says Assam’s development hit by ‘arm chair commentators’, defends NRC driveNEW DELHI Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi on Sunday strongly defended the current exercise of National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam, saying prior to it there was “guesswork” on the number of illegal immigrants in the state that “had fuelled panic, fear and vicious cycle of lawlessness and violence” and it would be a base document for future. Justice Gogoi, who is heading an apex court bench which is monitoring the process of NRC in Assam, was also critical of “arm chair commentators” who, he said, are not only far away from the ground reality but also present a highly distorted picture due to which Assam and its development agenda have taken a hit. The CJI, who hails from Assam, said that NRC is neither a “new or a novel idea” as it found expression as early as in 1951 and the current exercise is an attempt to update the 1951NRC. “The NRC is not without contestations. Let me take this occasion to clarify. The NRC is not a new nor a novel idea. It found expression as early as in the year 1951and in particular context of Assam in year 1985 when the Assam accord was signed. In fact, the current NRC is an attempt to update the 1951NRC,” said Justice Gogoi, who was addressing a gathering here during inauguration of book ‘Post Colonial Assam (1947-2019)’ authored by veteran journalist Mrinal Talukdar. A total of 3,30,27,661 people had applied to be included in the NRC. Of them, 3,11,21,004 have been included in the document and 19,06,657 excluded. The names of 1.9 crore people were published as part draft NRC on the midnight of December 31, 2017. Criticism of judges bothers me: Bobde#NEW DELHI Taking a grim view of unrestrained criticism of judges on social media for some of their judicial actions, Chief Justice of India designate Justice Sharad Arvind Bobde says it bothers him when he sees judges feeling “harassed” and finds the attack difficult to ignore. Justice Bobde, who will assume charge as the 47th Chief Justice of India on November 18, also said the unrestricted criticism was not only scandalising but also tearing apart judges’ reputation. Criticism of judges instead of their judgments on social media is actually an offence of ‘defamation’, Bobde, 63, said during a wide-ranging interview with the news agency. PTI
