
# Mi Note 10 could be a Mi 9T with more battery and camera

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:23:42+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/03/xiaomi-mi-note-10-could-be-a-mi-9t-with-more-battery-and-camera/)

Mi Note 10 could be a Mi 9T with more battery and camera3.4 (68%) 10 votes Chinese manufacturer, Xiaomi, is getting set to release its latest flagship, Mi Note 10. The company is quite voracious with its quest to release new smartphones. In addition to the fact that its smartphone nomenclature is becoming increasingly complex, the company also has many (maybe too many) devices within the same price range. This means that in a few cases, it is competing with itself. We have seen Xiaomi recycle older smartphones with a tweak or two as well as a new name. It appears that this will be the case in the upcoming model.
From the details of the Note 10 so far, we are struggling to see the “real” difference between this device and the Xiaomi Mi 9T. The Mi Note 10 uses the Snapdragon 730G which is a step above the SD730 on the Mi 9T. The comprehensive display, camera, and huge battery are other little changes on the Note 10. These two devices feel like siblings despite the fact that they are in different lineups. The Xiaomi Mi 9T general performance is fairly ok. Thus, apart from the 108MP camera on the Note 10, consumers may consider the Mi 9T as a bargain. Obviously, given the similarities between these hones, we expect the price of the Mi 9T to take a hit as the Note 10 hits the market.The Mi Note is likely to sport a 6.47-inches FHD+ curved OLED display with a fingerprint sensor underneath it. It will have up to 8GB RAM and 256GB of internal storage. There will also be a 3.5mm  headphone jack as well as a microSD card slot for storage expansion. And the best part (hopefully Xiaomi doesn’t make any changes for the global model), a whopping 5,260mAh battery will be fueling the device with support for 30W fast charging.Via
