
# Katie Price begs for third I'm A Celebrity appearance after Simon Cowell X Factor snub

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:01:22+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/katie-price-begs-third-im-20794821)

Katie Price has made it clear to I'm A Celebrity bosses that she wants a third chance on the show.
The former model, 41, voiced her hopes of returning to the reality series, which returns to TV screens soon, in a video clip posted to her YouTube channel on Friday night.
Putting her dreams out there, the confident star, whose latest episode on the vlogging site featured around her previous reality TV appearances - in particular the 2015 series Celebrity Big Brother - discussed how she would "100 percent" head into the jungle.
The sugically-enhanced beauty told the camera: "I was thinking the other day about reality shows what ones I would want to do and stuff like that.
"I did I’m a Celebrity twice and the second time I walked out because everyday everyone was asking me to do the challenges everyday and because I swore on my kids life thats why I left because I couldn’t go back on it.
"The silly thing is the last challenge they wanted me to do was easy, so really I should have stayed in but I didn’t."
She later added: "I would definitely do I’m A Celebrity again, 100 percent, third time lucky! Would they have me back in the jungle? Oh my God I could cause another stir!"
Katie also went on to admit she would love to present Love Island and also told she would be happy to be contestant.
She went on to also show her annoyance at not being on The X Factor : Celebrity line-up.
The brunette ranted: “Celebrity X Factor, why did they not have me? I so want to do that, I have put it out there so many times! And I am sorry I usually love Celebrity X Factor or X Factor but I have to say Megan McKenna has to win the show for sure and the singers I saw on the show the other week, Jesus Christ, I would have blown them away if I sang, trust me.
"So I don’t think they did a great choice there Megan McKenna is going to win but I don’t think the others are not too great to be fair.
"Anyway they should have had me on it shouldn’t they! They would have got more headlines as well! You know what I mean and I can sing a song!"
She then blurted out: "Maybe it is because Simon fancies me! Wahay! Simon - only joking - not! Yeah, I am joking! What is the matter with me today?"
Katie famously met her first husband Peter Andre - who she divorced in 2009- during her first stint in the jungle in 2004.
Katie returned to the jungle in 2009, five years after meeting husband Peter on the show to get "closure" on their dramatic break-up. But the fool-proof plan didn't exactly work and she quit after just nine days.
Explaining her decision to leave, she said: "It's not about the money, it's not about winning for me - I just don't want to be here any more.
During her exit chat, she then famously dumped husband number two Alex Reid live on air. But he gave her another chance and the pair got married. Unfortunately, she wasn't quite so understanding when she discovered his cross-dressing alter-ego Roxanne.
