
# Death of legendary RTÉ broadcaster Gay Byrne

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:08:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/04/4181893-death-of-legendary-rt-broadcaster-gay-byrne/)

The death has taken place RTÉ broadcaster Gay Byrne. He was aged 85.
The news has evoked a sense of huge loss across Mayo.
He presented the final of the Castlebar Song Contest in its early years.
In a statement, his family said: "It is with sadness that Kathleen, Crona and Suzy wish to announce that their beloved Gay has died peacefully at home today, surrounded by his family.
"We wish to thank everybody for their love and support during Gay's illness. Particularly the wonderful teams in the Mater Hospital, St. Francis Hospice and the Irish Cancer Society.”
He made the Late, Late Show on RTÉ an Irish institution, one of world's longest running chat shows which has been responsible for bringing about many changes in society after featuring discussions on issues such as divorce, abortion and LGBTQ issues.
Gay also presented a long running radio show on RTE Radio 1 which was very popular.
Other shows he presented included The Rose of Tralee.
After retiring from broadcasting, he was appointed chairman of the Road Safety Authority and presenting a number of TV shows, including The Meaning of Life.
Gay also presented a show on Lyric FM until he was diagnosed with cancer in 2017.
He is survived by his wife Kathleen, their daughters Crona and Suzy and their families, to whom sympathy is tendered.
