
# Virgin West Coast Trains staff set to strike - sparking rail chaos for 24 hours

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:23:13+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/virgin-west-coast-trains-staff-17184483)

Train managers on Virgin West Coast are to stage a 24-hour strike in a dispute over the dismissal of a colleague.
Members of the Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) union will walk out on November 19, following weeks of banning overtime.
RMT general secretary Mick Cash said: "I urge all Virgin West Coast members to continue their magnificent solidarity and support for our colleague who has been treated so disgracefully.
"We cannot allow this appalling situation to continue and our member must be reinstated.
 
"It is time for the company to stop their aggressive and bullying tactics and sit down with us and right this wrong which has angered staff across the West Coast franchise."
Virgin West Coast runs straight through Birmingham, with trains to and from Birmingham New Street.
 
Scottish-based company First Group and Italian firm Trenitalia, which is owned by the Italian government, have formed a new business which will take over services from December 8.
The franchise involves running inter-city services between Scotland, the North-West of England, North Wales, the Midlands and London, and was awarded by the Department for Transport. That includes services between Birmingham New Street and Euston.
It means the Virgin Trains brand will disappear after more than 20 years.
