
# Stunning Desktop Linux OS Deepin v20 Has A Release Date

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jason Evangelho**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonevangelho/2019/11/07/stunning-desktop-linux-distro-deepin-v20-has-a-release-date/)

Minutes ago I wrapped up an interview with Wuhan Deepin Technology CTO Raphael Zhang and Deepin Development Manager Hualet Wang, and their answers were full of surprises and welcome news. Before I publish the full interview, I wanted to reserve this space for a cool announcement: Deepin v20 is heading into beta status mid-December and is expected to officially launch January 2020.
Deepin is both a desktop Linux distribution and standalone desktop environment, but the former has been making serious waves lately. Beginning with its recent Huawei partnership, which sees the Chinese device manufacturer shipping various MateBook laptops in China with Deepin preinstalled.
The Deepin team has also been sharing a series of short but tantalizing Deepin v20 teasers via its YouTube channel. They’re slickly produced, and demonstrate a lot of polish being added to the distribution’s taskbar, launch and login functionality.
I’ve embedded all three at the bottom of this article (don’t let the language dissuade you; Deepin is also available in English).
Deepin excites me because it sets such a high bar not just with its visual aesthetic, but with its feature set as well. Tools like Deepin Cloud Sync (which, yes, will break out of mainland China but not before the company carefully studies various international privacy laws), a window-less slid-out control center and built-in bootloader customization put it a cut above.
It’s not everyone’s cup of tea, but Deepin is the first thing I show people who are unaware of the progress desktop Linux has made in the last several years – not to mention how beautiful it has become.
Deepin v20 is expected to be based on Debian 10, and the company plans to spend 2020 building its bonds with the international open source community among many other activities.
Stay tuned for information on that front, and a lot more in the upcoming interview.
