
# iOS 13.3 Public Beta 1 Is No Longer A Stone-Cold App Killer

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Anthony Karcz**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/anthonykarcz/2019/11/06/ios-133-public-beta-1-is-no-longer-a-stone-cold-app-killer/)

Welcome back, Betanauts! Did you download the iOS 13.2 final release last week? It was a bit of an oddity (we usually don’t get final releases), but necessary for everyone who purchased new AirPods Pro. But this week, Apple is back with a new beta cycle and iOS 13.3 Public Beta 1 couldn't have come soon enough.
We're starting with the fixes this week because iOS 13.3 has one important job - fix the horrendous multitasking issue that's been plaguing the final release of iOS 13.2. 
I don't know if beta testers just didn't notice the leak or if it was something introduced between iOS 13.2 Public Beta 4 and the final release, but iOS 13.2 is too aggressive in determining which apps are eating up memory, killing apps as soon as you leave them rather than leaving them open in the background.  
iOS 13.3 Public Beta 1 fixes that. As soon as my iPhone was updated, I loaded a story in Google News, switched to Google Mail, launched Marvel Puzzle Quest, then closed my phone. Under iOS 13.2, I would have unlocked my phone to find all three apps killed. With the latest beta, however, not only was MPQ still there, I could go all the way back to my story in Google News without having to worry about the app reloading and losing my place. 
Despite the main focus of this release being on fixing the multitasking issue, there are actually a couple of minor additions in iOS 13.3 Public Beta 1.
There's a new Communication Limits setting under Screen Time. Here, instead of just setting time limits, you can specify who can be contacted, based on your Contacts list. While that may be nigh near impossible if you have a tween (good luck trying to figure who heart emoji, heart emoji, sparkle emoji, unicorn emoji actually is and if you need to block them), it's an important tool to keep your kids safe.
The only other real change in iOS 13.3 is an updated icon for the Watch app. It now shows the current Apple Watch model with a silver digital crown (rather than the old-school black crown). It's the little things that keep iOS fresh. 
For the moment? Nothing. The official release notes are just as sparse as they were for all of iOS 13.2. This is nothing new, iOS 12 was incredibly tight-lipped unless there was a big marketing push around a release. It just means we have to be extra-vigilant and log those bugs we do find. We definitely don't want a bug like the one plaguing iOS 13.2 slipping past us again! 
It's no matter that there aren't a lot of new features in iOS 13.3, fixing the multitasking issue is the one thing that Apple needs to get right, lest it lose the faith of its customers. 
One of the statistics touted every time Tim Cook gets up on stage is the stellar iOS adoption rate. Minor annoyances are one thing. But something like this, that changes how people are able to use their phones, will make folks think twice (or deselect the automatic update switch). 
I expect this will be a quick beta cycle, possibly releasing just before Thanksgiving. It's extremely tight, but if Apple manages to limit the scope of this release to just the multitasking issue (and one or two other minor things), then it's possible. 
We'll see if that bears out next week. 
