
# Amazon's One-Day Anker Sale Brings Heavy Discounts On Headphones, Chargers & More

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:25:07+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-amazon-anker-soundcore-powercore-gold-box-sale-cheap.html)

Amazon's Gold Box Deal of the Day today includes a number of Anker products that are on sale by up to 48-percent. That makes this the perfect time to pick up a new pair of headphones, or a battery pack, or really any accessory that you've had your eye on for a while.
Remember that this is part of Amazon's Gold Box Deal of the Day, so that these prices aren't going to be around for long, and will expire at midnight tonight.
Included in this sale, you'll be able to save big on the Anker Soundcore Liberty Air truly wireless headphones, which are currently just $55.30. There's also the Anker Soundcore Liberty truly wireless headphones which are on sale for $69.30 and these feature 100-hour playtime, thanks to the included carrying case.
Advertisement
The popular Nebula Capsule II is also on sale today, coming in at just $405.99, down from $579. That is a really great price for a really great portable projector that is going to keep you entertained for hours.
There is also the Anker PowerWave 7.5 wireless charging stand that is on sale for just $20.99. This is good for charging at up to 7.5W, which is not quite the fast charging that Android phones use, but it does charge at 7.5W for phones like the Galaxy Note 10 and Pixel 4. The only thing is, that they can charge faster – up to 10W.
Anker has a five pack of its popular Powerline micro USB cables on sale today as well, coming in at just $11.19. That is a really great price for a five pack of USB cables, and definitely worth checking out.
Advertisement
These are just some of the many products that are on sale right now in the Anker Gold Box Deal over at Amazon. There are many more that are on sale too. And you can check them all out by clicking here.

        Anker Accessories Sale - Amazon
      
