
# Boris Johnson launches election campaign in Birmingham with promise to get Brexit done

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Walker, https://www.facebook.com/JonWalkerPolitics?pnref=story**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/boris-johnson-launches-election-campaign-17206880)

Boris Johnson is launching his general election campaign in Birmingham.
He will be joined by his Cabinet, as he kicks off the official battle for Number 10 with a dig at Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn over Brexit.
Mr Johnson will insist that only he can "get Brexit done", while Labour plans "dither and delay" by holding a second Brexit referendum.
And he will insist that once the UK is out of the EU, a Conservative government will get on with "delivering on the public’s priorities of our NHS, crime and the cost of living."
Parliament held its last pre-election debate on Tuesday night and voting takes place on December 12.
Mr Johnson will head to Buckingham Palace for an audience with the Queen before returning to Downing Street to announce the formal start of the General Election.
He will then hold his first election rally in the West Midlands - and insist that he never wanted to hold a poll at all.
Instead, he will argue that the only way to deliver Brexit is to elect a new Parliament with new MPs.
Mr Johnson will say: "I don’t want an election. No prime minister wants an early election, especially not in December.
"But as things stand we simply have no choice – because it is only by getting Brexit done in the next few weeks that we can focus on all the priorities of the British people.’"
He will claim Labour would hold two referendums if it wins power, one on Brexit and the other on Scottish independence.
 
Mr Johnson will say: "The alternative is clear - Jeremy Corbyn and his two favourite advisers, Dither and Delay, turning 2020 into the year of two miserable referendums, one on the EU, and another on Scotland."
Labour does plan to hold another Brexit referendum. It does not support a second referendum on Scottish independence, but says it would be wrong to refuse to hold one if the Scottish government and assembly call for one.
Tories are targeting West Midlands seats including Dudley North, Newcastle-under-Lyme, Warwick and Leamington and Wolverhampton South West. They also hope they could gain Birmingham Northfield from Labour.
 
However, the Tory campaign was overshadowed on Tuesday night by anger over comments made by Cabinet Minister Jacob Rees-Mogg, who said victims of the Grenfell fire should have used "common sense" and ignored fire service guidance not to leave the burning tower block.
Mr Rees-Mogg said on LBC on Monday: "I think if either of us were in a fire, whatever the fire brigade said, we would leave the burning building.
"It just seems the common sense thing to do, and it is such a tragedy that that didn't happen."
 
Later, Mr Rees-Mogg said: "I profoundly apologise."
Tory backbencher Andrew Bridgen the made things worse by telling a radio interviewer that Jacob Rees-Mogg "would have made a better decision than the authority figures" who advised residents to stay in their flats, and suggested this was because Mr Rees-Mogg was "very clever".
