
# McDonald's to build major new restaurant and drive-thru in Stirling

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:00:10+00:00**

Author: **Kaiya Marjoribanks, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/kaiya-marjoribanks/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/mcdonalds-build-major-new-restaurant-20808462)


        Fast food giants McDonald’s are to build a major new restaurant and drive-thru at Springkerse — close to St Modan’s High School and The PEAK.
      
It will be the takeaway giant’s third Stirling eaterie and is expected to create 65 mainly full- and part-time jobs.
Stirling Council planners have conditionally approved a planning application submitted by McDonald’s Restaurants Ltd and WM via Planware Ltd for a two-storey restaurant at the site next to and north of the Morrisons supermarket filling station.
It comes seven years after the council’s planning panel unanimously refused the company permission for a restaurant near the same spot, despite the application having been recommended for approval by planners. Some councillors had suggested they were trying to cash in on custom from pupils, and parents also voiced concerns.
This time, however, no such worries appear to have been expressed, leaving the decision to council planning officials.
The site of the new application is just a short distance from Burger King and Pizza Hut outlets.
McDonald’s already have a drive-thru in Drip Road, Raploch, and a take-away in Murray Place.
Parking for 24 spaces including two accessible spaces and an eight-space cycle shelter are planned for the new McDonald’s outlet. Entry to the drive thru will be accessed from the north west of the site.
Planners said the development was compatible with the existing land uses and not threaten Stirling city centre since it was expected to primarily support the retail park by encouraging customers to spend longer within the park and by attracting passing trade from the A91.
In documents submitted to the planners earlier this year, the applicants stressed that nutrition and healthier options had been a focus for the company in recent years.
They added: “The company has recently been undertaking a thorough review of its portfolio of restaurants and is seeking to increase its representation in certain key locations.
“Stirling is already served by two McDonald’s restaurants. It is considered that this restaurant will therefore serve existing users of the retail park and surrounding road network to the east of the town.
“It would be commercially unviable to locate another restaurant within Stirling city centre. The proposed location is far enough away and is considered sequentially preferable given its location within a commercial centre and the ancillary role it would play in complementing the existing uses of the wider retail park.”
The applicants also outlined their policy on litter, which includes at least three daily litter patrols, with staff picking up not only McDonald’s packaging but any other litter within 150 metres of the restaurant.

        
          Click here for more news and sport from the Stirling area.
        
      
