
# Virgin Media flash sale offers new broadband customers up to £100 in vouchers

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:21:36+00:00**

Author: **Linda Howard**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/money/virgin-media-flash-sale-offers-20824263)

Virgin Media has just launched a range of new deals to rival the fabulous freebies BT dropped on Tuesday.
BT is giving away a free LG 43” 4K ready Smart TV or an Xbox One S All-Digital Edition to new and existing customers who add or upgrade BT Sport to selected Superfast Fibre packages - view the deal here.
And now Virgin Media is offering customers up to £100 to spend in stores including Marks and Spencer, John Lewis, Debenhams and Amazon when they sign up for a broadband bundle.
These free vouchers are available to those signing up to its broadband only, broadband with phone and some full TV and broadband bundles, reports The Express .
M50 Fibre broadband / £30 month , includes average speeds of 54Mbps. Get a free £50 voucher with this offer here 
M50 Fibre broadband and phone / £28 month , includes Virgin phone line and average speeds of 54Mbps. Get a free £50 voucher with this offer here 
Limited Edition Bigger Bundle / £60 month , includes over 250 channels with Sky Cinema plus broadband speeds of around 200Mbps. Get a free £100 voucher with this offer here 
Bigger plus Sports and Movies Bundle / £79 month , includes over 250 channels with Sky Cinema and Sports plus broadband speeds of around 200Mbps. Get a free £100 voucher with this offer here 
All of these deals are for new customers on a 12-months contract and include a £35 set up fee.
If these deals don't take your fancy then don't panic as there are numerous other offers available right now from some of Virgin's rivals.
 
BT is currently giving customers the chance to get a free TV or Xbox One with certain broadband bundles and Sky has a huge sale on right now with reductions on its Netflix bundles.

        
          Browse the BT deals here
        
      
One of the biggest Sky discounts comes to those signing up to its Ultimate TV Experience bundle which is now just £50 rather than £73.
This includes Sky TV plus Netflix and there's Sports and movies thrown in for good measure.

        
          Browse the Sky deals here
        
      
