
# Mum, dad and son, 3, on family walk all killed by Halloween 'drunk driver'

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:36:17+00:00**

Author: **Brendan McFadden**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/dad-son-wife-family-walk-20807189)

A mum, dad and their three-year-old son died after a suspected drink driver veered off the road onto a path and mowed them down.
Joseph Awaida, 30, his wife Raihan, 30, and their son Omar were rushed to hospital after being hit by the 4x4 on Halloween in Long Beach, California.
Joseph died on Friday, Raihan died on Saturday while Omar was the last of his family to die when he passed away on Sunday.
Raihan's devastated father Faisal Dikhil said: "You have humans and you have angels. And those two individuals, they're closer to the angels, and I don't say that lightly
"It feels like a nightmare."
There has been an outpouring of grief in the community following the death and candles and tributes have been left at the scene, NBCLosAngeles reported.
Tarek Mohamed, Long Beach Islamic Center imam said: "Me and the family, and the whole Long Beach community [find it] shocking. The question is, why? Why did he do that? Why he drive fast? Why did he cause this pain to us?"
Raihan loved helping people and volunteering at local nonprofits.
 
The family were found on the ground at the scene of the crash.
Police claim the driver of a 2002 Toyota Sequoia 20-year-old Carlo Navarro was headed southbound and failed to make a turn, drove onto the path and hit the family.
Navarro, of Long Beach, was detained at the scene and later arrested for allegedly driving under the influence and gross vehicular manslaughter.
He is being held on a $100,000 (around £77,000) bail.
