
# Johnson, Farage Could Team Up as ‘Unstoppable Force’ Ahead of Election, Trump Says Amid Brexit Delay

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:38:00+00:00**

Author: **by Oleg Burunov**

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/world/201911011077195285-brexit-trump-johnson-farage/)


        Earlier this week, the EU formally agreed to extend Britain’s exit process until 31 January 2020, in a move that was followed by the UK Parliament’s House of Commons voting to hold a snap general election on 12 December.
      
In an interview with Britain’s LBC radio on Thursday, US President Donald Trump specifically urged UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to team up with Brexit Party leader Nigel Farage ahead of the upcoming election campaign.
He attacked Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, claiming that he would be “bad” for the UK, while praising Johnson for attempting to implement his Brexit deal
At the same time, Trump insisted that Johnson’s Brexit deal could prevent the UK from clinching a trade agreement with the US.
A No 10 spokesperson, in turn, was quoted by the BBC as saying that said the Brexit deal meant “we can strike our own free trade deals around the world, from which every part of the UK will benefit”.
The remarks followed a Tory source reportedly saying in September that Farage and his close ally Arron Banks were not “fit and proper persons” and that “they should never be allowed anywhere near government”.
Prime Minister Johnson, in turn, reportedly underscored that he is ready to grapple with the general election following a parliamentary vote to hold elections on 12 December.
He also expressed hope that the poll will give him public approval to carry on with his Brexit deal and break the parliamentary deadlock that had led to a further delay of Britain’s divorce from the EU until 31 January.
Farage, in turn, slammed Johnson’s recently renegotiated deal with the EU, but did not rule out the possibility of a last-minute pact with the Conservative Party.
The Labour Party, meanwhile, officially launched its campaign for the 12 December general election, with Corbyn lashing out at the US President and the current British government's relationship with him.
