
# Man Utd 'eyeing £100m Lautaro Martinez transfer' to spearhead attack

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:59:34+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/man-utd-eyeing-100m-lautaro-20787543)

Manchester United are reportedly weighing up a move for Inter Milan striker Lautaro Martinez.
The 22-year-old has been in good form for the Nerrazurri so far this season, netting seven times in 13 appearances, while also banging in a hat-trick for Argentina.
United are short of options up front, having sold Romelu Lukaku to the Serie A club in the summer, as well as loaning them Alexis Sanchez.
The Guardian report that United are considering making use of their recent business relations by moving for Martinez.
However they add that United will have to fork out up to £100 million to prise him from the San Siro.
Martinez has been a regular under manager Antonio Conte since the former Chelsea boss arrived in summer.
His form for his club has dramatically improved in this campaign, having fired an average of a goal every two games, compared to one in every four last season.
United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has limited firepower in his ranks, with Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial the only established strikers.
Youngster Mason Greenwood has also been involved in first-team action, but is still yet to start a game in the Premier League.
RB Salzburg hotshot Erling Braut Haaland is another on United's radar, with the club ready to battle Real Madrid and Juventus for his signature.
The 19-year-old has been banging the goals in for the Austrian outfit, and has teased a move to England.
But Juventus are confident of securing his talents with a £35 million bid, due to their close relations with Haaland's agent Mino Raiola, who is keen for his client to move to Turin.
