
# Chrissy Teigen's Cravings Website Crashed & She Responded With A Meme

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:02:13+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/chrissy-teigens-cravings-website-crashed-she-responded-with-a-meme-19296081)

The internet’s BFF launched a recipe website, and fans couldn't get enough. Chrissy Teigen’s Cravings website crashed shortly after its launch on Monday, Nov. 4. On Twitter, Teigen gave her followers a glimpse of the moments that led up to the launch of Cravings by Chrissy Teigen. The website, an extension of her Cravings cookbooks, includes Teigen’s favorite recipes, guides that detail her favorite restaurants and cookware, videos with her children Luna and Miles, and much more. Teigen’s mom, Pepper, also has her own “Pepper’s Corner" segment, which features the matriarch sharing her own recipes and craft hacks.
To celebrate the moment the website went live, Teigen shared a video on Monday across her social media platforms that featured her husband John Legend and their two children. “We are so excited to welcome you to my brand new website,” Teigen says in the clip. “I’ve been wanting to do a website that’s a true community of people that love Cravings — love the cookbook, love the cookware — and just a place where you can see everything that is our family.”
She concludes in the video, “We’re so excited to have you. I’m very proud to do this for you, and John is proud to pay for it.” A flabbergasted Legend then says to his wife, “I’m paying for it?" Teigen then hilariously replies, "Yes."
