
# Soweto Derby Fever And More Only On SuperSport!

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:10:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/supersport-1/supersport-3/666777)


        The South African football scene is heating up! We’re only three months in, and we’ve already seen triumph and heartbreak, the action doesn’t stop. November promises to deliver the same formula. Here's a look at the key matches in the various competitions coming up in November – stay connected to DStv to watch the drama unfold on SuperSport.
      
 

        Bidvest Wits vs SuperSport United - 
        SS4 & SS10 (ROA)
      
Kick-off at 20:00 (CAT)
Absa Premiership, Friday 8 November
A top-eight battle awaits at the Bidvest Stadium. The Students have quietly gone about their business, winning five of their six matches with 11 goals scored in that period. Matsatsantsa come into the fixture on a high having won the MTN8 and have key players in Thamsanqa Gabuza and Bradley Grobler performing consistently. The match will be a tactical showdown as both Kaitano Tembo and Gavin Hunt always deliver a masterclass in tactics.
 

        
          Get connected to DStv to enjoy the very best in local football, and all the ABSA Premiership action, LIVE! 
        
      
 

        Kaizer Chiefs vs Orlando Pirates SS4 - 
        (SA), SS10 (SA) & SS8 (ROA)
      
Kick-off at 15:30 (CAT)
Absa Premiership, Saturday 9 November
The fourth Soweto Derby of 2019 kicks off with a match that carries significance for both sides. Chiefs have been impressive thus far, having only lost once in their last eight games, including commanding wins over Cape Town City and Sundowns. Pirates will look to continue their dominance over their rivals, but their indifferent form will be worrisome for Rulani Mokwena and his troops.
 

        Mamelodi Sundowns vs Petro de Luanda
      
CAF Champions League, Friday 29 November
Mamelodi Sundowns, the 2016 champions of the CAF champion league, host the Angolan side Petro de Luanda in a Group C clash. The Pretoria based team has won three of their four matches in the tournament thus far including an 11-1 win over Cote d’Or. Petro de Luanda have won two and drawn two of their four games going into their trip to South Africa for their first game of the group stage.

        
          Don't miss out! Click here for more information on how you can watch all the biggest PSL, TKO and Nedbank Cup clashes this season!
        
      
