
# Rangers striker Alfredo Morelos reveals the truth about Aston Villa transfer link

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:17:44+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/morelos-transfer-aston-villa-rangers-17206914)

Alfredo Morelos has revealed he’s had no contact with any suitors about leaving Rangers in the January transfer window.
Aston Villa have been credited with a firm interest in the prolific striker who has already scored 20 goals this season.
At 23, Morelos’ age would appeal to Villa who have been keen to recruit players with the potential to grow since Dean Smith took charge.
The Colombia international has been valued at around £20m and it remains to be seen whether Villa will make their move.
But for now, Morelos has not held talks with any clubs about departing Ibrox in the New Year despite the rampant speculation which surrounds his future.
The only side who have previously tried to prise him away are French club Bordeaux, who had a bid rejected in the summer.
 
He told Antena 2: "There is much speculation about my departure, many teams that would be offering a good amount of money for me.
"I have not talked to anyone, but if God allows it I think that many clubs can come for good performances.
"But no, I've had no contact with anyone. The Bordeaux thing was true, but in the end no agreement was reached."
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Rangers boss Steven Gerrard said at the weekend that Morelos will "100 per cent" remain a Rangers player beyond January.
 
The forward added: "As a player he (Gerrard) also has his mistakes, I have learned a lot and Gerrard has advised me a lot.
"The refereees always complicated me in that aspect (the cards) but I learned from that, I am doing things better and well in that sense.
"With him I have a lot of confidence and he puts me to play as defined nine."
