
# Where’s Amit Shah, asks Congress as Delhi Police personnel take to streets

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:55:25+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/india/wheres-amit-shah-asks-congress-as-delhi-police-personnel-take-to-streets/271509/)

The Congress on Tuesday enquired about the whereabouts of Home Minister Amit Shah as thousands of Delhi Police personnel took to the streets protesting against assaults on their colleagues by lawyers. Terming the public protest by Delhi Police personnel as a ‘new low,’ Congress party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala took to Twitter to ask, “Police on protest in ”National Capital of Delhi”. “Is this BJP”s ”New India”? Where will BJP take the country? Where is India”s HM, Sh. Amit Shah.”
Later speaking to reporters, Surjewala said that Tuesday’s development was an example of the ‘utter failure of the leadership’ of Shah and the BJP. He asked, “Is this the new India that the BJP promised. When will this matter end?” He said that ‘a studied and conspiratorial silence will not work’ adding that the home minister cannot hide.
He added, “Delhi Police is not controlled by Lt. Governor of Delhi. Home Minister Amit Shah is directly in-charge of Delhi Police. Why is the HM ”missing in action”? Why is he not coming forward to restore law and order and address the concerns? Why is HM in hibernation?”
Surjewala’s attack prompted his supporters to trend the hashtag #WhereIsAmitShah on the microblogging site Twitter.
