
# Sask. NDP gripped by debate over union donations

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:00:11+00:00**

Author: **Arthur White-Crummey**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/saskatchewan/sask-ndp-gripped-by-fierce-debate-over-union-donations)

Labour delegates to the Saskatchewan NDP’s convention last weekend raised heated opposition to the idea of treating union money like corporate money, as the party discussed its plans for new campaign finance laws.
The trigger was a resolution that called on a future NDP government to overhaul existing laws to ban corporate and union donations, as well as contributions that come from out of province.
According to NDP provincial secretary John Tzupa, that’s already the policy of the party caucus. Ethics and democracy critic David Forbes regularly raises the matter in the provincial legislature to call on the government to beef up the rules and bring Saskatchewan in line with other jurisdictions.
The resolution wouldn’t even be binding on the party. But labour delegates from CUPE and SEIU-West came out strongly against it.
CUPE vice president Dylan Breland said the party should “fight corporate money as corporate money,” not as part of a broader effort to clamp down on all kinds of institutional donors.
“The left wing needs to stop making false equivalencies when we’re getting criticized by the right wing for receiving union funds, as they receive corporate funds,” he said. “Union funds and corporate funds are two completely different things. Unions represent members. Members are constituents. Corporations are just representing big bank accounts.”
Barb Cape from SEIU-West backed him up, and made a motion to essentially send the matter back for consultations with the labour movement.
“The labour movement funds this party to a huge extent, but beyond that, the labour movement was one of the founding pillars of this party. We are boots on the ground. We are your partners in fundraising,” Cape said.
Unions remain major fundraisers for the Saskatchewan NDP. During the most recent fiscal period in 2018, trade unions gave the party more than $243,000 out of total donations of $1,320,314.
The largest sum came from Unifor, but CUPE Saskatchewan and SEIU-West also gave thousands of dollars.
“The NDP needs the labour movement and the labour movement needs the NDP,” Cape said. “Let’s not forget that.”
By contrast, the NDP brought in roughly $31,000 in corporate donations over the 2018 period, largely from banks and law offices. The Saskatchewan Party fares significantly better in the corporate world. In 2018 it attracted roughly $750,000 in corporate donations.
It received only a single union donation over $250 in 2018, totalling $300.
Saskatchewan is a significant outlier on campaign finance rules. The federal government, for instance, bans all corporate and union donations to federal parties as well as individual contributions above roughly $1,600.
Donations well above that amount are not uncommon in Saskatchewan provincial politics. The Saskatchewan Party’s two top individual donors gave more than $5,000 each last year.
Tzupa admits that there are “conflicting opinions” within the party on what an NDP government should do to reform the law. But he does not view the dispute as a divisive issue.
Cape’s motion to refer the resolution to a committee succeeded, with even Forbes stressing the value of consultation.
But there was insufficient time to deal with it the next day, so the matter died.

        awhite-crummey@postmedia.com
      
