
# Young mum and teen boxing star found dead in her home

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Charlie Gall, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/charlie-gall/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/young-mum-teen-boxing-star-20810048)

A teenager who had returned to the boxing ring after a break to give birth to a baby girl has been found dead in her home.
Tributes were being paid to Inverness City Amateur Boxing Club fighter Nicola Rattray.
Her shattered family and heartbroken friends have been left reeling by the tragic loss of the 18-year-old who died on Friday.
Megan Gordon, who represented Scotland at the Gold Coast 2018 Commonwealth Games, said: “Heartbreaking, shared the ring with Nicola many times in exhibitions and in training and can’t give her one fault.
“All thoughts go out to her family and her gorgeous little baby.”
The night before she’d been sparring at her boxing club’s Merkinch Hall gym under the watchful eye of coach Laurie Redfern.
He said: “She was sparring at training on Thursday night and was looking better than ever. She seemed happy.
“I couldn’t believe it when I was told next day. It’s tragic. They’re a very nice family, it’s difficult.
“We’re all gutted as you can imagine. She was just 18. She was a lovely girl.”
Within hours of shocked friends learning of the tragedy, an online fund had been set up to support Nicola’s daughter Breigha born in March last year (2018).
Alaina Macleod launched the gofundme page ‘Raising for baby B’ on behalf of Nicola’s mum Gillian on Sunday.
In under 24 hours it had already raised just short of £3000.
 
Alaina’s page stated: “On the 1st of November everyone’s life was shattered when we found out the devastating news of Nicola Rattray.
“Everyone who knew Nicola would know how much of an amazing girl she grew up to be and still is.
“Nicola was talented in so many ways such as being part of the pipe band, having a passion for boxing and most importantly being the best mummy to baby B.
“This time of year is hard for everyone, especially being so close to Christmas.
“We all want Breigha to grow up and remember her mummy loved her.
“Nicola’s close friends and family have agreed to set up a gofundme page for Breigha.
“We would like to raise as much money as we possibly can to make sure Breigha has the best future. Just how Nicola would want it.”
The boxing club closed over the weekend out of respect for Nicola and her family.
Former pro boxer and Scotland coach Laurie, 71, a volunteer at Inverness for more than 25 years, spoke of his shock.
He said: “Her father was on the phone to me the night it happened. I’ve still to go and see them but will give it a day or two.
“Nicola won her last contest at the Ironworks in the first round, and I think it’s the happiest I’ve ever seen her.
“It’s a big stage for anyone in Inverness and it made her day.
“After having her baby she decided to join our club. It took her a wee while but she got stuck in and really worked at it.
“She made her debut for us at the Ironworks in September and won her bout in the first round.
“She just overwhelmed the other girl and the referee stopped the contest.
“She was so, so chuffed. She was running all over the place.”
Nicola, a former Inverness High School pupil who attended Inverness College UHI, was with the Highland Boxing Academy club.
But she hung up the gloves to have her baby and had only just returned to the ring with Inverness City.
Condolences for her parents Gillian and Len and sister Lauren swept across social media.
Christine Graham said: I have memories of Nicola from my daughter Eilidh’s Brownie and Guides days.
“Eilidh follows Nicola on Instagram and is very fond of her and admires the person and mother that she is.
“We were heartbroken and send all our love and support to you all.”
Kira Amanda Horne posted on Facebook: “I can’t believe I’m writing this absolutely devastated Nicola Rattray I grew up with you.
“You could’ve messaged me. I can’t believe this. I’m gonna miss you so much.
“You were such a light to this world. Oh Nicola man gonna miss you so much.”
Police Scotland were approached for comment but had no information.
However it is believed there were no suspicious circumstances surrounding Nicola’s death.
The appeal can be found on gofundme by searching for "raising for baby b".
