
# General Election 2019: Can EU citizens vote in a general election?

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:21:15+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Russell, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jennifer-russell/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/general-election-2019-can-eu-20825241)

Voters will head to the polls for the snap general election on December 12.
As of today, November 6, the official general election campaign strategies get underway from all political parties in the UK.
Parliament was dissolved at midnight and Prime Minister Boris Johnson has already notified the Queen of his intention to hold another election - just over two years since the last one in 2017.
However, not everyone who lives in the UK can vote in a general election .
More than three million EU citizens live in Britain, but unless they have British, Irish, Cypriot or Maltese citizenship, it's very likely they will not be able to vote in a December general election.
 
Here is everything you need to know:
No.
EU citizens can't vote in UK Parliament elections - a  general election - unless they are citizens of the Republic of Ireland, Cyprus or Malta. 
EU citizens living in the UK can register to vote, and can vote in the following:
But EU citizens cannot vote in UK Parliament elections - a general election - unless they are citizens of the Republic of Ireland, Cyprus or Malta. For more information click here.
Likewise, citizens of other EU countries cannot vote in similar general elections across the EU if they're not living in their home country. Municipal and European Parliament elections yes, but the rules are different for general elections.
