
# Why do people keep blaming the female victims of revenge porn?

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:53:22+00:00**

Author: **Yomi Adegoke**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/commentisfree/2019/nov/06/why-do-people-keep-blaming-the-female-victims-of-revenge-porn)


        The leaking of naked photographs of congresswoman Katie Hill has prompted a similar reaction to other acts of revenge porn – that it was somehow the woman’s fault
      
When it comes to offences that disproportionately affect women – rape, harassment, revenge porn – the onus is almost entirely placed on the victim to avoid them by taking the “right” steps and conscientiously avoiding the “wrong” ones.
This sentiment was reiterated by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, in comments made regarding the resignation of Democratic congresswoman Katie Hill. Her departure came after an ongoing campaign against her that included the leaking of naked photographs. “It goes to show you, we should say to young candidates, and to kids in kindergarten really, be careful when transmitting photos,” Pelosi said.
It is telling that the admonishment was saved for the victim, not the perpetrator. Though the source of the photos remains unconfirmed, Hill has said they were provided by her estranged husband (he has said he was hacked).
Her husband having access to naked images of her and choosing to leak them would be as “careless” on Hill’s part as him having access to her funds in a joint bank account and choosing to steal from her. “Taking care” simply doesn’t cut it when it comes to revenge porn – just ask the celebrities who were targeted by hackers in 2016, naked photos of them leaked online, regardless of whatever security measures they had in place.
The solution suggested by critics is to opt out of taking or sending nude pictures altogether – as Whoopi Goldberg advised when the actor Bella Thorne decided to share naked photos of herself online that a hacker was threatening to make public. “If you’re famous, I don’t care how old you are. You don’t take nude photos of yourself,” said Goldberg on the US talkshow, The View – conveniently forgetting that revenge porn is something that affects civilians as well as celebrities.
Thorne had been due to go on the show, but didn’t “feel like being beaten down by a bunch of older women”. There does, at times, appear to be a generational disconnect, with victim-blaming regarding nudes fast becoming the “How short was her skirt?” of the 2010s.
Even if no other woman on Earth sent another nude again, nudes would still leak. In 2012, Kate Middleton not only had topless images of her sunbathing published without her consent, but the images were taken without her permission, too. The same happened to the musician Sia, who deployed the tactic Thorne did when she learned they were being sold on the internet.
“Someone is apparently trying to sell naked photos of me to my fans,” she wrote, alongside the image in question. “Save your money, here it is for free.” If revenge porn is something we hope to end, perhaps it is time to focus on those seeking the revenge instead.
