
# 10 awesome products that do more than just look cool

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:40+00:00**

Author: **Boing Boing&#39;s Shop**

Original: [Boing Boing](https://boingboing.net/2019/11/03/10-awesome-products-that-do-mo.html)

What will they think of next? Read on. In every aspect of life, technology is improving on the little things. Here are 10 things that will actually make your life easier - and more fun.

        OPKIX Dual Wearable Camera + Egg Storage Bundle
      
Here's a body cam for the masses. Infinitely portable, it can clip onto just about anywhere and operate with a single click. And with 70 minutes of onboard footage time, you're ready when those once-in-a-lifetime moments come along.

        
          Sale Price: $495
        
      

        GoFish Cam Wireless Underwater Fishing Camera
      
Speaking of cameras, here's a waterproof one that attaches to your fishing line and takes you right into the action during your next catch. Equipped with a night vision LED and viewable through a mobile app, it offers even the most seasoned angler a point of view they've never seen before.

        MSRP: $239.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $229.99 with promo code GoFish10
        
      

        SteakStones® Pizza Stone
      
This stone heats up quickly in 10 minutes to give your pizza the perfect crust. Even when you're not indulging in pizza, it can double as a great serving tray or cheese board.

        MSRP: $150
      

        
          Sale Price: $127.50
        
      

        Grid Wallet
      
This minimalist wallet is made from two aluminum plates, perfectly sized for up to 12 cards plus a bit of cash. It takes away the bulk from your pocket but adds an extra dose of RFID protection in the bargain.

        MSRP: $65
      

        
          Sale Price: $25
        
      

        PLX Devices Kiwi 3 Bluetooth OBD2 OBDII Diagnostic Scan Tool
      
This diagnostic tool plugs into your car's onboard diagnostic port, giving you access to the same info professional mechanics use to troubleshoot. And since it runs on minimal power, it can be kept plugged in, transmitting warnings to your smartphone or other devices.

        MSRP: $89
      

        
          Sale Price: $69.99
        
      

        Ryze Tech Tello Quadcopter Iron Man Edition Powered by DJI
      
We can't all be Tony Stark, but this Marvel-themed drone might just train the next generation of techie do-gooders. With the accompanying Tello Hero App, you can master tricks and even program the drone to fly missions.

        
          Sale Price: $129
        
      

        ONE Mini Pocket Multilingual Assistant
      
This pocket translator ensures you're never at a loss for words no matter where you are. It can record and translate 12 languages on the fly, and even incorporates a live interpreter service along with its stellar AI.

        MSRP: $99
      

        
          Sale Price: $59
        
      

        CIRQ: World’s Smallest 1080p Projector
      
Turn virtually any flat surface into a 240" flatscreen with this supremely portable projector. It's got wi-fi capability, has its own hi-fi speakers and is capable of 1080p resolution - all in a package the size of your smartphone.

        MSRP: $600
      

        
          Sale Price: $299
        
      

        AnySharp Outdoor Knife Sharpener & Fire Starter
      
With your choice of tungsten carbide, ceramic, and diamond-tipped steel sharpeners, you'll never lose your edge when you're packing this gadget. It also incorporates a life-saving firestick that produces a thick, reliable spark.

        MSRP: $24
      

        
          Sale Price: $17
        
      

        Live & Let Drive James Bond Poster
      
Remember when we said these items would do more than just look cool? OK, we lied. With a graphic breakdown of 007's most iconic rides, looking cool is about all this poster does. But it really does excel at it.

        MSRP: $36.99
      

        
          Sale Price: $33.29
        
      
