
# Search launched for missing man who vanished from home in Perth

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:08:56+00:00**

Author: **Nicholas Keyden, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/nicholas-keyden/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/search-launched-missing-man-who-20833200)

A search has been launched for a missing man who vanished from his home in Perth .
Concerns are growing for Colin White who was last seen at the ASDA on Dunkeld Road around 4pm on Tuesday November 5.
The alarm was raised when the 35-year-old failed to show up to work despite saying that is where he was heading.
His car, a silver Ford Fiesta with the licence plate SW04KUF, was spotted on the A82 heading towards Invergarry around 4.15 am on Wednesday morning.
Police Scotland are appealing to anyone who may have information over his disappearance - it is the first time he has gone missing.
Colin, who is described as white, 6 ft in height, has short fair/blonde hair and blue eyes and was wearing a black jacket and blue jeans when last seen.
 
Constable Rory Miller, Perth Police Station, said: “Colin has never been missing before.
"It was when he didn’t turn up for work on Tuesday – after saying that was where he was heading – that the alarm was raised.
“Colin has worked all over the Highlands and Islands and we have been in touch with previous employers but unfortunately no one has heard from or seen him.
“He drives a silver Ford Fiesta SW04KUF and this car was on the A82 heading towards Invergarry around 4.15 am on Wednesday morning.
“We are keen to hear from anyone who may have seen Colin, or maybe knows where he is, to get in touch. His family are very concerned for him.
 
“We would also ask Colin to call us or his family to let everyone know he is ok.”
Information can be passed to officers at Perth Police Station via 101. Please quote reference number 2853 of 6 November 2019 when calling.
