
# Cameron Sangster quits Plymouth Argyle to focus on his business career mixing with world football stars

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:26:13+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/cameron-sangster-quits-plymouth-argyle-3498653)

Midfielder Cameron Sangster has quit his professional football career at Plymouth Argyle to concentrate on his business interests.
As reported by Plymouth Live last month, the 19-year-old has teamed up with Jake Self, a friend from his school days in Newton Abbot, to sell classic football boots as an independent supplier .
Their RareBoots4U company has soared to amazing heights, with some of the world’s top footballers among their clients.
They include Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubaneyang, Atletic Madrid pair Alvaro Morata and Joao Felix, plus Barcelona midfielder Ivan Rakitic.
Sangster has not ruled out a return to football at some point in the future, but for now he is focused on his business.
His contract at Argyle, which ran until the end of this season, has been cancelled by mutual consent.
Sangster had been on loan at Southern League Premier South side Dorchester Town, but that arrangement has also ended as he puts his business first.
The central midfielder was a graduate of Argyle’s academy and was highly-rated by former manager Derek Adams.
That led to him making two first team appearances as a substitute during the 2017/18 League One campaign.
He made his debut in a 4-1 win away to Oldham Athletic and also got a run-out in a 5-2 defeat at Gillingham.
Sangster missed much of last season because of a badly broken ankle in a Central League game against Bristol Rovers.
He then did not feature in the first team plans of Ryan Lowe at the start of this term, leading to his short spell at Dorchester.
Sangster confirmed he would be stepping away from football to pursue his business interests in a message on Instagram.
He wrote: “11 years at @Only1Argyle has come to an end. I’d like to thank everyone as #pafc for everything they have done for me from a 9-year-old boy until now.
“Met some unbelievable people, made friends for life and created some amazing memories that will stay with me forever.
“I can’t thank the academy staff enough for the time and effort they devoted to me to improve me as a player and a person and the belief they had in me to make it as a professional footballer.

        Keep an eye out on our social media pages for more Argyle news - we are on Twitter  @HeraldPAFC  and on Facebook Plymouth Live - Argyle  
      

        You can follow Argyle reporter Chris Errington on Twitter @ChrisErrington1 and on Facebook HeraldChris
      

        Plymouth Live has launched a WhatsApp service dedicated to keeping you up to date with the latest Argyle news.  Click here to join  and follow the instructions on your phone.
      

        Your number will not be shared with anyone else in the group. If you want more information on signing up, or if this link does not work  click here.
      

         
      
“As hard a decision it was, after speaking with people close to me and giving it serious thought, I’ve decided to step away from football and pursue my business interests.
“I will never rule out coming back to football at some point in the future but at this moment in time I’m focused on my business and the opportunity that lies ahead.
“I wish all the very best to everyone at @Only1Argyle for the future.”
