
# Nissan Kicks Street Sport Stalks SEMA As A Tuned Compact Crossover

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Christopher Smith**

Original: [Motor1.com](https://www.motor1.com/news/380356/nissan-kicks-street-sport-compact-sema/?utm_source=RSS&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=RSS-all-)

The age of crossovers is upon us. If you need further convincing of that, consider Nissan’s presence at the 2019 SEMA Show. To satisfy the big horsepower sports car crowd there’s a bonkers time attack 370Z with 750 hp (559 kilowatts) under the hood. Off-road fans get a similarly powerful Frontier Desert Runner with a 600-hp (447 kW) boosted V8. The truck faithful can peruse all sorts of Nissan accessories for its full-size Titan. And the sport compact crowd gets . . . A Nissan Kicks?
Actually, it’s not at all as bad as it sounds. Small crossovers are certainly popular and the Kicks generally falls into the above-average category. After spending time with the inexpensive five-door last year we found it rather snazzy in the looks department while offering nice tech and a surprising amount of space. If anything, the performance was a bit underwhelming but that’s where the Kicks Street Sport comes in.
That’s right – in addition to the requisite body kit and fat tires, this SEMA-soaking crossover sports a turbocharged engine. Specifically, Nissan turned to MA Motorsports for a custom Garrett turbocharger kit and an engine tune, with a Nismo exhaust system on the other end for good measure. Unfortunately, Nissan’s spec sheet doesn’t list power output, but the stock Kicks wasn’t boring with its standard-issue 125 hp (93 kW) rating, so anything is an improvement. Custom coilovers at all four corners should also be an improvement in the performance realm. This really is starting to sound like a proper sport compact build.
That holds especially true when you check out the Kicks’ bonkers body kit. 360 Composites created side skirts, a roof spoiler, and a massive front air dam that’s almost comically large. MA Motorsports upped the ante further with a widebody treatment to the fenders, which are then filled with 245/45-17-inch tires on Volk Racing wheels with a big offset. And since you can’t have a race car without racing seats, Sparco SPX carbon buckets replace the stock units inside.
Is this something you can buy at your local Nissan dealership? No. Is it something you can build yourself through your local Nissan dealership? No. Is there a market for creating custom compact crossovers like this as opposed to tweaking a Civic, or GTI, or even a Nissan Versa? That remains to be seen, but Nissan is at least showing the world that it could be a thing. And it could be a pretty cool thing to boot.
Source: Nissan
The Urban Dictionary defines “kicking it” as “chilling out or relaxing.” The term mightneed to be reconsidered when applied to the aggressive look and performance of theNissan Kicks Street Sport. Starting with a bone stock Nissan Kicks compact crossover,the team at MA Motorsports worked with Nissan Motorsports to cross many lines ofconformity in bringing this ultimate Kicks to life.The Kicks’ body was dramatically transformed using Kicks Color Studio touches andcustom pieces from 360 Composites – including an oversize front air dam, rear roofspoiler and side skirts. MA Motorsports fabricated the wide fender flares at each cornerto perfectly fit the Volk Racing TE37V 17x8.5 +30 offset wheels mounted with FalkenAzenis RT615K +245/45R17 tires. To help give the Kicks Street Sport the right stanceand name-worthy handling, a custom suspension was constructed using a combination ofNISMO/Ohlins coil-over shock absorbers.
Next, the MA Motorsports team turned its attention to kicking up the stock 1.6-liter four-cylinder engine, fabricating and installing a custom turbocharger kit. The new system
utilizes a Garrett GT2255 turbocharger, Turbosmart diverter valve and UPREV ECU. Acustom fabricated NISMO exhaust helps the engine breathe.Sparco SPX carbon bucket seats anchor the custom interior upholstery. Topping off theKicks Street Sport project is an attention grabbing body wrap and graphics created bySpeed Designs.
NISSAN KICKS STREET SPORT SPECIFICATIONSNissan Kicks compact SUV body and chassisNissan 1.6-liter DOHC 16-valve inline 4-cylinderXtronic transmission
Garrett GT2255 turbochargerTurbosmart Diverter valveMA Motorsports Customer turbo kitNISMO/MA Motorsports Custom SS exhaustUPREV Electronic Control UnitNISMO/Ohlins Custom coilover shock absorbersRAYS Volk Racing TE37V 17x8.5 +30 wheelsFalken Azenis RT615K+ 245/45R17 tiresSparco SPX Carbon bucket seatsNissan Color Studio mirror covers, air vent trim rings, lower door accent, rear hatch accent, rear bumper accent, door handle covers360 Composites Custom aerodynamic body kit – front air dam, rear roof spoiler, side skirtsMA Motorsports Custom fender flaresSpeed Designs Custom graphics and body wrap
*Project vehicle not available for purchase. Includes non-Nissan accessories that are not warranted by Nissan.
