
# Man racks up £200 sex line bill before fatally stabbing woman 19 times

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:40:31+00:00**

Author: **Tom Kershaw**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/man-racks-up-200-sex-20803826)

A young man ran up a £200 bill ringing sex chat lines before he went on to murder a riding instructor.
Daniel Edwards, who killed Fiona Southwell after she took his stable hand job, racked up the phone bill at the guest house he was staying at in his home town of Hornsea, Yorkshire.
His "shenanigans" had forced Edwards to leave the family address and take up residence at a guest house as he began work as a stable hand, Hull Live reported.
The startling new revelations came to light following a documentary called Killer Colleagues on the new dedicated channel  Sky Crime.
Edwards, who was 22 at the time and described as "a loner", killed the 60-year-old riding instructor at Grange Farm, Seaton, on July 15, 2016.
He stabbed Miss Southwell 19 times in a stable  after she took his job and he was found guilty of murder at  Hull Crown Court  following a trial.
He was  jailed for life  in February 2017 - serving a minimum jail term of 24 years.
In the days leading up to the killing, Edwards had shared a message on Facebook which said: "One day I'm just gonna say f*** it all and let my demons out to play."
 
Mark Teale, a guest house owner in Edwards' home town of Hornsea, said that he had accommodated him after his "strange behaviour" had got him out kicked out of his family home.
Speaking about the time Edwards spent at the guest house, Mr Teale said: "He was quite a quiet lad and didn't say quite a great deal.
"The time he spent with us, we have phones in all the guest rooms and we had a bill for £200 linked to sex chat lines and other things like that.
"We soon realised that it was Daniel who was phoning these sex lines and that sort of things.
"He began to take more and more liberties with us and he was up to all sorts of shenanigans."
Edwards lasted only three months at the guest house before he was kicked out by Mr Teale.
He secured a job at the nearby farm in Seaton - only to be sacked and Miss Southwell take his place.
During the trial, Edwards claimed not to have visited Grange Farm that day during the court hearing, but he could not explain why his victim's blood was found on his clothes and his ankle.
Detective Chief Inspector Tony Cockerill,  Humberside Police's  senior investigating officer in the case, also appears in the documentary speaking about the investigation.
He said it was CCTV images of a neighbour that caught the chilling moment Edwards walks calmly past a countryside lane just minutes after he killed the stable hand.
Speaking of the murder, DCI Cockerill said: "It was a sustained, extremely vicious attack with an extreme level of violence, and to consider how long it takes to cause that number of injuries is a disturbing thought."
The documentary is part of the new series on Sky Crime called Killer Colleagues.
