
# To Become A Resilient Leader, Communicate Assertively

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Joynicole Martinez**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescoachescouncil/2019/11/06/to-become-a-resilient-leader-communicate-assertively/)

There are times when leaders must focus on directives and require behaviors with immediate effect rather than working to influence individuals toward a desired action or behavior further down the road. However, communicating behind the shield of an aggressive posture can convey a lack of respect for those you manage.I've noticed that many leaders too often fall prey to the mounting pressure resulting from balancing multiple roles and concurrent tasks, which can cause an explosion of aggressive behaviors. As a coach, I help professionals balance their priorities and develop their capacity to clearly assert boundaries — a skill that's critical to successful time management and leadership.
Leaders who are skilled in complex communication often exhibit adaptive and assertive communication. These resilient communicators are keenly self-aware — they've been tested and sharpened by life and circumstance. They establish a genuine connection with others through adaptive thinking and effective communication. Their assertiveness opens the channels of communication without deliberately activating the defense mechanism of the listener. These resilient leaders tend to act on the courage of personal conviction that's created and refined through experience, and this conviction often requires assertiveness.
What exactly is assertive communication, though? At its core, assertive communication is speaking from an authentic sense of self-value and self-respect. I've found that resilient leaders are usually defined by an uncompromising commitment to their core values. These values stem from experience, are shaped by environment and are defined by the leader's ability to respond and recover successfully. This allows them to transform stressful situations or adversity into opportunities to learn and thrive.
Assertive communication is the verbal language of a resilient center balanced with empathic responsiveness to other participants in the conversation. This active listening, coupled with concise and assured responses, demonstrates self-confidence and competence in a manner that develops influence and establishes the speaker as authentic.
I believe that resilient leaders must employ assertive communication to confirm their position as transformational leaders and to minimize uncertainty and protect well-being in the work environment. Assertive communication is direct and respectful, thereby minimizing internal conflict. According to the Mayo Clinic, "assertiveness can help you control stress and anger and improve coping skills." Moreover, communicating clearly and assertively honors the respect, integrity and dignity a leader has for themselves and others. Some research has found "that leaders who are perceived as being more assertive are also perceived as being more honest and having higher integrity than those who are not."
Assertive communication reduces unnecessary "noisy information" and provides a sense of stability and belonging to followers. When communication is effective, the needs of all participants in a conversation are considered. This creates stronger interpersonal bonds and a sense of community. The combination of resilience and assertiveness characterizes a leader who inspires, is able to connect to their followers' sense of belonging to a project, team or community and raises individuals' level of motivation and modeling behavior and influence.
To communicate assertively:
• Be clear and straightforward. Share factual information regarding the effects of behaviors, stating what you're feeling and what the other person can do to assist.
• Use "I want," "I need" or "I feel" statements, which are less likely to put the listener on the defensive. People generally don't want to listen to blaming and condemning statements.
• Use assertive body language. Stand up straight, maintain a body position that expresses calm, look directly at the listener and maintain eye contact. I've witnessed conversations spiral out of control as the speaker's fists were clenched and they looked away in an effort to control their heightened emotions. Show your intention and interest by holding the listener's gaze.
Leading is a balancing act between serving both as the director and a member of a team. It's the dance between coaching and directing. When you, as a leader, communicate effectively and with assertiveness, you stay true to yourself while honoring the individuality and resilience of others.
