
# Coaching Barcelona has always been the dream, reveals Ronald Koeman

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:12:49+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/04/coaching-barcelona-has-always-been-the-dream-reveals-ronald-koeman?utm_medium=rss)


        Barcelona legend Ronald Koeman has been linked with the manager job at Barcelona after Ernesto Valverde has struggled to manage the team and deliver impressive results. Koeman has revealed that managing his former club has always been a dream for him and he hopes it will come true one day.
      
Current Netherlands manager Ronald Koeman has expressed his interest in taking the manager’s role at Barcelona should he be approached for the job. However, the former Everton boss admitted that he will not take any job until after Euro 2020, as reported by the Express. The Dutch manager has been backed by Blaugrana supporters to take over from Ernesto Valverde, who has been unimpressive and failed to win games regularly.
Koeman is aware about the tense situation at Barcelona and is keen to be the manager of the Catalan club one day but it won’t be before the Euros next year. Barcelona sit at the top of the La Liga table despite suffering a heavy 3-1 loss to Levante at Ciudad de Valencia on Saturday. This has brought Valverde’s position in danger with supporters asking for Spaniard’s sacking following the dismal away run and poor performances.
“It's only about Barcelona and also about a time after the European Championship. I'm not leaving now, that's 100 per cent certain. I think that as a national coach you are entering a process and that takes two years. After the European Championship there is an evaluation moment and who knows, the KNVB may say: 'We have performed so badly at the European Championship, we are not going any further.' Then we will not go further. But I have the opportunity to leave for one club, and there is only one club in it. I can safely say that I will not leave the Dutch national team for anyone else. I have said often enough that [Barcelona] is my dream club,” said Koeman to the Express.
Ernesto Valverde said that he isn’t considering resignation after a shambolic loss to 11th placed Levante and said that it was just a defeat and the team should aim to move forward. Valverde has been heavily criticised over the years for his pragmatic approach and is rightly blamed for the Rome and Liverpool fiasco.
“Of course I'm not thinking about resigning, it's just a defeat. The players have responded and we have to continue [working]. We have lost a match and that's it; we always react and this time won't be any different,” said Valverde.
