
# Canelo Alvarez Vs. Sergey Kovalev Results: KO Highlight (VIDEO), Twitter Reaction And Analysis

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/03/canelo-alvarez-vs-sergey-kovalev-results-ko-highlight-video-twitter-reaction-and-analysis/)

Canelo Alvarez is the new WBO Light Heavyweight champion. On Saturday night at the MGM Grand Garden Arena, Canelo scored a clutch 11th-round KO victory over Sergey Kovalev. Here is a look at the finish:
The fight was close at the time of the KO. In fact, I had it scored 96-94 for Kovalev when he was put down in the 11th. Two of the official judges had the fight scored 96-94 for Canelo and another had it even.
Here’s how the boxing community reacted to Canelo’s win:
Kovalev showed great skills with his jab and he even mixed in some body shots. His stamina didn’t appear to be too much of an issue. However, he slowed down just enough, and got careless with his defense as Canelo continued to turn up the pressure, and he got caught.
The victory moves Canelo’s professional record to 53-1-2. Kovalev drops to 34-4. The KO was the 36th of Canelo’s career. Canelo has now done what very few men in the history of that sport have done, and that’s win world titles in four different weight classes. DAZN’s Chirs Mannix asked Canelo about a third fight with Golovkin, but Canelo called it less than a challenge. However, he implied if it made business sense, he’d consider doing it again.
The conversation around a third fight with Golovkin isn’t going anywhere, and that’s especially the case with GGG now again holding a share of the middleweight title. However, with Canelo moving between 160, 68 and 175, he has a wealth of options.
Many of us would love to see him take on WBO middleweight champion Demetrius Andrade. Canelo has never shown a ton of willingness to fight Andrade, despite the latter sharing network affiliation on DAZN.
We’ll likely have to wait until May to see Canelo back in the ring.
Kovalev has some things to think and about and take care of following this loss. This was his third defeat by KO. He’s now again without a world title, and facing some legal problems stemming from an assault charge. It’s an understatement to say he’s already had a rough month and we’re just two days into November.
Based on these circumstances, it’s hard to tell when he’ll be back in the ring.
