
# Boy, 4, traumatised after seeing 'naughty boy' stab teen in back at fireworks display

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:05:13+00:00**

Author: **Olivia Tobin, Lorraine King**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/boy-4-traumatised-after-seeing-20821839)

A four-year-old boy was left traumatised after he witnessed a teenager being stabbed in the back at a fireworks display.
The child also told his mum Nikki he wanted to "stop a naughty boy" after seeing the attacker brandishing a "huge knife" near Sherdley Park in St Helens.
The 17-year-old victim was rushed to hospital where his condition has been described as non life-threatening.
Nikki, from St Helens, told the Liverpool Echo she was out with her partner, and their other child, who is two, when the family stumbled onto the bloodbath.
The mother-of-two said: "My four-year-old is absolutely traumatised.
 
"He's asking me 'why did the naughty boys have a knife' and he's asking if 'the naughty boys with the knife know where we live.'
"He told me he's trying to be brave but said he wished he'd given 'the naughty boy a punch'."
Nikki said she was so overcome with fear and shock she vomited when she returned to her car with her family after crying.
She said: "I think that once I realised I was safe back at the car, I just threw up."
 
Nikki said the family saw concerned Bonfire Night revellers try to save the boy's life as he lay bleeding in the street.
The family-of-four were were walking through Sutton Park to Sherdley Park before her two-year-old dropped a glove.
While retrieving it, Nikki said she saw a teenage boy with a knife "as long as your forearm," at about 8pm.
She said: "It was definitely a kitchen knife, but it was there to cause harm, it was huge.  No one should of had knives there.
"I feel awful to say it now but I just pulled my son by the scruff of his neck and pulled him away back to the road.
"Then we saw a young lad on the floor next to a burger van and there was loads of people around him trying to help him.
"They were just stood round him and putting pressure on him."
Nikki said the young man was bleeding in the street. She claims the boy she saw with a knife "ran off" afterward.
"He looked like he may have been his friend and he wasn't involved," she added.
Merseyside Police confirmed one person has been arrested on suspicion of assault.
Superintendent Paddy Kelly said: "Although this incident did not happen at the fireworks display, it is still shocking which again, although is believed to be targeted, has taken place in an area where there are undoubtedly lots of innocent children and members of the public wondering around."
A spokesman for the force said: "We were called shortly after 7.30pm to reports of an altercation on the grass verge by the roadway.
"A 17 year old male was treated by ambulance staff and has since been taken to hospital where his condition is described as serious but non life threatening."
Spt Kelly added: "This is currently a live investigation and officers at the scene are working with security staff to secure the area, analyse CCTV and conduct forensic analysis and urge anyone with information to come forward quoting log 1051 of 5th November.
"We cannot have this sort of reckless and brutal behaviour and we will do everything we can to bring the offenders to justice."
