
# Preity Zinta shows off her Pashto skills yet again

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:06:08+00:00**

Author: **Entertainment Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2092762/4-preity-zinta-shows-off-pashto-skills-yet/)

Aside from her acting, Preity Zinta has always been popular for her childish appearance, dimples and welcoming personality. In a recent video she posted on her Instagram, the star seems to be showing off all three, along with another particular spectrum of her interests.
The apparently ‘candid’ video shows her running into a friend in a  mall, whom she greets with her Pashto speaking skills, and she does not seem to be forcing it at all.
Zinta captions her video with an appreciation post for Afghanistan’s bowler, Mujeebur Rehman, who taught her the basics of the language.
“Showing off my Pashto skills with my gorgeous friend Zaynab. Thank you Mujeeb Zadran for teaching me Pashto. Next IPL I will learn some more.”
The star added a translation of the communication, “Salam, how are you ? I’m good, how are you? I’m good thanks. Thank you Mujeeb for teaching me Pashto.”
The star co-own’s Kings XI Punjab, a franchise cricket team based in Mohali, that plays in the Indian Premier League, and it seems the actor did a lot more than just watch cricket during the tournaments. Other owners of the franchise include Ness Wadia, Mohit Burman and Karan Paul.
She had posted a video with the sportsperson when she learned the language initially.
Nevertheless, it seems the star has not forgotten what she learnt, and closed her caption on the note that she’ll be looking forward to learn more of the language from the bowler in future tournaments.
