
# Armagh brothers wanted over Essex deaths still cannot be arrested in Republic

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **CLAIRE SIMPSON**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/06/news/armagh-brothers-wanted-over-essex-deaths-still-cannot-be-arrested-in-republic-1757628/)

TWO Armagh brothers wanted over the deaths of 39 migrants in a lorry in Essex still cannot be arrested in the Republic.
It is understood that Ronan Hughes (40) and his brother Christopher (34), who are wanted on suspicion of manslaughter and human trafficking, are in Co Monaghan.
The Hughes family has links to an address in Tyholland in the border county.
However, it is believed that gardaí do not have the power to arrest them because Essex Police have not yet obtained a European Arrest Warrant (EAW).
The EAW, which can often take weeks to be processed, is required because the alleged crimes were not committed in the Republic.
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
Essex Police travelled to Belfast last week to appeal for the brothers to hand themselves in.
Detective Chief Inspector Daniel Stoten said officers had already spoken to Ronan Hughes on the phone but needed to meet him in person.
It is understood Ronan Hughes, a convicted cigarette smuggler, has had telephone conversations with both Essex Police and the PSNI.
The bodies of 31 men and eight women were found in a container at an industrial park in Grays in the early hours of October 23.
Mo Robinson (25), of Laurelvale, Co Armagh, appeared at Chelmsford Magistrates' Court on Monday of last week, charged with 39 counts of manslaughter, conspiracy to traffic people, conspiracy to assist unlawful immigration and money laundering.
Essex Police have also started extradition proceedings to bring 22-year-old Eamonn Harrison, from Mayobridge in Co Down, to the UK.
Mr Harrison appeared in the High Court in Dublin on Friday. He is facing charges including 39 counts of manslaughter, along with human trafficking and immigration offences.
Three other people arrested in connection with the investigation - a 38-year-old man, a 38-year-old woman, and a 46 year-old man - have all been released on bail until later this month.
