
# ISPs Lied To Congress To Spread Confusion About Encrypted DNS, Mozilla Says

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:03:00+00:00**

Author: **BeauHD**

Original: [news.slashdot.org](https://news.slashdot.org/story/19/11/04/2040227/isps-lied-to-congress-to-spread-confusion-about-encrypted-dns-mozilla-says?utm_source=rss1.0mainlinkanon&utm_medium=feed)

An anonymous reader quotes a report from Ars Technica: Mozilla is urging Congress to reject the broadband industry's lobbying campaign against encrypted DNS in Firefox and Chrome. The Internet providers' fight against this privacy feature raises questions about how they use broadband customers' Web-browsing data, Mozilla wrote in a letter sent today to the chairs and ranking members of three House of Representatives committees. Mozilla also said that Internet providers have been giving inaccurate information to lawmakers and urged Congress to "publicly probe current ISP data collection and use policies." DNS over HTTPS helps keep eavesdroppers from seeing what DNS lookups your browser is making. This can make it more difficult for ISPs or other third parties to monitor what websites you visit. "Unsurprisingly, our work on DoH [DNS over HTTPS] has prompted a campaign to forestall these privacy and security protections, as demonstrated by the recent letter to Congress from major telecommunications associations. That letter contained a number of factual inaccuracies," Mozilla Senior Director of Trust and Security Marshall Erwin wrote. This part of Erwin's letter referred to an Ars article in which we examined the ISPs' claims, which center largely around Google's plans for Chrome. The broadband industry claimed that Google plans to automatically switch Chrome users to its own DNS service, but that's not what Google says it is doing. Google's publicly announced plan is to "check if the user's current DNS provider is among a list of DoH-compatible providers, and upgrade to the equivalent DoH service from the same provider." If the user-selected DNS service is not on that list, Chrome would make no changes for that user.
