
# 38 photos of Edgbaston's breathtaking fireworks display as Birmingham celebrates Bonfire Night 2019

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:40:28+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/38-photos-edgbastons-breathtaking-fireworks-17193151)

Brilliant photographs have emerged of Birmingham celebrating the Edgbaston fireworks spectacular as thousands attended the cricket ground's Bonfire Night bonanza.
The city turned out with Brummies heading to Edgbaston in their droves on Saturday night (November 2).
The eagerly anticipated event saw a spectacular array of fireworks launched into the air, with Birmingham residents and city locals of all ages enjoying the proceedings.
The family-friendly event kicked off from 5.30pm, with family entertainment and a brilliant fun fair thrilling little ones.

        Take a look at our gallery below to see if you were caught on camera and relive the breath-taking firework display.
      
There was even a breathtaking LED light display for you to enjoy, with the show also featuring superhero special guests.
Spiderman, Iron Man, Wonder Woman or Hulk were all in attendance as kids flocked to have their faces painted.
The venue's catering outlets were also open for the evening, with locals munching on everything from hot dogs to hog roasts.
There was even popcorn, doughnuts and crepes to boot!
The event has sold out in advance for the last three years and organisers had urged visitors to purchase their tickets early to avoid disappointment.
The spectacular display began at 7.45pm, before the fun fair continued at 8pm.
 
The event culminated at 9pm with thousands of Brummies heading home thrilled with what they had seen.
November 5 is still a couple of days away, admittedly, but we're keeping you up-to-date with coverage across Brum.
Expect displays in Wolverhampton , Walsall , Solihull , West Bromwich , Tamworth , Sutton Coldfield , Dudley and more.
