
# Manchester United 3-0 Partizan Belgrade: Hosts qualify for Europa League last 32

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:25:28+00:00**

Author: **Simon Stone**

Original: [BBC Sport](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/50322325)


        Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said his side provided a "template" for how they should play this season as they beat Partizan Belgrade to reach the Europa League last 32.
      
First-half goals from Mason Greenwood and Anthony Martial were followed by a powerful finish from Marcus Rashford after the break to complete United's biggest home win since August, with Solskjaer describing the performance of his front three as "high class".
The result keeps Solskjaer's men top of Group L. Victory in their final match against AZ Alkmaar on 12 December will ensure a top seeding in the last 32, no matter what happens when they go to Kazakhstan to play Astana in three weeks.
"Too many times we're 1-0 up and haven't got the second but these boys are learning and this will give them loads of pointers of how we play when performing well," said Solskjaer.
"The opposition is not the same as in the Premier League but these are still good principles."
Manchester United are the only side in the competition not to concede a goal this season. It also extended their unbeaten run in the Europa League to 15 matches, three short of Chelsea's tournament record of 18.
It wasn't all good news for United, though. Scott McTominay hurt the inside of his right foot in an innocuous challenge and although the Scotland midfielder tried to continue, he had to be replaced by Jesse Lingard 15 minutes from time.
Manchester United's Europa League group campaign could hardly be described as exciting as it passed its halfway point.
They had scored two goals in their first three games and not had a shot on target in open play since a left-footed effort from Jesse Lingard in the final minute of the first match against Astana at Old Trafford on 19 September.
A crowd bolstered by nearly 1,000 noisy Serbs only had to wait eight minutes for that run to come to an end as Juan Mata found Rashford with a short pass, only for Vladimir Stojkovic to make a close-range save.
By that point, both sides had been denied a goal by an offside flag, which would have been a relief for Harry Maguire given it was his attempted clearance that looped over Sergio Romero off Umar Sadiq.
United's eventual seven shots on target was a figure they have exceeded only three times in all competitions this season.
A month before the season had even started, Solskjaer spoke of his belief that Greenwood would score plenty of goals this season.
It has subsequently transpired that United were asking rather a lot of a player who did not even turn 18 until 1 October.
This was his 12th appearance out of 17 games in a campaign where he has also been an unused substitute on three occasions. The manner in which he took his 21st-minute goal, stepping inside after receiving an excellent pass with the outside of his foot from Rashford, then sliding a shot under Stojkovic, hinted at a maturity beyond his years.
It was his third goal of the season, a number bettered only by Rashford and Martial at United this season, and it is worth noting that he is doing so at an age when Rashford, a teenage England international, had not even made his senior debut.
If Greenwood's contribution needs to be accepted as a bonus at Old Trafford this season, Martial has to be a central figure.
In Wednesday's pre-match news conference, Solskjaer raised an eyebrow when he said there were two sides to the France forward and that when he was in a good mood his presence on the training ground was great but horrible when he was in a bad one.
The same could be said about his on-field contribution, which was neatly encapsulated in the space of a couple of minutes here.
Martial's brilliant first touch to get the ball under control on the edge of the box, then the balance that took him past Strahinja Pavlovic and Bojan Ostojic inside it, were sublime. The right-footed finish was exactly what such skill deserved.
Yet, on United's next attack, Martial sprinted clear of the Partizan defence and faced with a stranded Stojkovic way off his line, sent his chip sailing into the stand behind the goal.
In the context of this game, the failure meant nothing, but it is precisely the type of bread-and-butter chance Solskjaer has been working on with Martial since he arrived at the club last December.
Solskjaer labelled Martial's goal as the "skill of the night" and the Frenchman was a pivotal part of a comprehensive victory.
As the man earmarked by Solskjaer at the start of the season to fill the number nine role, Martial's presence provides United with balance and allows Rashford to attack from wider positions, where he was a particular threat in this match.
It has not been a bad run of results for United since the last international break but only one of their four victories has come in the Premier League.
Indeed, they have now won four times in six cup games this season compared to three triumphs in 11 league fixtures, underlining why they go into Sunday's game against Brighton in 10th spot, two points behind their visitors and an incredible 18 adrift of leaders Liverpool.
Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer told BT Sport: "We needed a win but we needed a performance in which the boys wanted to go forward and score more than one goal. We could have had loads more but it was pleasing and it was important to get the points.
"You expect to win at home against teams like this. No disrespect to Partizan, because they gave us a really good game over there, but at home you expect to win. We should have buried it in the first 10 minutes but going in 2-0 at half-time makes you are confident.
"We want to win the group but travelling away to Astana is not one to look forward to with Aston Villa, Spurs and Manchester City the week after, so maybe we will rest a few players for that game."
On Scott McTominay's injury: "He said he will be OK but I don't know, hopefully he is fit for Sunday [against Brighton]."
Manchester United are next in action against Brighton, at Old Trafford, in the Premier League on Sunday (14:00 GMT). Matchday five in the Europa League takes Solskjaer's side to Astana on Thursday, 28 November (15:50 GMT).
Referee:Mattias Gestranius
Home TeamMan UtdAway TeamPartizan BelgradePossessionHome64%Away36%ShotsHome14Away2Shots on TargetHome7Away0CornersHome3Away0FoulsHome11Away14
Posted at
Match ends, Manchester United 3, Partizan Belgrade 0.
Posted at 90'+4'
Second Half ends, Manchester United 3, Partizan Belgrade 0.
Posted at 86'
Offside, Manchester United. Juan Mata tries a through ball, but Jesse Lingard is caught offside.
Posted at 86'
Substitution, Partizan Belgrade. Djordje Ivanovic replaces Umar Sadiq.
Posted at 83'
Corner, Manchester United. Conceded by Bojan Ostojic.
Posted at 78'
Juan Mata (Manchester United) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 78'
Foul by Bojan Ostojic (Partizan Belgrade).
Posted at 76'
Hand ball by James Garner (Manchester United).
Posted at 75'
Substitution, Manchester United. Jesse Lingard replaces Scott McTominay because of an injury.
Posted at 72'
Scott McTominay (Manchester United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 72'
Foul by Aleksandar Scekic (Partizan Belgrade).
Posted at 72'
Mason Greenwood (Manchester United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 72'
Foul by Strahinja Pavlovic (Partizan Belgrade).
Posted at 71'
Ashley Young (Manchester United) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Posted at 71'
Foul by Ashley Young (Manchester United).
Posted at 71'
Zoran Tosic (Partizan Belgrade) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Posted at 70'
Substitution, Partizan Belgrade. Filip Stevanovic replaces Takuma Asano.
Posted at 67'
Substitution, Manchester United. Andreas Pereira replaces Marcus Rashford.
Posted at 67'
Scott McTominay (Manchester United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 67'
Foul by Slobodan Urosevic (Partizan Belgrade).
Posted at 65'
Foul by Mason Greenwood (Manchester United).
Posted at 65'
Slobodan Urosevic (Partizan Belgrade) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Posted at 63'
Substitution, Manchester United. James Garner replaces Fred.
Posted at 61'
Foul by Anthony Martial (Manchester United).
Posted at 61'
Sasa Zdjelar (Partizan Belgrade) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 61'
Offside, Manchester United. Marcus Rashford tries a through ball, but Anthony Martial is caught offside.
Posted at 60'
Substitution, Partizan Belgrade. Zoran Tosic replaces Bibras Natcho.
Posted at 59'
Corner, Manchester United. Conceded by Vladimir Stojkovic.
Posted at 59'
Attempt saved. Fred (Manchester United) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Posted at 58'
Strahinja Pavlovic (Partizan Belgrade) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Posted at 58'
Mason Greenwood (Manchester United) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 58'
Foul by Strahinja Pavlovic (Partizan Belgrade).
Posted at 56'
Foul by Scott McTominay (Manchester United).
Posted at 56'
Umar Sadiq (Partizan Belgrade) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 55'
Foul by Anthony Martial (Manchester United).
Posted at 55'
Slobodan Urosevic (Partizan Belgrade) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 55'
Harry Maguire (Manchester United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 55'
Foul by Umar Sadiq (Partizan Belgrade).
Posted at 53'
Foul by Marcos Rojo (Manchester United).
Posted at 53'
Umar Sadiq (Partizan Belgrade) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Show more updatesgoal
