
# Stoke make approach for Michael O'Neill in search for next manager

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:11:21+00:00**

Author: **David Anderson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-anderson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/stoke-make-approach-michael-oneill-20832019)

Stoke have made an approach to Northern Ireland for boss Michael O’Neill.
Stoke have identified O’Neill as the man to succeed Nathan Jones at the bet365 Stadium and keep the struggling Potters in the Championship.
O’Neill has a £750,000 buy-out clause in his contract and the Irish FA would not stand in his way if he wanted to leave.
The IFA said in a statement: “The Irish Football Association has been approached by EFL Championship club Stoke City who are seeking permission to speak to Michael O’Neill about their vacant manager’s position.”
O’Neill has made no secret of his interest in eventually moving back into club management after his successful time in charge of League of Ireland side Shamrock Rovers, but says it must be the right job.
 
He is wary of joining a club side only to be sacked within months and he virtually has a job for life with Northern Ireland because of his success during his eight years in charge.
“This has been a constant thing particularly around international weeks because typically that’s when clubs look to change their manager,” O’Neill said in response to Stoke’s interest.
“I’ve always said that when I do step away from international management it’s important the club has good ownership and good people to work for so that’s the priority in any thinking I’ll have.
“It’s always flattering. It’s better to be linked than not linked, let’s be honest. That applies to any job. It’s not a distraction for me. It’s been something that has been ongoing over a couple of years.
“The focus is on preparing for next week’s qualifiers. If and when a situation arises you look at that scenario at that point in time, but at this minute my focus is on the two games that lie ahead.”
