
# Bitcoin Price Analyst: ‘Second Phase’ of Bull Market Triggers at $14K

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:35:00+00:00**

Author: **William Suberg**

Original: [Cointelegraph](https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitcoin-price-analyst-second-phase-of-bull-market-triggers-at-14k)

Bitcoin (BTC) was trending higher on Nov. 4 as sideways behavior gave way to more purposeful upward momentum across markets.

        Cryptocurrency market daily overview. Source: Coin360
      
Data from Coin360 reveals BTC/USD tackling $9,300 on Monday, rising to a 24-hour high of $9,310 on exchanges after dipping as low as $9,080.
The latest action continues the weekly trend for Bitcoin, which has seen the largest cryptocurrency range between just under $9,000 and just over $9,500. Those levels effectively formed support and resistance, respectively. 

        Bitcoin seven-day price chart. Source: Coin360
      
Now, analysts are turning their attention to the required conditions for a more purposeful breakout — either up or down. 
According to statistician Willy Woo, the coming few months for Bitcoin will first see a dip to $8,600, filling in a gap in futures markets.
Thereafter, bullish action should begin to surface. Bitcoin needs a monthly close above $14,000 in order to then secure a longer-term bull market.
“Once we get a monthly close above $14k, we'll be in the second phase of the bull market; a steady, lowish volatility, run in price. Should happen by the start of 2020, that's the best time to deploy capital,” he summarized in a series of tweets on Monday.
As Cointelegraph reported, Woo is not alone in forecasting a short-term slide for BTC/USD. Last week, regular contributor filbfilb also eyed the potential for the pair to revisit the $8,000 bracket.
In an update on his dedicated Telegram trading channel on Sunday, he continued the narrative:
Altcoins meanwhile took the chance to deliver moderate gains in line with Bitcoin’s slight uptick. 
Out of the top twenty cryptocurrencies by market cap, many rose by up to 4% on the day, with only Bitcoin SV (BSV) seeing losses of 1.6%.
Ether (ETH), the largest altcoin, saw gains of 1.7% to trade $184. Both NEO (NEO) and Litecoin (LTC) performed strongly, with 4.5% advances.

        Ether seven-day price chart. Source: Coin360
      
The overall cryptocurrency market cap was $247 billion at press time, with Bitcoin’s share at 67.3%.
Keep track of top crypto markets in real time here
