
# Rangers' startling 12 month transformation and the Celtic blueprint Hearts can use to stop them - Scott McDermott

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:58:20+00:00**

Author: **Scott McDermott, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/scott-mcdermott/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/rangers-startling-12-month-transformation-20801136)

Cup defeats were the only blots on Steven Gerrard ’s copybook in his first year as Rangers boss.
And the Betfred Cup semi-final loss to Aberdeen at Hampden was a particular low point.
But Gerrard has every right to feel a lot more confident going into Sunday’s last-four tie with Hearts .
Ovie Ejaria, Joe Worrall, Lassana Coulibaly and Umar Sadiq all featured against Dons.
The men who will start instead of them against Jambos are all significant upgrades.
Sweden star Filip Helander has slotted in at the back while in the middle Gerrard will start Steven Davis and Ryan Jack – with either Glen Kamara or Joe Aribo beside them.
Up front he has Alfredo Morelos fit and firing – and side-kick Jermain Defoe ready and waiting should he need him.
This is a different Rangers team to the one that failed at Hampden last year and suffered the club’s fifth straight semi-final defeat.
But now they must deliver. If Gerrard’s team fly out the traps, use the big pitch to their advantage and get an early lead against managerless Hearts they’ll be too strong.
Interim Jambos gaffer Austin MacPhee has to come up with a plan to stop Rangers playing.
He has to get busy players around Davis and Jack to prevent that pair from dictating the tempo of the game.
In the Scottish Cup Final against Celtic , Hearts surprised the champions by how much they pressed them.
They didn’t allow Neil Lennon’s men to settle into a rhythm and it disrupted them.
 
They’ll need a similar type of display today and will try to exploit any signs of weakness in Gers’ line-up.
They got their goal against them in the recent league game by putting James Tavernier under pressure defensively.
It wouldn’t surprise me to see fit-again Jamie Walker – or even Steven Naismith if he makes it – deployed on that side to get at the full-back and stop the Ibrox skipper from marauding forward.
It should be a fascinating contest, with Craig Levein’s sacking adding another layer to it now.
It’s a huge challenge of MacPhee’s coaching ability.
But for Gerrard and Rangers, the stakes are even higher.
Making a final would mean clearing a huge psychological barrier for his players.
And the fact that they are in far better shape than a year ago should see them achieve it.
