
# Jurgen Klopp responds to Liverpool Invincibles question after last-gasp win

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:09:06+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopp-responds-liverpool-invincibles-20800690)

Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp played down talk of his side matching Arsenal's famous Invincibles after more late heroics against Aston Villa.
The Reds looked set to suffer their first defeat since January before a remarkable late turnaround saw them snatch a 2-1 win.
It means they remain unbeaten in the Premier League this season, surviving a number of scares to lead to some claims they could emulate Arsenal's remarkable achievement from the 2003/04 season.
The idea of getting through the entire 38-game season unbeaten was put to Klopp after their late Villa Park show - but the German boss shut down the question quickly.
Klopp told Sky Sports : "It is not possible if you play like we did until we conceded the goal.
“It was not bad, it was actually the opposite, it was good football, but it was not the winning mentality we need.
"It is probably not possible, but we don't think about it to be honest.
“We think about how we can win the next game and the next game."
With no focus on an unbeaten season, instead looking for their first ever Premier League crown, Klopp has called on his side to learn from their mistakes and continue to improve.
He added: "We still have to learn and improve and sometimes you have to get knocks and we got knocks.
“For little mistakes we got knocks but in the moment we could sort it.
"It's not that we didn't deserve to win, I'm fine with the performance but there were moments I didn't like.
"We made it difficult for ourselves.
“We started playing football well but not exactly how we should have.
"Aston Villa were ready for a proper fight and a proper battle.
“We conceded a goal and it's not so easy to change this wrong path immediately.
"When you watch the game one team deserved to win and it's us.
“I can imagine how bad Aston Villa will feel, with all they did they will have deserved something."
