
# Reese Witherspoon and Jennifer Aniston: 'A lot of guys think every woman wants to sleep with them'

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:00:52+00:00**

Author: **Hadley Freeman**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2019/nov/05/jennifer-aniston-a-lot-of-guys-are-narcissists-they-think-every-woman-wants-to-sleep-with-them)


        Witherspoon and Aniston are sharing a screen for the first time since Friends. They talk disturbing cover-ups and their decades-long fight against sexual harassment
      
“What a wonderful sweater!” gasps Reese Witherspoon, pointing at my old green jumper.
“Wait, I’m sorry, look at those cool shoes,” adds Jennifer Aniston, with a comedy emphasis that verges on Chandler Bing-esque, and all eyes turn to my muddy, five-year-old trainers.
“And the bag, oh my gosh,” Witherspoon continues appraising my outfit.
Neither of them mentions my trousers, so I make a mental note to burn them when I get home.
The three of us are meeting in a central London hotel and although outside it is dark and rainy, the two of them, in little black dresses and black high heels, are as golden and glossy as a pair of show ponies on a summer’s day. I, on the other hand, have rain-soaked hair and at least one surplus stone in post-partum weight. But Aniston and Witherspoon will not be swayed from their lovebombing (“I love the Guardian!” – Witherspoon).
It is a supremely girly way of easing into an interview, engaging in the female lingua franca of insistently complimenting another woman. If it weren’t for the fact there are three PRs in the room with us – one next to Aniston, two next to Witherspoon – I could almost believe that we were just three gals, hanging out for giggles on a Friday afternoon.
The actual reason we are hanging out today is to discuss Aniston and Witherspoon’s extremely shiny new television series, The Morning Show, in which they both star, and produce – it’s very much the showpiece of the new streaming service, Apple TV+. It is the first time the women have worked together since playing sisters on Friends, and, as all the press releases excitedly emphasise, it is the first TV show Aniston has committed to since the sitcom that made her a star. The two women have stayed friends since playing Rachel and Jill Greene – “Jen throws an amazing Christmas party!” “I do love entertaining!” “And you’re so good at it, you need to teach me!” – and stress keenly that they are hands on “from top to bottom, from script, to casting, to the tone” of The Morning Show.
