
# Finding solutions rather than problems is music to Jason Arthur's ears

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/business/2019/11/05/news/finding-solutions-rather-than-problems-is-music-to-jason-s-ears-1753488/)

In the spotlight this week is Jason Arthur, director at architect and engineering firm ARCEN
What was your first job?
I started as a hatchery operative in Moy Park. It instilled in me an early work ethic and demonstrated the importance of working as part of a team within a process driven environment.
What qualifications do you have?
A BSc and BArch Degree in Architecture and I’m a member of the Royal Institute of British Architects and Royal Society of Ulster Architects.
What do you attribute your success to?
I consider myself to be a very self-aware person with a drive to exceed expectations, self-imposed or otherwise. I am always looking for solutions rather than problems and like to work with people in a cooperative and collaborative manner.
How would you describe yourself to someone who’d never met you?
A positive and personable team player, committed to working in a cooperative, responsive way.
Who do you look up to in business?
Throughout my career I have been exposed to a number of professional colleagues and clients, all of whom have had a positive influence and provided valuable lessons in business.
How do you get the best out of people who work for you?
The critical thing to remember within our industry is the high level of collaboration involved to produce high quality solutions. It is important that people are empowered and given responsibility and ownership but also to provide support as required. Giving people credit for their hard work and achievements is key in motivating them, boosting confidence and driving performance.
If you could change one thing about doing business in Northern Ireland, what would it be?
I believe Northern Ireland is a great place to do business with a close network of opportunities. The difficult thing is the uncertainty surrounding Brexit and, of course, the lack of activity at Stormont.
What website or app could you not do without?
I tend to keep an eye on BBC News and Sport and more recently Instagram and LinkedIn. They offer me a great opportunity to post project progress updates and engage with other architects.
What was the last book you read?
The last book I read was O’Donnell & Tuomey’s selected work. It offers some brilliant design inspiration.
What car do you drive?
An Audi Q5
Tell us something interesting about yourself?
I played drums in a band as a student and we were featured on Radio 1’s Steve Lamacq show as a top unsigned UK band.
What’s your greatest passion outside work and family?
This leads on from my previous answer and is definitely music. I find it helps clear my mind and promotes creative thinking. As a family, we have music playing every morning before everyone makes their way to school and work.
