
# 5 things to know for Wednesday, November 6, 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:20:00+00:00**

Author: **CTVNews.ca , Staff**

Original: [www.ctvnews.ca](https://www.ctvnews.ca/5things/5-things-to-know-for-wednesday-november-6-2019-1.4672235)

China has ended a ban on Canadian pork and beef products, giving relief to ranchers and reopening access to a crucial market. Here's what else you need to know to start your day.
1. China imports: China has agreed to allow Canadian meat products into the country, ending a five-month suspension after officials in the People's Republic said some beef and pork had tested positive for a banned additive.
2. Impeachment hearing: Reversing his previous testimony, U.S. diplomat Gordon Sondland has acknowledged what Democrats say was a quid pro quo, pushed by U.S. President Donald Trump and his personal lawyer with Ukraine.
3. Canadians abroad: Global Affairs has confirmed that a family of four from the Edmonton area are dead after a car crash in South Africa while on a missionary trip.
4. Winnipeg violence: Police in Winnipeg are investigating a 40th homicide -- one short of the city's most homicides recorded in a year -- and now, the mayor is asking the federal and provincial governments for help.
5. Tap water: While homeowners concerned about lead in their drinking water should check with their local authorities for more information, CTVNews.ca has compiled a guide on steps that can be taken to help reduce or eliminate exposure.

        One more thing…
      
PTSD symptoms: New research out of British Columbia has found that cannabis use could be helping Canadians cope with some of the effects of post-traumatic stress disorder.
