
# Huawei FreeBuds 3 - first Bluetooth 5.1 wireless headset commence pre-sale - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:00:14+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/03/huawei-freebuds-3-first-bluetooth-5-1-wireless-headset-commence-pre-sale/)

Huawei FreeBuds 3 – first Bluetooth 5.1 wireless headset commence pre-sale2.7 (53.33%) 9 votes
At the Huawei Mate 30 series launch event in China, the company also announced the Huawei FreeBuds 3 true wireless Bluetooth headset. This headset has a 1199 yuan ($170) launch price. However, the pre-sale of this device is now active and there is a 100 yuan ($14) discount for those that participate. Buyers can deposit up to 160 yuan ($23) to get the discount.
Huawei FreeBuds 3 true wireless headset uses a Kirin A1 chip. It supports voice calls, noise reduction and it is also the world’s first true Bluetooth 5.1 wireless headset. According to reports, the Kirin A1 chip allows FreeBuds 3 performance indicators to be 30% higher than Apple’s AirPods. It reduces the power consumption by 50%, and its package size is 95% of AirPods H1 wireless chip. The Kirin A1 brings a new Bluetooth protocol: BT-UHD. If FreeBuds 3 is used with a new Huawei phone running EMUI 10.0 or higher, both devices can connect using this new standard. With this connection, the data transfer rate is up to 2.3 Mbps. For reference, the LDAC codec “only” provides 990 kbps.
In addition to its support for active noise reduction, its design effectively eliminates ambient noise. The FreeBuds 3 features a semi-open dolphins bionic design for comfortable and secure wear. Other Freebuds 3 features include an improved 190ms delay, lower than AirPods, and Qi wireless charging. The wired charging is 100% faster than AirPods, and wireless charging is 50% faster than AirPods. Each headset has a 30mAh battery that provides 4 hours of playback on a single charge, while the charging box provides approximately 20 hours of total playback time. It is said that the headset and case charge time is only one hour. Huawei FreeBuds 3 will provide carbon black and ceramic white.

        Source
      
