
# Heung-Min Son was left shocked and inconsolable, admits Dele Alli

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:10:15+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/04/heung-min-son-was-left-shocked-and-inconsolable-admits-dele-alli?utm_medium=rss)


        Tottenham’s Dele Alli admitted that Heung-Min Son was devasted after Andre Gomes suffered a serious ankle injury due to Son’s late challenge in the second half of the draw between Everton and Spurs. Alli scored for Tottenham giving them the lead but admitted it was hard to see Gomes in such pain.
      
The match between Everton and Tottenham Hotspur ended with fear and a sense of shock after Toffees midfielder Andre Gomes suffered a horrific injury. The Portuguese landed terribly after his right ankle went one way and his right leg twisted the other following a challenge by Son that saw the Spurs player get sent off.
The ankle was left in such an unnatural angle and at fully 90 degrees to Gomes’ leg. The match ended in 1-1 draw as Dele Alli took the lead for the Spurs but the Merseyside club equalised late in the stoppage time. The 23-year-old midfielder went onto admit that Son was inconsolable and devastated after what his challenge to Gomes had done, as reported by the Telegraph.
“He can’t even pick his head up. It’s sad to see. Didn’t want to look too much at what happened. I want to send best wishes [to Andre Gomes]. Son is devastated and in tears. It’s not his fault. Son is one of nicest people you’ve ever met. He can’t even lift his head up, he’s crying so much. The injury does play on your mind but you have to stay professional. We switched off for a second and they scored,” said Alli to the Sky Sports.
Several questions have been raised on Alli’s form in the past few weeks and the Englishman silenced his doubters with a brilliant goal. Pundits Garry Neville and Roy Keane also bashed Alli recently claiming that he has “lost his hunger”. Alli has struggled to make an impact on the pitch so far this season, along with most of his Tottenham teammates who are underperforming under Mauricio Pochettino but the goal against the Toffees will help to boost his confidence.
“I don’t look too much into what other people say. When certain people say something, it really hurts, when other people say things it’s in one ear and out of the other. But coming from League One to the Premier League, you have to have a strong mentality and I’ll keep showing that. I didn’t have a great season last season, I had injuries, but I’ll put that behind me. I didn’t play well against Liverpool but in other games I have. I don’t want to get back to where I was, I want to surpass that. Some people say things not to help, just to say it for the sake of it. My manager, team-mates and family, I’ll keep listening to them,” said the former MK Dons player.
