
# Harry Potter's childhood home available to rent on Airbnb

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:25:15+00:00**

Author: **Chelsea Ritschel**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/harry-potter-godrics-hollow-rent-airbnb-home-lily-james-a9184611.html)

If you used to fantasise about living among wizardkind and one day receiving your Hogwarts acceptance letter, you can now live out your dream in Harry Potter’s childhood home. 
While it doesn’t promise a run-in with He Who Must Not Be Named, Muggles can now rent the cottage where Lily and James Potter lived with their son before they were murdered.  
The home, which is available to rent on Airbnb, is not actually located in Godric’s Hollow, but rather the village of Lavenham in the English county of Suffolk.
And although it is not really where the Potters lost their lives protecting their only son, the De Vere House is famous in its own right - as it used to be a former Five Star and Gold Award bed and breakfast. 
The listing itself is for just two guests, who will stay in a private one-bedroom room with a shared bathroom, a private sitting room and a courtyard garden for £110 ($142) per night. 
According to the Airbnb listing, Lavenham is “reputedly Britain’s finest mediaeval village” and features more than 300 protected heritage properties. 
However, the town also boasts all the amenities one could want, including an art gallery, restaurants, a mediaeval church, craft and antique shops, museums, and tennis courts. 
Despite not being the birthplace of both Harry Potter and Albus Dumbledore, the house has received five-star reviews from its previous guests. 
It is also in high-demand, according to Airbnb, which states that 825 users have checked out the listing over the last week. 
But, if Hagrid’s Hut is more your taste, you can also spend the night in a holiday home inspired by the Hogwarts gamekeeper’s house. 
