
# Lake Macquarie Memorial Park to host Remembrance Day ceremony at Ryhope on November 11

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Star](https://www.newcastlestar.com.au/story/6473702/ensuring-their-memory-and-the-gratitude-for-their-service-lives-on/)

AUSTRALIAN members of the armed services who served and perished in wars, conflicts and peacekeeping operations will be remembered in a ceremony at Ryope on Monday.
Lake Macquarie Memorial Park will host a dedicated Remembrance Day ceremony from 5.30pm.
"This event is part of a global day of reverence for the heroic people who have lost their lives for their country, including the brave Anzacs," the park's family service manager Garry Bellenger said.
"We are humbled to provide this opportunity to pay respects to our soldiers and continue their legacy. It's an important occasion to ensure their memory and the gratitude for their service lives on, in this generation and the next."
Remembrance Day evolved from Armistice Day, and traditionally features a moment of silence at 11am. It is observed each year on November 11 to mark the official end to hostilities in World War I in 1918.
"Remembrance Day is more than a memorial. It's also a celebration of our beautiful and distinguished nation, which is sustained by the men and women who bravely serve this country," Mr Bellenger said.
The event at Ryhope will include laying of tributes by community members and local leaders, a speech by Toronto RSL Sub-branch president Ron Mitcherson, refreshments, and a performance by the female musical duo Librans.
Lake Macquarie Memorial Park encourages all locals, and particularly veterans' groups, historical, RSL and ex-service organisations, schools, and families and friends of deceased veterans, to attend.
Visit lakemacquariecrem.com.au
