
# The Five Biggest Trends In Fintech For 2020

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Lazarow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/alexlazarow/2019/11/04/my-five-learnings-from-this-years-money2020-what-are-yours/)

The passing of the years is marked by changes in season. In fintech, seasons are marked by conferences, and the figurative New Years is Money20/20, which takes place in Las Vegas every October.
On the heels of last week’s conference, I want to share five reflections regarding some of the emergent trends shaping fintech today.

        1.    The steady march of rebundling continues
      
The early years of fintech brought a proliferation of single product startups. Companies like Transferwise (remittances), Stripe and Venmo (Payments), Prosper and Lending Club (lending), and Betterment and Wealthfront (investing) scaled rapidly. By the time the first fintech wave crested, the sector had effectively unbundled the bank. These products are, in and of themselves, customer friendly. However, in aggregate, they left consumers facing a tangle of separate fintech options.
Over the last few years, fintech has rebundled disparate consumer innovations in a consumer centric manner. Most notably, neobanks like Chime and others are centering the financial services experience around the customer bank account. At Money20/20, I witnessed the acceleration of this trend first hand. Credit players are launching savings accounts. Savings companies are vamping up their forays into credit. Insurers are bundling their products into other offerings.
We are still in the early innings. There are only few highly successful examples of fintech cross-selling. I expect the next few years to see this trend continue.

        2.    Financial health is front and center, and verticalized
      
When I started investing in fintech seven years ago, the conversation centered around inclusion – offering customers affordable options where they previously didn’t have them. The space has now moved towards prioritizing financial health, which encompasses a more holistic view of the customer experience.
This year saw active discussions about financial health innovation across geographies, product types, and long-term outlook.
Financial health is becoming more vertically focused. This trend includes companies that target specific demographics (e.g. seniors or kids), job categories (e.g. gig economy) and industries (e.g. dental practices). As fintech innovation accelerates, innovators will continue to focus on solutions that take unique needs into account in a comprehensive way that bridges beyond single products or solutions.

        3.    Fintech’s global story is undeniably recognized.
      
Fintech conferences in the U.S. tend to have a myopic, domestic perspective that ignores some of the incredible advances around the world. Thankfully, this year’s Money20/20 saw discussion about and representation from pioneers across Latin America, Africa and India.
There’s good reason. It is hard to ignore what’s happening abroad.
Some of the largest fintechs in the world are global, including neobanks (Nubank, based in Brazil), mobile banking (M-Pesa in Kenya) and QR payments (Ant, based in China). We will only see an acceleration in this global trend . Last year, fintech funding doubled to $100 billion. While the Americas rose to $54b from $30b, other regions’ growth eclipsed the US when considered proportionally. Asia Pacific, for instance, doubled to reach $23b (up from $12), and Europe nearly tripped, reaching $34b (up from $12b).
Fintech innovation abroad is also inspiring new models domestically. I call this the innovation supply chain: solutions to many of the world’s biggest challenges are increasingly coming from everywhere, and being improved as ideas evolve around the world. Fintech is a global story, and increasingly so.

        4.    Security is key
      
Cyber threats are on the rise. Last year, 61% of U.S. firms faced a cyber attack (up from 41% the year prior). Losses expanded from $229k to $369k as well.
This will only increase. Last month, the first successful example of quantum supremacy (when quantum computing can perform calculations radically faster than traditional machines) hit the news. At scale, quantum computing risks upending modern cryptographic security. This represents an important security threat, but is only one of many changes in the landscape.
It is no surprise that security is becoming an increasing theme in fintech, and was one of the most discussed topics at Money20/20 this year. Security discussions delved into a range of topics, including the changing nature of threats, the rise of biometrics, the creation and increased role of security executives within financial services institutions, and the new categories of security innovation.

        5.    Horizontalization of fintech
      
Fintech used to be a vertical, independent to itself: there was innovation in healthcare, education, transportation… and fintech. No longer. Fintech innovation increasingly cuts across industries. Fintechs are allowing non-financial firms to offer financial products (e.g. Amazon and Shopify offering lending to their merchants), and by embedding the solution, they permeate across industries (e.g. income sharing agreements bundled with tuition).
That’s why it was no surprise to see a greater contingent of executives spanning a range of industries and sectors at the conference.
To accelerate this trend, there was considerable discussion on new types of infrastructure, including ‘banking-as-a-service’, where firms provide the full tool-set required to enable others to offer their own personalized financial products and services.

        Money20/30
      
Money20/20 is a misleading name. It does not refer to this year (fiscal year 2020)— it was actually founded nearly a decade ago in 2011. The aspirational date of 2020 signified an ambition of change and impact.
In many ways, fintech delivered. The sector has exploded. There are over five thousand fintech startups in the U.S. alone. Over a billion people were financially included in the last decade.
Yet, as this post alludes to, we are still in the early days. The next fifteen years will surely witness as much change, if not more.
What were your biggest take-aways? What do you think Money 2030 will bring us?
 
