
# The Best Items To Help You Meditate At Home

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jordi Lippe-McGraw**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jordilippemcgraw/2019/11/03/the-best-items-to-help-you-meditate-at-home/)

Meditating can be very easy and quite hard.
As Ellie Burrows, cofounder and CEO of MNDFL Meditation, explains, “You don't need much to build an at-home practice other than a comfortable place to sit like a chair or couch, your breath and access to quality meditation content.” But Mark Krassner, founder of Expectful meditation app, believes it can also be helpful to create a space for a great meditation practice.
So how do you make a zen nook in your home? Try some of these products:
Eckhart Tolle narrates you through a guide to spiritual enlightenment. Find a comfortable spot, pop in some headphones and tune into the audiobook version of the bestseller to help change your mindset. The language is simple, but the process can be transformational.  

        SHOP NOW
      
Written by professor Richard Alpert—who later took the Ram Dass—in 1961, the classic book helps you learn how to implement a yogic regimen in any space. It’s a helpful tool to learn what to do in your meditation nook.

        SHOP NOW
      
The right oil can help get your body into meditation mode. The Divine Me oil from Aba Love Apothecary is a blend of essential oils that are meant to be applied to pulse points, the Third Eye and the Heart Center. Then you inhale deeply to reduce anxiety and stress. This is a great step to take before the start of a meditation.

        SHOP NOW
      
It’s important to be comfortable when meditating; otherwise, your attention will shift away from the practice. The fix? A comfortable cushion. Samaya makes a great one that promises you’ll be comfy for moments or hours as it provides the correct support in the right places. There’s also a hint of lavender to promote even more relaxation.

        SHOP NOW
      
This unique product is a natural skin moisturizer and is ritual by itself. Made of five ingredients, the stone melts on contact with dry skin. You can use the stone before or after a meditation practice as a way to relax and unwind. Or it can be another meditative aspect of your day that can happen anywhere you shower.

        SHOP NOW
      
Palo Santo wood is common in meditation practices as it’s said to help deepen contemplation and spiritual moments in meditation. Peruvian shamans often use it, and you could burn it in your meditation space for a similar effect.

        SHOP NOW
      
If you want to keep your at-home meditation area technology free, use a classic sand timer. These beautiful hourglasses are great for tracking a five and 30-minute session. Plus, you won’t mind having it out even when you’re not meditating as the design is simple and elegant.

        SHOP NOW
      
Sometimes you need a little help de-stressing. That’s exactly what an eye pillow does. Capable of being hot or cold, the weighted pillow applies gentle pressure to the sinuses and eye area, which instantly helps to relieve any tension. Use the mask during a meditation to invoke that sense of calm.

        SHOP NOW
      
Sound can be incredibly important with meditation. The iHome Zenergy Meditative Light & Sound Therapy Candle has several relaxing noises to help you focus on the meditation. Plus, it also features a breathing coach with or without sound to get you in the zone. And the bonus soft light feature only helps to enhance the meditative mood.

        SHOP NOW
      
