
# Rugby World Cup awards: the best player, the best match – our verdicts

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:41:43+00:00**

Author: **Guardian sport**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/04/rugby-world-cup-2019-best-player-best-match-our-verdicts)


        From Japan’s Michael Leitch and England’s win over the All Blacks to TJ Perenara’s try of the tournament, the Guardian’s rugby experts hand out their awards
      
Robert Kitson Michael Leitch. Japan’s all-court rugby was among the tournament’s high spots and their captain was never far from the action. Semi Radradra might have pipped him had Fiji made the last eight.
Andy Bull Siya Kolisi. Wasn’t the best player in the tournament, isn’t even the best player in his team but what he achieved, as a captain, and a man, is bigger than that.
Gerard Meagher Semi Radradra. He would walk into any side at the tournament and it baffles that the Fiji wing was not shortlisted for the world player of the year award. His effort against Wales goes down as one of the finest individual performances in recent memory.
Paul Rees Siya Kolisi. Perhaps not the outstanding player but the embodiment of a tournament played in a country where self is consumed into the whole.
Claire Tolley Alun Wyn Jones, Wales. Totemic, every time he took to the pitch.
RK Tom Curry. Hard to believe he is only 21. On this evidence he will be part of England’s back row for years.
AB Tom Curry. Yes, we already knew about him because of the way he’s played in the past 12 months but over the course of the World Cup he stepped up several levels again.
GM Sam Underhill. A force of nature and only 23. Made the world take notice with his remarkable tackling. Always engaging off the field, too. There are a few contenders but he is captain material.
PR Jordan Petaia. A shaft of light piercing Australia’s gloom.
CT Tagir Gadzhiev. Lived up to the nickname given him by coach Lyn Jones – Tagir the Tiger. Think what the Russia flanker could do if he was fully professional.
RK England’s performance against New Zealand eclipsed all else but Japan v Scotland was the game of the tournament. With everything at stake, Japan’s first-half display was a joy.
AB Japan v Scotland, the day after Typhoon Hagibis blew through. Both teams were playing for a place in the knockout rounds but Japan for something much more precious and inspiring.
GM England’s victory over New Zealand was the best performance but it has to be Japan v Scotland. Japan were playing rugby from another planet for half an hour, then Scotland turned up and almost reeled them in. After all that had gone before, it was all the more remarkable.
PR Japan v Ireland. The tournament’s liftoff moment.
CT Japan v Scotland – not just the result but the 20 minutes or so when Japan were unplayable. Inspirational.
RK Plenty to choose from but South Africa’s two tries in the final will stick in the memory. The unselfish interplay between Makazole Mapimpi and Lukhanyo Am followed by Cheslin Kolbe’s glorious footwork showed the Springboks were not entirely one dimensional.
AB Keita Inagaki v Scotland. There were more spectacular solo scores but this was an irresistible team effort by Japan. Four players, three offloads, seven beaten tacklers, finished off by a prop.
GM TJ Perenara v Namibia. A mind-boggling finish after a delightful buildup. It was the kind of try that explains why New Zealand are so often lauded for doing things other teams cannot. Australia’s Marika Koroibete scored a couple of gems, too.
PR TJ Perenara v Namibia. Two words: Wow and how?
CT TJ Perenara v Namibia. Two decent attempted tackles, his entire body out of play in the air, except the arm to put it down … and that was just the finish.
RK Japan beating Ireland lit up the tournament. The hosts were wonderful on and off the field.
AB The crowd of a thousand school children in the little town of Kamaishi, merrily belting out the anthems of Fiji and Uruguay before the one and only game played in the Kamaishi Recovery Memorial Stadium.
GM Siya Kolisi lifting the cup. Such a powerful image that will give hope to millions. Kolisi’s story has been well-documented but that doesn’t make it any less inspiring.
PR Canada and Namibia players mucking in to help residents clear up in Kamaishi after Typhoon Hagibis forced the postponement of their crunch match.
CT Uruguay’s captain Juan Manuel Gaminara’s TV interview after their narrow victory over Fiji.
RK Ireland. This should have been the year they finally shone at a World Cup. For whatever reason it never happened.
AB The embarrassing carry-on between the unions on the weekend of the typhoon when they were all squabbling about boardroom politics while Japan was dealing with a disaster that killed 80 people.
GM Hard to look past England’s performance in the final. Ireland were uninspiring throughout and the furore surrounding high tackles and how referees were policing them early in the tournament was sadly inevitable.
PR Three cancellations and the Scottish union making its petulance public.
CT The fact the understandable cancellation of Italy v New Zealand meant one of the greatest players in history, Sergio Parisse, did not get to say goodbye to the Italy jersey
RK The wonderful world of Japanese restaurant menus. I never knew uterus, intestine and rectum were so, er, big in Japan. My colleague accidentally ordering a bright green cappuccino was another highlight.
AB A chance encounter with the local rugby team in Kamaishi. We couldn’t speak each other’s language but they made it very clear no one was leaving the bar until the batteries had gone on the karaoke machine.
GM Watching Japan beat Ireland in a tiny bar in Kobe where the staff were bonkers and the locals were utterly bemused by what was taking place. You had to be there ...
PR Rassie Erasmus’s incredulous look when asked if he was a bluffer having revealed South Africa’s team and tactics for the final two days early.
CT South Africa’s insta-perfect post-final photoshoot. Incidentally, Faf de Klerk wasn’t the only one wearing national flag “speedos’ – it looked to be a 23-strong bulk order of “lucky pants”.
RK Either a reserve day or an alternative stadium in the event of pool games being postponed. Had the Japan v Scotland decider been scrapped it would have been a travesty.
AB For all World Rugby’s talk about how they were caught short by an unseasonal typhoon, they never mentioned the underlying cause of the freakish weather. Just like the rest of us, the game needs to address the climate crisis.
GM Get rid of the third-place play-off.
PR In an era of extreme climate instances, a gap between the end of the pool stage and the knockout rounds to cater for postponements.
CT No big rule interpretation revisions a few months before the tournament, it hits the smaller nations harder.
