
# South Korean helicopter crashes into sea off disputed islets, seven missing

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:11:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asia/south-korean-helicopter-crash-dokdo-takeshima-islets-12053544)

SEOUL: Rescue services were searching for seven missing passengers of a South Korean fire department helicopter that crashed into the sea off the disputed islets of Dokdo on late Thursday (Oct 31), officials said on Friday.
The Airbus Helicopters H225 aircraft had just picked an injured fisherman up from Dokdo, which is known as Takeshima in Japan, when it went down.
The seven people on board were five rescuers, the fisherman and a civilian.
"The patient was on a fishing boat when he lost one of his fingers through an accident, and the crew took him to Dokdo and waited for the rescue helicopter there," officials at Gyeongbuk Fire Service Headquarters said.
"The patient needed an immediate medical operation that could have only been done at facilities on the mainland."
South Korea's Defense Ministry said it has sent vessels, planes and divers to help scour the ocean for any sign of the seven passengers who were on board the plane.
The helicopter was found in 70m of water on Friday afternoon, a coast guard official told a media briefing earlier.
Rescue officials were trying to secure the blackbox and voice recorder to find out what went wrong, the official said.
South Korea's President Moon Jae-in said he had ordered safety checks for other H225 in service in the country.​​​​​​​
The islets are claimed by both South Korea and Japan as their territory. They are controlled by Seoul with a small band of coast guards.
The crashed helicopter entered service with the fire department in 2016 and Airbus had checked its automatic rotation axis between September and October this year, Yonhap said, citing South Korean rescue official Seong Ho-seon.
The H225 model, previously known as a Eurocopter EC-225, is a long-range and all-weather search and rescue aircraft.
France-based Airbus Helicopters, a unit of Airbus SE and the world's largest commercial helicopter maker, could not immediately be reached for comment.
