
# Friends of tragic teen mum stunned by death of 'kind, caring' pal who was 'always laughing'

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Lynn Love, Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/friends-tragic-teen-mum-stunned-20826074)

Heartbroken friends of a young Clydebank mum have set up a fundraiser to help pay for her funeral after she died suddenly.
Denai McDougall, 19, passed away on October 25 leaving behind her two-year-old son Kalvin.
Her grieving friends have launched a GoFundMe page to support the mum-of-one's family.
 
One of the fundraising organisers is Taylor McGee, who had been friends with Denai since their primary school days.
Taylor told the Record of how Denai's death has rocked those left behind.
She said: "We’re all trying to be strong but there’s definitely been a lot of tears.
"We feel Denai’s death has brought us all together again as a group and together we all want to do our part to make sure she is remembered in the best way possible.
"It’s come as a shock to us and still hasn’t quite sunk in that we won’t see our best friend again."
Taylor said her friend was 'an amazing mum'.
She added: "She would light up every room she went into.
"She was a kind, caring person who was always laughing.
"As soon as her son, Kalvin came into her life he was instantly her priority.
"He meant the world to her and brought her so much happiness.
"Denai was an amazing mum.
"She always put Kalvin first and he absolutely adored her."
 
Taylor organised the online fundraiser alongside Andrea Murphy, Shannon Maitland, Megan Hollywood, Paige Wright, Amie McIntosh, Lauren Johnston, Shanna Menzies, and Kathleen Short who've all been showing their support.
So far over £800 has been raised.
On November 1 crowds gathered to show their support for Denai's loved ones at Dalmuir Park in Clydebank for a balloon release, fireworks and music.
A Facebook page, Remembering Denai McDougall, has been set up to allow people to pay their respects and keep followers up to fate with any future fundraising events.
Denai's devastated best friends, who've rallied together in the wake of her death, have paid tribute to their 'angel'.
Andrea Murphy told the Record: " If I could see this smile one last time, I’d never ask for anything again.""I’ll miss the smile she brought on all our faces,"  pal Shanna Menzies added. Megan Hollywood said: "There are no more tears left for me to cry, I would do anything to give you one last hug.""We will all do our best to make your gorgeous boys life happy and full of love," Paige Wright added. "My heart has broken into a million pieces, we will meet again my angel,"  Lauren Johnston said. Shannon Maitland added: "I will always remember you as the happy bubbly one who put everyone’s feeling before your own.""You’re beautiful boy will always know how much he is loved and how amazing you are,"  Kathleen Short said.
And Emmie Gallacher added: "Sometimes you will never know the value of a moment until it becomes a memory."

        You can donate by visiting the GoFundMe page. 
      
