
# Chilling 'Doomsday map' shows how UK will be left underwater in 80 years' time

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:52:28+00:00**

Author: **Neil Murphy**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/chilling-doomsday-map-shows-how-20803818)

A chilling new map has revealed how parts of the UK will be left underwater in a matter of decades as climate change causes sea levels to rise.
Major areas such as Liverpool, London and Humberside could be left completely submerged as early as 2100, according to research from Climate Central.
Most scientists agree that climate change is melting polar ice sheets, adding significant amounts of water to the world's oceans.
A detailed new study has revealed how low-lying coastal areas across the world are now at risk of being completely flooded.
 
Vast swathes of Britain could be wiped out by the encroaching waters which are represented by a terrifying red block.
Cardiff, Swansea and north Wales, east Yorkshire and Hull, Peterborough and Norfolk, and the coast from Lancaster to Liverpool could be submerged in just 80 years time - unless urgent action is taken immediately.
Some 3.6 million people in Britain would face annual flooding and up to 5.4 million by 2100 if carbon emissions continue unchecked.
Coastal defences would need developing at great cost to protect householders from floods.
 
Climate Central found that if temperatures went up 4°C from pre-industrial levels the seas could rise by as much as 10.8 metres.
World leaders are currently trying to keep temperatures within 2°C which would keep the amount of people losing their homes to 130 million.
They believe that at least 500 million people globally would have their homes submerged if there is just a rise of 9 metres in the most likely scenario.
Amsterdam - the Dutch capital - would be almost completely consumed by the rising waters.
Dr Scott Kulp, a senior scientist at Climate Central and lead author of the study, says it is not too late to take action to prevent this 'doomsday' scenario.
Rapid emission cuts would save 50 million people worldwide from annual coastal flooding by 2100, the report suggests
Dr Kulp said: "These assessments show the potential of climate change to reshape cities, economies, coastlines, and entire global regions within our lifetimes.
“As the tideline rises higher than the ground people call home, nations will increasingly confront questions about whether, how much, and how long coastal defences can protect them.”
