
# TSU students offered analogue of capsule hotel for rest in university

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:36:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [РИА Томск](https://www.riatomsk.ru/article/20191104/tsu-students-offered-analogue-of-capsule-hotel-for-rest-in-university/)

TOMSK, Nov 4 – RIA Tomsk. A group of students of Tomsk State University (TSU) proposed to install capsules in Tomsk universities for rest between classes – closed boxes with wi-fi, blankets and pillows; currently the team of the project is looking for investors, student of the third year of TSU Alena Nadkov said RIA Tomsk.
Earlier, federal media reported that capsule hotels – sensory sound insulation cells located above each other appeared in some Russian airports in 2018. They are designed for rest of passengers, equipped with sockets, TVs, wi-fi and so on. The idea of the first such cell belongs to Japanese architect Kisho Kurokawa.
According to her, the idea was born during the game "Business immersion 2.0", which was held for students by the group of companies "Lama". Participants had to generate a business idea from scratch, refine or test it. More than 100 students participated in the project. The idea of capsules for rest of students was considered the best: the TSU team consisting of Dolzhkova, Polina Eliseenko, Sergey Kruglov received 50 thousand rubles.
"Our university was interested in our idea, so we are aimed at the implementation of the project. Now we prepare documents for participation in grant competitions, because the project requires large investments", – the interviewer of the agency summed up.
