
# Stocks This Week: Buy Automatic Data Processing And Sell Short TripAdvisor

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bill Sarubbi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/03/stocks-this-week-buy-automatic-data-processing-and-sell-short-tripadvisor/)

The market followed the cycles up to new highs last week. Both the NASDAQ and the S&P have broken out of ascending triangles to new highs, confirmed by a new high in the NYSE advance-decline line. The usual measuring formula is that price will run to a point equal to the height of the formation that has been broken out of, in this case 1000 points for the NASDAQ 100. This sets a target of 9000 (8000+1000). That is 12.5% over the last quote. This lofty target may not be reached but is does set up an excellent reward-risk ratio. The story is the same for the S&P. This move has occurred as we enter what has historically been a positive seasonal period. The Automatic Data Processing weekly cycle bottoms on the 5th. Four of five buy signals have been successful in the prior year. November has been the second strongest month in any year, up in 68% of the last 39 Novembers. The average price increase has been 2.6%. The stock is likely to rally to $170 or higher by December. The weekly chart shows higher momentum lows.
Chart 1
Chart 2
The weekly TripAdvisor cycle turns down now. The company reports on the 6th and the cycle suggests that this will be an earnings disappointment. There have been six sell signals in the last year and four been profitable. The likelihood of lower prices is enhanced by the condition of the stock. Chart 4 shows weak momentum and falling relative strength, harbingers of lower prices.
Chart 3
Chart 4
