
# Charlize Theron: Megyn Kelly ‘not a person who was easy’ t

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jessica Chasmar**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/4/charlize-theron-megyn-kelly-not-a-person-who-was-e/)

Actress Charlize Theron revealed Friday that it was challenging for her to play Megyn Kelly in the upcoming film “Bombshell,” saying the former Fox News star was not an easy person for her to embrace.
“This was not a person who was easy for me to wrap my arms around,” Ms. Theron said at a panel in Los Angeles following a screening of the film, CNN reported.
“Bombshell” follows the downfall of the late Fox News CEO Roger Ailes, who was accused of sexual harassment by multiple women, including Ms. Kelly, before he resigned in 2016. Ailes is played by John Lithgow in the film, which is set for a Dec. 13 release.
Ms. Theron said it took roughly two months for her to develop her character as Ms. Kelly.
“She’s tricky in the sense that there’s so much footage … there’s a lot you can see on Megyn Kelly, but it’s always in that lawyer-y and journalist format,” she said, CNN reported. “You kind of have to decipher what her emotional capacity is or how she would express her emotional experience because she doesn’t necessarily do it the way I naturally do it. It’s very, very different from how I function.”
Ms. Theron said that over time, she was able to look beyond the TV personality and recognize similarities between herself and Ms. Kelly.
“From afar it looks like we have nothing in common — obviously, I’m a liberal and a lot of these women have said things that have been deeply upsetting to me,” she said. “But at the same time, as a woman, understanding what each of them went through and understanding what Megyn was facing, especially in those two weeks where she didn’t step forward and she didn’t support Gretchen [Carlson], that’s when I emotionally tapped into her because I started to see similarities between us, dare I say that.
“I saw a woman with ambition, with drive and all of a sudden I realized, ‘S–, this is the kind of stuff that’s been weaponized against me. I relate to that,’” she said. “That’s when it became clear to me just how important this story was. Because if we can see the power of the message through someone who we may not agree with or somebody who might even anger us, that tells you there’s something real there.”

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
