
# Hopedale boy, 10, waiting for kidney, gets superhero welcome at school

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:03:00+00:00**

Author: **EndPlay**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/hopedale-boy-10-waiting-for-kidney-gets-superhero-welcome-at-school/1005012665?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

HOPEDALE, Mass. - After being diagnosed with kidney failure, a 10-year-old Hopedale boy and his family have been going through a difficult time. But on Monday, they were in for a super surprise.
Nicholas Corapi's entire school at Memorial Elementary banned together to give him a superhero's welcome.
Corapi walked in to school on Monday to find more than 600 students and teachers lining the hallways, cheering and giving him high-fives as he passed by on superhero day.
Corapi said it was "amazing" because "everyone was there."
He was only 1 year old when he had to have a kidney removed because it wasn't functioning. His other kidney was working, until recently.
Now, he needs a new kidney.
While doctors search for a donor, Corapi has been going to Boston Children's Hospital three times a week for dialysis.
"He misses a lot," said his mom Kim Corapi. "He misses a lot of school and activities and just childhood things. So, we're just waiting. Waiting for a kidney."
Despite what he's enduring, his family said they are amazed by his upbeat attitude.
"It's incredible. With everything he's had to go through. Even when he's sitting in dialysis, he's like I love it here, you know he's always positive."
His family also said that the support has been positively overwhelming.
"They're so wonderful here," Kim said. "It's like another family. They're very supportive and they love him probably just as much as we do."
Nicholas' father Joe Corapi created a GoFundMe page, which has raised more than $10,000 of its $20,000 goal. Nicholas also has a website.
