
# Unai Emery explains his reasons behind leaving Granit Xhaka out of Wolves clash

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mike Walters, https://www.facebook.com/Mike-Walters-Mirror**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/unai-emery-explains-reasons-behind-20790838)

Granit Xhaka has been spared the ordeal of facing another Emirates shooting gallery – because his head is still spinning from Arsenal fans' abuse.
Despite training as usual with the Gunners' first-team squad, Xhaka will miss Saturday's home game with Wolves to ride out the storm which engulfed him last weekend.
Manager Unai Emery confirmed his captain will absent, saying: “It is not in my mind that he is playing tomorrow.”
But £350,000-a-week enigma Mesut Ozil, handed his first trot for more than a month in the madcap Carabao Cup thriller at Liverpool in midweek, is in the matchday squad and could make only his second Premier League appearance of the season.
Xhaka, installed as captain after Emery's dressing room poll of his players, was never likely to feature against Wolves after telling his own fans to “f*** off” and sarcastically conducting their jeers in the 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace last weekend.
And by staying out of the firing line this weekend, Xhaka will not have to face his most voluble critics until the next home game with Southampton on November 23.
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, runner-up to Xhaka in Emery's bizarre vox pop, will captain the Gunners this afternoon.
But even by Arsenal's standards of self-flagellation, it has been a dispiriting week: After surrendering a two-goal lead twice, the skipper is now being hidden in Emery's cupboard under the stairs.
Xhaka's laboured apology on Thursday night, when he revealed abuse on social media had driven him to “boiling point,” has merely extended the soap opera.
And Emery still hasn't revealed whether Xhaka will remain in office as his captain when the furore has died down.
The Gunners boss said: “He is training normally, but like every human he feels emotions. Xhaka's issues last week need time to recover the normality with him and with us.
“Everybody will have some social media on their phone, on the internet, on the web, but really to use it is only to be intelligent.
“We can respect the people on social media, but we have to separate how much of it is real and whether every supporter is following that.
“In the stadium, is is normal when we are not winning that they respond with some criticism – and then, when you come back with a good performance, they forget that and they applaud the players.
“Our objective is to win (against Wolves), connect with the people and for the supporters to respond to us, and help us in the 90 minutes.
“Xhaka has said sorry, he gave apologies to the supporters, to everybody, and now the focus is on our next match.”
Ozil's return to the frame will give his cheerleaders fresh hope of Arsenal's playmaker being used as more than an expensive luxury by Emery, who said: “Now I am seeing him positive and consistent. His performance at Liverpool is the way we want.
“I an helping him, supporting him, demanding of him. This is the Mesut I think everyone wants.
“He has big experience, and when you talk about players who are ready to play under high pressure, he is one of them.
“When he is in that positive way, when he is available consistently, he has he respect from us and every supporter.”
