
# Brendan Rodgers praises Jamie Vardy as celebration hits back at Crystal Palace taunts

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:53:03+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/brendan-rodgers-praises-jamie-vardy-20804071)

Brendan Rodgers praised Jamie Vardy for having a “thick skin” and the perfect response as Leicester cemented their place in the top four.
Leicester striker Vardy celebrated his late goal by flapping his wings like an eagle in front of the Crystal Palace fans who had taunted him about his wife Rebekah’s social media spat with Colleen Rooney.
They chanted “your wife is a grass” and then abused Vardy as he left the pitch at the end but the former England striker had the last laugh with his 19th goal of Rodgers’ nine month reign.
Leicester boss Rodgers, whose side are now six points clear of fifth placed Arsenal in the battle for a Champions League spot, said: “He’s so thick skinned. He’s one of those boys who… (gets abuse) that only makes him better. He’ll not shrivel up.
“He’s very concentrated in his game, very focused in the game. He’s a striker who is very rarely offside because of the timing of his runs. You have to be so clever and bright to do that. He’s playing so well, like all of them.”
Rodgers’ side are up to third and are well ahead of the established big guns like Arsenal, Tottenham and Manchester United and Leicester are determined to stay there.
“The team’s playing well. But we’re not getting carried away. I’m not going to trap the players with pressure to think of anything other than playing. They’ve been absolutely brilliant since I came in,” said Rodgers.
“They’re hungry to learn. First-class. The spirit’s very good. We’re trying to create something here that we can sustain. We’ve had a very good start, some very good performances, different types of wins. With 10 games to go, let’s see where we are.
“We always want to be better, but we’re comfortable in the fact we’re challenging. People asked about European football at the beginning of the season, but there are some incredible teams in this league, great quality.
“Let’s work and try and get better. We’re in a good place, but there’s a long way to go.”
Palace boss Roy Hodgson insisted his side were a match for Leicester in every department but for the goals.
Hodgson said: “I thought it was a relatively even game. I couldn’t have asked a lot more from the Palace team than they gave.
“Leicester have been building up to this (top four pursuit). Not just the new players coming in this season, but they’ve been growing into the roles they’ve been given. They’ve got a lot of gifted players in their team.
"What they carry is a very clear goal threat. That is a major difference from us. We have to work very hard for our goal chances, and hope that whoever gets them might convert them. They have that constant goal threat. They’ve always had that with Jamie Vardy.”
