
# Zebra Sharks Have A New Color

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Melissa Cristina Márquez**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/melissacristinamarquez/2019/11/04/zebra-sharks-have-a-new-color/)

“It all started when fishermen caught some strange looking sharks off the coast of Kenya,” says Dr. Rikke Beckmann Dahl of the Taiwan International Graduate Program. “They were recognizable as zebra sharks but had completely different colors and patterns along their body.”The shark scientifically known as Stegostoma fasciatum is well known for their dramatic change of color pattern as it ages. From striped (“zebra”) juveniles to spotted (“leopard”) adults, their common names vary depending where you are in the world (and are quite confusing). In fact, until 1823 the two different stages led scientists to believe these were two different species! It is believed that the striped pattern of juveniles helps it to camouflage on a reef or even mimic the appearance of venomous predators, such as banded sea snakes. And while they are often seen in aquariums due their ability to thrive in captivity, many aspects of their biology, ecology, and morphology are still unknown or inadequately described. In fact, their very nomenclature is a contentious issue! Led by Dahl, a team of scientists set out to redescribe the species thanks to a hitherto undescribed beige color morph: the Sandy Zebra Shark.
Zebra sharks are one of the most iconic of the carpet shark (Orectolobiformes) species, a diverse group originating in the early Jurassic period approximately 200 million years ago that is known for their drastic color changes from juvenile to adulthood. Known as carpet sharks due to these animals having a marbled or mottled appearance similar to that of fancy carpet designs, they vary with how they look, the habitat they choose, and their size. Zebra sharks are well-known species due to a wide distribution across the Indian and Western Pacific oceans and being quite easy to identify from your average grey-looking shark. Uniformly colored zebra sharks aren’t exactly new (they’ve been observed off the coast of Australia recently, for example) and in 1973 scientist Kazuhiro Nakaya described a uniformly colored specimen that he referred to as albino even thought the color of the iris was inconsistent with the lack of pigmentation in true albinos (this shark had a dark brown color instead of the tell-tale pink true albinos have). Thus, it is a possibility that the specimen described by Nakaya was the very first encountered sandy morph, which may be different from the color morph here described from off the coast of East Africa.
“Through collaboration between Kenya Tropical Sealife and the Danish National Aquarium (Den Blå Planet) the [new color morph] sharks were transported live to Denmark for public display,” says Dahl. “At that time, I was a Master's student at the University of Copenhagen and was about to start my Thesis with Professor Peter Rask Møller at the Natural History Museum of Denmark and was invited to take a closer look at the odd-looking zebra sharks. All could see the immediate color difference and wondered whether this could be a new species of zebra shark. This was a very exciting thought as the zebra shark belongs to a monotypic clade, meaning that this is the only species in its genus. [...] We travelled to Kenya with the hopes of including more individuals of the new color morph and to see the habitat of the sharks.”
Does this new beige color morph mean there is a new species of shark? This possibility was evaluated by DNA barcoding using the COI (cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1) and ND4 (mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase subunit 4) markers. Explained Dahl: “Both of these genes have been successful for distinguishing closely related species and could be an indicator of speciation.” Turns out this morph was not a new species and the zebra shark remains a single species based on genetic data from the COI and ND4 markers. Once they realized it was a single species, the team underwent a full morphological study of zebra sharks encompassing morphometric and meristic measurements. “We counted the number of vertebrae, the rows of teeth, the number of valves within the intestines, and examined the microscopic details of the dermal denticles (skin teeth), for any such differences,” commented Dahl. “For instance, if we consistently saw a longer caudal fin, or a higher number of vertebrae, or different dermal denticle morphology in one of the morphs it could indicate a genetic separation between them. Such a separation can be caused by a physical barrier between the groups of individuals, by long geographical distances, or by differences in behaviour preventing the animals from interbreeding despite being in the same area.” They concluded that there are two morphs of the species, the zebra striped morph we all know (the stripes as a juvenile and the spots that replace the stripes as they age) and the new sandy colored morph.
The team also described the reproductive organ of mature males who sported this new color morph and were astonished to find a previously unknown spike on the clasper gland. Similar to a penis, claspers are an external appendage found on male Chondrichthyans (sharks, skates, rays, and chimaeras) that deliver sperm inside of a female. These animals have two claspers because they are deeply grooved cartilaginous extensions of their pelvic fins. When examining a mature male of the zebra morph, they found a small, triangular spike extruding from the dorsal terminal of the clasper glands. “The most surprising find of the analysis is of how similar these two morphs are. The only significant difference we could find from our elaborate analysis is of the external skin color,” said Dahl via e-mail.
Finally, the researchers reviewed the nomenclature of the species and suggested that the original name Stegostoma tigrinum proposed by J.R. Forster in 1781 should be used as the senior synonym for the species. “We hope that our work on the zebra shark nomenclature can show how tangled a species’ taxonomic history can be, and that species we have known and studied for centuries are not fully understood by a single person or a single description. A name in itself can reveal what is understood or what is observed at that point in time, and it is important to honor the first valid name-giving of a species as part of its history.”
