
# AP Sportlight

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Compiled by PAUL MONTELLA**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/3/ap-sportlight/)

Nov. 4
1934 - The Detroit Lions rush for an NFL record 426 yards in a 40-7 rout of the Pittsburgh Pirates. The only bright spot for the Pirates is scoring the first touchdown against Detroit this season, ending the Lions’ shutout streak at seven games.
1951 - The United States wins six of eight singles matches and ties another to win the Ryder Cup 9½-2½ over Britain at Pinehurst Resort in North Carolina. The margin of victory is the second largest since cup play began in 1927.
1960 - Wilt Chamberlain of Philadelphia scores 44 points and sets an NBA record by missing all 10 of his free throws as the Warriors beat the Detroit Pistons 136-121.
1962 - Sonny Randle of the St. Louis Cardinals catches 16 passes for 256 yards and a touchdown in a 31-28 loss to the New York Giants.
1976 - Baseball holds its first free agent draft with 24 players from 13 major league clubs participating. Reggie Jackson eventually signs the most lucrative contract of the group, $2.9 million over five years with the New York Yankees. Others free agents are Joe Rudi, Don Gullett, Gene Tenace, Rollie Fingers, Don Baylor, Bobby Grich and Willie McCovey.
1989 - Sunday Silence holds the late charge by favorite Easy Goer to win the $3 million Breeders’ Cup Classic by a neck at Gulfstream Park. Sunday Silence, ridden by Chris McCarron, pays $6 for $2 to win as the second choice in the Classic betting and runs the mile and a quarter in 2:00 1/5. Sunday Silence had beaten Easy Goer in the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness before Easy Goer trounced him in the Belmont Stakes.
1994 - The San Antonio Spurs’ season opener is delayed for 50 minutes when a fireworks display triggers the Alamodome sprinkler system, drenching fans, players and coaches.
2000 - In the highest scoring Division I-AA game in NCAA history, Ricky Ray passes for 344 yards and three touchdowns and scores three more to lead Sacramento State over Cal State Northridge 64-61.
2001 - Luis Gonzalez’s RBI single caps a two-run rally off Mariano Rivera in the bottom of the ninth, and the Arizona Diamondbacks win their first championship by beating the New York Yankees 3-2 in Game 7.
2006 - Invasor beats heavy favored Bernardini by one length in the $5 million Breeders’ Cup Classic at Churchill Downs.
2006 - Rod Brind’Amour of Carolina scores his 1,000th career point, assisting on a goal in the Hurricanes’ 3-2 win over Ottawa.
2007 - Adrian Peterson runs for an NFL-record 296 yards and three touchdowns in Minnesota’s 35-17 win over San Diego. It’s the second time he tops 200 yards rushing this season, the only rookie to accomplish the feat.
2009 - The New York Yankees win the World Series, beating the defending champion Philadelphia Phillies 7-3 in Game 6 behind Hideki Matsui’s record-tying six RBIs.
2016 - The Los Angeles Lakers snap Stephen Curry’s NBA-record streak of 157 games with a 3-pointer in a 117-97 victory over the Golden State Warriors. Curry scores 13 points while going 0 for 10 from 3-point range. He had hit a 3-pointer in every regular-season game since Nov. 11, 2014.
2017 - Oklahoma’s Baker Mayfield passes for a school-record 598 yards and five TDs, helping the No. 8 Sooners outlast No. 11 Oklahoma State 62-52 in the highest-scoring game in the history of the rivalry. Mason Rudolph of Oklahoma State passes for 448 yards and five TDs.
2017 - Quarterback Ahmad Bradshaw rushes for a career-high 265 yards and Army ends Air Force’s 306-game scoring streak with a 21-0 win. The last time the Falcons were held scoreless was by Mississippi in the 1992 Liberty Bowl. It’s the first time the Falcons are shut out at home since Nov. 1, 1980, against Boston College.
Nov. 5
1927 - Walter Hagen beats Joe Turnesa 1-up to capture the PGA Championship for the fourth consecutive year and fifth overall.
1955 - Montreal’s Jean Beliveau scores the second fastest hat trick in NHL history in a 4-2 win over Boston. Beliveau, who scores all four Canadien goals, gets three in 44 seconds against Bruins goaltender Terry Sawchuk on the same power play. At that time a penalized player served the entire term of his infraction. The league changes the rule the next season. Bert Olmstead assists on all three of Beliveau’s goals.
1966 - Virgil Carter of Brigham Young passes for 513 yards and rushes for 86 to set an NCAA record for total yards with 599 in a 53-33 victory over Texas Western.
1977 - Brigham Young sophomore Marc Wilson sets an NCAA record with 571 passing yards in a 38-8 rout of Utah.
1978 - Oakland coach John Madden becomes the 13th head coach to win 100 games in the NFL as the Raiders beat the Kansas City Chiefs 20-10.
1988 - Alysheba becomes the richest racehorse when he beats Seeking the Gold by a half-length in the $3 million Breeders’ Cup Classic at Churchill Downs. Alysheba wins first-place money of $1,350,000, giving him a career bankroll of $6,679,242 to push him past John Henry, who retired with $6,591,860.
1994 - George Foreman regains part of the heavyweight title he lost to Muhammad Ali in 1974, stopping Michael Moorer with a two-punch combination at 2:03 of the 10th round. Foreman, 45, captures the IBF and WBA championships to become the oldest champion in any weight class.
1997 - The Milwaukee Brewers becomes the first major league baseball team to switch leagues this century, moving from the AL to the NL when baseball’s ruling executive council approved the shift.
1999 - Carolina’s Ron Francis becomes the sixth NHL player to reach 1,500 career points when he assists on Sami Kapanen’s first-period goal for the Hurricanes in 3-2 loss at Detroit.
2000 - Elvis Grbac completes 39 of 53 passes for a 504 yards and three touchdowns in Kansas City’s 49-31 loss to Oakland.
2010 - Mexico beats the United States in one of the biggest upsets in the history of women’s soccer. The Mexicans, on goals by Maribel Dominguez and Veronica Perez, post 2-1 victory and qualify for the 2011 World Cup.
2011 - Drosselmeyer, a 14-1 long shot, roars down the middle of the track and catches Game On Dude in the closing strides to win the $5 million Breeders’ Cup Classic.
2016 - Arrogate catches 4-5 favorite California Chrome in the final 100 yards to win the $6 million Breeders’ Cup Classic.
2017 - New Orleans beats Tampa Bay 30-10 to improve to 6-2 with its sixth straight victory. The Saints are the third team since the NFL-AFL merger in 1970 to win their next six games after an 0-2 start. The other teams to accomplish the feat - the 1993 Dallas Cowboys and 2007 New York Giants - both won the Super Bowl in that season.
Nov. 6
1934 - Joe Carter scores four touchdowns and Swede Hanson rushes for 190 yards as the Philadelphia Eagles crush the Cincinnati Reds 64-0.
1966 - Philadelphia’s Timmy Brown returns kickoffs 93 yards and 90 yards for touchdowns to lead the Eagles to a 24-23 victory over the Dallas Cowboys.
1981 - Larry Holmes knocks out Renaldo Snipes in the 11th round to retain the world heavyweight title in Pittsburgh.
1983 - James Wilder of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers rushes for 219 yards and a touchdown in a 17-12 victory over the Minnesota Vikings.
1992 - Manon Rheaume of the Atlanta Knights becomes the first woman to suit up for a regular-season pro hockey game. The 20-year-old goalie doesn’t play in Atlanta’s 3-2 overtime loss to Cincinnati in the IHL game.
1993 - French-based Arcangues stages the biggest Breeders’ Cup upset, rallying to beat Bertrando by 2 lengths in the $3 million Classic at Santa Anita. Arcangues went off at 133-1 and returned $269.20 on a $2 bet.
1993 - Evander Holyfield regains the WBA and IBF heavyweight championships from Riddick Bowe in a fight disrupted by a parachutist. During the seventh round at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, the chutist tumbles into the ringside seats and stops the fight for 21 minutes. Holyfield becomes the fourth man to become a heavyweight champion at least twice.
1994 - German Silva of Mexico overcomes a wrong turn in the final mile to beat countryman Benjamin Paredes by 2 seconds in the closest finish in the New York City Marathon’s 25-year history. Silva finished in 2:11:21. Tegla Loroupe won the women’s division in 2:27:37.
1995 - Cleveland owner Art Modell officially announces the Browns are moving to Baltimore for the 1996 NFL season.
1999 - Charles Roberts rushes for 409 yards and five touchdowns to lead Sacramento State past Idaho State 41-20, setting a new NCAA record for a single-game rushing performance.
2010 - Michigan wins the highest scoring game in its 131-year history by stopping a 2-point conversion attempt in the third overtime for a 67-65 victory over Illinois.
2010 - Zenyatta comes within a head of finishing a perfect career. Horse racing’s biggest star closes from dead last, but Blame holds off the 6-year-old mare and wins the $5 million Breeders’ Cup Classic under the lights Churchill Downs. Zenyatta entered the race hoping to improve to 20-0 on her career.
2018 - RJ Barrett scores 33 points and Zion Williamson adds 28 in their first college games, leading No. 4 Duke over No. 2 Kentucky 118-84 in the season-opening Champions Classic. It’s the most lopsided defeat in coach John Calipari’s tenure at Kentucky.
Nov. 7
1925 - Brown and Boston University attempt a “scripted” game in which the teams ran 40 plays (20 each) from scrimmage each quarter without running a clock. Brown wins 42-6.
1943 - The Detroit Lions and New York Giants play the last scoreless tie in the NFL. The game is played in the rain and mud at Detroit’s Briggs Stadium. Neither team gets inside the 15-yard line. The Lions miss three field goal attempts behind the 23, 42 and 15. The Giants get past the 50-yard line once on Mel Hein’s 31-yard interception return to the Lion’s 20. On fourth down Ward Cuff’s field-goal attempt behind the 15 goes wide.
1965 - The Detroit Lions sack quarterback Bart Starr 11 times in a 12-7 win over the Green Bay Packers.
1968 - Red Berenson scores six goals, including four in the second period, to lead the St. Louis Blues to an 8-0 victory over Philadelphia.
1974 - South Africa is awarded the Davis Cup against India. India refuses to play in the final because of its opponent’s apartheid policy. It’s the first time the final is not played.
1985 - Rubin “Hurricane” Carter, the former middleweight boxer convicted twice of a triple murder in 1966 and the hero of a Bob Dylan song, is released after 19 years in prison. Carter, 48, is freed after a federal judge rules the boxer and a co-defendant were denied their civil rights by prosecutors during trials in 1967 and 1976.
1991 - Magic Johnson, who helped the Los Angeles Lakers to five NBA championships, announces he has tested positive for the AIDS virus and is retiring.
1999 - Tiger Woods becomes the first player since Ben Hogan in 1953 to win four straight tournaments, capturing the American Express Championship.
2003 - The defending champion U.S. baseball team fails to qualify for the 2004 Athens Olympics, losing to Mexico 2-1 in the quarterfinals of a qualifying tournament in Panama City, Panama.
2008 - Jerry Sloan is the first NBA coach to win 1,000 games with one team when his Utah Jazz beat the Oklahoma City Thunder, 104-97. Sloan, 1,000-596 with the Jazz, has an overall coaching record of 1,094-717 with the Jazz and Chicago Bulls.
2008 - Peter Laviolette becomes the winningest American-born coach in NHL history when the Carolina Hurricanes beat the Ottawa Senators 2-1. Laviolette moves ahead of former Tampa Bay coach John Tortorella with his 240th career victory.
2009 - Zenyatta comes from last after a poor start and fights off Gio Ponti in the stretch to win the $5 million Breeders’ Cup Classic. The 5-year-old mare, ridden by Mike Smith, beats a loaded field of 11 males and becomes the first female to win the race in its 26-year history.
2010 - Indianapolis quarterback Peyton Manning starts his 200th consecutive game, a 26-24 loss at Philadelphia. Manning joins Brett Favre as the only quarterbacks in NFL history to start 200 consecutive games.
2016 - Stephen Curry sets an NBA record with 13 3-pointers - one game after missing all his long-range attempts for the first time in two years - and the Golden State Warriors beat the winless New Orleans Pelicans 116-106. Curry finishes with 46 points, three days after his league-record streak of 157 games with at least one 3 was snapped.
Nov. 8
1942 - Parker Hall of the Cleveland Rams throws seven interceptions against the Green Bay Packers.
1952 - Maurice Richard of the Montreal Canadiens becomes the NHL’s leading career goal scorer with his 325th in a 6-4 victory over the Chicago Black Hawks.
1959 - Elgin Baylor of the Minneapolis Lakers scores 64 points against the Boston Celtics.
1970 - Tom Dempsey of New Orleans kicks an NFL-record 63-yard field goal on the final play of the game to give the Saints a 19-17 victory over the Detroit Lions. The previous record was 56 yards, set by Baltimore’s Bert Rechichar in 1953.
1975 - Kansas snaps second-ranked Oklahoma’s 28-game winning streak, 23-3, in Norman, Okla. The Jayhawks defense holds the Sooners’ offense to its lowest scoring output since 1966.
1980 - Dave Wilson of Illinois sets an NCAA record with 621 yards passing in a 49-42 victory over Ohio State.
1981 - Don Shula records his 200th NFL victory when the Miami Dolphins edge the New England Patriots 30-27 in overtime.
1986 - Tulsa’s Steve Gage is the first quarterback to rush and pass for 200 yards in a game. Gage rushes for 212 and passes for 209 in a 34-27 triumph over New Mexico.
1987 - The St. Louis Cardinals score 28 points - three TD passes by Neil Lomax and a fumble recovery by Niko Noga - to overcome a 28-3 deficit and beat the Tampa Bay Buccaneers 31-28.
1991 - Paul Coffey breaks the NHL career mark for goals by a defenseman by scoring in the second period of the Pittsburgh Penguins’ 3-1 victory over the Winnipeg Jets. Coffey’s 311th career goal breaks the mark set by Denis Potvin, who had 310 for the New York Islanders.
1997 - Phil Housley becomes the second U.S.-born player in NHL history to score 1,000 points, tallying an assist as the Washington Capitals beat the Edmonton Oilers 2-1.
2003 - John Gagliardi becomes college football’s career victory leader when St. John’s rallies to beat Bethel 29-26. Gagliardi, in his 55th season and his 51st at the Minnesota school, gets his 409th victory, passing Eddie Robinson, who retired in 1997 after winning 408 games at Grambling.
2005 - Pierre Turgeon becomes the 34th player in NHL history to reach 500 goals, scoring in the third period of Colorado’s 5-2 win over San Jose.
2014 - Northern Iowa keeps three-time defending FCS champion North Dakota State out of the end zone and hands the Bison their first loss, 23-3. The loss snaps North Dakota State’s 33-game winning streak, the longest in Football Championship Subdivision history.
2015 - Pittsburgh’s Antonio Brown sets franchise records with 17 receptions for 284 yards while helping the Steelers to a 38-35 win over the Oakland Raiders.
2018 - Jessica McDonald, making just her second appearance for the national team, scores in the 43rd minute and the U.S. women’s national team reaches its 500th victory with a 1-0 win over Portugal in Lisbon. The U.S. national team is now 500-65-74 overall since its inception in 1985.
Nov. 9
1912 - The lateral pass is used as an offensive weapon for the first time by Worcester Tech coach William F. Carney. Carney’s team beats Amherst 14-13.
1946 - Second-ranked Notre Dame fights to a 0-0 tie with No. 1 Army at Yankee Stadium to snap the Cadets’ 25-game winning streak. The Irish defense holds Army’s running backs Doc Blanchard and Glenn Davis to a combined 79 yards.
1953 - The U.S. Supreme Court rules 7-2 that baseball is not subject to antitrust laws, maintaining the game is a sport, not a business.
1957 - Claude Provost of the Montreal Canadiens sets an NHL record by scoring 4 seconds into the second period of a 4-2 victory over the Boston Bruins.
1972 - John Bucyk of the Boston Bruins scores his 1,000th point with a goal in an 8-3 win over the Detroit Red Wings.
1984 - Larry Holmes scores a 12th-round technical knockout of Bonecrusher Smith to retain the IBF heavyweight title in Las Vegas. Smith is cut around the eyes and nose, and the match is halted when he is unable to see out of his left eye.
1984 - Boston’s Larry Bird and Philadelphia’s Julius Erving exchange punches late in the third quarter of the Celtics’ 130-119 win over the 76ers. Bird, with 42 points, is called for an offensive foul at 1:38 with the Celtics up 95-75. Philadelphia center Moses Malone grabs Bird around his neck and holds him as Erving hits Bird several times. The benches clear and Bird and Erving, with 6 points, are ejected.
1989 - The Milwaukee Bucks beat the Seattle SuperSonics 155-154 in five overtimes, matching the second-longest game in NBA history. The game is the longest game since the advent of the 24-second shot clock in 1954. Seattle’s Dale Ellis sets an NBA record by playing 69 of the 73 minutes.
1991 - Marshall Faulk of San Diego State returns after missing three games due to injury and breaks the NCAA record for touchdowns by a freshman with his 20th in a 42-32 win over Colorado State.
1996 - Evander Holyfield pounds Mike Tyson into submission at 37 seconds of the 11th round to win the WBA heavyweight title in Las Vegas. Holyfield, a 7-1 underdog, becomes the second man to hold a piece of the heavyweight title three times.
2005 - Carolina’s Erik Cole is the first player in NHL history to be awarded two penalty shots in one game. He scores on the first, helping the Hurricanes defeat Buffalo 5-3.
2011 - Joe Paterno is fired by the Penn State board of trustees despite saying he would retire as coach after the football season ended. Paterno is brought down by the growing furor over the handling of child sex abuse allegations against assistant coach Jerry Sandusky. Penn State President Graham Spanier is also ousted.
2014 - Aaron Rodgers throws six touchdown passes to tie the Green Bay game record and match the NFL record for a half in a 55-14 rout of the Chicago Bears. Rodgers ties the NFL mark for TD passes in a half set by Oakland’s Daryle Lamonica in 1969.
2016 - Golden State makes 17-of-33 three-pointers in a 116-95 blowout of the Dallas Mavericks, with teammates Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, and Draymond Green all making four apiece. The Warriors are the first team to have four players hit four three-point shots.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
