
# Martin Lewis' astonishing 3-year obsession has seen him cover 22,000km on foot

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:47:30+00:00**

Author: **James Andrews, http://www.facebook.com/jameswritesmoney/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/martin-lewis-astonishing-3-year-20825257)

No matter the weather, his plans, whether he's on a long-haul flight or even in hospital, Martin Lewis walks at least 10,000 steps a day.
In fact, he normally covers more than twice that distance on foot in what he admits has become a bit of an obsession for him.
And the financial guru has just chalked up a major milestone.
"Just hit 10,000 steps for the day. That means it's now 3yrs without missing my 10,000 minimum target even for a day (including days with illness, minor ops, or long haul flights)," Martin tweeted.
In fact, he normally doubles that number - with an average of 24,250 daily steps over the past three years.
"I admit it's an obsession, but a healthy one," he said.
 
And his impressive feat has got people intrigued.
"Martin, really, how do you actually do it? Is it through interviews etc, that you walk across the city to, or some other method too? It's quite astonishing," one person asked.
"I walk an hour to & from work, where possible all intraday travel is walking," Marin replied.
"I schedule phone meetings/interviews etc for while I walk, so the time is mostly productive, meaning the 'time cost' of doing it isn't large. Plus I run 40k a week & Mrs MSE likes walking too."
Asked if he ever had to pace around the house to hit his goal, Martin said it was a rare occurrence - but didn't deny it.
"I find 10,000 easy as my life is arranged around walking. I do like to hit 20,000 though most days so occasionally pace in the house for that!" he said.
It also means that he's clocked up an impressive total - almost enough to travel around the world in fact.
He estimates that over three years he's covered an astonishing 22,000km in total "at a rough estimation".
Although, while clearly on brand in saving money on travel and expensive gym memberships, that doesn't mean it's completely without cost.
"How many pairs of shoes have you got through?!," one of his followers asked.
It was a one question Martin didn't have an immediate answer for.
