
# Playing Political Games: How US Pressures Europe Vis-a-Vis Balkans

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/analysis/201911071077236718-playing-political-games-how-us-pressures-europe-vis-a-vis-balkans/)


        Special envoy for the Western Balkans Matthew Palmer’s statement that the EU’s refusal to set a date for the start of accession negotiations for Northern Macedonia and Albania is a big mistake, demonstrates that America is trying to show who the “boss” in the region is.
      
Matthew Palmer, US Special Envoy for the Western Balkans, Deputy Assistant to the US Secretary of State, met with Serbian President Alexander Vučić in Belgrade on 4 November. Among other things, he said that the US wanted the Western Balkans to have a European perspective, and the EU’s not setting a date to start negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania was a “historic mistake".
Palmer emphasised that the EU had sent a negative message to the entire region, and that he would do everything possible to convince the European Union to change their position before the May meeting in Zagreb.
Does this mean that the United States openly declares that Europe is unable to make independent decisions? Can Palmer’s statement be considered an open attack on Emmanuel Macron, who vetoed Albania and Northern Macedonia’s accession to the EU?
According to political scientist Јelena Vukoicic, America has long regarded the EU as a kind of protectorate, and they use the Balkans as the trigger, which always helps them “light” Europe.
Vukoicic wonders why the United States intervenes in Brussels’ decisions, as well as why a country that is not an EU member is dealing with Albania and Northern Macedonia’s accession to the European Union.
According to the expert, the US takes such a dominant position because it doesn’t want its influence on the EU to weaken; the Balkan Peninsula is used mostly for this.
International law professor Bojan Milisavljevic believes that although the United States directly intervenes in EU affairs with its statements on Albania and Northern Macedonia, they don’t have such a big impact on Brussels’ strategic decisions.
He believes that the United States doesn’t have enough power to return Northern Macedonia and Albania to Brussels' agenda. Vukoicic notes that the EU, most definitely, will not expand in the next 10 years, as it will take a lot of time to consolidate, which again gives the US an extra chance to “take over” the Balkans.

        by Brankica Ristic
      
The views and opinions expressed in the article do not necessarily reflect those of Sputnik.
