
# Inter will sign Sanchez permanently in January, reveals Giuseppe Marotta

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:20:35+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/inter-will-sign-sanchez-permanently-in-january-reveals-giuseppe-marotta?utm_medium=rss)


        Inter Milan chief executive Giuseppe ‘Beppe’ Marotta has revealed that the club have decided to sign on-loan attacker Alexis Sanchez permanently from Manchester United. Marotta applauded the former Arsenal man for his contributions to the team and revealed that he has fit in well in the team.
      
With the hope of re-igniting the dying embers of his career Alexis Sanchez left for Inter on loan from Manchester United after spending a disappointing 18 months at Old Trafford. The Chilean walked in as Jose Mourinho's hope for the future and walked out as the example as to why the former Chelsea boss failed to thrive at Old Trafford. However, since his move back to the Serie A, Sanchez has found a new lease of life before an injury to his tendon cut things short.
In four games the 30-year-old had scored 1 and assisted another but more importantly has proven to be the perfect option off the bench. That combined with the fact that he gels well with both Romelu Lukaku and Lautaro Martinez has helped Sanchez's cause. The 30-year-old will not be able to play until January as he recovers from the injury but that hasn’t stopped the club from admitting that they will make the move permanent.
In an interview, Inter chief Giuseppe Marotta went on to admit that the club will be signing the 30-year-old permanently and he'll become their first January move.
“Every competition has some unforeseen events, a big team is needed. However, the first purchase in January will be Alexis Sanchez, who will resume working with his teammates. He has proved to be a great player,” Marotta told Semperinter.
The club executive was also asked if they will be cashing in on Lautaro Martinez to which he responded that the Argentine striker isn’t for sale. In recent weeks, Martinez has been heavily linked to Barcelona as a successor to ageing Luis Suarez. The 23-year-old has also attracted interest from England but Marotta has made it clear that Inter are not a selling club and the Argentine is going no-where unless he wants to leave.
“We are Inter, a great team that does not necessarily have to give up their best players, unless the players want to leave. In his case, the release clause does not matter, what matters is his desire to grow and improve together with his teammates,” concluded Marotta.
