
# Death in prison probe launched by justice minister after series of scandals

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Annie Brown, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/annie-brown/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/death-prison-probe-launched-justice-20833818)

Justice Minister Humza Yousaf has ordered an independent review of deaths in Scottish prisons. 
The move follows a series of death in custody scandals, including that of Allan Marshall 30, who suffered a cardiac arrest in March 2015 after being restrained by up to 17 guards at Edinburgh’s Saughton Prison. 
And the review will hear from the families of Katie Allan, 21, and William Lindsay, 16 who took their own lives in Polmont Young Offenders Institution, despite warning signs they were in a distressed and vulnerable state.
Yousaf said: “Nothing can take away the pain felt by families grieving the death of a loved one in prison.
"However, I’m hopeful that this work will identify areas for improvement. It’s in the interests of everyone involved – families and prison staff alike – that the handling of deaths in prison is as robust and transparent as it can be.
 
"We must ensure there is absolute public confidence in the processes in place. 
“Few of us can imagine how it would feel to lose someone we care about while they are in prison care.
"What we can do is listen to the experiences of those who have been in that tragic situation. I have met and heard from a number of families over the last year, including the family of Allan Marshall, and a vital element of this review will involve relatives sharing their views on processes and communication.”
Earlier this year a Sheriff ruled Allan’s death was “entirely preventable” in his determination following a Fatal Accident Inquiry (FAI)  
Officers involved were given immunity from prosecution over the death. 
Yousaf met with the Marshall family to personally apologise for the failures which led to Allan’s deaths. 
The review will look at major issues including the destruction of evidence following a death and the collusion of officers before they give police statements. 
In Allan’s case vital evidence including CCTV footage was destroyed and guards involved were able to discuss the incident at length before police took statements. 
They were given immunity from prosecution at the FAI and the Sheriff concluded some had lied during their evidence. 
The review will also examine the operational policies, practice and training in place within the Scottish Prison Service (SPS) and NHS relevant to deaths of prisoners.
 
It will draw on human rights expertise and will also consider the experiences of bereaved relatives and preventative approaches where families could red flag concerns over the welfare of a loved one in prison.
The families of Allan, Katie and William, have been at the core of exposing systematic failings within Scotland’s prisons. 
The families of Katie and William insist they would not have died if they had been given appropriate mental health support and they have campaigned for a review and overhaul of the prison service’s treatment of vulnerable inmates. 
The announcement of the review stated it “will not consider or comment on the circumstances of individual deaths in custody” still being investigated by the Crown or which haven’t yet been the subject of an FAI, which includes Katie and William. 
But it will hear evidence from their loved ones. 
Katie’s mum Linda said yesterday she hoped the review would benefit both the families of those who die in Scottish prisons and the staff. 
She said: “When I met with Humza, he was compassionate and clearly committed to change. Whilst nothing will bring our daughter back, we hope this review will be the beginning of ending avoidable deaths within custody. 
“It is not just families who are left traumatised by the failures of our justice system, many staff working in prisons are also deeply affected by the countless deaths.
"There can be no place in Scotland for ‘state sanctioned’ deaths."
But she said she also hoped the Lord Advocate would now look at whether criminal charges should be brought in the cases of William and Katie. 
She said: “We thank Humza for recognising this, but hope the Lord Advocate will do the same, by holding those responsible for Katie and  William Lindsay’s deaths and so many more accountable in law.”
Lawyer Aamer Anwar, who acts for both Katie and William’s families said the review must be more than a “box ticking exercise”. 
He said: “The families of William Lindsay and Katie Allan welcome today’s announcement. For far too long, an arrogant, unaccountable Scottish Prison Service  have used the passage of time to avoid responsibility for deaths. 
“If this inquiry is not simply another talking shop, then the review’s conclusions must be backed up by law. That would be a fitting legacy to Katie, William and so many others who died in the care of our prisons.
“The families have been promised that they will have a central role to play. They will not be used as box ticking exercise. The important step taken by Humza today could save lives and that opportunity must not be squandered.”
The independent review will be led by Wendy Sinclair-Gieben, Chief Inspector of Prisons for Scotland with  expertise from  Professor Nancy Loucks, Chief Executive of Families Outside, a national charity which works on behalf of families affected by imprisonment.
Jelina Berlow-Rahman, the lawyer representing the Allan family said the review " looked promising" and she hoped it would lead to a positive structure being put in place following a death in custody. 
Allan's aunt Sharon MacFadyen said she was relieved Mr Yousaf had listened to the famiy and was taking action but said it would not bring justice over her nephew's death. 
She said:" Hopefully this will prevent another family going through what we have. However, this review will not address the fact that no-one has been held accountable or responsible for Allan's death." 
