
# Connor Goldson has a short memory with his Rangers team-mates fouling opponents – Hotline

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:45:19+00:00**

Author: **Sports Hotline, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/sports-hotline/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/connor-goldson-short-memory-rangers-20815511)

Sorry to come over all Hollies on the Hotline (under 40s, ask your parents) but Scottish football is riding along on a carousel.
The merry-go-round of managers is about to turn one more time and callers don’t know if they’re coming or going.
Sometimes, they even struggle for the air that they breathe. What a Carrie-Anne.
First up, Robert Dyet, Coatbridge, said: “Why don’t Bayern Munich go for Stephen Robinson - everyone else is?”
Andrew Lamb, Fraserburgh, said: “I suspect Paul Heckingbottom is well out of it at Hibs - a club that goes a hundred years between trophies, with an unrealistic support and bargain basement signings. It all killed the manager. 
“I see Alan Stubbs, with his neck of brass, has said he would love the job. His eagerness to leave for Rotherham and his subsequent sacking there should see him bottom of any pile.”
 
Bobby Duncan, Skelmorlie, said: “With both Hearts and Hibs looking for a new manager, surely there is an opportunity for David Moyes to get back into football management, if he still wants to? I cannot think of a better, more experienced candidate.”

        He’s already said he wouldn’t be interested...
      
Ian Jack, Cullen, said: “Surely it’s only a matter of time before Preston’s Alex Neil gets a call from a big club? He’s done well at every club he’s bossed.” 
Frank McFerran, Carrickfergus, said: “So Hibs join Hearts in their hunt for a new manager and the inevitable names, including Jack Ross and Steven Pressley, are mentioned. Pressley is a journeyman manager and surely the Scottish Premiership deserves better? Bring in new blood and new ideas.”
Paddy Gowans said: “A manger’s job in football is the best going. It’s a win-win - you get the sack for not doing your job and pick up a golden handshake before moving on to the next club to do the same.”
Andrew Tait, East Kilbride, said: “I’d urge Edinburgh’s big two to hold off naming a boss until after the General Election, when surely Boris Johnson will be looking for work.
“He has extensive experience of Europe, even if he has never come back with a decent result. He’s perfectly suited to the Premiership.”
There was scarcely any fall out from the Betfred Cup semi-finals at the weekend as the Old Firm advanced comfortably to set up a dynamite showdown at Hampden on December 8.
 
But Connor’s Goldson’s criticism of the strong arm tactics of Hearts at the national stadium on Sunday won few backers. 
James Brown, Glasgow, said: “Suddenly, Connor Goldson has a go at guys such as Steven MacLean for his foul play. Where is he when his own team-mates, including Alfredo Morelos and Allan McGregor, do the same?”
John Stewart, Glasgow, said: “When Rangers players use their elbows it is only to help them gain height, but when it happens to them they moan that they are being ‘battered’.
“Steven McLean’s elbow only touched Goldson on the side of his head, but he hit the deck like a sack of tatties, at the same time holding his face with both hands as if he had a broken nose. He has a very short memory when it comes to several of his team mates committing ‘assaults’ on other players and getting away with it.”
The time for peace and goodwill to all men will soon be approaching, but it’s thin on the ground as the build up to the Final - the first between the big two since 2011 - gathers pace.
Peter Higgins, Livingston, said: “I would like to inform Hotline caller Mr Gallagher it is a well-known fact that not one of the Rangers first 11 would get into Celtic’s first team, although Ryan Kent and Alfredo Morelos would get a place on the bench if we were struck down with horrendous injuries.”
Joe Smith, Coleraine, said: “Good on Hotline caller Kenny Wilson, who thinks his team have better players than Rangers. We’ll see what he thinks at the end of the season with title 55 and a Treble in the bag for the Teddy Bears.”
John Bruce, via email, said: “Rangers are a different animal this season under Steven Gerrard. And with the league’s top predator constantly hungry for goals, Alfredo Morelos made sure Hearts were lambs to the slaughter on Sunday.”
