
# Third-period rally propels Prince Albert Raiders past Regina Pats

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:22:47+00:00**

Author: **Regina Leader-Post**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/sports/hockey/regina-pats/third-period-rally-propels-prince-albert-raiders-past-regina-pats)

Spencer Moe had two goals and an assist on Friday night, leading the Prince Albert Raiders to a 6-3 comeback win over the visiting Regina Pats.
It was the third straight win for the defending WHL champions (10-2-3-0), who prevailed before 2,703 fans at the Art Hauser Centre.
Logan Nijhoff had two goals in a losing cause for the Pats (2-11-1-0), whose modest two-game points streak came to an end.
After a scoreless first period, Moe buried his first of the night 1:32 into the second. Drew Englot (first WHL goal) and Nijhoff responded to give Regina a 2-1 lead after 40 minutes, but the Raiders scored four straight in the third (Ozzy Wiesblatt, Reece Vitelli, Aliaksei Protas and Brayden Watts) to open up a 5-2 lead.
Nijhoff added his second of the night with 2:27 left in regulation before Moe rounded out the scoring 32 seconds later into an empty net.
Max Paddock made 35 saves for the Pats, who were outshot 16-7 in the third and 41-26 overall.
Raiders netminder Boston Bilous picked up the win.
EXTRAS: F Caiden Daley, acquired Tuesday from Brandon, notched one assist in his Pats debut … Protas had a goal and two assists while Ilya Usau added three helpers … Prince Albert went 2-for-4 on the power play. Regina was 0-for-3 … The Pats are back on home ice Sunday (4 p.m.) against the Red Deer Rebels.
 
