
# Timo Werner transfer warning sent to Man Utd and Liverpool by RB Leipzig chief

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:31:07+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/timo-werner-transfer-warning-sent-20811923)

Manchester United and Liverpool have been warned by RB Leipzig that they do not intend to let Timo Werner leave the club.
Werner is spearheading Leipzig's Bundesliga title bid having developed into one of the top strikers in the German top flight.
His fine form has led to increased speculation he could head to the Premier League with Liverpool and United linked with a move.
United are understood to be preparing to hijack Liverpool's move for their long-term target to solve their attacking woes - but Leipzig sporting director Markus Krosche has issued them a clear message by insisting they have no intention to sell.
Addressing speculation surrounding the 23-year-old, Krosche told Bild : "Timo just extended his contract with us recently, and we're not thinking about letting him go at all."
Werner penned a four-year deal at Leipzig in the summer after being heavily linked with domestic rivals Bayern Munich.
A report from Kicker claimed he has a release clause of just €30million (£27m) in his deal, but Bild suggest things are not that straightforward.
They report that his release clause could rise as high as €60 million depending on performances, and it is designed to drop from year to year.
As a result, United and Liverpool may have to splash the cash if they want to try and convince Grosche to change his mind and allow the Germany international to leave.
Having struggled for goals this season, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer sees Werner as a top target to boost their firepower.
Jurgen Klopp, meanwhile, sees Werner as an ideal addition to their powerful front three of Sadio Mane, Roberto Firmino and Mohamed Salah to add an extra dimension as well as more squad depth with a hectic schedule.
Werner bagged another hat-trick at the weekend in an 8-0 thrashing of Mainz, taking his goal tally up to 13 goals in just 15 appearances this term.
