
# David Moyes reveals Celtic talks as he opens up on management return hopes

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:50:15+00:00**

Author: **Record Sport Online**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/david-moyes-reveals-celtic-talks-20814246)

David Moyes has revealed he previously held talks over becoming Celtic manager.
The former Everton and Manchester United boss has been linked with a move to Parkhead on a handful of occasions.
He was first touted for the role before the club appointed Brendan Rodgers in 2016 before admitting he would be interested in succeeding the Irishman after his departure two-and-a-half years later.
Moyes admits he's unsure if Celtic ever considered him a serious candidate but insists talks did take place.
He told BBC Sportsound: "I don't know how close I have been to get it, but I have had conversations with them over the years.
"It's something which has meant a lot to me.
"But I also had big opportunities to stay in England and other opportunities to take other big clubs. 
"I have had lots of opportunities now to get back to work, but most have been in the English Championship, so if the right job comes along, I'll certainly look at it."
The Scot ruled himself out of the running to manage either Hearts or Hibs on Sunday night, with the Edinburgh rivals having both sacked their managers in the past seven days.
 
But Moyes confirmed he's not interested in replacing Craig Levein or Paul Heckingbottom.
Moyes, who has been out of the game since leaving West Ham in 2018, added: "Neither job would be of any interest to me.
"I wouldn’t say I wouldn’t move back to Scotland. Scotland is my love and Glasgow is where I am from.
“Hopefully, someday I will be back.  At the moment it is not for just now.”
