
# Leeds identify on-loan Arsenal striker Eddie Nketiah's return date after injury

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:20:51+00:00**

Author: **David Anderson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-anderson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/leeds-hope-loan-arsenal-striker-20816611)

Leeds hope Eddie Nketiah will be back in action before the end of the month after the hitman was ruled out with a stomach injury.
Nketiah could be missing for three weeks with the abdominal problem he suffered in training on the eve of Leeds’ win over QPR.
Leeds are not putting an exact timescale on how long the on-loan Arsenal striker will be absent and hope he will return before November finishes.
In addition to the victory over QPR, Nketiah is also expected to miss Saturday’s clash with Blackburn and the trips to Luton and Reading.
Leeds hope he may be back for their match against Middlesbrough on November 30 at Elland Road.
 
Nketiah’s loss is a blow to Leeds’ promotion bid and the 20-year-old is their top scorer with five goals from his 12 appearances for the Yorkshire outfit.
Leeds are struggling for goals this season and have netted just 19 times in their 15 league games.
They are particularly goal shy at Elland Road and have managed just seven in their seven home matches.
Fans have big hopes for Nketiah and were desperate to see him start in the Championship because all 10 of his appearances have come from the bench.
 
Coach Marcelo Bielsa has resisted the growing clamour from the stands to stand him, preferring Patrick Bamford up front.
Nketiah was pushing hard for his first league start before his injury and scored a hat-trick for England Under-21s in their Euro 2021 qualifying win over Austria last month
