
# Arbitration: Hader, Urías eligible; García, Weaver just miss

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/6/arbitration-hader-urias-eligible-garcia-weaver-jus/)

NEW YORK (AP) - Milwaukee closer Josh Hader just made the cutoff for salary arbitration eligibility with 2 years, 115 days of major league service.
Los Angeles Dodgers left-hander Julio Urías also is on the list of 23 so-called Super 2s with 2 years, 117 days. The cutoff was down significantly from 2 years, 134 days last offseason.
Miami left-hander Jarlin García just missed with 2 years, 114 days, and Arizona right-hander Luke Weaver had 2 years, 112 days.
The top 22% of players by service time with at least two years but less than three are eligible for arbitration as long as they had at least 86 days of service this year. They join the older group of 3- to 6-year players.
Players and teams are scheduled to exchange proposed salaries on Jan. 10, and hearings for those lacking agreements will be scheduled for Feb. 3 to 21 in Phoenix.
The New York Yankees have four Super 2s: right-handers Luis Cessa and Jonathan Holder, left-hander Jordan Montgomery and third baseman Gio Urshela.
Urías is joined by Dodgers outfielder Cody Bellinger and Hader by Brewers left-hander Brent Suter.
Other teams with two eligible Super 2 players include Colorado (left-hander Kyle Freeland and outfielder David Dahl), Tampa Bay (right-hander Tyler Glasnow and shortstop Daniel Robertson), the Los Angeles Angels (right-handers Kenyan Middleton and Noé Ramirez) and San Diego (outfielder Hunter Renfroe and right-hander Dinelson Lamet).
Also eligible are Atlanta infielder Johan Camargo, Oakland right-hander Jharel Cotton, Detroit outfielder Jacoby Jones, Toronto right-hander Derek Law, San Francisco left-hander Wandy Peralta, Miami outfielder JT Riddle and Chicago Cubs left-hander Kyle Ryan.
Milwaukee first baseman/outfielder Tyler Austin, Texas left-hander Jesse Biddle, Cleveland right-hander A.J. Cole and Yankees right-hander David Hale would have been eligible but were dropped from 40-man rosters.
St. Louis shortstop Paul DeJong would have been eligible but will earn $1.5 million as part of a $26 million, six-year contract.
More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
