
# Sharks filmed jumping out of ocean to snatch 30kg mackerel from fishermen

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:25:00+00:00**

Author: **Chiara Fiorillo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/sharks-filmed-jumping-out-ocean-20806814)

Several sharks have been filmed jumping out of the ocean to snatch huge prey caught by fishermen.
Footage posted on social media shows a boat crew hunting for 30kg Spanish mackerel off Cape Carnage in North East Arnhem Land.
The sharks can be seen lunging for their prey in one of Australia's most infested waters.
Fishermen catch the fish with great difficulty as the mackerel jump in the air along with sharks that try to eat them.
Crew members were also filmed holding their catch with huge chunks bitten out of the fish.
One of the boat's crew was seriously injured when a shark smashed into the hull as she was trying to drag a huge mackerel.
Her glove did not protect her from the steel cable used to pull in the fish, leaving her with a deep cut across her whole hand.
 
The clip, which appeared on the Daily Mail , is part of a documentary by Fishing The Wild .
The video makers were not filming when thirty-year veteran Juanita got injured, but they witnessed and described the terrifying scene.
"She suffered a huge amount of crushed bones and damaged internal structures and required being medically airlifted 700km back to Darwin," they said.
"We were humbled to witness the day-to-day intensity of their lifestyle and to say that these women are tough is the understatement of the century."
Fishing in these remote, shark-infested waters, can be extremely dangerous.
In a previous accident, crew member Prue was stung by a box jellyfish and was rushed to hospital.
Both women are now recovering and will not suffer long-lasting effects from their injuries.
Troy Peterson commented on YouTube: "I can’t imagine a more epic adventure to go on as a fisherman.
"I’ve done a lot of things on and in the water that I thought were wild, but after seeing this incredible footage, I’m not in the same league. Great video!"
