
# Tunnock's launch new fundraising initiative for Maggie's Lanarkshire

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kirsten McStay**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/tunnocks-launch-new-fundraising-initiative-20786873)

Maggie’s Lanarkshire has a new fundraising initiative which really takes the biscuit – thanks to the generous support of Uddingston confectionery firm Tunnock’s.
They have announced the launch of the Caramel Wafer Matched Giving Challenge, which will see the company match all new donations to the cancer care centre, over the three months from October 1, up to the value of £50,000.
Now supporters of the charity, based in the grounds of Monklands Hospital, are being asked to give generously online, by phone or in person to make the most of the windfall offer.
Sir Boyd said: “We are delighted to be supporting the amazing work of Maggie’s Lanarkshire to help people live well with cancer. I look forward to seeing how people respond to the challenge and helping the centre continue to support people with cancer as well as their family and friends.”
Tunnock’s are long-term supporters of Maggie’s and previously ran a similar £50,000 match-funding challenge in 2017.
Lorrie Forsyth, centre head at Maggie’s Lanarkshire said: “We are very lucky that Sir Boyd Tunnock has agreed to support Maggie’s with a match-funding pledge up to £50,000 for a second time. It was at a special afternoon tea to celebrate Sir Boyd’s recent knighthood that he made the pledge to double funds to support Maggie’s, and we can’t thank him enough.
“This is such a generous pledge and will double every penny we receive in donations making every gift we receive go twice as far towards our aim of making the biggest difference possible to anyone and everyone in Lanarkshire living with cancer.
“Maggie’s relies entirely on voluntary donations to be able to continue to offer our unique programme of support and keep our centre open for everyone who needs it. Being able to make the most of the Caramel Wafer Matched Giving Challenge would be the best possible finale to the end of our year.”
To donate, you can drop into Maggie’s Lanarkshire, or you can go to www.maggiescentres.org/how-you-can-help/ways-give. Remember to quote Caramel Wafer Matched Giving Challenge
