
# Man charged following the death of a man in Perth

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:13:49+00:00**

Author: **Rachel Clark, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/rachel-clark/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/man-charged-following-death-man-20834645)

A man has been charged following the death of a 47-year-old man in Perth earlier this week.
Police officers were called to Uist Place in Perth at around 7pm on Monday, November 4 following reports a 47-year-old man had died.
The 47-year-old has been named by police as Graeme Hughes.
A 31-year-old man has since been arrested and charged following Mr Hughes's death.
The man made an appearance at Perth Sheriff Court yesterday (Wednesday, November 6) in connection with Mr Hughes’s death.
Police officers are also now appealing to members of the public for more information to help them with their investigation.
Detective Inspector Keith Duncan, the senior investigating officer, said: “Our enquiries continue and we are keen to speak to anyone who may have been in the area of Uist Place around 3.30pm on Monday, November 4.
“We are also looking to speak to anyone who may have been in the areas of Uist Place, Bute Drive and Stroma Court, between 3.45pm and 6.30pm that day and could have seen Graeme, who was wearing a grey hooded top and dark bottoms.”
A police presence will remain in the area whilst enquiries are ongoing.
Anyone with information is asked to contact Police Scotland on 101 or speak to any police officer, quoting incident number 3464 of November 4.
Information can also be passed on anonymously via the charity Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.
