
# Polish criminal gifted social housing in Scotland turns flat into large-scale drugs hub

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Currie**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/polish-criminal-gifted-social-housing-20797976)

A Polish criminal who was given a housing association flat when he moved to Scotland used it to set up a ­large-scale drug ­operation.
Kamil Morawski, 31, ­peddled ecstasy, speed and cannabis and was found with £40,000 worth of drugs after turning the ­property into the hub of his illegal trade.
The dad – who had been jailed in Poland for drug-related crimes – was caught with nearly two kilos of speed, worth almost £20,000.
Officers also recovered more than 1000 ecstasy ­tablets and more than a kilo of cannabis in the Perth flat.
When his home was raided by police, Morawski told them he was a drug dealer and had been selling illicit substances for months.
 
Prosecutor Charmaine Gilmartin told Perth Sheriff Court: “He has offended ­previously in Poland but has no previous convictions in the UK.
“This took place in a two-bedroom flat owned by a housing association.
“The police received ­intelligence the accused was supplying drugs from his home. A drugs search ­warrant was granted.”
Morawski also had £5000 cash under a mattress.
Morawski, a prisoner at Perth, admitted three charges of being concerned in the supply of cannabis, amphetamines and ecstasy between January 31 and July 31 this year.
Sheriff Gillian Wade deferred sentence but told Morawski he “should be in no doubt” he would be facing a lengthy prison term.
