
# [Update: Nokia 9 PureView too] Android 10 internal beta leaks for the Nokia 6.1, 6.1 Plus, 7 Plus, and 7.1

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:20:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/android-10-internal-beta-leaks-nokia-6-7-1-plus/)


        Update (11/05/19 @ 7:20 AM ET): Android 10 internal beta has also leaked for the Nokia 9 PureView. Scroll to the bottom for more information. The article as published on October 14, 2019, is preserved as below.
      
Following the recent rollout of Android 10 on the Nokia 8.1, HMD Global is now prepping up to release the update for other devices in its lineup. The company had previously shared the Android 10 update roadmap for its devices, with the Nokia 7.1 set to receive the update in Q4 2019. Now, leaked beta builds suggest that updates for the Nokia 6.1, Nokia 6.1 Plus, and Nokia 7 Plus are also on their way.
XDA Senior Member hikari_calyx recently shared the leaked beta builds of all the four devices, along with detailed instructions on how you can flash them on your phone. Since these are internal beta builds, it’s safe to assume that you might encounter some unforeseen bugs if you choose to flash them on your phone. It’s also worth noting that you’ll need an unlocked bootloader to flash these builds. In case you do not have an unlocked bootloader, you will face issues while rolling back to the stable channel in the future.
Android 10 on Nokia devices introduces a couple of new features for users. A changelog issued for the Nokia 8.1 reveals that the update includes new gesture navigations, a smart reply feature, in-depth privacy controls, and more. Phones with the new update will also receive a new Focus mode which will block out distracting apps to help you focus on what’s important. Additionally, Nokia has added the Family link feature within Google’s Digital Wellbeing to help parents set digital ground rules for the family. Other than the Focus mode, all of the new features are available in the latest stable update for the Nokia 8.1.
As of now, we aren’t sure when the Android 10 builds will reach the open beta channel. The update roadmap shared earlier suggests that the Nokia 6.1, Nokia 6.1 Plus and Nokia 7 Plus will receive stable updates in Q1 2020. However, considering the fact that their beta builds have already reached internal testing, it’s quite possible that the company might release the stable builds earlier than expected.
If you want to try out these internal builds, follow along on the links below!

        
          Download internal Android 10 build for the Nokia 7.1
        
      

        
          Download internal Android 10 build for the Nokia 7 Plus
        
      

        
          Download internal Android 10 build for the Nokia 6.1
        
      

        
          Download internal Android 10 build for the Nokia 6.1 Plus
        
      

        Attached screenshots are from the Nokia 6.1 Plus and come courtesy of @RaghuVarma on Telegram.
      
XDA Senior Member hikari_calyx has now shared an Android 10 internal beta for the Nokia 9 PureView too.
You can try out this internal build using the files and instructions mentioned in the thread linked below:

        
          Download internal Android 10 build for the Nokia 9 PureView
        
      
