
# Chamber of Commerce Backs Farmworker Amnesty but Wants More Migrants and Lower Wages

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:35:54+00:00**

Author: **Neil Munro**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/05/chamber-commerce-farmworker-amnesty-more-migrants-lower-wages/)

“The proposed prevailing wage levels for temporary agricultural workers … should be more responsive to market needs,” the business group said in an October 30 letter.
The pending legislation provides a gradual amnesty for the resident population of 500,000-plus illegal migrants who accept low-wage jobs at farms, meat-processing slaughterhouses, and food canneries. Democrats want the amnesty to spur their political support, but any amnesty would allow the industry’s labor force to take up their green cards and get jobs in urban areas.
So the bill creates a replacement workforce by streamlining the unlimited inflow of H-2A visa workers and by capping the wages paid to those imported visa workers.
The migrants’ wages are to be capped at state or federal minimum wages — unless unions can bargain for a better deal — or by agency officials. This arrangement between Congress and employers effectively federalizes the future agricultural workforce, and so it denies American farmworkers — and their children — the chance to win higher wages amid normal labor shortages.
The resulting flood of low-wage H-2A migrants is likely to displace the roughly half-million American employees who work in the agriculture sector, so further shriveling the economic health of the nation’s agricultural districts.
The bill acknowledges the likely damaging impact of unlimited H-2A visa workers on Americans, saying on page 64 that government officials should study the economic impact and report back to Congress:
But the bill does not mandate a fix for the likely damage to wages and careers of Americans, even though it is sponsored by 20 GOP legislators and 24 Democrats.
That is bad news for agriculture regions of the United States, most of which have been falling behind as Democratic-run urban districts gain in wages and wealth. In December 2018, Breitbart News reported:
