
# Twitter reacts to Rohit Sharma brutally trolling Rishabh Pant on National TV

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:21:55+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/twitter-reacts-to-rohit-sharma-brutally-trolling-rishabh-pant-on-national-tv?utm_medium=rss)


        Rishabh Pant has endured a tough time, as would anyone in his place, to fill the huge shoes that MS Dhoni seems to have vacated. After a couple of “silly mistakes”, Pant found himself being trolled by stand-in skipper Rohit Sharma in the middle of the field with the entire nation watching on.
      
Pant’s night in Rajkot got off to a horror start when he collected a ball in front of the stumps and instead of inflicting a simple stumping, gave away a free hit. Things didn’t get any better from then on as his glovework left a lot to be desired. On a warm night in Rajkot, Pant couldn’t catch a cold. Rohit Sharma decided to take things into his own hands and take some pressure of his young keeper with the pressure piling on. And he did it in the most unique way possible. 
On the fourth ball of the 16th over - one ball after Pant had conceded an extra run - Afif Hossain played a Deepak Chahar ball to wide long on. With the ball lacking any serious pace, Rohit cleaned it up easily and decided to lighten the mood. The Indian skipper threw the ball way up in the air so as to not let it bounce, thereby allowing Pant to collect it comfortably. 
To be fair, it did work as both the skipper and the keeper exchanged smiles as India tried to gain back some control in the game. The Twitteratti were quick to realize what had happened and jumped on to provide some “insights”.

        This is how it happened!
      
