
# Jamie Carragher rant against VAR in full as Liverpool legend calls for system to be scrapped

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:26:25+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jamie-carragher-rant-against-var-20805034)

Jamie Carragher has finally admitted that he wants VAR to be scrapped in the Premier League after another weekend of controversies with the technology.
Liverpool legend Carragher made his impassioned, and well structured, reasoning against the official's review system after Everton's draw with Tottenham at Goodison Park.
During that match, Son Heung-min had a penalty call turned down despite there appearing to be contact, an elbow from Andre Gomes on Son looked into, a Dele Alli hand-ball in his own box which took three minutes before deciding against a spot kick but a decision from on-field ref Martin Atkinson to upgrade a yellow card to red, for Son, not official referred.
Those came on the back of Roberto Firmino having a goal ruled out for offside due to his arm-pit being closer to the goal that Tyrone Mings in Liverpool's 2-1 victory over Aston Villa.
In Chelsea's clash with Watford , Frank Lampard was left "so, so surprised" after VAR awarded the Hornets a penalty after Gerard Deulofeu was tripped by Jorginho.
VAR was brought into the Premier League at the start of this season and looks at every goal, penalty decisions, direct red cards and mistaken identity.
Carragher insisted to Sky Sports he defended the system at the beginning of the campaign but no longer thinks it is a good idea.
"I am seen as someone who is pro-VAR in terms of how I spoke about it at the start of the season and how I reacted to things on social media.
"I was never pro-VAR, what I was was that I felt like it should have been given a chance and in some ways I feel like I was fighting for VAR because I felt that at the start so many people were negative about it before it had been given a chance.
"VAR has been brought in to help our game. When I say our game it isn't just about the players, it is supporters, pundits and owners.
"We have the best game in the world but how can be make it better and change with the times? That's why I was supporting it. Can we make football better and never stand still while other sports are doing it.
"I'm now looking at it and thinking I can't argue for it anymore.
"I am actually tired about listening to people complain about it and I have nothing to come back to them with.
"The whole point of VAR is to help referees and we speak so often in the job I have speaking about referees and decisions.
"We're now spending double or triple that amount of time talking about decisions so it hasn't done what it was brought in to do.
"I didn't want refs to look at the monitors on the side of the pitch. I wanted someone cold in Stockley Park or wherever they may be.
"The referee has made his decision and then runs over there with the crowd screaming and shouting. He is hot and bothered. He's looking at it again with two sets of benches in his ear about it.
"So I don't think that will cure it.
"I think there was an incident when this all started in the FA Cup where West Brom beat Liverpool where minutes were added on because the referee was going to the side of the pitch.
"Maybe we have to try something.
"I'm at the stage now where I don't want VAR - and I can't believe I'm saying that."
