
# Nokia Smart TVs Are on the Way – Except They Won't Be Made by Nokia

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:30:55+00:00**

Author: **Shabana Arif**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/nokia-smart-tv/)

Indian retailer Flipkart announced that it'll be stocking Nokia smart TVs but it's unlikely we'll see them in the west.
The TVs won't actually be made by Nokia or its parent company, HMD Global, but by Harmon, with audio courtesy of JBL. Flipkart will be paying to have the Nokia brand slapped on the telly.
It looks like the TVs won't be launching outside of India, unlike the OnePlus TV, which launched in India last month but will be winging its way to the west eventually.
“We are delighted that Flipkart, the leading e-commerce company in the country, will bring the first-ever Nokia branded Smart TVs to India," said Vipul Mehrotra, VP of Nokia Brand Partnerships. "Today marks the start of an exciting new chapter for the Nokia brand in a new category. And where better to start than in India, where our brand has been trusted for quality, design and reliability.
"Flipkart’s understanding of the needs and behaviors of Indian consumers, and the power of its reach, will help it make Nokia branded Smart TVs accessible and affordable to many."
The price and launch date of the Nokia TV hasn't been announce just yet, nor have the size options, or any pertinent details really - not that it's relevant to us because it seems that we're never going to get it anyway. [Trusted Reviews]

        Feature image credit: Unsplash
      
