
# Liam Payne says being in the spotlight 'nearly killed' him in frank chat

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:11:51+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/liam-payne-opens-up-how-20820882)

Liam Payne has spoken openly about his struggles with fame - and how it "nearly killed" him.
The former One Direction singer gets candid about mental health in his new series for Sky, which he does with SAS man Ant Middleton.
Ant Middleton and Liam Payne: Straight Talking will see the two chat without filters about mental health struggles, with Liam telling pal Ant that he's had his difficulties with life in the public eye.
"For some certain circumstances I'm quite lucky to be here still," the 26 year old told Ant, "There are times when that level of loneliness and people getting into you every day, it's like, 'When will this end?' That's almost nearly killed me a couple of times."
Asked if he'd considered acting on those thoughts, Liam said: "Yeah, when I've been in a bad place.
"It's one hundred per cent, you know? There's no point denying it - it's definitely been on the menu a couple of times in my life."
Liam found fame aged 16, when he performed on the X Factor and was soon put into the boy band One Direction alongside Harry Styles, Zayn Malik, Louis Tomlinson and Niall Horan.
He explained to Ant how being so open about his struggles helped him cope: "There's only one thing you control within that situation.
"Just do today. Get on with that bit and then there'll be another hurdle in a few months, a few weeks or maybe even the next day."
Liam is now dad to little Bear, who he shares with pop goddess Cheryl.
They're now split, but co-parent and are on good terms.
During a recent appearance on The Jonathan Ross Show, Liam gushed of his ex: "She's a fantastic mum, I can't complain, she's absolutely awesome.
"She doesn't get on to me when I'm out working, doing different things, she understands. We do the very same job so it's not that different for us but yeah, she's awesome."
