
# ‘WWE 2K20’ Patch 1.02 Notes: New Update Addresses Gameplay, Creation And More

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/01/wwe-2k20-patch-102-notes-new-update-addresses-gameplay-creation-and-more/)

The long-awaited patch for WWE 2K20 has been released on PS4, Xbox One and PC on Friday morning. The patch is designed to begin the work of repairing what has been one of the buggiest launches in franchise history. Per 2K, “the patch addresses reported concerns regarding the following issues and we expect to roll out additional patches in the near future to address additional concerns:”
• Gameplay and Controls
• Graphics and Clipping 
• Hair Physics
• Hit detection and aiming
• Interactions with tables, ladders, steel steps, and other objects
• Referee actions
• Onscreen button prompts
• Characters “warping” or moving unnaturally around the arena
• Crashes and Freezing
• Image downloads
• Entrances and attires
• Universe mode editing and saving
• Custom and Created Superstars and creation modes
• Commentary and sound effects
• Online Stability, matchmaking, desyncs, and lag
2K also released a blog with the patch notes to help address their fan base. I’ll be spending some time going over the impact of the update through the weekend as well as gathering some information from the WWE 2K community to gauge the impact.
WWE 2K20 released on October 22, and it didn’t take long for the game’s community to launch a #FixWWE2K20 hashtag. Several videos and images of glitches and bugs began to circulate on the internet and it was clear changes needed to be made.
Hopefully this update cures most of what ails the game. However, the note from 2K does say there will be future patches. So I wouldn’t expect this update to fix everything.
