
# Your letters for Nov. 2

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:00:37+00:00**

Author: **Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/letters/your-letters-for-nov-2-2)


        Re: City seeks public input on push to lower speed limit
      
The City is considering lowering speed limits on residential roads to reduce pedestrian-involved collisions, injuries and fatalities. Before the city spends millions of dollars on studies and new speed limit signs, it should consider the cause of the issue — unlawful driver behaviour.
Speeding, not using turn signals, failing to fully stop at stop signs, especially if turning right, not yielding the right of way when appropriate, and distracted driving; these dangerous behaviours are common on our roads. Improving driver behaviour through enforcement and (re) education is the solution.
Redirect traffic enforcement into residential areas where the concern for pedestrian safety is greatest. In co-operation with the province, establish traffic law recertification as part of the driver’s licence renewal process to provide drivers with a short traffic law refresher, and as a means to (re) educate drivers on new and important traffic related information.

        Daniel McLeod, Calgary
      
I quit voting for Conservatives long ago because many of them have to be dragged kicking and screaming into the light on such issues as protecting gay youth or the environment, but also due to their heartless, myopic economic policies.
Yes, fiscal prudence is necessary, however, the only trick the UCP seem to have is cutting services to the most vulnerable while rewarding corporations with tax breaks while hoping for oil prices to go up. Relying solely on a rebound in resource revenue is like those who win the lottery, lose it all and then hope for another win. It is not a logical way to develop long-term stability, as pointed out by many economists.
As for raising taxes by de-indexing benefits — which Kenney opposed federally — for AISH and seniors, if I were to rob the blind and old, people would be rightly appalled, but bury such theft in an omnibus bill, no one cares.

        Bruce A. McFaul, Calgary
      
At $50 USD a barrel, the large oil companies have no problem making money. When the prices were ridiculous, a lot of small players got into the game and, when prices crashed, they abandoned wells. We don’t need those types around.
There have been billions of dollars invested in oil and gas development elsewhere in the last several years (particularly in the U.S.) while investment has fled from Canada. Some corporations divested themselves from Alberta during the NDP reign and were reluctant to invest new money as well. The sad part is companies spent that money elsewhere and those dollars are gone.
The real cause of our economic woes is homegrown. What company would risk investment in a country (or province) where those very corporations are publicly demonized by more than one party or level of government? What company would invest in an industry that is open to constant court challenges and no progress has been made on projects started years ago? Where some of the public are vocally against pipelines or the industry as a whole? When there are more friendly places to invest and projects are not hamstrung (legally or socially), the money will go there.

        Ken Urkosky, Airdrie
      
