
# Roy Keane makes acting debut with cameo role in new series of Young Offenders

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:41:52+00:00**

Author: **Ned Keating**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/roy-keane-makes-acting-debut-20808616)

Roy Keane has been a regular on TV as a pundit since retiring from football in 2006, but it seems the 48-year-old is keen to branch out into other areas of entertainment.
The former Manchester United skipper has been a huge hit as part of Sky Sports' Premier League coverage so far this season, with his withering putdowns sending watching fans into hysterics.
The ex- Republic of Ireland midfielder has been outspoken on former club United's current malaise, while he has also not been shy in giving his views on the likes of Dele Alli .
And though he has been well received as a pundit, it looks like there could be a career move on the cards for Keane after a hilarious cameo appearance in a sitcom.
The former Celtic man can be seen in a brief scene from episode four of the second season of the BBC Three show 'Young Offenders'.
The comedy is set in Keane's native Cork and follows the escapades of young criminals Conor MacSweeney and Jock O'Keefe.
In episode four, the pair have been selling food from a chip van outside of a Cork City match when Keane approaches them following the game.
After Jock queries who the customer is, Keane is roundly told by the pair to vacate the area, though with a slightly stronger turn of phrase.
It was a brilliantly funny first foray into acting for the 48-year-old, though of course the former midfield hard man is not the first ex-United star to try his luck in the industry.
Keane's former Red Devils colleague Eric Cantona has enjoyed a storied career in film and television since retiring from football in 1997.
The French forward made his acting debut in 1995 and has since gone on to appear in such hits as 'Looking for Eric' and 'The Salvation'.
Who knows, maybe one day Keane and Cantona will star alongside each other...
