
# Shoppers threaten to boycott Asda over staff contract row

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:21:11+00:00**

Author: **Katie Brooks, Saffron Otter, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/katie-brooks/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/shoppers-threaten-boycott-asda-over-17213643)

Shoppers have expressed their concern after a row erupted online when a worker claimed he was sacked as he "refused to sign a new contract".
Duncan Carson posted on Twitter how he allegedly lost his job this weekend after 13 years working as a baker at Asda as he took to social media to share his story.
He described the contract as "agreeing to work whatever days, hours and bank holidays that suits them that week" - something that Asda says "is not true" - and he said he was "not asked, but told" to sign it.
The ex-baker's tweet has since accumulated over 2,000 retweets and more than 3,000 likes, resulting in shoppers wanting to boycott the retailer, reports the Manchester Evening News .
"I don’t know anyone working for Asda but I've decided to boycott them. It’s disgusting treating people like this!" said one Twitter user.
Another said they'll "never" shop there again over the treatment of their staff.
The union predicted last week that up to 12,000 workers would not agree to the new contract , according to  Retail Gazette.
However an Asda spokesperson today told the M.E.N that "fewer than 300 colleagues" are yet to sign the contract and they have written to those individuals.
The supermarket has also extended the deadline for signing contracts "a little longer" to November 10, a spokesman said: "Colleagues can still turn up to work, but anybody working after Saturday night will be doing so on the new terms, including the increased pay rate of £9 per hour, as these will be the only terms that exist in Asda.
"We have been absolutely clear throughout this process that we don't want any of our colleagues to leave us and have worked extensively with them and union representatives to understand and address any concerns.
"The overwhelming majority have chosen to move to this new contract, which represents an £80 million investment in pay for over 100,000 colleagues and ensures the same terms and conditions apply - which is fairer to all our colleagues.
"We understand people have responsibilities outside of work and we will always help them to balance these with their work life.
"Despite extensive engagement throughout this process it is disappointing that there has been some misinformation from external parties to our colleagues.
"We do not want anyone to leave due to misinformation, particularly in these challenging economic times, so once the notice period ends on Saturday, we will write to those colleagues who are still undecided - currently in the hundreds but continuing to drop - offering them the opportunity to sign up because we don't want any colleague to make a decision to leave and then regret it.
"Change is never easy, but we are determined that Asda remains a sustainable business for its customers and colleagues - now and in the future."
