
# Hong Leong Assurance Launches HLA FiT 2 Protect Disability Protection Plan

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:59:19+00:00**

Author: **Nazuin Zulaikha Kamarulzaman**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/hong-leong-assurance-launches-hla-fit-2-protect-disability-protection-plan)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 5): Hong Leong Assurance (HLA) has launched its HLA fit 2 Protect, a disability protection plan that enables its policyholders to pay less for more coverage.
In a recent statement, HLA said the disability protection plan allows policyholders to enjoy an extensive disability protection at affordable premiums to continue living post disability.
It said that for example, individuals aged 24 only need to pay a fixed premium of RM 100 per month with no increase for 10 years to enjoy a RM 1.5 million disability coverage and RM 500,000 in death benefit, adding that different age groups may enjoy different coverages.
HLA said the plan is catered to a wide range of market audience from ages 20- 60, while pointing out that it is an ideal insurance plan to ease the financial burden of policyholders and gets them back on track after disability coverage up to RM 1.5 million in the form of a Lump Sum Payment and Disability Income for 10 years
On top of the disability benefit, the plan also pays out the sum assured upon death prior to any covered disability claim.
“We are always committed in providing great value financial protection solutions that meet the evolving needs of our customers.”
“We want to ensure our policy holders get the best coverage but pay less especially in the current economic environment,” it said.
HLA said the plan is designed to protect against any 1 of the 11 disabilities covered.
Among the 11 are loss of use of both limbs, loss of sight in both eyes, loss of use of one limb and loss of sight in one eye, Apallic Syndrome, Kidney Failure, Coma, Parkinson’s disease, Muscular Dystrophy, Spine Injury, Paralysis of Limbs and Terminal Illness.
HLA said no medical check-ups are required for the policyholders to sign up for the plan and policyholders will receive a complimentary fitness tracker.
“All participants need to do is just answer a simple health questionnaire and they are good to go,” HLA said.
Policyholders will need to download the HLA FiT app and connect the fitness tracker to enable tracking of daily fitness activities.
The lower the FiT age, the more points policyholders accumulate which allows them to redeem rewards.
