
# Man Utd Cruise Into Europa Knockout Stages

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:51:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/manchester-united/uefa-europa-league-report-manchester-united-v-partizan-07-november-2019/667009)


        Europa League
      
Result: Manchester United 3-0 Partizan Belgrade
Date: 07 November 2019
Venue: Old Trafford
Manchester United cruised into the knockout stages of the UEFA Europa League with a comfortable 3-0 win over Partizan Belgrade on Thursday night.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer named a strong side that included Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford up top, while Juan Mata and Marcos Rojo were also recalled to the United line-up.
The Red Devils dominated from the onset, but they should have been at least three goals ahead as Rashford squandered a few golden opportunities in the opening 15 minutes.
The deadlock was eventually broken on 22 minutes as Rashford's pass found the young Mason Greenwood, who cut onto his left before drilling the ball home from six-yards out.
Martial managed to grab the home side's second goal 10 minutes later after skipping past two defenders before poking the ball beyond the advancing Vladimir Stojkovic.
Solskjaer's troops picked up from where they left off in the first as Ashley Young turned provider to pick out Rashford, who rifled the ball into the back of the net from 10-yards out.
Partizan, meanwhile, struggled to carve out any openings of their own as United shot-stopper Sergio Romero barely had a save to make for most of the evening.
United had a bit of a scar with 15 minutes remaining as the club's Player of the Month for October, Scott McTominay, picked up an injury and hobbled off the pitch.
Nevertheless, the Red Devils were able to see out the closing stages with relative ease to book their spot in the last 32 with two games to spare.
