
# KSI and Logan Paul clash at public workout as YouTube stars close in on rematch

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:21:56+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/ksi-logan-paul-clash-public-20821426)

As the sun set on Venice Beach, the question which lingered was whether this weekend will herald a new dawn in boxing.
Or whether two YouTube stars fighting as professionals is nothing but a cash grab by all involved.
There was certainly a bemused look on the faces of the eclectic bunch who had gathered along this stretch of California’s coast.
And what genuine stars of the sport - and world champions to boot - Billy Joe Saunders and Devin Haney thought is anyone’s guess.
But a good half hour after the latter left the ring, Logan Paul climbed through the ropes in front of a smattering of lingering fans.
Bizarrely he didn’t pull on his gloves, instead doing laps of the ring, skipping and shadow  boxing as his trainer, former heavyweight world champion Shannon Briggs, told him which camera lens to look into next.
 
Eventually the waiting KSI lost his patience and climbed up on to the ring apron and beckoned over his rival.
And so ensued the classic fight-week exchange designed only to sell tickets and drive subscriptions and pay-per-view buys.
“KSI, my friend,” said Paul. “You have four days to bake the cake.
“Go and do something fun, because I’m going to end you forever, my friend.”
 
As Paul left the ring, KSI - real name Olajide William Olatunji - had a heated exchange with Briggs before entering the ring.
He at least gloved up and threw some punches, although you’d find better technique at any one of the dozen local keep fit gyms.
Whatever you make of it, in three days the biggest fight of the weekend will be between two social media stars with two white-collar bouts between them.
It’s boxing, but not as we know it.
