
# The seven best restaurants for pasta in Birmingham

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Sanjeeta Bains, https://www.facebook.com/sanjeetabainsbm/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/food-drink-news/seven-best-restaurants-pasta-birmingham-17147066)

Pizza has a lot of fans in Brum, with some cool new pizzeria openings in the city recently.
But let's not forget there is another cracking Italian carb classic - pasta.
Now winter is officially here, what better way of warming up than diving into a plate of comforting carbonara, seafood linguine, spaghetti alla puttanesca,  or even good spag bol.
Here are a selection of our favourite places in Birmingham for pasta - and they are not all Italian!
Have we missed your favourite? Let us know in the comments below.
Unsurprisingly Pasta Di Piazza, offers a lot of pasta!  
This spacious trattoria style restaurant situated in St Paul's Square has a 15 pasta options on the menu.  
Dishes include Fettucine con pollo Limone - pieces of chicken lemon sauce, served with peas, asparagus and fettuccine pasta,  spaghetti with traditional bolognese sauce and homemade lasagne al forno - layers of spinach pasta with bolognese and béchamel sauce baked with parmesan and mozzarella.

        11 Brook Street, B3 1SA
      

         
      
If you are looking for a really authentic Italian pasta experience, then look no further.
Laghi's serves up a carbonara pasta like no other!
The restaurant owned by Luca Laghi, prides itself on serving the most authentic carbonara you will find in Brum. This is Roman style carbonara made with rigatoni pasta, eggs, pecorino cheese,  Guanciale (cured pig cheek) and peppercorn.
Or how about black ravioli stuffed with carb and mascarpone, smoked provola fondue with homemade onion jam?
On our visit we loved their linguine with monkfish - beautifully cooked al dente pasta with a classic fresh tomato and basil sauce.
The pasta here is all hand made on site by chefs including Luca's mum.  Bellissimo.

        22-24 Islington Row Middleway, Edgbaston B15 1LD
      
Award-winning Fumo cocktail bar and restaurant specialises in 'ciccheti' (Venetian-style tapas). Among our ciccheti favourites is their incredible gnocchi gorgonzola in a baked parmesan basket. So good, you may want to order two plates - they are tapas style portions after all.
Other pasta small plates include lasagne al forno -  layers of pasta with slow cooked beef ragu, ravioli lobster with lobster bisque and prawns, and spinach and ricotta ravioli - with pachino tomatoes. 
This is the place for a pasta party - or any kind of party.

        1 Waterloo Street, B2 5PG
      
We know this is a steak place not an Italian gaff. But trust us, their Autumn Winter menu includes a killer tagliatelle.
Wild Mushroom Tagliatelle -  Eyrngii & enoki mushrooms, torrontés white wine cream, tarragon and raw yolk is worth a visit just for this alone!
Of course there is a choice of fabulous steaks available, as well as other mains including Argentine beef burger with Monterey Jack cheese, bacon, onion and peppered mayo with chips.
And the  swanky surroundings make this a sensational dining experience - whatever you order. Gaucho offers a reasonably priced set lunch menu to find our more go here.

        55 Colmore Row, B3 2AA
      

         
      
This stunning eatery is owned by Michelin starred chef Aktar Islam who cooks at Opheem over the road.
Legna - which is Italian for 'firewood' - serves up a super modern fine dining take on Italian food, focusing on high quality ingredients. 
The 'Primi' first dishes menu section features pasta dishes include beef & wild boar ragu, pappardelle, vintage parmesan and cured pork, fennel and sage butter ravioli. 
The website states: "All pasta is made in house by hand.
"We also recommend eating our pasta dishes in the traditional manner between starters and mains."

        8 Fleet St, Summer Row, B3 1JH
      

         
      
Not to be confused with the former restaurant in Paradise Place, this is a family-run place which serves very well-crafted Italian dishes.  Like Pasta Di Piazza, this place  has an extensive pasta menu.   
Dishes include Linguine Alle Cozze - linguine with fresh mussels, garlic, chilli, white wine and parsley and Pennette All' Arrabiata - and penne pasta in a spicy rich tomato sauce with garlic, chilli and parsley. 

        5a Ethel Street B2 4BG.
      

         
      
 
Gusto, housed inside The Grand on Colmore Row - is "inspired by the traditional grand cafes of Europe" and serves up some tasty choices for pasta fans.
Enjoy Rigatoni Primavera with carrots, spring greens, pine nuts in a creamy sauce, Slow-Cooked Pork & Tomato Gnocchi - topped with their "3-meat, 5-hour slow cooked ragu" Rigatoni Arrabbiata - with tomato, chilli and fresh basil.
All served up in a very cosy welcoming setting.

        10 Colmore Row, B3 2QD
      
