
# Samsung to layoff massively in China - Compresses 11 branches to five -

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:59:26+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/samsung-to-layoff-massively-in-china-compresses-11-branches-to-five/)

Samsung to layoff massively in China – Compresses 11 branches to five1 (20%) 1 vote
According to recent reports out of China, Samsung China will lay off more than one-third of its employees. Its 11 branches and offices in the country will eventually be merged into five. According to the report from insiders, the was a briefing this afternoon to this effect. The company is currently working on a layoff plan, and the mobile phone business will be the hardest hit. The layoffs will strongly affect its mobile phone business sales and marketing personnel. “There are also other departments, the mobile phone business staff are top of the list,” The source said.
In September this year, after closing the last Chinese mobile phone factory in Huizhou, The South Korean manufacturer basically stopped the production of mobile phone products in China. According to previous reports from South Korean media, Samsung Electronics plans to entrust 20% of its 300 million smartphones, or 60 million GalaxyM and Galaxy A series phones, to Chinese foundries for production, and use ODM (Original Design Manufacturer) form.
In the second half of 2018, Samsung mobile phones accelerated its pace in the Chinese market. At the end of 2018, the president of Samsung Electronics Greater China, Quan Guixian, emphasized that Samsung’s mobile phone returning to the Chinese battlefield. However, after a year, the share of Samsung mobile phones in the Chinese market is still hovering around 1%. This is obviously a bad signal for the company. 

        Via
      
