
# Tomi Lahren responds to left-wing backlash over her AOC Halloween costume: 'Calm down'

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:44:50+00:00**

Author: **Yael Halon**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/media/tomi-lahren-responds-to-backlash-over-aoc-halloween-costume-calm-down)

Fox Nation host Tomi Lahren urged everyone to take a deep breath after many on the left were quick to criticize the host for her Halloween costume depicting so-called 'Squad' member, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. D-N.Y.
"The crybabies out there triggered by my Halloween costume need to calm down," said Lahren.
Discussing her costume in a recent episode of "Final Thoughts," Lahren explained her motivation behind it, and took to social media to share her look with fans.

        
          TOMI LAHREN: BOO TRUMP ALL YOU WANT BUT HE HAS THIS GOING FOR HIM
        
      
“This Halloween, I decided to dress up as the thing that scares me most, the Democratic Dimwit Darling herself,” she wrote on Instagram Thursday. “I'm not afraid of ghouls, ghosts, zombies or political incorrectness. I am far more terrified AOC was actually elected to the United States Congress. Talk about a haunted 'House.'”
Lahren, 27, can be seen wearing a brunette wig, a black blazer, and black-rimmed glasses, holding a folder titled the "Green New Deal -- a nod to the Congresswoman's climate change resolution. Another book, titled "The Communist Manifesto," can also be seen in the photo.
Despite the thousands of likes her photos received, some on the left were quick to mock Lahren for her depiction of AOC, including activist and #MeToo advocate Alyssa Milano, who immediately came to the congresswoman's defense.
