
# LGBT TV characters at all-time high with women outnumbering men

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:45:46+00:00**

Author: **Guardian staff**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2019/nov/07/lgbt-tv-characters-all-time-high-women-outnumbering-men)


        Glaad’s annual report has found that LGBT women now outnumber LGBT men for the first time on broadcast and cable television
      
LGBT characters on the small screen are at an all-time high according to Glaad’s annual study of representation on TV.
According to the Where We Are On TV report, LGBT characters now make up 10.2% of series regular on broadcast shows in the US, which is up 1.4% from last year’s previous record. This equates to 90 out of 879 roles.
For the first time, LGBT women also outnumbered men with 53% to 47% thanks to shows such as Batwoman and Pose. The season has also seen more bisexual and transgender characters as well as those who have HIV/Aids.
There was also an increase of racial diversity for LGBT characters in both broadcast and television but on streaming, there was a 7% drop from last year.
“Last year, Glaad called on the television industry to increase the number of LGBTQ characters and more accurately reflect the world we live in, and they responded by exceeding this challenge,” said Sarah Kate Ellis, president and CEO of Glaad. “At a time when the cultural climate is growing increasingly divisive, increased representation of LGBTQ stories and characters on television is especially critical to advance LGBTQ acceptance.”
For the third year, the report also included asexual characters but representation is deemed insignificant with Aaron Paul’s Todd Chavez on Netflix’s Bojack Horseman the only one.
The overall number of LGBT characters on TV could well increase over the next year with shows such as The L Word reboot, Lena Waithe’s sitcom Twenties and comedy Work in Progress starring gay comic Abby McEnany still to premiere.
