
# Scottish drugs rehab centre treats hundreds of addicts every year but most of them are Dutch

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark McGivern, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/mark-mcgivern/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/scottish-drugs-rehab-centre-treats-20792060)

The founder of a Scottish rehab hospital has questioned why the NHS has abandoned sending Scots patients there while the Netherlands sends hundreds of addicts every year.
Peter McCann, of Castle Craig Hospital, in Peeblesshire, said the Dutch see his facility as life-saving and invest millions in it while Scotland shuns it – despite having 10 times as many drug deaths.
McCann contends his adoption of the abstinence-based Minnesota Model of treatment has become unfashionable and neglected amid the rise of harm-reduction methods, mainly methadone programmes.
And he maintains Scotland should be using every recovery measure on offer while in the midst of a drug deaths emergency.
 
Scotland’s public health minister Joe FitzPatrick visited Castle Craig two months ago but nothing has followed from the visit. He and the Scottish drug deaths taskforce have come under scrutiny amid the growing crisis.
Most recent figures by the European Monitoring Service for Drugs and Drug Addiction showing the Netherlands had 22 annual deaths per million of adult population, compared to Scotland’s 213 last year.
But Castle Craig has taken in about 200 Dutch patients in the past year, with a handful of Scots being funded.
McCann hit out at “horrendous” red tape in Scotland which makes it nigh-on impossible to get urgent help to the most vulnerable people.
And he questioned why his services would not be taken up at a time when experts agree that getting more people into a full range of treatment programmes is a top priority.
McCann said: “The minister Joe FitzPatrick came to visit us a couple of months ago and he was very open and he said there might be a route to fund patients to come to us.
“But I suppose his committee are still deliberating because we haven’t heard from him since.”
McCann said it was formerly a simple process to get patients admitted but it now takes months, by which time they could easily be dead.
He said: “The red tape in Scotland  to get into a place like ours is horrendous. In the old days, the doctor used to check with the health board and if it was OK with them for funding, the patient would be in the next day.
“Now, the doctor has to refer the patient to a drug worker who is part of the Alcohol and Drug Partnership for the areas.
“Then the patient has to see a psychiatrist and that can be a three month wait. Then it has to go back to a committee for approval and the whole thing is, quite frankly, a mess.
“Of course, by the nature of the illness, the patient just tends to give up. It is essential,when a person makes a decision to seek treatment and is suitable for it, you get them in right away.”
 
Some experts are wary of abstinence programmes as they believe they pose a high risk of relapse and have higher potential for overdoses as an outcome, particularly when patients return to high-risk living environments.
But McCann is frustrated at the huge influence of the harm reduction lobby, which he claims has led to huge numbers of people in Scotland “loaded up” on methadone for many years.
He said: “We can’t keep driving more and more people towards a lifetime on methadone in the way we do.”
McCann lamented the change in academic attitudes to drugs treatments.
He said: “At one stage, we were getting 250 NHS patients a year. Then they started to dwindle as the Government moved towards care in the community and we had to build up our patient lines.
“But the Dutch love us and they now fill the gap left by the NHS.”
