
# When celebrities fight... successfully?

Published at: **2019-11-07T02:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Carolyn Lee Adams**

Original: [Bloody Elbow](https://www.bloodyelbow.com/2019/11/6/20951660/when-celebrities-fight-paul-logan-ksi-william-sapp-beast-japan-pride-k1-akebono-kickboxing)

In less than a week, YouTube sensations KSI ‘The Nightmare’ and Logan ‘The Maverick’ Paul will fight once again, this time at the Staples Center in Los Angeles. Their first boxing match saw it end in a draw, but many predict the tables will be turned in the rematch—with Logan Paul currently the betting favorite. More surprisingly, however, was that their 2018 bout was a financial success—providing ample motivation to get both men back into the ring. While celebrity boxing is dominated by sad case stories (Manute Bol vs. William ‘Refrigerator’ Perry, anyone?) celebrity fighting is an endeavor that can prove lucrative.
And to that end, surprisingly, it may be that nobody has done it better than Bob Sapp.
A third round draft pick for the Bears in 1997, Sapp’s NFL career quickly petered out—leaving the big man without a living. Working at a funeral home, Sapp moved coffins to make ends meet. In 2001, he briefly wrestled with NWA Wildside, before signing with the WCW. There he developed a character called, ‘The Beast.’ Shortly thereafter, unfortunately, the WCW was purchased by the WWF—ending Sapp’s tenure with the company. However, his move to pro wrestling led Sapp to a fight against Refrigerator Perry on FX’s Toughman Competition. Sapp won, but more importantly he gained the attention of Kazuyoshi ishii, founder of K-1. Ishii brought Sapp to Japan, and the nation fell in love with all 380 pounds of him.
