
# Xiaomi products are officially coming to Sweden on Nov 13 - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:28:49+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/xiaomi-products-are-officially-coming-to-sweden/)

Xiaomi products are officially coming to Sweden on Nov 134.3 (86.67%) 3 votes
China’s Xiaomi looks set to extend its smartphones, and other product offering to more markets. We reported earlier today that the Chinese brand is mulling foraying into the Japanese market in 2020, and now comes report of its expansion into Sweden.
The company already sells smartphones in India, China, and 20 other countries, and with the planned roll out in China, the figure will be rising to a total of 23. The firm isn’t currently present in the US market, at least not yet.  Talk of devices coming to the US has been around for years but hasn’t materialized, though you can still get Xiaomi smartphones in the market through other means.
Speaking of its launch in Sweden, the brand has now scheduled a launch event for November 13th in Sweden. It will take place in Central Stockholm at 1:00 PM local time.
As it is typical of Xiaomi, the brand is offering its Mi fans the chance to be part of the event and has 100 seats reserved for its core fans. Please remember, spots are limited so first come, first served!. You can express your interest to be part of the event by completing the form here.
We are not sure what exactly the Chinese firm is bringing to the Swedish market, though the event teaser page hints at smart home products, while it also has an image that hints at the Mi Handheld Vacuum Cleaner, Mi Smart Band 4 and Mi Electric Scooter. Of course, the event wouldn’t be complete without a smartphone phone from the company, though we are completely not sure what its first phone for the market could be. Perhaps, the upcoming Mi Note 10, and Mi Note 10 Pro.
