
# Steven Gerrard dismisses claims Porto underestimated Rangers as he targets Ibrox win

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gary Ralston, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gary-ralston/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/steven-gerrard-dismisses-claims-porto-20827280)

Porto proved they were among the very best in Europe last season when they reached the quarter-finals of the Champions League.
Rangers showed they could live with them a fortnight ago as Steven Gerrard claimed the Portuguese put out all they had to offer in the Estadio Do Dragao.
The maturity of the Rangers performance has been acknowledged but a rump of critics have damned the 1-1 draw with faint praise by claiming Porto are a spent force under Sergio Conceicao.
Gerrard is having none of it. He knows Porto, who also reached the last 16 of the Champions League two seasons ago, are the real deal.
He reckons it’s a sign of his own side’s growth in confidence and self-belief at European level – this will be their 26th Europa League tie under Gerrard in 17 months – that has kept them in the frame for the last 32.
He said: “I don’t think Porto underestimated us a fortnight ago. It was more of a case that our display made them stand up and take notice. If there had been anyone in their camp who didn’t respect us before they certainly will now.
“However, I’m not having this, ‘Now we know what Rangers are all about, we’ll do something differently at Ibrox’ talk because they maxed out against us over there. They gave the best performance they could.
“Maybe when the draw was made the other teams in the group looked at Rangers as a team from which you could take points.
“The opposition, outsiders and certain people in the media would have thought we were the whipping boys, which is good because you use that to your advantage.
“But this match is at our place, our stadium. We need the fans with us right from the off, to get behind us and create a really interesting atmosphere for Porto and then we’ll see where that takes us.
“We expect another tough game because they are a team for whom we have a lot of respect. They have good players who are capable of winning a match if you allow them the time and space they want.
”However we go into this game full of belief and confidence and determined to give our best because we believe that should give us a good chance of getting what we want.
“There’s no doubt we will be positive. We will not set ourselves out in any way, shape or form to sit in and protect ourselves.”
Rangers have never lost in seven competitive games against Portuguese opposition at Ibrox, including five wins against Porto (twice), Boavista, Maritimo and Sporting Lisbon.
But their last two games after five wins on the spin were against Sporting Lisbon, a goalless draw and a 1-1 draw, albeit Rangers progressed on aggregate over two legs on both occasions.
However, a similar result against Porto tonight could prove ruinous to Gerrard’s hope of leading Rangers towards the last 32 as dropped points at home to Spartak Moscow and Villarreal last season ultimately proved costly.
He said: “Possibly dropped points at home cost us if you analyse it in that way but that was last year and this is a different group and a different test.
“The plan was to take something away from the away leg. Obviously we wanted to win the tie over there but the draw and performance was positive for us because it’s put us where we are now, knowing if we take the three points against them at home we’re in a great position.
“It’s difficult to enjoy the build up and actual game as a manager because you are trying to prepare a lot of people and make sure everyone’s at it. There are a lot of small details to make sure the messages are getting across.
“During the game, you obviously try to stay calm within the emotion of it all because you have to be prepared to make big decisions if certain things happen.
“But when you get the right result in Europe it’s the same buzz, being on the side or on the pitch. It’s a fantastic feeling.”
Rangers have reaped the rewards on the road in Europe, particularly in the qualifying rounds, by playing a slick, counter-attacking style.
But there was a greater self-belief in Porto around their ability to stand toe-to-toe with their rivals.
They were especially well served in wide areas and although Gerrard refused to reveal his approach this time around, it’s fair to say players such as Borna Barisic, James Tavernier and Ryan Kent will be handed key roles.
Gerrard said: “Barisic is in top form, no doubt about it. James also had a wonderful chance over there midway through the first half and, with the way we play, we want our full-backs to be really aggressive.
“Kent will take some weeks to return to 100 per cent, but even at 80 or 90 per cent he is still such a threat.”
