
# Meghan Markle Says She Wasn't Seeking the Public's Love, Just Its Attention, in Rare Interview

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:34:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29673379/meghan-markle-public-love-interview/)

Just two weeks after Meghan Markle's ITV interview aired where she candidly spoke about how she is not okay amid the British tabloids' constant attacks on her, the Duchess is speaking out again about her public image.
Meghan gave a rare interview to reporter and friend Bryony Gordon for The Daily Telegraph during her visit to Luminary Bakery's second branch opening this week. Meghan addressed how she wants the public to see her and what her real focus is as a royal: using her voice and platform to amplify those who don't have one and should be heard.
According to Gordon, the Duchess of Sussex isn't seeking people's affection. "She told me that she didn’t want people to love her—she just wanted them to be able to hear her," Gordon wrote.
Meghan spoke during her visit about the myth of instant gratification, especially when it comes to healing. Luminary Bakery, which Meghan featured in the September British Vogue issue she guest-edited, helps empower disadvantaged women, some of whom have escaped abusive relationships and dangerous situations, by offering them training and employment. Meghan spoke and comforted several women during her visit to the bakery's second branch opening in Camden, north London. That's where the topic of an instant fix came up—and the Duchess shared her personal opinion on it.
“I was talking about this with someone the other day,” Meghan said. “We get into this habit of wanting things done immediately nowadays. There’s a culture of instant gratification, of the instant fix. But we aren’t mechanical objects that need to be fixed. You’re a wounded creature that needs to be healed, and that takes time. And that’s what I love about this place. It gives you the support to heal.”
Meghan shared a video and photos from her visit on the SussexRoyal Instagram account.
