
# Facebook Introduces New Company Logo as Part of Its Rebranding Efforts

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:17:30+00:00**

Author: **Bhushan Akolkar**

Original: [Coinspeaker](https://www.coinspeaker.com/facebook-new-logo/)

Social media giant Facebook has unveiled its new company logo as part of the rebranding efforts. Facebook says that the new branding strategy is to bring more clarity and align the goals of its different products and services under one parent company.
In its official announcement, the company said that over the last 15 years, it has made several major acquisitions like Instagram and WhatsApp. Thus, to bring clarity that these services operate under Facebook, it is isolating the Facebook company from the Facebook app. The company statement reads:
The management at Facebook thinks that this re-branding will help customers have a clear distinction between the company and its services. This decision comes just at a time when the company is venturing into new verticals of technological development.
Earlier this year in June 2019, Facebook announced the Calibra network to run its native cryptocurrency Libra. Thus, as the company expands its horizon, it is better for the company to come clean on the services it offers in the marketplace.
In the blog post, Facebook says that it has already started including “from Facebook” within all of its apps. In the coming weeks, the company plans to use the new brand logo more prominently in marketing materials and its products.
Speaking to Bloomberg, Antonio Lucio, Facebook’s chief marketing officer said that the company earlier considered changing the parent company’s name. However, it later withdrew that thought as the company didn’t want to appear to be shedding away from its problems and responsibilities.
Moreover, he acknowledges that Facebook as a company has been going through a rough patch over the last year with several controversies surrounding it. Furthermore, the company has been on the radar of the regulators since the launch of Libra.
Lucio said that the rebranding is more of an effort to color the company with all the goodwill attached to its other popular services like WhatsApp and Instagram.
To combat the menace of fake news and stay away from major controversies, Facebook recently launched its News Tab. However, despite all the trouble going around, Facebook announced impressive figures for its Q3 earnings which led to the FB stock price crossing $190.
