
# Shortlist Announced for the Architectural Photography Awards 2019

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [ArchDaily](https://www.archdaily.com/927949/shortlist-announced-for-the-architectural-photography-awards-2019?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+ArchDaily+%28ArchDaily%29&hl=en)

The Architectural Photography Awards 2019 has revealed its shortlisted images under 6 categories: Exterior, Interior, Sense of Place, Buildings in Use, Mobile, and Portfolio. Sponsored by Sto and supported by the World Architecture Festival (WAF), this year’s lineup was selected from nearly 2000 entries from 42 countries.
In its eighth year, The Architectural Photography Awards “highlights the expertise of architectural photography and aims to focus on the skill and creativity of the photographer”. For each one of the 6 categories, 4 entries were chosen to be part of the shortlist. The Mobile category had a theme focused on Shelter, and the Portfolio category had a theme that revolved around Social Housing.
The photographs will be exhibited at WAF in Amsterdam from 4th - 6th December where visitors can vote for the winners, which will be announced during the WAF Gala Dinner on Friday 6th December. The public vote for the Mobile category is open until 12 pm on Friday 6th December. This year, judges were asked to look beyond the architecture, consider the composition, use of scale and the photographers’ sensitivity to the atmosphere. Read on to discover the 4 selected images from each category.
