
# Liverpool vs Man City: Sadio Mane is ‘living his greatest moments right now’ says teammate Naby Keita

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:20:33+00:00**

Author: **Karl Matchett**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/premier-league/liverpool-news-sadio-mane-naby-keita-premier-league-form-a9191521.html?utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter)

Liverpool head into the weekend clash with Manchester City at the top of the Premier League, with the form of Sadio Mane a key factor in their season so far.
The Reds’ No. 10 has ten goals to his name so far this term, with key recent strikes against Leicester and Aston Villa ensuring the gap between his team and City remains at six points.
Mane is likely to be restored to the starting lineup at Anfield on Sunday, having only been sub in the midweek Champions League win over Genk.
As one of Jurgen Klopp’s most important players, though, he’ll be key to Liverpool’s attempts to extend their lead at the top.
Teammate Naby Keita has been enormously impressed by Mane’s performances this season, and believes he is in the best form of his life.
“He’s living his greatest moments right now, so it’s for him now to remain focused, to do more, and not to lighten up,” said Keita, a close friend of Mane’s.
“I know him to be the kind of person who always wants to achieve more, and he will continue in that way.”
Mane’s form throughout the calendar year has been recognised with his nomination for the Ballon d’Or, along with six other Liverpool team-mates.
Alisson, Virgil van Dijk, Trent Alexander-Arnold, Gini Wijnaldum, Mohamed Salah and Roberto Firmino are all also on the 30-player shortlist.
Keita says each of them have been congratulated by the rest of the squad, but that it will serve as an inspiration to continue improving rather than be considered the summit of their success.
“Of course, I am not only happy for Sadio, but the other Liverpool players too: they are all my team-mates and I am really happy for them. They had an extraordinary season, and hopefully are all set to have another one this season and the one after that too.
“The whole dressing room has congratulated them. It’s an honour for them to be nominated, and it serves to mark your achievements up to that point, but it also serves as a motivation to continue improving and working as well.
“[The nominations], it gives a big boost of pride to each player; in yourself, pride for your family, for your friends.
“But with that boost, it’s up to you to keep on keeping on, right until the end and I am sure they will do exactly that.”
Keita himself has been gradually returning to full fitness after struggling with injury again this season.
He featured for 75 minutes against Genk and could be involved against Man City, though likely off the bench.
