
# How critics become friends: Passion; patience; persistence

Published at: **2019-11-05T02:11:00+00:00**

Author: **Bob Langert**

Original: [GreenBiz](https://www.greenbiz.com/article/how-critics-become-friends-passion-patience-persistence)

My Ted Talk just got published. I am so thrilled. Its theme is how critics can be your friends; how adversaries can be your allies.
One story I tell is about collaborating with Temple Grandin. Animal rights activists recommended that McDonald’s work with her. I had never heard of her at the time (1998) but I soon found out she was world renowned, both as a preeminent animal scientist and as vocal champion for autism, as she was autistic herself. 
Grandin showed me the secret sauce of leading change. She has the remarkable ability to balance passion, patience and persistence. No matter the detours and arduous process that it took to make animal welfare a mainstream priority for the animal industry, she balanced a relentless passion with a remarkable patience backed by tenacious daily persistence.
While others, including me at that time, saw these characteristics as opposing chaotic forces, Grandin practiced them simultaneously. She inspired me to do the same, and the three "Ps" — passion, patience and persistence — became my daily mantra.
Here are some tips to get into that same mental state:
As you embrace the three Ps, you will experience freedom and mental relaxation that will drive your ability to influence others to the next level. The three Ps form a circular path that always comes back to the passion that drives leadership for corporate social change. Passion inspires us to go against the status quo, to be the one in the room to question a current practice and to advocate for environmental and social progress and breakthroughs.

        Adapted from "The Battle To Do Good: Inside McDonald’s Sustainability Journey."
      
