
# Nazi Artefacts Displayed in Argentina's Holocaust Museum Mostly 'Forgeries', German Expert Claims

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:29:58+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/latam/201911011077202360-nazi-artefacts-displayed-in-argentinas-holocaust-museum-mostly-forgeries-german-expert-claims/)


        After discovering a collection of Nazi items in a secret room during an investigation by Interpol in 2017, authorities believed that they may have been brought into the country by top Third Reich officials escaping Europe after WWII.
      
Stephen Klingen, from Munich’s Central Institute for Art History, who was invited by Argentina to analyse a collection of 83 alleged Nazi artefacts, has raised doubts about the legitimacy of the articles, according to the Guardian on Friday.
Klingen concluded that the 83 objects are either complete fakes or original pieces from the 1930s which had swastikas and other Nazi symbols added at a later date.
The Guardian reported than Klingen said in an email that “You can display the objects as counterfeits, but you cannot learn anything about the Nazi era from them”.
Klingen also said he was shocked by the way the Argentinian authorities handled the objects and that he had issued a report to the chief of federal police, Néstor Roncaglia and security minister Patricia Bullrich last year stating unequivocally that the artefacts were almost certainly all forgeries.
He also attached to his 8-page report a 280-page addendum explaining how he reached his conclusions on a piece-by-piece basis.
The skull-measuring device was constructed between 1890 and 1910, according to the report, and therefore has no association with the Nazi period from 1933 - 1945.
The case of the device reads “Amt für Rassenpolitk” (“Office for Racial Politics”), but no official Nazi office functioned under that name, Klingen said.
Klingen explained that the handful of objects which may be genuine include: 3 toolboxes from a Mauser munitions factory, part of a grenade launcher, a swastika encrusted sundial, a Nazi-era newsreel, and various Hitler busts.
“Because we were not allowed to do material investigations, even their authenticity could not be checked conclusively”, he said.
When asked if the artefacts were of enough historical significance to warrant a display at a museum about the Holocaust, Klingen said: “No, absolutely not”.
