
# Rubble of postwar Leeds made the perfect playground

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:52:09+00:00**

Author: **Letters**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2019/nov/01/rubble-of-postwar-leeds-made-the-perfect-playground)


        We were like mountain goats running over tipper-truck mounds of cobblestones, dumped as streets were cleared, writes Janet Lail
      
Your article (Who needs swings and roundabouts?, G2, 31 October) took me back to my 1950s childhood in inner-city Leeds. We hardly saw a blade of grass, but had a wonderful time scrambling among the general dereliction of postwar slum-clearance and building sites. We were like mountain goats running over tipper-truck mounds of cobblestones, dumped as streets were cleared, en route to school. The cobbles were edged with gas-tar so we had modelling material (it came off hands with a rub of margarine paper).
Access to the waterworks depot was by shinning up a drainpipe and over the wall; huge concrete pipes were great to run through. A very smooth bit of road surface alongside our Sweet Street flats was ideal for roller-skating – and there was so little traffic so no danger.
But the highlight of the year was Bonfire Night and the preparations for that. In those days every street had its own fire, and as we were a community in a block of flats, with lots of spare ground (foundations of other blocks that were never built) we had the most gigantic bonfire. “Chumping” (collecting all manner of combustibles) started towards the end of the summer holidays, with a lull when term started, then urgency as November approached. Abandoned back-to-backs, ready for demolition, provided vast amounts of furniture, cupboards, and floorboards for the taking. So kids of all ages would haul armchairs, mattresses, planks, even a piano one year, through the streets to the “diggings” – rough ground where we piled everything. Dens were built, and obstacle courses, with different age groups having their time slots. One year, the whole lot went up in flames ahead of 5 November – no doubt from the teenagers smoking in a den.
So there were no custom-made playgrounds (only on Holbeck Moor – concrete surface under swings and high slide etc) but we lacked nothing when it came to entertaining ourselves. We lived close enough to the city centre to be able to walk to the museum and art gallery – a frequent Sunday afternoon outing, minus parents.
I don’t recall any disasters through all these activities, or the many others. It is lamentable that today’s children are unable to exercise the freedoms of yesteryear to learn independence, initiative, leadership skills, and gain enormously in personal development through unsupervised play.Janet LailNottingham

        
          • Join the debate – email 
        
        
          
            guardian.letters@theguardian.com
          
        
      

        
          • Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit 
        
        
          
            gu.com/letters
          
        
      

        
          • Do you have a photo you’d like to share with Guardian readers? 
        
        
          
            Click here
          
        
        
           to upload it and we’ll publish the best submissions in the letters spread of our print edition
        
      
