
# Vasseur: Midfield is so tight you have to be perfect in the race

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:40:00+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Tyrrell**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49661/alfa-romeo-expected-more-but-admits-form-is-a-bit-strange-.html)


        Alfa Romeo started the season with plenty of optimism, Kimi Raikkonen at the wheel and some good early form led to increased hope. However, their recent form has taken a hit and Fred Vasseur believes it is quite strange.
      
Having lost Charles Leclerc to Ferrari, Alfa Romeo recruited Kimi Raikkonen and Antonio Giovinazzi to lead their team in 2019. After a positive start to the season, which saw Raikkonen battling with the midfield, they have since struggled with Kimi not scoring points in seven races, and his teammate only scoring four all season.
Their form has seen them drop down the standings and Fred Vasseur identified where they might be going wrong.
"We were expecting better, but I think the season was a bit up and down," Vasseur told Autosport.

        "We moved between P4 and P9. It's a good lesson. We lost huge points in Hockenheim, in Baku, in Monza, in Spa.
      

        "I think we did a very strong job in the first part of the season, to be consistent, no mistakes, and very opportunistic. It was not the case in Spa.
      

        "It's a bit strange, but I think for me it's not so much a matter of pace.
      

        "I think it's so tight in the midfield that you have to do the perfect race, quali, start, or it's not working."
      
