
# Kate McKinnon's Elizabeth Warren On 'SNL' Made An Important Point About Healthcare

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:50:43+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/kate-mckinnons-elizabeth-warren-on-snl-made-important-point-about-healthcare-19291116)

Spoilers ahead for the Nov. 2 episode of Saturday Night Live. The cold open of SNL's Nov. 2 episode featured Kate McKinnon reprising her Elizabeth Warren impersonation to make a funny yet important point about healthcare. When McKinnon, as the presidential candidate, took questions from the crowd, newcomer Chloe Fineman said she was nervous about switching from her current healthcare plan to Warren's proposed universal coverage. "My current insurance isn't perfect, but with your plan, I'd have to give it up," Fineman's character lamented. "And that makes me nervous!" The senator, in turn, compared the woman's current plan to a deadbeat guy.
"I hear this from a lot of people, so let me help you understand: Your insurance is like a bad boyfriend," McKinnon said in an impressively Warren-like cadence. "Girl, listen to me: You need to leave him! He's draining you! You deserve better! Dump his ass!" As the presidential candidate begins this impassioned speech, the music began to swell, and the audience member began crying. "You're right, I'm settling!" she whined. "But I'm just scared to leave, because what if it's the best I can get?"
After learning that the woman's deductible was $8,000 (and didn't even include dental), Warren responded, "O.K., listen to me, you beautiful bitch. Here's what's going to happen: You're going to call him, and you're going to end it. And I'm going to come right over with an apple strudel."
