
# This Scottish town is set to be one of the most popular baby names of 2020

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:07:06+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Russell, Courtney Pochin, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jennifer-russell/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/family-kids/scottish-town-set-one-most-20831436)

Choosing a baby name can be tricky at the best of times.
There is so much to think about from possible nicknames to choosing a name that will stand the test of time.
And it turns out a Scottish town is now one of the top baby names for 2020, according to Nameberry.
Paisley has come in at number 4 in the most popular girl's name for next year.
More and more parents are naming their babies after the Renfrewshire town and the reason may sound rather bizarre but, in 2019, it strangely makes sense.
 
According to baby name consultant Sherri Suzanne, parents-to-be are now thinking about what will make their little ones stand out on social media when considering names, reports Mirror Online .
In order to create the top 20, the team at Nameberry work out which names in their database have seen the biggest increase in interest over the last year.
And it seems that parents are really loving the name Paisley as well as old fashioned names like Pearl, which was a top 100 name from 1880 through the mid-1920s.
Unsurprisingly, other names to make the cut take inspiration from pop culture events or celebrities, like Reese (Reese Witherspoon) and Billie (Billie Eilish).
Nameberry says: "Our top baby names are a radical departure from the official national list, which suffers from a considerable time lag. We won't know which names were really used the most often for babies in 2020 until May of 2021.
"The names here offer baby namers a heads up on trends and specific names destined to get more popular in 2020 and beyond."
 
1. Adah
2. Reese
3. Mika
4. Paisley
5. Amina
6. Teagan
7. Nova
8. Aura
9. Pearl
10. Billie
1. Austin
2. Alva
3. Acacius
4. Tate
5. Diego
6. Easton
7. Lucius
8. Cash
9. Ash
10. Luca
