
# Retailer Argos Transforms Stuff Into Dreams With New Holiday Spot

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Will Burns**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/willburns/2019/11/07/retailer-argos-transforms-stuff-into-dreams-with-new-holiday-spot/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

British catalog retailer Argos launched a wonderful new holiday spot this week that is strategic, emotional, entertaining and compelling. So many reverberating, creative layers to this spot to point out. But the short story is that it successfully transforms our perception of all the products in the Argos catalog from “stuff” to “dreams.” And that’s the power of great creative.First, here’s the spot:

        Make no mistake, this spot is about the dad.
      
While one layer of this spot is about the little girl getting what she wants for Christmas, the deeper layer is about the dad reconnecting with his own youth. Note that Simple Minds lead singer Jim Kerr and the dad lock eyes to kick off the song, as if Kerr is somehow singing directly to the dad. And then note the lyrics of the song as the kitchen starts to morph and the dad is jamming on his drum kit to the song:
“Don’t you forget about me. Don’t, don’t, don’t, don’t, don’t you forget about me.”
It’s as if the dad’s inner child, as represented by a song from his 1985 youth, is pleading with the dad to remember his dreams as a child. And judging from his excellent drum playing, drums were clearly a dream of his at some point.
The fact his little girl also loves drums, as indicated by the fact she circled the drums in the Argos catalog, only affirms their kindred relationship in the dad’s eyes. A touching, multi-layered moment for both.

        A reminder what a “gift” really is.
      
My favorite thing about this spot is the strategy. I haven’t seen the creative brief but if I were to reverse-engineer it out of this spot I’d say its key point is something like this: “Give more than a gift, give a dream.” Meaning, shop the Argos catalog not to check someone off your list, but to help fulfill someone’s dreams. Big, beautiful difference.
And I’d argue that this particular spot not only communicates that point well, particularly with the end frame of the catalog saying “The Book Of Dreams,” but goes one step further. It says that gift giving should be about giving a little of yourself. The dad and the daughter share a dream. The dad, yes, wants to fulfill the girl’s dreams with a drum set, but in so doing gives her a little of himself as well.
It’s inspiring to think of gift-giving this way.

        Leads to better shopping mindset for Argos customers.
      
Consumers who see this ad and are inspired by it will not be able to look at an Argos catalog the same way again. The spot will change the way they view the merchandise, in Argos’ favor.
People will rifle through it looking to fulfill dreams instead of check off lists, which means more meaningful gift purchases. More meaningful purchases lead to more emotionally satisfying gift-exchange moments. That satisfaction goes right back to the Argos customer, affirming the choice to shop Argos. But a meaningful purchase may quite possibly yield questions like, “Where did you get this?” Which leads to organic moments of shared brand love.
Well done, Argos. With this spot, you’ve successfully transformed your stuff into dreams.
