
# Nawaz Sharif's health starts improving

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:28:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/516910-Nawaz-Sharif-health-starts-improving)

LAHORE (Dunya News) – Former prime minister Nawaz Sharif’s health is improving as he has started walking without the supervision of doctors, Dunya News reported on Saturday.
The medical board formed for the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) supremo’s health care will examine him today. The former premier has been admitted to the Services Hospital Lahore for 12 days.
According to the hospital sources, Nawaz Sharif took a walk on his own for the first time and his heart medication has been started. Nawaz Sharif is also suffering from other issues including diabetes, high blood pressure and kidney disease.
Dr. Mehmood Ayaz, head of the medical board told that the erstwhile premier’s health condition is improving gradually.
On the other hand, Nawaz Sharif’s personal physician Doctor Adnan tweeted that his health is still critical. The treating doctors tried to reduce the steroids dose being given to him but unfortunately resulted in drop in platelet count again which had come down to 38*10^3/uL yesterday, he stated.
Doctor Adnan said the cause needs to be diagnosed and established without delay.
Severe existent co-morbidities (IHD, ECVD, DM, HTN, CKD3) have added to the seriousness of the nature of critical illness, where a very delicate balance has to be maintained between coagulation and anti-coagulation to sustain fragile unstable health status, he concluded. 
