
# Talented Cambuslang figure skater represents Team GB at junior level

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:47:55+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Geddes, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jonathan-geddes/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/talented-cambuslang-figure-skater-represents-20826453)

A talented Cambuslang figure skater has taken the next step in her budding career after representing her country at junior level.
Taylor McLeod, 15, was one of the British athletes competing in the Tirnavia Ice Cup in Slovakia at the weekend.
The Stonelaw High pupil, a member of East Kilbride Ice Figure Skating Club, finished eighth overall in the contest, where she was competing against teenagers up to four years older than her.
And her proud dad Simon was thrilled at her achievements.
He told the Reformer: “This was a big step up for Taylor and this is the level she will now be competing at until she is 19.
“She surpassed everything that we were expecting with how she performed – we had been thinking that it would just be to learn and anything else would be a bonus, but she skated really well, in both her categories.”
Taylor’s contest was made up of two disciplines and saw the teenager first take part in the short programme before then tackling the free skating event the following day.
Her combined score of 91.58 saw her take eighth place and represented a great learning experience for Taylor.
Simon said: “She knows where she has to improve, and I think she has come back with more confidence.
“Just seeing the other skaters and what they were doing, and all the hard work they had to put in, it shows her where she has to develop for the future.”
The Tirnavia Ice Cup was streamed live online, and after being shared on local Cambuslang Facebook pages, a host of good luck messages for the community flooded in.
That made a big difference to Taylor before she took to the ice.
Simon added: “The response we were getting online was phenomenal, there were so many nice messages.
“I think it gave her a boost to see all these people wishing her well. She’s used to getting good luck messages from people she knows through figure skating, but this was obviously a bit wider than that and there was something really nice about seeing the local community all showing their support.
“Taylor’s quite shy, and I don’t think really understands just how good she actually is at skating, so everything cheering her on took her back a bit.”
Taylor’s appearance came almost four years to the day since she first represented Team GB, which also took place in Slovakia.
Simon said: “It’s always a big thing to represent your country, and we are so proud of her.”
