
# Ayrshire drugs suspect claimed his scales were for dog treats

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:14:18+00:00**

Author: **Paul Behan, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/paul-behan/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/ayrshire-drugs-scales-dog-treats-20831573)

Stephen Wheatley was found with more than half a kilo of the class B drug when his home in Simpson Court Scott Crescent, Troon, was raided by police officers.
Police found cannabis with an estimated street value of between £2,200 and £3,500 when they searched the home on September 30 this year.
They found three bags of “herbal material” and other drug “paraphernalia.”
But, it was claimed in mitigation the scales were used for measuring the quantity of treats for Wheatley’s dog.
Wheatley, aged 28, appeared at Ayr Sheriff Court on Tuesday, October 29.
He admitted being concerned in the supply of cannabis at his home of September 30 this year.
Fiscal Depute Scott Toal said the search unfolded at 2.30pm.
He told the court: “Entry was forced and the property searched.
“Among other things, officers found three bags of herbal material and a vacuum packed bag containing other material.
“Clear bags were recovered at the time and items were tested and found to be cannabis, 504 grammes with a street value of between £2,200 and £3,500.
“The accused was interviewed and told officers he stored them for an individual who was not named.
“They recovered scales and material elsewhere in the property.”
Defence solicitor Ms Kane said: “He accepts that he was asked to store cannabis, which he did for two weeks and that was his involvement.”
But Sheriff John Montgomery asked: “Why did he have scales and other paraphernalia?
“ I have heard from the fiscal depute that scales, associated with drug dealing, were found in the house.”
Scott Toal said: “Scales were recovered from the kitchen worktop and the cannabis was found in another room. Clear bags were found in the kitchen as well.”
Ms Kane said: “It’s his position the scales were nothing to do with the drugs.”
The case was recalled for later in the morning and when it returned Ms Kane said: “The scales were used to measure out dog treats.”
However, Sheriff Montgomery continued the case until December 20 so that a proof in mitigation is heard, which essential means testing the veracity of the defence’s explanation.
Wheatley’s bail conditions were continued.
