
# YouTubers are clashing over eye shadow, and millions of dollars are at stake

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Julia Alexander**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/1/20936459/shane-dawson-jeffree-star-conspiracy-palette-james-charles-morphe-youtube-beauty)

Shane Dawson’s new documentary series, The Beautiful World of Jeffree Star, was originally teased as a look into YouTube’s contentious beauty world, one dominated by scandalous feuds and endless eye shadow palette launches. Instead, the series follows Dawson and Star as they team up to create a palette together — and in doing so, they naturally wander into drama of their own.
In the middle of the series’s run, top beauty YouTuber James Charles revealed that he would be releasing a new palette soon, too. Fans of Dawson and Star flooded Charles’ YouTube page to insult his work, including his palette and videos. Many claimed they were only going to buy Dawson’s palette to support him; others called out Charles’ product for not being as good. He eventually turned comments off.
On YouTube, palettes are grounds for fan wars in 2019, and the stakes are high: for the YouTubers behind them, there’s big money to be made.
James Charles’ primary palette sells for $39, and he claimed to sell out of the initial run in five minutes when it debuted in November 2018. Dawson and Star’s palette is even more expensive. The full 18-shade palette will sell for $52 when it goes on sale Friday, November 1st, and a nine-shade palette will sell for $28. They will also sell a $90 bundle of six lipsticks. Fans who want the entire collection, which also includes lip gloss, lip balm, and a bag, can get it in a package for $210.
Their “Conspiracy” palette could generate $17.5 million through in-store revenue sales and another $17.5 million on Star’s website, according to Morphe executives who talk about potential sales in the documentary series, as well as Star’s own calculations. Those figures sound huge, but Dawson and Star have a combined 39 million YouTube followers.
“You could go home with like $10 million,” Star says to Dawson in one episode. “How does that make you feel?”
Nearly every major beauty vlogger and guru has a makeup palette these days. And for several top beauty YouTubers, those palettes are made by the same company: Morphe, a decade-only brand that describes itself as being “created for the creators.” The company has partnered to distribute palettes with YouTubers including Jaclyn Hill, Charles, Star, and now Dawson. That means, regardless of who wins this season’s palette battle — Charles or Dawson — Morphe gets a slice.
In malls across the US and Canada, Morphe’s store walls are covered with faces of popular creators who are instantly recognizable to teens walking past. A 2018 study from beauty research firm Mintel found that male beauty YouTubers and influencers were having an effect on what makeup products sold at higher rates. Emine ErSelcuk, Morphe’s vice president of global retail, credits teaming up with influencers and YouTubers early in the company’s life as part of its success.
