
# Liverpool: Trent Alexander-Arnold reveals captaining Reds is something he has ‘always dreamed of’

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:44:10+00:00**

Author: **Harry Latham-Coyle**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/premier-league/liverpool-fc-trent-alexanderarnold-captain-dream-future-anfield-100th-appearance-aston-villa-epl-a9180341.html)

Trent Alexander-Arnold has revealed that becoming Liverpool captain would be a “dream”.
The right-back is set to make his 100th appearance for his boyhood club against Aston Villa on Saturday.
And Alexander-Arnold admits that the chance to captain Liverpool is something that motivates him.
“I am not shy in saying that (being Liverpool captain) is a dream for me,” he said in an interview with the BBC.
“Whether it comes true or not is not up to me. I don’t pick who is captain.
“But that is something I would love to do one day. Captaining Liverpool is something I have always dreamed of and it is something that motivates me.”
Alexander-Arnold joined the Liverpool academy at the age of six.
He helped the Reds to back-to-back Champions League finals in his first two full seasons in the side, winning the second one, and broke the record for most assists in a Premier League season by a defender last season, with 12.
Liverpool lead the Premier League this season and are favourites for the title, and Alexander-Arnold has no desire to move elsewhere.
“I’ve always been a Liverpool player, Liverpool has always been my home,” he added.
“I have never thought about changing clubs. When I grew up, the dream was always to play for Liverpool.
“Now I am living the dream and I can’t see that changing.”
