
# Family of tragic backpacker Amelia Bambridge horrified by online pictures of dead body

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Helen Whitehouse, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/helen-whitehouse/, Scarlet Howes**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/family-tragic-backpacker-amelia-bambridge-20796949)

The grieving family of Brit backpacker Amelia Bambridge are horrified  as Instagram and Facebook refused to remove images of her lifeless body.
The web giants – which carried disturbing pictures – said certain photos did NOT breach their rules.
Amelia’s brother Harry begged for an image of her sand-covered tattooed arm to be removed. But Instagram refused to step in.
It was only last night, after pressure from the Sunday Mirror, that Facebook removed the most intrusive post. Others were still online.
One Instagram image was uploaded by a US ghoul famed for gory posts of bodies, foetuses and severed limbs.
Harry – who helped search in vain for 21-year-old Amelia – urged followers: “Get this shared and get this f*****g insensitive women to stop posting pictures of my dead sister.”
His sister Georgie, 19, shared the post and pleaded: “Please report.”
A friend claimed Amelia’s 11-year-old nephew had seen the image.
The scandal comes just weeks after the social media site vowed to tighten its rules on self-harm and mutilation images.
Deputy Labour leader Tom Watson MP said: “This is completely disgraceful from Instagram.
“Amelia’s family should have their privacy and wishes respected. Instagram’s standards are clearly morally redundant if they don’t rule these posts in breach of guidelines.
“This proves how urgently we need a tech regulator to hold companies account for decisions like this.”
Disturbing photos of Amelia’s body began to emerge on Facebook, and then Instagram, hours after her body was found in the sea off the Cambodian isle of Koh Rong.
On Facebook, locals posted pictures appearing to show her body. One showed her floating after fishermen found her.
But it was a close-up of one of the images which sparked fury when it was reposted on Instagram by the US ghoul, who has 1.9million followers.
It showed a distinctive Highland cow tattoo on Amelia’s arm. Other users also reported it to Instagram.
One wrote: “I’ve spoken to Amelia’s brother and he’s shocked and angry.
“For everyone’s information, Amelia was only found yesterday and the family had been searching for five days. For this to be posted almost exactly at the same time is not okay!”
But a spokesman for Facebook, which also owns Instagram, defended their position, telling the Sunday Mirror: “We’re saddened by the news about Amelia Bambridge and our thoughts go out to her family and friends.
“We have clear rules against posting graphic content, when we are made aware of this content we remove it.
"People often use Facebook and Instagram to share stories in the news and this can result in content appearing that some may find upsetting.”
The social network giant initially said that while the images could cause distress, they were not in breach of their community guidelines.
Amelia went missing in Cambodia 10 days ago and was found on Thursday. She is believed to have accidentally drowned after leaving a beach party.
The picture reported by brother Harry, from Worthing, West Sussex, was posted on an account with a caption that said: “Forensic Friday! Tattoo identification was super helpful this week in an investigation involving a young woman.
“Her family provided multiple photos, including the top photo of her tattoo of a Highland cow.
Searchers were able to identify her body based on the clothes she was wearing when last seen, along with her tattoos.”
The account holder later removed the images after being approached for comment by the Sunday Mirror – but only after 11,000 had “liked” it on Instagram and yet more did the same on her Facebook page.
The woman behind the post also runs a blog which claims to include “content too extreme for social media” – including beheadings.
It is the latest scandal around the sharing of ghoulish content.
Two people were jailed for viewing video of the postmortem of Cardiff striker Emiliano Sala, 28, who died in a plane crash. Pictures also appeared online.
A spokesman for the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport said statutory steps were being taken to “tackle a wide range of online harms, including limiting the spread of distasteful and harmful content”.
Amelia's sisters Georgie and Sharon only found out about her death when they saw a Facebook post, a friend revealed yesterday.
Horrified Hannah Cook, 21 saw the image of her pal’s body after opening a message.
She said: “I thought this doesn’t look real. I called Georgie to tell her not to open her phone but she was asleep. I then spoke to Sharon and said I don’t know if it’s real or not but there are these pictures and there’s thousands of likes and comments.
“We weren’t aware of a body so Sharon called the Foreign Office.
“Sharon told me it’s absolutely disgusting. That’s the last image she has of her sister. To have the world knowing before any of us knew or not was the hardest thing.
“Georgie hasn’t seen them but the rest of the family has.
“Then the woman from the US reposted them. I messaged her and said, ‘How could you post the image of a dead body?’
“This has broken me, Amelia was my best friend. She was a very caring person, she would go out of her way to do anything for me and anyone she cared about – and her family are the same.
“It’s horrible. There are so many things she had intended to do. But what’s comforted me is that she was having the best time of her life before this happened."
 
