
# ‘Diablo 4’, ‘Overwatch 2’ And Hong Kong Protests: The Pressure Is On At Blizzcon

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dave Thier**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidthier/2019/11/01/diablo-4-overwatch-2-and-hong-kong-protests-the-pressure-is-on-at-blizzcon/)

For live updates on Blizzcon’s opening ceremonies, check out Heather Newman. This was already a big Blizzcon. Last year’s annual celebration of all things Blizzard veered into that year’s controversy when fans felt let down by the announcement of Diablo Immortal, a mobile spin-off of the storied franchise rather an another main installment. With that in mind, this year could have been poised to be triumphant: the company is now set to reveal Diablo 4, which by all rumors will restore the dark and gothic aesthetic of the revered Diablo 2. And as if that wasn’t enough, we’re also expecting Overwatch 2, a relaunch of the hero shooter that will feature the sort of fully-fledged PvE mode that fans have wanted since launch. That, with the usual World of Warcraft and Hearthstone news, combined with the possibility of a surprise, would make this the largest Blizzard event in years.
So that’s one side of Blizzcon: Blizzard has been on the back foot for a few years from a corporate and design perspective, and longtime fans are hoping for a fresh injection of the old magic to restore faith in a company that once seemed to have endless supplies of the stuff. And yet that’s not all that’s happening at Blizzcon.
A few weeks ago, Blizzard stepped in it. When professional Hearthstone player Chung “Blitzchung” Ng Wai expressed support for Hong Kong protestors in a post game intereview, Blizzard wung into action with a fierce punishment, temporarily banning him from professional Hearthstone and rescinding his prize money. For many fans, the reasoning seemed clear: China is a crucial market for Activision Blizzard, and the government tightly controls access to that market. The company, it seemed, did not want to risk offending that government.
The tacit and not-so-tacit criticism of Diablo Immortal was that this was a “cheap” knockoff of a beloved game designed to sell to Chinese gamers rather than in the West and, value judgements aside, Diablo Immortal does seem like it was designed for an Asian market. The Blitzchung controversy, however, transposed what was essentially a disagreement over the cultural relevancy of game design and transposed it to literal life and death politics. Criticism moved quickly from the initial gamer channels to the federal government, with senators weighing in on both Blizzard and the NBA, at the time embroiled in a similar controversy.
The company later backtracked, but only some. While it reduced Blitzchung’s punishment and restored his prize money, it did not reduce his punishment completely. The message, which the developer laid out in a blog post, was that it would continue to punish political speech. Few were happy with the statement.
So now that brings us to Blizzcon. People started planning protests shortly after the controversy, and now we’ll see to what degree those bear fruit. Heather Newman is providing live updates, and so far it seems like the fandom isn’t doing a whole lot of rising up, though who knows what we’ll see when the cameras turn on.
There are two questions at this conference, related but ultimately different. The first: can a developer that once had nothing short of a perfect reputation shake off its cobwebs and rise to the top once again? The second: just how much genuine political controversy can said developer sweep under the rug?
‘Gamers Rise Up’ is something that we hear from time to time, sometimes in earnest but usually with a hint of irony, covering everything from the perceived influence of pernicious progressives to, in this case, the struggle for democratic representation in the world’s largest country. And so we’ll see if Overwatch 2 and Diablo 4 will wash this uncomfortable taste from Blizzard fans mouths, or if they’ll stick to their guns. My guess is the former.
