
# OxygenOS Open Beta 5 for OnePlus 7/7 Pro will roll out ‘next week’

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:14:50+00:00**

Author: **Damien Wilde**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/07/oxygenos-open-beta-5-oneplus-7-pro/)

Despite pushing out another update at almost the same time, OnePlus has confirmed that the OxygenOS Open Beta 5 for the OnePlus 7 and OnePlus 7 Pro will roll out “next week.”
The update brings a number of upgrades and improvements to both devices — which do have the full stable Android 10 update available already if you prefer. OnePlus noted in the official announcement post that there is currently an issue that needs to be addressed before the rollout can actually begin.
For those of you that were having issues on Beta 4 with touch latency while gaming, a fix is incoming. There are also fixes for privacy alerts and app permission requests, weather app enhancements, optimized adaptive brightness fixes, and even a fix for the navigation bar color when using the native dark mode.

            System
          

            Weather
          

            Emergency Rescue
          
Some people have been able to get hold of the OxygenOS Open Beta 5 OTA file early using apps like Oxygen Updater. It looks to be a rather large update that weighs in at around 2GB in size — one to download when connected to Wi-Fi.
Our advice would be to avoid doing so until OnePlus has confirmed that all issues have been resolved. Of course, this is a beta so while it may be stable for the most part, you may encounter issues and bugs not seen in full OTA releases. Because of that, our advice would be to only install if you are fully aware of any risks and problems.
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
