
# Ileana D’Cruz reveals she is not ready for love after break-up with Andrew Kneebone

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:08:52+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/ileana-dcruz-reveals-she-is-not-ready-for-love-after-break-up-with-andrew-kneebone/articleshow/71948365.cms)

Ileana D’Cruz had closely guarded her relationship with Andrew Kneebone, sparingly dropping hints about their relationship. However this year the couple parted ways and seems like the actress is positively emerging from the heart-break. In an interview with a news portal, Ileana stated that after the break-up she went to a therapist who told her to accept the complements and that she is doing well now. While Ileana went on to accept that having a partner makes one calm and secure, the actress added that she is not ready for love. The ‘Rustom’ actress wished good for Andrew and stated that after the break-up, she didn’t curse him or think anything bad about him.
Ileana and Andrew parting ways made headlines when the two started unfollowing each other on Instagram. The actress had also deleted posts of Andrew from her social media page, giving way to speculations that Ileana and Andrew have called it quits. Going by her popularity on social media, seems like Ileana D’Cruz is living it up like never before. Moving ahead positively from the break-up, Ileana recently clocked 11 million followers on Instagram. The actress treats her followers with a lot of positive quotes, bikini clicks and glamorous photoshoots.
On the professional front, Ileana is busy promoting her upcoming release ‘Pagalpanti’. She has been paired alongside John Abraham in the comic caper which is scheduled to hit the screens on November 22.
