
# GTBank, UBA, Access, Zenith traded N1.72 billion on Wednesday

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:28:07+00:00**

Author: **Samuel Oyekanmi**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/06/gtbank-uba-access-zenith-traded-n1-72-billion-on-wednesday/)

Investors traded the sum of N1.72 billion on the shares of GTBank, United Bank of Africa (UBA), Access Bank, and Zenith Bank.
The banks were actively traded on the bourse as they traded a total of 150.8 million shares valued at N1.7 billion, which represents 55.2% of the total trades today.
Details: UBA Plc was the most actively traded stock in the market as it traded 59.06 million shares valued at N371.5 million followed by Access bank plc, which traded 45.6 million shares at N378.1 million.
Zenith bank plc also followed with a trade of 26.5 million shares valued at N459.4 million and GT bank traded 19.7 million shares with a value of N515 million while Transnational corporation of Nigeria Plc rounded off the list with trades in 13.04 million shares at N13.03 million.
Meanwhile, for the second time this week, the All-share index dipped by 0.58% today to close at 26,223.66 basis points.

        Top gainers
      
Cornerstone Insurance Plc was the best performing stock on the bourse today as it gained 8.89% to close at N0.49, followed by Law union Insurance Plc, which gained 8.7% to close at N0.50. Lasaco Assurance plc gained 3.85% and closed at N0.27. Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc also gained 3.03% to close at N1.02 while FCMB gained 1.75% to close N1.74.

        Top losers
      
Presco Plc was the worst-performing stock today as it lost 9.9% to close the day at N34.6 followed by International Breweries Plc, which shed 9.69% and closed at N10.25. Mcnichols Plc declined by 8.7% to close at 0.42, Fidelity Bank plc also lost 6.88% to close at N1.76 while Wapic Insurance plc closed at N0.32 representing 5.88% decline.
