
# Reader’s Voice: Chiefs Will Win The League This Season!

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:18:00+00:00**

Author: **SL Social**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/supporters_club/reader-s-voice-chiefs-will-win-the-league-this-season/666948)


        “No need to argue, Chiefs will win the Absa Premiership this season. You can tell from their play that they will be the champions. What a player we have in Zuma the boy is a special, he’s similar to Neymar. Thumbs up to all Amakhosi.”
      
These are the bold claims made by SL Supporter and avid Kaizer Chiefs fan @ patrick shikwambani and in his defence, he has reason to feel this buoyant, following his team’s resurgence this season.
Ernst Middendorp’s men recorded their fifth consecutive win by overcoming a stubborn Chippa United on Wednesday evening. The side from Naturena sit pretty atop the log with a seven-point gap over Mamelodi Sundowns, who have a game in hand. 
What is even more impressive about Chiefs’ 2-0 win is that Ernst Middendorp rested a number of his regulars for the clash, something SL Supporter @ Zizuness Moshou feels will go a long way in helping their championship plight this season.

        “All we do is win, win, win no matter what. Great performance from our makeshift team. Well done guys it shows we do have players who can still come in and win us games.” 
      

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
While Middendorp rightfully deserves the credit for Chiefs’ turnaround, SL Supporter @Zam d king Buccaneer, feels that Bobby Motaung deserves a special mention too. 

        “I still do not hear people praising Bobby for having a backbone and sticking with Middendorp after the humiliating loss to TS Galaxy and missing out on a top eight spot. Give credit where it's due. Come on people.”
      
Rival fans like SL Supporter @Dangaga feels that it is the men from Naturena who have all the confidence in the world, and have the ability to beat Orlando Pirates for the second time in a matter of days.

        “I am a Sundowns fan and hate to admit that killer Chiefs are on fire and if they can get past Pirates, their confidence will be sky-high, meaning the league will be theirs to lose.”
      

        Having seen their form this season, do you think Kaizer Chiefs can overcome Pirates once again this weekend, or will the Buccaneers bite back? 
      
