
# China Launches World’s Largest 5G Network with Three Carriers

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:55:53+00:00**

Author: **Kenn Abuya**

Original: [Techweez](https://techweez.com/2019/11/01/china-5g-official-launch/)

5G. It is the next big thing in the technology world: it enables customers to download content more quickly because of its higher data rates that can go up to 20 Gbit/s, has reduced latency hence you can experience less delay when accessing services and has a broader capacity as the network expands.
The technology has been officially launched in China. The development was announced today by three primary carriers for the world’s most populous country: China Mobile, China Unicorn, and China Telecom.
Chinese companies such as Huawei and ZTE have been at the forefront in pushing 5G technology. Huawei, for instance, is reportedly way ahead than the competition as far as 5G development is concerned. According to the corporation’s founder, this feat has not rubbed the competition well, hence the constant onslaught from the West.
While the U.S. does not want anything to do with the company (American companies cannot trade with Huawei, a move that runs deep that Huawei launched the Mate 30 Series of devices without Google services), its allies appear to have no issue with the telecommunications company. The U.K., for instance, will allow Huawei to develop a section of its 5G networks.
The Chinese telecoms companies will sell 5G data plans from about $18 for 30 GB. At the moment, the Asian country’s nationals can purchase 4G plans for the same price.
Effectively, China has the largest coverage of 5G in the world. The carriers have plans to install more than 50,000 5G stations in key cities such as Shanghai and Beijing.
Chinese phone makers are also at the forefront of manufacturing 5G-capable devices. Besides Huawei, a couple of smartphones from BBK Electronics have been equipped with 5G radios.
Locally, only Safaricom has the capacity to launch the service in the near future. However, the carrier has not revealed any plans to do so and is currently planning to push 4G connections to all urban centres in the country.
