
# Pakistan urged to move from basic to fashion garments

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:15:46+00:00**

Author: **Shahram Haq**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2093570/2-pakistan-urged-move-basic-fashion-garments/)

LAHORE: The International Apparel Foundation (IAF) Convention is a good opportunity for Pakistan and the country should now move from basic garments to casual wear and ultimately into the fashion industry where the rest of the world is heading, said IAF Regional Chairman Ijaz Khokhar.
Speaking to The Express Tribune, he detailed that the convention would provide young and fresh graduates the opportunity to present their work around the globe and it could also help them establish their businesses. The event will take place in Lahore on November 12 and 13.
“Apart from this, we have organised business-to-business meetings of global companies with local counterparts in which joint ventures and buyers’ sourcing will be discussed,” he said.
Khokhar was of the view that the convention would prove to be a milestone in the country’s textile sector and urged the textile units to learn from the expertise of member countries so they can grow.
Qasim Hussain, one of the graduates participating in the competition, regretted that Pakistan lacked research and development infrastructure in the textile sector and termed it the right time for the country to invest in new fabrics like ramie fabric.
It is pertinent to mention that plants of ramie fabric are available in Pakistan but there is no proper processing mechanism.
“Ramie fibre is widely used in developed countries,” he said. “Pakistan, a textile based country, should invest in research and development so designers like us can penetrate in global sustainable fashion apparel markets.”

        Published in The Express Tribune, November 5th, 2019.
      
