
# Bitcoin All-Time High Organic, Not Single Whale Manipulation, Says Vaneck Analyst

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:00:20+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/04/bitcoin-all-time-high-organic-not-single-whale-manipulation-says-vaneck-analyst/)

Researchers behind an earlier study claiming that US Dollar Tether (USDT) was the cause of the 2017 Bitcoin bull market peak now claim that a single large holder drove the price upwards. However, an analyst at VanEck believes this to be nonsense.
Instead, Gabor Gurbacs claims that the rise was caused by “organic bitcoin and crypto demand”. Tether, the company behind USDT has also called the research “foundationally flawed” and that it was likely published to support a “parasitic lawsuit”.
According to a report in Bloomberg, University of Texas Professor John Griffin and Amin Shams from Ohio State University have updated their 2018 paper relating to the massive Bitcoin price rise in 2017. The two academics now claim that the manipulation was the work of a single large holder of Bitcoin, popularly known as a “whale”.
Griffin commented:
The researchers still claim that USDT was used in the manipulation. They observed that Bitcoin purchases increased on the Bitfinex exchange platform whenever the price fell by certain amounts. They have not speculated as to the identity of the whale they believe to be behind the price manipulation. The paper reads:
They added that such patterns are unlikely to be the result of chance and that one massive trader had “an extremely large price impact on Bitcoin”.
However, Gabor Gurbacs, an analyst at fund management firm VanEck, refutes the study. He alleges that those behind it do not understand the Bitcoin market structure. Instead, he believes that no such manipulation took place and the epic price run that took Bitcoin just short of $20,000 was “organic”.
