
# Things to do today in Bengaluru

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/things-to-do-today-in-bengaluru/articleshow/71943167.cms)

Save the snow leopard Charudutt Mishra, science and conservation director at The Snow Leopard Trust, will be in town to deliver a talk today. He will cover aspects of the work that go into science-based conservation of these rare animals. Plus, he will elaborate on the new threats that have emerged in the recent past and the acute need for green development in the areas where snow leopards are found. WHERE: Bangalore International Centre, 4th Main Road, Domlur II Stage WHEN: 6.30pm-8pm, November 7 ENTRY: Free CALL: 9886599675 Watch a film Written and directed by Chaintanya Tamhane, Court is an engaging courtroom drama, about a trial of a social activist who is accused of inciting a sewage worker’s suicide. It gives an insight into the harsh realities and biases that underscore the judicial system. The film was also India’s official entry for the 88th Academy Awards. WHERE: 7/1, Edward Road, off Queens Rd, Vasanth Nagar WHEN: 6.30pm onwards, November 7 ENTRY: champaca.in Dress to kill Bengaluru loves partying and that’s why, it’s still throwing Halloween bashes! Like this venue is inviting all party-goers to dress up in scary, dramatic costumes and tap their feet to the best of commercial music, which DJ Shubham will spin tonight. WHERE: Antigravity Pub, 4th floor Kadubeesanahalli, Marathahalli WHEN: 9pm onwards, November 7 CALL: 9513293261 Break free Day 3 of The Ranga Shankara Theatre Festival – The Festival of Laughter and Forgetting will stage Hello Farmaaish. It is a story of a few resourceful women and how they outshine the limitations set by society to reinvent a better world for themselves. It is inspired by astronaut Kalpana Chawla and is a rollercoaster ride from reality into science fiction to dreams and then back to reality. WHERE: Ranga Shankara, 2nd Phase, JP Nagar WHEN: 7.30pm, November 7 ENTRY: `200,bookmyshow.com Health first Eating healthy is all the rage today and for good reason. To shed light on all the dos and don’t of healthy eating, Shubha Dharmana, a nutritionist and cosmetologist, will host a talk. She will recommend a diet that is based on the principles of anti-ageing medicine that cuts out all processed foods, refined sugars, carbohydrates and replaces them with healthy, home-cooked meals with lots of fruits and vegetables. WHERE: Phalada Pure & Sure Cafe, 7th Main Rd, 4th Block, Jayanagar WHEN: 3pm-5pm, November 7 CALL: 9538191551 Candle light veg dinners Are you looking for a multi-cuisine, vegetarian restaurant to go out to? Look no further than Paakashala, a chain started by restaurateur KN Vasudev Adiga. It’s a big plus that they have six outlets in the city and the next is coming up along Kanakapura Road. Each outlet offers something different – the RR Nagar is a fine diner and will start candle light dinners on Tuesdays from now on, whereas their Chandra Layout, Malleshwaram and Vidyaranyapura branches are QSR formats. WHERE: RR Nagar, Chandra Layout, Malleshwaram, Vidyaranyapura, JP Nagar, MG Road CALL: 28604460 Paint like a pro To all the art lovers, here is a workshop to upgrade your painting game. Here, you will learn to make acrylic paintings a palette knife – no brush. The session is beginner-friendly and at the end of it, you will get to take home the impressive artwork you just created. WHERE: Biggies Burger ‘N’ More, Spice Garden Compound, Marathahalli WHEN: 2pm onwards, November 7 FEE: `1,250, insider.in Press the buzzer So you think you know it all? We mean, are you a quiz enthusiast? Then, here’s the chance to put your GK to test and get rewarded. This quiz contest will have different rounds, from history to current affairs and aptitude. WHERE: Slate Cafe. 15th Cross Rd, Dollar Layout, 3rd Phase, JP Nagar, WHEN: 8pm-10pm, November 7 ENTRY: Free FIVESIXZERO is back Wondering what’s that? Inspired by the pin code of Bengaluru, FiveSixZero (FSZ) was launched in 2016 to celebrate the city’s status of being the ‘music capital of India’, and since then, it’s attracted many thousands to the festival ground. The good news is, it’s back for the third time and will be held in association with Bangalore Mirror. Over three days, it will celebrate every facet of Indian dance music with an intersection of global dance music, and will explore aspects of space, history, communities, talent, uprisings and more, all through the lens of the music industry. It will feature a two-day-long music summit and after-parties. And of course, the big music festival night, which is divided into three parts. The ‘Main Stage’ will be dedicated to electronic music and will be headlined by Krewella and Nucleya, and supported by Third Party, Justin Oh, Tom Tyger, TANK, and BOHB. ‘De:Vision – The Underground Stage’, will cover the underground side of techno, deep-house and tech-house music. This will be headlined by Shal O Cin and supported by Anytrixx, Mia Mendi, Audio Units, Answer After Hours, and Dramatiq. The third one, called ‘Homegrown Stage’, will give a platform to the famous DJs of Bengaluru, such as Ivan, Martin D Souza, Shine, Rishab Chabra, Ashtrix, and Roan. And if you aren’t convinced already, let Nocturnal Networks, the curator of FSZ, an initiative of Times Red Cell, tell you, “With the summit being a fulcrum to get the music industry discussing its opportunities and challenges with the global diaspora, the fest is touted to be the first-of-its kind in India”. WHERE: The Lalit Ashok, Kumarakrupa Road WHEN: November 22-24 ENTRY: bookmyshow.com DETAILS: fivesixzero.in To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
