
# 4-Month Prognosis For Zach Collins Is A Major Blow For Trail Blazers

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mike Tokito**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/miketokito/2019/11/06/4-month-prognosis-for-zach-collins-is-a-major-blow-for-trail-blazers/)

One day after they suffered an embarrassing loss to a team starting three rookies, the Portland Trail Blazers took another one on the chin Tuesday, this time in the form of injury news.The Blazers announced that their starting power forward, Zach Collins, will be out for four months after having surgery to repair a torn left labrum, the result of dislocating his shoulder Oct. 27 at Dallas. Collins won’t necessarily be back on the court in late February or March; the four month time frame is for when he will be re-evaluated.
The news added to a downer period for Blazers after a 127-118 loss at Golden State against a team that was missing its top four players. The defeat left fans scratching their heads, but the news about Collins was the bigger blow, coming after the Blazers went 1-3 since his injury.
Technically, Collins is listed as 6-foot-11, but if we’re willing to round him up an inch, he is one of four 7-footers on Portland’s roster. Three are now injured, with Jusuf Nurkic and Pau Gasol yet to even suit up this season.
That leaves Hassan Whiteside as the lone healthy 7-footer, and the 6-10 Skal Labissiere as the only other player who is taller than 6-8 (unless you count two-way player Moses Brown, a 7-2 rookie who just turned 20). A team built to offer rim protection is suddenly very vulnerable in the lane.
Even with Whiteside, who has led the NBA in both rebounding and blocks, the Blazers have been deficient inside with Collins out. The Blazers have been outrebounded in all four games Collins has missed, and have had some huge deficits in points in the paint, including by 22 in the only win, at Oklahoma City, and an astonishing 44 (84-40) against Philadelphia, in a game Whiteside also missed.
How much have the Blazers missed Collins? The third-year player is only in his first season as a starter, and the sample size of him in that role is tiny – a mere three games. But he was showing in longer minutes many of the attributes he showed his first two seasons that made him a potential cornerstone of the franchise. First and foremost, Collins brings an innate competitive fire, a huge asset for any team.
Collins has also played a productive role in the Blazers’ offense, averaging 9.0 points and a willingness to take open 3-point attempts, vital on a team on which guard Damian Lillard and CJ McCollum receive so much defensive attention. Collins was 3 for 7 behind the arc in his three starts, a tiny sample size, but still promising. He has also shown an ability to keep the ball moving, with a career-high five-assist game against Sacramento.
Nurkic, who suffered a hideous compound leg break in March, isn’t expected back until the new year at the earliest. There’s been no timetable announced for Gasol, who at 39 can hardly be expected to play starter’s minutes when he returns from the foot surgery he had at the end of last season.
That means the Blazers will have to play small ball for a while, maybe even something like another 60 games. Coach Terry Stotts has been starting veteran Anthony Tolliver in Collins’ place, and at 34, Tolliver is more apt to lean on experience than athletic prowess. At 25 percent shooting from the field and 26.3 from 3-point range, he has not come close to replicating Collins’ production on offense.
Labisierre might figure into the starting equation at some point if the Blazers can’t get more production out of Tolliver, especially if Labisierre can avoid the diminishing returns effect that hits young players when they get a big rise in playing time.
The real answer, though, might be other players just playing better. McCollum, the king of the mid-range game, is shooting just 41.4 percent on 2-point shots, a big drop from the 50.6 he shot last year. Kent Bazemore just has not found his 3-point touch (31.8 percent). Rodney Hood has mostly played well, but should probably shoot more – his 9.4 attempts per game are still half what McCollum (19.6) and Lillard (21.4) are averaging.
Even Lillard, who is averaging 31.1 points, needs to pick his spots better. Against the Warriors, he attempt too many hero shots late in a close game, and was 3 for 9 from the field and 0 for 4 on 3-pointers in the fourth quarter.
