
# CGS-CIMB downgrades Westports as share price has done well

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:57:29+00:00**

Author: **Wong Swee May**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/cgscimb-downgrades-westports-share-price-has-done-well)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 6): CGS-CIMB Research has downgraded Westports Holdings Bhd to "Hold" at RM4.35 with a higher target price (TP) of RM4.30.
In a note Nov 5, the research house said Westports' core net profit for the first nine months of 2019 (9M19) of RM466 million was slightly below expectations at 72% and 74% of house full-year forecast and the full-year consensus estimates respectively, as conventional revenue came in lower.
It said Westports' core net profit for the third quarter of 2019 (3Q19) rose 12% year-on-year (y-o-y) due to a 13% rise in container volumes and the 13% gateway tariff hike that took effect on March 1, 2019, partly offset by lower conventional volumes.
Westports' 9M19 core earnings rose 20% y-o-y, as container volumes rose 16% y-o-y. Transhipment volumes were very robust y-o-y, rising 15.5% in 1Q19, 28% in 2Q19, and 17% in 3Q19 (9M19: +20% y-o-y).
Meanwhile, gateway volumes extended their expansion, up 6.5% y-o-y in 1Q19, 11.1% 2Q19, and 5.7% 3Q19 (9M19: +7.8% y-o-y).
Container volumes stood at 2.53 million twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) in 1Q19 (+12.6% y-o-y). In 2Q19, it rose 8.1% quarter-on-quarter (q-o-q) to 2.74 million TEUs (+21.6% y-o-y), and in 3Q19, it rose by a further 1.4% q-o-q to 2.77 million TEUs (+13.3% y-o-y).
"For financial year 2019 forecast (FY19F), we have raised our container volume assumption to 10.82 million TEUs (up 13.6% y-o-y), from 10.56 million TEUs previously (up 10.8% y-o-y), which will result in an utilisation rate of 76%, based on the current annual handling capacity of 14 million TEUs.
"Westports can increase capacity to 15 million TEUs per annum in FY20F once it buys more equipment for Container Terminal 9 (CT9)," it said.
According to the research house, Westports said it is planning a capital expenditure of RM500 million in FY20F, comprising RM70 million for a new liquid bulk terminal, and RM430 million to develop a new container yard for CT9 and to buy five quay cranes, 12 gantry cranes and 40 terminal trucks for CT9.
Furthermore, the design and costing of Westports 2 (W2) has been completed, with approval granted by the Port Klang Authority.
Westports will need RM1 billion of internally-generated cash to fund land reclamation in the first of two phases. Westports hopes to start from mid-2020F if the concession negotiations with the government are completed by then.
The reclamation may take one year to mid-2021F, upon which the 18-month wharf construction can begin and the port equipment can be ordered.
Once the land is settled by mid-2022F, the yard construction can be finished in six months. Hence, Westports should be able to commission CT10 by early-2023F at the earliest.
The research house estimated only a minor 3% equity issue to fund the land reclamation, with the rest to be funded by the existing cash pile and a potential dividend reinvestment plan, of which the Gnanalingam family and Hutchison Port Holdings have committed to exercise half of their dividend entitlements.
"Westports has guided that no additional equity issue will be required for future W2 capex involving wharf construction, yard construction and equipment purchases as these can be funded from new debt," it said.
At 10.05am, Westports shares dipped 1.38% or 6 sen to RM4.29, for a market capitalisation of RM14.63 billion.
