
# The best printer deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ashleigh Macro**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/printing/best-printer-deals-3664994/)

If your old printer is playing up or you're sick of high ink costs, a new model is what you need. 
The good news is that you can find printer deals all year round, so read on to find out how to spot the biggest bargains and what to look for when buying a new printer.

        HP OfficeJet 5230From: Currys PC WorldWas: £99.99Now: £39  (£60.99 off) View Deal
      

        Canon Pixma TS5050From: AmazonWas: £119.99Now: £59.99  (50% off) View Deal
      

        HP Deskjet 2622From: AmazonWas: £32Now: £24.99  (£7.01 off) View Deal
      

        HP Color LaserJet Pro M254dwFrom: HPWas: £169Now: £119  (£50 cashback) View Deal
      

        HP Envy 5030 All-in-One Printer - Alexa-enabledFrom: AmazonWas: £69.99Now: £54.99  (£15 off) View Deal
      

        HP Envy Photo 6234 All-in-One Wireless Inkjet PrinterFrom: Currys PC WorldWas: £89.99Now: £59.99  (£30 off after cashback) View Deal
      
Epson Ecotank ET-2650 All-in-One Wireless Inkjet PrinterFrom: Currys PC WorldWas: £230Now: £150  (£80 off) View Deal< >
It’s important to keep in mind that the price of the printer is just the beginning. You’ll also need to consider ink costs. Often what looks like a great value printer can turn out to be expensive in the long run because of expensive ink. Some manufacturers, including HP, now offer ink subscriptions which give you a fixed price for a certain number of prints per month, which makes it easy to know how much you'll be spending.
Most modern printers are multifunction all-in-one devices that can scan and copy documents in addition to your standard printing capabilities. Some include a fax machine, too.
You can find printer reviews by category – choose from budget, laser, laser colour, inkjet and all-in-one models
Look out for Wi-Fi-enabled printers, as these are incredibly useful for when you need to print from your phone or a laptop. Also consider whether they have USB ports or memory card slots for easier photo printing.
There are lots of different types of printers available, which can make it really tricky to decide which is right for you. It’s worth first noting that the printer market moves very slowly, so don't be afraid of buying last year's model.

        Inkjet vs Laser
      
These are the two main printing technologies. An inkjet printer sprays tiny dots of ink onto paper and are generally cheaper than laser printers (though you may pay more in cartridges in the long run).
Laser printers, on the other hand, use a powdered ink called toner. The paper gets electronically charged to attract the ink into position. It's then fused with heat onto the page. Laser printers work best for text and generally for printing quickly at high volume.
In terms of colour printing, inkjet printers can product high quality images but are usually slower. Colour laser printers, while faster than inkjets are more expensive to buy, costing from around £130.
Ink cartridges might look cheaper than toner cartridges, but consider the cost per page: toner can often print 1000 pages or more, but ink might last only 100-200 pages. You can also use third-party toner which is much cheaper than genuine toner from Xerox, Samsung and others. Just make sure using it doesn't void your warranty.
For more advice on which printer to buy, visit our best printer round-up.
We’re bringing you our carefully curated list of the best printer deals right here, but here are a few retailers you can check out for yourself for printer deals:
If you're hoping to catch one of Amazon's limited-time Lightning Deals, we'd recommend signing up for the 30 day free trial of Amazon Prime. Not only will this get you free next day delivery, but you'll also get access to Lightning Deals 30 minutes earlier than non-Prime members.
Cartridges can be expensive in the long run, but you can score a deal if you know where to look. Aside from checking the retailers mentioned above, there are a couple other places worth looking. It's also well worth experimenting with third-party cartridges which can work out at a fraction of the price. We've had good success with third-party toner from Amazon and ebay.
Groupon often has discounts popular brands such as HP, Canon and Epson. See Groupon cartridge deals.
eBay is another place to check, though ensure you buy from an authorised reseller or a trustworthy source with a strong track record of positive reviews and ratings.  See cartridge deals on eBay.

        From: Currys PC WorldWas: £99.99Now: £39  (£60.99 off) View Deal
      
Print, copy and scan with this all-in-one printer. It also supports AirPrint on Apple devices but the Wi-Fi also supports Android and Windows.  This deal also gets you four months of free HP Instant Ink.

        From: AmazonWas: £119.99Now: £59.99  (50% off) View Deal
      
The Pixma TS5050 will print, scan and copy. And at this price it's a good deal.

        From: AmazonWas: £32Now: £24.99  (£7.01 off) View Deal
      
This compact HP inkjet printer can print, copy and scan. It comes with a two-month trial of HP instant ink - which re-orders ink so you have it when you need it. 

        From: HPWas: £169Now: £119  (£50 cashback) View Deal
      
Prints A4 up to 21 ppm in mono and up to 21 ppm in colour. Can hold 250 sheets. Print from your smartphone using the HP app.
With this deal, you must claim cashback from HP within 30 days of purchase.

        From: AmazonWas: £69.99Now: £54.99  (£15 off) View Deal
      
Save on this all-in-one printer which you can control through the Amazon Alexa smart assistant. You also get three months worth of ink through HP's Instant Ink programme. You get an additional £2.75 off at checkout, which brings the total money off to £17.75.

        From: Currys PC WorldWas: £89.99Now: £59.99  (£30 off after cashback) View Deal
      
The printer works via WiFi, AirPrint and Google Cloud Print if you want to print wirelessly. It offers automatic double-sided printing at up to 13 prints per minute, and there's a dedicated photo paper tray too.
This deal gets you 4 months of HP InstantInk, and if you sign up for an Instant Ink subscription (there are no contracts) you can claim £30 cashback from HP until 31/10/19.

        From: Currys PC WorldWas: £230Now: £150  (£80 off) View Deal
      
This printer comes with two years worth of ink. It works with Apple AirPrint and Google Cloud Print and can also be used as a copier and scanner.
