
# Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao to Speak at Turkish Summit Alongside Gov’t Bigwigs

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Joeri Cant**

Original: [Cointelegraph](https://cointelegraph.com/news/binance-ceo-changpeng-zhao-to-speak-at-turkish-summit-alongside-govt-bigwigs)

Changpeng Zhao, CEO of major cryptocurrency exchange Binance, will be speaking at the Turkish Capital Markets Summit 2019.
On Nov. 1, Cointelegraph Turkish reported that Zhao, also known as CZ within the crypto community, will be going to Turkey to attend and speak at the Capital Market Summit, which will be held in Istanbul from Nov. 19–20, 2019.
The event also includes members of Turkey’s presidential administration. Dr. Ali Taha Koç, the Head of the Digital Transformation Office of the Presidency of the Republic of Turkey and Arda Ermut, the Head of the Investment Office of the Presidency are both slated to attend.
The summit also invites major figures in the banking sector, investors and top executives, such as CEO of major holding company Koç Holding, Levent Çakıroğlu
CZ will take the stage on the first day of the event, where Gokhan Seckin, the CEO of digital ID firm Kimlic, will present CZ with a number of questions that are selected by the Turkish community. Seckin told Cointelegraph:
According to data from traffic stats tracker SimilarWeb, Turkey is reportedly the country comprising the 3rd most traffic on Binance's website. Binance did not respond to Cointelegraph's request for more information in this regard.
On Oct. 22, Zhao named Russian President Vladimir Putin as the most influential person in the blockchain space at the Open Innovations Forum in Moscow. Zhao added that he believes the bill on regulating digital money in the Duma may be adopted in the Russian Federation in the foreseeable future. 
Nine days after Zhao’s comments at the forum, Binance silently launched ruble trading on its platform, allowing users to deposit and withdraw in RUB. 
In October, Cointelegraph’s global coverage again expanded with the launch of its Turkish edition. Turkey joined Cointelegraph’s existing bureaus in Germany, Italy, Brazil, Japan, Korea, Spain, and Serbia.
