
# Police pursuing 3 suspects after gang raping incident in Nakuru’s Industrial Training Institute

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:17:11+00:00**

Author: **WANJIRU MACHARIA**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/police-pursuing-3-suspects-after-gang-raping-incident-in-nakurus-industrial-training-institute/)


        NAKURU, Kenya, Nov 4 – Police in Nakuru have launched a manhunt for three men accused of breaking into a college hostel where they gang raped a female student.
      
The suspects broke into the ladies’ hostel at the Kenya Industrial Training Institute (KITI) in Nakuru and proceeded to the victim’s room on Sunday night.
ADVERTISEMENT
Armed with knives, the men broke into the ladies’ hostel at the college on the outskirts of Nakuru town at about 3:00am, a police report seen on Monday indicated.
The student was reportedly tied to the bed and raped in turns by the three suspects.
A friend to the first-year beauty course student told the media the suspects threatened to kill her should she report the incident.
The victim was said to have been alone in her room when the attackers pounced.
“She was out of the school compound since Friday and only returned to the hostel Sunday evening,” said the source.
Confirming the incident, Nakuru Town East Police Commander, Ellena Kabukuru said police are still investigating the matter.
She said the culprits will be apprehended and prosecuted.
The student’s father who said he was learn about the incident Monday morning blamed the management over security lapses in the school.
The student is admitted at the Nakuru County Referral Hospital.
Post Views: 430
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
