
# There’s A Revolution In The Works At Paris’ Gare Du Nord

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Ledsom**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/alexledsom/2019/11/02/theres-a-revolution-in-the-works-at-paris-gare-du-nord/)

The Gare du Nord in Paris is in the middle of a revolution. On one side are eager planners wishing to develop the station into a large mall, which they hope will revitalize the area. On the other, are environmentalists, architects and locals who want to preserve the fabric of one of the oldest parts of the city.
Gare du Nord is unlike its counterparts in London or Brussels in that this is as much an international station as it is a key commuter hub. As reported in the Guardian, the Gare du Nord is second only to Japanese stations for the number of travellers which pass through its doors. What’s more, it also serves as an axis for everyone travelling in from the surrounding area. That adds up to 2,100 trains every day and 50o,000 people from Paris’ suburbs alone. And these people leave the station and head straight into the center of Paris. It’s not something that passengers arriving at London’s more salubrious St. Pancras have to deal with.
Paris’ Gare du Nord is an architectural masterpiece–dating from 1864–surrounded by decades of cramped city planning and heavy traffic congestion. As if often the case with large metropolitan stations, the surrounding streets are a combination of offices, shops and residential buildings. Add into the mix, a very busy hospital with ambulances coming and going, coupled with the fact that trains already run four storeys underground and the shops on the main concourse are situated at the expense of providing seats for waiting passengers.
With the Olympic Games on the horizon in 2024, Paris is looking to tidy up its problem child and developers have laid out a plan to turn the building into a gleaming shopping mall. Backed by the supermarket chain Auchan, there would be offices and malls, comparable with an airport, with separate spaces for arrivals and departures. It’s a €600 ($670) million commercial project with lots of detractors, many of them architects, who have written an open letter this month, calling the project “indecent.”
Most of the detractors sit on the left of the political spectrum. The city hall is not in charge of the project and has voiced several concerns about there being too much commercial focus and not enough bike space. It cites the fact that many large shopping complexes in Paris are struggling to survive and new shops would crowd out existing businesses, such as restaurants surrounding the station. Many of the people arriving at this station are economically fragile, working long days for low pay; the idea that they should have to navigate many escalators and rows upon rows of shops to move through the station seems particularly cruel to opponents.
The area is a central point for helping homeless people and Paris’ disenfranchised–France’s first needle exchange opened here three years ago–and many worry about what will happen to the homeless. What’s more, environmentalists point out that the station is the hottest part of the city with no surrounding green space. They argue that delivery trucks and increased parking for a giant mall will aggravate climate change problems. As stated by The Conversation, the division has essentially come down to a debate as to who will reap the benefits of this immense privatisation, from what is still essentially a public space.
