
# Crapshoot: Microshaft Winblows 98, the parody that forgot the jokes

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:55:44+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cobbett**

Original: [PC Gamer](https://www.pcgamer.com/saturday-crapshoot-microshaft-winblows-98/)


        From 2010 to 2014 
        
          Richard Cobbett
        
         wrote Crapshoot, a column about bringing random obscure games back into the light. After seeing the name of this week's bit of obscura, you should know all you need. Stick around though. The Muppets turn up near the end. Honest.
      
Drinking leper vomit. Being served a beloved pet in a bun. Being dragged naked on train tracks sprinkled with salt and broken glass. Drowning in a vat of live maggots.
Oh, hello there, readers. You just joined us, the PC Gamer team, in our weekly game of "Things That Are More Fun Than Microshaft Winblows 98". We've been playing it for the last decade and a half, for an hour a day, and unlike this terrible excuse for a CD-ROM, we never seem to run out of material. So far, only three things have been disqualified for going too far: the movies of Seltzer and Friedberg, a dentist getting the hiccups during root canal surgery, and the other parodies from creator Parroty Interactive: Star Warped, The X-Fools, and one of the few games to specifically spoof another: Pyst. Shudder.
Microshaft Winblows 98 is content to be the funniest thing this side of spelling Microsoft with a $ in the middle. It's not really a game, although it has a few of them in it, but more of an interactive comedy CD-ROM. The premise is that two Microsoft employees, Meg and Graham, have secretly put together this game to break into software development—Meg to stick it to the Man, Graham to gently poke fun at his idol, Billy G—and somehow you've found it on the network. Your challenge is to climb your way up the corporate ladder from the Tech Support department all the way to a meeting with Bill Gates himself, enduring enjoying riffs like the Microsoft slogan being "Who Does He Want To Own Today?"

        CLARIFICATION: Yes, that was supposed to be funny.
      
Almost from the start, you can smell the desperation. Winblows feels like a game that was agreed on, everyone involved high-fived each other, sat down to work, and froze as they realised how little material they actually had to work with. In fact, I imagine it going a little something like this.

        "Okay, so what's on our hit-list? Thing #1: Bill Gates is a nerd. Everyone OK with that?"
      

        "Definitely comedy value there, yep. And Microsoft... well, everyone knows they like money."
      

        "Not sure we can fill a whole disc with just corporate jokes. I know, let's do some hilarious TV parodies!"
      

        "Awesome! Um... how about Star Trek? Only instead of Trek, we'll say... Tech. Star Tech!"
      

        "Brilliant. Go write it. Don't make it too funny though!"
      
