
# Russell Paul resigns as acting SAFA CEO

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:42:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/BafanaBafana/russell-paul-resigns-as-acting-safa-ceo-20191105)

Cape Town - The South African Football Association (SAFA) on Tuesday announced that acting CEO Russell Paul has resigned from his position and will be replaced by SAFA vice-president Gay Mokoena.
Paul has left his position to take over as tournament director of the 2022 Qatar World Cup in the Middle East.
"It's a bittersweet moment," Paul said at a media briefing. "You've walked a long journey from the days of unity to this day. You have a lot to offer but this is not an opportunity that one can turn down.
"I've made a small contribution to SAFA. I want to thank everybody" Paul added.
Paul has filled the position of acting CEO since September 2018, when the soccer body decided against renewing the contract of former full-time CEO Dennis Mumble.
"Gay Mokwena, vice president of SAFA, we've asked him to act in the position of CEO so we can advertise the post or headhunt," SAFA president Danny Jordaan confirmed.
"As of today, as Russell Paul leaves, Gay Mokwena will take his position."
"Russell Paul has been at World Cups. He's worked in virtually all FIFA competitions. Of course, the Qatar World Cup will bring its own challenges but he will take his experience him. We wish him the best and appreciate his contribution to SAFA, " Jordaan added.

        
          Compiled by Baden Gillion
        
      
