
# Trump says the 'angry majority' supports him

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Agencies**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/news/world/trump-says-the-angry-majority-supports-him/articleshow/71872663.cms)

President Donald Trump said on Friday he believed an "angry majority" of American voters will support him against an impeachment inquiry as he sought to rally his supporters to voice their opposition to the Democratic attempt to oust him. At a packed arena in Tupelo, Mississippi, Trump aired his grievances at length a day after the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives voted formally to lay out the rules for the inquiry into Trump's attempt to get Ukraine to investigate his Democratic rival Joe Biden. "The American people are fed up with Democrat lies, hoaxes and extremism," said Trump. The Democrats, he said, "have created an angry majority that will vote many do-nothing Democrats out of office in 2020." Trump also voiced confidence that he will be able to defeat any Democrat who he ends up opposing in the November 2020 election. "We're kicking their ass," he said. Trump also addressed the Ukraine scandal swirling around him. He defended his July 25 phone call with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskiy that lies at the heart of the impeachment accusations against him. "Now I'm an honest person anyway, but do you think when I'm making a call to a newly elected president of a country that I would say something improper when I know so many people are listening on the line?" said Trump. Trump says Chad Wolf to be next acting DHS secretary President Donald Trump on Friday said Chad Wolf, a longtime Homeland Security official, would be the new acting head of the department, the fifth person in the job for this administration. There have been weeks of speculation over who would be named the next leader.
