
# Vivo Y5s announced in China; It's a rebranded Vivo Y19 - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:38:32+00:00**

Author: **Marco Lancaster**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/06/vivo-y5s-announced-in-china-its-a-rebranded-vivo-y19/)

Vivo Y5s announced in China; It’s a rebranded Vivo Y193 (60%) 2 votes
Vivo has announced today a new mid-range contender for the domestic market of China. The device in question carries the Vivo Y5s moniker, but you have been following the Chinese company in the Global scene you will be very familiar with it. Actually, the Y5s is a rebranded Vivo Y19, a device that was launched in Thailand and Vietnam during the last week.
Knowing this fact, there aren’t any differences. The Vivo Y5s bears the same 6.53″ FHD+ display with a teardrop notch atop housing the 16MP selfie snapper. Moving around to the back, we can easily spot a triple-camera setup. This particular setup comprises of 16MP main, 8MP ultrawide, and 2MP macro units. According to Vivo’s official information, the ultrawide cam allows you to capture pictures with a field of view of 120º. When it comes to the 2MP macro sensor, you’ll be able to capture objects from as close as 4cm.
Vivo’s romance with MediaTek continues with the Vivo Y5s since it sports the Helio P65 chipset. The horsepower is coupled with 6GB of RAM and 128GB of Internal Storage.  Software side, the handset runs Android 9 Pie-based FunTouch OS 9.2 straight out the box. If you’re familiarized with Vivo’s traditional skin, then you know that Game Cube, Multi Turbo, and AI-based digital assistant Jovi are making a comeback. Last but not least, the device draws power from a generous 5,000mAh battery with 18W fast-charging.
The Y5s will be sold in China for CNY1,498 ($215/€190). However, Vivo still needs to disclose when customers will be able to purchase it from their website or local retailers.
