
# UK fires warning to Iran after Royal Navy and Marines action

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:20:25+00:00**

Author: **Edd Moore**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/uk-fires-warning-iran-after-3509821)

The Foreign Secretary has warned that Iran's latest step away from the nuclear deal poses a risk to national security, in the wake of increased international tensions.
The latest statement from Dominic Raab follows Royal Navy operations in the summer which saw the Royal Navy involved in an operation that saw commandos board an Iranian tanker by helicopter off the Gibraltar coast.
Dominic Rabb said Iran's actions "clearly contravene" the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPoA) deal.
His warning comes after the Associated Press reported that the president of Iran announced that Tehran will begin injecting uranium gas into 1,044 centrifuges.
A centrifuge is a device that enriches uranium by rapidly spinning uranium hexafluoride gas.
President Donald Trump pulled the US out of the JCPoA - which aimed to curb Iran's ability to build a nuclear bomb - in May 2018 and later reimposed sanctions.
Since then, Iran has restarted enriching uranium - a material which could be used in manufacturing an atomic weapon - and in July breached limits agreed as part of the treaty.
The Foreign Secretary said: "Iran's latest actions clearly contravene the deal and pose a risk to our national security.
"We want to find a way forward through constructive international dialogue but Iran needs to stand by the commitments it made and urgently return to full compliance."
Relations between the UK and Iran were strained in July when Royal Marines boarded the Iranian-owned tanker Grace 1 by helicopter off Gibraltar where it was detained.
It followed calls by the US for the ship to be detained as they believed it was set to supply oil to Syria.
Weeks later, British-flagged oil tanker Stena Impero was seized by Iran after other ships travelling along the international shipping lane in the Strait of Hormuz were approached by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
