
# Lorde finally revealed why she won't be releasing new music soon, and the reason will break your heart

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:10:13+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Music/News/lorde-finally-revealed-why-she-wont-be-releasing-new-music-soon-and-the-reason-will-break-your-heart-20191104)

Cape Town – Lorde – who last released an album in 2017 titled Melodrama - has written a lengthy note to subscribers of her newsletter about the status of her next album and why it won't be coming as soon as fans would have hoped.
The reason for the delay, the singer, revealed was the death of her beloved dog, Pearl. In the note the creative also explained her extended silence on social networking platforms. 
The 22-year-old explained her relative silence over the past few years by writing: "When we first met, I would write little notes for you online, and they would form a big map that you would use to chart the constellations in my work. I realised a couple of years ago that I needed to rethink my relationship with posting random shit online all the time, so here we are, a little less in contact than we once were."
Then she went on to explain that her dog, Pearl, who she adopted in 2018, died last month. She wrote: "Pearl had two cardiac arrests about an hour apart, and after the second one, he died…I was holding him when he went, and I know he knew that I was there. But this loss has been indescribably painful, and a light that was turned on for me has gone out."
Then, the talented New Zealander, asked for patience so that she can deal with her loss and find a way forward.
She said in part: "So I'm asking for your patience, as 2020 comes around and you start to wonder where the next record is. I have lost my boy, and I need some time to see the good again, to finish making this for you. It won't be the same work— as anyone who has felt loss can understand, there's a door that opens that you step through, and everything is different on the other side. But when this great loss crystallises inside me, and my chest rebuilds around it, hopefully, I'll be able to finish up, and share it with you, and we'll all grow together, as we always do."
READ THE FULL NOTE FROM THE NEWSLETTER HERE:
