
# New Zealand vs Wales LIVE | Rugby World Cup

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:44:56+00:00**

Author: **RugbyPass**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/new-zealand-vs-wales-live-rugby-world-cup)

Follow all the action on the RugbyPass live blog from the World Cup bronze medal play-off match between New Zealand versus Wales in Tokyo. Keep up to date with the latest score, stats and join the conversation from anywhere in the world in our Live Match Centre (click here).
Ahead of the play-off, Wales captain Alun Wyn Jones said that Warren Gatland created expectation “that has gone through the roof” during his time as head coach.
Gatland’s twelve-year Wales reign ends with the bronze medal match and Jones, who has won 115 of his 133 Wales caps during the Gatland era, said: “He has created expectation – there is always expectation playing rugby for Wales – but that has gone through the roof in the last twelve years over his tenure. That is a privilege.
“He has always had one eye on that [Wales’ future]. He is fiercely loyal, not only to players but to the country and the job. When the pressure has come on, he has stuck to his guns. When you talk about change, he has been reluctant to do that at times and it has paid off.
“He’s had the Midas touch at times. It is a credit to him as a person – more than as a rugby coach or anything like that – that he wants to give the next (coaching) regime the best chance possible.

        (Continue reading below…)
      

        Click here to see the video
      
“It also puts the pressure on. That expectation is always going to be there. I can see him wanting to pave the way and for someone to carry on from the foundations he has set. I am fortunate to be involved in his tenure. He is one of, if not the most successful northern hemisphere coaches ever.
“Obviously, an appearance on Saturday (in the World Cup final) has eluded us. That would have been the jewel in the crown. From where we were in 2007 to where we are now – one quarter-final, two semi-finals, three Grand Slams and a Six Nations championship – it’s a far cry from where we were. Those markers speak volumes, rather than one individual performance.”
Jones will lead a much-changed Wales team into action against the All Blacks, with Wales having a twin incentive of equalling their best World Cup finish – third in 1987 – and chasing a first victory over New Zealand for 66 years. “The show goes on, doesn’t it? It’s not the show we wanted, but we have got to move on,” added 34-year-old Jones. “Make no bones about it, I am one of the eight to 10 (Wales players) who isn’t going to have another World Cup.
“From a selfish point of view I will acknowledge that, and that’s probably why this one (World Cup) meant so much. It is what it is. We have another game and a lot of the guys here will have another opportunity. I will be right behind them in whatever guise I have when that time comes around.
“When you are in this position, you want to do it for as long as possible. I’ve got a bit longer yet. The family is out here (in Japan) at the minute, so I will spend time with them and when we get back, sort some stuff out and reset the focus.”
Gatland’s counterpart Steve Hansen, who is stepping down as All Blacks coach following the play-off game in Tokyo, admitted that New Zealand’s character has been tested following their semi-final defeat against England. That result sent New Zealand to Tokyo, rather than contesting a third successive World Cup final in Yokohama on Saturday.
