
# Ricky Gervais gets huge backlash after saying he'd dress up as trans woman for Halloween

Published at: **2019-11-02T23:19:17+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/ricky-gervais-gets-huge-backlash-20799886)

Ricky Gervais is no stranger to a bit of Twitter controversy, but his latest joke has upset a lot of people.
The comedian, 58, joked that he'd be dressing up as transgender activist Jessica Yaniv for Halloween , calling her "weird and creepy" and tweeting an unflattering photo of her.
He posted: "I was going to dress up as something weird and creepy for my Halloween party, but I'm bucking the trend this year and I'm going as brave female activist Jessica Yaniv.
"This also means I don't have to wax my big old hairy balls."
Twitter users criticised him for poking fun, with one calling it "bigoted".
They tweeted: "Come Ricky. You've done some funny stuff over the years, but this is just odious and bigoted."
Another posted: "Ricky Gervais if you wanna do transphobic jokes that's fine, whatever, but can you at least try and come up with a new one."
A third said: "Learning @rickygervais is transphobic is so disappointing."
Noticing all the negative tweets, Ricky jokingly said he'd delete his post.
He tweeted: "This tweet upset some people yesterday so I think I should apologise and delete it and never make offensive jokes like this again."
Last month a human rights tribunal rejected Jessica's claim she was discriminated against when beauty therapists refused to wax her scrotum.
She had contacted multiple beauty salon businesses in British Columbia, Canada, requesting waxes.
A tribunal heard staff refused to perform the pubic hair removal procedure after she revealed she had a full set of male genitalia.
The British Columbia Human Rights Tribunal ruled she had gone on a campaign both to enrich herself at the expense of South Asians, and to punish them for what she viewed as transphobia.
Now she has been forced to pay the workers over the case- which saw one forced out of business as a result of Yaniv's claim.
The tribunal said Yaniv had had “manufactured the conditions for a human rights complaint” when she demanded bikini waxes from several salons despite still having a full set of male genitalia.
A number of the salon workers voiced religious objections to carrying out the procedures.
Others said they weren't appropriately trained in waxing a scrotum.
Because some of the salons in question had never offered services to wax anyone's scrotum, the tribunal said, it could not be said to be discriminating against Ms Yaniv.
