
# Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp urged to drop really average Mohamed Salah

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:30:41+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-boss-jurgen-klopp-urged-20812241)

Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has been urged to drop Mohamed Salah by Sky Sports pundit Charlie Nicholas.
The former Arsenal star branded the Egyptian's performance against Aston Villa on Sunday "really average" as the Reds needed two late goals to snatch a 2-1 win.
Klopp's side take on Genk in the Champions League on Tuesday night before turning their attentions to a huge clash with title rivals Manchester City next weekend.
And Nicholas reckons Klopp should consider removing Salah from the starting line-up as he also expressed concerns over the performances of Roberto Firmino after some "reality checks" already this season.
"I watched the Liverpool game at the weekend. It was a cracking game and end-to-end with drama too," Nicholas told Sky Sports.
"Liverpool are not at their best. People might suggest that once they get going, they will be ruthless, but they are getting away with it currently.
"The Napoli and Manchester United matches were reality checks, but they could have been two or three down by the time they rescued things at Aston Villa.
"Liverpool have a huge amount of games coming up. Mohamed Salah was really average at the weekend, as was Roberto Firmino, so Jurgen Klopp may leave a couple out and change it up.
"The full-backs will stay the same and you have to leave Sadio Mane in, but Fabinho could also come back in.
"It is normally Firmino who he rests, but I would leave him in with Mane and leave Salah out. He may not like it but it needs to happen.
"Divock Origi and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain will come in and I think it will be a fairly comfortable night nevertheless for Liverpool."
