
# Xiaomi Mi Watch goes official and runs a MIUI-skinned version of Wear OS

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:52:26+00:00**

Author: **Damien Wilde**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/05/xiaomi-mi-watch/)

The Xiaomi Mi Watch has now been officially unveiled, with the Wear OS-powered smartwatch bearing a striking resemblance to the Apple Watch.
Despite the copycat looks, the Xiaomi Mi Watch will actually come with a “MIUI for watch” skin atop the more commonly seen Wear OS. This makes the smartwatch an interesting prospect, as there are very few smartwatches — if any — that include a skinned version of the OS available right now.
Xiaomi is calling this forked version of Wear OS “MIUI for Watch” — which is a little on the nose but it does make sense. There are 40 Chinese apps designed specifically for the new hardware too. Some of those include TikTok and QQ Messenger but it’s unclear if there are any Google apps pre-installed.
We’re not exactly sure how Xiaomi is pulling off a “skin” on Wear OS since Google doesn’t allow for major modifications such as this. It seems possible the company is using an app that launches at start-up on the Mi Watch and takes over the experience. The company does something similar with “Patchwall” on its Mi TVs in India. It’s also possible Xiaomi pulled off some kind of deal with Google to do this, but for now, we just don’t know.
[Update]: There appears to be some mention of Google Play within the boot screen of the Xiaomi Mi Watch, as you can see through the short hands-on video below but it’s still unclear if the MIUI skin/launcher loads just after boot — but the initial load is quite substantial.
