
# POLITICO Playbook PM: Pelosi anticipates public impeachment hearings this month

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:18:15+00:00**

Author: **Anna Palmer, Jake Sherman, Eli Okun, Garrett Ross**

Original: [POLITICO](https://www.politico.com/newsletters/playbook-pm/2019/11/01/pelosi-anticipates-public-impeachment-hearings-this-month-487573)

Presented by
NATIONALS GENERAL MANAGER MIKE RIZZO will appear exclusively on “FOX NEWS SUNDAY” with Chris Wallace this week. Yes, the World Series trophy is coming with him. Rizzo will appear live on the power player of the week segment.
AND THE NATS are going to the White House on Monday at 1:15 p.m., per WaPo’s David Nakamura. … This is a quick turnaround for a champion. The Nats’ parade is Saturday in D.C. A parade what-you-need-to-know
JOBS REPORT -- “U.S. added a solid 128,000 jobs in October despite GM strike,” by AP’s Josh Boak and Bani Sapra: “The unemployment rate ticked up from 3.5% to 3.6%, still near a five-decade low. And for a second straight month, average hourly wages rose a decent if less-than-robust 3% from a year ago. The government also revised up its estimate of job growth for August and September by a combined 95,000, suggesting a healthier employment market than many had thought.
“All told, Friday’s October employment report from the government pointed to a still-sturdy job market that remains a vital source of strength for a U.S. economy that’s been weakened by trade wars and a global slowdown. The healthy level of hiring also makes it less likely that the Federal Reserve, which cut short-term interest rates this week for a third time this year, will do so again anytime soon.” AP
NEW … BLOOMBERG: “Pelosi Expects Public Impeachment Hearings to Begin This Month": “House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Friday she expects the Democratic-led impeachment inquiry of President Donald Trump to begin public hearings this month but insisted there’s no deadline to finish the investigation.
“‘I would assume there would be public hearing in November,’ Pelosi said in a roundtable with Bloomberg reporters and editors. Any case that is made to impeach the president ‘has to be ironclad.’”
-- ALSO FROM THE BLOOMBERG SITDOWN … PELOSI ON USMCA: “We’re on a path to yes, and I think every day brings us closer to agreement. I’d like to have it done as soon as it’s ready. I wouldn’t rule it out next year. Hopefully we can do it sooner, but I said when it’s ready we’ll do it.” Bloomberg
SPOTTED: Jim Comey, John Delaney and Tom Perez getting on the nonstop from DCA to Des Moines today. Comey and Delaney flew in first class. Comey wore headphones and was not talking to anyone … Outgoing U.S. Ambassador to Russia Jon Huntsman walking into the State Department’s 23rd Street entrance this morning. … Denis McDonough at Call Your Mother this morning. Pic
THE POLICY PRIMARY -- “Warren tries to go on offense with $20.5 trillion Medicare for All plan,” by Alice Miranda Ollstein and Alex Thompson: “The plan relies on an expected mix of tax increases on the wealthy, deep cuts to military spending and payments to doctors, projected savings from a more streamlined national system, payments from employers who would no longer have to provide health care to their workers and — the heaviest lift — comprehensive immigration reform. The proposal was outlined and evaluated for the campaign by several prominent economists and former government officials. …
“The most sweeping and controversial piece of her additions to [Bernie] Sanders’ bill is a pledge to pay all physicians current Medicare rates — which are much lower than private insurance rates but higher than Medicaid — and to pay hospitals slightly above Medicare rates. She argues that doctors will save money overall because they’ll be able to dedicate the hours they currently spend billing a swath of interlocking private and public insurance plans to providing care.” POLITICO

        Happy Friday afternoon.
      
THE BEN TERRIS TREATMENT … WAPO: “Adam Schiff once wanted to be a screenwriter. Can he give the Trump presidency a Hollywood ending?”: “When Adam B. Schiff was a young assistant U.S. attorney living in Los Angeles, he did what everyone does when they move to Hollywood. He wrote a screenplay.
“He spent hours at the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, reading the scripts for ‘Silence of the Lambs’ and ‘Witness’ in the library (it was the ’90s). He leaned on his courtroom experience, thinking back on snippets of dialogue during trials as he typed out a crime thriller. The prosecutor was the hero, naturally. He called it ‘Minotaur,’ and, if you ask Schiff, it was pretty good.
“‘I got an offer of an option from Nick Wechsler,’ Schiff said, leaning back in a leather chair inside his Capitol Hill office late last month. ‘He produced ‘The Player,’ remember that movie with Tim Robbins?’ Schiff turned down the offer, he said. He doesn’t remember it being a huge sum of money, and anyway, he was getting into a different kind of storytelling business: politics.” WaPo
SARAH KARLIN-SMITH: “Trump to pick Texas cancer doctor to head FDA”: “If confirmed by the Senate, the top FDA post would mark Hahn's first foray into public service in a quarter of a century. … The Trump administration is expected to announce Hahn’s selection later this afternoon.” POLITICO
AP/BERLIN: “U.N. climate office confirms that December's global climate meeting will take place in Madrid, after Chile cancellation.”
DAILY RUDY -- “Rudy Had a Secret Meeting With Zelensky’s Rival, Too,” by The Daily Beast’s Sam Stein and Erin Banco: “The meeting with former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko took place on Dec. 5, 2018 in the U.S. and was set up with the help of two former Republican members of Congress. And it suggests that Giuliani’s involvement in Ukraine policy was more extensive than previously understood and involved more individuals than previously appreciated. …
“Several sources said that among the topics discussed were U.S. military aid and future U.S.-Ukraine relations. And a source familiar with the arrangement told The Daily Beast the Tymoshenko meeting was brief, came at Giuliani’s request, that the attorney was ‘trolling for business,’ and that Tymoshenko wanted to share ‘her substantive vision of Ukraine.’ … The person who set up that meeting was former congressman Bob McEwen.” Daily Beast
KFILE -- “Videos show indicted Giuliani associate standing behind Trump at 2018 rally,” by CNN’s Andrew Kaczynski, Em Steck and Nathan McDermott: “In the videos, [Lev] Parnas sits in the area directly behind Trump before and during the rally. Parnas, who at times is wearing a blue hat and glasses, can be seen apparently taking a video of the President on his cellphone as he walks up the stairs to the stage.” CNN
365 days and counting. We are officially one year away from Election Day 2020. Are you ready for the most important election of our lifetime? POLITICO Pro is gearing up by adding more news, more tools, better technology, all in one platform that is designed just for you. Learn more about how Pro gives you an edge in 2020 and beyond.
PAGING DAVE JORGENSON -- REUTERS SCOOP: “U.S. opens national security investigation into TikTok,” by Greg Roumeliotis, Yingzhi Yang, Echo Wang and Alexandra Alper: “The U.S. government has launched a national security review of TikTok owner Beijing ByteDance Technology Co’s $1 billion acquisition of U.S. social media app Musical.ly …
“While the $1 billion acquisition was completed two years ago, U.S. lawmakers have been calling in recent weeks for a national security probe into TikTok, concerned the Chinese company may be censoring politically sensitive content, and raising questions about how it stores personal data. … TikTok did not seek clearance from [the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.] when it acquired Musical.ly, [sources] added, which gives the U.S. security panel scope to investigate it now.” Reuters
2020 WATCH -- GABBY ORR: “Behind Trump’s 2020 fight: Women trying to rescue an underwater president”: “Gone are the days of the Trump campaign’s boys club. … Campaign manager Brad Parscale holds [Kellyanne] Conway’s old job this time around, but he’s surrounded by more than a dozen women involved at the highest levels of the president’s 2020 campaign — from senior advisers and his national press secretary to the director of coalitions and the head of operations.
“The strategy behind Trump’s sizable female staff is simple: optimize the campaign’s outreach to suburban women — an enormously important voting bloc — by having women oversee the outreach themselves. … [T]he atmosphere of the Trump campaign has also changed to accommodate its growing number of female staffers. Long nights in a makeshift headquarters at Trump Tower have been replaced with flexible hours from the campaign’s top-dollar Virginia base camp — or from home, depending on individual staffers’ needs. Pre-debate visits to Las Vegas strip clubs have been replaced with daily strategy sessions.” POLITICO
-- AND ON THE DEM SIDE … “The Women Changing Presidential Campaigns from the Inside,” by Caitlin Moscatello for Glamour: “Almost a year after a record number of women won elected offices throughout the country (buoyed by female voters), there seems to be an understanding among presidential hopefuls that if you want to win, you better have women on your side—and on your staff. …
“Already, this increase in women’s representation behind the scenes has had an impact on campaign culture—and understandably so. It would be hypocritical for any candidate to talk about the need for better leave policies or equal pay on the debate stage, but not offer them to his or her staff. And so this has also pushed campaigns to become better workplaces.” Glamour
-- “Castro meets fundraising goal to stay in 2020 race,” by Nolan McCaskill
FIRST NYT/SIENA POLL OF IOWA -- “Warren Leads Tight Iowa Race as Biden Fades, Poll Finds,” by NYT’s Alex Burns: “Ms. Warren is drawing support from 22 percent of likely caucusgoers, while Mr. Sanders is at 19 percent, followed by Mr. Buttigieg at 18 percent and Mr. Biden at 17 percent. The survey is full of alarming signs for Mr. Biden … The poll reveals a race in flux but not in disarray, framed by a stark debate about the direction of the Democratic Party and by a degree of fluidity arising from Mr. Biden’s travails.” NYT
POLITICO’s ENERGY PODCAST sponsored by Chevron: A new, daily five-minute update on the latest in energy and environmental politics and policy - must-know stories and candid insights from POLITICO’s 10-person energy team and journalists across our newsroom. Ways to listen: Via your email - click the link in the POLITICO Morning Energy newsletter, or subscribe for free - click here and follow the link for your podcast player.
WATCH OUT, TULSI! -- “Syria’s Assad calls Trump the ‘most transparent president,’” by Quint Forgey: “‘I tell you he’s the best American president. Why? Not because his policies are good, but because he’s the most transparent president,’ Assad said in a state television interview, according to a translation of his remarks by NBC News.
“‘All American presidents commit crimes and end up taking the Nobel Prize and appear as a defender of human rights and the “unique” and “brilliant” American or Western principles,’ he continued, ‘but all they are is a group of criminals who only represent the interests of the American lobbies of large corporations in weapons, oil and others.’ Assad asserted that Trump, however, ‘speaks with transparency to say, “We want the oil,”’ adding: ‘What do we want more than a transparent foe?’” POLITICO … The clip, via NBC
SYRIA RIPPLE EFFECTS -- “U.S. Troop Withdrawal Creates Opening for Revitalized Syrian Regime,” by WSJ’s Raja Abdulrahim: “Syrian President Bashar al-Assad clawed back control over much of his country with the help of Russia and Iran. Now he is poised to take back much of the rest—in large part because of the U.S. … While some residents have greeted the return of the regime as a bulwark against the Turkish offensive, many others fear what the return of an Assad police state will mean for the thousands in the northeast who are wanted for opposing the regime or refusing mandatory conscription. …
“Still, the return of government forces to parts of northeastern Syria helps bolster Mr. Assad’s claim that his regime is the only viable government for the country. It also undermines U.S. efforts to prevent regional states from normalizing relations with the once pariah state.” WSJ
AMID THE VAPING CRACKDOWN -- “As Trump tackles vapes, African Americans feel stung by inaction on menthol cigarettes,” by WaPo’s Hannah Knowles and Laurie McGinley: “Trump’s unexpected assault on flavored e-cigarettes has resurrected a complicated, years-old debate over tobacco regulation, racial equity and health. Is the government wrongly ignoring another flavored nicotine product that poses particular dangers to African Americans? Or would it be discriminatory to ban a flavor so popular among blacks?
“Some black leaders say a ban on menthol cigarettes would be paternalistic, robbing African American smokers of their right to choose which products to use. Others, including many black health advocates, counter that it’s racist not to ban a dangerous product pushed for years by what they call predatory, racially targeted marketing.” WaPo
TRADE WAR TRANSITION -- “White House picks Thomas Storch as new senior trade adviser,” by Reuters’ Steve Holland: “Storch, who was part of a high-level delegation to Bahrain for Middle East peace talks earlier this year, fills the role left open by Kelly Ann Shaw … He was previously senior director for global economics, finance and development at the National Security Council (NSC) with a portfolio that included the G7 and G20 as well as international financial institutions. He was also a senior official at the Trump Energy Department.”
TV TONIGHT -- Bob Costa sits down with Jake, WSJ’s Vivian Salama, CBS’ Nancy Cordes and NYT’s Peter Baker at 8 p.m. on PBS’ “Washington Week.”
WELCOME TO THE WORLD -- Lindsey Carlasare, research manager at the American Medical Association, and Joe Carlasare, a partner at SmithAmundsen, recently welcomed Benedetto Thomas Carlasare. Pic
