
# Norris claims McLaren are slower than Renault in races!

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:43:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Newton**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49571/norris-claims-mclaren-are-slower-than-renault-in-races-.html)


        Lando Norris says that McLaren have weaker race pace than rivals Renault, despite comfortably outscoring them so far in the 2019 season. Norris has scored 41 of McLaren's 121 points this season, 38 more than Renault have managed.
      
The McLaren duo of Norris and the very talented Carlos Sainz has been a terrific one this year, with the Brit believing the pair have pushed each other to reach higher levels.
The United States Grand Prix was expected to be a poor event for McLaren, but they ended up scoring a double points finish for the sixth time this season to consolidate their position in fourth in the constructors' standings.
In quotes that first appeared on GPToday.net, Norris said: "The other teams are strong, I can't say we're much stronger. Being honest, between Carlos and myself, how we work together and how we push each other, I personally think it's better and helps us more than other teams.

        "I think we have that advantage. And as a quali-spec car, we are stronger or the car works better with the new tyres and we can extract more. 
      

        "But when it gets to the race, it's different. We were slower than Renault, probably quicker than the rest of the teams. But we lose that advantage that we have in qualifying which was four/five-tenths, to be two/three tenths slower than them."
      
