
# Grace Millane's heartbreaking last message to her family before she was killed

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:20:14+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/grace-millanes-heartbreaking-last-message-20821505)

The last message British backpacker Grace Millane sent to her family before she was killed in New Zealand has been revealed.
Grace shared a picture of a Christmas tree with her relatives back home in the UK on December 1 last year, the day before her 22nd birthday.
The photograph, taken at Sky City hotel in Auckland, New Zealand, was the final thing she sent to her family, who she kept in contact with on a daily basis.
Her alleged killer, who cannot be named for legal reasons, has pleaded not guilty to her murder and began his trial in Auckland today.
Grace was found dead in a suitcase in bushland on December 9.
A statement from her father David Millane was read out in court today.
He described his 'Gracie' as gregarious and said she regularly messaged the family.
"The three children would have a lot of banter going on and were particularly good at staying in contact," he said.
"We heard from Grace virtually every day ... she seemed to be having a fabulous time."
Grace's brother Michael previously said the family thought it was odd when Grace failed to reply to their texts on her birthday.
"We thought maybe it's just the time zone, sort of catching up, but we looked into it and realised her messages hadn't been read or delivered," he said.
Prosecutors claim Grace was strangled to death by a 27-year-old man she met through the dating app Tinder.
The defendant's defence team argue she died by accident when a consensual sex act went wrong.
The alleged killer stands accused of murdering the Brit and then stuffing her body into a suitcase, which he is said to have buried in a shallow grave.
The backpacker's parents came face-to-face with her alleged killer in court.
The defendant broke down in tears and blew his nose when he heard her dad's evidence.
The defendant was taken out of the courtroom when he said he felt unwell, though later returned for the hearing to continue.
The trial is expected to last a month.
