
# Appeal Court upholds Gobir’s election as Sokoto senator

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:00:54+00:00**

Author: **Agency Report**

Original: [Premium Times Nigeria](https://www.premiumtimesng.com/regional/nwest/361123-appeal-court-upholds-gobirs-election-as-sokoto-senator.html)

The Court of Appeal in Sokoto on Tuesday upheld the election of Ibrahim Gobir as the senator representing Sokoto East.
The court dismissed the appeal filed by Salihu Maidaji of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) against the judgment of the National and State House of Assembly Election Petition Tribunal.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the Tribunal had on September 10 dismissed the petition of Maidaji challenging the election of Gobir of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the March 9 elections.
Unsatisfied with the tribunal ruling, Mr Maidaji, the immediate past Speaker of the Sokoto State House of Assembly, approached the Appeal Court challenging the judgement of the lower court.
In their judgement, the three-man panel led by Justice Ibrahim Saulawa, whose judgment was read by Justice Hamma Akawu, said the Appeal Court upheld the judgment of the Tribunal.
Justice Akawu said the judgment of the tribunal that the petition was statute-barred, as it was filed out of time, was affirmed by the Appeal Court and the appeal was subsequently dismissed.
NAN reports that the panel also dismissed the petition by Ibrahim Sarki (PDP- Sokoto North II), challenging the tribunal’s judgment that ordered for a supplementary election for the Sokoto North II state constituency in the House of Assembly.
Mr Sarkia, a serving member in the state House of Assembly, contested against Hussaini Faru of the APC in the 2019 general election, and on September 9, the Tribunal ordered for a supplementary election in six polling units of the constituency.
Delivering the judgment, the presiding judge, Justice Saulawa said the appeal lacked merit and the judgement of the lower court was upheld.
NAN reports that the panel of Justices, which comprised Justices Saulawa, Akawu and Fatima Akinbanmi, were unanimous in their decision.
(NAN)
