
# Bare bones of this flyover are exposed

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Sridhar Vivan**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/bare-bones-of-this-flyover-are-exposed/articleshow/71912465.cms)

The pothole-ridden MES Road Flyover is now a scary sight as tar has chipped off and the steel rods underneath are exposed Is the MES Road flyover (between Goraguntepalya and BEL circle) going the Sumanahalli flyover way? Without doubt this flyover is already among the worst flyovers in the city if not in the country. The entire three-lane flyover is riddled with potholes and has become a source of traffic jams on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) that connects Hebbal and Tumkur Road. And now, the tar and concrete have chipped from a section and the steel used in the flyover construction is exposed. Many are scared to use the flyover now as they fear that this flyover may come crumbling down too. A test drive by BM showed that the flyover has suffered from lack of maintenance. There are numerous potholes all across the flyover. According to traffic expert MN Sreehari, any road (blacktopped) should have a life of three to five years, while white-topped road should have a life of 10-plus years; without any need for repairs. “It is a clear case of use of sub-standard material. It also looks like the mandatory construction procedures like heating of the bitumen, compacting each layer and maintaining optimum temperature has led to the poor condition. The reinforcement rods are used for transferring the stress and load. But due to the poor construction work, the concrete has come out and the rods are exposed.” The six-lane ORR narrows down to less than a four-lane road between BEL Circle and Tumkur Road (Goraguntepalya). This road is through the busy Yeshwanthpur-Tumkur railway line and the frequent closure of the railway gate used to create traffic jams. After the railways built a Yeshwanthpur by-pass track (which road users had to cross two railway tracks in a short distance) which only created bigger jams. After some land acquisition hassle, the BDA managed to build a three-lane flyover (another arm of the flyover work is still pending). Frequent movement of heavy vehicles and the recent rainfall eroded the upper surface (tar) on the flyover. Ranjit Reddy, a frequent user of this flyover, said, “It looks like the flyover has been constructed with poor building materials. It is high time that a safety audit is conducted for this flyover.” Sneha R, a techie, said, “As this flyover has been made bi-directional, there are only one-and-a-half lanes available for use. As trucks use the flyover most of the time, there are jams. Sadly, we have no alternative road available.” THE PROBLEM FLYOVERS* Sirsi Circle flyover: The city’s first flyover is in a mess. Numerous repairs are short-lived * KR Puram flyover: The city’s first ‘hanging bridge’ is now a low-maintenance flyover with numerous potholes* Nayandahalli flyover: The flyover is in a bad shape and filled with potholes * Sumanahalli flyover: The flyover was in the news recently for being the first flyover in the city to have come crumbling and leaving behind a hole on the road* Nayandahalli underpass: This underpass is in a bad shape with roads eroding at most of the places and poor lighting makes matters worse * Kadirenahalli underpass: This flyover took a ‘record’ time for completion and even today it is a very tough ride due to numerous potholes* Cauvery underpass: The city’s first ‘fastest’ underpass has been in a mess for a long time. Most of the time, sewage keeps overflowing below the flyover* CNR Rao underpass: This underpass has no proper drainage facility and instead of repairing the drains, the BBMP has conveniently asphalted the drain portion thereby creating a ungainly hump
