
# Pollok 0 Kilwinning Rangers 1: Carlo Monti's moment of magic sends Buffs five points clear at top of West Premiership

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:21:59+00:00**

Author: **Eric McGowan, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/eric-mcgowan/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/pollok-0-kilwinning-rangers-1-20797226)

Kilwinning Rangers moved five points clear at the top of the West Premiership as Carlo Monti's stunning second half free-kick poleaxed Pollok at Newlandsfield.
Former Lok favourite Monti found the top corner with a curling effort from just outside the box to make it four league wins on the spin for Chris Strain's side.
It was a moment of magic in an otherwise edgy affair that saw few clear cut chances at either end.
The hosts pushed hard for an equaliser in the closing stages but couldn't find a way past a resolute Buffs backline superbly marshalled all afternoon by centre-backs David Syme and Tommy Maitland.
Kilwinning arrived in Glasgow with a two point advantage and game in hand over their rivals.
 
The pressure was on Pollok to perform and they made a bright start, Paul Gallagher forcing David Markey into an early save with a header from a deflected free kick.
Kilwinning took time to find their feet, Monti dragging their first effort on goal wide of the post in 11 minutes.
Two minutes later Ben Lewis' diving header from Dean Agnew's cross was brilliantly turned round the post by Lok keeper Josh Lumsden.
Markey then came to his side's rescue with an equally fine stop to deny Chris Duff on the counter attack.
Gary Fleming was next to threaten for the visitors with a driving run from midfield but his shot from 25 yards was wayward.
At the other end, an Adam Forde free kick just cleared the crossbar before Gallagher tugged the last chance of the first half past the post.
 
Pollok started the second half strongly and in 49 minutes Markey made a tremendous block to keep out Iain Russell's close range effort after initially spilling a shot from distance.
Buffs replied with an Alex McWaters free kick that was just beyond the reach of Mikey Hewitt at the back post.
Other than that, there was very little in the way of goalmouth action until Monti made the breakthrough in 73 minutes.
Kilwinning were awarded a free kick 22 yards from goal after Gallagher came through the back of Lewis and Monti steadied himself before beating Lumsden all ends up with a curling cracker into the top corner.
Pollok threw caution to the wind in the final five minutes but the closest they came to an equaliser was a Shaun Fraser header that dropped the wrong side of the crossbar.
