
# Bevin campaign formally asks for a recanvass in Kentucky

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:25:27+00:00**

Author: **Steve Brusk and Adam Levy, CNN**

Original: [CHANNEL3000](https://www.channel3000.com/news/politics/national-politics/bevin-campaign-formally-asks-for-a-recanvass-in-kentucky/1139653614)

(CNN) - The campaign for Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin is officially requesting the commonwealth to recanvass the votes from Tuesday's election.
"With last night's election too close to call and multiple reports of voting irregularities, Governor Matt Bevin's campaign is formally requesting an official recanvass," the campaign said in a statement.
A gubernatorial candidate can request a recanvass of the vote, but not a full recount. A recanvass is a reprint of the receipts from voting machines that can then be checked. There is no threshold to request a recanvass.
Democratic Attorney General Andy Beshear claimed victory Tuesday night in the race, but Bevin refused to concede and vowed to continue fighting. With 99% of precincts reporting, Beshear was leading by fewer than 5,000 votes.
Bevin aligned himself with President Donald Trump and has been a vocal opponent of the impeachment inquiry into the President. Bevin had the strong backing of the President, and Trump held a rally in Lexington, Kentucky, the night before the election.
"The people of Kentucky deserve a fair and honest election. With reports of irregularities, we are exercising the right to ensure that every lawful vote was counted," said Davis Paine, Bevin's campaign manager.
Bevin first told reporters Tuesday night that his campaign had seen irregularities in voting, but he has not presented any evidence to support those claims.
Eric Hyers, campaign manager for Beshear, said the recanvass would not change the result.
"Last night, the people of Kentucky elected Andy Beshear as their next governor," Hyers said in a statement. "Today, Governor-Elect Beshear is already working on his transition so that he can best serve the people of Kentucky on day one. We hope that Matt Bevin honors the results of the recanvass, which will show he received fewer votes than Andy Beshear. As has been reported, a 'recanvassing has never changed the result of a Kentucky election.' "

        This is a breaking story and will be udpated.
      
