
# China’s private company bond default rate doubles to 12%: CICC

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:00:35+00:00**

Author: **Bloomberg**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/chinas-private-company-bond-default-rate-doubles-12-cicc)

HONG KONG (Nov 4): China’s private companies have been hit disproportionately hard as the economy slows, with their default rate doubling to 12% this year, compared with 1.5% for the overall domestic bond market, according to China International Capital Corp.
Since the first onshore bond default in 2014, 93 private firms have defaulted on 278.7b yuan (US$39.7 billion) bonds as of Oct 29, compared to their outstanding onshore bonds of 2.4 trillion yuan, CICC said in a report on Friday. The private company default rate in China was 6.2% last year and close to 2% in 2017, it said.
“POEs in general have more limited funding access and they are more susceptible to changes in financing policies,” CICC credit analysts led by Xu Yan said in the report. “This year, in particular, cases of financial reporting flaws such as Kangmei Pharmaceutical have heightened investors’ risk-off sentiment towards POE bonds.”
Defaults among the country’s private firms has remained high, despite regulators’ attempts to help the sector. In March, Guo Shuqing, the country’s chief financial regulator, pledged stronger banking support to aid the private sector. Banks have ramped up loans toward the private firms this year, but with a bias for top-tier names. Click here to read more. Out of 35 firms that defaulted on local bonds only this year, 30 were from the private sector, CICC said. It estimated that the private sector default rate would be at 15.79%, if theirother outstanding notes were included. Many of the onshore corporate bonds don’t carry a cross-default clause, which means a default on one bond by a company won’t trigger a default on its other debt.
CICC noted a slight rise in the number of companies going through bankruptcy proceedings this year, amid policymakers’ calls to adopt a court-led process. Twelve bond issuers’ bankruptcy restructuring have been accepted by court including Dandong Port Group, up from 10 firms in 2018, it said.
