
# Russell Martin appointed MK Dons boss as former Rangers defender takes on tall task

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:20:21+00:00**

Author: **Liam Bryce, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/liam-bryce/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/russell-martin-appointed-mk-dons-20801542)

Former Scotland and Rangers defender Russell Martin has been appointed MK Dons manager.
The English League Two club parted company with Paul Tisdale on Saturday night and have moved quickly to find a replacement.
Martin, 33, earned coaching badges during the summer after joining Dons on a short-term deal in January, and has made 16 appearances this season.
He's now been tasked with dragging the club out of the relegation zone, a challenge the centre-back is relishing.
He told the MK Dons website: "I’m excited and proud to have been given this opportunity to become manager of MK Dons.
"Football management is something that I’ve been preparing for, for a long time and this is an opportunity I’m ready to take on. “I would like to thank Paul Tisdale for bringing me to the football club and for his hard work during my time here. We will always remember celebrating that special moment at the end of last season. “I must also thank Pete Winkelman and the board for placing their trust in me. I accept their challenge to improve on the recent results and the current league position, and I will give everything I’ve got to repay their faith. “We’ve got work to do and we will need everyone working as one in order to achieve what we want to achieve – players, staff and fans included. We will turn this around together."
Martin spent much of his career in England, a brief loan stint at Ibrox from Norwich City aside.
The Brighton-born defender was also capped 29 times by Scotland.
