
# ‘Riverdale’: Is Jughead really dead?

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:04:34+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/blogs/tv-blogs/riverdale-season-4-is-jughead-dead-2563544)


        Spoilers for 'Chapter Sixty-One: Halloween' ahead!
      
Things never stay quiet for long in the town of Riverdale. Last week’s episode saw Alice Cooper shoot Edgar Evernever, potentially ridding the community of mysterious cult ‘The Farm’ for good.
But of course the calm didn’t last long, and this week’s episode, Chapter Sixty-One: Halloween, was filled with creepy Halloween drama. This latest instalment opens on the town’s inhabitants receiving video tapes that show their houses under surveillance. Sheriff FP Jones’ (Skeet Ulrich) is trying to work out who’s responsible for the creepy footage.
Elsewhere, other characters are dealing with their own demons. Betty Cooper (Lili Reinhart) is receiving mysterious phone calls from somebody pretending to be the Black Hood (turns out it’s her sister Polly who’s responsible), Jughead Jones (Cole Sprouse) is being harassed by students at his new school (who lock him in a coffin overnight), Veronica (Camila Mendes) welcomes a man into the diner who tries to murder her (turns out he’s an escaped patient from Shady Grove who’s a known serial killer) and Cheryl (Madelaine Petsch) and Toni (Vanessa Morgan) re-bury Jason’s body (with Cheryl worrying that Jason’s ghost will now haunt their house). In other news, Archie (KJ Apa) is trying to throw a Halloween party at his community centre which local thug Dodger turns up at and shoots a local kid.
