
# Lamborghini announces Urus ST-X race debut

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:01:30+00:00**

Author: **William Stopford**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/804608/lamborghini-announces-urus-st-x-race-debut/)

- shares
Lamborghini’s motorsport division, Lamborghini Squadra Corse, has released more details about the racing debut of its Urus ST-X.
The first race, designed specifically for the ST-X, is scheduled for the 2020 World Finals in Misano Adriatico. Winners of the four classes of the Lamborghini Super Trofeo will be given the opportunity to challenge famous motorcycle and race car drivers on a “special track”.
Lamborghini Squadra Corse has previously said Urus ST-X racing would be a “single-brand championship that will mix track with off-road racing”, so expect that special track to continue off the asphalt.
The Urus ST-X has been equipped with FIA-approved safety features such as a steel roll cage, fire suppression system and FT3 fuel tank.
Those aren’t the only modifications. Lamborghini is claiming a 25 per cent reduction in weight compared to a stock Urus. Part of that weight saving can be attributed to a new carbon fibre bonnet, while other modifications include a larger, carbon fibre rear spoiler, a racing exhaust system, and additional air intakes.
The ST-X’s engine is the same as the showroom Urus – a burly twin-turbo 4.0-litre V8 producing 480kW and 850Nm and mated to an eight-speed automatic transmission.
To finish it off, the Urus has been painted in Lamborghini Squadra Corse’s lurid Verde Mantis livery. There’s no missing Lamborghini’s “super SUV”, as it calls it, and its racing debut promises to be a must-see.
12
nextpreviousLamborghini announces Urus ST-X race debut
