
# BMW 118i M Sport review: New 1-Series hatchback consigns rear drive to history

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:12:14+00:00**

Author: **Colin Goodwin, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/colin-goodwin/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/motoring/car-reviews/bmw-118i-m-sport-review-20824658)

BMW used to say proper cars driven by true enthusiasts should be rear-wheel drive.
All through the late 1980s and 90s it produced adverts that said as much.
And then in 2014 BMW launched the 2-Series Active Tourer.
It was dull to drive and – horror – was front-wheel drive.
Around about the same time BMW carried out some research and discovered that four out of five buyers of the 1-Series hatchback didn’t give a hoot that it was rear-wheel drive.
So now we have a new 1-Series that is front-wheel drive.
Sacrilege... or a better car because of it?
To me the 1-Series never made sense as a rear-wheel drive car. It was heavier than it needed to be and the packaging was poor because of the way the engines were mounted.
I didn’t much like the look of it either.
This new BMW 1-Series is based on the same platform as the Mini Clubman and ­Countryman, as well as family members the X1 and X2.
The old 1-Series came with four and six-cylinder engines – the new car has a choice of three or four-cylinder units, diesel and petrol.
There’s still a powerful version that’s called the 135i, powered by a 2.0-litre turbocharged motor that produces 300bhp.
This hot version of the 1-Series is four-wheel drive, as is the most powerful 120d model.
The 135i is a natural rival to Mercedes-Benz’s A35 and Volkswagen’s Golf R but we’re going to check out the 118i which, along with the 118d, is going to be the volume seller.
In its M Sport trim it costs £26,715 but with the options loaded on to our test car it costs £37,500 – which is far too expensive.
It looks considerably better than the old one. The proportions are neater and the grille, while not as domineering as some of BMW’s latest designs, looks dynamic.
But the big change is inside. There’s now considerably more legroom at the back. You’ve got a quality ­interior with the option of more brighter colours than before.
This BMW is going to be bought by younger customers.
The dashboard doesn’t have the expanse of touch-screens available on a Mercedes A-Class but there’s still a wide range of tech, much of it optional.
Our car has the digital instrument panel option that’s part of the Technology Pack 2 (£1,500) but I’d do without it and stick with the standard, very easy to read (unlike the digital instruments), analogue circular dials. I’d also skip the pointless gesture control.
One option that is interesting is the Touring fuel tank. It adds an extra eight litres of fuel capacity and costs only £50.
Tick that box.
The 1.5-litre three-cylinder petrol engine in this 118i is shared with the Mini and other small BMWs. It’s powerful enough, smooth and economical.
In our car it’s connected to the £1,350 dual-clutch automatic transmission. It’s a smooth and effective gearbox and I can’t see a reason not to order it if you ­anticipate lots of town driving.
I’m going to ask a non-petrolhead friend who’s owned a 1-Series for quite a few years if she knows whether her car is front or rear-wheel drive.
I’ll bet she doesn’t.
On that car it was only really obvious on the very high-powered models.
And you can’t tell that this new small BMW is front-wheel drive.
The engineers have done an excellent job of removing any vices such as torque steer and the 1-Series corners accurately.
In other words, the enthusiasts will be happy.

        BMW 118i M Sport five-door hatchback
      
Price: £26,715
Engine: 1.5-litre three-cylinder, 140bhp
0-62mph: 8.5sec
Fuel consumption: 45.6-47.1mpg
Co2: 150g/km

        Volkswagen Golf R-Line
      
About to be replaced by a new model.
Top quality, easy to live with.

        Audi A3 S Line 35
      
Great quality but the BMW is better to drive.

        Ford Focus ST Line X
      
More power, very good to drive.
Expect a decent discount.
