
# ‘Borderlands 3’ Should Reconsider Not Making Any New Vault Hunters For DLC

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/02/borderlands-3-should-reconsider-not-making-any-new-vault-hunters-for-dlc/)

The more I play Borderlands 3, the more I do believe that it has the kind of staying power that the first two games had, or that something like Destiny has now. I fully believe that like Borderlands 2, people will still be playing this, 4, 5, 7 years from now.With that said, I do hope Gearbox reconsiders a position they’ve taken, that they will not be making new vault hunters in upcoming DLC. This news came from director Paul Sage, as he explains that once people choose their vault hunter, they’re not that likely to pick up the new ones. And yet a lot of Borderlands superfans no doubt treasure their time with Krieg or Gaige and think BL2 was better off with their arrival.
I think I know what Borderlands 3 is trying to do here, and that’s channel Destiny in a way. Destiny has not added a fully new Guardian class past Hunter, Titan and Warlock since launch. What they have done, however, is introduce new skill trees, new “subclasses,” and I imagine that Borderlands is going to do something similar here.
The idea would be that in addition to the green, blue and orange trees we have now, they’d add say, a fourth tree in DLC with a new slate of skills for that Vault Hunter. That way, you’re not just getting more points to play around with, but you’re also getting a fully new tree to spec into with your already leveled hero if you want.
I can see the benefit of that. One problem with new vault hunters was being forced to do the whole story/1-50 leveling process all over again. A new skill tree could be accessible to all players from moment one.
But playing Borderlands 3 right now, it feels like Gearbox can barely manage three trees at once, much less four. Pretty much one of the trees feels pretty useless on each of the four vault hunters currently, with one of the three probably being the “correct” one for most players looking for the strongest builds. So far, Gearbox hasn’t really shown they can balance these out all that well, so I’m concerned simply adding even more complexity with another tree just wouldn’t produce the best results.
Also, part of me wants to do a brand new vault hunter with a totally unique style and do the whole leveling process again. There’s something a truly new vault hunter brings to the table that a new FL4K pet or new Moze mech attachments in a new tree simply won’t.
I understand that perhaps the data shows that it isn’t worth it to introduce new vault hunters, yet I think the game loses something by scrapping that concept. We can talk about Destiny, sure, but Diablo, WoW, pretty much all class-based RPGs add new classes in time, and that’s something I think new skill trees can’t match. And yes, it’s time for a damn fourth Guardian class already (Eliksni, anyone?), so I don’t think Destiny is even a great comparison point in this regard.
We will see if Gearbox changes their mind, as they seem open to this sort of feedback. I don’t think we would get a new vault hunter in time for the first DLC this year, even if they reverse course, but this game has a long road ahead of it, so never say never.
