
# Exporters bemoan India‘s exit from R.C.E.P.

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:11:18+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/06/exporters-bemoan-indias-exit-from-r-c-e-p/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
INDIA’S decision to opt out of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) may not be much of an issue to the government, but exporters fear that this development might cost them the opportunity to increase shipments to the fast-growing South Asian market.
Sergio R. Ortiz-Luis Jr., president of the Philippine Exporters Confederation Inc., argued that India’s decision to bail out of the RCEP could be a double-edged sword for the Philippines. For one, bilateral trade between India and the Philippines is just starting to grow so exporters can manage in the short term.
However, with India gone in the RCEP—at least for now—Ortiz-Luis said exporters might miss out on the opportunity to expand their shipments to a market that has a population of close to 1.4 billion people and an economy growing well above 7 percent annually.
“India is a large potential market for exporters, but it has yet to end up as a big trading partner. As far as we are concerned, India is not that important for now, but this could change once it becomes a superpower in a few years,” Ortiz-Luis told the BusinessMirror.
Merchandise trade between the Philippines and India has been expanding at a respectable rate under President Duterte, whose self styled independent foreign policy includes securing market access for the country’s exports to nontraditional partners.
Based on records from the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA), bilateral trade with India went up 24.44 percent to $2.24 billion in 2017, from $1.8 billion in 2016. This further rose by 5.8 percent to an all- time high of $2.37 billion last year.
PSA data also showed exports improved over 79 percent in 2017 to $576.59 million, from $322.09 million in 2016, before peaking to $598.52 million last year.
Last year, the bulk of the country’s shipments to India are electronic products ($247.5 million), copper concentrates ($69.26 million), manufactured items ($61.47 million), gold ($46.75 million) and minerals ($31.51 million). With India’s withdrawal from the RCEP, Ortiz-Luis said it will now be difficult to increase the volume of exports to the South Asian country.
“Right now, India is a potential market for Philippine exporters, but we have yet to turn that into something concrete. We have exchanges of parts with Indian electronics and automotive firms. However, with this development in the RCEP, I don’t see that potential to grow exports to India materializing anytime soon,” the industry leader explained.
Trade Secretary Ramon M. Lopez said India can hop on the RCEP once it resolves its issues on market access and trading rules. However, its withdrawal will not stop the 15 remaining parties from crafting the trade deal and readying it for signing by next year.
“India may be out as of now, but their pending issues will be sorted out until next year. We still have an open door for them. What is clear is that the 15 [remaining parties] have concluded all the 20 chapters of the RCEP and are almost done on market access discussions,” Lopez said in a text message to the BusinessMirror.
The 15 RCEP economies account for roughly 29 percent of world economy, from an estimated 32 percent when India was still in the trade deal, according to Lopez. Last year RCEP parties, including India, comprised nearly half of the world population, close to one-third of the global economy, 29.1 percent of global trade and about one-third of global investment inflows.
The RCEP covers trade in goods, services trade, investments, intellectual property, movement of people, electronic commerce, dispute settlement, among others.
Without India, the trade deal is now in the hands of the member-states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea. Negotiators of the RCEP are rushing to conclude and implement the trade deal, as it is seen to cushion the impact on them of the trade conflict between the United States and China. In a joint statement on Monday, leaders of the RCEP negotiating parties said the trade deal is now undergoing legal scrubbing and should be ready for signing by next year.
