
# San Francisco Mayor

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:32:07+00:00**

Author: **Associated Press**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/latest-san-francisco-mayor-appears-055823365.html)

1 / 5In this photo taken Friday, Nov. 1, 2019, San Francisco Mayor London Breed waits to address the annual Women In Construction Expo in San Francisco. San Francisco's mayor faces easy re-election in Tuesday's election but a hefty list of problems to solve, including a homelessness crisis, drug epidemic and a housing shortfall. The former president of the Board of Supervisors narrowly won a special June 2018 election to fill the seat left vacant by the sudden death of Mayor Ed Lee. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg)
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — The Latest on election races for San Francisco (all times local):
10:25 p.m.
San Francisco Mayor London Breed is claiming victory in Tuesday's election while voters were snubbing out a bid to overturn a city ban on e-cigarette sales.
Breed was ahead of five little-known challengers with some 60 percent of the votes when she declared victory about 90 minutes after the polls closed.
She told a cheering crowd: "Thank you for honoring me with four more years as mayor!"
Breed has been in office since winning a special election last year following the sudden death of Mayor Ed Lee.
Voters also roundly rejected Proposition C, which was put on the ballot by e-cigarette maker Juul Labs. San Francisco-based Juul dumped $12 million into the campaign before halting financial support two months ago.
___
9:50 p.m.
San Francisco Mayor London Breed appears to be coasting to victory while a proposition to overturn a city ban on e-cigarette sales seems destined for defeat in municipal elections.
Shortly after polls closed Tuesday, Breed was tens of thousands of votes ahead of her five challengers.
Her opponents are little-known and Breed had been expected to handily win her first four-year term.
She's been in office since winning a special election last year following the sudden death of Mayor Ed Lee.
Voters are roundly rejecting Proposition C, which was put on the ballot by e-cigarette maker Juul Labs. San Francisco-based Juul dumped $12 million into the campaign before halting financial support two months ago.
In early results, the measure is losing.
___
1:54 p.m.
Tuesday's ballot for San Francisco voters includes a race for mayor and a proposition to overturn a city ban on e-cigarette sales.
Mayor London Breed faces five little-known candidates and is bound to win her first four-year term.
She has been in office since winning a special June 2018 election following the sudden death of Mayor Ed Lee.
Voters are also taking up Proposition C, which was put on the ballot by e-cigarette maker Juul Labs. The measure would overturn a new city law to ban sales of e-cigarettes until they have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
Juul is based in San Francisco and dumped $12 million into the campaign before halting financial support for the proposal in September.
San Francisco has about 500,000 registered voters.
