
# Infosys CEO Salil Parekh responds to allegations

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:32:02+00:00**

Author: **TNN**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/infosys-ceo-parekh-responds-to-allegations/articleshow/71947597.cms)

BENGALURU: Infosys CEO Salil Parekh, who is the primary target of the whistleblower letter, responded to the accusations for the first time on Wednesday.
During an analyst call, he said: “As CEO, I have served with commitment and integrity to deliver a major business transformation in a large complex organisation over the past two years. Those who work with me know how I operate with inclusiveness and have no tolerance for divisiveness of any form. I’m grateful and heartened with the personal messages I’ve received from my employees. I have recused myself from the ongoing process and I respect that the audit committee has started an independent investigation.”
In response to a report that accused an unnamed Infosys co-founder and a former senior executive of conspiring with the whistleblowers, Infosys said it strongly condemns the mischievous insinuations made by anonymous sources against the co-founders and former colleagues.
Infosys chairman Nandan Nilekani said the speculation is appalling and seem to be aimed at tarnishing the image of some of the most accomplished and respected individuals.
“I have deep regard for the life-long contribution of all our co-founders. They have built this institution and have served this company selflessly and even today, remain committed to the long-term success of Infosys,” he said.
