
# BMW launches new MINI models, prices start from RM298,888

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:39:04+00:00**

Author: **Arjuna Chandran Shankar**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/bmw-launches-new-mini-models-prices-start-rm298888)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 7): BMW Group Malaysia has today launched three new MINI car models, which include two variants of the MINI Clubman.
The two new variants of the MINI Clubman comprise the updated MINI Clubman and the MINI John Cooper Works Clubman 306HP. BMW Group Malaysia also launched the MINI John Cooper Works Countryman 306HP.BMW Group Malaysia head of corporate communications Sashi Ambi said the new MINI Clubman is priced at RM298,888 each, while the MINI John Cooper Works Clubman 306HP costs RM358,888.
He said the MINI John Cooper Works Countryman 306HP is priced at RM378,888.
"The goal is always to deliver more vehicles, we also always want to perform better than previous years. This position is a great result for a small premium brand like MINI, but obviously we want to move upwards," Sashi told reporters here today at the launch of the new MINI models.
Sashi said these new MINI models are imported from MINI's production facility at UK's Oxford city. He said Malaysia is the first market in Southeast Asia to see the new MINI Clubman model.
Sashi said BMW Group Malaysia is aiming for single-digit growth in 2019 sales volume for all car models in its stable. He did not elaborate.
BMW Malaysia Sdn Bhd's website indicates BMW Group Malaysia is the representative of Bayerische Motoren Werke (BMW) AG in Malaysia, with activities that cover the wholesale of BMW, BMW i, MINI and BMW Motorrad vehicles, spare parts and accessories in the country.
"BMW dealership network covers 21 outlets in various cities in Malaysia," the website indicates.
