
# Jeff Goldblum defends Woody Allen: ‘I think there is a presumption of innocence until proven guilty’

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:08:57+00:00**

Author: **Ellie Harrison**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/films/news/jeff-goldblum-woody-allen-innocent-guilty-sex-abuse-metoo-a9188831.html)

Jeff Goldblum has said he thinks there is “a presumption of innocence until proven guilty” regarding Woody Allen and the sexual abuse allegations made against him.
Allen was accused of child molestation by his adopted daughter Dylan Farrow. He has always denied any abuse.
Since the allegations came to light, numerous Hollywood figures including Colin Firth and Greta Gerwig have pledged never to make a film with Allen again.
In a new interview with the i Paper, Goldblum has said he “would consider working with” the director in the future, having had a minor role in his 1977 film Annie Hall. 
“I think there is a presumption of innocence until proven guilty,” said Goldblum. “I know I enjoyed working with him many years ago and I sat in with his band once too.”
He added: "Even though I feel like this cultural shift [the #MeToo movement] is very, very positive and long overdue and I support it wholeheartedly and take it very seriously, I also admire his body of work. So I would consider working with him again, until I learned something more.” 
Goldblum can next be seen in the Marvel series What If…? alongside Hayley Atwell and Chadwick Boseman. 
His new jazz album I Shouldn’t Be Telling You This is out now on Decca Records.
