
# World Series MVP Stephen Strasburg opts to be free agent: reports

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:48:49+00:00**

Author: **Dom Calicchio**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/sports/world-series-mvp-stephen-strasburg-opts-to-be-free-agent-reports)

On the same day the Washington Nationals celebrated their World Series triumph with a victory parade in D.C., their fans learned that Series MVP pitcher Stephen Strasburg may be heading out of town.
According to reports, Strasburg – who went 5-0 in the MLB Postseason as the Nationals won the first world championship in franchise history – has opted out of the final four years of his contract, making him a free agent.

        
          THOUSANDS CELEBRATE WASHINGTON NATIONALS WORLD SERIES CHAMPIONSHIP AT PARADE, RALLY
        
      
The decision means 31-year-old Strasburg leaves $100 million on the table – with the prospect of earning more, either from the Nationals or another team.
Strasburg becomes the second member of the world champs to seek free agency: On Thursday, third baseman Anthony Rendon became a free agent, according to the Associated Press.
Sources told MLB.com’s Jamal Collier the Nationals remain optimistic about working out a new deal with Strasburg, who went 18-6 during the regular season, with a 3.32 earned-run average.

        CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
      
Strasburg, a native of San Diego, Calif., has been with the Nationals since 2010. He has posted 112 career regular-season wins against 58 defeats, with a career ERA of 3.17.
Houston Astros star pitcher Gerrit Cole, a contender for the American League’s Cy Young Award, also is headed for free agency.

        The Associated Press contributed to this story.
      
