
# ‘The Fiend’ Wins, But Has WWE Created A Character That Is Too Difficult To Book Effectively?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/10/31/the-fiend-wins-but-has-wwe-created-a-character-that-is-too-difficult-to-book-effectively/)

“The Fiend” Bray Wyatt is the new Universal Champion. He defeated Seth Rollins in a falls count anywhere bout at Crown Jewel on Thursday in Saudi Arabia. His coronation is what fans wanted to see at Hell in a Cell. However, how long before fans turn on his character?
His title-winning moment at Crown Jewel felt like vindication to some fans, but not to me. The victory just didn’t feel as fulfilling. It was the equivalent of a make-up call in an NBA game. The Fiend didn’t seemingly win the title because WWE creative designed his ascension. It felt more like the fans forced their hands with the outrage that followed HIAC. With All-Elite Wrestling making its mark every Wednesday night, WWE seems more willing to shift gears in a response to outcries.
The WWE is trying hard to make The Fiend special. I’m not sure when we last saw a character in the WWE Universe seem so invincible. Fans are behind the character because Bray Wyatt is perhaps the most naturally talented heel we’ve seen since Jake “The Snake” Roberts, and the design of the character was unique.
However, it appears he’s indestructible.
Is there a such thing as making a character too powerful? Rollins landed seven Stomps, a bevy of superkicks to the side of The Fiend’s head, with the last one knocking him into a heap of electronics that subsequently exploded.
The Fiend emerged from the wreckage, applied the Mandible Claw, and then hit Sister Abigail to obtain the pinfall.
With Rollins doing so much damage to The Fiend in this match and the last, the question that comes to mind is what is an acceptable way for him to lose? How would creative book a match where he is pinned or submitted without an uproar from the fans?
Obviously, he won’t be the champion forever, but who dethrones him?
If he does hold the title for a long time, there will come a point when the WWE Universe turns on him. What happens then?
There is so much about his packaging that may not have longevity. It’s been two matches, and I’ve seen enough of the signature red light. The Fiend is interesting. However, so much of what he does seems like a novelty act. It may be hard to see, but his character is destined to run into a roadblock created by limited ideas from the storytellers, and a fickle fan base that loves to hate things that have been loved for too long.
I love Wyatt and up to now, I’d considered him perhaps the most underutilized talent on the WWE’s roster. I want to see him featured, but I can’t help but wonder if WWE was a bit too heavy-handed with the construction of The Fiend.
