
# Netflix to Stop Supporting Older Samsung Smart TVs from Next Month

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:14:29+00:00**

Author: **George Kamau**

Original: [Techweez](https://techweez.com/2019/11/06/netflix-drop-support-older-samsung-smart-tvs/)

Are you using a relatively older Samsung smart TV to Netflix and chill? You better start saving up to buy a newer model or a device that still supports Netflix because Netflix is dropping support. You might have already started seeing error messages the streaming giant has been sending out to affected customers.
Samsung made this announcement on its official support webpage. Netflix will now drop support for some older Samsung smart TVs starting December 1st.
Affected Netflix customers have been getting an error message that says ‘Netflix will no longer be available on this device after December 1, 2019.‘
“Due to technical limitations, Netflix will no longer be supported on some devices beginning on 1 December 2019. Some older Samsung smart TVs are affected by this change,” reads the statement.
“We’ve notified all impacted members with more information about alternative devices we support so they can keep enjoying Netflix uninterrupted,”  said a Netflix representative to Cnet.
So far, we don’t know which old Samsung smart TVs are included. Netflix’s list of compatible smart TVs doesn’t help either.
Samsung says that “as long as you have one of the supported devices, like a game console, streaming media player, or set-top box, you’ll still be able to watch Netflix on your TV.”
This issue isn’t isolated to Samsung, people using Roku devices have also been getting the same error message since last month that come December 1st, their devices will no longer have access to Netflix.
Netflix may be pushing changes that older hardware won’t handle and will ruin how users interact with the platform.
When Samsung and Netflix release an official list of detailed compatible devices in the near future This doesn’t mean you have to ditch your old Samsung smart TV, you’ll just have to get yourself a device that still supports Netflix like Xiaomi Mi Box 3, Apple TV or a PlayStation 4.
