
# Hamilton better than Schumacher? Eddie Jordan says so!

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:27:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Newton**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49594/eddie-jordan-claims-hamilton-is-better-than-schumacher-.html)


        Former Jordan F1 team boss Eddie Jordan says that Lewis Hamilton has surpassed Michael Schumacher following the victory of his sixth title last weekend in the United States. Hamilton has dominated in recent times, winning five of the last six titles to put him just one title short of the great German's record.
      
Jordan claims that Schumacher had more help from his team and teammates than Hamilton has had at Mercedes, which makes him greater in his opinion.
Speaking to talkSPORT, Jordan said: “Everyone has their own view on this, but I am of the view he’s already surpassed Michael.

        “Michael started with me so there is a love affair there, but there is a situation some people may not fully grasp.
      

        “At the time I handled people like [Rubens] Barrichello, [Eddie] Irvine, [Giancarlo] Fisichella and [Jean] Alesi, and every time we went to sign a contract with Michael Schumacher or Ferrari it always had conditions in it, where what we saw in Austin wouldn’t have been allowed to happen.
      

        “Lewis, if he had in his contract the same things, he would have had to been able to pass [Valtteri] Bottas [to win the race].
      

        “You can’t have that in a competitive sport, where one part of the team dictates to the other. For me, that is a flaw factor for Michael.
      

        “Seven World Championships… how many would he have won if he hadn’t had the influence and support of the other people in the team?"
      
