
# Corey Anderson Scores Massive 1st-Round KO Upset Victory (VIDEO) Over Highly-Touted Johnny Walker

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/02/corey-anderson-scores-massive-1st-round-ko-upset-victory-video-over-highly-touted-johnny-walker/)

So much for the Johnny Walker hype train. Corey Anderson sent the entire thing off the track with a spectacular first-round TKO win over the fast-rising Brazilian.Here is a look at the finish:
The MMA community erupted after the finish.
Anderson came in as the +121 underdog despite having far more UFC experience and a higher ranking than Walker. Oddsmakers enlisted Walker as the favorite on the strength of his length, hulking size and track record of impressive KOs in the UFC.
Anderson was clearly motivated by what he perceived as a lack of respect.
The win pushed Anderson’s record to 13-4 and dropped Walker to 17-4. In his post-fight interview, Anderson pointed out that Walker had been stopped twice in his career with overhand rights.
As you can see from the highlight, that’s the punch that initially hurt Walker. Anderson had been calling out Jon Jones for a shot at the UFC Light Heavyweight title, but had been seemingly dismissed.
That might not be as simple after Saturday’s performance. If you look at the six guys ahead of him, Daniel Cormier, Thiago Santos, Anthony Smith, Dominick Reyes, Jan Blachowicz, and Alexander Gustafsson, all but two of the guys (Reyes and Blachowicz) have had their shot at Jones.
Reyes is ranked higher and may have an inside track, but Anderson beat Blachowicz back in 2015. Perhaps Anderson isn’t going to get the next shot at Jones, but he can’t be more than one win away from a chance to wear the gold.
Walker is still just 29 years old. The loss isn’t a death wish. His early aura has been dimmed for now, but he can come back. He needs to shore up his striking defense, humble himself a bit, and return to the Octagon. He still may have an opportunity to make some noise in the light heavyweight division.
