
# Corduroy Is All You Need To Wear This Winter & These 13 Pieces Prove It

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:00:25+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/corduroy-is-all-you-need-to-wear-this-winter-these-13-pieces-prove-it-19288255)

You may have noticed that corduroy is back in fashion. Not just back, I might add. It's practically taken over my personal wardrobe as well as the wardrobes of plenty of others.
Although fashion works in cyclical ways, this is the first time that cord has seen such a resurgence since its '70s-era popularity. You've only got to picture a person wearing corduroy to figure what happened in the decades between. A fusty stereotype led to older generations, and only older generations, favouring the "poor man's velvet", as it was once referred to.
Funny, then, that cord has now become rather luxurious. Now, you've got pink, purple, and red hues designed to draw attention. There's mini dresses and fitted jackets along with all manner of trouser styles. Retro styles haven't been forgotten. No, there's boilersuits and mini skirts aplenty to pay homage to trends of yore.
With the ability to be styled down for casual environments and up for special occasions, corduroy is a truly versatile fabric. And, thanks to the high street, you don't have to spend a fortune to get a look in. Without further ado, here's all the cord pieces you need to know about this winter.

        Corduroy Button Up Mini Dress£65|& Other StoriesThe mini dress silhouette that you loved all summer can work for winter thanks to a corduroy composition. Available in UK size 6 to 18.Buy now
      

        Cord Crop Wide Leg Trousers£35£25|Simply BeThe soft fabric of these cropped trousers makes them ideal for long days at work. Available in UK size 10 to 26.Buy now
      

        Navy Corduroy Padded Puffer Jacket£59|TopshopCosy up in this padded design. If navy's not your colour, there's a pale pink option too. Available in UK size 4 to 16.Buy now
      

        Plus Chunky Cord Pocket Front Mini Skirt£18£14.40|BoohooCord doesn't have to come in neutral hues. Brighten up the dreary months with this vibrant mini skirt. Available in UK size 16 to 24.Buy now
      

        Bold Shoulder Cord Shirt£55|ASOSThe gathered waist of this pink piece turns a plain shirt into a true style statement. Available in UK size 4 to 18.Buy now
      

        Cord Dungaree Dress£32.99|CurvissaRelive your school days with this smart (yet totally comfy) pinafore dress. Available in UK size 12 to 30.Buy now
      

        Cropped Wide Corduroy Trousers£65£39|& Other StoriesThese berry red trousers were made for pairing with a cosy knit and ankle boots. Available in UK size 6 to 18.Buy now
      

        Plus Size Blue Teddy Collar Cord Jacket£40|MissguidedExactly like a denim jacket, but made out of cord, and with an additional fluffy collar. Available in UK size 20 to 26.Buy now
      

        Ginger Stretch Cord Boilersuit£50|Simply BeBoilersuits have also been given the corduroy treatment. This one even comes with practical pockets. Available in UK size 12 to 26.Buy now
      

        Corduroy Oversized Overshirt£29.99|ZaraWear this as a jacket or as a simple shirt. Its neutral hue means it'll go with anything in your wardrobe. Available in UK size 6 to 18.Buy now
      

        Curve Cord Wrap Smock Mini Dress£32|ASOSThis marigold-hued dress will leave you dreaming of spring. Available in UK size 18 to 28.Buy now
      

        Cotton Corduroy Trousers£24.99£15|H&MAre white trousers dangerous to wear in the wet and wild months? Wear these and you'll certainly find out. Available in UK size 4 to 22.Buy now
      

        Brown Belted Cord Mini Skirt£35|River IslandThis '60s-esque skirt relies on good old-fashioned cord. Even your grandparents would approve. Available in UK size 6 to 18.Buy now
      
