
# What’s happening: week of Nov. 7

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:18:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [North Delta Reporter](https://www.northdeltareporter.com/entertainment/whats-happening-week-of-nov-7/)

• Pre-Retirement Workshop: Nov. 7, 2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m.; George Mackie Library, 4683 51st St.; Are you close to retirement or debating about it? Come to George Mackie Library’s free pre-retirement workshop on Canada Pension Plan and old age security benefits. A Service Canada representative will help you to build a better understanding of planning for retirement and explain how you can ensure that you are receiving all the benefits available to you. Even if you are already receiving pensions, this session will be beneficial. There are more than ten different CPP and OAS provisions and benefits of which you may not be aware.
• Flu Shot Clinic: Nov. 7, 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.; North Delta Evangelical Free Church, 11300 84th Ave.; Canada’s National Advisory Committee on Immunization recommends that everyone six months of age and older should get a yearly influenza vaccination, with rare exception. Vaccination is especially important for people who are at high risk of serious illness from influenza (such as young children, pregnant women, the elderly, and people with certain medical conditions) and those able to transmit or spread influenza to those at high risk. In B.C., the influenza vaccine is provided free to these people.
• From Gremlin to Gorgeous — Grooming Tips for Your Pet: Nov. 7, 6:30 p.m.; Delta Community Animal Shelter, 7505 Hopcott Rd.; Hosted by DCAS, this is a free class but space is limited so register early. Minimum registration of five people per class. To register, call 604-940-7111.
• Free Swap Meet For Kids Clothes, Gear and Toys: Nov. 9, 9:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; New Hope Christian Church – 11838 88th Ave.; Bring your good condition unneeded items to donate and/or take what you need. Everyone is welcome, from newborn to teens and anything in between. Admission is $2 by donation to the church in exchange for using their space, but all items are to be swapped for free. There will also be a drop box for the Christmas Pajama Drive, collecting new pajamas for kids 0-16 to be donated to Deltassist.
• Student Mindfulness Seminar: Nov. 9, 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.; Delta Manor Education Centre, 4750 57th St.; The South Delta Secondary School and Delta Secondary School parent advisory committees are co-hosting a mindfulness education event for Delta teens who may be struggling with symptoms of stress, anxiety and depression. The free-with-registration event is open to Delta teens and their parents/guardians, and features the leading expert in mindfulness practice for teens Dr. Dzung Vo, founding director for the BC Children’s Hospital Centre for Mindfulness. Vo co-developed a program for young people called Mindful Awareness and Resilience Skills for Adolescents. The program helps teens build self-initiated skills for coping with stress, pain and the mental wellness challenges of anxiety and depression. Vo will be talking about the foundations of mindfulness practice and offering a hands-on demonstration.
• Remembrance Day Ceremony: Nov. 11, 10:40 a.m.; North Delta Social Heart Plaza, 11415 84th Ave.; On Monday, November 11, 2019, please join us at The City of Delta’s official Remembrance Day Ceremony in North Delta. Ceremony gets underway at 10:40 a.m. with a reception to follow at the North Delta Recreation Centre. Hosted by Kennedy House Seniors Society. The city is also holding a ceremony at Memorial Park in Ladner (47th Avenue and Garry Street). Parade begins at 10:15 a.m. and runs from the Legion at 4896 Delta St. to the cenotaph at Memorial Park for the 10:45 a.m. ceremony. Hosted by the Royal Canadian Legion Delta Branch 61.
• An Evening with Ann Pelo — Education for Citizenship: Nov. 13, 7 p.m.; North Delta Secondary, 11447 82th Ave.; Ann Pelo is a teacher-educator who consults early childhood educators on inquiry-based teaching and learning, pedagogical leadership, and the necessary place of ecological identity in children’s lives. She is the author of several books including The Language of Art and From Teaching to Thinking. Please pre-register online at childcareoptions.ca/events/education-for-citizenship-the-participation-rights-of-children.
• Get Up and Go! Free Try it Session: Nov. 14, 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.; Kennedy Seniors’ Recreation Centre; The Kennedy will be hosting a free Get up & Go! session to promote registered programs for January. Get Up & Go! provides an entry level exercise program for seniors with balance and mobility impairment who would otherwise be unable to attend a community based exercise class. Come see if this is the right exercise program for you at no cost. To register or for more information, please call 604-594-2717.
• Addiction and Harm Reduction Parent Information Night with Guy Felicella: Nov. 14, 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.; Seaquam Secondary School theatre, 11584 Lyon Rd.; Guy Felicella grew up in a middle class home in Richmond but fell into addiction at a young age. Guy spent 30 years in the repeated cycle of gangs, addiction, treatment and jail. He spent nearly 20 years residing in a two block radius in the Downtown Eastside and using many resources, including harm reduction, to keep himself alive. Today, Guy has escaped the grips of the turmoil that kept him suffering and resides with his wife and two young children, with multiple years of recovery and sobriety under his belt. Guy is passionate about advocating for the vulnerable people who still suffer in addiction and educating communities on harm reduction to eliminate the stigma that exists around it. Currently, Guy works for Vancouver Coastal Health, B.C.’s Ministry of Mental Health and Addiction, and the BC Centre on Substance Use. Parents and youth are welcome.
• Snow Angels Information Session: Nov. 14, 6:30 p.m. to 8 p.m.; North Delta Recreation Centre; Join us for an information session that will assist you in becoming a Delta Snow Angel. You will fill out a registration form, receive police information check forms and discover how you can complete all the steps to become a part of our team. If you are 13-17 years old, please attend with someone over the age of 19 that will be supervising you during your volunteer shifts. Group leaders will need to attend in order to receive the forms to take back to your team/group. You will receive a 1.5 hour volunteer credit for attending one of these sessions. It is not mandatory that you stay the full 1.5 hours, you will only need to stay until your registration process is complete and we answer any questions you may have.
• Anticipating Special Occasions & Holidays While Grieving: Nov. 14, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.; Centre for Supportive Care, 4631 Clarence Taylor Cres., Ladner; The Delta Hospice Society is hosting a free presentation on navigating holidays and other special occasions while grieving a loved one. For more information and to pre-registration, call 604-948-0660 or email debra@deltahospice.org.
• Bernie & Red: Nov. 15, 7 p.m.; Kennedy Seniors’ Recreation Centre; Bernie & Red are musical humorists who have delighted audiences worldwide for more than 35 years. Frequent comparisons to The Smothers Brothers, Bette Midler, Johnny Carson and Benny Hill notwithstanding, these two are originals, blending their English humour (they’re originally from Liverpool, where they met and married over 50 years ago) with observations about Canada, family life, the joys of senior travel and marriage, in a package that is accessible to all. Veterans of the Western Canadian entertainment scene, they have built a large and faithful following, and have released more than a dozen CDs and an autobiography/songbook, “Our Story,” which contains the lyrics to 20 of their original comedy songs. Their music covers every era, but mostly those classics that you remember from the 50s and 60s, and their comedy is aimed fairly and squarely at the over-55 age group. This show is not to be missed. The evening will include a dinner at 7 p.m., followed by the show at 8:15 p.m. For more information, call 604-599-6744. For more on Bernie & Red, head to bernieandred.com.
• Vaping, Substance Use and the Importance of Connection: Nov. 19, 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.; Delta Manor Education Centre, 4750 57th St., Ladner; Parents and youth, please join us for an informative evening of learning presented by Fraser Health and the Delta Police Department about vaping, substance use and the importance of connection. This evening presentation is facilitated by the Delta School District, in partnership with Fraser Health and the Delta Police Department. Door prizes and refreshments will be available for participants.
• Childcare Community Engagement Meeting: Nov. 20, 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.; Harris Barn, 4140 Arthur Dr., Ladner; The City of Delta will be holding community engagement meetings in North and South Delta to provide residents with the opportunity to share their thoughts, ideas, and solutions for how to improve the quality, accessibility, and affordability of childcare in Delta. Residents will also receive an update on the current status of the Delta Childcare Needs Assessment. We look forward to seeing you there.
• Osteofit Free Try-it Session: Nov. 21, 9:15 a.m. to 10:15 a.m. and 6 p.m. to 7 p.m.; Kennedy Seniors’ Recreation Centre; The Kennedy will be hosting free Osteofit try-it sessions to promote a course that will be offered in January. Osteofit is a certified exercise, education and falls prevention program for individuals with osteoporosis, low bone density or who are at risk of fractures and falls. Osteofit aims to provide safe and gentle exercises for individuals with minimal previous exercise experience. Find out if this is the program for you at no cost. To register, please contact 604-594-2717.
• ICBC Safe Driving for Seniors: Nov. 21, 9:30 a.m. to 12 p.m.; Kennedy Seniors’ Recreation Centre; Kennedy Seniors Society welcomes ICBC to present essential information to help keep seniors safe on the road. Also, learn about the government’s new Enhanced Road Assessment (ERA) program that evaluates one’s ability to safely operate a motor vehicle. This is a free event. Please call the Kennedy Seniors’ Recreation Centre at 604-594-2717 for more information or to register.
• Fluterrific: Nov. 24, 2 p.m.; North Delta Centre for the Arts, 11425 84th Ave.; This is the sixth year for this afternoon of flute music co-sponsored by the City of Delta. Enjoy a concert with a local flute ensemble performing baroque, classical, Broadway and Latin music. Doors open at 1:30 p.m. Tickets are $10, free for children 10 years and under. To register, call 604-952-3000. Note: if the North Delta Centre for the Arts is not ready in time, the show will instead be held next door at the North Delta Recreation Centre.
• Books and Games at the Library: Nov. 25, 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.; George Mackie Library; Game on in the library. Play board games while library staff creates a personalized book list based on your favourite titles or subjects. Everyone welcome.
• Childcare Community Engagement Meeting: Nov. 27, 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.; George Mackie Library; The City of Delta will be holding community engagement meetings in North and South Delta to provide residents with the opportunity to share their thoughts, ideas, and solutions for how to improve the quality, accessibility, and affordability of childcare in Delta. Residents will also receive an update on the current status of the Delta Childcare Needs Assessment. We look forward to seeing you there.
• Personal Emergency Preparedness Workshop: Nov. 28, 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.; North Delta Recreation Centre; This free personal preparedness workshop will teach you the risks, how to make an emergency plan, and what to do in an emergency or disaster. Register at deltareg.ca (barcode: 437192) or by calling 604-952-3000.
• Osteofit Free Try-it Session: Nov. 30, 9:15 a.m. to 10:15 a.m.; Kennedy Seniors’ Recreation Centre; The Kennedy will be hosting a free Osteofit try-it session to promote a course that will be offered in January. Osteofit is a certified exercise, education and falls prevention program for individuals with osteoporosis, low bone density or who are at risk of fractures and falls. Osteofit aims to provide safe and gentle exercises for individuals with minimal previous exercise experience. Find out if this is the program for you at no cost. To register, please contact 604-594-2717.
• Get Up and Go! Free Try it Session: Nov. 30, 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.; Kennedy Seniors’ Recreation Centre; The Kennedy will be hosting a free Get up & Go! session to promote registered programs for January. Get Up & Go! provides an entry level exercise program for seniors with balance and mobility impairment who would otherwise be unable to attend a community based exercise class. Come see if this is the right exercise program for you at no cost. To register or for more information, please call 604-594-2717.
• Canskate Bring a Friend Day: Dec. 1, 9:15 a.m. to 10:45 a.m.; Sungod Recreation Centre; Join us for Bring a Friend Day of Canskate! All skaters aged 3-12 are welcome to join us. The rental shop will be open for complementary skates and helmets and our coaching team will be on-ice leading lessons and games. We hope to see your skater and their friends for this fun session.
• Canskate Bring a Friend Day: Dec. 3, 5:15 p.m. to 6:45 p.m.; Sungod Recreation Centre; Join us for Bring a Friend Day of Canskate! All skaters aged 3-12 are welcome to join us. The rental shop will be open for complementary skates and helmets and our coaching team will be on-ice leading lessons and games. We hope to see your skater and their friends for this fun session.
• Vaping, Substance Use and the Importance of Connection: Dec. 3, 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.; Seaquam Secondary School, 11584 Lyon Rd.; Parents and youth, please join us for an informative evening of learning presented by Fraser Health and the Delta Police Department about vaping, substance use and the importance of connection. This evening presentation is facilitated by the Delta School District, in partnership with Fraser Health and the Delta Police Department. Door prizes and refreshments will be available for participants.
• Holiday Hazards — Cat-Proof Your Home: Dec. 5, 6:30 p.m.; Delta Community Animal Shelter, 7505 Hopcott Rd.; This class is free. Class space is limited so register early. Minimum registration of five people per class. To register, call 604-940-7111. Hosted by DCAS.
• Acrylic Art with Dawn: Dec. 7, 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.; Kennedy Seniors’ Recreation Centre; Come spend an afternoon with Dawn and let your creativity and inner artist shine. No experience is necessary in this fun and relaxing atmosphere. Dawn will take you through the steps to build your masterpiece from the blank canvas to a beautiful finished product you will be proud to display. Class costs $15 and all supplies are provided. All that is required is an open mind and a creative heart. To register, please contact 604-594-2717.
• Christmas Concert: Dec. 17, 7 p.m.; North Delta Arts Centre, 11425 84th Ave.; Come enjoy a free holiday concert featuring the Delta Concert Band and a local choir. Entry by donation to the food bank. This is an all ages event.
• Maker Monday: Mondays through Dec. 2, 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m.; George Mackie Library; Start the week creatively. If you’re between the ages of 8 and 12, drop in for Maker Monday and engineer something with KEVA Planks. Something new will be designed and made each week; you could be constructing cardboard structures on Sept. 23 or creating Robot Art on Sept. 30. Some of the other amazing things we’ll be doing are designing electronic inventions with Makey Makey and building with Magformers.
• Take Off Pounds Sensibly: Tuesdays, 9:30 a.m. to 11 a.m.; Deltassist, 9097 120th St.; A non-profit organization. We have a friendly group to help you lose weight. For more info call Eileen Labron at 604-596-0233.
• Kennedy Seniors’ Choir: Tuesdays, 10:15 a.m. to 11:15 a.m.; Kennedy Seniors’ Recreation Centre; Janette Sobkowicz, choirmaster with a bachelor’s of music degree and 20 years of experience teaching music and conducting choirs, starts the newest program at Kennedy Seniors Recreation Centre. Join Janette and seniors from the centre in singing and socializing. For more information please call 604-594-2717 or visit the centre’s customer service desk. Please note: this drop-in activity requires a punch pass.
• Storytime: Tuesdays, Fridays and Sundays through Dec. 6, 10:30 a.m. to 11 a.m. (Tuesdays and Fridays) and 12:30 p.m. to 1 p.m. (Sundays); George Mackie Library; Introduce kids to the love of books and language with Storytime. Children and caregivers will enjoy interactive stories, songs, rhymes and more. Storytime prepares children to learn to read. Suitable for ages 2 to 6 years.
• Relaxation Circle: Tuesdays, 10:30 a.m. to 11:45 a.m.; Centre for Supportive Care, 4631 Clarence Taylor Cres., Ladner; Are you an adult living with cancer or serious illness and would like to relax body and mind? Then join the Centre for Supportive Care’s free Relaxation Circle where you will learn and practice relaxation techniques and experience soothing touch by volunteers, guided imagery and live music by our music therapist. Open to family members and friends too. No need to register, just show up! For more info, call 604-948-0660.
• Suicide Grief Support Group: Tuesdays through to Dec. 3, 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.; Centre for Supportive Care, 4631 Clarence Taylor Cres., Ladner; Recent loss due to suicide and want the support of others in similar circumstances? Join a free adult suicide grief support group where you can share your feelings and thoughts in a safe and supportive environment, learn about coping strategies and resources, and develop community with others. For more info and to pre-register, call 604-948-0660.
• Settlement Workers – Punjabi/English: Alternate Tuesdays, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; George Mackie Library; Are you a newcomer to Canada who needs help adjusting to your new life? Free and confidential services are offered to help newcomers with all their needs during the process of settling into their new community. Settlement and integration services are free for immigrants, refugees and their families in B.C.
• Lego Club: Tuesdays through Nov. 26, 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.; George Mackie Library; Love Lego? We provide the Lego, you bring your imagination. Come play, create, and experiment. Lego Club is a fun afternoon program for kids. Children under 5 must be accompanied by an adult.
• Recovery International Weekly Meetings: Tuesdays, 7 p.m.; North Delta Evangelical Free Church, 11300 84th Ave.; Recovery International is a weekly community-based self-help mental health group that offers tools and techniques that participants can use to deal with depression, anxiety, impulse control, anger management and a variety of other nervous and mental health issues. Meetings are led by trained group leaders.
• Bridge at East Delta Hall: Wednesdays, 12:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. and Thursdays, 9:45 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.; East Delta Hall, 10379 Ladner Trunk Rd.; The Duplicate Lite Bridge Clubs is conducting their games in Delta. Cost is $8 per session, including refreshments. First time players are invited to come give bridge a try. Register by emailing ljsimpson@telus.net or calling Lynda Simpson at 604-788-4721. For more info about the bridge clubs, visit duplicatelite.ca.
• Bereavement Support Group: Wednesdays through to Nov. 13, 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.; Have you recently experienced the death of a loved one? Then consider joining a safe and supportive free group for bereaved adults to share with and listen to others in similar situations, and learn to navigate their grief process. For more info and to pre-register, call 604-948-0660.
• Settlement Workers — Arabic/Mandarin/English: Alternate Wednesdays, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; George Mackie Library; Are you a newcomer to Canada who needs help adjusting to your new life? Free and confidential services are offered to help newcomers with all their needs during the process of settling into their new community. Settlement and integration services are free for immigrants, refugees and their families in B.C.
• Supporting Family Resilience Group: Wednesdays, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.; Delta office – Canadian Mental Health Association Vancouver-Fraser, 4871 Delta St.; The Canadian Mental Health Association Vancouver-Fraser offers a no-cost support group for parents and caregivers of youth and young adults who are working through mental health and/or substance use concerns. Facilitated by both peers and counsellors, the group meets weekly at our Delta office. Please register prior to your first meeting by phone: 604-943-1878, or email: info.delta@cmha.bc.ca.
• Restorative Yoga For People Living with Cancer: Thursdays, through to Nov. 28, 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.; Centre for Supportive Care, 4631 Clarence Taylor Cresc., Ladner; Join a free yoga group where body, breath and mind come together in fully supported reclining yoga positions. Yoga experience is not necessary. For more info and to pre-register, call 604-948-0660.
• Babytime: Thursdays until Dec. 5, 10:30 a.m. to 11 a.m.; George Mackie Library; Make language fun, and start early with Babytime. Help your baby develop speech and language skills. Enjoy bouncing, singing, rhyming and stories. Babytime is a fun, social bonding activity for babies and caregivers. Suitable for babies 23 months and younger.
• Parent Time: Thursdays through Dec. 5, 11 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.; George Mackie Library; Relax and mingle after the fun social bonding activity of Babytime. Parent Time provides parents and caregivers an opportunity to meet other parents, learn new parenting skills, share information and resources. Suitable for parents of babies 23 months and younger. Schedule: Nov. 7 — car seat safety with BCAA; Nov. 14 — breastfeeding clinic; Nov. 21 — public health nurse; Nov. 28 — speech and language with Fraser Health; Dec. 5 — breastfeeding clinic.
• Restorative Yoga For People Living with Cancer: Thursdays through Nov. 28, 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.; Centre for Supportive Care, 4631 Clarence Taylor Cresc., Ladner; Join a free yoga group where body, breath and mind come together in fully supported reclining yoga positions. Yoga experience is not necessary. For more info and to pre-register, call 604-948-0660.
• Mental Health Resiliency Support Group: Second and fourth Thursday of each month, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.; South Delta; Canadian Mental Health Association Vancouver-Fraser offers a mental health resiliency support group in South Delta for individuals living with a mental health concern or experiencing symptoms. Please call the Delta office at 604-943-1878 or email info.delta@cmha.bc.ca to register for your first meeting.
• Knit & Stitch: Fridays, 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.; George Mackie Library; Pack up your needles and yarn, crocheting or any other projects and head to the library. Join members of all ages and abilities to share ideas, techniques and good conversation.
• Teen Advisory Group: First Thursday of each month, 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.; George Mackie Library; TAG is a group of committed teens (ages 13-19) who volunteer their time and energy to help staff develop teen-oriented programs, assist at library events and act as library representatives in North Delta’s teen community. Membership is a resume booster and helps earn volunteer hours. There is time to socialize and plan. Did we mention that there is free food? If interested, apply at the library.
• Evening Book Club: Second Tuesday of the month, 7:15 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.; George Mackie Library; Join us to discuss books in a casual setting. New members are welcome. Books are provided.
• Poetry Night in Punjabi: Third Tuesday of the month, 6:30 p.m. to 8 p.m.; George Mackie Library; Come hear two published poets/authors read and discuss their work and answer questions from the audience. Held in collaboration with Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha, Uttari Amrika and Punjabi Lekhak Manch – Vancouver.
• Cubetto Storytime: Third Saturday of the month, 10:30 a.m. to 11 a.m.; George Mackie Library; The little ones can get into the action with Cubetto Storytim. Cubetto is a friendly wooden robot that offers a fun first step into the world of programming while encouraging imagination. Kids aged 3-5 can use Cubetto to learn the basics of coding, logic and pattern recognition. There are no screens to stare at and no reading to do. Join Cubetto for a fun, hands-on storytime every third Saturday of the month until November.
• Teen Night — Pizza & Games: Fourth Tuesday of the month, 5 p.m. to 7 p.m.; George Mackie Library; Do you love to play board games? Are you between 12 and 19 years old? Then come to the library for a fun night of gaming and free pizza provided by Imperial Hobbies.
• Afternoon Book Club: Fourth Thursday of the month, 1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m.; George Mackie Library; Join us to discuss books in a casual setting. New members welcome and books provided.
• Crossroads United Church Monthly Community Dinner: Fourth Saturday of every month, doors open at 4:30 p.m., dinner starts at 5 p.m.; Crossroads United Church, 7655 120th St.; Crossroads United Church invites you to their monthly community dinner. Come and enjoy this free nutritious meal served in a casual, safe environment. It is a sit-down served meal and is open to anyone who would benefit from good food in a safe, family-friendly setting. For more info go to crossroads-united-church.ca.
• Baby Bump Book Club: Last Monday of the month, 7:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.; George Mackie Library; Are you a mom-to-be? Have you heard about the new Baby Bump Book Club at the Mackie Library? Check it out on the last Monday of the month. This group is very organic; it can be whatever you need it to be.
• Preschool Science Storytime: Last Friday of the month through to Nov. 29, 10:30 a.m. to 11 a.m.; George Mackie Library; Join us the last Friday of every month for a special Preschool Science Storytime. A different subject will be featured every month and will include a story (fiction or non-fiction), a group re-telling of the science aspects of the story and a hands-on activity. Let’s build preschoolers to become not only good readers but inquisitive citizens too.
• Prostate Cancer Support Group Surrey: Last Saturday of every month, 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. (except July and Dec.); Valley View Memorial Gardens, 14644 72 Ave., Surrey; PCSG Surrey provides awareness, support and education for the prevention, treatment and cure for men diagnosed and treated for prostate cancer in Delta, Surrey, Langley and White Rock. Spouses and guests are welcome. For additional info visit procansupport.com or call 604 574-4012.
• Book A Librarian in Punjabi and Hindi: Available by appointment; George Mackie Library; Learn how to download books from the library, find what you need on the library website, research and learn using the library’s computer-based services, what books you might like based on your interests, basic internet and basic computer. Book your personalized 30-minute session by phone (604-594-8155) or in person.
• Delta Music Makers Concert Band: Did you have fun playing in a band in high school? If so, dust off your instrument, contact Curt Jantzen (cjband7@gmail.com), then join us in Ladner Tuesday evenings. The Delta Music Makers Concert Band is a fun group of adults who love to rehearse and play concerts in the community. Especially needed now are trumpets and clarinets, or any instrument except alto sax (that section is full).
• Delta Scottsdale Lions Club: Second and fourth Tuesday of each month; The Lions Club is a service club that welcomes both ladies and men. If you would like to be involved in helping in your community, join us on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month (not mandatory) at the Delta Golf Course. For more info call Al at 604-594-8783.
• Canadian Federation of University Women, North Delta/Surrey: CFUW is a national non-partisan, voluntary, self-funded organization working to improve the status of women and to promote human rights, public education, social justice and peace. Every year, CFUW and its clubs award close to $1 million to women to help them pursue post-secondary studies and also provide funding for library and creative arts awards. CFUW clubs provide learning and fellowship through lecture series, book clubs and issues groups, work to prevent violence against women and child poverty, and promote early learning and child care. North Delta/Surrey club meets monthly and is open to all women graduates, students and associates. Call Barb (604-594-6145) or Eleanor (604-589-3631), or email northdeltasurreycfuw@gmail.com for info.
• North Delta Newcomers and Friends: NDNF is a ladies social club. Please call and arrange to attend some of our morning walks, coffee times, stitch-and-chats, card games, par-3 golf, potlucks and monthly dinners. For more info please call Kathy (604-583-3691) or Diane (604-543-7345).
• Gamblers Anonymous: Has gambling taken over your life or the life of someone you know? Call 1-855-222-5542 to take back your life. Gamblers Anonymous is a non-profit fellowship of men and women who share their experience, strength and hope with each other that they may solve their common problem. Call 1-855-222-5542, email friend@gabc.ca or visit gabc.ca for more info.
