
# Ernest J Gaines, author of A Lesson Before Dying, dies aged 86

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:19:22+00:00**

Author: **Associated Press**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2019/nov/05/ernest-j-gaines-death-a-lesson-before-dying)


        The acclaimed, award-winning novelist was known for his stories of the African American experience in the south
      
The novelist Ernest J Gaines, whose poor childhood in a small Louisiana plantation town germinated the stories of black struggles that grew into universal stories of grace and beauty, has died. He was 86.
The Louisiana governor’s office on Tuesday released word of his death.
“It is with a heavy heart that we say goodbye to Ernest J Gaines, a native Louisianan who used his immense vision and literary talents to tell the stories of African Americans in the south,” a tweet from the office of John Bel Edwards read.
A Lesson Before Dying, his eighth novel, was published in 1993 to great acclaim. It was loosely based on the story of Willie Francis, a black man sentenced to death by the electric chair twice. It won the National Book Critics Circle Award for fiction and that year, Gaines was awarded a genius grant by the MacArthur Foundation, receiving $335,000 to spend over the next five years.
He was also awarded the National Medal in Arts in 2012
“Aside from the fact that he was so immensely talented, he was a good person,” his wife, Dianne Gaines, said on Tuesday.
A Lesson Before Dying was also adapted into an Emmy-winning TV movie starring Don Cheadle. Two of his other books, The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman and A Gathering of Old Men, also became films.
“A towering man with a gentle voice, Dr Gaines was an inspiration to generations and his death will be felt deeply by family, friends, and his university family,” read a statement from the Ernest J Gaines Center.
