
# How having a star-studded squad will hinder - not help - Saracens' bid to avoid relegation

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:11:42+00:00**

Author: **Chris Jones**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/how-having-a-star-studded-squad-will-hinder-not-help-saracens-bid-to-avoid-relegation)

Saracens’ bid to avoid relegation after a 35-point reduction and £5.3million fine for salary cap breaches will be severely affected by the star-studded squad the Heineken Cup and Premiership double champions have assembled – and the far-reaching implications of the sanctions will cascade into next season.
RugbyPass understands the club is already examining the implications of the independent panel’s ruling which Saracens will appeal against, identifying which players may have to be let go. Wales winger Liam Williams is one name in the discussion.
The club is also discussing the possible need for salary cuts to deal with the implications of Tuesday’s PRL ruling and any battle to avoid relegation is certain to be shaped by the number of international players who will be involved in the 2020 Six Nations championship.
Saracens, who would be 30 points behind 11th place Bath on -26 points is they were to be unsuccessful in their appeal, will be unable to call upon their significant England squad presence, which includes Owen Farrell, Maro Itoje and Billy and Mako Vunipola, for up to six rounds of Gallagher Premiership matches taking place either before or during the Six Nations.
Their England contingent also includes Elliot Daly, who arrived from Wasps in the summer, and it was his signing that many believe was the final straw for rival clubs.

        (Continue reading below…)
      

        Click here to see the video
      
This season’s elongated campaign caused by the impact of the World Cup in Japan looks certain to have a messy climax with any appeal by Saracens certain to take a considerable time to unfold. That could leave the question of who goes down hanging in the legal balance.
With so many of their England stars tied up with Six Nations matches and also affected by the agreed rest periods for internationals, Saracens’ battle to stay in the top flight will come down to their wider squad, many of them home-grown players who have come through the academy.
