
# VFACTS: October 2019 sales results

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:20:07+00:00**

Author: **Mike Costello**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805522/vfacts-october-2019-sales-results/)

- shares
Australia’s new car sales dipped in October for the 19th consecutive month, compared to the same month in the preceding year. Manufacturer-supplied VFACTS figures show sales were down 9.1 per cent for the month, to 82,456, with drops recorded in every State and Territory.
Year-to-date (YTD) cumulative sales are naturally well down, by 8.0 per cent to 893,920 units. That’s the lowest January-October tally since 2011. That means the market for new cars is now the smallest it has been for eight years.
It’s also the longest downturn since the Global Financial Crisis a decade ago – as consumer confidence wanes and tighter credit requirements mean more deals are falling over after customers have already signed on the dotted line.
And perhaps people are just deciding to hang onto cars longer, too.
While vehicle sales fell across all types, conventional passenger vehicles and light commercial utes and vans were hardest hit, down by 15 per cent and 11 per cent respectively.
SUV sales fell 3.0 per cent, and this vehicle type captured nearly 50 per cent overall market share (46.9 per cent to be precise).
Toyota sales fell below the market average (4.6 per cent) to 16,988 sales, giving it a commanding lead over all competitors and market share of 20.6 per cent. Three of the top-ten-selling models were also Toyotas.
Hyundai finished second on 7455 sales, actually up 0.3 per cent. Mazda in third dipped by 22.1 per cent to 6370 units. Kia finished fourth for the month (and sits sixth annually) thanks to a 10.5 per cent increase against the trend, to 5062 cars.
Ford was fifth with 4891 units (down 8.8 per cent), ahead of Mitsubishi (4811, down 22.6 per cent). Volkswagen finished seventh on 4220 (down 12.7 per cent), Nissan eighth (4011, down 5.4 per cent), Subaru ninth (3303, down 24.4 per cent) and Mercedes-Benz Cars and Vans tenth (3204, up 13.4 per cent).
Holden finished 11th on 3086 units, down 41.3 per cent. That’s the Lion Brand’s second-weakest tally in the VFACTS records, after posting a new low in September, edging out Honda (2761, down 10 per cent), Isuzu Ute (1947, down 7.3 per cent), BMW (1785, up 4.9 per cent) and Suzuki (1464, up 26.5 per cent).
Audi did not manage the kind of growth shown by rivals Mercedes-Benz and BMW, dipping 28.1 per cent to 1246 units. However, with an influx of new product hitting dealers, not least the new Q3, expect the worm to turn eventually for the Ingolstadt marque.
The next few slots in running order were filled by smaller-scale brands that bucked the trend and showed growth. They are Lexus (890, up 16.6 per cent), Renault (824, 9.9 per cent), MG (765, up 115 per cent from a low base), Volvo Car (up 0.6 per cent to 695), and Skoda (559, up 16.2 per cent).
Lower-volume brands that took October sales hits included Land Rover (553, down 12.8 per cent), LDV (501, down 12.4 per cent), Jeep (393, down 33.6 per cent), Porsche (257, down 2.7 per cent), Peugeot (245, down 8.9 per cent), Jaguar (150, down 36.4 per cent), and Alfa Romeo (83, down 11.7 per cent).
The running order had the Toyota HiLux on top (3516, down 20.1 per cent), ahead of the Ford Ranger (3160, down 10 per cent). Next was the Hyundai i30 (2216, up 8.2 per cent), which looks to be benefiting from its lower starting price than the new-generation Toyota Corolla and Mazda 3.
Fourth was the Toyota RAV4 (2132, up 34.8 per cent) despite buyers enduring a long waiting list on the Cruiser Hybrid variant, making it the nation's number-one SUV yet again. The Corolla was fifth (2117, down 20.5 per cent), ahead of the Kia Cerato (1827, up 36.5 per cent).
Rounding out the top ten were the Mazda CX-5 (1708, down 14.6 per cent), Hyundai Tucson (1693, up 10.7 per cent), Nissan X-Trail (1592, down 3.2 per cent) and Mitsubishi ASX (1517, down 12.8 per cent).
Half of the top ten were compact SUVs, alongside three small cars and two utes. There’s three Toyotas, two Hyundais, one one each from Ford, Kia, Mazda, Nissan, and Mitsubishi.
Sales were down irrespective of buyer type. Private sales were down 5.2 per cent (35,395), business fleet sales fell 8.2 per cent (34,822), rental sales fell 27.2 per cent (6083), and government purchases dipped 7.3 per cent (3065).
Sales of electric and plug-in hybrid (PHEV) cars were 273 units (up three-fold), excluding Tesla which doesn't disclose sales. Hybrid car sales were registered as 2749 units, nearly double October 2018's tally (1595). Nearly all of these were made by Toyota/Lexus. Sales of petrol-electric passenger cars (1845) smashed diesel-powered passenger cars (842).
Sales by country of origin: Japan (25,296), Thailand (19,495), Korea (12,550), Germany (6478), USA (3577), England (1937), China (1602), Czech Republic (1222), and Mexico (1142).
Sales by State and Territory: NSW (26,134, down 8.5 per cent), Victoria (24,535, down 8.8 per cent), Queensland (16,132, down 7.2 per cent), WA (7461, down 10.3 per cent), SA (4901, down 11.4 per cent), Tasmania (1600, down 14.7 per cent), ACT (1119, down 21.1 per cent), NT (574, down 19 per cent).
“Year to date sales of new motor vehicles in 2019 are almost 78,000 units (eight per cent) lower than the same period in 2018," said Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries CEO Tony Weber.
“While the drought and other domestic conditions are impacting the market, our key concern is the effect over-regulation of the financial sector is having on new vehicle sales.
"The FCAI and our members have been concerned about the risk-averse approach to lending in Australia for some time and see improved access to finance as a key to driving economic growth in 2020.
“Of particular interest is the fact that sales are down across all buyer types, with private sales down 5.2 per cent compared to October 2018, business sales are down 8.2 per cent and government sales are down 7.3 per cent.”
110
nextpreviousVFACTS: October 2019 sales results
