
# Insider Drops Bombshell About Barca Coach

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:01:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/laliga/insider-drops-bombshell-about-fc-barcelona-coach/666993)

With FC Barcelona coach Ernesto Valverde seemingly in the firing line after a string of poor results, an insider has now dropped a huge bombshell regarding the Spaniard's future.

        
          Click through the mini-gallery above to see five coaches who have been linked with the Barcelona hot seat!
        
      
The Catalan giants are still top of the LaLiga table, but have lost three games already this season.
Following his side's uninspiring 0-0 draw with Slavia Prague in the UEFA Champions League on Tuesday, Valverde has once again come under scrutiny, with many questioning if he is the right coach for the club.
Former Argentina international Claudio Borghi, who won the 1986 FIFA World Cup with his country, has now claimed that insiders have told him his countryman Marcelo Gallardo will take over from Valverde.
Post Selfies On Soccer Laduma's Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now 
"Gallardo will be installed as Barcelona coach in December," Borghi said, as quoted by AS.
"At the moment, he is one of the best coaches in the world. (River Plate chairman Rodolfo) D'Onofrio has already said that Gallardo will only leave if he decides to quit his post, but this has come to me from a direct source.”
The River Plate manager is regarded as one of the best coaches in the game right now after leading the Argentine giants to a second successive Copa Libertadores – the South American Champions League – final.
Borghi claimed that Barcelona are lining up the 43-year-old but have to wait until after the Copa Libertadores final, in which River will play against Brazilian giants Flamengo on 23 November.

        
          Read: 9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
Gallorda joined River in 2014 and has since won 10 trophies, including two Libertadores titles, while Barcelona were knocked out of the UEFA Champions League after giving away commanding 3-0 leads in successive campaigns.
River Plate, though, have denied the rumours so far.
