
# Last Christmas review – Emma Thompson's romcom is an overstuffed turkey

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:00:16+00:00**

Author: **Benjamin Lee**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/nov/06/last-christmas-review-emma-thompson-emilia-clarke)

2 / 5 stars 2 out of 5 stars. An attempt to pay tribute to the music of George Michael and the fandom of Love Actually fails on both counts and at many more things along the way
Somewhere in the last decade, audiences, and in turn financiers, fell out of love with the London-set romantic comedy, a subgenre that had almost single-handedly been keeping the British film industry alive, or at least somewhat in profit. They were repetitive, predictable and filled with characters who were exclusively, uncomfortably, posh and white yet they were also undeniably effective crowd-pleasers and like many, I’ve missed them, as parodical as they can often be. So has Emma Thompson, it seems. Because with all the confidence of a well-spoken Oxbridge alumnus delivering a climactic declaration of love in a public place, she’s chucked together Last Christmas, a thirsty little festive film eager to remind us all why we actually loved Love Actually in the first place.
Based on the song by Wham! because sure, Last Christmas tells the story of George Michael-obsessed, former Yugoslavian 26-year-old Kate (33-year-old Emilia Clarke, with a regular posh accent), a Disneyfied Fleabag whose foibles are cutesy rather than catastrophic. She spouts lines like “Why is my life so shit?” and “A shitting bird just shit in my eye!” while working in an an all-year-round Christmas store in Covent Garden (!!!) dressed as an elf (an outfit she keeps on even when she’s off the clock for some bizarre, unexplained reason). But Kate really wants to be a professional singer although she’s technically sort of homeless and lives on whatever couch she can find. She avoids her concerned mother (Thompson, thick comedy accent), exhausts her beleaguered boss (Michelle Yeoh, trying her darndest), frustrates her ever-decreasing circle of friends and drifts from shag to shag while struggling to make anything substantial last.
But then, in one of the clumsiest meet-cutes in recent memory, while dusting Christmas decorations, she spots a handsome stranger (Henry Golding) staring at a bird. After a shit on her face (from the bird, not Golding), the pair start to fall for each other and go on a number of geographically questionable saunters around the city. But why does he keep disappearing on her? Can she sort out her life? And would Richard Curtis approve of this?
