
# Spider-Verse sequel confirmed for April 2022

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:21:25+00:00**

Author: **Petrana Radulovic**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/1/20944345/spider-man-into-the-spider-verse-sequel-release-date)

The sequel to Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse will swing into theaters on April 8, 2022.
The date was revealed on Twitter, with a very brief teaser that showed Miles’ graffitied Spider-Man logo interdimensionally glitching, with the year 2022 flashing in the middle of it.
A follow-up to the Academy Award-winning animated film was announced in November 2018, even before the film’s premiere, along with a spinoff focusing on Spider-Gwen and other female Spider-characters such as Silk and Spider-Woman. It’s not confirmed which of those sequels/spinoffs this one is. The logo at the center is Miles’ emblem, and the Marvel announcement specifically said “sequel,” so we’re gonna guess that this is the directly Miles-focused movie.
The end of Into the Spider-Verse saw all the Spider-people — Peter B. Parker, Gwen Stacy, Spider-Ham, Spider Noir, and Peni Parker — back in their respective dimensions. But right before the credits ran, a flash of Gwen’s dimension color scheme opened up and greeted Miles, indicating some sort of cross-dimensional travel. The post-credits scene also had Spider-Man 2099 (Oscar Isaac) using a dimension jumping device. Will the crew come back?
The upcoming sequel comes from director Joaquim Dos Santos (Voltron: Legendary Defenders), with David Callaham (Wonder Woman 1984, Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings) writing. There is no further production news.
