
# Pixel 4 Camera UI & Astrophotography Mode Now Available For Older Pixels

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:24:28+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/pixel-4-camera-ui-astrophotography-mode-now-available-for-older-pixels.html)

Those of you who own older Pixel smartphones and have been waiting for new camera features, well, the wait is over. Google has started rolling out Google Camera 7.2 with Astrophotography mode and a new Pixel 4 camera UI.
This is the same UI you'll find on the brand new Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL smartphones, by the way. This will see the Night Sight feature moved to the main interface, and thus making it far easier to access.
The mode switcher is now on the bottom of the display, while the top-bar controls have been replaced by an options panel. You can slide down that options panel or tap the arrow to open it. Once you do that, you will be able to access various settings.
Advertisement
This new UI definitely makes more sense. Not only will you be able to access various mode without a problem, but won't have to dig around various menus to enter the camera settings.
As part of this new UI, you're also getting redesigned zoom and exposure sliders. A viewfinder level is also included in this UI, so it will let you know when you've tilted the phone too much while shooting something, and will also provide you with framing hints.
You can now also press and hold the shutter button while in the camera mode to record a video. This is a neat little addition / shortcut that can prove to be quite useful.
Advertisement
Now, most of you have probably been waiting for the Astrophotography mode more than the new UI. Well, you'll be glad to know that it's added now.
That mode is available for the Pixel 3, 3 XL, 3a, and 3a XL only, though. Do not expect to have access to it from the original Pixel or Pixel 2.
This mode allows you to take some really great shots of the night sky with the device. It's part of the Night Sight feature, and you will need to prop up your phone in order for this to work.
Advertisement
Astrophotography option is not a separate mode in settings, it will essentially kick in on its own when needed.
This update is rolling out as we speak, via the Google Play Store. It is rolling out to the Pixel 2, 3, and Pixel 3a series of devices. At least users using those devices have reported that they received it.
The update may take a while to reach all devices, as it's usually the case with app updates. So, if you don't receive it during the day, don't panic, it will arrive within a couple of days, probably.
Advertisement
