
# UK weather forecast: 'Scandinavian chill' to grip Bonfire Night before snow hits

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:54:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/uk-weather-forecast-scandinavian-chill-20803123)

Britain could see its coldest November since the 2010 Big Freeze with a 1,200-mile wide 'Scandinavian shiver' set to grip the country from Guy Fawkes Night.
Overnight temperatures are set to plunge to -4C in parts of the country this week, there is a risk of frost and ice and snow is expected over high ground from midweek.
The Met Office is predicting colder-than normal conditions lasting for at least a week, but the chilly snap could go on for much of the month.
Britons who are heading to Bonfire Night festivities have been told to wrap up and keep warm as cold air from Scandinavia arrives on Tuesday.
 
Most will shiver through 6-8C daytime maximum temperatures from Wednesday, with nights falling from -2C on Tuesday night to -4C by the weekend in the north.
Lows in the south will be just above the freezing mark.
Midweek sees Scotland face snow on high ground and ice worries, with 50mph gusts in the South West.
Heavy rain was falling in parts of Scotland on Sunday with flood alerts for Aberdeenshire and Dundee and Angus.
In England, there were two flood warnings (for Bristol Avon from Chippenham to Melksham, and River Esk from Briggswath to Ruswarp) and 43 alerts following Saturday's torrential downpours.
A flood warning was issued for the River Ritec at Tenby in Wales, in addition to four alerts as of Sunday evening.
The weather is set to turn colder after Britain was battered by hurricane-force winds of 109mph and heavy rain that caused flooding on Saturday.
Computer forecast models point to this November being the coldest since 2010, said The Weather Outlook.
A November average temperature under 4.9C, 1.3C below normal, would be the UK's coldest November since 2010, Met Office records show.
Weather maps show all of the UK with temperatures between 1C and 3C below average over the next week, a forecast by the UK-based European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts said.
The Big Freeze in 2010 began with -18C lows in Wales on November 28, followed by a month-long whiteout and travel mayhem with lows down to -19C in England and -21C in Scotland.
The Weather Outlook forecaster Brian Gaze said: “After a number of mild Novembers in recent years, computer models for the month ahead suggest this November is set to be the coldest since 2010.”
Forecaster John Hammond, of weathertrending, said: “There are similarities between the current set-up and November 2010.”
Met Office forecaster Luke Miall said: “A much colder spell of weather arrives as cold air sinks down from Scandinavia and the Arctic from Tuesday.
“Wrap up warm for Bonfire Night and wear wellies. After recent rain, there's the risk of cancellations for events using parking on grass.
“Tuesday night looks dry but frosty, with -2C lows in Scotland, with cold nights in the south as well later in the week and -4C possible
“Daytime temperatures will struggle to 6-8C for many this week, with midweek showers cold enough for snow in Scotland and to lower levels on Shetland, with 50mph gusts forecast in the South West.
“The pool of cold air stays with us and it looks like remaining on the cold side from the weekend onwards.”
A Met Office forecaster said: “Temperatures may stay below average this week, bringing the risk of frost and ice.
“November 17 to December 1 is more likely to be below-average at the start of the period, then become near-average towards the end of the month.”

        Sunday night
      
Rain will become heavy and locally persistent across eastern Scotland, accompanied by a strengthening easterly wind.
Elsewhere further bands of showery rain moving north-east.
Clear periods in between will lead to fog patches.

        Monday
      
Heavy rain and strong winds will continue across eastern Scotland.
Elsewhere, fog patches may be slow to clear.
Many places will then see showers, locally heavy, with some bright spells.

        Tuesday to Thursday
      
Rain across eastern areas on Tuesday but drier conditions in the northwest following south-east.
Frost early Wednesday but more rain spreading east, becoming persistent and heavy in places into Thursday.
