
# Kim Kardashian unveils second Halloween outfit and transforms into Flinstones with Kanye and kids

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:49:58+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kim-kardashian-unveils-second-halloween-20790598)

Kim Kardashian has treated us to not one but two Halloween looks this year, proving she does not do spooky festivities by halves.
After wowing fans with her Legally Blonde homage - that included a full recreation of the Harvard Law School video from the movie - Kim has returned to social media a day later with her second stab at fancy dress.
This time Kim, 39, had her whole family transform into The Flinstones.
Kim shared snaps on insta of her rocking the iconic blue mini dress and cropped black wig made famous in the cartoon by Betty Rubble.
The reality star also roped in her four children and even husband Kanye West to help complete the look.
Her eldest daughter North donned a white dress, red wig and rock necklace to become Betty's pal and neighbour Wilma Flinstone.
While Kim's youngest daughter Chicago also got into the Halloween spirit as she dressed as the Flinstones' baby Pebbles.
If that wasn't enough, Kim shared even more snaps that revealed her son Saint dressed as lead character Fred Flinstone while baby Psalm was a very adorable Bamm Bamm Rubble.
And there were no prizes for guessing who Dino the dinosaur was.
Step forward, Kanye West who was hiding inside an incredible giant purple bodysuit.
But there was one person who wasn't too impressed with Kanye's outfit.
Kim revealed her daughter Chicago had to be Photoshopped onto the family picture because she was too frightened to stand beside her dinosaur daddy.
Kim explained: "This family pic was such a challenge because Chicago was so scared of Dino! LOL We tried to explain and show her that it was just daddy but she didn’t get the concept yet!
"So shout out to the photographer for editing her in & making our family Flinstones dreams come true!"
Yabba Dabba Doo!
