
# Hologate VR Serves Its Five Millionth Customer

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Charlie Fink**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/charliefink/2019/11/07/hologate-vr-serves-its-five-millionth-customer/)

Hologate, the leader in location based entertainment with over 300 locations worldwide, announced today they have served their 5 millionth customer. We estimate the gross revenue associated with this number of plays to be in the neighborhood of fifty million dollars. “Being able to create an experience that is so globally valued is truly an honor for us.” said Leif Petersen, CEO of Hologate, in their press release. Petersen founded the Munich-based company over seven years ago. 
We’ve been following the story of Hologate since 2017 when they seemingly burst onto the scene with the first small footprint four player free roam (ish) installation that could be operated by one person. Hologate has many popular titles, including “Angry Birds 2,” “Das Boot” and a VR game based on the classic “World of Tanks.”
Last year at IAAPA, Creative works, Hologate’s North American distributor, was offering owners financing for the installation, which costs $89,000, plus nominal software licensing fees. "This milestone shows the enormous impact this attraction brings to venues all over the world. The revenue and ROI numbers are great for operators,” said Armando Lanuti, President of Creative Works.
Two Bit Circus, the world’s first micro-amusement park and one of Hologate’s flagship locations has been running two Hologate’s since their launch in September 2018. "Hologate has not only developed VR experiences that are social, engaging, and fun, they've hit a milestone that most VR companies can only dream about," said Brent Bushnell, co-founder and CEO of Two Bit Circus.
Rapidly expanding Go Karting chain Andretti’s saw HoloGate at IAAPA last year and bought the unit off the show floor for its Orlando attraction. They’ve since added Hologate to their other locations, where they are reportedly generating between $300,000 - $400,000.
Many people have gotten their first sweet taste of VR from Hologate and attractions like it, which helps move an entire industry forward.
