
# Win a Dream Wedding 2019: All the beautiful moments from the big day

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:56:29+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Gosling, Sarah Waddington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/win-dream-wedding-2019-beautiful-3479463)

An incredible Plymouth couple have tied the knot after winning the wedding of their dreams worth more than £12,000.
Chris Thorning, 40 and Beth Cooper, 39, scooped the big prize in our Win a Dream Wedding 2019 contest, hosted by Plymouth Live and The Herald.
The happy pair met after both having failed relationships previously and have had a "whirlwind" romance ever since.
The couple, from Eggbuckland, had their first ever date on Perranporth Beach after meeting in work, when their eyes met across the photocopier.
This year, the competition was in partnership with Drakes Jewellers and the wedding was held at the stunning St Mellion International Resort.
The lucky couple, who both work at Derriford Hospital, had been previously and separately told they would never be able to have children - but then a miracle happened, and now they have their little daughter Elsie.
On Friday, November 1, they tied the knot during a beautiful ceremony at St Mellion International Resort surrounded by delighted family and friends.
Chris and Beth touched the hearts of Plymouth people after entering the competition.
And there wasn't a dry eye in the house as they committed their lives to each other today.

        Scroll through the beautiful gallery of pictures below
      
Beth said: "It's been amazing and thank you so much to everybody that's given us this incredible gift. It's been lots of fun and giggles and the teams have been fantastic. It really is a dream come true."
When asked if she recommends people applying to win next year, she said:  "Do it! I would totally recommend it, it's been an amazing experience and has been the least stressful way to have a wedding and the most enjoyable."
Chris added: "We can say thanks but it doesn't go as far as it needs to, we can't thank them enough. So many people have helped us now, it's unbelievable. It's gone so quickly as well - too quickly. We're trying to savour every moment."
The Herald and Drakes Jewellers joined forces with St Mellion International Resort, along with several other fantastic wedding supply businesses to provide the ultimate big day package.
After thousands of votes were cast by eager couples hoping to win the once-in-a-lifetime prize, a judging panel whittled down the final ten to one lucky winner - and the journey began.
The love-birds visited Drakes Jewellers in Plymouth’s shopping mall to kick-start the excitement and looked at a wide selection of dazzling diamonds.
With £2,000 to spend, they were overwhelmed with the selection but Beth knew exactly what she wanted. She tried on just three rings and the third was almost an exact match so she decided on an 18 carat white gold band with diamonds set half the way around the band with a beautiful, vintage feel.
Monique Hirshman, director of Drakes Jewellers, spoke of the journey the jewellery business went on with the couple.
Monique said: “Watching our winning couple, tie the knot each year is always such a special moment for me and one of the highlights of my year.
"Huge congratulations Mr & Mrs Thorning! We have absolutely loved watching you become husband and wife today in a such a beautiful setting at St Mellion. It has been a real pleasure for us getting to know you and the beautiful Elsie throughout the process. We wish you all the love and happiness in your future together.”
Next up was the all-important visit to their stunning and enchanting venue, St Mellion, where they decided on crucial aspects of their big day.
The sprawling property, set in 450 acres of rural Cornish splendour, offers an unforgettable wedding reception venue as well as mown fairways and mature woodlands providing an impressive backdrop for photos of the special day.
A St Mellion spokesperson said: "We are delighted to be part of Beth and Chris's BIG day, it's very rewarding to see them so happy today and taking the opportunity we want to join their family and friends and wish them all the best... remember that love and marriage get better with each passing year. May all that you feel today be just the start. We hope to see you again celebrating your anniversary with us in 2020 and all the years to come!"
Bride-to-be Beth visited The Wedding Company in Plympton to try on numerous, beautiful wedding dresses in a bid to find the perfect fit and that, she certainly did.
Meanwhile, Matt headed along to Groom's Room on the Ridgeway in Plympton to find a suit for the big day. The store offers formal suit hire and prides itself on kitting out men of all shapes and sizes.
The couple went along with daughter Elsie to visit graphic designer Alan Lomax of F3 Design Wedding & Event Stationery.
He creates unusual and quirky table plans which couples can keep with built-in lighting, engraved glass, floating flowers and even smoke.
Flowers by Catherine helped the pair to pick some beautiful arrangements for their big day.
Catherine focuses solely on the couple who are about to get married and ensures that they receive exactly what they dream of for their big day. With a unique approach, the team uses skills and expertise to bring to life your desires and personality in flowers.
Next up, Beth headed to Debenhams in the city centre to get some advise and try on a whole range of dresses in the bid to find one that would make the girls feel a million dollars.
The happy couple were then spoilt with culinary experience at sweet treat specialist's Celebrations Cakes by Kelly in Stoke. From cupcake towers to striking centerpieces, Kelly wows guests everytime.
The whole family had a magical audio experience when they discussed entertainment plans for the big day with Love Audio. Paul Webber began Love Audio in 2003 and works to provide not only entertainment at weddings and other special occasions but also telephone on-hold solutions for businesses, online video narration, jingles and voice-over work.
And the adventure didn't stop there as Beth and Chris met with Shield Media Services which provides aerial and ground wedding photography and video, using the latest, state-of-the art drones and camera equipment.
Every bride has to arrive in style too and so the pair visited Plympton business Westcountry Wedding Cars. The business has even been privileged to have royalty sit in their vehicles, which means the family prides itself on everything being just perfect.
The blushing bride spent the afternoon being pampered by the team at Fox House Retreat as every woman wants to feel a million dollars on their wedding day. The popular and glamorous salon provided Beth with gorgeous hair and makeup for the special day.
