
# Fantastic Beasts 3 Set In Brazil, Starts Filming Spring 2020

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:26:14+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/471056-fantastic-beasts-3-is-set-in-brazil-and-will-start-filming-in-spring-2020)

After a couple of rough years, the fans of the Wizarding World have finally gotten some good news. According to a report by Deadline, it seems that Warner Bros. has greenlit the third installment in the Fantastic Beasts saga with production starting next year in spring. The story will keep on exploring wizarding cultures across the globe, in line with what we saw before. In the upcoming movie, Newt Scamander’s adventures will bring him to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
Fantastic Beast 3 should have already started filming in July 2019. It seems, though, that Warner Bros. has learned from the mistakes from the past — think about The Crimes of Grindelwald or Justice League — and now they let big movies gestate as long as required.
Additionally, comedian and actor Jessica Williams will have a bigger role in Fantastic Beasts 3. Williams made her debut as Ilvermorny School of Witchcraft and Wizardry Professor Eulalie “Lally” Hicks in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald.
Fantastic Beast 3 will see the return of Eddie Redmayne as Newt Scamander, Jude Law as Albus Dumbledore and Johnny Depp as Gellert Grindelwald. Ezra Miller, Alison Sudol, Dan Fogler, and Katherine Waterston will return; as Credence, Queenie Goldstein, Jacob Kowalski, and Tina Goldstein respectively.
David Yates will likely make his return behind the camera direct Fantastic Beasts 3, while Harry Potter creator J. K. Rowling is working on the script together with Steve Kloves. David Heyman, J.K. Rowling, Steve Kloves, as well as Lionel Wigram, and Tim Lewis will produce the movie along with executive producers Neil Blair, Danny Cohen, Josh Berger, and Courtenay Valenti.
Fantastic Beasts 3 apparates into theaters on November 2021. Are you excited to discover the Brazilian wizarding community? Share with us your thoughts in the comments section below.
