
# Erling Braut Haaland asking price amid Man Utd and Liverpool transfer interest

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:07:37+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/erling-braut-haaland-asking-price-20818477)

Red Bull Salzburg are reportedly looking to land a €100million (£86m) fee for star striker Erling Braut Haaland.
The Norwegian wonderkid has been linked with Manchester United , Liverpool and other top European clubs after his stunning breakthrough this season.
The 19-year-old ace, son of former Leeds and Manchester City star Alf-Inge, has already bagged 12 goals in 11 Austrian top flight games as well as six in three in the Champions League to alert more than 20 clubs.
Whilst the Austrian champions have publicly declared they do not intend to sell Haaland, Italian newspaper Tuttosport claim they are already putting out feelers to interested parties.
They claim that the club are willing to encourage a huge transfer battle as they demand a massive fee for the youngster, knowing top clubs could enter a bidding war.
Haaland has previously admitted he would love to follow in the footsteps of his father by playing in the Premier League, despite recently labelling speculation over his future "boring".
The teenager told reports in Austria: "I want to be the best.
"I have dreamed of playing for the best clubs in the world my whole life, and I especially like English football."
He impressed under Manchester United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer at Molde and could be reunited with his Norwegian compatriot at Old Trafford.
Speaking about Solskjaer, who handed him his senior debut, earlier this season, Haaland told TV2: "He has had a huge impact on my life, both as a person and as a trainer.
"He won the Champions League and was an incredibly good player. He has taught me a lot."
But Jurgen Klopp is also said to be an admirer, with Haaland coming off the bench to score at Anfield last month.
Real Madrid and Juventus are also amongst the clubs said to be interested in handing Haaland his major move.
