
# 'Marvelous Mrs. Maisel' Actor Brian Tarantina Died At Age 60

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:57:07+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/marvelous-mrs-maisel-actor-brian-tarantina-died-at-age-60-19291155)

Best known for his roles on Gilmore Girls and The Marvelous Mrs. Maise, the actor Brian Tarantina died at age 60 on Saturday, as per The Hollywood Reporter. Early Saturday morning, Tarantina passed away at his home in Manhattan, after police found the actor unconscious and unresponsive. The New York City medical examiner's office has yet to determine an official cause of death or conduct an investigation. Laurie Smith, a representative for Tarantina, reported the actor suffered complications related to recent illness, as per THR.
A prolific actor, Tarantina most recently appeared as Jackie, the manager of the comedy club called The Gaslight in The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel. Throughout the series, protagonist Midge Maisel and her manager Susie Myerson get in funny arguments with Jackie over securing a spots on the club's comedy stage. On Saturday, The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel paid tribute to Tarantina on Twitter, sharing a still photo from the show and writing: "The Gaslight won’t be the same without you. Thank you Brian Tarantina for sharing in all of the laughs. Sending love to his family and friends in this difficult time."
In January, Tarantina joined the cast at The Screen Actors Guild Awards, where the popular show won "Outstanding Ensemble In a Comedy Series," as per E! News.
