
# Team Arrow Goes to Russia in New Arrow Episode 8.05 Promo

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:16:14+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/471140-new-arrow-episode-8-05-promo)

The CW has released a new promo for the upcoming Episode 5 of the eighth and final season of Arrow. Next week, Team Arrow will travel to Russia in order to attempt to stop The Monitor. The synopsis of the next episode of Arrow reads as follows:
Upon learning the key to oppose The Monitor (guest star LaMonica Garrett), Oliver (Stephen Amell) and team return to Russia on a mission to gather the necessary materials. Diggle (David Ramsey) reunites with a figure from his past.
Laura Belsey directed the episode written by Benjamin Raab and Deric A. Hughes. You can watch the new Arrow Episode 8.05 promo in the player below.
Arrow stars Stephen Amell as Oliver Queen, as well as David Ramsey as John Diggle, and Katie Cassidy as Laurel/Black Siren. Rick Gonzalez plays Rene Ramirez/Wild Dog, with Juliana Harkavy as Dinah Drake/Black Canary. Charlie Barnett (Russian Doll) joined the cast as Diggle, Jr. — known as J.J. —  the Flashpoint-born son of John Diggle (David Ramsey) and Lyla Michaels (Audrey Marie Anderson). We’ll meet J.J. in the future as the leader of the Deathstroke Gang. There he faces off against Mia and his adopted brother, Connor.
Based on the DC characters, the series is executive produced by Greg Berlanti, Marc Guggenheim, as well as Wendy Mericle and Sarah Schechter. Additionally, Bonanza Productions Inc. produced the show in association with Berlanti Productions and Warner Bros. Television.
The next episode of Arrow Season 8 will air on The CW on November 19.
