
# Terminally ill Cambuslang man's wedding joy at Princes and Princess of Wales Hospice

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:08:29+00:00**

Author: **Edel Kenealy**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/terminally-ill-cambuslang-mans-wedding-20823685)

A very much in love Cambuslang couple have tied the knot in the first wedding to be held at the new Princes and Princess of Wales Hospice.
Robert Dobbs, 48, married his partner of 16 years, Andy Dickson, on Saturday, October 19 at an emotional ceremony in the sanctuary of the hospice at Bellahouston Park.
Robert proposed to Andy one week previously and managed, with the help of their families, hospice staff and their celebrant, to organise the wedding of their dreams in seven days.
In 2014, Cambuslang man Robert was diagnosed with cancer but with treatment managed to go into remission. However, he found out recently that the cancer had returned and is now terminal.
With his health failing he was admitted to the hospice in October.
He said: “The care I have had since coming here is second to none. I feel when you are admitted to hospital, you go in as a patient and you leave as a patient.
“With the hospice, you are admitted as a patient but you leave as a friend.
“I wouldn’t choose to have my wedding anywhere else but here at the hospice. It doesn’t feel like a hospice at all, it feels like a five star hotel.
“Everyone has been so kind and they’ve made me and Andy feel so at home. We’ve even had our dog, Leo, a bichon frise, with us all the time.
“Leo had pride of place at the ceremony as ring bearer.”
The couple were overwhelmed with members of the public and local businesses’ offers of donations and gifts for their wedding .
Kilts and bridesmaid dresses were donated by Kilts 4 U in Hillington.
Signs and lighting were organised and following the ceremony and reception at the hospice, guests were invited to an evening celebration donated by House For An Art Lover.
Speaking about people’s donations, Andy said: “We have been completely bowled over by everyone’s generosity but we are so grateful. We’d like to thank everyone for helping and donating to make our wedding such a perfect day for us both.”
He added: “We couldn’t have managed to organise this all without the help of the staff. They have been amazing.
“Instead of wedding gifts, I have asked that people donate to the hospice instead. They really do make such a difference to people’s lives.
“I hope that I’ll be back in a year’s time to celebrate my first anniversary here with my friends at the hospice.”
Rhona Baillie, chief executive of The Prince and Princess of Wales Hospice , said: “We were absolutely thrilled to be able to host Andy and Robert’s special day here in the hospice.
“This is our first wedding since moving into our new building a little under a year ago. We are delighted that the stunning building and grounds were the backdrop for such a beautiful occasion.
“I am so proud of our staff. They have been with Robert and Andy on every step of this journey. We really don’t just care for people’s health here, we care about the whole person.”
