
# Jordan's Ambassador to Return to Israel After Row on Detainees - Netanyahu's Office

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:41:53+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/middleeast/201911041077224019-jordans-ambassador-to-return-to-israel-after-row-on-detainees---netanyahus-office/)


        TEL AVIV (Sputnik) - Jordan's ambassador will return to Israel in the coming days since the two countries signed an agreement that implied the transfer of responsibility of two Jordanians, arrested in Israel, to the Jordanian Security Forces, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's office said on Monday.
      
Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi previously recalled the ambassador in Israel, Ghassan Majali, for consultations over the illegal detention of two citizens of the kingdom in Israel.
According to the statement, Israel considers the relationship between Jordan and Israel as a cornerstone of regional stability and will continue to act to ensure the region's security.
The Jordanian foreign minister earlier stressed that Israel was completely responsible for the deteriorating health of the detainees. He also added that Jordan will take all legal and diplomatic measures to return its citizens.
Israel detained Hiba al-Labadi, 32, on her way to a wedding at the Allenby crossing in the Jordan Valley on 20 August. Abdul Rahman Miri Miri, 29, was arrested on 2 September as he entered the West Bank from Jordan while heading for a wedding. The Palestinian Authority Prisoners Affairs Commission has said that both of them were held under administrative detention orders. Al-Labadi went on a hunger strike after being arrested which resulted in several hospitalisations. Miri also had health issues as needed regular checkups after battling cancer in 2010.
