
# Revolutionary leadership

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Ahmad Saade**

Original: [An-Nahar](https://en.annahar.com/article/1061502-revolutionary-leadership)

Revolution is only sincere, honest and real in the hands of the masses - BakuninIn this article, I seek to address a concern expressed by some “experts” and fractions of the population in regard to the revolution’s lack of leadership. Mainly, contrarily to the predominant opinion, I argue that the absence of a leader is an asset and not a liability or risk to the revolution. I will describe why a revolutionary leader would be ineffective but also a danger for the revolution.To the best of my knowledge, Lebanon is no sanctuary for human rights advocates, and the regime is no stranger to twisted methods of oppression. We can expect that, in the case of the emergence of a revolutionary leader at this stage, the regime will use coercion, corruption or violence to get rid of this individual. Does one grow a head for it to be chopped off? The emergence of a revolutionary leader would be useless. Our people are fighting a long-established structured system of corruption, a spider’s web of oligarchs. Such a structure cannot be challenged by one, two or three honest men or women. They will be eliminated, one way or another. The establishment must be torn apart by the disorganized masses. Furthermore, is there anything more confusing than not being able to identify your enemy? The unfolding of a popular leader will only help the regime put a face on the revolution, and then get rid of it. The people must not give this privilege to the oppressor. The emergence of a revolutionary leader would be a direct threat to the uprisings’ objectives. First, the elimination of this person, whether physically or through corrupting her (rendering her a traitor to the revolution), would be a major hit to the population’s morale. As History has repeatedly shown, this hit in morale will probably lead to a deceleration of revolutionary efforts. Second, let us not drown in the illusion of popular union. Indeed, people are more united than ever, but this union is not strong enough. Sectarian, geographic and other types of tensions remain, and the emergence of a leader will only cause a feeling of alienation among other popular subgroups, hence division among protesters. Revolutionaries must remain conscious as not to use a “divide and conquer” strategy against their own selves, as honest and pure their intentions might be. Third, History does not swear to revolutionary leaders’ post-revolution goodwill. Assad, Castro, Gaddafi, Stalin, Mugabe and Mussolini (among many others) were all revolutionary figures once, individuals who ended up making history, not in the emancipation of their people, but in its oppression. Is it really what we want, to replace tyrants with new ones? Nominating a leader at this stage would give him a sacred popular image, which in case of revolutionary success, will give him some kind of unquestionable right and predisposition to govern. In fact, aren’t the current Lebanese uprisings targeted at individuals who once fought for their people? Let us not replace a corrupt establishment with another. Leaders must emerge only after the despots go away, after the revolution, only when the people have the ability to rationally, and not emotionally, choose their representatives. Such is the democratic way to freedom, for democracy is the fruit of reason, not emotions. It would be naïve to expect that this article will change the human tendency to look for and follow a leader. In their risk-averse nature, in fear of chaos, people find comfort in the organization hence in leadership. Consequently, and building on my aforementioned discussion, Lebanese revolutionary leadership must take a council form. This council should include representatives of all popular subgroups to prevent alienation. It should be large enough in order to minimize the potential damage in case of government reprisals against one of its members. Finally, it must be dynamic in its individual constituents, decentralized, much similar to a syndicalist structure, without any “superstars”. Ahmad Saade is a Doctoral Researcher in Economic Policy at Cranfield University. The Economics Group he belongs to is consistently ranked among the best in the world. His work is centered around Inequality, Poverty Alleviation and overall Political Economy.) Related Articles Tens of thousands demand sweeping government formation  FPM supporters gather in support of President  US, Gulf allies sanction Hezbollah-Iran network

        Show Comments
      
