
# The image of Nats players cozying up to Trump was jarring for many fans

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:42:45+00:00**

Author: **Melissa Jacobs**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/05/washington-nationals-white-house-trump-kurt-suzuki-ryan-zimmerman)


        Players have every right to visit the White House after a title victory. But the rush to do so angered many fans in a city where the President is reviled
      
This past Saturday marked a monumental day in DC sports history. The scrappy underdog Washington Nationals, at one point 19-31 and now improbable World Series champions, paraded down Constitution Avenue as approximately 750,000 fans showered the team with affection. When Nats fans weren’t screaming “FIGHT FINISHED”, they were rhythmically interlacing their fingers to the team’s unlikely anthem, Baby Shark, for the millionth time. Beaming smiles and cheers were everywhere as manager Davey Martinez spoke of “bumpy roads leading to beautiful places”; the longest tenured National Ryan Zimmerman teared up as he thanked DC, and pinch hitter Brian Dozier took off his shirt and preened around the stage to the Latin pop hit, Calma. It was a remarkable day for Nats fans to bottle forever and the latest example of how sports can be a unifying force
Forty-eight hours later everything changed. The Nationals went to the White House. It was way too soon.
The tradition of welcoming championship sports teams has been commonplace since the Ronald Reagan era. Some individual athletes snubbed the invite in the pre-Trump years but most teams attended whether they were aligned with a particular President’s politics or just wanted to hang with their teammates and check out the White House bowling alley.
Things have shifted since Trump became President. The country is more divided than ever and Trump’s mere presence invokes feelings of rage and sadness to a significant portion of America. Teams such as the Golden State Warriors and the University of Virginia Cavaliers have collectively declined the White House invite or were preemptively not invited – even the New England Patriots didn’t go back this year. Yet attending is still the norm. The Nationals shouldn’t be begrudged for appearing at the White House, but they should have known (they had to know) that incorporating Trump in a celebration that was still fresh and exhilarating was going to squander some goodwill.
Usually White House visits are scheduled well in advance, so to hold this ceremony less than a week after the series wrapped was jarring. By contrast, the Washington Capitals visited the White House more than nine months after they won the Stanley Cup in 2018. It’s as if Trump pettily wanted to destroy the joy of those Nats fans who booed and yelled “lock him up” when he attended Game 5 of the World Series.
