
# Bomb Disposal Expert Left Blind In One Eye After Firework Exploded In His Face

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:38:15+00:00**

Author: **Emily Brown**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/news/bomb-disposal-expert-left-blind-in-one-eye-after-firework-exploded-in-his-face/)


        A former bomb disposal expert is calling for stricter regulations on fireworks after one exploded in his face and left him blind in one eye. 
      
The 55-year-old man, named Aksel, has undergone a numerous surgeries in an attempt to restore his eyesight following the incident, which took place last November.
Aksel left the Irish army after eight years experience of dismantling bombs and was holding a party at his home on Bonfire Night last year when one of the fireworks failed to go off. The former bomb disposal expert went to check the rocket when it unexpectedly exploded without firing into the sky.
The phosphorous from the firework hit Aksel directly in his left eye, leaving him blind.

        Recalling the incident, he said:
      
The 55-year-old described the sensation as ‘being hit in the head by a block of wood’. After realising how bad his injuries were, he was driven to Bath Hospital before being transferred to Bristol in the early hours of the morning.
In the year since the incident, Aksel has undergone 12 surgeries to reattach the eye to the surrounding muscle, with surgeons continuing to try to repair his eye and restore his sight.
He decided to share his story in order to raise awareness about the dangers of fireworks, even if you’d consider yourself experienced.

        Aksel expressed his concern for the ease with which people can purchase fireworks, saying:
      
Aksel said he would ‘love’ to see fireworks banned altogether, but at the very least he’s calling for people to use ‘heat masks, gloves, and other protective gear.’

        The 55-year-old added:
      
His warnings come ahead of Bonfire Night, which takes place tomorrow (November 5). Though the celebrated day has not yet taken place, fireworks have already been the cause of tragedy this year with a puppy dying from a heart attack after being frightened by the loud rockets.
Bristol eye surgeon Kieren Darcy has said the number of ‘devastating eye injuries’ caused by fireworks has increased in recent years, the BBC News reports.
A government spokeswoman said there were no current plans to change the law surrounding the rockets.

        Emily Brown
      
Emily Brown first began delivering important news stories aged just 13, when she launched her career with a paper round. She graduated with a BA Hons in English Language in the Media from Lancaster University, and went on to become a freelance writer and blogger. Emily contributed to The Sunday Times Travel Magazine and Student Problems before becoming a journalist at UNILAD, where she works on breaking news as well as longer form features.
