
# Deodhar Trophy | India B clinches title with middle-order as key

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:07:21+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/deodhar-trophy-india-b-clinches-title-with-middle-order-as-key?utm_medium=rss)


        The final game of the Deodhar Trophy, which India C lost by 51 runs, was always in India B’s grasp as their middle-order showed immense disposition in the first innings itself. Chasing a target of 284 India C, on the other hand, saw their middle-order collapse as they fell short by quite a bit.
      
Kedhar Jadhav top-scored for the India B side, who batted first to post a total of 283/7, which would end up being the winning score for the team. Batting in the second innings, India C couldn’t put on the show that was required of them. There was some intent towards the end, but by then it was too late for the Shubman Gill-led side.
Meanwhile, Parthiv Patel’s men showed character and intent throughout their batting, despite the efforts of the Bengal paceman Ishan Porel who bagged five wickets giving away only 43 runs in his ten overs quota. While Yashaswi Jaiswal consolidated the innings before the Kedar Jadhav show, there was Vijay Shankar and Krishnappa Gowtham accelerating the innings for India B towards the end. 
In answer to that, India C could produce only one fifty-plus score in the form of the 18-year-old Priyam Garg who scored 74 off 77. While Jalaj Saxena, Axar Patel and Mayank Markande did try to elongate the chase for India C, they ended up 51 runs short at 232.9. Meanwhile, Shahbaz Nadeem produced bowling figures of 10-1-32-4 and Mohammad Siraj at 10-1-43-2.
