
# Mum rescued by kind stranger after parental payment error left her 'broken'

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:40:14+00:00**

Author: **Luke Matthews, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/luke-matthews/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/struggling-mum-thanks-stranger-who-20793674)

A mum struggling with postnatal depression who feels like 'every day is a battle' has hailed a stranger who stepped in during a moment of need.
Stephanie Brisbane was already having a bad day when she went to to pick up her much-needed parental leave payment.
After being told she would instead have to wait four months to receive the money due to an 'administrative error' by Centrelink in Australia, the 32-year-old from Sydney broke down in tears.
With her three young children becoming restless around her, a stranger walked over without a word, gave her children a phone to play with to keep them entertained and offered Stephanie a tissue, as reported by the Metro .
 
' The Struggling Mum ' blogger wrote on Instagram : "She didn’t know that Centrelink has stuffed up my paid parental leave for the second time in four months and it’s taking a toll.
"She didn’t know that I have literally just moved house and living out of boxes in chaos and it’s taking a toll.
"She didn’t know that I have bad postnatal depression and everyday is a battle and lately it’s been taking a toll.
"She just knew that I was a struggling mum."
 
Stephanie posted what had happened on a Facebook group to find the stranger who came to her rescue and found it was a mum-of-three named Kelly.
The Good Samaritan replied: "Something honestly just made me get up and come over. I saw myself in you."
After thanking her helper, Stephanie found the random acts of kindness didn't stop there.
The letting agency which the family had used during their move also spotted the post online, and promptly delivered a huge supply of food to 'reduce the stress'.
Stephanie wrote just how grateful she was for the support she had been given, promising to pay it forward, and others loved her feel-good tale.
One wrote: "There sure are some beautiful, kind people in the world."
