
# Big Debate: Should Lorch Have Seen Red v Chiefs?

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:27:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/should-orlando-pirates-thembinkosi-lorch-have-been-red-carded-against-kaizer-chiefs/666657)

It could have been a major turning point in the game as Orlando Pirates’ Thembinkosi Lorch appeared to stand on Kaizer Chiefs’ Khama Billiat, but what really happened?

        Read: Chiefs In Talks With Potential New Signing!
      
The Glamour Boys ended up winning the game via a penalty shootout after having come from behind to get level at 1-1 before letting a 2-1 lead slip in extra time as the game ended at 120 minutes with the scores locked at 2-2.
Lorch, the reigning Absa Premiership Player of the Year, went into the game just one yellow card away from a one-game suspension, but it could be said that he’s lucky to have come out of the game without a longer one.
With just 30 minutes of the game gone, and the score still 0-0, the Bucs star tripped Billiat in his own half in what looked to be a clip of the Zimbabwean’s heels. It was a tackle that he would be given a yellow card for – his fourth of the season – but it remains to be seen whether the referee, Jelly Chavani, saw the event that followed.
Lorch look to have stood on the back of Billiat’s calf when he got up following the original tackle, and it was an infringement that led to a coming together of several players from both teams as the Buccaneers’ forward was chased away.

        Read: Chiefs, Downs - The Ex-Winners Vying For Glory
      
Pirates did eventually go down to 10 men in the second half was Mthokozisi Dube was given his second yellow, but had Lorch been given his marching orders in the first 45 minutes then Chiefs may have avoided the drama of extra time and a shootout altogether.

        Looking at the video below, do you think the Pirates man should have been given a red card?
      
