
# Councillors push for wage freezes, rollbacks in separate motions

Published at: **2019-11-05T02:17:57+00:00**

Author: **Meghan Potkins, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/councillors-push-for-wage-freezes-rollbacks-in-separate-motions)

Two groups of city councillors have come up with separate proposals to slash municipal budgets through either a wage freeze or blanket rollbacks.
Councillors Jeromy Farkas, Sean Chu and Joe Magliocca are calling for a five per cent wage rollback for all unionized and non-bargaining staff in 2020. Similarly, city council and the mayor would also take a five per cent pay cut.
Councillors Ward Sutherland and Jeff Davison are hoping city unions will be open to their proposal seeking a wage freeze in 2020. Their proposal — which would also see council accepting a wage freeze in 2019 and 2020 — is up for debate at council’s finance committee meeting Tuesday.
Both proposals would require unions to agree to revisiting recently settled contracts that contained a wage increase of 1.5 per cent in 2020, following two years of wage freezes.
And both proposals hint that if unions are unwilling to reopen contracts, job cuts could be on the horizon.
“Taxpayers only have so much cash,” said Farkas Monday. “We strongly believe that we don’t want service reductions, we don’t want dramatic layoffs at the city, but at the end of the day, it ultimately becomes a choice for the unions: either they can accept job security or they can accept wage security.”
The proposals have so far been roundly criticized by union leaders who say workers already accepted two years of wage freezes before the “modest” increase that was settled upon for 2020.
“It’s simply political posturing by a minority of these councillors,” said D’Arcy Lanovaz, president of the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE) Local 38. “They know it’s not serious, they know they have no authority to open the contracts.
“It’s kind of frustrating that they’re headed down this path rather than dealing with the actual problems of the city.”
The two pitches arrive just as council is preparing for a tough debate later this month over adjustments to city budgets.
Administration is expected to come up with scenarios to hold the line on municipal spending in 2020 to either a 3.03 per cent increase, 1.5 per cent or zero.
Compounding the difficulty for city officials is the impact of recent provincial budget cuts to capital and operating transfers, as well as the city’s ongoing problem with slumping property values in the downtown that has resulted in huge tax hikes on businesses outside the core in recent years.
Council will have to find approximately $12 million to restore funding to police as a result of the recent provincial budget, as well as a further $15.4 million in response to an increase in the provincial education requisition in 2019.
Chu said he is happy the province is pushing municipalities to cut costs and said he accepts the Alberta government’s decision to increase the amount of property taxes it will be taking from the city in 2019.
“Anytime somebody takes money out of your pocket, you’re not happy, but you have to live with it,” said Chu.
Sutherland said he’s open to discussing his colleagues’ motion on rollbacks, but said a freeze is likely to be viewed as more “reasonable” than wage rollbacks, particularly since unions would have to agree to reopening contracts.
“We do not have the legislative authority to roll back wages, it’s that simple,” said Sutherland.
“I’m asking for members of the unions to have the conversation with their leaders: For 1.5 per cent, (what in some cases amounts to) $18 per paycheque — do you want the person beside you to lose their job?”
mpotkins@postmedia.comTwitter: @mpotkins
