
# Robust Galaxy Note 10 sales helped Samsung's mobile division boost profits

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:20:06+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/robust-galaxy-note-10-sales-helped-samsungs-mobile-division-boost-profits-q3-2019?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Samsung continues to be hit the by the slump in the chip market. The company posted 7.78 trillion won ($6.7 billion) in operating profit for the third quarter, down from 17.57 trillion won ($15 billion) during the same period last year. Consolidated revenue during the quarter was down to 62 trillion won ($53 billion) from 65.46 trillion won ($56.1 billion) last year.
Samsung's IT & Mobile Communications arm posted 29.25 trillion won ($25 billion) and 2.92 trillion won ($2.5 billion) in operating profit in the third quarter. The mobile earnings witnessed an increase compared to the previous quarter thanks to robust sales of the Galaxy Note 10 series, improved product mix, as well as higher margins in the mass-market segment.
Samsung says the sales performance of the Note 10 exceeded the Galaxy Note 9's in the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, however, Samsung expects demand for smartphones to decline slightly, mainly due to seasonal effects and global economic uncertainties.
The company is, however, hopeful that demand for 5G phones will rise next year, although it admits the competition is "likely to remain fierce." To push growth in 2020, the company is planning to launch a more extensive lineup of 5G as well as foldable phones.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Huawei iPad Mate Pro Huawei's upcoming Android tablet is an iPad Pro with a hole-punch display New renders of a possible Huawei flagship tablet with a thin bezel and front camera hole-punch design have leaked. Is it just us, or does this thing look an awful lot like the latest iPad Pro?
      

        4K HDR pass-through Elgato HD60S+ Capture Card review: A PS4 Pro streamer's dream The new Elgato HD60S+ is a dream streaming tool for anyone who games in 4K HDR, such as on the Xbox One X and PS4 Pro. Here's our review.
      

        Ultra-Wide Motorola One Action now available in the U.S. for $350 or less The Motorola One Action is now available in the U.S. and combines a GoPro-like action camera and a smartphone into one affordable $350 package. Pick one up now and you can save $50 off the retail price.
      

        Give me more storage Expand the Note 10+ storage with one of these microSD cards Samsung has unveiled the Galaxy Note 10+ which includes a microSD card slot, despite a base storage option of 256GB. We have compiled a list of the best microSD cards for your new Galaxy Note 10+.
      
