
# Jepkosgei downs Keitany to win New York marathon

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:34:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/OtherSport/Athletics/jepkosgei-downs-keitany-to-win-new-york-marathon-20191103)

New York - Kenya's Joyciline Jepkosgei ended Mary Keitany's New York Marathon reign on Sunday, powering to victory in her first ever outing over the distance.
Jepkosgei produced a superb tactical race, pulling away from defending champion Keitany in the final few miles to take the tape with an unofficial time of 2:22:38.
The 25-year-old Jepkosgei had never run a competitive marathon before while compatriot Keitany had been gunning for her fifth New York title.
The two women had been part of a three-pronged breakaway that led from around the 12-mile mark alongside Ethiopia's Ruti Aga.
That trio remained out in front as they advanced into Manhattan at mile 16, although Keitany gave the first clue she was struggling after appearing to vomit.
Keitany and Jepkosgei started edging away from Aga by mile 20 and soon the Ethiopian had been dropped from contention.
Jepkosgei then made her move in mile 23, rapidly putting daylight between herself and Keitany and opening up a 16-second lead heading down the stretch.
Heading into the final mile Jepkosgei grimaced as she dug in for victory, glancing over her shoulder to check the presence of Keitany.
Keitany looked comfortable but by that stage had left herself too much work to do and Jepkosgei closed out a superb win, just missing out on Margaret Okayo's 2003 course record of 2:22:31.
South Africa's Gerda Steyn finished in a time of 2:27:48.
