
# Cops hunting Dundee rapist interview over 200 people in bid to track him down

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:30:28+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/cops-hunting-dundee-rapist-interview-20793427)

Police hunting a rapist in Dundee say they've interviewed over 200 people in a bid to track him down.
The man burst into a flat in Balunie Crescent between 10.30am and 11.30am on October 24.
He then subjected a 32-year-old woman to a serious sexual assault .
Tayside Police revealed that more than 200 people have been interviewed and hours of CCTV footage is being reviewed.
Extra officers have been drafted in to patrol the surrounding area.
A dedicated team of both uniformed officers and detectives are probing the incident which police slam as a  'horrendous ordeal' for the victim.
Determined to trace the attacker, officers have launched a fresh appeal for information.
 
Detective Inspector Marc Lorente, said: “This was a horrendous ordeal for a young woman to have experienced and it’s critical we trace this man.
"I would like to reassure the community that our officers are doing everything they can to find the person responsible.
"We have already spoken with more than 200 people and officers are reviewing hours of CCTV footage recovered in the area. "We are continuing to identify a number of people and vehicles in the street and we would appeal to those who have been in the area between 10.30am and 11.30am on Saturday, October 19  to come forward if we have not yet spoken with you."
"Additional uniformed officers continue to patrol the area for reassurance.
"Please feel free to approach these officers with any concerns you may have."
 
The man was wearing a black coloured tammy style hat, a black scarf and a black tracksuit and spoke with a local accent.
Anyone with information is asked to call CID officers at Tayside Divisional Headquarters via 101, quoting CR/28062/19.
Or call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111 where information can be given anonymously.
