
# Not The Best Deal: Albemarle Pays $1.3 Billion For A Lithium Asset— And Closes It

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Tim Treadgold**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/timtreadgold/2019/11/01/not-the-best-deal-albemarle-pays-13-billion-for-a-lithium-asset-and-closes-it/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2787600615&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesAsia)

Too much lithium and not enough demand for the battery-making material have hit the Australian expansion plans of U.S.-based specialty chemical maker Albemarle Corporation which effectively acquired, and closed, a new mine on the same day.The deal to buy a stake in the Wodgina lithium mine in Western Australia was first negotiated 12 months ago, a time when lithium prices were higher and demand for the electric vehicles which use it in their batteries was forecast to be stronger than it is.

        Celebrations Turn Sour
      
Rather than celebrating the deal today turned into commiserations with the workforce sent home and the almost new mine put in mothballs.
As a warning about the slow uptake of electric vehicles (EVs) the Wodgina experience is a prime example of getting business priorities in the correct order which, in this case, mean make sure you can sell what you propose to produce.
Located in the remote Pilbara region of Australia, Wodgina is a mine once best known for producing tantalum which is used in electronic appliances such as cell phones, with lithium originally treated as a nuisance until demand grew from battery makers.
Unfortunately for Albemarle and its Australian partner in Wodgina, a company called Mineral Resources, they plunged into a joint venture at a bad time, just before the price of lithium started to collapse.
Because it is sold in multiple forms the market for lithium is opaque but as a guide the price of a widely-traded material called lithium carbonate has fallen by more than 60% since the start of the year, from $22,000 a ton to $8500/t.
While other mines and lithium processing plants have also closed or slowed output the Wodgina experience is unique in that it is the heart of a deal designed to cement Albemarle’s leadership in the Australian lithium industry where it already has a half-share in the high-class Greenbushes mine.

        Closed Until The Market Improves
      
The chief executive of Albemarle, Luke Kissam, said in a statement that a decision had been made to idle the Wodgina mine until market conditions improve.
The irony of Kissam’s statement is that it started by announcing the closure of the transaction with Mineral Resources that has two stages, firstly a cash payment of $820 million to the Australian company for 60% of the mine and secondly the transfer of a 40% interest in two lithium hydroxide conversion trains to Mineral Resources which took the total value of the transaction up to $1.3 billion.
But the next comment was the Wodgina closure.
“Based on current market conditions, the Wodgina mine will idle production until market demand supports bringing the mine back into production,” Albemarle said.
Albemarle’s share price on the New York Stock Exchange has fallen by $4.50 over the past week to $60.74, and is down by $44.70 (42%) since this time last year.
