
# No need of Nawaz’s genetic test: Punjab health minister

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:56:38+00:00**

Author: **Tufail Ahmed**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2094911/1-no-need-nawazs-genetic-test-punjab-health-minister/)

KARACHI: Punjab Health Minister Dr Yasmeen Rashid has said that ‘genetic test’ was not needed in treatment of idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (iTP) – the disease former prime minister Nawaz Sharif is diagnosed with and facilities to carry out its tests were cited as ‘not available’ in the country.
At Lahore’s Services Hospital, Nawaz was diagnosed with iTP and the medical board had recommended to get done his ‘genetic test’.
Dr Mahmood Ayaz, head of the hospital’s medical board, had said the former premier has been suffering from some ‘serious diseases’ details of which could not be disclosed considering the professional ethics. He had also said that among other tests, Nawaz also needed a ‘genetic test’ whose facilities were not available in the country.
However, the Punjab minister, who is also a practicing physician, told The Express Tribune on Wednesday that ‘genetic test’ was not needed in treatment of the iTP while Pakistan also has the capacity to conduct DNA test for which, according to her, there is no need to travel abroad.
“Nawaz Sharif does not need genetic test. This test is not recommended anywhere in the world for diagnosing iTP. Moreover, there is no need to go abroad to get this test done. We can get the report by easily sending blood samples of the patients,” she told The Express Tribune over telephone.
Earlier in the day, the three-time prime minister and his daughter, Maryam Nawaz, arrived at Jati Umra – their family residence in suburbs of Lahore – after Maryam was formally released on completion of her bail formalities on Wednesday.
An intensive care unit (ICU) has been set up at Jati Umra under supervision of a team of doctors led by Dr Adnan Khan.
Nawaz, who was hospitalised at Services Hospital since October 21 due to critical drop in his platelet count, was released from the hospital on Tuesday. However, the three-time former PM had refused to return home as bail formalities of Maryam – who was attending him – were not completed.
Dr Ayaz briefed the Sharif family about health condition of Nawaz. The former premier’s personal physician Dr Adnan Khan and staff of Sharif Medical Complex were also present at the hospital.
According to Services Hospital, Nawaz Sharif’s platelet count on Wednesday was 28,000.  While handing over his medical reports, Dr Ayaz advised his family to take special care of him. The board also recommended around 12 medicines that will continue to be administered to the PML-N leader.
Nawaz also met the medical board members and thanked them for their services. Later, the former PM was shifted to his family residence in the shape of a convoy.
