
# Macaulay Culkin Reveals Whether He’s Naughty Or Nice With His New Happy Socks Holiday Collaboration

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ann Binlot**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/abinlot/2019/11/05/macaulay-culkin-reveals-whether-hes-naughty-or-nice-as-he-reveals-his-happy-socks-holiday-collaboration/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

If there’s one face we can associate with the holidays, it’s Macaulay Culkin’s. The actor found his way into the holiday zeitgeist some two decades ago in 1990 when he starred as Kevin in the now-iconic Christmas favorite Home Alone. With the holidays around the corner, it only makes sense that Happy Socks would partner with Culkin for its latest holiday collection,” said Viktor Tell, co-founder and creative director of Happy Socks. “It’s not really the holidays unless there are socks under the tree, and Macaulay is on the TV screen. So we put the two together creating this weird and wonderful seasonal delight!“ In the campaign, Culkin strokes an iguana dressed in his ugly sweater best with a pair of Happy Socks.  “You know, every day is a holiday—except for, the holidays,” he jokes on screen before blowing up a gnome and proclaiming he’s, “getting too old for this s**t.” The actor revealed that, “Christmas is my time of year. I get recognized 10x more between the months of November and January. I have no idea why!” I quizzed Culkin about the Happy Socks collaboration, his favorite holiday ritual, and whether he’s naughty or nice. How did the Happy Socks collaboration come about?
The company reached out to me to ask if I was interested in collaborating. Little did I realize: I owned over a dozen pairs of Happy Socks already. Then they sent over a whole box more ( now all the doubles I have are stocking stuffers!)... and the rest was history.  

        How did you come up with the designs?
      
My buddy Joe Oliver is an incredible artist, who also happens to design a lot of merch for my website, bunnyears.com. So he was the first call I made, and he came up with a handful of initial sketches that we then discussed. We wanted to involve bunnies (obviously) and since the socks were going to be available around the holidays we also made sure to include designs that gave a nod towards that. Then we handed everything off to the Happy Socks people – who are all excellent collaborators – and  their team added the classic Happy Socks flair to it.  

        What is your favorite holiday ritual?
      
Doing my best to avoid watching Home Alone on cable. Usually TNT and/or TBS. 

        Tell us about your pet iguana. 
      
Sadly, that isn't my personal iguana, but he was the chillest iguana I've ever met. I'm actually considering getting one of my own now. Do you know how to properly hold an iguana? Because I do (now).  

        Why do you blow up a garden gnome?
      
I love garden gnomes. I own dozens of them. THAT was one of the best parts about working on this campaign, actually, because I got to bring a bunch of them home with me. Fun fact: the Happy Socks people are very generous with their gnome giveaways.

        What are you looking forward to most this holiday season?
      
Curling up by the fire with my lady, opening presents, returning everyone's texts, and wearing these brand-spanking new Happy Socks. See what I did there?
 Are you naughty or nice? 
If hanging out with iguanas and garden gnomes is naughty then I don't want to be nice. 
 
