
# Couple ‘injected childhood friend with meth and filmed her dying in agony’

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:10:53+00:00**

Author: **Talia Shadwell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/talia-shadwell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/couple-injected-childhood-friend-meth-20786162)

A couple have been accused of injecting a childhood friend with a fatal dose of methamphetamine and then filming as she died screaming in agony.
Police in Oklahoma allege the couple didn't want the victim testifying against them in other cases.
Authorities in the state have filed murder charges against Brian and Allie Anderson, who are accused of injecting 41-year-old Melissa Vermillion with the fatal dose.
People reports an affidavit filed in the case alleges the couple filmed Melissa as she died.
The footage reportedly recorded her crying out begging for help several times.
Allie, 42 and Brian Anderson, 50, allegedly did not call 911 to report the overdose until more than an hour after she was dead on the night of October 21, 2017.
Delaware County Sheriff Harlan Moore told local station KOTV Allie Anderson had told police she had been friends with Vermillion since they were eight years old.
Police reportedly suspect the couple wanted Vermillion dead so she couldn't testify agaist them in a drug trafficking case.
Moore said police recovered a video camera that police alleged was used to record Vermillion's death scene.
The couple had been suspects in the case since Vermillion's death two years ago but it wasn't until a confidential informant came forward that authorities were able to lay charges.
Neither of the Andersons have entered a plea.
