
# Chiefs Signing Discusses Life At Naturena

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:13:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/sasman-kaizer-chiefs-can-only-improve/666880)

He was the club’s final signing before the Absa Premiership season got underway, and now Kaizer Chiefs’ newest defender has given some insight into his life at Naturena so far.

        Read: Injury Update For Table-Topping Chiefs As Superstar Misses Trip
      
A suspension that rolled over from last season meant that Yagan Sasman was forced to wait for his Amakhosi debut after signing from Ajax Cape Town, but he’s now staked his claim for a spot in Ernst Middendorp’s side with six appearances since the last week of September. 
The 23-year-old came into the club as a versatile defender that can play as either a left fullback or on the left-side of central defence, and he’ll be delighted with the fact that the Glamour Boys haven’t conceded a single goal in any of the four Absa Premiership matches that he’s featured in so far. 
Now, with Chiefs back in action tonight against Chippa United, Sasman feels that the team can ‘only improve’ on what they’ve shown so far.
Speaking to the club’s official website, the Capetonian said, “With the continuous hard work and everyone working together for the same goal and good communication, everything has been getting better. We can only improve.
“I am really enjoying my football. I think it has been a good start for me. I have been getting time on the pitch and I have been learning from the other guys and I feel I still have a lot to learn.”

        Read: Five Chiefs Internationals Set To Leave
      
Sasman is expected to feature once again this evening when Chiefs take on Chippa for the chance to extend their lead at the top of the table, and he’ll no doubt be itching to make sure his clean sheet record continues in Port Elizabeth.  

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
