
# How to get your child to talk about the day at school

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/parenting/toddler-year-and-beyond/how-to-get-your-child-to-talk-about-the-day-at-school/articleshow/71877643.cms)

For parents, sending their little ones to school can cause panic and excitement in equal amounts. This is why they wait eagerly for their child to get back home and wish to hear all about how his/her day went. While as a parent, it is completely natural to want to know the intricate details of your kid’s entire day, children sometimes clam up. So, if you have asked, “Did you have a good day?”, the reply can range anywhere from one-word answers to nods and even the dreaded “I don’t remember”.
So, if you too want to figure out a way to get your child chatting about his/her day, look no further. Here are 3 easy ways you can strike up a conversation with your little one.

        1. Don’t jump to the questions directly
      
It is not uncommon for children to be overwhelmed after a long day at school. Think about it, they spend a lot of hours by themselves and taking care of themselves. They were not at home where you could take care of their every little need.
To get the conversation flowing you can talk about how your day went and what all you did today. You can also talk about anything exciting that happened, like meeting an old friend or getting rewarded for your hard work at the office. When you do not overload your child with questions and instead take the lead with your own day, you pave way for a conversation.

        2. Talk about what your child loves the most
      
Whether it is the kid’s favourite teacher, best friend or even the lunchtime, try steering the conversation in the direction he/she enjoys to let the little one get talking. From there you can touch upon other topics like what books they chose to read or who did they play with during the break.

        3. Listen more, advise less
      
When you see your kid answering a question enthusiastically, let him/her speak without any break. Even if you feel like advising your little one or asking any more questions, wait till he/she has finished speaking about the current scenario.
