
# Pep Guardiola begins Liverpool mind games as Man City get ready for Anfield showdown

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **David McDonnell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-mcdonnell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/pep-guardiola-begins-liverpool-mind-20802998)

Pep Guardiola wasted no time in starting the mind games ahead of Sunday’s title showdown between champions Manchester City and leaders Liverpool .
Within minutes of Liverpool snatching a dramatic late winner at Aston Villa to preserve their six-point lead, Guardiola was on the front foot, dismissing the notion his side must win at Anfield.
The City boss also accused Liverpool’s match-winner, Sadio Mane, of diving, in what seemed a clear attempt to get under the skin of Jurgen Klopp and his side ahead of their huge encounter.
City overcame a seven-point deficit at the turn of the year to overhaul Liverpool and make it back-to-back titles, with Guardiola convinced they can repeat that feat, even without winning at Anfield.
The Blues have not managed to do that since 2003 but, having won the last two titles without triumphing at Anfield, Guardiola is not losing any sleep over the trip to face their rivals.
Asked if they had to beat Klopp’s side to keep alive the title race, Guardiola said: “We’re going to try, but I don’t think so. How many centuries have they not lost at Anfield?
“We will see. Now we go to Italy to play Atalanta and, when we come back, we go to Anfield.
“When we know what happened today beyond the result - they beat Aston Villa in the last minutes - so there are a lot of games to play.
“Many things are going to happen and there are a lot of games to play.”
Guardiola also branded Mane a diver, after the forward was booked for simulation at Villa Park before scoring the last-gasp winner to preserve Liverpool’s commanding lead.
It is a label that has dogged Mane this season, following accusations of diving against Leicester and Crystal Palace , with Guardiola adding to the controversy.
“Sometimes he’s diving, sometimes he has this talent to score incredible goals,” said the City boss, clearly dispirited by Mane’s 94th-minute winner. “He’s a special talent.”
Before City face Liverpool, they take on Atalanta on Wednesday in the Champions League, with Guardiola adamant he will play his strongest side and not rest players for the Liverpool clash.
That is despite City having maximum points from their three group games so far and able to afford the luxury of resting players to ensure they are fully charged for Anfield.
“No, we’re going to play with the best team possible to win at Atalanta and after that we go to Anfield,” said Guardiola.
“Nobody can assure me that if we don’t do what we have to do at Atalanta, then we’re going to make a better performance against Liverpool.
“The best way to face Atalanta is the way we played today, and the best way to go to Anfield is to play a good game against Atalanta, who have been fighting with the top clubs in Italy for the last two or three seasons.
“They can score four, five, six goals every game, so we’re going to play with what we believe is the best team and try to qualify for the next stage of the Champions League.”
City showed impressive character and resolve to break down stubborn Saints and secure the win their dominance deserved.
Ederson’s rare error in spilling the ball allowed James Ward-Prowse to give the visitors a 13th-minute lead, which they held until 20 minutes from the end.
But goals from Sergio Aguero and Kyle Walker earned City the win and showed Guardiola and his players are unwilling to relinquish their title without a fight.
