
# Rob Kardashian 'feeling body confident' but 'won't return to reality show'

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:05:19+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/rob-kardashian-feeling-body-confident-20813046)

Rob Kardashian has shed more than 20lbs and is loving the reaction to his new slimmed down figure.
The 32-year-old star of Keeping Up With The Kardashians has been keeping a low profile of late, so fans of the reality star were stunned when he shared a rare pic of himself last week.
Fans of the Kardashians were praiseworthy of his efforts and this has reportedly given him a huge boost in his self-confidence.
A source has told Hollywood Life: "Rob loves the reaction [he gets] from everyone – from family and friends. It’s only making him feel better and better all around.”
The reaction to his slimmer frame has led to Rob wanting to up his public profile and he allegedly "wants to start being out more and more."
There is sad news for fans of the Kardashians' reality show though, as it seems that Rob is not going to be heading back to KUWTK any time soon.
The source continued to say that while Rob "will not exactly be seen partying,” but "he actually wants to be out there more now because he wants to live his life."
Rob has apparently embraced his new look and "he’s much more confident now that he looks and feels so much better."
The reality star has hailed the support that he has recieved from his family and fans, saying that it is "making a world of difference."
The source has claimed that Rob's two-year-old daughter, Dream Kardashian, has also been a motivating factor in hitting the gym.
They said: "Rob wants to continue to be healthy and happy for Dream as she continues to grow up."
Fans have been generous in their praise of Rob, who posted a second snap of himself just 24 hours after the first.
It showed him dressed as Papa Troll from the Trolls movie, with Dream donning a Poppy Troll outfit and his followers were quick to share their thoughts and praise.
One fan commented: "Looking real good, Rob."
Another praised him, writing: "Good job on the weight loss Rob. I know the battle. God bless."
One person that has broad smile in the upturn to Rob's fortunes is momager Kris Jenner.
She is hoping that his new lease of life will continue and that he might join the family in a Christmas tradition.
The source said Kris revealed: "She would love to have him be a part of the family holiday card and even filming again this year."

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
