
# Amazon unveils biggest ever Black Friday sale - and it starts a week early

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:39:11+00:00**

Author: **Molly Holt, https://www.facebook.com/mollyjaholt/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/amazon-unveils-biggest-ever-black-20814067)

Black Friday excitement is beginning, and Amazon has just unveiled its plans for 2019.
Calling it its 'biggest ever Black Friday sale', Amazon is set to kick things off a week before the due date, on the 22nd November 2019.
The deals will go live as soon as the clock strikes midnight (well, almost), with Amazon's Black Friday offers officially launching on their website at 00.01 in the morning of Friday 22 November.
New discounts will then continuously be released throughout the next eight days, all the way up until 23.59 on the 29th November - Black Friday evening.
There's no word yet on when the Cyber Monday deals will begin, although Amazon have confirmed that Cyber Monday offers will exist - just not when we can start shopping them.
Last year, customers purchased over two million items on site, with Amazon claiming the money saved totalled a whopping £40 million.
Some of the most popular sale items last year included the Echo Dot (3rd Gen), Instant Pot Pressure Cooker, LEGO Marvel Avengers and Waterpik Professional Water Flosser.
Unlike Amazon Prime Day, Amazon's Black Friday offers will be available to everyone, and not just Prime members.
Amazon first introduced Black Friday to the UK in 2010, with the date conveniently falling on the last pay day before Christmas, making it the perfect time to get all the Christmas shopping sorted.
As well as its online offers, Amazon will also be running a Home of Black Friday pop-up in London across four days (from the 28 November to the 1 December), at 7 Addington Street, London, SE1 7RY - where entry is free of charge.
 
We'll also be keeping an eye on Amazon's Prime Video too, after the online retailer teased the idea of extra offers on there, saying "as well as checking out the huge range of epic deals on offer throughout Black Friday and Cyber Monday, visitors to the Home of Black Friday will have the chance to try out the latest must-have products from beauty to tech and preview the latest screenings from Prime Video."
Talking about their Black Friday plans, Doug Gurr, VP, UK Country Manager at Amazon.co.uk, said “We know how important it is to help our customers save money where they can at this time of year, so we’re excited to be launching our tenth Black Friday Sale to UK customers in the lead-up to the festive season.”
“With new deals announced every day across eight days, savvy shoppers will be able to discover great deals on a huge range of products and stock up on everything they need to make the most of their celebrations.”
