
# New Surface Documents Establish Microsoft’s Intelligent Interface

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ewan Spence**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ewanspence/2019/11/03/microsoft-surface-duo-surface-neo-new-leak-rumor-windows-10x-android/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Microsoft’s announcement of the Surface Duo and the Surface Neo, a year ahead of going on sale, offers Redmond a number of new choices to promote the hardware. And it means that the expected flood of leaks will work in Microsoft’s favour.
The latest details can be found in a patent published on Halloween. Titled ‘Device Having A Screen Region On A Hinge Coupled Between Other Screen Regions’ and filed by Microsoft on July 8 2019, it talks about the placement of user interface elements and how this will be controlled. Mayank Parmar explains:
“With Control logic, Microsoft hopes to render the correct information on one or multiple regions of the screen. Control logic will also determine the state of the hinge and as well as the volume controls to improve the multitasking experience.
“In the filing, Microsoft states that Control logic will handle the movement of UI elements from one side of the device to another. Control logic can also help users with controlling multiple processes.”
The obvious application of this technology would be in the recently announced Surface Neo (running Windows 10X) and Surface Duo (running Android). Both devices are equipped with two screens connected by a 360 degree hinge. They will both require UI elements to jump between active windows and applications that could be split over the two screens, and these will need to be done as seamlessly as possible to the point that Arthur C Clarke would label the process as magic.
Those who have been following the progress of the new Surface devices - which are not due to go on sale until Q4 2020 - will be aware that there has been very little ‘hands on’ time with the devices. What we have seen has been in very short demos in the hands of Microsoft’s Chief Product Office Panos Panay, or in the flashy and stylised promotional videos from Redmond. 
To be fair, the Duo and Neo are still in heavy development, and it is unlikely that the new operating systems on the respective devices are ‘match fit’ to be put in the hands of journalists looking to run a gazillion tabs in a browser, while streaming 4K video, running Lightroom, and keeping open a video chat windows… just to see if anything ‘slows down by half a second’.
The long run up to launch, while being partially in the public eye, means Microsoft can build up the anticipation of a device. It can talk about aspects of the new technology, and can be confident that the publication of patents, code snippets placed in the OS stacks., and any supply chain leaks, will all be harnessed to help promote the device.
Microsoft can do this with a little bit more control now the devices are announced, compared to the options it would have if it had not acknowledged the Neo and Duo at all. It’s a different approach to that traditionally taken by manufacturers - witness the risk that Tim Cook is taking over the MacBook Pro’s 16-inch variant - and it does apply some pressure to the team with next year’s holiday season pretty much unmissable.
But is this any different to the annual cycles imposed by the likes of MWC Barcelona, IFA Berlin, or Apple’s ‘traditional’ September iPhone launch?
