
# Mi CC9 Pro latest teasers hint at interesting features - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:24:10+00:00**

Author: **Abdul**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/02/mi-cc9-pro-latest-teasers-hint-at-interesting-features/)

Mi CC9 Pro latest teasers hint at interesting features4.1 (81.67%) 12 votes
Xiaomi has been teasing the Mi CC9 Pro, also known as Mi Note 10 for almost a week now. The phone is set to go official on November 5 in China but we already know almost all the specifications, thanks to the company itself as well as benchmark and certification listings. Anyways, there was still uncertainty regarding the chipset of the device which has been now confirmed by Xiaomi as Snapdragon 730G this morning. Not very old teasers have confirmed a 32MP selfie camera and four-axis OIS(Optical Image Stabilization) for both 108MP primary sensor and 8MP 5x telephoto lens. One of the latest teasers also hint at a larger sound chamber that will result in better sound.
The Mi CC9 Pro will be the world’s first mass-produced smartphone with 108MP camera and will be powered by the mid-range Snapdragon 730G. However, there are still chances for a higher variant with a flagship chip at least for international markets with the Mi Note 10 series. Xiaomi says the Snapdragon 730G is built on the same architecture and 8nm process like the Snapdragon 855. And hence, the CPU and GPU performance will be 35% and 25% more than the previous generation. Also, it will offer two times the AI performance than its predecessor. Whatever the company says, this chip still falls behind the flagship Snapdragon 855 / 855+ that are seen on smartphones in the same range.
Xiaomi also posted another teaser with a GIF showcasing the breathing notification animation light. It will be compensating for the lack of a notification LED. This feature is already available on MIUI 11 for AMOLED-equipped Xiaomi phones including the Redmi K20 and Redmi K20 Pro. But since the Mi CC9 Pro will feature a curved display, the effect will be similar to ‘Edge Lightning’ on Samsung Galaxy S and Galaxy Note series. 
In total, the phone will feature five cameras on the back and will be backed by a 5,260mAh battery with support for 30W fast charging.
