
# AUS vs PAK | Pat Cummins rested for Perth T20I as preparation for Test series

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:15:55+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/aus-vs-pak-pat-cummins-rested-for-perth-t-20-i-as-preparation-for-test-series?utm_medium=rss)


        Pat Cummins has been released from the Australia squad for the final T20I against Pakistan so as to get an adequate preparation time for the Test series. The pacer directly went to Sydney from Canberra to join New South Wales' Shield team that is preparing to take on Western Australia at the SCG.
      
Australia have never been a potent force in T20s as they have been in the other two formats, but so as to change the popular perception, they are giving their all to secure the title at home. This has been vindicated from the fact that the team are going with the best possible options in the lead up to the mega event next years.
While Pat Cummins was involved in five T20Is, the longest stretch of games for him in the format since the 2012 ICC World T20, Mitchell Starc has featured in all but one game. However, with Test series looming, Australia released Cummins in order to keep himself ready for the red-ball series.
"It's a little bit of recovery and preparing for the Test match. We've got so much cricket on and he plays a lot of it so we've got the opportunity for him not to take the long flight to Perth," Justin Langer, the Australian head coach, was quoted as saying by Sydney Morning Herald.
"In the past, we have used these opportunities to rest some of those guys. But we need to get better at it, it's something that is a priority for Australian cricket. So, therefore, you want to play your best players as often as you can," Langer explained.
With the help of their strong pace-bowling attack, Australia have been heavily dominant in T20s lately, beating Sri Lanka 3-0 and are already 1-0 up against Pakistan. Langer believes that it is possible because of the strong bowling and fielding performances.
"We're playing a really good defensive game. In T20 I've thought for seven or eight years that how you're bowling unit plays and how you field is really important. We're working to build all our bowling stocks so they are able to do those jobs for us. We're really lucky, we've got great depth of the squad."
