
# In Lobby Baby, Seth Meyers Transforms Into His Truest Self: Consummate Wife Guy

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:05:35+00:00**

Author: **Kathryn VanArendonk**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/2019/11/seth-meyers-lobby-baby-netflix-comedy-review.html?utm_medium=s1&utm_campaign=nym&utm_source=tw)

Seth Meyers’s new special Lobby Baby, his first Netflix stand-up project, is a sweet, endearing wash of cuteness. It is also good. The special is tightly wound, carefully observed, well-shot, and snappy. But its dominant impression is of being extremely cute, in a way that usually means Aww, it’s really a cute special! but which occasionally veers into something closer to a self-aware impish cutesiness. In a few places it’s a touch naughty, with a toothless subversiveness that feels less Aww cute! and more, Aha. Cute. As a whole, though, it’s polished and sincere enough that those winking bits of flippant cuteness get subsumed in the larger sense that Lobby Baby is sweetly adorable.
Seth Meyers is a Wife Guy. There’s just no other way to say it. Wife Guys, if this is the first you’re hearing about them, are men whose personalities and public personas are derived mainly from celebrating, describing, co-opting, and otherwise mining content from their wives. They come in many flavors and varieties ranging from hollow to exploitative to super endearing. Brief viral sensation Cliff Wife Guy, for instance, is solidly in gross, weird, exploitative territory; Serena Williams’s husband, Alexis Ohanian, meanwhile, lands in the pleasantly endearing category for, among other things, shadily representing for Williams’s side in a long-term grudge while watching her in the U.S. Open.
Meyers, happily, falls almost uniformly on the appealing side of the Wife Guy spectrum. He is awed by his wife, simultaneously dismayed and overwhelmed by her competence and hilarity. One of the main set pieces of the special, Meyers’s story about the titular Lobby Baby, is a long and well-crafted narrative about the birth of his second son. Meyers positions his wife as the central heroic figure. Firefighters and doormen add color and humor. Meyers himself, meanwhile, is the hilariously useless observer on the side, capable of nothing but cracking wise while his wife does all the work. 
