
# M25 traffic: Motorway shut for hours due to fatal crash involving tanker

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:44:15+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/m25-traffic-motorway-shut-due-20805668)

A busy motorway is expected to remain closed for hours after a fatal crash involving a tanker and a van.
The M25 clockwise is shut between junctions five and six near Godstone, as police deal with the smash.
There are reports of cars turning around in the road and driving the wrong way back up motorway.
Andrew Phillips tweeted: "Cars have begun 3 point turns and heading neck (sic) the wrong way up the m25. Presume we shouldn't?!
"Huge flow of traffic the wrong way on m25 - presumably directed by police? We really need an update on what we should be doing!"
One witness told Mirror Online that drivers were turning around on their own initiative and going the wrong way down the hard shoulder.
He added: "People are just frustrated. Half the carriageway is empty now."
One Twitter user said: "Police didn’t direct. I’m near the front, it’s just people being stupid and turning around."
Early this morning, Highways England confirmed that traffic was being allowed past the crash scene in the fourth lane.
Surrey Police's Roads Policing Unit tweeted: "M25 junction 5 > 6 is CLOSED while we deal with a fatal collision.
"If you are stuck between junction 5 and the scene, please be patient. @HighwaysSEAST officers will be coming to assist but this will take a long time to implement."
Highways England said the road will not open for several hours.
At 4.25am, Surrey Police said it expected junction five to reopen soon, hopefully by 5am.
Drivers are being diverted at junction five, via the A21 south and A25 west, to junction six.
A spokesman for Highways England added: "I can confirm there is now full closure of J5 M25 clockwise.
"This will also include a closure from the A21 #Sevenoaks and a closure from the #M26 J2a on to the M25 and this is due to a serious incident .
"Please be advised it may be closed for some time."
Paramedics, police officers, Highways England staff and firefighters are at the scene. 
