
# STAT WATCH: Hubbard on pace for top rushing total since 2014

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **ERIC OLSON**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/4/stat-watch-hubbard-on-pace-for-top-rushing-total-s/)

Oklahoma State’s Chuba Hubbard turned in his fourth 200-yard rushing performance of the season, and it came against an unlikely opponent.
Hubbard carried 20 times for 223 yards against TCU and became the first player to go for 200 against the Horned Frogs since Gary Patterson took over as head coach in 2000. TCU went into the game 15th against the run (103.7 ypg) and had allowed just six rushes of 20-plus yards. Hubbard broke runs of 92 and 62 yards while piling up 192 in the second half in the Cowboys’ 34-27 win.
Hubbard has rushed for at least 100 yards in seven straight games, the longest active streak in the Football Bowl Subdivision.
His nation-leading 178.2 yards per game put him on pace for 2,317 in 13 games, assuming the Cowboys don’t play in the Big 12 championship game. That would be the highest total since 2014, when Melvin Gordon ran for 2,587 yards in 14 games for Wisconsin.
Joining Hubbard as 200-yard rushers Saturday were Boston College’s AJ Dillon, Mississippi State’s Kylin Hill, Texas A&M;’s Isaiah Spiller and Clemson’s Travis Etienne.
Dillon carried 35 times for 242 yards for his second 200-yard game of the year. Hill ran 21 times for 234 against Arkansas, Spiller carried 20 times for 217 yards against UTSA and Etienne amassed 212 yards on just nine carries against Wofford in his second 200-yard game of the season.
CAN’T BUY A TD
Winless Akron has gone 16 quarters without scoring a touchdown, the longest drought since UConn went 16 quarters in 2016, according to Sportsradar. The Zips’ most recent touchdown was in the fourth quarter against UMass on Sept. 28. They’ve been outscored 131-9 in their last four games.
Northwestern has gone 13 quarters without a touchdown. The Wildcats’ last TD was in the third quarter against Nebraska on Oct. 5.
PASSING PIRATES
East Carolina’s Holton Ahlers became the fifth quarterback this season to pass for more than 500 yards, setting a school record with 535 in a loss to Cincinnati. Ahlers threw for 316 yards in the first half and finished with four touchdown passes. He also ran for a TD.
C.J. Johnson set AAC and school records with 283 yards receiving, the most in the FBS this season. Each of his 12 receptions went for at least 10 yards.
HE’S A TIGER
Memphis’ Antonio Gibson sets the American Athletic Conference record with 386 all-purpose yards against SMU. It was the highest total since Deon Jackson of Duke went for 403 against Pittsburgh in October 2018. Gibson is the first player in the FBS this season to score rushing, receiving and kick return touchdowns in the same game.
VOL GETS THE BALL
Bryce Thompson became the first Tennessee player since 1999 to intercept three passes in a game. Thompson, who entered the game against UAB with no interceptions this season, made his first pick on the first play from scrimmage. He intercepted UAB’s Tyler Johnston III two more times in the second quarter. Thompson is the fourth player in the FBS with three interceptions in a game this season.
ALL THE WAY
UTEP’s Duron Lowe and Oregon’s Mykael Wright are the 12th and 13th players to run back a kick 100 yards. Lowe went the distance against North Texas, and Wright did it against Southern California.
NATIONAL LEADERS
Hubbard’s average of 178.2 yards per game is well ahead of Boston College’s Dillon (142.9 ypg). Other leaders are Washington State’s Anthony Gordon in passing yards (423.4 ypg) and Arkansas State’s Omar Bayless in receiving yards (129.8 ypg).
Team leaders are Oklahoma in scoring (49.3 ppg) and total offense (598.4 ypg), Ohio State in scoring defense (7.9 ppg) and Wisconsin in total defense (223.5 ypg).
More AP college football: https://apnews.com/APTop25CollegeFootballPoll and https://apnews.com/Collegefootball and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
