
# Police in Indonesia find body of man buried under prayer room floor

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:40:18+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Jakarta**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/jakarta/news/police-in-indonesia-find-body-of-man-buried-under-prayer-room-floor/)

Police in Jember, East Java made the gruesome discovery of a man’s body buried underneath the floor of the prayer room in his house. 
According to the police, the victim has all been confirmed to be 51-year-old Surono from Juroju village in Jember. Surono was reported missing seven months ago.
Recently, Juroju village chief Edi said Surono’s son, Bahar, confided in him that his father was buried in the prayer room. Edi then forwarded the information to the police, who smashed the prayer room tiles and dug up Surono’s body on Sunday.
“The victim was Surono and the cause [of his death] was homicide. There was clothing that belonged to Surono, along with his sarong. His height matched with the characteristics of the victim. That assured us that the body was indeed Surono,” Jember Police Chief Alfian Nurrizal told Kumparan yesterday. 
Police say they found blunt force trauma on the back of the victim’s neck, as well as a crowbar that was buried with the body. 
Police have yet to name a suspect in this case, but signs suggest that Surono was killed as a result of a domestic dispute.
Alfian said Surono lived in the house with his wife, 45-year-old Busani, and his son Bahar, who worked in Bali. When Bahar told Edi about his father being buried in the prayer room, he also told the village chief that Surono was killed by Busani after he caught her together with another man named Jumarin. Busani has lived with Jumarin since allegedly killing Surono around seven months ago.
Busani, Bahar and Jumarin have been questioned by police as witnesses.

        Read more Coconuts Jakarta
      
