
# Chris Kamara claims VAR official decided they didn't want Liverpool to score

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:50:59+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/chris-kamara-claims-var-official-20801816)

Sky Sports pundit Chris Kamara has hit out at the VAR decision that denied Liverpool a goal at Aston Villa on Saturday, claiming that the call was deliberately made.
With the Reds trailing 1-0 at Villa Park, Roberto Firmino turned home a Sadio Mane cross to equalise in the first half.
The goal was disallowed on the pitch at the time, but a VAR review showed Firmino to be as good as level with Villa defender Tyrone Mings from Mane's cross.
Indeed, as highlighted by Andy Gray on beIN Sports , Firmino was first shown to be onside before the VAR lines were redrawn and he was marginally off.
The decision ultimately didn't matter too much for Liverpool after they came back to win 2-1 thanks to late goals from Andy Robertson and Mane, but Kamara slammed the VAR officials responsible, with the game being overseen by Martin Atkinson.
“I’m not happy with it, I’ll be 100 per cent honest with you," he said on Sky Sports' Goals on Sunday.
“In my opinion this is made up, this has been made up by somebody at Stockley Park who’s decided they don’t want this to be a goal, and that is my opinion, and that is my honest opinion.
“From the naked eye you don’t need that calibration of dots or whatever to tell you, look at Tyrone Mings’ knee, Firmino is onside, right.
“So you look at the yellow line and there’s a black line there as well. So they’ve done that there - that tells you that he was onside.
“So they change it round now to make it that Firmino is the black line and Tyrone Mings is the yellow line, as you can see now.”
Kamara even held up a piece of paper to the screen to prove that the VAR lines drawn weren't straight.
“But the line that comes up towards Firmino isn’t straight - that’s not a straight line, that’s an angled line," he continued.
“I put a piece of paper to it this morning haven’t I and I showed you - that is not a straight line.
“Get your rulers out, get your spirit level out. That red line is not a straight line.
“Now, somebody has decided to do that and I think they should be outed because that is not offside for me.
“That’s why it’s not a straight line, look at that paper, look how angled it is, that’s not a straight line.”
Liverpool's late win keeps them six points clear at the top of the Premier League table ahead of a meeting with second-place Manchester City next Sunday.
