
# Maryam Nawaz cannot go abroad even after getting bail

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:05:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/517180-Maryam-Nawaz-cannot-go-abroad-even-after-getting-bail)

LAHORE (Dunya News) - Vice President of Pakistan Muslim League Nawaz (PML-N) Maryam Nawaz may not fly abroad even after her release on bail in Chaudhary Sugar Mills Case.
The daughter of former premier Nawaz Sharif got bail by the Lahore High Court on Monday but was asked to surrender her passport to the court.
A two-member bench headed by Justice Ali Baqar Najafi announced the verdict – reserved on October 31 – on Maryam Nawaz’s bail plea. The bail has been granted against two surety bonds worth 10 million apiece.

        
          READ MORE: Maryam Nawaz gets bail in Chaudhry Sugar Mills case
        
      
The court order consisting of 24 pages also directed the PML-N leader to deposit 70 million separately with the court.
The detailed verdict stated that it has been agreed that Maryam Nawaz being a woman must be given bail as she neither remained absconder nor did she created hurdles in interrogation.
The verdict further stated that corruption prevails in the country that needed to be controlled with firm hands. It added that the arrest of a person cannot be used as indictment.
On August 8, NAB team had detained Maryam Nawaz outside the Kot Lakhpat Jail in Lahore for skipping appearance in Chaudhry Sugar Mills due to meeting with her father Nawaz Sharif.
Maryam Nawaz was unable to provide the required details of foreign investment in sugar mills while she was also failed to satisfy the bureau regarding source of income for purchasing the shares. NAB had also claimed that three foreigners had transferred 11000 shares worth millions of rupees on Maryam Nawaz’s name.
