
# Michelle quashes pressure with positive attitude

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:17:30+00:00**

Author: **Mario Bautista**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/entertainment/showbiz/michelle-quashes-pressure-positive-attitude)

“May pressure, but I think positively and I promise to do my very best to bring home the crown,” she says at the presscon of her very first movie, “Cara X Jagger”. “I do believe in myself. I didn’t grow up dreaming of being a beauty queen, but a lot of people are always telling me I have all the qualifications to be one. Now, I’m really preparing hard for it. Like for their fast track events, I’m positive I’d do well in the sports challenge since I’ve always been into sports.”
What’s the advice that her mom gave her?  “We’re close and we talk about a lot of things but lagi niyang ini-inject 'yung preparations for Miss World. She says the best thing is just be yourself and don’t try to be the next Melanie or Winwyn. Just be Michelle Dee, embrace everything about yourself, no pretensions.”
She’ll fly to London on November 19 but the pageant’s coronation night will be on December 14 yet. “Marami pa kasing ibang activities before the pageant proper. We’re now choosing kung ano 'yung national costume that I’ll wear which will best represent our beautiful country.”
The Miss World pageant is known for its “beauty with a purpose advocacies” in helping other people. What are her advocacies? “Ever since, I’ve been involved in mental health and AIDS awareness. I really feel people should be mentally healthy in this day and age na maraming stressful things around us. Also, HIV is spreading among the youth so they should be aware of its dangers.”
If ever she’d win, then she and her mom Melanie will be considered as the first mother and daughter to become international beauty pageant winners. Meantime,  how is it working with Ruru Madrid and Jasmine Curtis in “Cara X Jagger” that opens in theaters this Wednesday?
“We had fun. They’re both easy to work with, including our very young director, Ice Idanan. Most of my scenes are with Ruru kasi best friends kami rito who are both into motorcycles. Nag-enjoy ako. It’s a beautiful love story. This is actually the first of two films I’ve done. The other one is ‘GLU, Go La Union’, a barkada movie which is slated for release next year na.”
