
# Tourist lost at sea for three days after her dinghy blown 100 miles off course

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:23:44+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/tourist-lost-sea-three-days-20805377)

A woman was stuck at sea for three days after her dinghy was blown off course while returning to her yacht.
The 45-year-old tourist had taken the rubber boat to the Greek island of Folegandros, where she went shopping.
The New Zealander was on her way back to her British husband's yacht when she went missing on Friday.
She was swept across the Aegean Sea and was eventually rescued 50 miles north of Crete yesterday.
A coastguard patrol boat spotted her vessel and found the woman exhausted and dehydrated, reports say.
 
Six navy vessels and a helicopter were involved in the search, according to The Sun.
It is believed efforts were underway last night to reunite the tourist with her British husband, who was on their yacht when she went missing.
She rang him just before she set off from Folegandros on her return trip.
The woman is reportedly an experienced seafarer who has taken part in major sailing competitions.
It comes weeks after Kay Longstaff plunged into the Adriatic and was rescued after treading water for 10 hours.
Ms Longstaff said she fell from a cruise ship and sang to keep herself warm in the cold.
However, investigators think she 'jumped', with passengers on the Norwegian Star claiming Ms Longstaff and her boyfriend had a drunken row before she plunged from the seventh deck.
Investigators believe she jumped off the ship 'voluntarily' – and in a ‘determined’ fashion.
The 46-year-old will not have to contribute to the cost of her rescue, thought to run into several hundred thousand pounds.
