
# The Best Secret Santa Gifts For Every Budget

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jordi Lippe-McGraw**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jordilippemcgraw/2019/11/01/the-best-secret-santa-gifts-for-every-budget/)

It's that time of year when you need to figure out gifts for everyone on your list. For many working in an office, that means a Secret Santa exchange. It’s hard enough to figure out what to give a coworker you’ve never actually spoken to—let alone coming up with a present that won’t have you overspend (or offend). Luckily, there are plenty of cool, affordable gifts that will suit anyone’s personality and style. Here are some of the best Secret Santa gift ideas for every budget.
This portable power bank from Xoopar is the sleekest, slimmest charger with a stylish brushed aluminum body. Even though it's only the size of a credit card, it can add 50% to a smartphone battery life. It's the perfect gift for road warriors.

        SHOP NOW
      
Just because your Secret Santa gift didn’t cost much doesn’t mean it can’t look expensive. The modern gold design on the stemless glasses creates an elegant look that will help to elevate the overall vibe of the night, but still won’t force you to withdraw from your 401(k).

        SHOP NOW
      
The most imaginative desk toy since the Rubik's cube, Speks is designed to help adults mindfully unwind throughout the day and bring a new dimension of creativity to work spaces nationwide. Choose from the blocks, magnetic balls, and more. And happy fidgeting.

        SHOP NOW
      
Finding a gift that’s sophisticated, stylish and inexpensive can be tough. This puzzle of the New York Times’ front page accomplishes just that. It’s something anyone can have on their coffee table to keep company entertained.

        SHOP NOW
      
The perfect present for anyone celebrating the holidays, this Le Creuset sealer keeps champagne fresh and bubbly for days so you can extend the life of your favorite bottle. This sleek and sturdy piece is a must-have for the holidays—or any day someone feels like raising a glass. And it won’t break the bank.

        SHOP NOW
      
Since you don’t always know the style of your Secret Santa, it can be hard to choose a gift that would feature any design. Instead, stick to something practical like packing cubes that anyone would appreciate. These water-resistant pouches come in a set of five, so you can mix and match, depending on your needs, and are available in a variety of colors. The pouches fit perfectly into your luggage and drawers to easily keep your things organized when you’re on the go.

        SHOP NOW
      
You can never go wrong with candles. The ten-piece set showcases Nest’s bestselling fragrances, which is great for gifting because it lets your Secret Santa sample many different scents to find which they like the most.

        SHOP NOW
      
Giving someone a lunchbox might seem somewhat juvenile, but this seven-piece set from Prepd is everything a lunch packer needs for work. Plus, it’s in a beautifully designed case made from bamboo, plastic and cotton.

        SHOP NOW
      
You can’t go wrong with something sweet during the holiday season. Vermont-based Runamok Maple is the maker of infused, smoked and barrel-aged maple syrups that Oprah loves. The gift boxes include three versions, including Bourbon Barrel-Aged, Hibiscus Flower-infused and Cinnamon and Vanilla-infused.

        SHOP NOW
      
