
# Worries over future of West Dunbartonshire housing industry

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:53:54+00:00**

Author: **Lorraine Weir**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/worries-over-future-west-dunbartonshire-20830943)

Calls have been made to make sure the housing industry in West Dunbartonshire doesn’t grind to a halt once ambitious targets are achieved.
Dumbarton councillor David McBride last week called on West Dunbartonshire Council to put pressure on the Scottish Government.
The Labour member wants guarantees that there will be continued investment in social housing after reaching their own target.
The Scottish Government said in 2016 they would deliver 50,000 affordable homes over five years.

        Man left confused after waking up in strange Balloch house with knife in bag
      
Councillor McBride said: “Because of the way the Scottish Government’s funding works, there’s nothing in place beyond that at the moment.
“We know that there’s a need there. We are making good progress at every level but we need to continue with that.”
Under the previous Labour administration, Councillor McBride was part of, a target was set to build 1000 homes across the region including both council and housing association properties before 2021.
Councillor McBride last week labelled the scheme “ambitious but achieveable” and told how he was alerted to the potential dangers of failing to continue to invest in housebuilding after a bold statement from a national organisation.
The Chartered Institute of Housing (CIH) published the 2019 UK Housing Review autumn briefing paper which highlighted progress towards meeting the Scottish Government’s target.
In response to the findings, Callum Chomczuk, Director of CIH Scotland said: “While we are pleased that the Scottish Government’s commitment to affordable housing supply is providing good quality homes across the whole of Scotland, we have deep concerns about future funding arrangements.
“The 50,000 homes target represented a significant increase in funding for new homes and as we can see from the figures, it has taken the sector several years to build up the capacity to deliver homes in the volume that we need.
“We have had no indication of what funding levels will be after next year and there’s a danger that social landlords will simply have to stop building. Skilled staff will leave the sector and we will end up back where we started.
“The 50,000 homes target is just beginning to make up for loss of affordable homes through right-to-buy and planned demolitions of old stock that was no longer fit-for-purpose.
“If we are serious about increasing affordable housing in Scotland, to end homelessness, improve health and well-being and reduce poverty and inequality, we need a long-term plan.”
 
Councillor McBride echoed the comments and told how he worries about the impact failure to invest will have on the workforce.
He said: “When problems start arising, people start leaving the industry and that’s when you end up with a skills shortage. 1000 homes in five years is a big achievement. Let’s keep that going.”
The councillor spoke about his concerns at last week’s full council meeting and urged members to support his plea.
Both the leader of the council and the council’s housing convener plan to meet with the local government, housing and planning minister to ensure there is a long-term plan for housing delivery and to set funding needed to build more new social housing in the area now and after 2022.
For more local news, click here
