
# 1MDB-Tanore Trial: In PSI we trust

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Aziz**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/1mdbtanore-trial-psi-we-trust)

IN PSI we trust, could have been Datuk Shahrol Azral Ibrahim Halmi’s motto when dealing with the Saudi Arabian company, such was his unflinching belief in its goodwill.
Everything that PetroSaudi International Ltd said, the former 1Malaysia Development Bhd (1MDB) CEO was prepared to take at face value and in good faith, even though the state-owned strategic company was about to invest a whopping US$1 billion into a joint venture (JV) with the unknown Saudi entity.
At the 1MDB-Tanore trial of former prime minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak last week, Shahrol maintained that much of his action — or inaction as it transpired — stemmed from his belief that the collaboration was sanctioned by Najib and King Abdullah Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, as informed by businessman Low Taek Jho.
“[Low presented] that this was truly a G2G (government-to-government) transaction that Najib wanted to happen. It was of paramount importance for us to proceed,” said Shahrol.
“I would go even further to say that the JV was created by this personal relationship [between Najib and King Abdullah],” he said, attributing the information to Low, who is now in hiding.
In Shahrol’s mind, “there would be no undercutting, misrepresentation” in any G2G initiative.

        No due diligence conducted prior to investing US$1 billion
      
Astoundingly, such was his trust that 1MDB’s management did not insist on a due diligence of PSI, or the US$2 billion assets that it intended to inject into the JV. Instead, 1MDB satisfied itself with what Shahrol described as an “oral due diligence” — “the first time in history”, lead defence counsel Tan Sri Muhammad Shafee Abdullah observed. Little wonder then that it did not attempt to present the findings to 1MDB’s board of directors.
Subsequently, it was reported that the “injected” assets — valued within weeks of the parties’ negotiations at US$3 billion to US$4 billion by Edward L Morse, a valuer appointed by PSI — did not belong to PSI after all.
Shahrol indicated that in 2009, he considered PSI’s offer to inject oil and gas (O&G) assets into the JV to match 1MDB’s cash investment as a capital idea.
“Having those assets actually would be more valuable than cash, because in 2009 and 2010, oil prices were hitting US$100/bbl, so it would make more sense to have O&G assets than cash at the time.
“This is subjective, but at the time it was a G2G [initiative]. My takeaway … was that this looked like a good deal,” Shahrol said.
But not only did the ex-CEO not question PSI’s valuation of the assets to be injected — his fellow board members, Tan Sri Azlan Zainol and Tan Sri Bakke Salleh, suggested that PSI match 1MDB’s cash with cash instead — he also did not verify what the “prized assets” were that the JV hoped to acquire.
In fact, Shahrol said he was indifferent to the prized assets. “When I saw the letter [by PSI proposing the JV], I thought this was something that had been discussed by the leaders of the two countries … My focus was primarily on getting this done for the PM. I was not excited, I was indifferent on these prized assets.”
1MDB director Tan Sri Lodin Wok Kamaruddin’s suggestion that 1MDB ought to be the one responsible for valuing the assets considering its exposure was similarly ignored.
“My state of mind at the time was that PSI was a trustworthy partner, and when they represent[ed] and warrant[ed] the value of the assets, that was good enough for us (1MDB) to proceed,” said Shahrol.
“We relied heavily on information from PSI,” Shahrol conceded, adding that 1MDB did “no verification” of PSI’s purported claims of G2G initiatives in Argentina and Turkmenistan.
Ultimately, 1MDB settled for a certain “information pack” from PSI, Shahrol said, after it failed to secure a company profile from PSI.

        King Abdullah did not materialise
      
Part of the reason valuations or due diligence were not done, according to Shahrol, was the tight deadline as the so-called G2G deal was signed in exactly one month at the end of September 2009.
The rush to complete, Shahrol said, was because the JV agreement was to be signed by Najib and a representative of the Saudi government — either King Abdullah or his son Prince Turki bin Abdullah Al Saud — during a visit to Malaysia on Sept 28, 2009, according to 1MDB executive director Casey Tang.
However, the grand signing ceremony did not materialise. But on the stated day, Low brought the document to Shahrol’s office for his signature, which he duly signed — even though the Saudi JV party in the agreement was not PSI, but PetroSaudi Holdings (Cayman) Ltd.
Shahrol did not see fit to check with 1MDB’s lawyers, Wong & Partners, but duly inked the agreement because he had clarified the matter with Tang, who assured him the PSI unit was a legitimate unit and that it was okay to sign the agreement.
Tang, who along with Shahrol had been recommended to 1MDB by Low, has also gone into hiding.
