
# Time Out: GAA on this day, quick quiz & sporting birthdays

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Padraig O Meiscill**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/2019/11/04/news/time-out-gaa-on-this-day-quick-quiz-sporting-birthdays-1755334/)

DINNY Cahill's 200-mile treks to Belfast are set to resume after his decision to accept the Antrim senior hurling manager's position for a second time.
The Tipperary native previously managed the Saffrons from 2002 to 2005 and fills the post that was vacated by Terence McNaughton and Dominic McKinley in the summer.
“I believe that I now have a chance to address what feels like unfinished business,” said Cahill after accepting the role.
“When I first went up to Antrim, I had just finished coaching Tipperary minors and we were lucky enough to achieve All-Ireland success at that time. I was relatively inexperienced then as far as senior inter-county management was concerned.
“Through my previous involvement with Antrim and, more recently, with Portumna and Graigue-Ballycallan, I have gained extensive experience to assist me in this new challenge.
“With the right commitment from players, clubs and supporters in Antrim, we can build a more consistent and successful future for the county.''
ON THIS DAY IN SPORT
1989: David O'Leary's 622nd game for Arsenal, a club record, was marred by a mass brawl with opponents Norwich at Highbury. Arsenal were awarded a stoppage-time penalty and won 4-3.
1991: England midfielder Bryan Robson announced his international retirement after being left out of the squad for a game against Poland. He won 90 caps for his country.
2002: England's Luke Donald claimed his first win on the USPGA Tour when rain washed out the final round of the Southern Farm Bureau Classic in Mississippi, reducing the tournament to 54 holes.
2007: Joe Calzaghe won his world super-middleweight title unification fight against Denmark's Mikkel Kessler with a unanimous decision victory.
2008: The Argentinian Football Association appointed Diego Maradona as the new head coach of the national team.
2015: British racing driver Susie Wolff announced that she would retire from motor sport at the end of the season, having given up hope of competing in Formula One.
2016: FIFA launched disciplinary proceedings against the Football Association of Ireland after the Republic of Ireland national team wore shirts bearing a poppy symbol, representing the 100th anniversary of the Easter Rising, for a friendly against Switzerland.
2017: Celtic set a new record for the longest unbeaten run in domestic competition by a British top-flight team, extending their sequence to 63 games by beating St Johnstone 4-0.
SPORT BIRTHDAYS
Rod Marsh (cricket) - former Australia wicketkeeper, born 1947.
Nigel Worthington (soccer) - former Northern Ireland defender and manager, born 1961.
Gary Havelock (speedway) - 1992 world champion, born 1968.
Luis Figo (soccer) - former Inter Milan, Barcelona, Real Madrid and Portugal winger, born 1972.
Mario Melchiot (soccer) - former Wigan, Birmingham, Chelsea and Holland defender, born 1976.
Devin Hester (American football) - former Seattle Seahawks wide receiver who holds the NFL record for the most returning touchdowns, born 1982.
Chris Martin (soccer) - Derby striker and Scotland international, born 1988.
QUICK QUIZ
1. How many times have Cuala (Dublin) won the Leinster Club SHC?
2. Which country recently beat the Australian rugby league team for the first time?
3. With which club has Mickey Linden won eight Down SFC titles?
4. Who are the reigning Super Bowl champions?
5. How many Grand Nationals did AP McCoy win?
(See answers below)
SPORT ON TV
Monday, November 4
CRICKET: T20, New Zealand v England - Sky Sports Main Event, Sky Sports Cricket 0030 (Tue).
SOCCER: Championship, Stoke v West Brom - Sky Sports Main Event, Sky Sports Football 1930.
SNOOKER: Champion of Champions - ITV 4 1245 & 1845.
GRIDIRON: NFL, New York Giants v Dallas Cowboys - Sky Sports Action 0100 (Tue).
QUIZ ANSWERS
1. Twice (2017 & '18); 2. Tonga; 3. Mayobridge; 4. New England Patriots; 5. One
