
# How To Avoid The Worst Consumer Scams

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **John F. Wasik**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/johnwasik/2019/11/03/how-to-avoid-the-worst-consumer-scams/)

I hate getting scammed, especially when I don't think I'm getting scammed.Since I've been writing about fraud for decades, it burns my toast when I don't see a swindle coming. Case in point: My wife and I recently got burned by a "craftsman" offering to do home improvements.
We needed a few simple things done: Fix and paint a rotting fence and install some trim in a bedroom. We figured he'd been in and out in a week or so.
These minor projects lasted most of the summer. Since he was a neighbor and always bemoaning his financial situation — "I'm going to lose my home" — we cut him some slack when we should have cut him loose. He would do 10 minutes worth of shoddy work, then turn up a week later. Seemingly manageable jobs were being billed by the hour.
I know. We probably should have turned off our sympathy meter and hired a licensed contractor. We were hoodwinked and should've known better. We're weren't alone, if that's any consolation, according to the Consumer Federation of America (CFA), which recently compiled its top-10 consumer scam list. 
The CFA surveyed leading consumer protection agency and scammed more than 1 million complaints. Here's what they found:
The most basic defense is to get these services in writing, use a credit card and don't sign up for something that's too good to be true. As with our faux home contractor, you can pay a fortune and not get the service you need.
