
# ‘Slow inflation, catch-up spending to buoy growth’

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:10:31+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/05/slow-inflation-catch-up-spending-to-buoy-growth/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
By Cai U. Ordinario & Bernadette D. Nicolas  
SLOW inflation and a rebound in government spending will help secure the low-end of the government’s growth targets for the year, according to a local think tank.
And, in the view of Finance Secretary Carlos G. Dominguez III, the country’s third quarter economic growth would “definitely” be better than the last two quarters of the year.
In its latest Market Call report, First Metro Investment Corp. (FMIC)-University of Asia and the Pacific (UA&P) Capital Market Research said GDP growth could average 6 percent to 6.5 percent this year, within the government’s 6-percent to 7-percent target.The think tank said September inflation of 0.9 percent is the lowest in 40 months while government spending grew 8.8 percent in August.
“Positive economic data point to a rebound in H2, bolstering our view that full-year GDP expansion will hover between 6-6.5 percent,” the think tank said.
“We expect a rebound in GDP starting [in the third quarter] as ever lower inflation and high employment rates combine to boost consumer spending, while NG [national government] continues to ramp up infrastructure expenditures in [the second half of the year],” it added.
From Bangkok for the 35th Asean Summit, Dominguez still expressed optimism the country can achieve at least the lower end of the government’s full-year GDP growth target of 6 percent to 7 percent.
Sought for comment on some analysts’ predictions on the country’s economic growth for the third quarter, Dominguez said: “Definitely, definitely.  That is going to happen because our spending did ramp up in the last third quarter. We haven’t caught up yet, I think we are still 5 percent short, but we are getting there.”
With this, Dominguez said he sees the country’s economic growth for the year reaching at least the lower end of the government’s target considering that there was a delay in the budget passage and the election ban.
The local think tank FMIC-UA&P Capital Market Research expects third-quarter GDP growth to reach 6 percent and even faster in the last quarter of the year on the back of strong domestic demand. This will be fueled by low inflation, employment gains, and strong consumer spending.
For his part, Dominguez said, “We are certainly in a very good position to hit the lower end of the target of 6 percent  to 7 percent this year. Lower end because because unfortunately we have a five-month delay in the approval of the budget and also we had a problem of the law that that does not allow us during election period to start infrastructure projects. That resulted in an underspending of close to P1 billion a day in the Philippines and definitely the investment in our infrastructure suffered because of that,” he said.
National government spending grew 39 percent year-on-year to P415 billion in September as disbursements posted double-digit growth.
This brought the January-to-September period spending to P2.627 billion in 2019, a 5.5-percent growth from P2.49 billion. However, this is still 2.1 percent below target for the period.
Data showed the growth of government disbursements this September was mainly driven by an upsurge in disbursements in Capital Outlays, particularly in Infrastructure/Other CO spending — reaching P100.3 billion.
The Department of Budget and Man-agement (DBM) said the 53.9-percent growth in Capital Outlay is the fastest for the year and was mainly due to the completion of Department of Public Works and Highways projects.
The country’s first and second quarter GDP growth were posted at a slower pace of 5.6 percent and 5.5 percent, respectively. Thus, the economy needed to grow 6.4 percent in the second half to reach the lower end of the full-year growth target this year.
Dominguez expects that last year’s delay in the budget passage would not happen again this time around.
The Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) is set to announce the country’s inflation figures today, November 5, and the third quarter GDP on Thursday.
FMIC-UA&P Capital Market Research, meanwhile, said inflation will likely continue to be moderate through 2020 as the seasonally adjusted annualized rate of inflation already fell to zero percent in September.
Low inflation, the think tank said, is expected to again register a growth of 0.9 percent in October. This will contribute to an average of 1.6 percent in the last quarter of the year.
Rice prices are expected to be muted given that rice inventory in August increased 40.3 percent year-on-year. This does not yet include the last- quarter harvest which is usually the largest for the year.
“Downward adjustments to full-year inflation projections keep resurfacing, but we expect it not to exceed 2.5 percent,” FMIC-UA&P Capital Market Research said.
“Crude oil prices have little upside despite Opec production cuts still intact as US shale oil and other cash-starved Opec and non-Opec countries seek to raise output in the midst of a global economic slowdown,” it added.
Apart from low inflation, the think tank said national government spending is expected to increase on the back of infrastructure and capital outlays programmed for the third and fourth quarters of the year.
It said the national government has already been able to increase spending by 73.1 percent month on month in July, indicating that the trend will continue, adding that “NG’s catch-up plan will likely gain traction in [the second half of the year].”
FMIC-UA&P Capital Market Research said other factors include expectations of stable crude oil prices. In terms of exports, the think tank said, the country posted positive growth while imports contracted. This will not have a dampening effect on GDP, especially in the second half of the year.
The think tank also still sees room for the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) to cut interest rates by another 25 basis points in the last quarter.
“Broad Money (M2) has grown at a slower pace than GDP growth in H1 and this has likely continued in Q3. With a current account deficit and real-estate loans direct to users rising, banks have felt a liquidity squeeze,” it said.
However, it thinks the peso remains overvalued and indications point toward depreciation in the coming months.
The month-end actual peso-dollar exchange rate in September was above the 30-day moving average (MA) in most days, it noted. The weakness of the peso was mainly driven by the country’s trade deficit which was valued at $24.7 billion in the January-to-August period, albeit 8 percent lower than the $26.85 billion posted in 2018.
“We maintain our view that the lingering trade deficit and the country’s need to increase foreign reserves will continue to put downward pressure on the peso,” the think tank said.
