
# Robinhood users are gravitating towards loss-making companies

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:06:38+00:00**

Author: **Yaron Yitzhak**

Original: [The Next Web](https://thenextweb.com/insider/2019/11/07/robinhood-users-are-gravitating-towards-loss-making-companies/?utm_campaign=tweet6)


        Can Robinhood users actually call themselves Robinhood’s, or is it just another tool for the rich to rob the average Joe? In this 
        
          series
        
         we’re diving deep into Robinhood’s public data, to uncover insights on its users’ activity. Welcome to part 1, where we give a general intro into the series, and touch the surface of the data.
      
The Robinhood app has experienced a meteoric rise since 2013. Thanks to its revolutionary zero-fee trading model and easy-to-use interface, it’s accumulated over 4 million US users, and forced the whole brokerage industry to rethink its business model. Notably, US bank Charles Schwab recently announced it would eliminate commissions for online trading as well, making the company’s arm mostly reliant on interest gained from customers’ uninvested money.
Making trading accessible to and alluring for the masses — including those with smaller pockets — and for the digital-native generation, sounds like a noble cause. The question however is, as always with trading and investing, how sensible are the actual trading and investment decisions being made?
In Robinhood’s case, that question is even more pertinent and perhaps should even be rephrased to ‘Can Robinhood users make good trading decisions?’, as about half of the platform’s revenue comes from the selling of users’ order details to other financial institutions like high frequency trading firms. Do I smell a conflict of interest here?
To figure this out, luckily, there’s loads of data, updated daily, about Robinhood users’ activity, specifically how many Robinhood users hold a particular stock over time. While the public data doesn’t contain total share buying volumes, it still provides us with a wealth of information, moreover when combined with other publicly available data about these publicly listed companies.
So, let’s dive into some of the insights we could extract from this. Also, be sure to check our special Robinhood page for all articles in this series.
The first thing we’re going to look at is the so called Robinhood Leaderboard, the publicly listed companies with the highest number of Robinhood users as shareholders, and compare that with the popularity of stocks in general.
Robinhood users’ preferences clearly deviate from the broader market.

        Stay tuned for part 2 of our Robinhood series. Next week we’ll combine Robinhood’s data with other public sources to dive deeper into the level of risk RH users are taking, specifically how well (or badly) diversified their portfolios apparently are.
      
