
# Police hunt 4 grinning men seen carrying unconscious woman into Bangkok condo (Video)

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:21:09+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Bangkok**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/bangkok/news/police-hunt-4-grinning-men-seen-carrying-unconscious-woman-into-bangkok-condo/)

One of four men seen in chilling security camera footage carrying an unconscious 18-year-old woman into her Bangkok condominium and possibly raping her was detained by police today. 
The arrest came after Thai police issued warrants for the four young men seen carrying the accuser to her residence in Bangkok’s Din Daeng district and potentially assault her in footage hauntingly familiar to another high-profile, recent case of a woman drugged and abused.

        In final hours, Bangkok model left trail of clues (Interactive Timeline)
      
The incident occurred early Wednesday morning.
The girlfriend of the woman’s brother told police this morning that the woman was drinking with friends at a bar on the night in question before getting on the phone with one of the men that appears in the CCTV footage.
The source, who also remained unidentified, said the man then picked up the alleged victim to go drink some more at another bar near the Victory Monument. She believes the man was hitting on her. 
Just before 3am – as indicated in the CCTV – the men took the accuser to an apartment in Din Daeng. 
Calls to the Din Daeng Police Station did not go through Friday afternoon, and the investigator in charge of the case could not be reached as of publication time.
Disturbing footage from her condo shows two men supporting the woman into the apartment as two more trail behind. All appear to be grinning. The woman, barely conscious, hangs her head low and needs help walking. 
