
# Google to Buy Fitbit for $2.1 Billion

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:58:46+00:00**

Author: **Jordan Smith**

Original: [Runner&#39;s World](https://www.runnersworld.com/news/a29667063/google-buys-fitbit/)

Today, Google announced it will buy Fitbit, using the sale to expand their own fitness tracking platform. The company will purchase the wearable brand for $2.1 billion, according to a press release from Fitbit.
“Google aspires to create tools that help people enhance their knowledge, success, health and happiness. This goal is closely aligned with Fitbit’s long-time focus on wellness and helping people live healthier, more active lives,” Google senior vice president (devices and services), Rick Osterloh, said in a company announcement.
Google will take this as an opportunity to debut Made by Google wearable devices and update Wear OS, Google’s fitness tracking software, which will help you better track your runs and health data.
The deal is expected to close in 2020, according to Fitbit’s news release.

        [Build your personalized and adaptive
        
          
             training plan for FREE with Runcoach.]
          
        
      
“Google is an ideal partner to advance our mission,” James Park, co-founder and CEO of Fitbit said in a statement. “With Google’s resources and global platform, Fitbit will be able to accelerate innovation in the wearables category, scale faster, and make health even more accessible to everyone. I could not be more excited for what lies ahead.”
Google also promised that it won’t use sell your health and fitness data, or use it for ads.
According to Gizmodo, since Google has just entered into an agreement to buy Fitbit, information about Google-made wearables likely won’t come out until their annual developer conference, which is typically held in the spring.
