
# Tributes paid to student with 'heart of gold' found dead at university halls

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:46:19+00:00**

Author: **Jon Macpherson**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/tributes-paid-student-heart-gold-20791009)

Tributes have been paid to a student 'with a heart of gold' who was found dead in her bedroom at university halls.
Amelia Ashworth, known as Millie, suffered a medical episode at Edge Hill University in Lancashire on Wednesday and sadly died soon after.
The 19-year-old was a former pupil at Mount Carmel in Accrington and left the school in the summer of 2016 to study a university course at Edgehill.
She has been described in poignant tributes as "one of the kindest girls in the whole world".
Counselling is being offered to students and staff at the university after the tragic death, Lancashire Live reports.
An Edge Hill University spokesperson said : “We can confirm that sadly a female student passed away in residential halls on campus (on 30 October).
“Our thoughts and sympathies are with her family, her friends and fellow students during this difficult time.
“We are providing support, including counselling services, to students and staff.”
 
In a statement, Mount Carmel said: “It is with great sadness and shock that we mourn the sudden and unexpected death of a dearly loved ex-pupil, Amelia (Millie) Ashworth RIP.
“Millie left Mount Carmel in the summer of 2016 and she had just begun a university course at Edgehill.
“We have placed photographs and a candle in the school chapel so staff and pupils can spend quiet moments in reflection.
"Prayers were also said for Millie during Mass today (Friday).
“Our thoughts are obviously with Millie's family and friends at this extremely sad time.”
Friends have also posted tributes to Millie on the school's Facebook page.
Libby Shepherd said: “Love you Millie. One of the kindest girls in the whole world with a heart of gold. Sending so much love to your family.”
Paula Townley wrote: “Such a beautiful girl and loved by so many. You will be missed greatly by everyone that knew you. RIP Millie.”
Tracie Marshall said: “Only had the pleasure of meeting Millie a couple of times so I'm grateful of that. Such a sad loss of a lovely young lady.
"My thoughts go out to her family and friends.”
Stacy Walsh added: “Millie was an amazing young lady she will be missed.”
The North West Ambulance service were called out to the university in Ormskirk at around 6pm following reports that a student was unwell.
Lancashire Police say that the death is being treated as non-suspicious.
A spokesperson said: “We were called at 18.12pm on October 30, to reports of a sudden death an address in Ormskirk.
“Officers attended and sadly found the body of a woman inside the property.
“The woman’s death is not being treated as suspicious and a file will be passed to the coroner.
“Our thoughts are with the woman’s family at this incredibly difficult time.”
