
# Aston Villa have just been nominated for this award - but they won't want to win it!

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:33:00+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, Ben Husband, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/ben-husband/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-latest-news-trophy-16351146)

For one night back in May, Birmingham was claret and blue.
Or at least the city's library was.
To celebrate Aston Villa's promotion to the Premier League, the Birmingham Library was lit up in the famous colours of Dean Smith's side.
Villa didn't hold a parade after beating Derby County but on the evening of the brilliant Wembley win, the city centre library said they would light up the Birmingham night sky and the club's social media team posted an image to pay tribute to that.
But some eagle eyed observers noticed something a little peculiar about the image posted.
In the bottom left of the image is a Christmas tree, Birmingham is either six months out of the loop or someone may have used the wrong picture.
At the time there was some hilarious feedback to the post.
@wozaboxa: Nice of the library to stick out the Christmas trees early too!
@simonstewart75: Christmas trees?
@nocky1982: Just out of interest, why is there a Christmas Tree?
@astonjo7: Merry Christmas to you all!
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Now, it’s been nominated for the ‘Didn’t Happen of the Year Awards 2019’.
The popular Twitter account is holding an online competition to find the best ‘didn’t happen’ social media post of the year.
Villa's library Christmas tree is among the first four confirmed entries in a list which also includes Wayne Hennessey's 'salute' explanation.
The remaining 28 entrants will be announced over the next seven weeks before a winner is crowned on December 29.
The first reply to the post came from Villa fan Jay Gallagher who said: "Come on @AVFCOfficial need this silverware."
Villa themselves, however, may well disagree!
