
# Ryan Lowe issues challenge to Plymouth Argyle goalscoring prospect Klaidi Lolos

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:55:51+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/ryan-lowe-issues-challenge-plymouth-3512441)

Ryan Lowe wants to see Plymouth Argyle prospect Klaidi Lolos get among the goals during his loan spell at Southern League Premier club Dorchester Town.
Another of the Pilgrims’ young strikers, Luke Jephcott, has been doing that for Paul Wotton’s Truro City.
Jephcott has netted regularly for Truro after signing for them on loan at the start of the season and that has caught the eye of Lowe.
The Argyle manager now hopes to see Lolos make a similar sort of impact at Dorchester, who are in the same division as Truro.
Lolos, 19, has made one start and five substitute appearances for Argyle this season as a number of the club’s other strikers have been injured.
Now, with a near fully fit squad at his disposal, Lowe was keen for Lolos to go out on loan.
The Pilgrims’ first-year professional made his debut for Dorchester in their 2-1 home league defeat by Harrow Borough last weekend.
Lowe said: “We have got an abundance of forwards now. Dom (Telford) is back, Tayls (Ryan Taylor), Joel (Grant), Byron (Moore), Zak Rudden and Billy Clarke. There is six there.
“Klaidi had a bit of a stiff back for about 10 days, to be fair. We felt it would do him good to go and get some games and score some goals, like Luke Jephcott has done.
“Luke has been fantastic. His attitude has been second to none. He has gone away and everything I asked him to do, he has done.
“He is ticking every box for us, so we will address that in January.”
Jephcott and Lolos are on loan to Truro and Dorchester respectively until January, when their situations will be reassessed.
Lowe has also loaned out 18-year-old central defender Mike Peck to Dorchester, in his case on a 28-day basis, and he played the whole of the game against Harrow.
Peck has not played for the Argyle first team yet, but he has featured regularly for them in the Central League and Premier League Under-23 Cup.
Lowe said: “We kept Pecky around to watch how we play from the back. He has been with us for three, four months playing in games up at the training ground.
“He knows how we play, stepping in when you need to step in, so now we have sent him out on loan.
“It’s only for a month really to see if he can produce that in a competitive environment.
“So they are the reasons for letting them two go, and it’s important I think. They need some game-time.”
Dorchester do not have a match this weekend and are not in action until next Saturday when they play Walton Casuals in the Southern League Premier.
That means Lolos and Peck are available for Argyle’s second group game in the Premier League Cup.

        Keep an eye out on our social media pages for more Argyle news - we are on Twitter  @HeraldPAFC  and on Facebook Plymouth Live - Argyle  
      

        You can follow Argyle reporter Chris Errington on Twitter @ChrisErrington1 and on Facebook HeraldChris
      

        Plymouth Live has launched a WhatsApp service dedicated to keeping you up to date with the latest Argyle news.  Click here to join  and follow the instructions on your phone.
      

        Your number will not be shared with anyone else in the group. If you want more information on signing up, or if this link does not work  click here.
      

         
      
The Pilgrims will play Everton at Southport FC on Sunday (2pm), following their 1-1 draw at home to Watford at the start of October.
Lowe and his backroom staff will stay up in the north-west of England after the FA Cup first round tie at Bolton Wanderers on Saturday to watch the Premier League Cup clash the next afternoon.
“There will be a few first team players playing in it,” said Lowe, about the clash against the defending Premier League Cup holders.
“All the staff will be there, I’m looking forward to it. It’s another test for the youngsters to pit their wits against Everton’s under-23s.”
