
# Blizzard announces Overwatch 2

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Aodhan Gregory, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aodhan-gregory/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/blizzcon-overwatch-2-video-game-20796244)

Blizzard has announced Overwatch 2, the sequel to its popular team shooter Overwatch, onstage at Blizzcon 2019. The long-rumoured game, which was unveiled by the series’ creative director Jeff Kaplan, looks to bring players into the story of Overwatch as the world’s heroes stand together against a global Null Sector attack and build upon the original game’s foundation of PvP competition. In the new cinematic trailer, Winston, Mei and Tracer reunite alongside a new hero, Echo, to save Paris from a giant omnic.
Unlike the original, which was primarily a PvP multiplayer experience, the sequel will also include more cooperative PvE content that will see players face off against a multitude of computer enemies in both story levels and more replayable hero missions. The new game will maintain all of the original heroes, maps, and modes, and will also feature a new 6v6 PvP mode called Push, in which two teams will race to make a robot push the map's objective to their opponent's. It will be available in Casual and Competitive modes, and will also be played in the Overwatch League.
 
Alongside a brand-new visual style, gamers will also be able to level up their heroes and customise abilities in co-op ‘Hero Missions’—such as altering Reinhardt’s Fire Strike to ignite nearby enemies or modifying Tracer’s Pulse Bomb to cause a devastating chain reaction.
But what might come as a relief to long-standing fans of the franchise is  that Overwatch 2 will carry forward existing players’ accomplishments and loot collections.
More details on Blizzard’s plans, including some of the new heroes joining the fray, will be announced in the future as development continues.
