
# World Rugby: Adding more teams to the World Cup possible but extending the tournament 'would be challenging'

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:10:50+00:00**

Author: **By Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/world-rugby-adding-more-teams-to-the-world-cup-possible-but-extending-the-tournament-would-be-challenging)

World Rugby chairman Sir Bill Beaumont has hailed Japan 2019 as “probably the greatest” Rugby World Cup in history.
The six-week tournament drew to a close with South Africa clinching their third world title by beating England in Yokohama.
France will host the event in 2023, with Beaumont also confirming that a dual bidding process will begin late next year for the 2027 and 2031 tournaments.
That would replicate the system used for 2015 and 2019, when England and Japan won staging rights.
And after the success of the sport’s first world cup in Asia, the door could be open for a strong bid from the United States.

        Continue reading below…
      

        Click here to see the video
      
“Japan 2019 will be remembered as probably the greatest Rugby World Cup,” said Beaumont, speaking at the tournament’s closing press conference in Tokyo.
“It has certainly been the most ground-breaking in terms of bringing the game to new audiences and attracting new fans to the sport.
“It has been amazing what we’ve experienced over the last six weeks, culminating in an outstanding final.
“As we look to the future, I can confirm that the World Rugby Council has approved the implementation of a dual host selection process for 2027 and 2031.
“The dual selection process will be launched in November 2020 and will enable World Rugby to select an optimal combination of hosts, rather like what we’ve achieved here.
“It will also give successful candidates longer preparation time to prepare and look at the costs and management of delivering tournaments.”
World Rugby chief executive Brett Gosper added: “Is this the greatest World Cup ever? Certainly the statistics would say that it is.
“More than 1.7 billion social media views – a world record television audience, 99 per cent stadium attendance, 1.2 million in the fan zones and possibly the largest digital sports event of 2019.
“It is the most competitive World Cup ever, with average winning margins between Tier One and Tier Two (teams) down.
“The average winning margin 30.5 (points) is a new low, there were Asian quarter-finalists (Japan) for the first time and very positive player welfare outcomes.”
