
# Apex Legends now has a firing range, so you can improve without being murdered

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:01:03+00:00**

Author: **Austen Goslin**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/5/20950186/apex-legends-firing-range-patch-3-1-notes-duos)

Players have been exploring Apex Legends’ new map for a few weeks now, and Respawn is finally ready to release its first balance changes. In the latest patch for Apex Legends season 3, Respawn adjusted the damage on a few weapons, and made some quality of life changes, but the biggest addition that patch 3.1 brings is the game’s new Firing Range mode.
The Firing Range is exactly what it sounds like: a spot for you to practice your aim. The mode will let players load into a small arena, either alone or with a squad, where they can practice using all of the weapons in the game. There are target dummies spread around the arena, and weapons attachments for players to try out as well.
A practice mode like Firing Range has long been one of Apex Legends’ most-requested features. As with most battle royale games, it’s hard to practice your aim during a normal match, where you may get a different gun every time you drop, or might only have one fight before you’re sent back to the lobby to start again. Thankfully, the Firing Range should provide a safer place for players to work on their aim, without the pressures of enemies who are actually trying to kill you.
This patch also adds a new Duos queue to Apex Legends which will be available from Nov. 5 to Nov. 19. For a full look at all of the changes coming to the game with patch 3.1 you can see the full patch notes below.
From the lobby you can now select the firing range. Here you can practice playing around with all the weapons, items, and Legends.

        Wingman
      
Changes to Projectile Collision: We’ve increased the projectile width on the some weapons so they are easier to hit with. We made this change to the TripleTake in Season 2 and the following will be updated for this patch:

        Quality of life
      
In an effort to surface easier challenges to players more often and offer a balanced set of challenges each day, Daily Challenge distribution has been adjusted so players are guaranteed to receive 1 easy, 1 medium, and 1 hard challenge.
You can now spend Legend Tokens to reroll Daily Challenges.
You can now adjust the game cursor velocity in Settings -> Controller. This will apply to cursor velocity in all menus including the Lobby, Pause/Inventory menus, and Death Box inventories.
We now show you what Music Pack you have selected while dropping into the map. If you only have the “default” Pack selected you won’t see anything.
Improved flow from Lobby to Match that fixes some minor bugs and will hopefully get players into matches a bit faster.
Player will now be able to view the ammo types of their squadmates equipped weapons when in the inventory menu.
[Controller] you can now open the quip wheel by holding down on the dpad (you can still do it the old way - open ping menu and press Y)
[PC] Quick Chat binding should now auto bind to F1 if it isn’t bound to anything (assuming nothing is already bound to F1)
Players will no longer receive a penalty for abandoning a match if they leave after 2 and a half minutes have passed since their Banner was picked up after dying. As a reminder: players will be warned via the menus if their leaving may trigger abandon penalties; if the warning does not show up players are free to leave.

        Crypto
      

        Bangalore
      
