
# Jurgen Klopp confirms Mohamed Salah injury as Liverpool star's ankle issue continues

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **David Maddock, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-maddock/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/mohamed-salah-injury-update-jurgen-20790927)

Mo Salah is suffering from an “annoying problem”, which has forced him to sit out training with the first team squad this week.
But Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp still believes his superstar striker can be available for the visit to Aston Villa this weekend, despite an injury which leaves him having to repeatedly drain fluid that collects in his ankle.
Salah was the victim of a cynical hack from Leicester’s Hamza Choudrey almost a month ago - and is STILL plagued by issues from the challenge which his manager branded “dangerous as hell”.
He pulled up at the end of the Premier League clash with Spurs last weekend, and hobbled down the tunnel with an ice pack strapped to the ankle. That has forced him to follow a tailoring fitness plan this week away from the first team squad.
But Klopp has calmed fears from millions of the player’s fans worldwide, when he said: "He should be fine. He has had to do his individual stuff but he will be in training (on Friday).
“I think it is more really annoying - for him, not me - the fact that the injury always has a bit of fluid in, and he has to deal with it, we get it out and it comes back, and stuff like that.
“But this is not a real injury in this sense, so I’ve heard (from the physios), so he should be fine."
Klopp will decide whether to rest the Egyptian again for the visit to Villa Park, and he also has a selection headache over midfielder Fabinho, who is one booking away from a ban, which if it came at the weekend, would mean he missed the titanic clash with Manchester City .
The Liverpool boss insisted he is aware of the problem, but hasn’t decided yet whether to rest the Brazilian….even though the indications are he will be saved for the City game. “I know it of course, we have to deal with,” Klopp said.
“Maybe he has to deal with it on the pitch or I have to deal with it with the line-up. We didn't make a final decision yet, so we will see."
