
# The allure of modern imbalances

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/opinion/views/the-allure-of-modern-imbalances/articleshow/71943902.cms)

By Santanu ChakrabortyWiping these microorganisms out can disrupt interactions that have existed in a stable equilibrium for centuries if not millennia of human evolution leading to disease Recent trips into the wilderness have made me acutely aware of the increasing curtailment of life in our cities. Nature is teeming with species, all feeding off of each other, dependent on other species in ways beyond food that we do not understand. But if you look at the ways in which we conceptualize modern cities – the aspirational living environment of most human beings today; you will see a trend. Our effort is directed towards ensuring that only one species is able to live comfortably in our dwellings. This preference is reflected in the extraordinary abundance of products, a variety of industrial chemicals, used to sanitize our homes. Hydrochloric acid, bleach and phenol are used to clean our homes regularly. A tiniest hint of insects in the house and we have at our disposal a wide range of insecticides such as DDT, phorates, permethrin and pyrethrins. Note that the broader superfamilies into which these chemicals belong are all in widespread use not only inside our houses but also in the farms that produce our food. These are extremely toxic to pests – as intended – but also to a variety of other insects as well as other animals that inhabit our land. Subjecting ourselves and our environment – land, water, food and air – to such chemicals is bound to have consequences. The trouble is that the civilizational change has been so rapid over the past century that we simply have not bothered to investigate the consequences of such rapid alterations to the ecosystem. The increase in comfort as well as lifespan provided by modern science and technology means that any attempt to suggest that the products we enjoy today may also be harming our civilization is met with derision. There are many manifestations of hidden feedbacks in natural systems being exposed when we have pushed the balance too far into one direction. Scientists studying the populations of animals in isolated islands have noted the occurrences of mass die offs occurring in a cyclic fashion validating mathematical models that predict exactly such behavior in closed systems, that is those that have essentially no input from the outside; much like our planet. The presence of such population cycles validates notions that feedback mechanisms play an important role in nature. The destruction forests and tree cover, proceeding rapidly in our neighborhoods, our villages and our grand forests – such as the Amazon – are altering the large scale balance of nature. Coupled with other industrial activities, such the burning of fossil fuels, these activities are setting into motion feedback loops whose ultimate effect in a complex system we cannot predict very well. It is clear that if the ecosystem changes too rapidly for us to evolve as a species, then we will be faced with a great deal level of suffering. Warming is a global issue today. Yet there is another ecosystem which is only now beginning to be taken seriously and analyzed in the light of human influences on it. On and inside our bodies live more foreign cells – bacteria and fungi – than constitute human cells. The bulk of these live inside the human gut and see the largest ingestions of foreign matter – food – on a daily basis. The last few years have seen a flurry of work elucidating the deep rooted relationships between the microbiome and all human systems ranging from the immune system to the nervous system. We are faced with a peculiar situation. The products that we have developed over the last century or two – antibiotics, sanitizing chemicals and pesticides – increase our lifespan by cutting down acute life threatening infections also alter the balance of the microbiome, often drastically within a few short days. One well explored possibility is the rise of resistant super bugs – pathogenic bacteria that have managed to evolve so that no known antibiotic can beat them. Yet a more subtle problem is revealing itself in the increasing cases of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases becoming standard fare in modern technological and synthetic product consuming societies. Research on the microbiome is revealing that certain strains of bacteria living in our gut exist in complex feedback loops with other systems, immune and nervous systems for example, perhaps stabilizing aspects of them. Wiping these microorganisms out can disrupt interactions that have existed in a stable equilibrium for centuries if not millennia of human evolution leading to disease. The microbiome’s dysfunction is now increasingly implicated in many chronic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, irritable bowel syndrome, inflammatory bowel disease, food allergies, cancer, depression and other psychiatric conditions to name just a few. These examples of exuberant alterations of our ecosystems – internal and external – revealing unexpected consequences in a giant interlinked feedback system of elements does not come as a surprise to mathematicians as they have studied strange behaviors such multi-agent systems beginning with the French mathematician Henri Poincaré’s work on the dynamics of three interacting bodies in 1887. It is over a century later; time that we consider that our actions on our ecosystems have strange consequences and go a little slower than we might first have thought wise.
