
# Jack Harrison seals win over QPR to keep Leeds on promotion track

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:02:11+00:00**

Author: **PA Media**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/02/leeds-qpr-championship-match-report)

Leeds returned to the top of the Championship after goals in each half from Tyler Roberts and Jack Harrison settled the contest. Leeds move above Swansea on goal difference.
In what has been a recurring theme for Leeds this season, they struggled to kill off their opponents, which is a concern for Marcelo Bielsa. “If we are winning by one goal and you have five minutes left, then everybody is nervous in the stadium,” he said.
“We have that match to match and we hope we don’t have more of this feeling. We need to be more relaxed.”
Leeds were dealt a blow before kick-off with the news that top scorer Eddie Nketiah would miss the game after sustaining an injury in training.
Nevertheless, they started brightly and had an golden early chance to open the scoring. Luke Ayling’s precise centre picked out Mateusz Klich but despite being unmarked, the midfielder volleyed over.
Minutes later Stuart Dallas drew a fine save from Liam Kelly, who pushed his effort behind for a Leeds corner. The home side were piling on the pressure and Rangers had the debutant Lee Wallace to thank for a goal-saving tackle to keep out the misfiring striker Patrick Bamford.
Bamford, who has now failed to score in his past 10 outings, had rounded Liam Kelly and looked sure to tap the ball into an empty net but Wallace’s sliding tackle kept it out.
Leeds finally made their dominance count after 39 minutes when Harrison cut in from the left and pulled the ball back to Roberts, who coolly slotted home his first goal of the season.
QPR fashioned a rare chance after the restart. Ebere Eze was played in by Ryan Manning but his snapshot was well blocked by a back-tracking Harrison. Just before the hour they registered a first shot on target but Manning’s effort was comfortably dealt with.
The hosts thought they had gone 2-0 up shortly afterwards when Bamford nodded home from Roberts’s centre but the flag was immediately raised for offside. That failure to find a second goal raised the tension and Rangers missed a glorious chance to capitalise and restore parity. Substitute Todd Kane whipped in a cross that picked out Jordan Hugill but he planted a header wide.
That proved to be costly as Leeds finally got some breathing space with a second goal from Harrison, who played a one-two before bending an effort around Kelly and into the net to seal a well-earned victory for the home side.
Mark Warburton admitted the Hugill chance was a missed opportunity for his QPR team. “They’re fine margins at this level. We didn’t quite have that belief to go and get something out of the game. It’s a tough place to come and Leeds are a very talented team.
“We probably didn’t create enough in the first half. In the second half we started well and at 1-0 with 20 minutes to go we had a big, big chance.”
