
# Swinford group feature in documentary The Patient Effect

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:52:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/05/4181920-swinford-group-feature-in-documentary-the-patient-effect/)

CÚRAM, the SFI Centre for Research in Medical Devices based at NUI Galway, has announced the documentary, The Patient Effect, has been selected as the Science on Screen commission for 2019. The documentary will have its world premiere screening at Pálás Cinema in Galway on Saturday, November 16, at 6 p.m.
The documentary tells the story of public and patient involvement in research – how tapping into the lived experience of patients, their families and carers has the potential to hugely enhance the quality and relevance of health and medical research.
Directed by Mia Mullarkey, this Irish documentary follows three personal stories, which reflect the power of including public and patient voices in planning and conducting research.
Among them is Margaret Devaney and the Swinford Arthritis Walking Group who provide a first-hand insight of the impact of chronic pain on their day-to-day life with medical device developers at NUI Galway, inspiring the developers in their research endeavours.
Paul Ryan, father to Sophia, who was born premature at 25 weeks, is contributing to a major research programme, exploring the most effective methods to monitor and manage babies with neonatal brain injury.
And Cameron Keighron (NUI Galway Students' Union VP and Education Officer) lives with Type 1 diabetes and has been heavily involved in developing a new way of delivering healthcare to young people with diabetes.
Professor Andrew Murphy from NUI Galway, and Director of the HRB Primary Care Clinical Trials Network Ireland, said: “In health research, it is crucial that the public and patient voice is heard, helping to ensure that publically-funded research addresses issues that matter to patients. We hope this documentary will inform people about the importance of public and patient involvement in research and inspire both the public and researchers to get involved.”
Produced by Alice McDowell of Ishka Films, the chosen documentary overcame stiff competition from production companies based all over Ireland. Speaking about the documentary, McDowell said: “Patient and public voices have the power to transform the way we approach scientific and medical research in Ireland and worldwide. We've certainly witnessed this phenomenon during the past couple of months of filming and are excited to share three moving and inspiring stories in our soon-to-be-released documentary.”
Free tickets for the premiere on Saturday, November 16, in Pálás Cinema, Spanish Arch, Galway, are available on: https://bit.ly/2WICydr. The Patient Effect will also be screened in the ARD Family Resource Centre, Doughiska, on Thursday, November 21, at 12 p.m. All are welcome.
