
# Over 120 Women At The BBC Complained About Equal Pay, A New Document States

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:25:28+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/samira-ahmeds-equal-pay-case-against-the-bbc-escalates-as-121-womens-complaints-are-released-19288132)

According to a newly-released document, more than 100 women have complained to the BBC about equal pay. Forming part of the supporting evidence in presenter Samira Ahmed's equal pay case, per the Telegraph, the list openly states the names of 121 female employees who signed a letter in 2017 aiming to address pay inequality.
Ahmed's representation, Thompsons Solicitors, have asked media outlets not to identify the individuals, reports the Guardian, to avoid "a breach of privacy." Some have published them anyway. (The BBC said it is not responsible for the unredacted list. The National Union of Journalists, which issued the letter, said names "should have been redacted.")
The number of women unhappy with the BBC's pay scale only serves to escalate Ahmed's case against the corporation. Ahmed wants almost £700,000 in BBC backpay, per the Guardian, after finding out she was paid £440 per episode for presenting Newswatch compared to Jeremy Vine's £3,000 per episode pay for Points of View. Her tribunal began on Monday, Oct. 28, and is expected to last until Nov. 5.
Ahmed, who previously received backdated pay for radio work, per The Times, is arguing that both programmes are of similar length with a similar format and that she did more scriptwriting work than Vine. Her team have also stated that viewing figures for Newswatch more than double those of Points of View.
