
# Jurgen Klopp admits concerns over Fabinho's availability for Man City clash

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:17:05+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopp-explains-fabinho-selection-20789563)

Jurgen Klopp has admitted he faces a selection dilemma involving Fabinho for Liverpool's clash with Aston Villa.
The Reds are looking to maintain their unbeaten start to the season with a trip to the promoted club on Saturday.
Klopp has been re-jigging his side to deal with Liverpool's Champions League and Carabao Cup commitments.
But despite resting Fabinho in midweek, he revealed the Brazilian might not play due to his disciplinary record.
Liverpool's next fixture is against title rivals Man City next week, and Fabinho has already collected four bookings in the Premier League this season.
A yellow card against Villa on Saturday would result in the midfielder being suspended for the top-of-the-table clash with City.
And Klopp was unsure whether he was willing to take that risk.
Asked how he would deal with his problem, Klopp joked: "No challenges at all."
Before adding: "It's not possible against Aston Villa, playing without challenges in that position. You cannot ask for this. Player knows it, I know it.
"It's information we have to deal with. Maybe he has to deal with it or I have to deal with it with the line-up.
"I didn't make a decision yet, so we will see."
Should Fabinho be rested for the occasion it is likely that either Jordan Henderson or Georginio Wijnaldum would slot into the holding midfield role.
That would leave a space for one of James Milner, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain or Adam Lallana to start.
Milner and Lallana both played the whole match against Arsenal on Wednesday, with the latter occupying the holding role.
It was only the second time Lallana had played in that position in competitive action for Liverpool however, and it is doubtful that Klopp would play him there against Villa.
Oxlade-Chamberlain has been pushing for a start with three goals in his last two outings, but Klopp insisted he wanted more from the player.
"He has scored, nice, both at Genk, a real stunner on Wednesday, a lot of outstanding moments, but other moments he is not involved," Klopp said.
"We always have to try to reach perfection. He still needs rhythm but that is no problem. He is a long-term project."
Naby Keita picked up an injury against Arsenal, but could still make the squad.
Klopp said: "Naby, I don't know [if he will be fit], we will see."
