
# Glasgow University student injured in horror coach crash in France

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:45:51+00:00**

Author: **Samantha Croal, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/samantha-croal/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/glasgow-university-student-injured-horror-20805145)

A Glasgow University student is among 33 people injured in a horror coach crash in France.
Ten British tourists were seriously injured when the coach departing from Paris to London skidded out of its lane and travelled down a verge before rolling onto its side on the A1, east of Amiens.
Tourists from nine nations were on board from the UK, France, the US, Spain, Australia, Romania, Mauritius, Japan and Sri Lanka.
Glasgow University student Jamie Kerr, 20, and his girlfriend Gemma Given, both from Northern Ireland were treated in hospital for head and hand injuries.
 
The couple were offered a bus back to the UK but decided to make their own way home after their ordeal.
His dad told the BBC: "I feel a bit more could have been done for them.
"They'll learn a lot from all of this but I'm expecting an emotional response when they get home and it all hits them."
The incident happened on the A1 motorway, near Saint-Quentin, Somme, just before 12pm local time on Sunday.
Five patients - three of them British - suffered serious injuries, while the others suffered lighter injuries.
Fire crews had to cut open part of the coach to free trapped passengers.
A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are in contact with the French authorities following a road traffic accident in France and we will do all we can to assist any British people who need our help."
