
# Chiefs ‘Meant Business’ But…

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:03:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/kaizer-chiefs-felt-they-were-in-charge-against-orlando-pirates/666772)

Kaizer Chiefs ‘lost concentration’ and ‘lost focus a bit’ against Orlando Pirates, but they won’t be too bothered after they dumped their bitter rivals out of the cup.

        Read: Amakhosi’s Big Derby Decision…
      
The past weekend’s Soweto Derby in the Telkom Knockout was full of drama, with red cards, extra-time and a penalty shootout all there for the public to witness alongside the four goals that were scored. 
It was Ernst Middendorp’s Kaizer Chiefs that eventually came out on top, leaving Rulani Mokwena and his Buccaneers to head home to lick their wounds following the passing of another chance to end their trophy drought. 
The Amakhosi coach was pleased with his troops for their efforts at Moses Mabhida Stadium even if it wasn’t a perfect display, and insists they were ‘definitely in charge’. 
Speaking to Chiefs’ official website this week, Middendorp said, “We started well and scored goals… We lost concentration at some points during the game. After they got the red card, we lost focus a bit. But all in all, we showed character and experience. 
“We were tight and we didn’t lose shape. We aligned in the second half and continued to exert ourselves in the game. We were definitely in charge, no doubt about that. I cannot follow what others saw. We will discuss the shortcomings more. I thought when we had an extra man after their red card, we got carried away in the extra time. We will handle it differently going into the future.”
The German also added that his substitutions showed that they meant to finish the game before penalties, even though it wasn’t meant to be, saying, “We kept our structure and our way of playing throughout and that is pleasing. We just changed position by position. We brought in Dumsani Zuma for Willard Katsande at a goal down. We brought in extra attack in Bernard Parker for Njabulo Blom. We meant business and wanted to win the match in regulation time.

        Read: Calls To Respect ‘Quality’ Pirates
      
“These types of derbies are always unpredictable. We were prepared for this match. No doubt we had moments of panic and challenges during the match. But that we will sort out before the next match.”
Next up for Chiefs is a clash with Chippa United tomorrow night as they look to maintain their five-point lead at the top of the Absa Premiership table.  

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
