
# iQOO Pro 5G cuts its price to 3398 yuan ($483) - now the cheapest 5G phone - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:16:20+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/01/iqoo-pro-5g-cuts-its-price-to-3398-yuan-488-now-the-cheapest-5g-phone/)

Rate this post
Since 5G smartphones hit the Chinese market, the price of 5G mobile phones has been going down at an alarming rate. This is actually a very good thing for consumers. Yesterday, the three major Chinese carriers officially announced the 5G packages for China. If you are ready for 5G, in addition to a 5G card or a 5G package, you will need a 5G phone. Many may want to ask, “which is the cheapest 5G smartphone?”. Well, it is currently the iQOO Pro 5G which is presently selling for 3398 yuan ($483).
This device came with a 3,798 yuan ($539) price tag and it was the cheapest at the time of its release. However, the Xiaomi Mi 9 Pro 5G beat it a few weeks later with its 3699 yuan price tag. Now, iQOO decided to activate a 400 yuan price cut which makes this device the cheapest 5G smartphone. This deal is available on vivo official flagship store and Tmall.
The iQOO Pro 5G is available in 8GB+12GB, 12GB+128GB and 8GB+256GB configurations. There is a straight 100 yuan ($14) price cut as well as a 300 yuan  ($42) coupon. This takes the final price to 3398 yuan ($483) and 3698 yuan ($525) for the lower variants. However, the price of the high 8GB+256GB version remains at 3998 yuan ($568). It is worth mentioning that the first top 2,000 buyers will get a Bluetooth headset worth 359 yuan ($51).

        Via
      
