
# 2 lady ‘HVT’s arrested, P6.8M shabu seized

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:09:19+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/2-lady-hvts-arrested-p68m-shabu-seized)

PDEA chair, Director General Aaron N. Aquino identified the suspects as Antonieta Pepito alias ‘Josie,’ a 49-year old jobless resident of no. 32 Katihan Street, Pulong Diego, Muntinlupa City and Judith Amansec,48, also jobless and a resident of no. 132 3rd Street, 7th Avenue in Caloocan City.
According to Aquino, members of the PDEA National Capital Region, with the help of the QCPD Station 2 under Lieutenant Colonel Rodrigo Soriano arrested the two in front of the Banco de Oro branch in SM North EDSA at 6:45 p.m. Wednesday.
Recovered from the two were one self-sealing plastic bag containing a kilo of the so-called ‘poor man’s cocaine,’ the boodle money topped by a marked P1,000 bill and a mobile phone they used in making contact with an undercover officer.
The PDEA-NCR said that the two suspects have been under surveillance for nearly six months until an agent managed to make a drug transaction with them, even making an advanced bank deposit to an account given by the two in order to earn their trust and confidence.
The two were believed to be members of a big-time drug trafficking syndicate operating in Q.C. and other parts of metropolis as well as parts of Cebu province.  The PDEA is also checking an information that the syndicate is being financed and run by a convicted Chinese drug lord who is now serving time at the New Bilibid Prisons in Muntinlupa City.
During initial  questioning, the two  claimed they were merely instructed by a woman they identified only as ‘Ate’ to deliver the stuff for P50,000. The two are now being investigated at the PDEA-NCR headquarters in Q.C.
They will be facing non-bailable charges for sale and possession of dangerous drugs under Republic Act 9165 or the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002.
