
# Meerut boy Nirdesh Baisoya gets ‘perfect 10’ for Meghalaya

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:13:14+00:00**

Author: **Sam Chakraborty**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/meerut-boy-nirdesh-baisoya-gets-perfect-10-for-meghalaya/articleshow/71941200.cms)

Meghalaya off-spinner Nirdesh Baisoya produced a sensational spell of bowling against Nagaland in a U-16 Vijay Merchant Trophy encounter, claiming all 10 wickets in an innings at the Assam Valley School ground in Tezpur on Tuesday.
The Meerut-born 15-year-old, who grew up idolizing Australia’s Nathan Lyon and has been playing professional cricket at the age-group level in Meghalaya since last season, made full use of a turning track to become the second bowler from the northeast to grab all 10 wickets in an innings. Manipur’s left-arm seamer Rex Singh had dismissed all the Arunachal Pradesh batsmen in an U-19 Cooch Behar Trophy match in the 2018-19 season.
“It is an unbelievable feeling. I was confident and bowling well but 10 wickets in an innings was not something I was expecting,” said Baisoya, after ending up with figures of 10-51 in 21 overs.
Having achieved a feat that would have made his idol proud, Baisoya acknowledged the importance of the fielders in his feat. “The wicket was turning but our fielding was quite good. The fielders’ contribution was crucial in getting all those wickets,” he remarked, after bundling out Nagaland for 113 in 42 overs. In reply, Meghalaya reached 109 for four in the 46 overs they played before stumps.
Baisoya starred with the bat as well, scoring 68 runs off 100 balls, before being the third batsman to be dismissed. “After the first session, the coach told me I needed to be positive and that I had it in me to get all the 10 wickets,” said Baisoya, who took up cricket four years back and started as a batsman.
His rise through the ranks has been quick since starting off at Victoria Club in hometown Meerut. “It was during a training session that my coach Sanjay Rastogi asked me to bowl for a while, and that is how I took to bowling off-spin. He kept trusting me with the ball thereafter,” said Baisoya.
Nirdesh’s father works in a factory in Noida and the teenager said his family has supported him well. “They’ve been given me immense support and encouragement. Once they came to know about my feat via the BCCI website, they’ve been on cloud nine,” he remarked.
The off-spinner’s immediate aim is to make the cut for the India U-19 side. “It’s something I’m working hard for,” he said.
