
# WWE superstars were stranded in Saudi Arabia after Crown Jewel and amid tumbling stock price

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:52:27+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/wrestling/wwe-superstars-grounded-saudi-arabia-20791414)

Over 175 WWE superstars, crew and employees were stranded in Saudi Arabia after Thursday's Crown Jewel pay-per-view.
However, Friday Night SmackDown was not be postponed and did go ahead.
WWE hosted their Crown Jewel event in the Middle East country on Thursday, where Tyson Fury fought Braun Strowman and ‘The Fiend’ Bray Wyatt became the new Universal champion, defeating Seth Rollins .
After the event however, stars and crew from both Raw and SmackDown became stranded in Riyadh.
After severe delays, they eventually departed for New York - but many wrestlers were angered by the saga.
While the likes of WWE chairman Vince McMahon and heavyweight champion Brock Lesnar departed on private jets, others had to sit on the tarmac for over six hours. WWE claim there were "several aircraft problems including mechanical issues”.
Facing a 14-hour trip to make it back to Buffalo in time for the Friday night show, many saw their flights delayed by as much as 24 hours, according to PWInsider.
Buddy Murphy vented his frustration on social media, declaring “Never Again”.
 
As such, WWE were forced to confirm that there had been delays, and that the listed SmackDown show - featuring matches such as The Revival vs The New Day for the tag titles and Roman Reigns vs Baron Corbin - would see changes.
"The WWE roster is delayed in its return from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, following a historic performance at yesterday's record-breaking WWE Crown Jewel event.
"More than 175 Superstars, production crew and employees boarded a 747 charter flight back to the United States on Thursday. After the door closed, due to several aircraft problems including mechanical issues, all passengers sat on the tarmac for more than six hours.
"With SmackDown set to emanate live from Buffalo, N.Y., several Superstars felt so strongly that they arranged for their own separate charter in order to make it back to the U.S. for the show. Due to unforeseen issues, that charter will not land until after the live broadcast on FOX.
"The remainder of WWE's Superstars, staff and crew will depart on a charter set to depart Saudi Arabia later tonight.
"As always with WWE, the show must go on. Live at 8/7 CT on FOX, SmackDown will feature Superstars, such as Daniel Bryan, The Miz, Carmella, Nikki Cross, Dana Brooke — plus, additional surprises.
"For the latest updates on this story and tonight's SmackDown, check back with WWE.com and follow WWE on social media.
A number of NXT stars were flown to Buffalo to take part, including NXT champion Adam Cole, who defeated Daniel Bryan in the main event.
The incident comes after WWE chiefs revealed to investors on Thursday that WWE hadn't renewed broadcast deals in key overseas markets - including Saudi Arabia.
WWE co-president George Barrios blamed a slashed profit outlook partly on unexpected delays to the Saudi Arabia deal - stating WWE and some of its overseas partners had yet to find "common ground".
The stock tumbled by 16 percent, to $56.04. It has dropped 25 percent this year.
In the UK, WWE is set to move from Sky Sports to BT Sport in January.
