
# Surrey councillor says decision to ban sleeping in RVs on streets ‘mean-spirited’

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:57:00+00:00**

Author: **Amy Reid, Lauren Collins**

Original: [North Delta Reporter](https://www.northdeltareporter.com/news/surrey-councillor-says-decision-to-ban-sleeping-in-rvs-on-streets-mean-spirited/)

A Surrey councillor said she’s disappointed that the majority of council voted in favour of changes that make it illegal to sleep in an RV on city streets.
Councillor Brenda Locke, who chairs the city’s Social Policy Advisory Commitee, called the matter of homeless people sleeping in recreational vehicles a “non-issue.”
“It was described as preventative but it’s just not,” she told the Now-Leader Tuesday morning, after the Monday night vote in favour of the changes. “There were 27 complaints in 2019 and 25 of the 27 were mitigated with the current bylaw. It just seems to me to be mean-spirited and unnecessary and I have no idea why we are doing it. It was disappointing to say the least.”
Locke said it is also “unfortunate timing” as “the cold winter weather is coming and this will only put people at risk because we do not have alternative housing options for them.”
And, Locke noted “just last Saturday a trailer park in Surrey issued eviction notices to a number of people.”
Councillors Steven Pettigrew, Jack Hundial, Linda Annis and Locke voted against the bylaw changes, with the rest of council voting in favour.
Surrey staff on Monday night had brought forward “simplified” bylaw amendments to deal with people sleeping overnight in RVs and campers after the initial recommendations were referred back on Oct. 21. During the earlier meeting, councillors voiced concerns surrounding the impact the decision would have on vulnerable populations in the city amid an already stressed housing market.
In their Nov. 4 report to council staff recommended changes to the city’s Highway and Traffic Bylaw to prohibit the recreational vehicles from parking for more than 24 hours continuously on city streets, and to prohibit them from being used as a dwelling unit or place to sleep while parked there.

        READ ALSO: ‘Escalating in Surrey’: Council mulling ban on sleeping overnight in RVs on streets, Oct. 18, 2019
      
The staff report states that the amendments will allow for people to be parked on city roads for a limited amount of time, while ensuring the city “can effectively deal with complaints.”
“These individuals are not representative of homeless residents that staff typically encounter, the key difference being the type of shelter used and the fact that, in most cases, these individuals have the means to own, insure, and operate a licensed Large Vehicle in functional operational condition,” the report reads.
However in the few times staff has encountered people in the vehicles “who identified themselves as homeless,” the report states staff has worked with the people to “determine what resources they would most benefit from and to connect them to social service agencies that can support their specific needs, including housing opportunities at the various shelters or RV facilities across the City.”
Locke said she found some aspects of the report “troubling” and described the reference to shelters as “very unfortunate.”
“Shelter is not housing, a person living in an RV, statistically it shows there isn’t a lot of that happening in Surrey, but if they are that is their home at that point. A mat on the floor in a shelter is not a home. I found that insensitive,” Locke told the Now-Leader.

        READ ALSO: ‘There’s no law against living in a motorhome in Surrey’, Sept. 24, 2019
      
During Monday night’s meeting, Pettigrew said he finds the bylaw “ambiguous” and that it has “too much flexibility.”
Pettigrew said he’s had numerous RV owners contact him and “one of the concerns is whether that they’re leaving town or coming back to town, sometimes they’ll have to park outside their house for maybe a day or so while they unload and clean it out and so forth.”
“Sometimes where they end up parking their RV is further away from their home,” he added.
“If there is a regular vehicle, say an SUV and it had a utility trailer behind it, under this bylaw, then it would now qualify as that type of large vehicle and it could be fined if they parked beyond the exceeding time,” Pettigrew noted, saying bylaw language should be “tightened up a bit more.”
Meantime, during the Oct. 21 meeting Mayor Doug McCallum described the issue of homeless people living in RVs on public property as “escalating.”
“We need to address it,” the mayor added.
The following day, McCallum told Black Press Media he had seen vans and campers at Blackie Spit in Crescent Beach a couple of weeks prior and that the city addressed it by locking the gates overnight.
“First of all, there was one or two. Then it was three, then it was four, then it was eight, and one day, I counted 12. My concern was they were leaving garbage behind,” he said at the time, adding that the overnight visitors were “certainly people that were just moving around.”
So far in 2019, the city has received a total of 27 complaints of RVs or campers parking on city streets, and six of those were in regard to the same vehicle. In 15 cases, the occupants and the vehicle had left the area before a bylaw officer could arrive; in 10 complaints, a bylaw officer met with the occupant of the vehicle and they voluntarily complied; and in two cases, a bylaw officer issued a ticket.
The Now-Leader has requested comment on Monday’s approval from McCallum as well as Councillors Mandeep Nagra, Laurie Guerra, Allison Patton and Doug Elford. This story will be updated if comments are received.

        -With files from Tracy Holmes
      
