
# Eat, Sip, Save: four brand-new restaurants and bars to check out

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:35:00+00:00**

Author: **Amy Mathieson**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/restaurants/422102-eat-sip-save-four-brand-new-restaurants-and-bars-to-check-out)

There are loads of cool places in Dubai, and now we have more to try. And the best news this month is that these four are all getting involved with Time Out Dubai's Eat, Sip, Save campaign.Throughout November we’ve teamed up with restaurants across the city to lay on some amazing value meals.Eat, Sip, Save is taking place across Dubai for 30 whole days, and you have plenty of time to grab a bargain before November 30.We've picked out four newcomers, from sports bars to pizza places, noodle houses and juniper bars. Enjoy.For a full list of deals, click here.House of NoodlesLove noodles? Head to this new restaurant and buy a starter and main and you’ll get a free dessert or hot drinks thrown in too. Now the only question is, what to get? Dishes on the menu include buns, street food starters, soups, rice bowls, ramen and of course heaps of noodles.Prices vary. Two Seasons, Dubai Internet City (04 381 8135).JunipersHead to this cute juniper bar in the new Vida Emirates Hills for a special deal on drinks and nibbles. For Dhs89 you’ll get two drinks and an appetiser throughout November on a special Time Out menu, which will be served daily from 4pm until 10pm. Drinks on offer include red and white house grape and two mixed drinks. Date night, sorted.Dhs89. Daily 4pm-10pm. Until Nov 30. Vida Emirates Hills (04 888 3444).MotorinoThis brand-new pizza place has a top deal from Thursday November 7. Buy any pizza and you’ll get an-other one, plus a carafe of house grape, absolutely free. Hailing from New York, this cool new spot is in JA Ocean View hotel and looks like a top place to check out.Prices vary. JA Ocean View Hotel, JBR (04 814 5590).The Exit Sports BarThis new sports bar only opened at the end of September, so if you’re yet to try it out – now is the time, especially with this cracking deal. For Dhs100 you’ll get a one-metre pizza. One to share with friends (or on your own on a particularly hungry day). For Dhs250 you can get a sharing mixed drink, too.Dhs100 (pizza), Dhs250 (drink). Mercure Hotel, Barsha Heights (04 381 8888).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
