
# RB Leipzig untroubled by Zenit in comfortable win

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:26:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/sport/rb-leipzig-untroubled-by-zenit-in-comfortable-win-12067010)

RB Leipzig were dominant as they followed up on last Saturday's eight-goal demolition of Mainz 05 in the Bundesliga by beating Zenit St Petersburg 2-0 away to stay top of their Champions League group on Tuesday.
ST PETERSBURG: RB Leipzig were dominant as they followed up on last Saturday's eight-goal demolition of Mainz 05 in the Bundesliga by beating Zenit St Petersburg 2-0 away to stay top of their Champions League group on Tuesday.
Marcel Halstenberg thought he had given the visitors an early lead with a long-range shot, but the goal was chalked off following a VAR review for handball in the buildup by Christopher Nkunku.
Leipzig captain Diego Demme put the visitors ahead with a dipping shot through a crowded penalty area in first-half stoppage time, after Sardar Azmoun came close to giving Zenit the lead with a shot which trickled wide of the goal.
Leipzig, who enjoyed roughly two-thirds of the possession, surprisingly left their leading scorer Timo Werner on the bench. But he was brought on in the second half and was almost immediately involved in their second goal after 63 minutes.
Werner found Emil Forsberg, who slipped the ball through to Marcel Sabitzer, and the Austrian took the ball past goalkeeper Mikhail Kerzhakov with his first touch before slotting it into the net.
Leizpig have nine points from four games, five ahead of Olympique Lyonnais, who were at home to Benfica in a later game, and Zenit.
(Writing by Brian Homewood; Editing by Hugh Lawson)
