
# Former UK House of Commons speaker calls Brexit Britain's biggest foreign policy mistake since World War II

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:37:40+00:00**

Author: **Adam Shaw**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/world/john-bercow-brexit-britain-biggest-mistake-ww2)

John Bercow, the former speaker of the House of Commons, said Wednesday that he opposes Brexit, describing Britain’s scheduled departure from the European Union as the country’s biggest foreign policy mistake since World War II.
“I’m no longer the Speaker, I don’t have to remain impartial now and if you asked me honestly do I think that Brexit is good for our global standing? The honest answer is no, I don’t,” he said in remarks reported by the Times of London.

        
          JOHN BERCOW, COMBATIVE UK SPEAKER AND BREXIT FOE KNOWN FOR THEATRICS, BOWS OUT
        
      
“I think that Brexit is the biggest foreign policy mistake in the post-war period, and that is my honest view,” said Bercow, who was elected to Parliament as a Conservative in 1997 and became Speaker in 2009.
The former Speaker said that he respects the right of Prime Minister Boris Johnson “to get Brexit done.”
“But there is an alternative view equally that is very widely shared and my own personal opinion is that Brexit does not help us,” he went on. “We are part of a world of power blocs and trade blocs and my view is that it is better to be part of that power bloc and of that trade bloc than not.”
Bercow’s anti-Brexit remarks are unlikely to surprise many U.K. political watchers. Bercow has long been accused by his critics of using parliamentary procedure to stymie Brexit on multiple occasions and for breaching the tradition that the speaker is politically impartial.
Bercow’s statement that he is now free himself from the shackles of impartiality was quickly mocked by Brexiteers.

        
          UK PARLIAMENT AGREES TO DEC. 12 ELECTION, AHEAD OF EU'S NEW BREXIT DEADLINE
        
      
“Much wow, Bercow hid his opposition to Brexit so very well when he was Speaker.,” Mark Wallace, executive editor of ConservativeHome, tweeted.
