
# India men's hockey team thumps Russia to book Tokyo Olympics ticket

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:30:11+00:00**

Author: **Jaspreet Sahni**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/hockey/top-stories/india-mens-hockey-team-thumps-russia-to-book-tokyo-olympics-ticket/articleshow/71870348.cms)

BHUBANESWAR: It didn't start on expected lines. Down by two goals on aggregate, after losing the first game of the Olympic qualifiers 2-4 on Friday, Russia's Alexey Sobolevskiy's first-minute strike gave India the early jitters they so dreaded. But the next 59 minutes, Russia chased an unlikely upset that kept getting away from them. The icing on the cake for the Odisha crowd here at the Kalinga Stadium was local boy Amit Rohidas scoring the final goal in India's 7-1 win.
India's 11 goals against Russia's three in the two-legged qualifier booked a Tokyo Olympics ticket for the hosts. This was on expected lines.
India remained anxious for 16 minutes after Russia scored, when Lalit Upadhyay, in the 17th, levelled the game. Akashdeep Singh then erased memories of a forgettable first game for him with two goals in the 23rd and 29th minute. India led 3-1 at half-time.
The third quarter didn't produce any goals, as the Russian hopes kept afloat, even if ever so slightly. Nilakanta Sharma added the next nail to the coffin with his 47th-minute goal, and then drag-flicker Rupinder Pal Singh came into his own with two penalty-corner conversions in the 48th and 59th minute.
The success rate on penalty corners improved to 3/6 when Rohidas completed the last rites to flick in India's seventh and final goal, which followed the sound of the hooter and loud shouts of hockey fans in the stands.
The match-up against 22nd-ranked Russia was always one that would ask more questions, as you are expected to beat the minnows and if you don't do as expected, fingers are pointed.
Reid explained it.
"It's a very pressurised situation that you are in as a team and as coaching staff," the India coach said in his post-match comments.
"As far as Russia is concerned, they are a really good team. To think we would come out and play fantastically (every time) would probably downgrade the opposition."
But consistency is an objective Indian hockey has failed to tick with regularity. Reid is working towards that in run up to the Olympics.
India didn't begin well in both the matches against Russia, the drag-flickers switched on and off, the second-choice goalkeeper is still a question mark and the finishing of forwards remains a riddle.
"I think for me what we need to get better in is finishing. We are creating a lot of opportunities, which is great. But need to get more return from that. Also in deep defence, we have to get tighter, still giving away too many opportunities (to opponents)," Reid analysed.
There are around 10 months to iron out those creases before flying for the Olympics. The good part is India will have the competitive Pro League to play next year, where they can test their preparedness for the Games against quality opposition.
"I told the players just now that we have nine months (before the Olympics). Just get better and better. That's our plan. Focus on the process, the result will take care of itself," said the coach.
"You always dream of an Olympics podium finish. I was lucky to win one as a player and those memories are things you hold on to. That's what we need to bring to this team and give it a big shot."
