
# Android 10 Starts Rolling Out To The OnePlus 6 & OnePlus 6T

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:35:48+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/android-10-starts-rolling-out-to-the-oneplus-6-oneplus-6t.html)

This weekend, OnePlus announced that Android 10 has started rolling out to the OnePlus 6 and OnePlus 6T. Do note that this is a stable build of Android 10 that we're talking about here.
The update for the OnePlus 6 was stopped soon after it started rolling out, as a bug seems to have slipped through the cracks. The fingerprint scanner on the device had issues on Android 10, so OnePlus decided to stop the update.
Today, however, the company announced that the update will continue rolling out later in the day. Do note that both updates, for the OnePlus 6 and OnePlus 6T, are rolling out gradually. So you may have to wait a bit until it lands on your device.
Advertisement
The update will arrive to those of you who are running a stable build of Android 9 Pie. If you are running beta software, you'll need to switch to the stable channel.
Android 10 brings quite a few changes to the OnePlus 6 and OnePlus 6T. If you've used Android 10 on the OnePlus 7, 7 Pro, 7T, or 7T Pro, you know exactly what to expect.
Android 10 brings some UI-related changes to the OnePlus 6 and 6T, inspired mostly by stock Android. On top of Android 10, OnePlus included its OxygenOS skin. This update will also enhance location permissions for privacy, and add new customization feature in Settings.
Advertisement
You'll get access to new navigation gestures in Android 10. You'll be able to swipe from the left and right sides of the display in order to go back. A bottom navigation bar has also been added, so that you can switch between apps quickly.
This is just one option in the settings, though. OnePlus' very own navigation gestures are also included, as are on-screen buttons. Do note that you can remove that bottom navigation if you want as well. OnePlus is offering quite a few customization options when it comes to navigation gestures.
The company has also added the 'Game Space' feature / app with Android 10. There, you will be able to find all of your games, for easier access.
Advertisement
The Contextual Display feature is also included here. It will provide you intelligent info based on specific times, locations, and events. You can find more info about this in the 'Ambient Display' section within Settings.
If you've been bothered by spam SMS messages in the past, that is over now. OnePlus' Messages app now comes with a spam blocking option. Simply open the app and navigate to Settings to see what options are available.
These are only some changes that will come to your phone with Android 10, the most important ones. There are a ton of additional, smaller changes, that you'll be able to access.
Advertisement
