
# Henry Cavill Had A Hilarious Response To Ryan Reynolds’ Mustache Video

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:37:14+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2484089/henry-cavill-had-a-hilarious-response-to-ryan-reynolds-mustache-video)

Written By
Oh, Mustachegate! Will Henry Cavill ever live it down? It’s not the actor’s fault. He ambitiously took on two big-budget roles around the same time, reprising the role of Superman for Justice League and taking on a mustachioed villian in Mission: Impossible - Fallout. When the two projects ended up coinciding for unexpected Justice League reshoots, Warner Bros had to CGI a sometimes funky, clean-shaven Superman into some of the scenes. It’s a hilarious situation the internet has enjoyed poking fun at – and now Ryan Reynolds has joined in.
Earlier this week, the Deadpool actor posted a new commercial for his brand Aviation Gin where he perfectly trolled the Justice League mishap. Take a look:
The genius of Ryan Reynolds’ humor seems to have no end. The beauty of it often comes via pop culture references such as Mustachegate. And it’s officially “Movember.” The actor says he’s “honestly sorry about this” in tandem with the short clip, but why should he be? Henry Cavill certainly provided a great response to play along in the comments. In Cavill’s words:
Amazing. Is the beginning of a beautiful friendship between Henry Cavill and Ryan Reynolds? The image of these two beautiful men in one room could be blinding… but we’re all for the two brawny actors to have a drink or two and discuss the woes of CGI technology and conflicting schedules. Reynolds has cultivated a fun social media “feud” with Hugh Jackman over his Laughing Man coffee company, so wouldn’t it be great to get a Marvel vs. DC feuld going?
Unfortunately, there were more than a few factors that contributed to Mustachegate. Henry Cavill showing up to set with a Superman suit and a hefty mustache was just one of many setbacks on Justice League that would lead to Warner Bros seemingly disseminating plans of a shared universe from their upcoming slate. Namely, Zack Snyder had to exit the film due to a personal tragedy and his vision was compromised. After the release of the DC team-up, Henry Cavill’s future as Superman is undetermined, not to mention that Ben Affleck is out as Batman and Robert Pattinson is in.
In spite of all, it’s nice to see Henry Cavill poke fun with Ryan Reynolds about the famous mustache situation that was rumored to cost the studio $25 million. The actor has talked about it since the dust cleared, explaining he wouldn’t have gone with the specific facial hair choice if he’d known he’d be going back for the reshoots. He now looks back lovingly on the memes and videos, with hopes to show it his grandkids. Now that’s the spirit, Cavill!
The actor has a new bold look coming to Netflix for his series The Witcher, available to stream on December 20.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
