
# ‘Creepy’ Hazel Keech leaves husband Yuvraj Singh ‘screaming’ as she reveals trailer of play directed by Aamir Khan’s daughter Ira Khan

Published at: **2019-11-05T02:01:07+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/creepy-hazel-keech-leaves-husband-yuvraj-singh-screaming-as-she-reveals-trailer-of-play-directed-by-aamir-khans-daughter-ira-khan/271390/)

Hazel Keech, who’s all set to play the lead role of Medea in the debut play directed by Aamir Khan’s daughter Ira Khan recently shared the trailer calling her character ‘creepy.’ The Medea trailer left her cricketer-husband Yuvraj Singh visibly awestruck forcing to him react with screaming emoji.
While sharing the trailer, Hazel wrote, “It’s coming!!! So close its almost here!!! Dates for Medea the play will be released soon! Enjoy the trailer til (sic) then! Keep watching !!!! Eeeeeeks.” Hazel signed off her post with hashtags ‘#excited #imsocreepy.’
 
Hazel’s husband Yuvraj reacted with emojis of Halloween and screaming.
It wasn’t too long ago when Ira had taken to her social media page to announce that she had cast Hazel to play the lead role of Medea in her debut directorial venture, which is an adaptation of Euripides’ Greek tragedy Medea. Days later, she had also revealed the other casts of the play.
The rehearsal for her play has begun in full swing and Ira has been refularly updating her fans about the goings-on behind the scene. She recently wrote, “I’m not very good at acting. I’m shy. And its something I never bothered to work on because I didn’t want to act. Turns out.. You need to act from time to time if you want to direct. Or be able to, willing to or, at the very least, understand how it works. It makes me have to get over myself (which is great). Sometimes I manage, sometimes I don’t. I’m working on it. The key is participating.”
Ira’s debut venture is being produced by Sarika, who is producing Medea under her new banner NautankiSa Productions.
The lead cast of Medea includes Hazel Keech, Varun Patel, Sabreen Baker, Nolan Lewis, Rohini Raja and Divyesh Vijayakar among others. Medea will be played in several cities across India starting December this year.
 
