
# Top 10 bikes of EICMA 2019

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:40:00+00:00**

Author: **Amaan Ahmed**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/top-10-bikes-of-eicma-2019-414807)

From the much-awaited KTM 390 Adventure to the brand-new Honda CBR1000RR-R Fireblade, we pick out the motorcycles that India should be excited about.
It’s that time of the year again – the 2019 edition of EICMA is underway, and that means a truckload of new two-wheelers are out and set to hit the road in the coming months. While you’d probably need more than two hands to count all the unveils at this year’s event on your fingertips, we’ve rounded up the bikes that shone brightest under the EICMA 2019 show floor lights and are the ones to look forward to.
Of course, we begin with the motorcycle that seemingly everyone has been waiting for. The KTM 390 Adventure finally made its world premiere at EICMA 2019, and by the looks of it, promises to offer everything an entry-level ADV buyer would be looking for. The 390 Adventure is essentially a more off-road oriented version of the 390 Duke and uses the same 373.2cc single-cylinder engine making 44hp and 37Nm, while also packing in a switchable traction control system and adjustable suspension. Expect the KTM 390 Adventure’s price to be around the Rs 3 lakh mark when it’s launched at India Bike Week in December 2019.
Alongside the rather fetching Xpulse 200 Rally Kit Edition at EICMA 2019 was the Hero Xtreme 1.R concept. Previewing the design direction future Xtreme series bikes will head into, the Xtreme 1.R is refreshingly different from Hero’s present-day offerings. With its distinctive (and highly detailed) LED headlight, floating seat, covered rear wheel and a super-aggressive tail section, the Xtreme 1.R is a concept that compels you take a closer look at it, and while not all of those elements will make it to a production bike, the 1.R does preview a new, sportier Xtreme that’s set to be launched towards the end of 2020.
Showcased in concept form at last year’s EICMA, the production-spec Aprilia RS 660 made its debut at EICMA 2019. The fact that the production RS 660 retains nearly all cues shown on the concept will delight many, as will the fact that the RS 660 is powered by an all-new, 660cc parallel-twin that makes 100hp. The RS 660 weighs just 169kg (dry) thanks to its all-new aluminium frame and swingarm, which means it’ll have an impressive power-to-weight ratio, and it’ll also get a comprehensive electronics package. And the RS 660 had its naked twin for company – the Tuono 660 concept. The Tuono 660 will use the same 660cc parallel-twin, but with a slightly lower output of 95hp. Expect to see the production-spec Tuono 660 at EICMA 2020.
 
Never mind the excess of Rs in its name, the all-new Honda CBR1000RR-R Fireblade promises to be a real weapon. Not only does it look different with new LED lights flanking the central air duct, it also brings winglets to the table, which are said to add the same amount of downforce as those on Honda’s RC213V MotoGP race bike. Not that the outgoing ‘Blade was slow by any means, but the new-gen Fireblade is set to take things to the next level, with its all-new, 999.9cc, in-line four-cylinder engine making a seriously impressive 214hp at 14,500rpm and 113Nm of torque at 12,500rpm. Expect it to be launched in India sometime in 2020.
 
Times are changing at Harley-Davidson. The maker of burly, chrome-heavy cruisers has already forayed into the world of EVs with the LiveWire, and at EICMA 2019, showcased its first adventure-tourer – the aptly-named Pan America. Powering the full-size ADV is a 1,250cc, liquid-cooled ‘Revolution Max’ V-twin developing in excess of 145hp – which is a serious amount of power, and significantly higher than the BMW R 1250 GS it’ll rival. The brakes have been developed in conjunction with Brembo, while the tyres for the Pan America have been co-developed by Michelin. Expect the Pan America to go on sale internationally by the end of 2020.
Keeping the Pan America company at the Harley-Davidson stand at EICMA 2019 was the Bronx. There aren’t too many details on it just yet, but the streetfighter-style Bronx employs a 975cc version of the company’s new 'Revolution Max' liquid-cooled V-twin, which puts out 115hp and 95Nm of torque. Like the Pan America, the Bronx will get brakes developed by Brembo and tyres by Michelin, and is set to go on sale abroad by late-2020.
 
One bike maker that has been on a roll of late is Benelli. The Italian manufacturer has rolled out three all-new motorcycles in India in recent times, and has now unveiled the biggest offering in its Leoncino line-up: the Leoncino 800. Visually, the Leoncino stays true to the design language of the smaller bikes – it follows a minimalist, retro theme, with sharp, sculpted lines. At first glance, it looks like a beefier Leoncino 500 with more prominent scrambler-like cues. Powering the Leoncino 800 is a 754cc, parallel twin-cylinder engine that puts out 81.6hp and 67Nm of torque. If it chooses to launch the Leoncino 800 in India, Benelli could well take the fight to the Ducati Scrambler at a much lower price.
 
Garnering maximum attention at the Suzuki stand at EICMA 2019 were the all-new V-Strom 1050 and V-Strom 1050 XT. The V-Strom 1050 replaces the ageing V-Strom 1000 as Suzuki’s flagship adventure motorcycle, bringing styling inspired by Suzuki ADVs from the past. Nestled within its twin-spar aluminium frame is a BS6-compliant, 1,037cc, liquid-cooled engine that produces 107hp and 100Nm of torque. Suzuki has also equipped the V-Strom with a new IMU-assisted electronic suite called the Suzuki Intelligent Ride System (SIRS). Expect the Suzuki V-Strom 1050’s India launch to take place sometime in 2020.
 
For 2020, the Kawasaki Z900 has only received an update, but it’s a more significant one than you’d expect. Not only does it look sharper and angrier than before – thanks to the new LED headlamp with the Kawasaki H2-inspired LED ‘fangs’ – but also gets electronic rider aids, which it dearly missed up until now. The 2020 Z900 packs in the 3-level Kawasaki Traction Control (KTRC) system and two power modes - Low and Full. Additionally, it also gets four ride modes – Sport, Road, Rain and Rider. The addition of the electronic rider aids is key, as the Z900's competitors already feature them. Expected to go on sale in India next year, the updated Kawasaki Z900’s price will go up by a fair bit on account of the additions.
