
# Cabinet Office blocks publication of OBR economic forecast

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:00:52+00:00**

Author: **Phillip Inman**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2019/nov/07/cabinet-office-blocks-publication-of-obr-economic-forecast)


        Treasury forecaster’s report was expected to show decline in UK public finances
      
The government’s top civil servant has blocked publication of a report by the Treasury’s economic forecaster that was expected to show the UK’s public finances have deteriorated over the last eight months.
Mark Sedwill, the head of the Cabinet Office, pulled the plug only an hour before the Office for Budget Responsibility was due to send out documents that were also expected to chart how Brexit uncertainty has worsened the outlook for public finances.
Sedwill told the OBR chairman, Robert Chote, that publication would be in breach of the Cabinet Office’s general election guidance.
The OBR must present its outlook for the public finances to parliament twice in each financial year. It has yet to produce any forecasts during 2019-20.
The chancellor, Sajid Javid, asked it to prepare its latest estimates to coincide with a planned budget on 6 November. When this was cancelled, Chote informed Javid that he would publish a shortened version to provide an update since the last outlook in March, to include revisions to government debt figures.
In September the Office for National Statistics incorporated student debts into the public finances after analysis found most debts would not be repaid. The impact was expected to show Britain’s annual deficit had increased by about £12bn.
Two days ago Sedwill cancelled the government’s impact assessment of the Labour party’s election promises, citing the same guidance. The decision infuriated ministers, who believed civil servants had caved in to pressure from the shadow chancellor, John McDonnell, denying the Tory party ammunition during the election campaign.
This latest move is expected to quell concerns about Sedwill’s impartiality.
The OBR said: “As we notified the Treasury and Treasury select committee on 29 October, we had planned to publish a technical restatement of our March public finance forecast this morning, bringing it into line with current ONS statistical treatment – for example, the new treatment of student loans implemented in September – but not incorporating any new forecast judgments regarding the economy, the public finances or the impact of Brexit.
“This will no longer go ahead, as the cabinet secretary has concluded that this would not be consistent with the Cabinet Office’s general election guidance.”
