
# UFC 244 Diaz vs Masvidal UK start time, full card, TV channel and live stream

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/ufc-244-diaz-vs-masvidal-20788563)

Nate Diaz and Jorge Masvidal will challenge for the Baddest Motherf***** belt at UFC 244 tonight.
The specially designed and produced strap will be on the line for the first and only time at Madison Square Garden in New York.
Having returned from a three-year hiatus with victory over Anthony Pettis in August, Diaz called out Masvidal and the fight was quickly put together.
Masvidal is riding the crest of a wave having recorded spectacular KO wins over Darren Till and Ben Askren this year.
Indeed, Till will bid to bounce back from that defeat when he makes his middleweight debut against Kelvin Gastelum.
The Brit arrived late in New York but insisted reports of an issue with his visa were inaccurate.
Here is everything you need to know about tonight's fights...
The first fights on the early prelim card will start at 10.30pm GMT. The prelims will then begin at midnight with the main card starting at 2am.
Diaz and Masvidal will be expected in the cage at 4am GMT.
The fights will be shown on BT Sport 1 in the UK with coverage starting at midnight.
The fights can be streamed by BT customers on BT Sport 1 using the website or app.
If you are not a BT customer but are an EE customer, you can sign up for a free trial and watch the fights at no cost. Click here to sign up

        Main card
      
Jorge Masvidal vs Nate Diaz
Kelvin Gastelum vs Darren Till
Stephen Thompson vs Vicente Luque
Derrick Lewis vs Blagoy Ivanov
Kevin Lee vs Gregor Gillespie

        Preliminary card
      
Corey Anderson vs Johnny Walker
Shane Burgos vs Makwan Amirkhani
Brad Tavares vs Edmen Shahbazyan
Andrei Arlovski vs Jairzinho Rozenstruik

        Early Preliminary card
      
Jennifer Maia vs Katlyn Chookagian
Lyman Good vs Chance Rencountre
Julio Arce vs Hakeem Dawodu
Diaz 6/5
Masvidal 4/6
Nate Diaz could fight for the last time against Jorge Masvidal tonight.
Diaz takes on his welterweight rival for the specially-commissioned 'Baddest Motherf*****' belt at UFC 244 in New York.
And having fought for the first time in three years against Anthony Pettis in August, Diaz revealed he could now hang up his gloves.
“I’ll never have to fight again," he said. "I didn't have to fight a long time ago. But what am I going to do? I've got all kinds of other stuff going on, but I don’t like not fighting.
“I’ll take forever off, or I’ll get back to it if anybody comes correct. The only reason we’ve had problems in the past is because you better treat me like it’s supposed to be.
"I've been in this game forever doing my thing regardless of outcome. I’m coming back my next fight stronger, better anyways."
