
# Seven creepy 'public service films' that nearly scarred British children for life

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:07:55+00:00**

Author: **Hannah Dodd, https://www.facebook.com/JournoDodd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/seven-creepy-public-service-films-20751758)

Safety warnings for children also walk a fine line - serious enough to get the message across without being so troubling that your little one is traumatised.
Kids of the 90s may well remember the polite but stern 'Not the child- The sparkler' ads, maybe even the cute 'King of the Road' Safety Hedgehogs'.
But for the generation before that, the video arm of the now defunct 'Central Office of Information' clearly had an 'anything goes policy' when it came to public safety videos.
From the grim reaper delighting in a child drowning, to a cat intervening in a child abduction case, these are the nightmarish cautionary tales that a generation were raised on.
For a generation that wore that much nylon anything flammable was a risk, but to say the ads where on the terrifying side was an understatement.
The ad showed a little girl who had decided to handle a sparkler, not knowing they could remain hot long after they'd burnt out.
As you might imagine the caption 'Don't start November 6th like this' followed by a bandaged child,  was enough to scare most children away from sparklers for life.
 
The stepped up versions of these adverts, aimed at older children, included a firework exploding in a child's face after being thrown at her.
But one ad in particular that scared us witless was shot entirely from behind the child, later revealing he had been blinded by a firework that also "exploded in his face".
But despite their seemingly over the top message, fireworks when handled improperly are a real danger. Stay safe out there.
 
The film aimed at seven to ten-year-olds was commissioned by the COI in response to the high number of child drowning cases in the UK during the 1970s.
The sombre film involved a creepy voice over from none other than 'The spirit of lonely water' who looked an awful lot like, well, the grim reaper.
The commentary opens with "I am the spirit of dark and lonely water: ready to trap the unwary, the showoff, the fool..." and to a shot of the grim reaper in the reeds (Comforting).
The film shows bunch of children playing on a construction site (casual 1970s child activity) before a child is sucked into a watery vortex trying to retrieve his football.
The voice then says "the show offs are easy, but the unwary ones are easier still" as another child is dragged to a watery grave.

         
      
Cut to a shot of the danger no swimming sign, with the voice saying "Only a fool would ignore this. But there's one born every minute."
Lastly the camera pans through a rusty, dysentery ridden embankment, where a bunch of children pull a boy out of the water.
The spirit of lonely water says "sensible children, I have no power over them" before dissolving and maniacally cackling "I'll be back" as the children throw his shawl into the water.
But as most of the children who watched it at the time will tell you what the film actually did was deter most children from swimming ever again.
 
"Charlie Says" was a series of six short animated films about a boy called Tony and his cat Charlie aimed at children.
Charlie, a cat with a voice that grated worse than your tape getting stuck recording Top 40, used to warn Tony (who would translate his garblings) against everything from matches to scalding hot kettles.
But one episode that continues to haunt the memories of  British children everywhere was about never going off with strangers.
The film starts with Tony saying "Charlie and I were in the park. Then this man came up and said would I like to see some puppies?
"And I said Yes. And I was going to go but Charlie stopped me.
It finishes with Tony saying "Charlie's reminded me I shouldn't go off with people I don't know. Then the man went away. We went and told mummy and she said we'd been very good."
The film provides a haunting window to the past, to a decade living in the wake of the Moors' murders, a time where many people mistakenly believed only strangers hurt children.
 
It must be quite comforting to know you survived a generation where even fridges could kill you.
This was a genuine public information film, illustrating the dangers of discarded 'lock' friges.
And in fairness they were very dangerous, if a child got locked inside they could suffocate, because as the advert points out, fridges were impossible to open from the inside.
The advert opened with the line, "to her it's a caravan, a ship, a castle, even a bed".
The wonder of magnetic locks has somewhat diminished this threat but the creepy film still remains.
 
Play Safe consisted of three films, highlighting the dangers of playing near electrical equipment such as overhead lines, electrical substations and pylons.
Each film was part of a longer film to be shown in schools, and as you might expect some dramatic license was used to scare children straight.
It was commissioned by the Electricity Council, and featured an animated robin and owl.
But the final film Frisbee, was not narrated, and struck rather a more sombre tone.
The film showed two children sneaking into a substation to retrieve a frisbee, the children had seen older children sneak in the week before, and Jimmy decides to go first.
He climbs onto a transducer, and the last thing we see is his legs on fire and his friend screaming "Jimmy".
The radio plays telling viewers that a sixty six thousand volt shock killed a boy when he broke into a substation.
The last scene showed a cap and school blazer lying vacant near the porch. Bleak.
The film was later replaced with a film called 'Powerful Stuff' which placed a greater emphasis on older children.
 
On the surface Tufty is no more scary than any of the clangers, the Magic Roundabout characters, or Rainbow puppets of the 70s.
But there's something about Tufty's lifeless eyes that unnerve people.
That and the fact most of Tufty's woodland palls keep getting hit by trucks which is rather a downer for children.
Tufty's information films definitely aren't for the iPhone generation, but at the time he was a dynamite way of teaching young children about road safety.
But one problem with the films lies in the fact the cartoons tone has aged really badly.
Willy Weasel is hit by a car, and the Police Officer badger pretty much drags him out the road and says on your bike son, giving the pair a brief scolding of "Oh you are silly boys to play in the road".
Not one person rang an ambulance, then again in those days it probably would have come rather late anyway.
 
