
# Brescia coach praises Mario Balotelli for reaction after racist abuse by Verona fans

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:09:12+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/brescia-coach-praises-mario-balotelli-20803376)

Brescia boss Eugenio Corini praised Mario Balotelli after the striker's reaction to suffering racist abuse on Sunday.
Balotelli, the ex-Liverpool and Manchester City forward, was left angered by chants and kicked the ball into the crowd.
Balotelli threatened to walk off the field, but was convinced to remain by his teammates and opponents, who consoled him on the field.
Several Brescia players told the referee Maurizio Mariani, that they had heard the abuse, and Mariani halted the game as part of the anti-racism protocol.
A message was read out to fans over the stadium PA and Balotelli completed the game, scoring late on as Brescia fell to a 2-1 defeat.
But Balotelli departed the field at full-time visibly upset, covering his face.
Speaking at his post-match press conference, Corini said: “Mario is a good lad. He heard something from the stands and his teammates did well to reassure him.
"Then the game continued and he was good and although he was hit emotionally, he continued to play.
"The referee also read the situation well by temporarily suspending the game.
"From there on, the match became more difficult and it was played in a strange atmosphere, but we thought we’d done enough to balance it out."
Verona boss Ivan Juric claimed not to have heard any abuse, and labelled anyone it "a lie" that there had been racism at the Bentegodi.
"I don't know what set Balotelli off, you have to ask him.
“I am not afraid to say there were no racist chants today. They might’ve jeered and mocked the great player, but there was nothing there. Nothing.
“I’ve been called ‘s***** gypsy’ many times and Italy is moving towards this general idea of blaming foreigners for everything, but this was not the case today.
“You can ask him, there was nothing there. I am disgusted by racist abuse and I will be the first to condemn it when it happens, but this was not it.
“They provoked him with jeers and sarcastic chants, but they were not racist. Anything else is a lie."
