
# Reports: Real Madrid Preparing Record Transfer For Mbappe

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/reports-real-madrid-preparing-record-transfer-for-kylian-mbappe/666869)

With Kylian Mbappe overtaking Neymar as Paris Saint-Germain's most important player over the past year, the French superstar could also surpass the Brazilian as the world's most expensive footballer amid rumours Real Madrid are preparing to break the bank for his signature.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see the five most expensive transfers of all time, according to Transfermarkt.
        
      
The 20-year-old has been linked with Los Blancos since he was a young teenager, and was reportedly close to joining the Spanish giants in 2017.
Mbappe is believed to have chosen Paris Saint-Germain over Real because he was determined to make a name for himself in his country of birth before taking his career abroad, a move many expect will take place next year.
French newspaper Le Parisien has now reported that the 13-time UEFA Champions League winners are preparing a €400 million (R6.5 billion) bid for the 2018 FIFA World Cup winner in 2020.

        
          Choose the right midfielder for SA's Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt!
        
      
The club's supporters have not hidden their desire to see Mbappe in their famous white strip, even going as far as chanting his name at Eden Hazard's unveiling earlier this year.
It has been suggested that the LaLiga giants are looking for a new superstar to lead their team following Cristiano Ronaldo's exit in 2018, and that the former Monaco man has been identified as that player.
The same reported stated that PSG will attempt to fend off interest in Mbappe by offering the forward a massive new deal, one that would see him earn €40 million (R655 million) a season in France.

        
          Real Madrid Transfer News: Five Out, Five In?
        
      
If Los Blancos were to secure the young striker's signature for the massive amount being discussed, he would become the most expensive player of all time, ahead of Neymar, for whom PSG paid €222 million (R3.6 billion) two years ago.
