
# After Lopsided Win, 61-13, High School Coach Is Suspended

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:00:12+00:00**

Author: **Ed Shanahan**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/02/nyregion/football-coach-suspended-sportsmanship.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

When the Plainedge Red Devils extended their rout last week of the South Side Cyclones with a fourth-quarter touchdown, it was a crowning moment for the winner of a big game between unbeaten high school football teams on Long Island.
It was also the trigger point that led to a more surprising result: the winning coach’s suspension.
Nassau County has an unusual policy designed to prevent lopsided results in football games: If a team wins a game by more than 42 points, the winning coach must explain to a special committee why such an outsize margin could not be avoided.
With that last touchdown, Plainedge pushed the final score to 61-13, putting the team in violation, and subjecting its coach, Robert Shaver, to a one-game suspension.
The committee determined this week that Mr. Shaver, who became the first varsity coach to be punished under the three-year-old policy, should have pulled his starters when he had a big lead at the start of the fourth quarter, and it found his explanation for why he did not lacking.
So when the Red Devils take the field on Saturday against the Lynbrook Owls in the last regular game of the season, Mr. Shaver will not be on the sidelines calling out plays, and he will not be in the stands, cheering on a squad trying to stay undefeated heading into the playoffs.
In a brief phone conversation, Mr. Shaver, who has led the Plainedge team for more than two decades, was reluctant to discuss the suspension or the circumstances surrounding it.
“I don’t want to make it into a bigger deal than it already is,” he said.
By all accounts, Nassau County’s policy is unique in New York State, and perhaps the United States.
Blowouts happen everywhere, but in most places, according to Bruce Howard, an official with the National Federation of State High School Associations, the issue is handled on the field by letting the game clock run or by simply stopping play.
“I have not heard of that kind of deal,” Mr. Howard said of the Nassau County policy. (Connecticut had a similar policy for more than a decade before switching several years ago to one that relies on a running clock.)
The Plainedge superintendent, Edward A. Salina Jr., did not respond to a request for comment. But in a letter posted online, he called the committee that doled out the suspension a “kangaroo court,” said that Mr. Shaver had been “done wrong” and raised a larger question about whether such a rule undermined the integrity of the sport.
“Who said they are experts on sportsmanship?” Mr. Salina wrote in the letter about the committee, adding: “What are you teaching children by saying play fairly but now you are playing too well, don’t play anymore for the rest of the game. Where’s the life lessons?”
Matt McLees, the country’s de facto commissioner of high school football, said he was directed by county school superintendents when he came into the job three years ago to come up with some way of limiting the number of lopsided scores.
In 2014, he said, there were 26 games where the margin of victory was 40 points or more. In 2015, there were 23, and in 2016, there were 18.
“The differentials in the scores were excessive,” Mr. McLees said. With games ending with scores like 50-6 or 66-3, he added, school officials “felt that took away from the experience of young men playing football.”
The new policy was adopted with input from coaches, athletic directors and other administrators, he said. Since it was put in place, the number of blowouts has dropped sharply: There were five in 2017, one last year and four this year.
In an interview with Newsday, which first reported on the suspension, Mr. Shaver said he had not intentionally run up the score and did not agree with the committee’s interpretation of the rule.
“They thought it was a mismanaged game, which my opinion is, that isn’t the rule,” Mr. Shaver told Newsday, adding that “the spirit of the rule is to prevent better teams from running up on lesser programs and sportsmanship and dignity and all that stuff. I get it. That didn’t happen.”
Mr. Shaver told Newsday that he had not pulled his starters when the fourth quarter began despite Plainedge holding a 35-point lead because he feared that South Side might stage a comeback.
The committee that reviewed the matter — a six-member body made up of local school administrators and athletic officials — was unpersuaded by that argument.
“I’m not sure that a comeback was going to happen,” said Jim Amen, the director of physical education and athletics at Manhasset High School and a member of the lopsided-score panel in his capacity as leader of the county’s sportsmanship committee.
According to Joseph Giannotti, the county’s official sports historian, no local football team has ever come back from a 35-point deficit at the start of the fourth quarter.
People who know Mr. Shaver were surprised to learn about the suspension.
“We love him here,” said Emily Cataldo, who owns Saverio’s Authentic Pizza Napoletana, a short distance from the high school. “He’s here all the time, he’s very well loved by his students, the student body loves coach.
Ms. Cataldo also questioned the rule that led to the suspension.
“There’s been blowouts in sports since the beginning of time,” she added. “So I don’t know why they would change that now.”
Giovanni Muscedere, 20, of North Massapequa played offensive guard on the Plainedge team in 2016 during his senior year. He said via text message that running up the score would be out of character for Mr. Shaver.
“I don’t think this suspension reflects who he is as a coach,” Mr. Muscedere said, “because he isn’t the type of coach to do that.”
The results of Plainedge’s three victories before the South Side game lend credence to Mr. Muscedere’s argument. All three scores — 49-7, 42-0, 42-0 — had 42-point margins that kept the Red Devils exactly on the right side of a blowout.
Arielle Dollinger contributed reporting.

        Continue reading the main story
      
