
# Scott Brown injury flip-flop as Celtic boss Neil Lennon provides update ahead of Betfred Cup semi-final

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:11:34+00:00**

Author: **Fraser Wilson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-wilson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/scott-brown-injury-flip-flop-20788956)

Scott Brown IS a doubt for Saturday's Betfred Cup semi-final against Hibs according to Neil Lennon.
That's despite the Celtic skipper claiming on Thursday that he would be okay for the Hampden clash after being taken off against St Mirren on Wednesday with a thigh complaint.
Lennon spoke to the media ahead of the Hampden showdown and confirmed strike duo Vakoun Bayo and Leigh Griffiths would miss out with the former waiting to see a specialist for a knee injury and the latter just recovering from a thigh strain.
But he also revealed Brown - who trained at Lennoxtown on Friday morning - was a doubt for the match.
"Browny is struggling. We will have to assess him in the morning. It is too early to say but you have to say he is doubtful.
"It would be huge (blow). He is playing brilliantly, he is the captain and he knows how important these games are so we have to see how he is."
Lennon claimed Hearts' sacking of Craig Levein left a "bitter taste" in his mouth.
Hearts announced on Thursday that Levein had been relieved of his managerial duties, would not return to his previous position as director of football and had stepped down from the club's board, although he will stay on in a lesser role until the end of the season.
The decision was taken with the Gorgie club preparing for their Betfred Cup semi-final against Rangers at Hampden Park on Sunday.
Lennon - who had a running rivalry with Levein while manager of Hibs - said: "I am very sorry for Craig. I know how much he put into the job.
"Obviously the results weren't what were probably expected for Hearts.
"He was a good football guy and gave everything for the club over the last 20 years.
"It leaves a bitter taste in the mouth the way some people have reacted or treated him in the past few weeks but he has kept his dignity and I wish him well for the future, whatever he decides to do."
Lennon is looking to secure an incredible 10th consecutive domestic trophy for the Hoops but is guarding against complacency in his side with his former club Hibs struggling at the wrong end of the Premiership table.
The boss said: "We are looking forward to it. It’s part of the domestic trophy haul that we’ve kept a hold of and the players are highly motivated to keep the trophy.
“It’s been an amazing time at the club for the players. There’s a real pride in what they’re doing and we want to protect the record.
 
“I’m pleased with the style of play and results. I’m proud of the preparation and application the players have shown, the bravery as well. I couldn’t be happier with what I’m seeing at the moment.
“We’ve given this our full preparation as much as we can since Wednesday. The squad’s ready and we are looking forward to the game.
“The guys aren’t complacent. We don’t take anything for granted.
"Hibs are the main obstacle and our mindset is good. The way we are playing at the minute, it’ll take a good team to stop us."
