
# Why NFL Star Travis Kelce Was Inspired To Launch A Sports Nutrition Startup

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dave Knox**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/daveknox/2019/11/07/why-nfl-star-travis-kelce-was-inspired-to-launch-a-sports-nutrition-startup/)

Travis Kelce, Tight End for the Kansas City Chiefs, is one of the top football players in the NFL. Over the last year, Travis has taken the lessons he has learned on the field and applied them in his own entrepreneurial endeavors. We sat down to discuss why he is already thinking about life after football when he is at the top of his game and how his newest startup was inspired by something his was doing during games.Dave Knox:  You have had a busy off season as you became involved with two different business ventures. What drove you to start this entrepreneurial journey?
Travis Kelce:  I've always had interests outside of football and now I am trying to figure out exactly what I want to get into once this career is over knowing that it ends for everyone. This year the stars came together and aligned perfectly with Hilo Gummies combining things that I was already using personally and having the chance to bring that to a business level. Last year during the season, I was getting drained towards the end of games. So I started taking gummies to give me the right energy and the fuel that I needed to finish games. And sure enough, I felt how convenient that was, not only during the game, but just being able to take something as simple as the gummy, knowing that I'm getting the right nutrition and the right things put into my body, the right supplements put into my body to be able to perform at a high level. So I wanted to really create that product for everyone. And sure enough, Hilo Gummies is the result of that. We have created everything from pre-workout to sleep recovery, and muscle builder to even a CBD gummy. We wanted to create a lineup that you would need not just through your workout but throughout the day to maintain your metabolism level and get the most of what you are putting in at the gym or anywhere out there.
Knox:  What have you enjoyed the most about the entrepreneurial journey of helping build the brand?
Kelce:  For me it is being the customer of my brand. This is a product that I use because it is made for a person like me and it works to put you into the routine of building muscle and getting your body into the right shape. Personally, it could not have come at a better time because it helped me get back from surgery. I was 280 pounds before mini-camp towards the middle of June. And then by the end of, August, I was 25 pounds less. These gummies had helped my routine, not just for working out every day but staying true to what I needed and when. 
Knox:  In addition to Hilo, you are an endorser for several brands. What have you found different about being an owner of a startup versus some of the other endorsement deals where you are just more of a spokesperson?
Kelce:  Obviously it means just a little bit more to you. It's something that I truly stand for and believe in. I try to stick to that with all of the endorsement deals that I do but you kind of stray away from that. But at the end of the day it brings a little bit more excitement to the table when you have something on the line with the brand as an owner.
Knox:  Have you found the other players respond a little bit differently when you're telling them about the value of the gummies for playing in the game because you are involved with the business and you're an owner?
Kelce:  Oh yeah. Everyone that I've talked to about this is excited. After all, everyone grew up loving gummies, so it's already a fan favorite. You don't have to worry about that. And then you put it into a supplement form and tell people these things are meant to help you perform, help you recover faster, help you just feel better as an athlete or in your everyday life. Everyone gets excited about it and they want to try it. So it's just a cool feeling being a part of that and knowing that everyone sees how interesting they are and they want to venture into the gummy world.
Knox:  We've seen a big change over the last few years where more and more professional athletes are following the path of investing in startups and laying the foundation now for after playing days are over. Did you talk to any of your peers learn your way into this space?
Kelce:  You can take all the advice you want in this world. But I'll tell you what, it's nothing like going out there and actually performing. I like to relate football to life a lot and just sports to life a lot. And one thing that sports has taught me is that you can sit in the classroom and get told what to do all, all day, but until you go out there and make instinctual decisions out there on the field with the ball in the air and the guys flying around you - it's just a little bit different. It is a different level of education. For investing, that set me up to just say let's just go ahead and get out there and see how everything goes. Go out there with the excitement, go out there with a passion in what I believe in and try to make everything just go with the flow of things. I think that's the biggest thing that people get trigger shy on when it comes to opportunities like this because it's a field that they're not familiar with. So I'm really just excited because I'm working with unbelievable people in a new space. Another lesson that football has taught me is working with teammates and being able to work well with someone next to me.  And in this world, my new teammates are the unbelievable people that I'm working with over at Hilo and in my investment portfolios.
Knox:  I was talking with another entrepreneur and he mentioned that he approaches it in terms of studying film to review his decisions. As an athlete you spend a lot of time in the film room reviewing games. How has that practice carried through in your business side?
Kelce:  Watching film and figuring out schematically what your opponent is doing is something you can translate into any work field if you do your research. I tell everybody, be a nerd in your profession. Want to know about everything that's going on in whatever field that you're going into.  If you do that, you are setting yourself up for a chance to succeed.
Knox:  What's the best advice that you've ever received for your career?
Kelce:  I've always been raised on being genuine in who I am and, and doing the right things for the right reasons. And that just comes from my family and my mother and my father and how they raised me. My barber back in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, asked me to look at a YouTube video of a professor at Carnegie Mellon giving his last lecture. And he said at the end of his last lecture, that it's not how you achieve your dreams. It's how you lead your life. And if you lead your life in the right direction, your dreams, your goals, they will simply come to you. So it's just be genuine about who you are and give that feeling of the direction in which you want to go and put your entire life in that direction. And make every decision that you can so that you can maintain in that direction. That has stuck with me everywhere.
