
# Liam Payne says his mum was furious about 'soft porn' shoot with Stella Maxwell

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:48:01+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Wallis**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/liam-payne-says-mum-furious-20813625)

Former One Direction star Liam Payne left little to the imagination as he stripped off for his latest campaign with fashion giant Hugo Boss.
The singer, 26, bared all for the raunchy photoshoot as he rolled around in bed with Victoria's Secret model Stella Maxwell.
The hunky pop sensation has since admitted that he didn't expect the shoot to be so explicit and likened the ad to shooting "soft core porn".
In an interview with GQ Hype , Liam spoke about getting naked and admitted things got "very raunch very quickly".
He said: "There was a real hollow moment afterwards where I was sitting outside smoking a cigarette thinking, 'I have basically just shot soft-core porn'."
The star also revealed his mum wasn't going to be impressed.
He continued: "For one, my mum is going to kill me. For another thing, I don’t know how far this is going to go... That was just the first shot!
"There’s this really raunchy shot of me and Stella, and I showed my mum. She took one look at it and gave me a clip round the ear.
"All I was thinking was, 'I better not tell her about the London buses!'"
Liam also confessed it took him more than 10 months of gruelling training in total to prepare for the campaign.
In one nude black and white snap, the butt-naked star gazes seductively at the camera while propping up his head on one bulgingly muscled arm.
With his gym-honed thighs falling apart, Stella - wearing nothing but a pair of tight white Hugo boxers - straddles the length of his torso with her topless body.
Liam recently admitted the modelling shoot got slightly out of hand as he and Stella downed tequila shots before getting down to their saucy antics.
The butt-naked star - – who has a son with fellow singer Cheryl - is currently loved up with his new flame Maya Henry.
The singer, who rose to fame on The X Factor - appeared to take a huge swipe at his ex Cheryl over the weekend as he gushed about how amazing his new girlfriend - and "best friend" - is.
Liam told MTV that he had never experienced the love he has with Maya before.

        See the full interview available online now via GQ HYPE
      
