
# The almost weekend list

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/the-almost-weekend-list/articleshow/71844867.cms)

Laugh out loud, break a leg or share your stories – make the most of your Friday evening Dark night Are you still in the Halloween mood? Good for you, because this venue is hosting a post-Halloween bash. ‘Night of the Bat’ is calling all ghosts, werewolves, witches and beasts to come out and unleash their dark side one more time. Keeping you company will be DJ Shiva Manvi, who will spin the best tunes to get you under his spell. With years of experience behind him, he is sure to keep you grooving all through. At Shiro UB city, Bengaluru, from 9pm, on November 1, call 8861048756 Comic caper Friday is here and it’s time for fun. And what better way to relax there is than to attend a standup show? So head to this show where fresh, talented and quirky comedians such as Sathya Nandagopal, Shamik Chakrabarti, Kabir Kandwal, and Anand Rathnam, are going to leave you in splits. The line-up is subject to change but the laughs are guaranteed. At The Teal Door Cafe, Hoysala Nagar, Indiranagar, from 8.30pm, on November 1, `200, bookmyshow.com Pack your bags If you belong to the community of travel freaks who believe that wherever you go, it becomes a part of you and you can’t stop raving about your last journey. Then, come, join this meetup. This time, the theme is solo travel, which, if planned well, turns out to be a form of low-cost, independent travel, and is the ultimate way self-indulgence. At Lahe Lahe, HAL 2nd Stage, Indiranagar, from 7.30pm, on November 1, fee is `177, bookmyshow.com Baking 101 This workshop is for baking enthusiasts. Here you will learn tips and tricks to make a variety of cupcakes, ranging from Vanilla to Strawberry, Orange Marmalde, Chocolate and Dry fruits. You will also learn to do piping on cupcakes for a finished look, and some troubleshooting ideas for baking at home. At C5, 292, 2nd B cross, BDA Layout, Domlur, between 2.30pm and 5.30pm, November 1, call A variety show Twenty artists have mounted their latest works in an exhibition called Breakthrough. Some of them are Sachin Upadaye, Bhaskar Rao, Sunil Sarkar, Murukeson, Basuki Das Gupta and Dhan Prasad. All in all, their paintings capture everything from trees and farmers to kings and queens. WHERE: Crimson Art Gallery, The Hatworks Boulevard, Cunningham Road WHEN: 11am onwards, till November 2 Popular choice Dorian Concept, born Oliver Thomas Johnson, has climbed an ascent perhaps exemplary of this generation’s brightest music talents: after experimenting with production software, piano and saxophone throughout his teenage years, he studied multi-media art at an university before catching the internet’s attention with virtuosic video footage of himself shredding on a microKORG and dropping out to pursue music-making more seriously. Today he is a sought-after keyboardist and producer. WHERE: Fandom, 1st floor of Gilly’s Redefined, 100 Feet Road, 4th Block, Koramangala WHEN: 8.30pm, November 1 ENTRY: `499, ticketfairy.com Folk factor Karnataka Rajyotsava celebrations here will be a musical one, thanks to live concerts by Raghu Dixit and Swarathma. While neither of them need introduction, still, here it goes for the uninitiated. The Raghu Dixit Project is a contemporary Indian folk band from Bengaluru. Dixit’s music is an amalgamation of Indian ethnic sounds and styles from different parts of the world. Over the last five years, the band has been a regular feature at venues around the world, and their last international tour spanned six countries and over 30 venues, taking them to venues such as the prestigious Sydney Opera House. Swarathma is also a top folk band from Bengaluru, whose sounds are rooted in Indian folk traditions while leaning on rock, blues and reggae motifs. Their act is high on interactivity with sing-along sections, ad-libbed, repartee and the occasional couplet. It also features faux folk-horses and band members sporting Nehru topis. WHERE: Skydeck, VR Bengaluru, Whitefield Main Road, Mahadevpura WHEN: 8pm onwards, November 2 To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
