
# Higher Standard’s Cofounder Sasha Kadey Enlightens And Shares Five Questions

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Warren Bobrow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/warrenbobrow/2019/11/07/higher-standards-cofounder-sasha-kadey-enlightens-and-shares-five-questions/)

I am learning to love glass, not as a vessel to be sipped from, (which I own a rather deep collection of), nor art glass, which I would love to own more of, if I could only afford it. This kind of glass is used for the enjoyment of cannabis, be it in the concentrate format or the more traditional flower format. Higher Standard’s is an industry leader in borosilicate glass for cannabis enjoyment. And my enjoyment too. I love what they do with simplicity and classic forms. They are a rare find in a field with many players. I’m a massive fan, I also love the Higher Standard store in the Chelsea Market in NYC. At last glance they sell my book- Cannabis Cocktails, Mocktails and Tonics in their shop. Thank you! Warren Bobrow=WB: Tell me about yourself? Why cannabis? When did you decide to leave traditional business for a much different path in legal cannabis? 
Sasha Kadey=SK: I was born in Johannesburg, South Africa. My father is a musician and an Architect, my mother was a model and an actress. Both of them were deeply involved in the anti-apartheid movement (check out my dad’s band National Wake which besides having killer tunes, was unique for being comprised black and white musicians that were living together and making music together at a time when fraternizing between races was highly illegal.) A few years after I was born my parents had enough with the fascist government in South Africa and immigrated to the US. We arrived in San Francisco and then settled in Los Angeles where I grew up. I went to Santa Monica High School, a public school of about 3,500 students from all walks of life. I went to the University of Oregon in Eugene, OR. After graduating I got my first “real job” at King Estate Winery, the largest winery in Oregon. I spent about 7 years building wine brands and working to establish Oregon and Walla Walla as world renowned viticultural regions and tourist destinations.
After that I moved to Miami, FL to join a group of partners’ in forming a company called LBP where I spent the better part of five years building an incredible portfolio of luxury beauty brands. in 2018 King Estate successfully exited Acrobat, one of the brands I helped create, and LBP has had three successful exits so far, selling brands to L’Oreal, Estee Lauder, and Kao. After about 5 years at LBP, a corporate recruiter came knocking at my door and presented an incredible opportunity to join the team at Greenlane. They were interested in my experience working with regulated products like wine, and independent retailers like the high-end salons LBP focused on and had no idea until we began talking that I knew a great deal about cannabis. I was extremely passionate about cannabis, and well aware of the burgeoning legal cannabis industry, and saw it as something of a once in a lifetime opportunity to be a part of shaping a new (legal) industry and an entirely new economic sector. Pardon the pun, but there just weren’t too many new industries “cropping up” on the American economic landscape, so to have the opportunity to play a role in that really appealed to me. It was an opportunity to pioneer!
WB: When did you first discover cannabis? Recreational or medicinal? Outdoor or indoor grown? What do your peers think about what you do? How do you describe your path in cannabis?
SK: It was as a student at Santa Monica High School that I first became enamored of and involved with cannabis. After finishing high school (and miraculously staying out of too much trouble) I moved to Eugene, OR to attend the University of Oregon, where I studied business with a concentration in entrepreneurship and in my spare time got much more deeply involved with the plant as a cultivator. Eugene was a real hotbed in those days for people developing new strains and trying to one up each other with quality and diversity. I was spending ample time between Humboldt, Mendocino, and Eugene which were like the weed-capitals of the world. In Mendo and Humboldt people were mostly focused on big outdoor crops, and in Eugene the environment didn’t support high quality outdoor, so people were focused on producing the absolute best quality cannabis possible in a small footprint. It was one of the most exciting chapters of my life so far, and I expect it will stay that way.
After I finished college and began a career in the wine industry, I set my extracurricular cannabis cultivation aside, and other than personal consumption, focused on professional pursuits. I never would have guessed that all of my knowledge of Cannabis culture, consumption, and my network in that world would later become so valuable to me or turn out to be resume builders. It’s been amazing to find so many of my old friends from Oregon and California have ended up in the industry as well and having opportunities to reconnect with them, reminisce over old stories and adventures and work together on new projects.  I’ve been blessed to have great mentors throughout my childhood and my career, like my uncle Moss Kadey, a hugely successful serial entrepreneur, and everyone was extremely supportive when I entered the Cannabis industry, especially those that knew my passion for the plant. Only one or two cautioned me against it, saying that it may have reputational risk that would preclude me from future career opportunities.
WB: Tell me about your company? What is your six month plan? One year? What obstacles stand in your way? How do you propose removing those obstacles?
SK: Higher Standards is an elevated cannabis lifestyle brand and innovative retail concept, created to provide true connoisseurs with the tools they need to achieve the most elevated smoking experience, from premium care and maintenance products that ensure the best flavor from your material, to exclusive and specialty accessories. Its parent company is Greenlane,the world’s largest distributor of premium ancillary cannabis products. This runs the gamut from consumption devices and accessories to customized child-resistant packaging. We are also a leader in the e-com space with Vapor.com and in addition to distributing the industry’s leading brands, we also own and operate a portfolio of our own brands. The immediate future is focused around continuing to build-out existing and new channels of distribution for the benefits of our proprietary brands and the brands we distribute, while also expanding into Europe and South America. With our proprietary brands, we have some new launches coming up that we have had under wraps for some time now. One I’m really excited about is a line of smoking accessories featuring the artwork of, and produced under license from, Keith Haring. I’m such a big fan of his art and his legacy so that is really near and dear to my heart. On the Higher Standards front we are continuing to expand the line with new products and opening additional flagship retail stores. We are also opening shop-in-shops with some really cool retailers in Europe and within licensed cannabis dispensaries in the USA where we already have three such shop-in-shops in operation. 
The main obstacles in our way are regulatory hurdles and the limited bandwidth we all suffer from in this industry. The industry is changing and growing so quickly and for the most part that just presents an endless sea of opportunities. The biggest challenge is often figuring out which great opportunities not to pursue, as going after all of them would put them all at risk. One really must be careful not to spread oneself too thin in this industry given how many exciting things there are to do. I hope that regulation soon permits us to go beyond ancillary products and move closer to “touching the plant” as our distribution footprint and logistics network is really well poised to flourish once we can open the flood gate.  
WB: What is your favorite restaurant? Where? Food style?
SK: In Eugene, Oregon, it would be Marche or the restaurant at King Estate Winery which is in a huge castle sitting atop 1,033 acres that are certified organic and biodynamic. The restaurant pulls produce from the estate gardens and protein from neighboring ranchers and farmers. In Santa Monica, California I love Elephante, which is a bit of a hot spot at the moment with incredible food, views, and a lively scene. In San Francisco I love Plow, they have the best breakfast I’ve ever had, I also love Hog Island Oyster Co and Gary Danko.
In Miami Beach, where I primarily reside, I love Stephen Starr’s restaurant Upland and Chef Jeremy Ford’s restaurant Stubborn Seed. In New York, I am in love with Red Farm which is helmed by restaurateur Ed Schoenfeld, who happens to be the father of Higher Standards’ Co-Founder Adam Schoenfeld, also one of Higher Standards’ parent company, Greenlane. I love good food, something my parents taught to appreciate from a young age. My mother is a fantastic cook and always made amazing meals and taught me about ingredients and flavors. I travel a lot for business and pleasure, and getting to eat amazing food around the world is a huge bonus. My favorite style of food if I had to pick one would be New American Cuisine in the style of Alice Waters and her contemporaries that have championed locally sourced seasonal food. I also love sushi and mexican food.
WB: What is your passion?
SK: In addition to cannabis and the industry, I am passionate about branding and design; modern architecture; art and music, particularly reggae, hip hop and classic rock; traveling; animals, especially my Great Dane; sneakers and streetwear; and spending time with my family. I also consider myself to be a good listener and love to be there for my friends when they need a sounding board or are seeking my advice. I love helping people with their businesses and strategizing. It is the type of creative thinking that occupies my mind and helps me relax. I find it very rewarding to help people with their problems however I can.
