
# Sony's New WH-XB700 Wireless Headphones Are $30 Off

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:34:31+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-sale-black-friday-sony-wh-xb700-headphones-best.html)

Best Buy has the Sony WH-XB700 wireless headphones on sale right now for $99. That's $30 off of its regular price tag. And it makes an already affordable pair of headphones, even more affordable.
This is just one of many items that Best Buy has put on Black Friday sale, ahead of Black Friday.
The Sony WH-XB700 are part of its Extra Bass lineup – that's denoted by the "XB" in its naming. Which means you're going to get a ton of bass out of this pair of headphones. It's not overpowering, but you can definitely feel it.
Advertisement
Mids and highs will still be crystal clear though. Sony is good with audio quality, because it is also a music label, and it wants its music to sound good on its own headphones.
There's Bluetooth 4.2 on these headphones, as well as NFC. So you're going to get a better Bluetooth connection that will use less battery life. With NFC, it's going to be easier than ever to pair these headphones with your phone. Simply tap your phone on the headphones and you're good to go.
Sony says that the WH-XB700 will last for around 30 hours of continuous playback on a single charge. That's pretty good, in fact, most headphones that are twice this price don't even last that long. On standby, that goes up to 300 hours. So you can leave these in your bag and not worry about the battery depleting overnight.
Advertisement
Finally, there is a USB-C cable included, which you can use to charge the WH-XB700 headphones. That also means that you can use the same cable to charge your smartphone and your headphones. Now that is definitely a useful feature for anyone out there.
You can pick up the Sony WH-XB700 wireless headphones on sale over at Best Buy by clicking here.

        Sony WH-XB700 - Best Buy - $99
      
Advertisement
