
# Team Hong Kong’s unlikely journey to the Overwatch World Cup

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:41:00+00:00**

Author: **Aron Garst**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/5/20949489/team-hong-kong-overwatch-world-cup-blizzcon-2019?utm_campaign=theverge&utm_content=chorus&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter)

It was a warm day in Hong Kong in early October, and Derek Kwok was in the midst of talking to his seven-man Overwatch roster about the future.
The team was attempting to raise enough funds in order to make a 7,200-mile journey across the globe to BlizzCon at the Anaheim Convention Center in California where the Overwatch World Cup would take place in early November. Blizzard had changed the format of the tournament so there would be no regional qualifiers and no way to compete outside of actually traveling to Anaheim. That came with steep costs.
Kwok, who is the general manager of the Fire Dragons, Hong Kong’s Overwatch World Cup team, set up a fundraiser for $80,000 HKD, which is enough to cover flights and hotels for the entire roster, coaching staff, and support crew as well as a training space for the lead-up to the competition. “We never thought the target would be achievable, even if our target was only able to accommodate the flight and hotel costs of players only,” Kwok told me before BlizzCon. “The Overwatch pro scene in Hong Kong is very small, and the current atmosphere back in Hong Kong made us feel inappropriate to raise funds for ‘playing video games in the US.’”
That atmosphere has been well-documented. Protests erupted in Hong Kong back in June due to a bill that allows individuals to be extradited to China. Those who oppose the bill believe it threatens Hong Kong’s autonomy from China, and even though the bill has since been withdrawn, protests have continued as protesters have brought new demands to the government.
Kwok started the fundraiser in July, and after a few months, he had barely made any progress. The team had raised nowhere near enough money to reach their goal in time to make the trip possible. It came to a point on October 8th where the team discussed whether they wanted to continue trying at all, but things changed drastically a few hours later.
”I was working overtime for my day job as a software developer when the madness was happening,” Kwok says. That “madness” happened at a seemingly unrelated e-sports tournament. At the Hearthstone Grandmasters competition, Blizzard had suspended and revoked the prize money of Chung “Blitzchung” Ng Wai, along with firing two commentators who had introduced him, for yelling “Liberate Hong Kong. Revolution of our age!” in a post-game interview. The internet went into an outrage.
Shortly after the news broke, Team Ireland general manager Andrew Bohan posted Team Hong Kong’s fundraiser to the Overwatch subreddit, and it started to blow up. “I posted it at a time where the entirety of Reddit was going crazy over the Blitzchung scandal and when the general public actually sees and understands the struggle, they will provide help,” Bohan says. “It’s just getting those eyes on it is the hard part and Blizzard royally fucking up was the perfect chance to get the public attention Team Hong Kong needed.” Within a few hours, the team had more than $90,000 raised, which was enough to make it to BlizzCon.
“That night at 11PM, we had an emergency meeting, and [Hong Kong player Chi-Yeung “Moowe” Yip] was saying, ‘So we have to go,’” Kwok explains, “Then I said, ‘Yes, that’s what people want, and we have to show the best of us in the arena.’” The easiest part was over for Team Hong Kong. Now, they had to keep up with some of the best Overwatch talent in the world.
“Hong Kong has yet to win an official World Cup match to date,” Overwatch commentator and analyst Kevin “AVRL” Walker told me ahead of BlizzCon. “They currently sit with a total record of zero wins, one draw, and seven loses over two group stage appearances [over the last three World Cups]. Their first win of 2019 would already be a notable improvement on past years, however. Making a deeper run in the tournament in comparison to their other Pacific neighbors would be a strong benchmark to achieve. With Team Japan, Team Chinese Taipei, and Team Thailand all looking very strong, Hong Kong will have their work cut out for them.”
The action started before the hubbub of Blizzard’s annual convention. While BlizzCon’s opening ceremonies took place on the afternoon of November 1st, the preliminary rounds began on Thursday, October 31st, when Team Hong Kong would face off against Team Paraguay in their first match.
Team Paraguay’s Fabrizio “Zio” Liviere was flying high in the sky above the first point on Overwatch’s Hollywood map, waiting for Team Hong Kong to try to overtake his squad. Only a few seconds later, the entire Fire Dragons squad rushed around the corner and onto the point. Hong Kong player Chi-Yeung “Moowe” Yip knew that Liviere would be a pest, disrupting his squad’s push onto the point. Most teams tend to rely on heroes like McCree, Widowmaker, or Soldier 76 to take out high-soaring Pharahs, but Yip didn’t want to wait. He took out Mei’s endothermic blasters and started firing off icicles toward Liviere. On the fourth shot, he connected, dropping the jetpacked soldier. Seconds later, Team Hong Kong nearly team-wiped Paraguay and captured the first point.
They went on to shut the South American squad out.
“It was amazing,” Kwok told me after the match. “That’s the first win in four years of participating in the Overwatch World Cup. The team was hyped. We tried our best playing against all the teams, even to the weaker teams like Paraguay, so we feel it is a well-deserved win.”
