
# Shotts womans life in misery due to waste pile near her home

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:30:17+00:00**

Author: **Gregor Farquharson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gregor-farquharson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/shotts-womans-life-misery-due-20788269)

A Shotts woman claims her life has been made a misery due to the smell of clinical hospital waste being piled up on a site near her home.
Moira Cunningham’s cottage is a few hundred yards away from The Healthcare Environmental Services (HES) plant which processed and incinerated waste from all the hospitals in Scotland.
The waste –including body parts – has been left piled up in bags at a site for nearly a year. Moira, 66, who lives at the cottage with husband Howard, said: “My whole personality has changed because I’m anxious and depressed.
 
“I can’t eat and I look God awful. We are living in a nightmare. There are body parts a few hundred yards away.
“Just talking about it makes me sick. It’s stomach churning.
“My family keep telling me to go to the doctor but I don’t want to go in case I get some bad news. There’s no doubt the strain is starting to take its toll.
The plant closed in December with the company going into liquidation shortly thereafter.
 
Since then, the waste, including removed organs and tumours, has been left lying.
Moira added: “I’ve lived here for 29 years but I’m being driven out by the smell.
“We’ve had to put rat poison down but I’ve got show dogs and I’m worried if a rat drops the poison in the garden, one of my dogs will get it.
“We have to keep highlighting this. This can’t be allowed to be swept under the carpet.
 
“It has been going on for far too long.
Labour MSP for Central Scotland Monica Lennon said it is a “disgrace” the waste hasn’t been moved.
A spokesman for ­liquidators BDO said SEPA and the ­Environment Agency have made regular inspections and are confident there is no public safety or contamination risk. He added the clean up will “be conducted under the auspices of the joint ­liquidators and administrators.”
