
# Sourav Ganguly wants Ravi Shastri to be more 'involved' with NCA

Published at: **2019-11-01T03:23:26+00:00**

Author: **Archiman Bhaduri**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/sourav-ganguly-wants-ravi-shastri-to-be-more-involved-with-nca/articleshow/71846451.cms)

KOLKATA: Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid, who made their debut together and went on to script many memorable moments for Team India, are ready to take fresh guard as administrators together. A day after meeting National Cricket Academy (NCA) chief Dravid in Bengaluru, new BCCI president Ganguly told reporters here, "It was a good meeting. Basically, we wanted to know about how the NCA functions."
Ganguly visited the NCA with other top BCCI office-bearers and met several officials there. "The meeting went for about two hours. I met him (Dravid) separately also to chalk out the way forward." Ganguly did not elaborate on the roadmap for turning the NCA into a centre of excellence, but did say there were plans to get coach Ravi Shastri "more involved" in its activities.
"We will create a system where Ravi's involvement is more at the NCA till the time he's coach," he said about Shastri, whose contract lasts till the 2021 World T20. Ganguly and Shastri have had their differences over the years but that is not expected to come in the way of better coordination. Ganguly is optimistic about the NCA's role in the future of Indian cricket. "Rahul (Dravid) is there, Paras Mhambrey (India U-19 and 'A' coach) is there. Bharat Arun (India bowling coach) also goes there. So we will try and make it a good centre of excellence," he said.
The NCA of late has lost some relevance and is often seen as just a rehabilitation centre, but Ganguly felt otherwise. "A lot of work is done at NCA," he said, adding that Team India captain Virat Kohli is also "very passionate" about the NCA. "We are building a new NCA," he said.
The BCCI has already acquired a 40-acre facility near the Kempegowda International Airport in Devanahalli. Although Ganguly did not visit the site, he is excited about the new project. "Bigger the space, the better it is. Hopefully the NCA will get a lot bigger in the coming days," he said.

        Pink Test: 'SG ball will be okay'
      
The new president also dismissed all apprehensions about the first pink-ball Test in the country, to be played against Bangladesh at the Eden Gardens from Nov 22. "Everything will be fine. There is no problem," Ganguly remarked, assuring that all issues regarding the SG pink ball will be addressed. Incidentally, Ganguly himself negotiated the pink ball while playing for MCC (Marylebone Cricket Club) in Abu Dhabi in 2011. "I played with the pink Dukes ball for MCC a long time back, but this (SG ball) will also be okay," he stated.
