
# Dropbox’s new transfer feature lets you easily send a file to someone, WeTransfer style

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:42:00+00:00**

Author: **Jay Peters**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/4/20947922/dropbox-transfer-file-wetransfer-new-feature?utm_campaign=theverge&utm_content=chorus&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter)

Today, Dropbox announced that it’s rolling out Dropbox Transfer, a new way to easily share files without also sharing access to your personal copies of them. When you compile your files into a transfer, you’ll get a link to a landing page that you can share, and the people who get it can directly download the file from that page or save it to their Dropbox account. It’s similar to simple file-sharing services like WeTransfer, but integrated nicely within Dropbox.
With Transfer, you can send up to 100MB of files with a free Dropbox account, which could be handy if you need to email files that are larger than Gmail’s 25MB limit for attachments. And your transfers won’t live forever, as you can choose to have them expire after three or seven days.
If you are a Dropbox Professional subscriber, you’ll get a few more features: you’ll be able to transfer up to 100GB, password protect your transfer, pick an expiration date, and customize the background on your transfer page.
I’ve only tested making a transfer page from dropbox.com/transfer and the desktop app, but it was very easy. When starting a transfer from that URL, I just picked a file I wanted to add to the transfer, selected my expiration date (it defaults to seven days), and then I had a link I could share out. On the desktop app, I could start a Transfer by clicking on a file and then clicking the “Send with Dropbox Transfer” the option that appeared under the file preview in the right-hand column. Dropbox tells me you can only make Transfers on iOS if you’re a Dropbox Professional user, but anyone can view them if they’re on the latest version of the app.
Here’s a screenshot of making a Transfer on the web:
And here’s what a transfer landing page looks like:
Update, November 6th, 8:20PM ET: Added steps about how to do a Dropbox Transfer in the desktop app and context about making one with the iOS app.
