
# L&M Design Lab's Office / L&M Design Lab

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [ArchDaily](https://www.archdaily.com/916429/l-and-m-design-labs-office-l-and-m-design-lab)

Interior Design  ·  Shanghai, China
More Specs Less Specs
Text description provided by the architects. L&M new office is located on the top floor of an building with terraces of wide view and total vitality for low-rise Yuyuan Road and Xinhua Road Historic Blocks nearby. The top plane rotates 45 degrees relative to the middle plane to cut out four-sided terraces, while bringing multi-triangle, multi-pipe well and multi-inclined beam in the office. We still accept the challenge of triangle for the heartbeat at first sight.
RotateTriangles formed by rotate could be dispelled by re-rotate. The most frequently used printing area, water bar and database are located around the center to make a new rotate and three square work-areas. Outside of each work-area is the terrace and inside is service space.
TwistThe former biggest problem of lengthy streamlines is now a surprise for us. Twists and turns in the space together with opposite and borrowed scenery together make the space like a garden. The twist of the path dissolves the scale while the turn of the space brings changeable scenery. At the first turn, neon flashing in Zhongshan Park expands the scroll, at the second turn, tall buildings of Lujiazui walk into the picture, at the third turn, streams of Yan'an Road flows the sight. We start to treat the office as a garden along with its existing pattern.
Half-lobbyThe beam at entrance act as a spatial clue by cutting into black and white. The white side connects with the terrace to form a wide lobby. When opening the sliding door, inside and outside the terrace form a unique view of the first turn.
We may not live without wine under such beautiful scenery, so we use copper metal to break the black side and form a wine cabinet, which will reflect the sky and flow like canvas when it is cloudy.
The subtlety of gardens lies in the agility of space. Partial mirror stainless steel brings breath to the office space and divides the work-area and the entrance. The doorway is like a picture frame at the second turn, borrowing the scene of the Shanghai center.
CorridorThe third turn is on a flying corridor compressed by data and material shelves and extended by work tables. The beam implies space secondly to make the dislocation of path and sight.
