
# What's On: Multicultural festival in Down, Family Open Art Day in Armagh, The Beating Heart of Ulster in Fermanagh and more

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jacqueline McGonigle**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/lifestyle/2019/11/05/news/what-s-on-multicultural-festival-in-down-family-open-art-day-in-armagh-the-beating-heart-of-ulster-in-fermanagh-and-more-1755936/)

DOWN
COME along to North Down Museum's Mulicultural Festival this Saturday at Bangor Town Hall to experience a range of multicultural activities, entertainment, family-friendly activities and workshops at this creative, community festival.
ARMAGH
Join the Millennium Court Arts Centre Newry this Saturday for their Family Open Art Day. At 11.30am there will be a projection-style screening of Pokemon Detective Pikachu, then join the arts team afterwards from 1.30pm until 3pm to use a selection of materials to design and make fake souvenirs from a fake place.
FERMANAGH
This Saturday evening, the Ardhowen Theatre Enniskillen will host the world premiere of The Beating Heart of Ulster which celebrates the rich musical heritage from both Irish and Ulster Scots traditions as well as the local landscape.
This performance blends song, dance and storytelling and will be performed by local young musicians and dancers from across the district, bringing the audience on a musical journey through the history and landscape of Fermanagh and Omagh.
TYRONE
From November 7 to 10, Craic Theatre Coalisland presents The Little Shop of Horrors. The meek Seymour Krelborn, who works in a flower shop on Skid Row, stumbles across a new breed of plant. He calls it Audrey II – after the co-worker he's is love with.
DERRY
Los Dramáticos take you on an exciting voyage around Latin America and Spain this Friday night at the Playhouse in Derry. Los Dramáticos bring together flamenco guitar, the charango lute and vocal harmonies to give new life to traditional songs from both sides of the Atlantic. For this special show they are joined by renowned jazz drummer Steve Davis.
ANTRIM
The RPSI will be holding its first Model Railway Day at Whitehead Excursion Station this Saturday November 9 with a line-up of marvellous miniature models, steam train rides and refreshments. All this and the Museum exhibits too.
BELFAST
Join TinyLife #Premvember celebrations as they host a special Afternoon Tea event in Stormont, Parliament Buildings on Saturday November 9 courtesy of Robbie Butler MLA. TinyLife guests will have a guided tour of Parliament Buildings, relax to music by the McAuley Swing Duo and enjoy afternoon tea in the surroundings of the Great Hall.
:: For further details on these events and to add your events free go to Whatsonni.com. Follow us on Twitter @whatsonNI and on Facebook at FB.com/www.whatsonni for news, competitions and what's on near you
