
# ‘Madden 20’: How To Download The Greatest Legends Roster Ever

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/05/madden-20-how-to-download-the-greatest-legends-roster-ever/)

I’m a roster maker for sports video games, so I know greatness when I see it. I was considering creating a legends roster for Madden 20, but I decided to take a look on the shared files before taking on such a daunting task. Thankfully, I found a legends roster that was done even more thoroughly than the project I had planned.
The roster maker’s name is cottonpicker122, and his or her work is up and available on PlayStation 4. The name of the roster is “LEGENDZ.” There is also a “LEGENDZ53MAN” roster from cottonpicker122 which is franchise-mode ready.
All you have to do is head over to the customize icon (the gear on the lower right) from the main menu, select it. Then click on “share & manage files.” Next, select “Download Community Files.” You can click the Triangle to search for “cottonpicker122.” You should see both of the aforementioned rosters on the screen.
Download the one you want, load it from the “share & manage files” screen, and head into a Play Now or franchise mode.
Sorry Xbox One and PC owners. Hopefully there is someone who has done something similar and just as strong on those platforms.

        What Makes This Roster So Good?
      
The depth on every team is startling. There are full depth charts with plausible players at every position. A great all-time/legends roster doesn’t have era biases. Cottonpicker122’s roster has players from every era of the NFL and it accurately captures the stars for each franchise.
Not only are the rosters packed, each of the players that have been created have accurate and era-specific equipment. Take a look at Jim Brown from the Cleveland Browns. I put him in a classic Browns uniform so that you can get the gist of the detail:
It was great just looking through all of the teams.

        Where You Might Want to Make a Few Edits
      
First, Madden doesn’t allow you to add X-Factor or Superstar abilities to created or edited players outside of a franchise mode. It’s a silly limitation, but it’s a reality. You’ll have to start a franchise mode and then edit each player giving them the appropriate abilities, or you can go without that step. However, the active players who are on these rosters will have their abilities while the others will not.
I don’t like that inconsistency, but to each their own.
Secondly, there are a few ratings that I will change before starting a franchise with this roster. For example, Miami Dolphins great Dan Marino was notoriously one of the least mobile quarterbacks of any era, yet he has a 70 speed rating. That’s about 30 points too high for Dan The Man. There are a few others that I don’t think are authentic.
Still, wasting too much time discussing things like that, especially since it’s easy to edit, is like pointing out a small scratch on a new Range Rover. It’s missing the bigger picture.
If you have a desire to play with the best legends roster on Madden 20, go search for cottonpicker122’s work, download it, and hop in the virtual football time machine.
