
# John Manley: No shortage of DUP names linked to Upper Bann

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **JOHN MANLEY**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/07/news/analysis-no-shortage-of-dup-names-linked-to-upper-bann-1758706/)

DAVID Simpson's decision not to seek re-election isn't especially surprising.
At 60, he could have easily endured a few more years on the green benches but revelations about his private life appear to have hastened his retirement from politics.
Never one of his party's big hitters, arguably the most notable aspect of Mr Simpson's departure is the feverish speculation about his potential successor.
With the cushion of an 8,000 majority, Upper Bann is regarded as a reasonably safe seat for the DUP.
Within minutes of Mr Simpson stating his intention not to contest next month's election, his party leader Arlene Foster was being mooted as a potential replacement.
Notably, much of this speculation was coming from outside the party and the DUP has been quick to point out that Mrs Foster has previously stated that she has no desire to be an MP.
The former first minister is a committed devolutionist and to put her name forward would be a clear sign that she thinks Stormont isn't coming back.
While the restoration of the institutions may be some way off, the DUP leader is highly unlikely to throw in the towel so soon.
Also linked was Diane Dodds, who as things currently stand will be unemployed come January 31 when Brexit is scheduled to end her decade-long tenure as an MEP.
Mrs Dodds lives in Banbridge, in the heart of the constituency, and is a seasoned politician with an established profile. If she wanted the job, then it's likely she'd get it.
But while she may be popular among the rank and file, the imposition of the deputy leader's wife ahead of the constituency's two DUP MLAs could fuel a degree of resentment.
The Stormont representatives are Carla Lockhart and Jonathan Buckley, and on paper the former would be favourite.
However, Ms Lockhart has a young family and may feel that travelling back and forth to Westminster each week at this stage of her life is too much of commitment.
If Mr Buckley ends up standing and winning on December 12, the DUP could find itself once again without any female representatives at Westminster – not an especially edifying state of affairs in the 21st century.
