
# Oakland Raiders Have Serious Hope At Mid-Way Point

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bill Williamson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/billwilliamson/2019/11/04/oakland-raiders-have-serious-hope-at-mid-way-point/)

 If the Oakland Raiders advance to the AFC playoffs, Week 9 may be looked at as the turning point.  In their first game in Oakland in seven weeks, the Raiders ended a two-game losing streak by surviving, a 31-24, victory over the pesky Detroit Lions, foiling a late Matthew Stafford rally in the end zone on fourth down in the final seconds.
 The victory pushed the Raiders’ record to 4-4 at midseason. There is a major difference between being 4-4 and 3-5 at the mid-way point.
 The Raiders are very hopeful going into the final games of the season as they already have as many wins as they did in 2018, the first year back for $100 million man, Jon Gruden.
 The following is a look what the Raiders have done in the first half of the season and what to expect moving ahead:
  The reason why the Raiders have won four games: Oakland has a clear formula when they win games. Quarterback Derek Carr makes timely plays. Rookie running back Josh Jacobs dominates and the defense comes up with timely turnovers. When that happens, Oakland is hard to beat.  
The reason why the Raiders have lost four games: The defense isn’t up to par. It gives up way too many chunk plays and gets decimated by good quarterback play.
The rookie class: Jacobs is a leading candidate for the NFL Offensive Rookie of the Year. The running back from Alabama has already broken the franchise rookie rushing yardage record that was led by Pro Football Hall of Fame running back Marcus Allen. Oakland had three first-round picks. The first, No. 4 overall pick, defensive end Clellin Ferrell, has started very slowly. The other, safety, Johnathan Abram, the No. 27 overall pick, played well in the season opener, but was lost for the season in that game with a shoulder injury, However, others in the rookie last class have shined, including slot receiver Hunter Renfrow, tight end Foster Moreau and defensive end Maxx Crosby. These rookies appear to be foundation players who are helping the cause right away.
The playoff picture: There are six teams ahead of Oakland in the AFC playoff picture at this point. Pittsburgh is also 4-4. Thus, Oakland is lurking just outside the playoff mix with half the season to go. The Raiders will certainly take that, considering they had the third toughest schedule in the NFL through the first seven games of the season. And that they played five straight games away from Oakland.
Biggest reason for hope: The schedule gets very easy. The Raiders have the third easiest remaining schedule in the NFL. The Kansas City Chiefs are the only team remaining on Oakland’s schedule that has a winning record. The Raiders can real off some victories in the second half.
The key to the rest of the season: The Raiders can’t kick games against the likes of the Cincinnati Bengals, New York Jets and the Denver Broncos in the second half. The Raiders have to take care of their business. Health on offense is key and the defense has to stop up more often. If these things happen, Oakland could make the playoffs.
