
# 1MDB-Tanore Trial Day 32:Najib Razak will have to go to another court today

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:36+00:00**

Author: **Hafiz Yatim**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/1mdbtanore-trial-day-32najib-razak-will-have-go-another-court-today)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 7) : Former premier Datuk Seri Najib Razak will have to go to another court today before his 1Malaysia Development Bhd (1MDB) trial which is entering into its 32nd day today.
This follows the Pekan MP having to be with former 1MDB CEO Arul Kanda Kandasamy, both of whom are jointly charged with audit tampering of the 1MDB accounts, before High Court judge Justice Mohamad Zaini Mazlan.
The trial to this case is scheduled to begin on Nov 18 which means the former premier have three hearings which he have to face and yet to be concluded if the possibility of his defence being called in the SRC International Sdn Bhd trial on Monday is taken into consideration.
It remains to be seen whether Justice Zaini would decide to vacate his trial dates to give priority to the 1MDB trial as the trial judge in the SRC International case, Justice Mohd Nazlan Mohd Ghazali had already fixed trial dates beginning Dec 3 should defence be called.
1MDB's former CEO Datuk Shahrol Azral Ibrahim Halmi will continue to give his testimony today where he left off, namely focussing on raising funds for the Tun Razak exchange or the Kuala Lumpur International Financial District Project (KLFID).
Shahrol also testified and agreed with Najib's lead counsel Tan Sri Muhammad Shafee Abdullah that PetroSaudi International's Tareq Obaid and Patrick Mahony may have conspired to deceive Najib in getting 1MDB funds.
This follows an email exchange between both of them dated August 7, 2010.
Although Shahrol admitted he was not privy to the exchanges he did not discount the possibility based on point four that stipulates :-
On the US$1 billion funding, the thing to tell the PM is that we have some very good investment prospects pending and that we really need the funds quickly. The constant broken promises and delays have hurt our business hugely and cost us (I think saying delays have cost us helps us because we can then blame them for the losses later). I wouldn't discuss the US$500 million write-off with the PM or any losses at this point (this is Jho’s thoughts only for now but it makes sense) because I think the PM thinks we are making good investments. So I think we promote the JV and all the great things we can do with it but make it clear we need the funds soon and that delays are costing us -therefore we would urge the PM to do everything in his power to make sure we have the full US$1b as soon as possible.”
On Tuesday, Shahrol also revealed that PSI is said to owe 1MDB US$2.2billion in failed joint venture as off 2015.
The Edge is reporting the proceedings of the 1MDB-Tanore triallive.

        
          Users of The Edge Markets app may tap here to access the live report.
        
      
