
# 20 Companies Pledge Support for the Hack_Right Program

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:34:35+00:00**

Author: **Ionut Ilascu**

Original: [BleepingComputer](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/20-companies-pledge-support-for-the-hack-right-program/)

The Hack_Right program aiming to help young hackers avoid cybercrime and use their skills for good has received a pledge of support from about 20 companies.
The program is intended for young individuals that received a conviction for cybercriminal activity for the first time. It is an alternative to the traditional punishment process or an addition to it.
The experiment started in 2018 and is an initiative of the police in the Netherlands and the U.K. It focuses on individuals aged 12 to 23. It is structured on four modules (recovery, training, coaching, alternative) tailored for each individual to help them stay on the good side of the law.
At the 'Partners in Crime' meeting in Woerden, the Netherlands, close to 20 companies signed a letter of intent to participate in the program.
The list includes big names from various sectors. Among them are cybersecurity companies like Fox-IT, Secura, Qbit, Northwave, S-unit, Access42, DIVD, and Zerocopter.
Organizations in the financial sector like de Volksbank, ING, Deloitte, ABN-Amro, Rabobank, and Summito showed their support as well as companies in other fields of activity (telecommunications services, managed services)
In the Netherlands, the Hack_Right pilot program was developed with the involvement of the Dutch Police, Probation Service, Child Protection Board, and the Public Prosecution Service.
According to data from the Public Prosecution Service, about 70 individuals between 12 and 23 are arrested each year for a cybercrime-related offense. However, the figure is likely higher as not all young cybercrime offenders are caught.
At this moment, the program has about 20 participants, which makes an average of 10 people each year, says Floor Jansen of the High Tech Crime Team of the National Police Unit.
"About ten a year, but there is room within Hack_Right for more young people who have committed a cybercrime for the first time and want to learn from their mistakes."
The age interval for young offenders to be eligible to enter the Hack_Right program has been set because this is the time when behavioral change is most likely to be successful.
The path of someone involved deeply in cybercriminal activities is more difficult to correct, says Jansen.
In the U.K., the average age of a cybercriminal is 19, so the potential for recidivism is low. When exposed to consequences, teenagers typically have a positive response to interventions like the Hack_Right initiative.
