
# Health service cannot be allowed to lag behind any further

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/opinion/leadingarticle/2019/11/05/news/health-service-cannot-be-allowed-to-lag-behind-any-further-1756502/)

While the forthcoming general election will inevitably focus on Brexit, we must not overlook the fact that there are other serious issues that require urgent political attention in Northern Ireland.
School budgets, infrastructure spending and welfare reform mitigations are just some of the major problems that need a strategic approach and ministerial direction.
Then, of course, there is health, which is shaping up to be a battleground issue for Jeremy Corbyn and Boris Johnson in the coming weeks.
While there are clear difficulties being experienced in parts of the NHS in Britain, the harsh reality is that the situation in Northern Ireland is much worse.
This point was confirmed at the weekend by a keynote report by the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee which spelled out the inescapable fact that we are lagging behind in a number of areas.
Chair Simon Hoare said: ''An approach to funding that simply keeps things ticking over, and an absence of over-arching strategy in key areas, has left services at breaking point and this situation must end as soon as possible.''
The committee notes that the current arrangement of successive one-year budgets was impeding planning and investment and called for a longer term funding settlement to sustain the sort of transformation that is needed in the north's healthcare system.
It is clear from this report that while the absence of an assembly and executive is holding up progress on necessary change, it is important that measures are put in place to prevent us falling further behind.
Recommendations are made in relation to certain specialties, including child and adolescent mental health services and the community pharmacy network, where it is acknowledged there are funding gaps that need to be closed.
The vital role of social care also received special mention, saying that the workforce delivering important services 'is undervalued and in need of recognition.'
The report points to disparities in wages, terms and conditions which have led to high levels of churn for independent providers and urges that the value of social care needs to be raised across the board.
This is a wide-ranging document which has taken on board evidence from organisations and senior figures dealing with the complex and challenging world of health and social care in the north.
The question is what the government does now to ease the pressure on a system that is said to be at 'breaking point.'
