
# Stable OxygenOS 10 based on Android 10 rolls out for the OnePlus 6/6T

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:19:00+00:00**

Author: **Mishaal Rahman**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/oneplus-6-oneplus-6t-stable-oxygenos-10-android-10/)


        Update 1 (11/4/19 @ 5:20 PM ET): The update is now rolling out for the OnePlus 6, and we have the download link.
      
At the OnePlus 7T Pro launch event, OnePlus announced its Android 10 update roadmap for its 2017 and 2018 smartphones. OnePlus said an Android 10-based OxygenOS 10 Open Beta would roll out later that month, and 9 days later, that indeed happened. The company said the stable update would roll out sometime in November, and on the first day of the new month, the stable update is already rolling out.
OnePlus 6 Forums ||| OnePlus 6T Forums
Multiple users located throughout Europe have reported receiving the update tonight on Reddit and the XDA Forums. Most users getting the update report having the OnePlus 6T, but our friends from the Oxygen Updater team can confirm the update is slowly rolling out for the OnePlus 6 as well.
Here’s the changelog:

            System
          

            Full-Screen Gestures
          

            Game Space
          

            Smart display
          

            Message
          
Not mentioned in the changelog is the security patch level. The update brings the October 2019 security patches while the previous stable update had the August 2019 security patch level.
So far, the OnePlus 7 and OnePlus 7 Pro have received updates to Android 10, while the OnePlus 7T and 7T Pro launched with the latest version. The update is planned to roll out in Q1 2020 for the OnePlus 7 Pro 5G and Q2 2020 for the OnePlus 5/5T.
You can download the full OTA zip file for each device from the links below.
Full OTA – OnePlus 6 ||| Full OTA – OnePlus 6T
Users in the comments report that flashing this update works on T-Mobile OnePlus 6T units that have been converted to run international software.

        Thanks to XDA Senior Member Some_Random_Username from the Oxygen Updater team for the download links!
      
