
# 'Greatest' Rugby World Cup provides a springboard for growth

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:02:06+00:00**

Author: **Paul Rees**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/03/greatest-rugby-world-cup-provides-a-springboard-for-growth)


        World Rugby hopes the success of the tournament in Japan will inspire countries from outside the traditional strongholds
      
The hosts for the 2027 and 2031 Rugby World Cups will be decided at the same time with the organisers hoping that the success of the tournament in Japan will inspire countries from outside the traditional strongholds, such as the United States, to bid.
The process will start in November next year and while South Africa (which has not staged the event since 1995) Australia and England will be potential bidders, with World Rugby looking for one of the tournaments to guarantee it a bumper profit, the organisers see commercial growth in North and South America.
“Japan 2019 will be remembered as probably the greatest World Cup,” said the World Rugby chairman, Sir Bill Beaumont, and not just because the expected operational profit for his organisation is expected to be a record £165m, exceeding the £150m generated in England four years ago.
“We’ve broken records at every level: attendance, fanzones, broadcast, digital, and social media,” Beaumont said. “But really this is only part of the story. The success of this tournament has been personified by the warmth and passion of the Japanese people. There has been a lot of talk about the future of the Brave Blossoms and we will do everything in our power to support them, and all emerging teams, in getting regular access to high level competitions.
“The World Rugby council has approved the implementation of a dual host selection process for 2027 and 2031. It will enable us to select an optimal combination of hosts rather like what we achieved when awarding the 2015 and this year’s tournaments at the same time.”
World Rugby will consider raising the number of teams taking part from 2027 from 20 to 24. “We are looking at a number of formats,” said Alan Gilpin, the World Cup’s chief operating officer, who also reported that no player had failed a drugs test in Japan.
“We would look at how to make the next four competitive and we have high performance programmes with a number of unions. This was the fairest World Cup in terms of rest periods for all the teams, but that is something else we are looking at going forward but we do not want to exceed the six-week period the tournament is played over because it is a big window and to go beyond it would be challenging.”
