
# Bershka & Nat Geo's New Collab Is Giving Off All The David Attenborough Vibes

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:52:46+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/the-bershka-x-national-geographic-collection-is-cute-eco-friendly-affordable-19300826)

Sustainable fashion collections sometimes have to be taken with a pinch of salt. But Bershka's National Geographic collaboration proves that some brands are really committing to a more eco-friendly way of working.
The 9-piece outdoor collection features gorgeous National Geographic wildlife photography (including a cute red panda) on super cosy designs like puffer coats and hoodies. Aiming to encourage a deeper appreciation of the natural world, it also features a whole host of sustainable fabrics.
Each design comes with Bershka's Join Life label: a commitment to make the fashion industry more environmentally-friendly. For example, puffer coats are made with 100% recycled polyester padding and T-shirts feature 100% ecologically grown cotton. Hoodies are comprised of at least 65% ecologically grown cotton while the backpack includes a minimum of 50% recycled polyester.
Bershka has made several other dated commitments. In 2020, it promises to get rid of all plastic bags and to make all its stores eco-efficient (saving up to 20% more energy and 40% more water). The brand's designers will also be trained to ensure that items are easily recyclable. By 2023, all single-use packaging will be eliminated and, by 2025, all cotton and linen will be sustainable and all polyester will be recycled.
With prices starting from just £15.99, the only thing that's missing from this collection is a bigger size range. (Currently, womenswear pieces range from a UK size 6 to 12.) But if you make some noise, your wishes may well be heard. In the meantime, here's every piece you can buy.

        National Geographic Puffer Jacket£79.99|BershkaShowcasing a beautiful (yet broken) glacier backdrop, this vibrant puffer jacket comes with a high collar to beat the chill. Available in size XS to L; UK size 6 to 12.Buy now
      

        National Geographic Panda T-Shirt£15.99|BershkaMade from 100% ecologically grown cotton, this cropped tee will make the most adorable addition to your winter wardrobe. Available in size XS to L; UK size 6 to 12.Buy now
      

        National Geographic Sweatshirt£29.99|BershkaBudding explorers, this cosy jumper's one for you. Available in size S to L.Buy now
      

        National Geographic Belt Bag£25.99|BershkaStore all your essentials in this mountainous bum bag.Buy now
      

        National Geographic Puffer Jacket£89.99|BershkaThe same mountain landscape covers this hooded puffer coat. Available in size S to L.Buy now
      

        National Geographic Sweatshirt£29.99|BershkaFor a dreamier vibe, opt for this pastel-coloured hoodie. Available in size S to L; UK size 8 to 12.Buy now
      

        National Geographic Wolf T-Shirt£15.99|BershkaAnother eco-friendly tee features the stunning image of a lone wolf. Available in size XS to XL. Buy now
      

        National Geographic Backpack£45.99|BershkaThis colourful backpack will make sustainable travelling a breeze. Buy now
      

        National Geographic Hoodie£29.99|BershkaIf black's your favourite colour, try this logo hoodie on for size. Available in size XS to XL. Buy now
      
