
# The Irishman: Soundtrack released for new Martin Scorsese film

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:09:44+00:00**

Author: **Jacob Stolworthy**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/films/news/the-irishman-soundtrack-listen-songs-tracklist-robert-de-niro-al-pacino-release-date-netflix-a9183906.html)

Martin Scorsese has compiled yet another outstanding soundtrack for his new mob drama The Irishman.
The director’s best reviewed film since Taxi Driver follows real-life Mafia hitman Frank Sheeran (Robert De Niro) across several decades of his life, and takes in his experiences with labour union teamster Jimmy Hoffa (Al Pacino) and crime boss Russell Bufalino (Joe Pesci).
As is expected when it comes to Scorsese films, the soundtrack for the new film – which is available to listen to on YouTube – is just as impressive as the ones for Mean Streets and Goodfellas.
The Five Satins song “In the Still of the Night” heads up the soundtrack alongside “Melancholy Serenade” by Jackie Gleason and the original theme that’s been composed by The Band’s Robbie Robertson.
Find a full list of songs featured in the film below.

        Robbie Robertson – "Theme for the Irishman"
      

        Muddy Waters – "Mannish Boy"
      

        The Five Satins – "In the Still of the Night"
      

        Glenn Miller & His Orchestra – "Tuxedo Junction"
      
Smiley Lewis – "I Hear You Knockin'"

        Donnie Elbert – "Have I Sinned"
      

        Marty Robbins & Ray Conniff – "A White Sport Coat (And a Pink Carnation)"
      

        Eddie Heywood – "Canadian Sunset"
      

        Bill Doggett – "Honky Tonk, Pt 1"
      

        Jackie Gleason – "Melancholy Serenade"
      
Listen to the soundtrack here.
Production began on the filmmaker’s long-gestating mob drama in 2016 with lucrative rights picked up at Cannes Film Festival. Netflix later acquired worldwide rights to the film for a reported $105m setting a budget of $125m.
Due to the de-ageing technology required to make the central characters look younger, the film ended up costing $160m.
Based on Charles Brandt’s book I Heard You Paint Houses, The Irishman marks the ninth collaboration between De Niro and Scorsese. It’s the first time Pacino has worked with the director.
The Irishman will be released in selected UK cinemas on 8 November, before arriving on Netflix on 27 November.
