
# Logan Paul plans to produce Conor McGregor-style performance against KSI

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:29:05+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/logan-paul-plans-produce-conor-20802826)

Logan Paul wants to emulate Conor McGregor and replicate the UFC star's win over Jose Aldo.
Paul takes on YouTube rival KSI in Los Angeles on Saturday in a rematch of their draw in Manchester last year.
The feuding pair have turned professional for the sequel and will ditch the headguards and pull on 10oz gloves.
And Paul believes a performance similar to McGregor's 13-second KO of Aldo in 2015 will send his stock through the roof.
"There’s so much on the line between me and KSI," he said. "There is so much on the line. Egos, subscribers, the crown of 'The YouTube King'.
"The last match was a draw. If the W is secured in a monumental way, something similar to when Conor McGregor knocked out Jose Aldo, if something like that happens, it is going to be long-lasting form of stardom.
"There is a stigma that comes along with being an internet star – a YouTuber, an influencer. The narrative of the first fight was that there’s these two YouTubers boxing and now it’s two YouTubers slash professional boxers fighting.
"But I think that boxing helps get rid of that stigma. People look at you in a different way when you get inside these ropes and put it all on the line.”
Paul and KSI have both recruited star-studded teams for their rematch with Paul being trained by former heavyweight world champion Shannon Briggs.
And he added: “The only problem is that the fight isn’t tonight. I’ve been locked in camp for two and a half months. I haven’t taken a day off for the last year and a half since our last fight.
"That draw left a nasty taste in my mouth. There is a lot of regimented hard work you have to put in to become a fighter and few people are willing to do it.
"This is such a hard grueling sport. This is a big fight and it’s the biggest event of my life so there’s no reason that I won’t go as hard as I possibly can every day.
"Boxing has changed my life and I haven’t even been doing it that long. We call training camp ‘The No Fun Club.’ We aren’t allowed to have fun. We are locked down and it is intense. We have a very routine-based camp.”
