
# Starting XI: Chippa v Sundowns

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:02:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/match-reports/telkom-knockout-quarter-final-starting-xi-chippa-united-v-mamelodi-sundowns-03-november-2019/666628)


        Telkom Knockout
      
Teams: Chippa United v Mamelodi Sundowns
Date: 03 November 2019
Venue: Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium
Mamelodi Sundowns will be wary of a cup upset when visit Chippa United in the Telkom Knockout quarter-finals on Sunday afternoon at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium.
The match is scheduled to get underway at 15h00.
The Brazilians got to this stage of the tournament after hammering AmaZulu 5-0 in the first round, but they went on to lose 2-0 to Kaizer Chiefs in the league last weekend.
Sundowns have won three League Cup titles in their history, the last of which was in 2015 after beating Steve Komphela's Chiefs 3-1 in the final. Last season, they reached the quarter-finals of this tournament but they were knocked out by eventual winners Baroka FC.
Meanwhile, the Chilli Boys won their first game of the season by knocking out Bloemfontein Celtic 1-0 in the first round clash in Norman Mapeza's first game in charge of the club.
The men from Port Elizabeth weren't able to build on that victory after they suffered a 2-0 to Highlands Park in Tembisa.
These two sides have already met in the Absa Premiership this season, with Chippa netting in the dying stages to secure a 1-1 draw at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      

        Here's how they line up:
      
Chippa: 30. Tignyemb, 47. Nsabiyumva, 22. Modisane, 20. K.Moyo, 14. E. Moyo, 33. Mahola, 2. Maselesa, 11. Maziya, 40. Twala, 12. Malepe, 15. Kwem.
Subs: 34. Mothwa, 9. R.Manzini, 19. L.Manzini, 23. Reid, 32. Lentjies, 13. Maphangule, 21. Maphanga.
Sundowns: 14. Onyango, 27. Morena, 2. Madisha, 5. Lebusa, 4. Langerman, 13. Mabunda, 8. Kekana, 11. Vilakazi, 10. Sirino, 7. Meza, 9. Affonso.
Subs: 30. Pieterse, 16. Ngcongca, 15. Jali, 17. Mahlambi, 7. Lakay, 40. Coetzee, 21. Mkhulise.
