
# Save $200 On The 75-inch Hisense Roku 4K TV

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:02:30+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-hisense-r7e-roku-tv-sale-black-friday.html)

Today, Best Buy is discounting the 75-inch Hisense R7E Roku TV, and it is now $200 off. That brings it down to just $699.
This is likely the lowest we'll see it this year, as TVs generally are at their lowest prices ahead of Black Friday. The TVs that are discounted on Black Friday are usually ones that no one really wants.
This TV from Hisense is a large, Roku-powered TV. Which means that you won't need to worry about having to buy a set-top box to use the TV. With Roku inside, you're going to get all sorts of great apps and games on this TV. That includes Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Google Play Movies & TV, YouTube, Sling TV and so much more. In fact, Roku has over half a million movies and TV shows available on its platform.
Advertisement
The display on this TV is pretty good. Now it's not as good as a QLED or OLED TV, but you'll still enjoy it. Unfortunately, there is no support for Dolby Vision on this one, but there is HDR. There's support for HDR+, HDR10 and HLG standards, which is going to give you a really good experience, especially when watching content that is shot in HDR quality.
Audio on this one is actually pretty decent. We're looking at two 15W speakers inside that will offer up some deep bass and some crisp mids and highs. It is also powered by DTS Studio Sounds, so you're going to enjoy the audio here. And you won't feel the need to add a sound bar to your TV, which is always a cool thing.
You can pick up the 75-inch Hisense R7E Roku 4K TV from Best Buy by clicking here. But you'd better hurry as this price won't be around for long, and may go out of stock soon.
Advertisement

        75-inch Hisense R7E Roku 4K TV - Best Buy - $699
      
