
# Nunn has 28 points, Heat beat Hawks for 2nd time in 3 days

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **The Associated Press**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/1/nunn-has-28-points-heat-beat-hawks-for-2nd-time-in/)

ATLANTA (AP) - Kendrick Nunn scored a career-high 28 points to add to his record-setting start and the Miami Heat beat the Atlanta Hawks for the second time in three days, 106-97 on Thursday night.
Nunn has 112 in his first five games, the most by an undrafted player in NBA history. Connie Hawkins of the Phoenix Suns scored 105 points in his first five games of the 1969-70 season.
Jabari Parker led Atlanta with 23 points. Hawks point guard Trae Young sat out because of a sprained right ankle.
PELICANS 122, NUGGETS 107
NEW ORLEANS (AP) - Jahlil Okafor scored 26 points, Brandon Ingram added 25 and New Orleans beat Denver for itsr first victory in five games this season.
Ingram has scored at least 22 points in each of his first five games for New Orleans after coming over from the Los Angeles Lakers.
Michael Porter Jr. led the Nuggets with 15 points in his NBA debut.
CLIPPERS 103, SPURS 97
LOS ANGELES (AP) - Kawhi Leonard scored 38 points, Montrezl Harrell added 24 and Los Angeles dealt San Antonio its first loss of the season.
Leonard also grabbed 12 rebounds for his first points-rebounds, double-double this season. It is also Leonard’s first double-double in three meetings against the Spurs, where he played seven seasons (2011-18).
The game was close for the first 28 minutes, before the Clippers took control with a 9-1 run to take a 64-55 lead with 6:55 remaining in the third quarter. Leonard - who had 25 points in the second half - scored five of his 10 third-quarter points during the rally, including a dunk after a steal of DeMar DeRozan at midcourt.
DeRozan led San Antonio with 29 points and Derrick White added 20.
More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
