
# WBBL opportunities and depth of talent pool set Australian women's cricket apart

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:00:26+00:00**

Author: **Geoff Lemon**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/07/wbbl-opportunities-and-depth-of-talent-pool-set-australian-womens-cricket-apart)


        With a platform to showcase emerging players such Phoebe Litchfield, rivals are struggling to keep pace
      
There was a buzz this season when Phoebe Litchfield started her Big Bash career. A 16-year-old playing a ramp shot for four over the wicketkeeper’s head a few balls into her batting debut. The way she flayed boundaries from Australian national representatives Ash Gardner and Erin Burns. She made 26 that day, then doubled it next game in a big run chase for the Sydney Thunder.
Martina Hingis was 16 when she won Wimbledon, Sachin Tendulkar was 16 on Test debut, Mohammad Ashraful was 16 for Bangladesh’s first Test century, and 16 was one of the many ages that Shahid Afridi could have been when he made the then-fastest ODI hundred from 37 balls.
Sport, music, writing, art: audiences love prodigies. There’s a particular thrill to seeing someone perform at a level that seemingly should be beyond them; they can’t yet legally buy a tequila shot but here they are rifling a forehand winner or doing a line at an Oscars after-party. Our hearts swell with vicarious pride. It’s hard though for wunderkinder as grow older, and the precociousness that set them apart evaporates as their contemporaries catch up. Hingis retired aged 22, Ashraful never made good on his promise and was eventually banned for corruption.
The point about Litchfield was that another huge talent is on the way for Australian cricket. Add her to the list. The women’s game in this country has burgeoned in the past five years, since the WBBL provided a forum for players and the pay deal of 2017 provided professional contracts. The success is especially evident in the make-up of national squads.
The movement is most apparent in comparison with England, the only other national with fully professional women’s contracts. For a long time both line-ups had been very static, with only a handful of top-line players available for selection. The same names were picked regardless of recent results. There was little competition for the best talent. By 2016 Australia started bringing in a few WBBL players ahead of that year’s T20 World Cup, but accelerated that change after losing the final. England moved on a couple of older players after a semi-final collapse, but changed very little from then on.
If you look at 50-over cricket, still the premium format of the women’s international game, England debuted six players from 2016 to today. Australia debuted 14.
England’s Beth Langston, Alice Davidson-Richards, Katie George and Bryony Smith have barely played: eight matches between the five of them. Alex Hartley played 28 but this year lost her national contract this year, while only fellow left-arm spinner Sophie Ecclestone has played consistently since her debut.
