
# The Authentic Advocate, A Warrior For All Women

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Xian Horn**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/xianhorn/2019/11/01/the-authentic-advocate-a-warrior-for-all-women/)

Dr. Lori Sokol and I met in 2012, seated next to each other on a long, chartered bus ride from Manhattan to Brooklyn’s then United Cerebral Palsy of New York City (or UCP of NYC) now called ADAPT Community Network and bonded instantly. Our conversation was unique and memorable - as we cut past pleasantries - and spent most of the ride sharing our values: ideals of beauty, sisterhood, access, equality, and equity.
It was then that I saw Lori’s passion for human rights as well as for amplifying the stories and rights of women globally (especially those stories and lives so often suppressed).
Lori Sokol, Ph. D., is now the Executive Director and Editor-in-Chief of Women's eNews. She was also the host of the weekly radio show, Women's eNews Live, on 1490 AM WGCH, where she invited experts to discuss the most crucial issues affecting women and girls around the world. It’s with this consciousness that Women’s eNews covers issues such as sexual harassment, human trafficking, and with the 2020 Election in focus, has created space for a new series called The Ovary Office. She says about the series:

        “Never in American political history have so many women declared their candidacies for the Democratic nomination for President. Yet, their male counterparts are amassing about 80% of mainstream media coverage, thus drowning out the female candidates' platforms and their viability as presidential candidates. Through the launch of the regular series, The Ovary Office, created by author and activist Amy Ferris for Women's eNews, the organization aims to turn this narrative on its head by counterbalancing this patriarchal slant, and provide women candidates running for all levels of office their due.”
      
Dr. Lori Sokol, quite like her role models, is a peace-seeking warrior; at the core of that ‘fighter’ instinct is her love for humanity and for those overlooked or ostracized. She is a fierce, feminist advocate fueled by compassion.
To understand Lori’s work on a deeper level, we must understand how she grew up. She was named after the lead actress in the 1950’s film How to Marry a Millionaire. The name reflected her mother’s hope for Lori to “marry well.” Yet, Lori herself always yearned to be the primary breadwinner instead. 
“It was very difficult for me – growing up in this environment where I was told girls were supposed to be a certain way, and I was specifically told by my mother don’t do anything to make the men in your life look bad.” There was a painful double standard in Lori’s home between the men and women of her family; there was also a lot of needless emphasis on appearance.
She says: “We were squashed for not seeming perfect on the outside.” 
But her experiences with suppression at home fed a determination within her:

        “It was clear from an early age that I would want to fight for other girls who were experiencing what I had been experiencing. I was stifled for wanting to just be myself.” 
      
This is why Lori sought and found other role models that resonated with her values. Early on, Ms. Magazine was a safe haven for the feminist ideals that fuel her work today.  
“That magazine spoke to me. And I decided to dedicate my career to publishing because of that. The beauty of words, and how they can change lives. That’s what I have chosen for my career.”
Dr. Sokol was previously the Founder and President of Sokol Media, Inc., a publisher of business magazines that advocated for diversity, inclusion and sustainability in the workplace. Through her company, she launched a real estate development magazine after 9/11 called NY Residential, a sustainability-focused magazine called Green Matters, and a social justice magazine called Work/Life Matters, which advocated for diversity in the workplace.
“My childhood... was not only sexist, but also violent, I was everyone’s punching bag; my parents, my brother, it was really tough, but I survived, and not only did I survive, I triumphed. I think [that survival] has a lot to do with my passion to empower other women and girls.”
Lori’s life now is a righteous rebellion against anything that suppresses a woman’s freedom and authenticity. 
“The most important quality a person can have is authenticity. Sometimes it takes us decades to become authentic, to have the courage to be who you were originally meant to be.” It took Lori time to become the woman she is today because she says there were “so many barriers growing up...even into my twenties.” 
She truly believes that, “No one should live a life which goes against who they really are.” 
Perhaps this is why Sokol says one of her favorite quotations is: “It’s never too late to be what you might have been.” Though family and societal norms tried to suppress her, Lori has only grown stronger through her experiences. This is why another quotation resonates with her so deeply:
“They tried to bury me, but they didn’t know I was a seed.” 
She adds that: “[Growth] is a life-long process.” 
One of Lori’s greatest achievements that might not be as publicly celebrated, but many close to her have the opportunity to witness is her role as a mother. Given the difficulties she had with her own parents, one marvels at her loving relationship with her children, Rebecca and Jason Greenberg. Rebecca shares her mother’s passion for journalism; she is currently producing stories for NY1 and powerhouse anchor, Cheryl Wills.
When discussing her children’s upbringing, she poses a question many abused or misunderstood children have had to ask themselves when it’s time to raise families of their own:
“Where do you learn to be different [from your parents]?” There might not have been a manual to follow but Lori says she always asks herself. “If I were in this situation, how would I have wanted my mom to respond?” Putting herself in her children’s shoes has helped to foster empathy rather than judgment. 
Lori just got her first tattoo (a wing). Her daughter has a matching wing. The wing is actually a falcon’s wing, because Sokol means Falcon in Russian. Lori glows when speaking of her children:
“My most important accomplishment is being their mother.” What is evident and remarkable is the great respect Sokol has for her children as autonomous beings: “We don’t own our children. I think it is very important for parents to know that. As soon as a child is born, they are separate.”
 “We have to try to be the best we can be and that requires having the courage to dig deep into ourselves and work on resolving those issues that may still interfere with having the life that we want.”
How does Lori build the life she wants? 
“I’ve learned to trust my instincts. Although I like challenges, and I like risk, it’s calculated risk.” 
She also doesn’t really believe in missteps:
“Even when you are working on something that you feel, well, it may have been a waste, why did I do that? ...it all contributes to who you are.”
And it’s because of her respect for personhood that she wants to represent others who are otherwise ignored:
“We [at Women’s eNews] give a voice to women and girls who would otherwise not have one.” This journalistic pursuit spans the globe and exposes some of the horrific things women and girls are experiencing that are rarely, if ever, reported on such as child marriage, sex trafficking and Female Genital Mutilation. With these issues in view, it’s not an exaggeration to say, as Dr. Sokol does, that it’s about “saving women’s lives through journalism.” Lori and Women’s eNews, as a platform, makes visceral and personal what many other outlets may gloss over out of fear of discomfort:
 “When you put a face and a name to these girls that hits home. I don’t want them just to be numbers.” She is living according to another favorite quotation: “Be the woman you needed as a girl.”
For her, representing girls and women is not simply a job:
“Gender equality – it’s not just my work, it’s my life.” 
She adds with service in mind: “It’s not about me, it’s about the work we do to help others.”
In this vein, she not only supports women and girls in marginalized spaces, but Lori Sokol also celebrates other leaders; Women’s eNews’ annual 21 Leaders for the 21st Century Awards Gala honors women leaders and a few great men each year. She also named an award for our friend and media magnate, Loreen Arbus, whom she calls “a passionate advocate for people with disabilities.” This award traditionally goes to other advocates for people with disabilities, such as past honorees, Tari Hartman Squire and Jd Michaels of Lights! Camera! Access!
For all Dr. Lori Sokol has accomplished in the more than 30 year career, she’s not by any means finished. Sokol says:
“I feel like my best years are yet to come. In many ways, I’m really just getting started.” In August 2020, Lori Sokol will publish her second book, She Is Me: How Women Will Save The World, which carry thirty-five interviews with pioneers for gender equality who have successfully devoted their work, and their lives, toward creating a world of peace for all people, as well as for the future well-bring of our planet. 
In this book, Lori will highlight “pioneering, outstanding women of achievement” all of whom believe in gender equality. The first five interviews spotlight the women who, through their life’s work and activism, inspired the book. Through this interview anthology and memoir, we will have the opportunity to re-examine qualities seen as “soft” or “attributes we are conditioned to see as feminine, as being truly powerful and effective.” She names a few such qualities: “compassion, empathy, caring, introspection” and says “we are conditioned that boys should not show [many of] these qualities but we all have the capacity.” She cites Gandhi and Martin Luther King as examples of men who exhibited these “soft” or “feminine” peace-making qualities with grace. She says, “We need to change the way we see the [loving] qualities that all people possess regardless of gender, to save this world from the tremendous loss of lives through war, weaponry, and hatred.”
Dr. Lori Sokol is one of the greatest examples that regardless of one’s upbringing, one can overcome anything, empower others, and pave their own legacy. Lori’s childhood abuse and experience with suppression inspired her contemporary, tenacious, impassioned leadership. Lori Sokol has become the change she wants to see and, as a result, she is a warrior woman, and the proactive role model we all need.
