
# A Plastic Surgeon Uses the Golden Ratio to Find Celebrities With Perfect Faces, and Here Are His Top 10

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/wonder-curiosities/a-plastic-surgeon-uses-the-golden-ratio-to-find-celebrities-with-perfect-faces-and-here-are-his-top-10-794640/)

Plastic surgeons may know everything about beauty because they’re the ones who move the world toward “ideal looks” every day. But even they can’t name the most attractive women (because all our opinions are pretty subjective). That’s why Dr. Julian De Silva decided to rely on science and become more precise based on an ancient Greek formula of beauty. Let’s look at the most famous women that you scientifically can’t drag your gaze away from.
We at Bright Side want to check if the “Golden Ratio” is still relevant in today’s world. Let’s discuss it afterward.
At first glance it seems like the Golden Ratio is only a number, but it might be the secret to measuring beauty. Many Renaissance sculptors and artists, like Da Vinci, Michelangelo, and Raphael used it to achieve balance and harmony in their works. Some people also believe that the most attractive human faces show the Golden Ratio in their proportions.
First of all, the face of a beautiful person should be about 1.6 times longer than it is wide. Second, the distance between the forehead hairline and the bottom of the chin should be divisible into 3 equal parts as it’s shown on the picture above. And, finally, there are some more proportions that may influence our attractiveness — for example, the eye width should be equal to the distance between the eyes.
Dr. Julian De Silva decided to find out which celebrities are closest to the Greek ideal. With the help of computerized mapping techniques, he analyzed several facial points like the shape of the face, lips, eyebrows, and other features, and created the following list.
Do you agree with these results or do you believe that the Golden Ratio is outdated? Who would you rate as the most attractive women? Give us some names.
Preview photo credit AFP/EAST NEWS, bellahadid / Instagram
