
# His Dark Materials UK release date, cast, trailer, plot

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/dark-materials-uk-release-date-17300267)

It's time to cross the barriers to another world.
The seminal fantasy series from acclaimed author Philip Pullman entitled His Dark Materials is finally being brought back to our screens in the form of a gorgeous television series.
Previously adapted with the film The Golden Compass starring Nicole Kidman and Daniel Craig , the series never took off beyond the first entry, leaving fans patiently waiting for the series to be adapted.
But now the moment is finally here, courtesy of HBO, BBC One and New Line Cinema, and it's so close that we can almost taste it!
Here is all you need to know about His Dark Materials.
His Dark Materials will premiere on BBC One on November 3, 2019.
The series will be shown on HBO in the United States on November 4, 2019.

        Dafne Keen as Lyra Belacqua
      
The Logan actress plays the heroine and orphan Lyra who is drawn into a quest with her golden compass, the Alethiometer.

        Ruth Wilson as Marisa Coulter
      
The cool but beautiful representative of the Magisterium who becomes a guardian to Lyra but hides a sinister side.

        James McAvoy as Lord Asriel
      
The enigmatic and controversial explorer is Lyra's uncle.

        Clarke Peters as Doctor Carne
      
The Master at Jordan College and a friend to Lyra.

        Lin-Manuel Miranda as Lee Scoresby
      
A Texan aeronaut and explorer who is an ally to Lyra and friend of the polar bear Iorek Byrnison.

        Ruta Gedmintas as Serafina Pekkala
      
The beautiful and ancient witch comes to Lyra's aid.

        Ariyon Bakare as Lord Boreal
      
An old gentleman and acquaintance of Mrs Coulter with a hidden agenda.

        James Cosmo as Farder Coram
      
A respected and elderly leading member of the Gyptian community, in love with Serafina Pekkala.

        Helen McCrory as Stelmaria
      

         
      
The Peaky Blinders star voices Lord Asriel's daemon.

        Lucian Msamati as John Faa
      
The King of the Gyptians comes to help Lyra in her quest.

        Anne-Marie Duff as Ma Costa
      
Mother of Lyra's friend Billy and a member of the Gyptian community.

        Ian Gelder as Librarian Scholar Charles
      
An academic figure and ally of Doctor Crane.

        Will Keen as Father MacPhail
      
The President of the Consistorial Court of Discipline and a leading figure in the Magisterium.

        Georgina Campbell as Adele Starminster
      
A young journalist investigating Marisa Coulter.

        Mat Fraser as Raymond Van Geritt
      
A member of the Gyptian community.

        Geoff Bell as Jack Verhoeven
      
A member of the Gyptian community.

        Simon Mayonda as Benjamin de Ruyter
      
One of the leading figures of the Gyptian community.

        Omid Djalili as Dr Martin Lanselius
      
The diplomatic Consul of the Witches of the North.

        Archie Barnes as the voice of Pantalaimon
      
Lyra's shape-shifting daemon and closest companion.

        Lewin Lloyd as Roger Parslow
      
Lyra's best friend at Jordan College, a kitchen boy who is kidnapped.

        Daniel Frogson as Tony Costa
      
The older brother of the kidnapped Gyptian boy Billy Costa.

        Tyler Howitt as Billy Costa
      
A young Gyptian boy and friend of Lyra's who is kidnapped.

        Amir Wilson as Will Parry
      
A boy from another world that is vital to Lyra's destiny and will play a bigger role in season 2.

        Andrew Scott as Stanislaus Grumman
      
The Fleabag hot priest will appear in season 2 in a hugely important role.
An all-new trailer has been released for the series.
This new footage also introduces Iorek Byrnison to fans for the new series.
The series is set on a parallel Earth to our own one, where individuals' souls exist outside their body as creatures known as daemons.
With the first season adapting the events of the first novel in the series, Northern Lights (or The Golden Compass in the US), events will depict the orphan Lyra Belacqua searching for answers after her friends are kidnapped by "The Gobblers".
At the same time, Lyra comes into the care of the mysterious Marisa Coulter who has a connection to Lyra's uncle, the controversial explorer Lord Asriel, and the all-powerful and extremely devout Magisterium.
Gifted a sought-after device named an Alethiometer by the Master of Jordan College where she lives, Lyra searches for answers but comes up against powerful enemies and huge revelations.
In a world with polar bear kings, powerful witches, and evil organisations seeking to rule not just one Earth but every Earth across parallel universes, it's sure to be a fantasy adventure to remember.
Yes, HBO has already renewed the series for a second run.
So expect at least the second novel A Subtle Knife to be adapted too.

        His Dark Materials premieres in the UK on BBC One later this year.
      
