
# 'It’s a shame' - West Brom defender determined to impress after Nathan Ferguson suspension

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Suart, https://www.facebook.com/West-Brom-reporter-Paul-Suart-1706553162899720/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/its-shame-west-brom-defender-17212508)

West Bromwich Albion left-back Conor Townsend has never been more desperate to impress after finally breaking into the team.
Opportunity has knocked for Townsend with Kieran Gibbs out injured and his replacement, rookie academy product Nathan Ferguson, serving a three-match suspension.
Their absence paved the way for Townsend’s first league start of the season in the win over Stoke on Monday night when Albion kept only their third clean sheet.
And the 26-year-old has no intention of relinquishing his jersey - not with a trip to hometown club Hull, where he started his career as an eight-year-old, on the immediate horizon.
 
“I have always been waiting for my chance and this is an opportunity now for me,” the former Scunthorpe defender said.
“It’s a shame for Nathan because he’s been brilliant in the team and Gibbo is still injured, which is a shame too, but it is a chance for me.
“Hopefully I can take it, kick on and prove I’m the one that should play there.”
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
At times last season, when called on to deputise for Gibbs, Townsend struggled with the fast pace and physicality of the Championship in his first campaign in the second tier.
He feels he has acclimatised and is right at home in a team pushing for automatic promotion.
“When I first came here I was new to the league,” he said. “I had played a lot of games at lower league level, but it’s different when you step up.
 
“But I’m confident in my own ability. I know I’m good enough to be in this team.
“And with us fighting at the top end of the table I just want to keep doing that and keep on proving myself.”
