
# Strictly Come Dancing's nastiest feuds and the snide comment that 'cost one star his job'

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:28:06+00:00**

Author: **Frances Kindon**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/strictly-come-dancings-nastiest-feuds-20807964)

Teeth and smiles are the name of the game on Strictly Come Dancing .
But behind the glittery performances, the fur often flies with the judges, pro dancers and celebrity contestants clashing over everything from air time to the score board.
Last weekend things kicked off between pro dancer Anton Du Beke and judge Shirley Ballas after he tried to shut down her critique of his dance with Emma Barton.
"First of all I want to say that you're tall and elegant and you have everything it takes to do a Rumba before I say what I'm about to say..." she began before Anton interjected, "There's no need to say anymore."
But Shirley wouldn't be stopped.
"The only timing that I could read was the basic - the alemana and the sliding doors... the rest of it I have absolutely no idea on what count you were dancing for this dance," she criticised to the sound of boos.
"There are four beats and three steps - you have to understand that."
"Sometimes there are four steps and three beats," Anton interrupted. "Sometimes there are five steps and seven beats. Sometimes there are no steps!"
Shirley scored them a five, and when Anton and Emma were saved for the dance off, he couldn't help but seemingly stick the knife in, sniping, "I would have hated for us to be in the dance-off on that dance because I thought that Emma danced that beautifully. And so, well done you."
But it's not the first time - and certainly won't be the last - that the tensions of the show have caused a bust-up...
 
Will mysteriously quit the show midway through in October 2016 after a judge Len Goodman  told him to "turn up, keep up and shut up" in a row over his Bollywood routine.
Citing "personal reasons", Will beat a hasty retreat, leaving his pro partner Karen devastated.
"I haven't really been in touch with Will since the show," she told the Radio Times in 2017.
"I think everybody understands his reasons and we all understand, but it's hard when there's the other half. It's my job and I love my job and it was really hard for me to stay behind and see everybody have an amazing series and not to be a part of it."
However, a source told The Mirror at the time that Will left in part due to backstage "squabbles" with Karen.
"Karen was just doing her job, she was training him hard but in the end he just didn’t want to keep getting told off and corrected all the time," the insider said.
"It infuriated him. They squabbled a few times during rehearsals and it left him feeling exhausted."
Reports claimed Strictly 2017 contestants Alexandra and Debbie were locked in a "bitter rivalry" after both were favoured to win.
“There is real drama between Alexandra and Debbie," a source claimed to The Sun.
"With every week that passes, things become even more strained between them. Neither of them is showing any sign of winding down on this.
“The hardest part of it all is that their dance partners, Giovanni (Pernice) and Gorka (Marquez), are the best of mates."
Debbie fuelled the gossip by hitting out at fake celebs, blasting, “I understand that we can all have favourites.
“But some people who are not very warm in real life come through on TV as very warm.”
However, she later denied beefing with Alexandra, insisting, "We have a really special friendship. It's absolute rubbish."
And Alexandra also poured cold water on that and rumours she'd clashed with her partner Gorka over his budding romance with their co-star Gemma Atkinson.
"I’m telling you, every single [report] isn’t true. It’s laughable," she told Huff Post UK.
"I don’t even know where it comes from."
Brendan was sacked from the show in January 2018 and said his "cards were marked" after he mocked Shirley in her first week as head judge - the role he'd had his eye on.
Appearing on BBC2 show It Takes Two, when Zoe Ball asked if he was hoping to impress the newcomer, he sniped, "I’d imagine she’s more likely to be wanting to impress us, I’ve been on the show 15 years, she’s just showed up."
He quickly saw the "error of my ways" and fired off an apology - which he said went unanswered.
“I sent her a message saying, ‘Didn’t mean any offence, just making good telly’. I didn’t get a reply,” he said in John Bishop: In Conversation With.
However, Shirley - who routinely irked Brendan with her critiques of his partner Charlotte Hawkins - insisted there was nothing to see here, thank you very much.
"I don't have any recollection on a personal level of bridges ever being broken or rebuilt between me and Brendan," she told Hello! magazine.
Gorka made no secret of his disappointment when he wasn't given a celebrity partner this year.
And he was even more narked when Kevin Clifton was drafted in to partner Alex Scott after her pro partner Neil Jones injured himself in training.
Kevin had already had a partner in the form of Anneka Rice, who got eliminated in the second week.
Making his feelings known, Gorka retweeted a series of angry fan messages including one that read, "Gorka deserved it not Kevin who already had a partner this year."
“Should have be Gorks not King Kev," read another.
And rumours of a simmering beef between the two dancers first surfaced in August when Kevin ignored Gorka's 'demotion' but sent messages of comfort to their co-star Graziano, who was in the same boat.
Referencing his sister Joanna Clifton, Kevin tweeted his support to Garziano, writing, "Mate, my sister was the same in her second series.
"In her third series she won! You’re one of the best dancers I know so get ready to OWN 2020!"
But when Gorka tweeted about his own lack of partner, fans noticed there was radio silence from Kevin.
James and Craig clashed constantly before the former quit the BBC show after being offered a reduced role.
Things got particularly nasty when Craig took offence at James' wife Ola's raunchy Christmas calendar, commenting that images of the Strictly star “pouring milk all over herself with her legs spread" might not be the right look.
James branded him "vile", raging, "How can he say it’s not okay to sell a sexy Christmas calendar, but it is okay to sell his own book telling the world he was a drunken rent boy, and call it All Balls and Glitter."
In return, Craig accused his nemesis of trying to drum up headlines, and this year James called for him to be sacked from Strictly.
"The show doesn't need Craig. He should go. If Craig was gone they wouldn't notice any difference at all. The viewers wouldn't miss him either. No-one would miss him," he raged to the Daily Star.
 
