
# Shay Mitchell reveals the name of her baby girl

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:27:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/magazine/entertainment/2019/11/06/news/shay-mitchell-reveals-the-name-of-her-baby-girl-1758737/)

Pretty Little Liars star Shay Mitchell has revealed she has named her baby girl Atlas Noa.
The actress, who welcomed her daughter last month, spilled the beans about her name in a moving Instagram post about being a mum.
She said: “Atlas Noa, In my 32 years of life I thought I had seen a lot of places, experienced a lot of things, met a lot of people and felt love…then came you.
“Truth is I had no idea I was capable of loving anything like this before you arrived.
“You wonder if that’s just something people say, but it’s as if the chemical makeup of my entire body and soul changed the minute we met.”
Mitchell said she wakes up each day “still in awe that you are mine, and I am yours”.
She said: “I’m still learning about you and I’ll never grow old of watching you slowly wake up, catch a glimpse of me or your dad and focus intently, almost as if to say ‘I know you.’
“Just know, sweet girl – Whatever you choose to do in this world, whoever you choose to love, wherever you choose to go, I will always be your biggest fan. I am already so proud to be your Mama.
“PS. The days of dressing you up as burritos and other snacks has only just begun.”
Mitchell and her boyfriend Matte Babel announced the pregnancy in June.
She previously revealed that she had suffered a miscarriage last year.
The actress played Emily Fields in teen drama Pretty Little Liars from 2010 to 2017.
