
# MACC urges media to responsibly report corrupt practices, educate public

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:57:14+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/macc-urges-media-responsibly-report-corrupt-practices-educate-public)

PUTRAJAYA (Nov 1): The Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) has urged media practitioners to report on corrupt practices with the responsibility of educating the public on the dangers of corruption to the country.
MACC Chief Commissioner Latheefa Koya said the media should report the facts behind every corruption issue in an impartial manner.
"Media practitioners should not be easily influenced by stakeholders on any issue.
"Media practitioners must be able to identify the parties that make use of the media for their own benefit, and not for the development of the nation.
"For example, those who use the issue of corruption to gain certain positions, and who use it as a weapon to bring down another party for their own interests," she said at the 2019 Media Appreciation Night hosted by the agency here today.
Also present were MACC Deputy Chief Commissioner (Operations) Datuk Seri Azam Baki, Malaysian National News Agency (Bernama) chairman Datuk Seri Azman Ujang, as well as editors-in-chief and media practitioners from various organisations.
Latheefa said although every media organisation had its own set of agenda, all media practitioners should be united and transparent on the issue of corruption.
"There should be no opportunity or space for crime to poison and ruin our country's development," she said.
She added that the media was one of the most important components of community development for a developing country like Malaysia.
"The media plays a major role in bringing social awareness to matters based on issues of interest, welfare and social justice as a whole.
"That is why the job of a journalist is not just to report the news, the report must have a 'soul' that is responsible for raising awareness and educating the public on any issue or social problem, including corruption," she said.
Latheefa said the media should also assist the MACC in their investigation by not reporting on a case while it was under investigation, as it could affect the process.
She said the commitment shown by media practitioners indirectly encouraged the MACC to continue to carry out its duties and responsibilities in the fight against corruption and abuse of power.
"Personally, I am very impressed with this close relationship and this cooperation, it is my hope that this good relationship between us lasts for long," she said.
