
# Get a hold of your phone with PopGrips

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:07:17+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/get-hold-your-phone-popsockets?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: PopSockets
      
For every time you've been lying down, reading your phone, losing your grip, and smacking yourself in the face, you'll wish you had a PopGrip. These brilliantly simple universal accessories add a compact grip to the back of your phone. Pop it out and your fingers have a firm grip to stop you from dropping it. When it's not in use, it collapses flat against your device so it's still easily pocketable. Best of all, it acts as a stand, so you can prop up your phone to a comfortable viewing angle when watching videos.

        Source: PopSockets
      
While that's quite useful in and of itself, PopGrips have gone above and beyond mere utility. With swappable PopTops, you can make a fine fashion statement too. These PopTops can be a simple design, a solid color, a specialized material, a logo of your favorite sports team, even a mirror, or whatever image you want to upload to PopGrip.

        Source: PopSockets
      
PopSockets have expanded to a wider range of accessories, too. For example, you've got their Otterbox partnership. This family of cases has a PopSocket mount and indentation built in, so it's perfectly flush with the case when collapsed. There's also the PopWallet+, which lets you stash away up to three credit cards directly on your phone. They also have a variety of mounts that PopGrips slide into to use in the car or at home so you can go hands-free.
PopGrips are a simple, useful addition to any phone, and the wide range of designs and materials available make it an especially fashionable one, too.
PopGrips are a fun way to kit out any phone! Pop it out so you have extra grip on your phone, or as a stand. When you're done, collapse it flat against your device.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        One eternity later Hey Google — why hasn't my Pixel 4 gotten the November security patch? The Pixel 4 is Google's latest flagship smartphone, so why is it still stuck on the October security patch?
      

        🐠🐡🐟🦈 Something fishy's going on: How Google names in-development Pixels Did you know your Pixel phone was named after a fish? Check out the faces behind the names for Google's Pixel line.
      

        Smarter Smart Screens You no longer have to ask your Google Smart Display when a photo was taken Google Photos on smart displays now shows the date and the length of time since a photo was taken. Huzzah!
      

        buyers guide The best cases for the Moto G6 The Moto G6 is shiny and good-looking, but its glass back is also really slippery. Outfit it with a quality case and make it easier to grip!
      
