
# UFC 244: Kelvin Gastelum vs. Darren Till Fight Prediction

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **ESPN＋ | Paid Program**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/espn/2019/11/02/ufc-244-kelvin-gastelum-vs-darren-till-fight-prediction/)


        This post was created in partnership with ESPN+. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
      
The Kelvin Gastelum and Darren Till fight, which serves as the co-main for UFC 244, might not have all of the drama of the main event between Nate Diaz and Jorge Masvidal, but it could certainly get interesting.
When Darren Till enters the octagon in Madison Square Garden on Saturday night, November 2, it’ll be the first time the former welterweight will be fighting as a middleweight. Of course, some folks see that as a positive. Till often had trouble cutting weight to make welterweight and at 185 pounds, he might feel more comfortable fighting.
Meanwhile, Kelvin Gastelum has been fighting at middleweight, and is widely considered one of the best in the world. With Gastelum, in other words, we know what we’re getting. But with Till, we have a fighter that’s entering a new weight class after some bad beats at the hands of Tyron Woodley and Jorge Masvidal.
It’s perhaps no surprise, then, that Vegas currently has Gastelum as the clear favorite. And like it or not, it's warranted.
Darren Till has earned his spot in the co-main event at UFC 244. He’s tough, he has a generally good chin, and with only two losses under his belt to Woodley and Masvidal, compared to 17 victories, he’s clearly a tough fighter with plenty of talent.
But in his fight against Masvidal at Fight Night 147, Till looked overmatched. And his quick loss in the second round made some wonder whether it was time for a change, especially after his submission loss to Woodley last year at UFC 228.
It’s also important to keep in mind just how difficult it can be to move weight classes. Sure, Till may be a better fit for middleweight, but he’ll also be a bit heavier than he typically is in fights, and he may not move as swiftly. And even with that bump in weight, there’s no guarantee his chin will hold up against Gastelum’s vicious striking.
Indeed, Gastelum might be one of the best strikers in the middleweight division. And although he lost to Israel Adesanya at UFC 236 in April, it was a close decision loss against one of the best middleweights the UFC has ever seen. It was a loss, but in many ways, it was a victory — and an endorsement of Gastelum’s skills.
There’s little debating that if Till can catch Gastelum cleanly, he has a chance at knocking out his opponent. But actually catching Gastelum with a punch has proven difficult for everyone in the game. And since Till isn’t on the same level as Adesanya, it’s hard to believe he’ll be able to overcome Gastelum.
By the end of the bout, this one could be bloody. And look for Till to put up a good fight for a bit. But before long, it’ll be clear Gastelum is the superior fighter and the one who will have his arm raised with a knockout relatively early in the fight.
UFC 244 kicks off from Madison Square Garden on Saturday, November 2. The main card begins at 10 p.m., but the early prelims begin at 6:30 p.m. ET on ESPN+ pay-per-view.  The $79.98 pay-per-view fight includes a one-year subscription to ESPN+. 

        
          Caesars Casino Odds
        
      

        
          Main Card
        
      

        Main Event (Welterweight): Jorge Masvidal vs. Nate Diaz
      

        Latest Odds: Masvidal (-160) | Diaz (+130)
      

        Middleweight: Kelvin Gastelum vs. Darren Till
      

        Latest Odds: Gastelum (-200) | Till (+170)
      

        Welterweight: Stephen Thompson vs. Vicente Luque
      

        Latest Odds: Thompson (-130) | Luque (+100)
      

        Heavyweight: Derrick Lewis vs. Blagoy Ivanov
      

        Latest Odds: Lewis (+100) | Ivanov (-125)
      

        Lightweight: Kevin Lee vs. Gregor Gillespie
      

        Latest Odds: Lee (+145) | Gillespie (-175)
      

        
          Preliminary Card (ESPN2)
        
      

        Light Heavyweight: Corey Anderson vs. Johnny Walker
      

        Latest Odds: Anderson (+140) | Walker (-179)
      

        Featherweight: Shane Burgos vs. Makwan Amirkhani
      

        Latest Odds: Burgos (-250) | Amirkhani (+200)
      

        Middleweight: Brad Tavares vs. Edmen Shahbazyan
      

        Latest Odds: Tavares (+105) | Shahbazyan (-130)
      

        Heavyweight: Andrei Arlovski vs. Jairzinho Rozenstruik
      

        Latest Odds: Arlovski (+115) | Rozenstuik (-145)
      

        
          Early Preliminary Card (UFC Fight Pass)
        
      

        Women Catchweight: Katlyn Chookagian vs. Jennifer Maia
      

        Latest Odds: Chookagian (-160) | Maia (+130)
      

        Welterweight: Lyman Good vs. Chance Rencountre
      

        Latest Odds: Good (-130) | Rencountre (+100)
      

        Featherweight: Julio Arce vs. Hakeem Dawodu
      

        Latest Odds: Arce (+100) | Dawodu (-130)
      
