
# The shine goes on...

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TNN**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/beauty/the-shine-goes-on-/articleshow/71852779.cms)

Shahnaz HusainHerbal beauty expertEAT SOME FRUITS Fruits like banana, apple, papaya, avocado, oranges can be mixed together and applied as a face mask for all skin types. Papaya, rich in enzymes, cleanses the skin of dead cells and helps cell renewal. Banana tightens it and apples and oranges are rich in vitamins and minerals. Avocado is rich in antioxidants, hydrates the skin and has powerful age control benefits. Apply and wash after 30 minutes.

        SPRAY IT ON
      
Make a facial spray for acne-prone skin with 100 ml distilled or mineral water.
To it, add 3-4 drops of tea tree oil. Spray on the face and leave
for 20 minutes. Rinse with plain water. Stock the bottle in fridge.

        AT-HOME TONER
      
Green tea is a powerful antioxidant. Take half cup water and bring it to a boil. Put 2 tsp tea leaves in a ceramic bowl and pour the hot water over it and let it steep for two minutes. Strain and cool the liquid. Apply on face with cotton wool to tone the skin. This is a leave-on solution.

        SCRUB SENSE
      
The best body scrub is the age-old “ubtan” made at home with wheat bran or choker, gram flour, curd or cream of milk and a pinch of turmeric. All these can be mixed together and applied on the body, about 20 minutes before bathing. It helps to clear away the dead cells and make the skin clean, soft and smooth.
You can also dry some orange and lemon peels and then grind them into a powder. Mix ground oats and almonds (almond meal) to it. Add a little olive oil and rose water.
Apply on the skin and rub gently in
circular movements. Then wash off with water.

        TAN BEGONE
      
One way to be fall-ready is to work on summer tan removal. Take sesame seeds, dried mint leaves, 1 tbsp each of lemon juice and honey. Crush the sesame seeds coarsely and powder the dried mint leaves. Mix them with lemon juice and a little honey and apply on the face and arms. Sesame seeds have sun protective properties and also soothe sun-damaged skin. It helps to remove tan and produce an even colour tone.
Mint has a stimulating effect and adds a glow while honey moisturises and softens the skin. Rub gently on the skin. Leave on for a few minutes and then wash off with water.

        HAIR AND NOW
      
To make a moisturising hair mask, take 2 tsp vinegar, 1 tsp pure glycerine and one egg. Mix them well. Massage lightly into the hair. Wear a plastic shower cap and leave it on for half an hour before washing.
Make a henna hair pack to add shine, body and bounce. For oily, dandruff prone hair, add 4 tsp each of lemon juice and coffee, 2 raw eggs and enough “tea water” to the henna powder, mixing it into a thick paste. To make tea water, boil used tea leaves again in enough water. After boiling, you should have about 4 -5 cups of tea water. Cool and strain and add to paste. Apply the henna on your hair and wash off after an hour with plain water. If you do not wish to use egg, add more tea water.

        NAILED IT
      
To get shiny nails, take pure almond oil and warm it. Soak your fingers and nails in it for 10 minutes. Massage the oil on the nails and on the skin around it. Wipe off with a moist towel. Buff your nails with a piece of chamois leather. It should be gently rubbed with it. It helps to remove discolouration on nails and also makes the nails shiny.
Make sure not to make home beauty recipes in large quantities. The idea is to use it fresh
