
# St Mirren defender Paul McGinn insists there's no panic in Paisley about lowly league position

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:50:44+00:00**

Author: **Ben Ramage**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/st-mirren-defender-paul-mcginn-20817554)

This St Mirren side won’t be walked over.
That is the belief of Saints defender Paul McGinn, who feels the club have become harder to beat since he joined in May last year.
With the first round of fixtures now complete, the former Dundee and Chesterfield star thinks every club now know they are in for a battle when they take on the Buddies.
The experienced 29-year-old also feels there’s no need to panic about the club’s lowly position at the bottom of the Premiership table.
“Last year teams thought they’d just turn up and roll us over,” McGinn told Express Sport.
“But that’s not the case anymore. Everyone’s looking at us as a team now thinking we’re not mugs anymore.
“We’ve got to take confidence from that.
“It’s up to us to make sure it’s up the way we go now.
“We’re only just into November so there’s no need to rush.
“We got most of our points in the last third of the season last year, so there’s no need to panic.
“We’re in much better shape this year and we’re taking it as a 38-game season.
“It doesn’t matter that we’re bottom now, as long as we’re not bottom after 38 games.”
 
McGinn feels St Mirren can take great belief from the amount of chances they created in their last two games, away against Celtic and Kilmarnock.
And he’s confident things will turn around as the club head into the next round of fixtures, starting with a trip to Edinburgh to face crisis club Hearts .
He said: “I thought in spells we broke well against Celtic in the first half and we defended really well.
“There was one break where I got to the byline and I thought this is a goal, this is a goal – and Kristoffer Ajer somehow gets his big long legs in the way and blocked it.
“There were spells when we definitely got at Celtic and there’s times when I’ve come here and defended really well but you just can’t out of your own half. I felt we passed out the back really well.
 
“In the second half we got tired and to lose a goal so early knocked the stuffing out of us a little bit.
“Before you know it it’s a long second half but I thought we played well and we showed we won’t be walked over in this league.
“We look at the stats all the time and Celtic’s stats at home this season are ridiculous. They scored two goals against Lazio so that tells you all you need to know.
“It’s a shame we can’t get that wee break. Their first goal came off the post and could have landed at us instead of them, but I’m confident it will come.
“I’m sure our luck will turn.”
