
# Fracking Dumped: U.K. Campaigners Rejoice, But Urge Caution

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **David Vetter**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidrvetter/2019/11/02/fracking-dumped-uk-campaigners-rejoice-but-urge-caution/)

Environmental campaigners and community groups have given a joyful welcome to news of a halt to fracking for oil and gas in the U.K. But some observers and opposition MPs have urged caution, warning that the announcement does not constitute an outright ban.Business and energy secretary Andrea Leadsom said the decision was taken following a report by the Oil and Gas Authority on seismic activity at a fracking site in Lancashire.
“For this reason, I have concluded that we should put a moratorium on fracking in England with immediate effect,” she said.
Environmental groups reacted with elation. “YOU’VE WON! WE’VE WON!” Friends of the Earth exclaimed in a tweet.
Caroline Lucas of the Green Party tweeted: “It’s taken 10 years but we’ve done it! Fracking is banned in UK—congrats to all campaigners!”
But many in opposition interpreted the halt as a temporary political ploy intended to shore up votes ahead of the December 13 general election. And some noted that David Cameron’s coalition government lifted a previous moratorium on fracking in 2011.
Quoting Leadsom, Labour Member of Parliament for Lancaster and Fleetwood Cat Smith warned in a tweet: “Always read the small print, ‘Until we have compelling evidence it’s safe’ ... Labour will BAN fracking—whereas the Tories will only call a temporary halt to it.”
There had been widespread speculation earlier this week regarding a potential ban on the hydraulic fracturing of shale rock for fossil fuels—a move that represents a major about-face for Boris Johnson’s Conservatives, a party with historically close ties to the oil and gas industry.
Boris Johnson himself is on record as being a staunch proponent of fracking. In a 2014 interview with The Times, the then mayor of London said: “If reserves of shale can be exploited in London we should leave no stone unturned, or unfracked, in the cause of keeping the lights on”.
But fracking is extremely unpopular among voters, as concerns about climate change, as well as the possible local effects of the industry, such as tremors and water source pollution, have risen. Renewable energy initiatives, by comparison, have been shown in polls to be almost universally popular.
The opposition Labour party has pledged a complete ban on fracking and in recent weeks unveiled an aggressively pro-renewables green agenda. The party is targeting an accelerated deadline to take Britain to net-zero carbon emissions by 2030, some two decades ahead of the government’s own, legally mandated net-zero deadline of 2050.
