
# Jo Swinson says Labour and the Tories are the same on Brexit. That’s just not true

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:09:02+00:00**

Author: **Chaminda Jayanetti**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/07/jo-swinson-labour-tories-brexit)


        There are plenty of reasons not to vote for Corbyn. But his current Brexit policy is close to what the Lib Dems pledged in 2017
      
Once upon a time, words had meanings. Take “merge”, for example – to “blend gradually into something else so as to become indistinguishable from it”, according to the Oxford English Dictionary.
Apparently it means something else to the Liberal Democrats. How else to explain Jo Swinson’s inexplicable claim this week that Labour and the Tories “merge into one” on Brexit? Are Labour and the Tories indistinguishable on the subject?
Labour promises a second referendum with remain on the ballot. The Tories do not. Labour is promising to negotiate a relatively soft Brexit deal as the other option in the referendum vote. The Tories are pledging a hard Brexit. The one constant in Labour’s shifting Brexit stance since 2016 has been opposition to no deal. The Tories are leaving no deal firmly on the table, keeping alive the possibility of an EU crash-out at the end of 2020.
Swinson is not a disengaged voter, or a hyperbolic keyboard warrior. She is a party leader. She knows Labour and the Tories are not the same. When she says they “merge into one” on Brexit, she is lying.
She won’t be the only one, of course, during what is already shaping up to be a wretchedly mendacious election. But what particularly rankles about Swinson’s dishonesty is that Labour has more or less adopted the Lib Dems’ own policy from 2017. Two years ago, her party’s manifesto stated: “When the terms of our future relationship with the EU have been negotiated (over the next two years on the government’s timetable), we will put that deal to a vote of the British people in a referendum, with the alternative option of staying in the EU on the ballot paper.”
