
# EPCR: Premiership Ruling Will Not Affect Saracens European Standing

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:33:28+00:00**

Author: **Marisa Kennedy**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/rugby/kennedymarisa760/epcr-premiership-saracens-european/)


        The EPCR, the governing body of European club rugby, have confirmed that today’s decision by Premiership Rugby to hit Saracens with a strong penalty will not affect the club’s European standing.
      
The Heineken Champions Cup champions received a 35-point deduction as well as £5.36 million fine for breaching the Premiership Rugby Salary Cap.
Following a nine-month investigation, Premiership Rugby this morning confirmed that Saracens failed to disclose payments to players in each of the seasons 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19, in addition to having exceeded the ceiling for payments to senior players in each of the three seasons.
The EPCR, however, have confirmed to Pundit Arena that the decision does not affect Saracens’ record in Europe.
Saracens have denied the allegations saying they are “shocked and disappointed” at the outcome of the investigation.
Meanwhile, Saracens owner Nigel Wray said the club “never deliberately sought to mislead anyone.”
“For over 25 years, I have put my heart and soul into the game I love. Together we have created something incredibly special with the Saracens family, both on and off the field.
“This is absolutely devastating for everyone associated with this amazing group of players, staff, partners and fans.
“It has been acknowledged by the Panel that we never deliberately sought to mislead anyone or breach the cap and that’s why it feels like the rug is being completely pulled out from under our feet. We will appeal all the findings.”
