
# Pochettino Thanks Coleman For Consoling Son After Gomes Incident

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:45:38+00:00**

Author: **Michael Corry**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/football/mcorry/coleman-pochettino-son-gomes/)


        Nobody knows more about the stress of a serious leg injury than Ireland captain Seamus Coleman who suffered a horrific break against Wales back in 2017.
      
The Everton full-back was forced out of the game for almost a year later after the horror tackle from Neil Taylor left the Donegal man in a heap at the Aviva Stadium.
While sympathy poured in for Coleman, the Welsh left-back was hung out to dry in many respects after a mistimed tackle that ultimately put a fellow professional out of the game. His teammate James Chester has since gone on the record to state that the incident deeply affected Taylor.
Earlier today, Coleman’s Everton teammate Andre Gomes was stretchered off the pitch at Goodison Park with an, as of yet unconfirmed, serious injury. The midfielder clashed with Tottenham Hotspur striker Heung Min-Son who left the fields in tears after receiving a red card for the challenge.
Given the affable nature that emanates from the Spurs striker, it’s easy to believe that the tears were indeed linked to his role in what could well be the end of Gomes’ season, rather than the red card he’d just received.
According to Telegraph reporter Chris Bascombe, the Ireland skipper visited the Spurs changing room after the match to console Son.
Bascombe took to Twitter this evening to quote Mauricio Pochettino who thanked the Everton full-back for visiting the changing rooms post-match.
