
# The 'Stranger Things' Season 4 Premiere Title Hints At A Marvel Connection

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:11:27+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/the-stranger-things-season-4-premiere-title-hints-at-a-marvel-connection-19305247)

Say goodbye to the Scoops Troop and hello to the Hellfire Club. Because, the Stranger Things Season 4 premiere title was just announced, and it hints at a Marvel connection. Specifically, it could imply that the teens might be leaving Dungeons and Dragons behind for the X-Men.
On Wednesday night, Nov. 6, the official Stranger Writers Twitter account, which is run by the show's writer's room, posted a photo of the script for next season's premiere. The cover of the script, shared in celebration of Stranger Things Day, revealed that the episode was written by creators Matt and Ross Duffer, and, most importantly, its title: "Chapter One: The Hellfire Club." "Looking for new members," the tweet read. "Are you in?"
Before officially joining up, fans might be wondering what exactly the Hellfire Club is. Luckily, they don't have to wait until Stranger Things returns. The Hellfire Club is a reference to the group of villains that fought against the X-Men and had a role in unleashing the Dark Phoenix, according to CNET.
The Dark Phoenix was the name for the destructive side of Jean Grey, one of the most powerful X-Men due to her telepathic and telekinetic powers. For years, fans and pop culture journalists have been making comparisons between Jean Grey and Eleven (Millie Bobby Brown), who has similar powers that she's still learning to harness. This episode's title might be a sign that Stranger Things is leaning into those similarities, and that Eleven could break bad this season. After all, left alone in the world, without her father figure Hopper, who knows what Eleven will do?
