
# UFC chief Dana White responds to Tyson Fury's suggestion he could turn to MMA

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:51:20+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/ufc-chief-dana-white-responds-20807120)

UFC bigwig Dana White has laughed off Tyson Fury ’s plan to become an MMA fighter.
Fury has revealed Conor McGregor is willing to train him following talks with the Irishman.
‘The Gypsy King’, who recently overcame Braun Strowman on his WWE debut at Crown Jewel, fancies a bout with UFC heavyweight champ Stipe Miocic.
But White believes Fury should stick to boxing.
“Fury’s worked hard his whole life to become one of the top four [heavyweights] in the world in boxing,” he said.
“Why would you wanna even come over and attempt this? I don’t think it ends well for him. It doesn’t make sense for his career.”
Fury is trying his hand at a number of alternative pursuits ahead of his anticipated rematch with Deontay Wilder .
The heavyweight duo are set to clash again on February 22 if Wilder beats Luis Ortiz in their rematch later this month.
Fury has been out of the ring since September’s victory against Otto Wallin.
And the 31-year-old is making the most of his free time.
“I’m dipping my toes in all waters right now, like WWE,” he said.
“I don’t know if you’ve noticed but I’ve got WWE now, my book, autobiography, ITV documentary, song with Robbie Williams, big Deontay Wilder rematch and then you know… Fingers in all pies.
“I’m trying to get that big fight going on with whoever. Listen, I’m not afraid of any of them. Who’s the heavyweight champion of the world in UFC? Stipe Miocic is it?
“He just beat Daniel Cormier in the rematch, good body shots, bam, bam, got him out of there. I’d fight him in a heartbeat, no problem. Or Francis Ngannou. Any of the heavyweight champions they’ve got. I ain’t afraid of any of them. I’m the Gypsy King. Listen, I’m a boxer, but I am one bad ass mofo.”
