
# Liverpool predicted lineup vs Aston Villa as Mohamed Salah to start despite ankle issue

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-predicted-lineup-vs-aston-20792163)

Liverpool look to continue their unbeaten start to the Premier League season when they face Aston Villa.
The Reds are six points clear of champions Manchester City after nine wins from their opening 10 Premier League matches.
Mohamed Salah's penalty at Anfield last Sunday was enough to secure another three points with a 2-1 win over Tottenham Hotspur.
But the Kop's Egyptian hero continues to nurse an ankle problem, the lasting effects of Hamza Choudhury's challenge in the win over Leicester last month which so infuriated Jurgen Klopp.
Salah has followed a tailored fitness plan during the past week, training away from the rest of the first team before Friday.
However, he is set to start in the West Midlands against the Villans.
"He should be fine," said Klopp. "He has had to do his individual stuff but he will be in training (on Friday).
“I think it is more really annoying - for him, not me - the fact that the injury always has a bit of fluid in, and he has to deal with it, we get it out and it comes back, and stuff like that.
“But this is not a real injury in this sense, so I’ve heard ( from the physios), so he should be fine."
The biggest decision for Klopp involves his midfield, with Fabinho set to be only a substitute at Villa Park; the Brazilian is one booking away from a suspension, which would rule him out of the City clash.
As such, Jordan Henderson is set to play in the deeper role, with Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain starting alongside
Villa are set to have captain Jack Grealish available, after he missed their League Cup win over local rivals Wolves .
Grealish is set to start as part of the front three once more, having been pushed further forward by boss Dean Smith in recent weeks.
Liverpool predicted XI: Alisson; Alexander-Arnold, Lovren, van Dijk, Robertson; Henderson, Wijnaldum, Oxlade-Chamberlain; Salah, Firmino, Mane
