
# K-Pop Fans Are Pretty Miffed About These Changes To The 2020 BRIT Awards

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:44:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/the-brit-awards-are-changing-in-2020-k-pop-fans-arent-happy-about-it-19300029)

As the new year draws ever closer, discussion surrounding the 2020 awards season is already underway, and the UK's biggest celebration of music is set to return once again. I am of course referring to the annual BRIT Awards, which over the years has honoured the likes of The Spice Girls, Ed Sheeran, Adele, and many more. However, the BRIT Awards are changing in 2020, and the ceremony will undergo a major overhaul.
As Digital Spy reports, the changes applied to next years BRITs revolve around many of the show's biggest categories and fan voting — much of which is set to be axed.
The televised ceremony is scheduled to return in February 2020, and prizes including Outstanding Contribution to Music will not be featured within the planned lineup of awards, which has been reduced to a total of just nine. In addition to cutting elements of the live broadcast, the BRITs have also renamed some of the most prestigious categories, including the previously titled Critics' Choice Award, which is now known as the Rising Star award. Elsewhere, the British Breakthrough Act will be referred to as Best New Artist, and the British Single award has now been retitled Song of the Year.
Most controversially of all, the Best International Group category has been axed, which has irked a few fans of the K-Pop group BTS, who no longer have a shot at winning a BRIT.
