
# House goes on sale for £1.3m - but photos of inside leave people feeling 'ill'

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:19:30+00:00**

Author: **Luke Matthews, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/luke-matthews/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/weird-news/house-goes-sale-13m-photos-20794872)

Everyone has to make a few compromises when it comes to finding a new home.
Whether it's location, size or knowing you'll have to part with even more of your hard earned cash for renovations, it's rare to find the complete package.
One five-bedroom detached home in Middlesex has gone on the market for a cool £1.3m, promising a family-friendly location, bright spaces and a conservatory leading to a patio area and spacious garden behind.
It all sounds pretty ideal for those who are a bit more flushed with cash than us but one home-hunter spotted one major issue - or should we say one hundred.
 
In a post on Twitter which has since had more than 4,000 likes and 1,400 retweets, Toby Davies wrote: "Thinking about buying this house, but I'm not sure it has enough plug sockets."
As photos of the home move from the stunning exterior, to the dreamy kitchen and then to the living area, Toby's sarcastic concerns become very apparent.
Every wall appears to be absolutely plastered in sockets. Sockets stacked on top of one another, sockets halfway up the walls and sockets running underneath the windows.
So. Many. Sockets.
 
With the owners clearly having never laid eyes on a multi-plug adapter, people were left completely baffled as to what all the outlets were possibly used for.
Questions include 'were they running the CIA from the front room?' and 'was this an electrician's training centre at one point?'.
Another joked the last electricity bill was £1,452,092 for the quarter.
For those who are big fans of electricity, it could be the perfect property, offering three bathrooms, a garage and a lovely breakfast bar.
The online description fails to address quite why there are so many sockets.
It's little wonder they are charging so much. Ba dum tss!
