
# Bucks Need Defense To Spark Transition Offense

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Sampson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/briansampson/2019/11/03/milwaukee-bucks-need-defense-spark-transition-offense/)

The 2019-20 Milwaukee Bucks have been a tale of two teams. One story is about a dominant squad who punishes their opponents by submitting them into difficult shots and, subsequently, draining threes on the other end of the floor. The other defines a club hemorrhaging points while being unable to hit the broad side of a barn. Regardless of the scenario, it all comes back to one common factor; getting stops.Beyond the obvious fact any team is better off when they force their opponent to miss shots, the Bucks need their defense to spark their offense. It’s not necessarily that they are bad in the half court, as some analysts lead you to believe, it’s more about how dominant they are in the open floor.
After securing the defensive rebound, Sterling Brown immediately pushes the ball up the middle of the court, the perfect place to be as a ball-handler in transition. He’s flanked on both sides by beautifully-spaced teammates which make his possibilities endless. Right as he’s about to cross half court, he whips a pass to George Hill on the left side of the floor. This forces two Magic defenders to communicate about the new assignment and causes confusion about who’s stopping the ball, the number one rule in transition defense. There’s just enough room for Hill to exploit on his way to the hoop and he turns it into two points.
Two of the Bucks’ best players, Giannis Antetokounmpo and Eric Bledsoe, are built perfectly for running and gunning. Their advantage lies in their athleticism, as their combination of speed, quickness and strength is too much for most defenders to handle.
Head coach Mike Budenholzer recognizes this and encourages his team to push the pace at every turn. Through six games this season, they’re running on 19.2 percent of their possessions, the second-highest in the league according to Cleaning the Glass.
The Bucks have also put an emphasis on running with the ball in Antetokounmpo’s hands. They look for him early and often following a stop.
Wesley Matthews scoops the ball to Antetokounmpo as he crosses half court and fades to the three-point line, as he and his teammates orbit the MVP. The spacing allows the ball-handler to probe the paint for a driving lane and kick it out to a shooter when the defense collapses. In an attempt to stop a vicious dunk, Kevin Love sets up camp in the middle of the paint, too far from his man in the corner. In what’s becoming a patented move, Antetokounmpo whips a no-look pass to Middleton who splashes home the three.
The Greek Freak is getting out in transition even more than he did last year when he used a quarter of his possessions in the open court. His 8.2 transition possessions per game ranks first in the NBA and accounts for 32 percent of his plays.
The spacing the team provides on the fast break is also a key element.
Following the defensive rebound, Antetokounmpo brings the ball up the floor at a moderate pace. Upon crossing half court, he feigns a dribble toward the middle, selling it with an exaggerated look and even turning his hips in that direction. He suddenly crosses over to his left hand, violently hits the gas pedal and explodes toward the baseline.
As he’s been setting up his drive since his first dribble, the rest of the Bucks have ensured the lane is wide open. They equally spread themselves out along the perimeter and fill the five spots Budenholzer preaches. This makes it difficult for the defense to help on the ball-handler and clears the paint of any potential barriers. Two long steps laters, Antetokounmpo uses his go-go gadget arm to lay the ball in the hoop.
Not only are the Bucks running more this season, their efficiency has improved as well. This has allowed them to add six points per 100 possessions through transition this season, more than any other team not named the San Antonio Spurs according to CtG.
However, Milwaukee is unable to flex their deadly weapon when their defense isn’t getting stops.
Their defense has been up and down more often than a roller coaster through the first six games. At times, they’re elite and forcing opponents into tough shot after tough shot. Other times, they look completely lost.
They’re allowing fewer shots around the rim and more threes than a year ago, however, the percentages are more or less the same. The 50.2 percent effective field goal percentage they’re giving up is a slight improvement from 2018-19. It’s been difficult to pinpoint the exact issues, but their lack of help defense could certainly play a role.
Blowing big leads has also been a calling card so far. Both of their losses have come after leading by double-digits at the half after going 25-0 in those situations last year. They’ve already allowed opponents to score 36 or more points in five separate quarters. These bad defensive quarters seem to go hand-in-hand with poor offensive performances as well.
The Bucks are a much more lethal team in transition than they are in the half court. They’re the fourth-best team when it comes to scoring after a missed field goal, averaging 1.16 points per possession. However, they are in the bottom-third of the league following a made bucket-averaging just 1.04 points per possession.
Their offensive success is a direct result of their performance on defense. When they’re locked in, they’re getting stops and pushing the pace to take advantage of scrambling defenses. When their concentration waivers, their defense is susceptible and their offense suffers. They must correct one to excel in the other.
