
# Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro with 108MP penta rear camera, Snapdragon 730G launched in China

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:26:00+00:00**

Author: **Aamir Siddiqui**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/xiaomi-mi-cc9-pro-108mp-penta-rear-camera-50x-zoom-snapdragon-730g-china-launch/)

Back in July this year, Xiaomi announced a new camera-centric lineup for the Chinese market. The first products in this lineup were the Xiaomi Mi CC9 and the Xiaomi Mi CC9e. While the Mi CC lineup remained restricted to China, the phones got rebranded and made their way to international markets. The Mi CC9 made its way to Europe as the Mi 9 Lite, while the Mi CC9e made its way to Europe and India as the rather underwhelming Mi A3. Now, the Chinese company is moving on to the next product in this lineup, launching the Mi CC9 Pro in China.
The Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro has been extensively teased by the company in the preceding week, so we had a good idea of what to expect.
The primary focus of the Mi CC9 Pro is obviously its camera setup, as this is the most ambitious and versatile camera setup that Xiaomi has bestowed upon any of its devices.
There are multiple notable talking points in the penta-rear camera setup, so we will start with the first one: the 108MP Samsung ISOCELL Bright HMX sensor.
The biggest advantage that the 108MP sensor brings along is the physically large 1/1.33″ sensor, which will allow the camera to absorb more light in low-light scenarios. As expected, you can either choose to adopt pixel binning to combine four pixels into one and get a 27MP shot (default) or get full resolution 108MP shots. The regular Mi CC9 Pro comes with a 7P lens setup, while the Mi CC9 Pro Premium Edition (which is just the higher storage and RAM variant) comes with an 8P lens setup. The camera also features OIS for this camera, so your shot will remain unaffected by hand movements.
The second highlight camera on the Mi CC9 Pro is the 5MP telephoto camera which features 5x optical zoom along with OIS. This camera is capable of 10x hybrid zoom and 50x digital zoom, so you can capture shots that are very far away. Digital zoom is akin to zooming in after clicking the picture, but you do get noticeable improvements through optical and hybrid zooms.
