
# Now, book your bus seats to Bengaluru airport in advance

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Reya Mehrotra**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/now-book-your-bus-seats-to-bengaluru-airport-in-advance/articleshow/71912851.cms)

Now while booking a flight, the commute to the airport can also be pre-planned. The portal used to book flights can now also be used to book bus tickets, well in advance. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is teaming up with various travel companies like Goibibo, MakeMyTrip, Yatra, etc. to allow one to book flights and hotels, tour packages and also bus reservation, all from the same portal. With options to book bus seats in the AC buses from the airport, travel is set to become more reliable. A senior BMTC official revealed that the BMTC app is currently being upgraded, but the seat booking options will only be available on the websites and apps of the travel companies that BMTC partners with. Once the app is ready, the booking option will be introduced on the app too. The proposal is still in discussion stages and once it nears finalization, it will be decided whether the pre-bookings will have a discount or a special rate. With the proposal only awaiting a go ahead, the services might be launched this year itself. BMTC’s Vayu Vajra Volvo service to the airport has been a profit making entity and hence the corporation is leaving no stone unturned to enhance the services on the route. Officials say that the frequency of buses on the airport route is increased, as per the demands. Passengers can book any number of seats, according to the strength of their group. If a person misses a bus that he/she had reserved a seat in, the same number of seats will be provided in the next bus. Through the portals of these agencies, one can choose the seat of their choice and book well in advance or even an hour before the commute. Since the services on the route are already running and the travel portals too are in place, the reservation option will be introduced and in place as soon as the business proposal is finalised, say officials. It will be functional soon after. “We will put up the schedules on the buses before starting the commute and the details of reserved seats for convenience,” said an official. The booking option is set to be limited only to the airport route for now.
