
# Campaigners vow to press for services to be returned to Vale of Leven Hospital

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:59:12+00:00**

Author: **Lorraine Weir**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/campaigners-vow-press-services-returned-20790283)

Campaigners are making it their mission to press for services to be returned to the Vale of Leven Hospital.
After achieving a stable position at the Alexandria facility which last week won praise from health board chair John Brown, members of Hospitalwatch have vowed to keep up the pressure on management.
Jim Moohan, who chairs the Hospitalwatch pressure group, told the Lennox Herald that, for the first time in recent years, there are currently no services at the Vale under threat.
And, although he is delighted the facility is secure, he is keen to see more services returned.
He told the Lennox Herald: “The hospital has now been protected. It’s being well cared for.
“I now believe we can take a further step in trying to retrieve services which we lost over a 10-year period.
 
“It’s not to say we are going to achieve the ultimate goal of everything.
“There has been a big change from four years ago when there was fear and anxiety there.
“Now in October 2019, we are moving forwards and we are sitting with one of the best hospitals within the board’s remit. We are setting a good example to other hospitals.
“Who knows where we will be in two or five years’ time but I can see a different Vale of Leven Hospital by then.”
NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde’s (NHSGGC) chairman, Professor John Brown gave staff at the Vale a ringing endorsement last week.
The chief highlighted the commitment by workers in ensuring consistently high levels of cleanliness throughout the hospital.
They were also praised for maintaining low infection rates.
Over the last 12 months, hand hygiene compliance rates at the Vale have been either 100 percent or 99 percent with only two months coming in at 98 percent.
Professor Brown said: “The Vale of Leven Hospital plays a very important role in delivering excellent healthcare across West Dunbartonshire and it’s clear that staff take real pride in working there.
“As a board, we value our staff and I want to commend them, and the management team, for their commitment to treating our patients in a clean and welcoming environment.
“We are always looking for ways to develop and improve every aspect of our work and the teamwork we consistently see at the Vale is a perfect example of good practice.
 
“I hear a lot of praise for our team at the Vale from patients and visitors which shows that their hard work and dedication is very much recognised and appreciated.”
Compliance for cleaning rates were all recorded as being above 97 percent consistently for the 12 months.
Estates monitoring was also held up as an example of good practice with compliance rates above 99 percent for 10 months with another two months at 98.5 percent and 98.7 percent respectively.
Jim Moohan added: “That has to be commended.
“There is no more uncertainty hanging over the hospital in any manner at all.”
Regular meetings are being held between Hospitalwatch and the health board to ensure there is continued communication.
There are also plans to publish a newsletter to the community on future meetings.
