
# How to make Romy Gill's chilli tofu

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:00:35+00:00**

Author: **Romy Gill**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/food-and-drink/recipes/romy-gill-chilli-paneer-recipe-cooking-instructions-a9175061.html)

Growing up in West Bengal, my upbringing was very multicultural.
My mum would cook us paneer, as that was what Punjabi families would eat, but my Chinese friends would cook tofu with lots of soya – steamed, fried or cooked with spices.
I was not a great fan of tofu while growing but, somehow, now this recipe is so comforting. I go back to it all the time by tweaking with a few ingredients here and there.
Here, I’ve combined tofu with the flavours of India and China to create a truly multicultural dish.

        200g tofu, diced into chunks 2 large red onions, sliced 2 green chillies, chopped15g thinly sliced ginger4tsp soy sauce 3tsp pomegranate molasses2tsp tomato puree 1tsp ground cumin1tsp ground coriander​1tsp salt 1tsp cornflour 6tsp sunflower oil  Handful fresh coriander for garnish 
      
In a bowl, add all the spices, salt, ginger, chillies, soy sauce, pomegranate molasses, corn flour and tofu. Mix all the ingredients together and keep aside .
Heat oil in a pan and add the sliced onions once the oil is hot. Cook for 10 minutes on medium heat. Keep stirring, so that the onions don’t get burnt.
Add tomato puree, mix it well, and cook for another 2 minutes.
Add the marinated tofu and cook further on low heat for another 20 minutes.
Sprinkle with chopped fresh coriander and serve as a sharing dish.
