
# Six-year-old boy helping homeless on the streets of Scotland

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Ward**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/six-year-old-boy-helping-20816636)

A six-year-old boy is helping rough sleepers on the streets of Edinburgh.
Little Alfie Roncero goes out on the streets with his dad Richard to hand out hot drinks on a Saturday morning.
Ex-drug addict Richard, 36, found himself sleeping on the streets during his battle with substance abuse.
When his little boy began asking him 'why people are always sitting on the ground' on Princes Street, he decided to teach Alfie about being kind.
Richard said: "When handing out the coffees Alfie said that 'these people must be really cold'.
"This was Alfie starting to see what being homeless truly means and the struggles they face.
"I wanted to teach him that we need to be kind to people.
"I think it's so important to show our kids that no matter where we end up in life, we should always show love, respect, and compassion to other people."
One woman was so moved by Alfie's gesture in giving her a hot drink that she dubbed him 'a little angel'.
Richard added: "Alfie was safe with his dad the entire time and I feel he learned so much that morning.
"I want to instil morals and values into my son so he grows up not judging people, but willing to reach out and help where he can.
 
"Alfie is a very clever little boy and has such a kind heart.
"I'm really proud to call him my son."
Four years ago, Richard took his daughter, Courtney, 16, out on Christmas Day to distribute warm clothing to rough sleepers.
He said: "A lot of these people are suffering from addiction, which is an illness they don't have a solution for.
"As a result they have been left homeless and don't have anybody.
"Believe me when I say sleeping rough is hell. It's the loneliest place in the world.
"Having someone give them their time, a couple of minutes' chat, something hot to drink and eat really does deliver hope to those who have given up.
"Courtney and I went out onto the streets of Edinburgh on Christmas Day four years ago and handed out five pairs of gloves and five hats to those sleeping rough.
"The experience was so humbling I decided the following year to make up ten little bags and do it again with my daughter.
 
"The year after that Courtney and I had got a group involved and we managed to make 40 massive Santa sacks filled with sleeping bags, jackets and jumpers."
After being kicked out of school aged 15, Richard, who was born in Edinburgh, found that cocaine gave him the confidence he lacked.
But it destroyed his relationships and saw him spend time in prison.
After kicking his habit, he rebuilt his relationship with his daughter, bought a house and got a full-time job.
He decided to form a charity, Steps to Hope, which now has 46 volunteers working at two separate soup kitchens which run on a Monday evening, and a Sunday evening.
Last week the team successfully fed 215 of the most vulnerable people living in Edinburgh. Most of the volunteers are former addicts.
Richard said: "Using our own experience of homelessness and addiction to let our service users identify themselves with us.
"We don't just feed our service users, but we fly a flag of recovery whilst doing it."
