
# Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp cannot repeat Man City ‘mistake’ in crunch title clash

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:52:40+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-boss-jurgen-klopp-cannot-20811175)

Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has been warned not to make the same mistake against Man City - or face the consequences in the title race.
The Reds have opened up a six-point lead on their rivals ahead of the clash between the two sides at Anfield on Sunday.
Last season Liverpool were seven points clear when they travelled to the Etihad in January, but were beaten as City caught them up to defend their crown.
Klopp's men had let City off the hook in a dull contest at Anfield earlier in the campaign, which former Reds midfielder Jamie Redknapp feels was crucial.
"Liverpool cannot make the same mistake they made last season when Manchester City left Anfield with a 0-0 draw," Redknapp told the Mail .
"Jurgen Klopp's men were passive last October. In hindsight, we can see how costly it was that they only picked up one point rather than three.
"This Sunday, they should go for the win and strike a psychological blow."
Despite the draw, Liverpool were perhaps fortunate to take anything from that fixture, with City's Riyad Mahrez missing a penalty in the dying minutes.
The return fixture saw City win 2-1 by the finest of margins, as John Stones's clearance off the line stayed out of the net by millimetres, and proved significant to their surge for the title.
There have already been subtle jibes between both managers ahead of Sunday's match, after Klopp hit back at Pep Guardiola's claims that Sadio Mane was a diver.
The Senegalese forward was booked for simulation against Aston Villa on Saturday, before heading in an injury-time winner.
City boss Guardiola said: "It's happened a lot for Liverpool in the last years [scoring late on]. It's because he's a special talent.
"Sometimes he's diving, sometimes he has this talent to score incredible goals in the last minute. He's a talent."
Klopp took umbrage with his adversary, responding: "Sadio is not a diver. Yes there was a situation in the Aston Villa game where he felt contact and went down.
“Maybe it was not a penalty but there was contact.
“It's not like he jumped over a leg or something. All the other penalties were penalties because he was there.
“If something like that had happened for Manchester City I'm sure they would have wanted a penalty too.”
The teams are both involved in respective Champions League ties this week, before Sunday's clash which kicks off at 4:30pm (GMT).
