
# Ayushmann on copyright violation, Akshay on negative reviews, Disha joins Salman's 'Radhe', Katrina, Siddhant & Ishaan to come together

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:44:27+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/ayushmann-on-copyright-violation-akshay-on-negative-reviews-disha-joins-salmans-radhe-katrina-siddhant-ishaan-to-come-together/articleshow/71857405.cms)

Ayushmann Khurrana's upcoming film 'Bala' has been the talk of the town. The film got itself involved in a lot of controversies and one of them is a remix version of the song 'Don't Be Shy' which has been incorporated in the film. The original song has been composed by Dr Zeus who lashed out at the makers of 'Bala' and rapper Badshah for violating the copyright.
Talking about the same, Ayushmann said, "That’s again the label’s call. They had got the rights from the UK label. They paid the money for that rights and now that they have bought the rights then the rest of the controversies shouldn't arise only."

        Read Also:
        Exclusive! Ayushmann Khurrana on Dr Zeus' copyright violation allegations on 'Bala' song 'Don't Be Shy'
      
Akshay Kumar's 'Housefull 4' which released on October 25 has been scoring huge at the box office. The film opened to mixed reviews from the audience as well as the critics. And today, at the success meet of the film, Akshay opened up about the negative reviews. He said, "I think people who have written negative they will be able to tell. The most important thing is your figures and they talk."

        Read Also:
        Akshay Kumar on negative reviews of 'Housefull 4': The most important thing is the box-office figures
      
Salman Khan's 'Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai' has been slated for Eid 2020 release. And today, Salman took to his social media handles to share the picture of mahurat shot of the film. The photo featured, Jackie Shroff, Disha Patani, Randeep Hooda, Sohail Khan and Atul Agnihotri along with the superstar. Reportedly, the film will start rolling from November 4th.

        Read Also:
        Confirmed: Disha Patani joins Salman Khan for ‘Radhe’ and here’s a glimpse from the film’s muhurat
      
Katrina Kaif who will be next seen in Rohit Shetty's cop drama 'Sooryavanshi' co-starring Akshay Kumar. And now, according to the latest reports, the actress has been approached to feature in a high octane action flick which will also star Siddhant Chaturvedi and Ishaan Khatter.

        Read Also:
        Katrina Kaif to collaborate with Siddhant Chaturvedi and Ishaan Khatter for a high octane action flick?
      
Yami Gautam and Bhumi Pednekar are all set to star in Amar Kaushik's 'Bala'. The film faced flak on social media with several users commenting on how the makers could have cast someone else instead of giving Bhumi a tan through make-up. Talking about the same, Yami said, "No I do not agree with that at all. I feel that she’s a fantastic actor and I’m sure when a director is casting for his film the first and foremost pre requisite is that actor creatively fits into that part or not. If Amar thought of Bhumi, it was for on the basis of her talent. The physical aspect of it, it is not possible for any actor or for any director to, I am not saying it’s impossible but very unlikely that you’ll physically see an actor walking into or looking like your character what you have visioned."

        Read Also:
        Exclusive! Yami Gautam on Bhumi Pednekar’s skin tone controversy: This particular aspect is absolutely not justified
      
The first look of Ashutosh Gowariker's period drama 'Panipat' has been released by the makers of the film. The film stars Arjun Kapoor as Sadashiv Rao Bhau while Sanjay Dutt will be seen playing the role of Afghan king Ahmed Shah Abdali, the opponent to Arjun’s Sadashivrao in the third battle of Panipat, which resulted in a huge defeat of the Maratha army. Kriti Sanon will be seen as the leading lady of the film. The film has been slated for December release.
