
# NFL Week 9 Super Six Preview: Can Ravens QB Lamar Jackson Solve the Sensational Patriots?

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bill Huber**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/billhuber/2019/11/02/nfl-week-9-super-six-preview-can-ravens-qb-lamar-jackson-solve-the-sensational-patriots/)

Here are the best games from the ninth weekend of the NFL season.Houston Texans (5-3) at Jacksonville Jaguars (4-4)
Texans quarterback Deshaun Watson last week became the first quarterback in NFL history with 15-plus passing touchdowns (16) and five-plus rushing touchdowns (five) in his team’s first eight games. He is undefeated in his last three starts against the Jaguars, including a 13-12 win in September.
“He’s playing like an MVP candidate, he really is,” Jaguars coach Doug Marrone said. “What does he have, 16 touchdown passes, five rushing touchdowns? He can scramble. He can get away. It’s amazing his escape-ability. I don’t know what he doesn’t do well. I really don’t. ... I’m sure you guys all have fantasy football teams. But if you had a real football team and you wanted to put a ball in someone’s hand at the end of the game, he’d be the guy you probably would want to put it into. It’s going to be a great challenge for us."
Jacksonville quarterback Gardner Minshew is hot, too. He leads all rookie passers with a 98.8 passer rating and 13 touchdowns. With three touchdown passes last week against the Jets, he became the first quarterback in the modern era with 13-plus touchdowns and two-or-fewer interceptions in his first eight games, according to STATS.
This will be the Jaguars’ seventh trip to London; they are 3-3.

        Indianapolis Colts (5-2) at Pittsburgh Steelers (3-4)
      
This was supposed to be Andrew Luck vs. Ben Roethlisberger. Instead, it’s Jacoby Brissett vs. Mason Rudolph. Brissett has the Colts atop the AFC South with 14 touchdowns vs. three interceptions and a 99.3 passer rating.
“No one views him as a backup going in for a guy,” Indianapolis coach Frank Reich said. “This is Jacoby’s team. It’s his team because he’s won close games.” In fact, all seven of the Colts’ games have been decided by a touchdown or less.
According to STATS, Rudolph is the third player in NFL history to throw more touchdown passes than interceptions in each of his first five career games. Washington’s Mark Rypien in 1988 and Jacksonville’s Gardner Minshew this season are the others. No player has done it in his first six games.
Rudolph rallied the Steelers past the winless Dolphins last week. He’ll need to play better this week to keep the team in the thick of the playoff conversation. Working against them: They’re 0-4 this season against teams with winning records.

        Minnesota Vikings (6-2) at Kansas City Chiefs (5-3)
      
Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes will be a game-time decision. Regardless of his status, the hottest quarterback on the planet is Vikings quarterback Kirk Cousins. Following a Week 4 loss to Chicago, Cousins has 10 touchdowns, one interception and a league-best 137.1 passer rating the past four games. The Vikings have won nine straight when Cousins’ passer rating is better than 100 but have lost six in a row when he falls short of that mark.
You know who else is hot? Vikings receiver Stefon Diggs. After making waves about a trade, he has caught seven-plus passes for 143-plus yards in each of the last three games. That hasn’t been done since Houston’s DeAndre Hopkins in 2015.
While the Vikings have the third-best point differential in the league, the Chiefs have lost three in a row at Arrowhead Stadium, including last week against Green Bay, when Matt Moore got the start in place of Mahomes.
“At the end of the day, I just want to see players healthy, out on the field. You want to play against their best,” Cousins said. “You don’t necessarily want free passes on anything.”
The Chiefs are fourth in scoring; the Vikings are third in points allowed.

        Detroit Lions (3-3-1) at Oakland Raiders (3-4)
      
The Raiders survived a brutal schedule – this will be their first game in Oakland since Week 2 – and now have a chance to make a playoff run. Their final nine opponents have a combined .364 winning percentage. They’d be in much better shape had they not coughed up 21-13 lead in the final quarter last week against Houston. According to STATS, the Raiders have been outscored by 66 points in the fourth quarter since the start of last season.
“It’s going to be rowdy, I know that,” Oakland quarterback Derek Carr said. “I think our fans miss us, and I think we miss them. We need a home game. We need to see each other, that’s for sure. We miss one another.”
In last week’s 31-26 victory over the Giants, Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford threw for 342 yards and three touchdowns to break the team’s three-game losing streak. The ball will be in Stafford’s court again, with running backs Kerryon Johnson and Tra Carson going on injured reserve within the last dozen days.

        Green Bay Packers (7-1) at Los Angeles Chargers (3-5)
      
A change in coach has rejuvenated the Packers’ offense. Chargers coach Anthony Lynn is hoping a change in coordinators will do the same to his offense
Green Bay is 7-1, its best start since opening 13-0 in 2011. The last two weeks, quarterback Aaron Rodgers has been incredible. He passed for 734 yards with eight touchdowns, zero interceptions and a 75.0 percent completion rate. Rodgers’ 152.0 passer rating over that stretch is the fourth-highest by any quarterback in a two-game span since 1990 (minimum 50 attempts).
“I think we’ve definitely found different recipes to victory every week,” Rodgers said. “I think the staples are there, though. We’ve pushed through adversity, we’ve closed out games on both sides of the ball. That’s the fun part, not just having to put up 40 every week and make it work on offense. We’ve won games on defense, we’ve won games with good special teams play and we’re gaining confidence every week.”
The Chargers have a lot of big-name talent on offense but the only time they’ve topped 20 points since Week 1 is against woeful Miami. They’ve been held to less than 40 rushing yards in four consecutive games, the first team since the 1947 Lions to suffer that dubious honor.
“It’s obvious these first eight weeks that we just haven’t been good enough, offensively. There were a handful of games where we should have scored more points and won games,” Rivers said.

        New England Patriots (8-0) at Baltimore Ravens (5-2)
      
The game of the week features the league’s highest-scoring offenses.
The Patriots have dominated at historic levels. New England has 24 more touchdowns than its opponents. The rest of the AFC teams that are in the positive in net touchdowns are plus-22. But the Patriots haven’t faced a good team this season – their eight foes have won 15 games. That will change on Sunday night against the Ravens, who are 6-2 after their bye under coach John Harbaugh.
Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson passed for 143 yards and added 116 rushing yards and one touchdown against Seattle in Week 7. In doing so, he became the first quarterback in NFL history with 100-plus rush yards and a rushing touchdown in consecutive games and the third quarterback of all-time with three games of 100-plus rushing yards in a season.
“I’ve never seen a player like this at the quarterback position,” Patriots defensive back Devin McCourty said. "Obviously, his speed (and) the way he’s able to throw the ball down the field. You watch some games where he’s moving around the pocket, he’s close to running, he sees a guy downfield and all of a sudden he flicks his wrist and it’s 50 yards down the field easily.”
The Patriots haven’t allowed a team to score 14 points all season. They pace the league in scoring defense (7.6), sacks (31) and takeaways (25). The last team to lead the league in those three categories through Week 8 was the Chiefs in 1969, according to STATS.
