
# 'Less comfortable' Pep Clotet blamed Birmingham City's Cardiff defeat on this

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:15:48+00:00**

Author: **Brian Dick, https://www.facebook.com/blueswriterbriandick/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/less-comfortable-pep-clotet-blamed-17191284)

Pep Clotet insisted Birmingham City ’s defeat to Cardiff City had more to do with their own errant finishing than the performance of referee Andrew Madley.
  Blues were beaten 4-2 in rainy south Wales , with Joe Ralls scoring a hat-trick, including two penalties.
The first of those came when Blues were 1-0 up and utterly dominating the Bluebirds, having taken the lead through Kristian Pedersen and hit the goal frame through Jude Bellingham and Dan Crowley.
That 30th minute penalty, awarded for pulling at a defensive corner, invigorated the hosts who went ahead eight minutes later and despite being reduced to ten men early in the second period always had their noses in front.
“It was a game with a little bit of everything, a lot of emotion, a lot of intensity,” Clotet said.
“For us, we feel we  leave Cardiff without receiving what we deserve.  I think the big difference between both teams was the way Cardiff had all the luck when it comes to transforming those chances - and we didn’t.
 
“We knew it was a very tough place, it was a very difficult game for us because it’s very easy to get sucked into Cardiff’s football and make it very difficult for yourself.
“But I think the players in the first half started very well and put out the football we wanted and created a lot of chances - in total 25 shots on goal - and we still only managed to score two goals.
“It’s a platform for us to understand we need to make sure we put the game to bed as soon as we can. That’s the reality.
“As soon as Cardiff had the opportunity to get back into the game on that penalty, they took it.  
“That was probably the difference, they took all the opportunities they had to get back into the game and for us it was hard work because we had to build a lot to make chances.  
“But the first half that I saw is the way I want Birmingham City to play.”
Asked about the penalty and Madley’s overall display he said: “The fourth official told us in the game it was a pull in the box. It was difficult to for me to see if the evidence in there.  
“We are in a position the only thing we can do is carry on with any decision he takes and be prepared.  
“I was less comfortable with the fact I wanted our team to be able to transform into more goals the chances that we had.  
“Obviously I think being a referee is a very difficult game, the only thing we need to demand from them is every decision we  make is very, very clear because every decision changes games and changes results.”
