
# Westin Hotels launches wellness programme for kids across the UAE

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Kelly Johnstone**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/kids/421625-westin-hotels-launches-wellness-programme-for-kids-across-the-uae)

Throughout November Westin Hotels is laying on a wellness extravaganza for the whole family.With a heap of activities being laid on to encourage everyone from the littlest guests to their mums and dads, plus the whole family in between, to generally live well – and who doesn't want to embrace that opportunity?The Westin Wellness Domes are popping up across Dubai and Abu Dhabi where the whole tribe can take a break from the craziness of life – even if it's just for an hour or so.Thanks to some help from a variety of experts from doctors and dentists to dieticians, there is now a special kid-friendly menu on offer, and there's not a nugget, hot dog or pizza in sight!Reducing sugar – and avoiding the inevitable sugar high – is just one of the focuses along with introducing healthy fats, such as Omega three, into their diets.Fancy giving some healthy recipes? These three recipes will be a huge hit with even the fussiest of eaters – phew!Here are some simple, clean recipes from Westin’s Eat Well Menu for Kids to help reduce sugar and inject more healthy fats into their nutrition, helping them to be their happy, energised selves.FRUIT SMOOTHIEServes: sixIngredients:1 cup strawberries1 cup blueberries2 bananas1 cup low fat milk1 tbsp. honey1.5 cups iceTo garnish:1 orange slice1 strawberry (sliced)2 raspberries3.5 tbsp. ground flaxseedDirections:1. Place all of the ingredients in a blender and blend until smooth.To serve:1. Pour into a glass or plastic beaker to serve.2. Garnish with the sliced strawberry, the raspberries and the orange slice.MUESLIServes: sixIngredients:3 tbsp. raisins3 tbsp. roasted sliced almonds1 ½ tsp. brown sugar3 tbsp. sunflower seeds3 tbsp. dried cranberries¼ cup low fat vanilla yogurt½ cup Large flake rolled oats3 tbsp. wheat germ3 tbsp. wheat bran3 tbsp. oat bran1 cup low fat milk1 cup low fat yogurt¼ cup honeyDirections:1. Place rolled oats, wheat germ, wheat bran and oat bran in an air tight container.2. Mix in the yogurt and milk, then put the lid on and let it sit in the fridge for eight hours.
To serve:1. Place roasted rolled oats in a bowl.2. Place 1 oz. of each ingredient into small containers (raisins, sliced almonds, sunflower seeds, dried cranberries, brown sugar, vanilla yogurt, honey).3. Let kids add the ingredients they fancy to their oats.

        SALMON WITH SOBA NOODLES
        
        Serves: two
      
Ingredients:8 oz. salmon fillets1 carrot cut julienne3 green onions cut julienne6 oz. soba noodles1 red pepper cut julienne4 tsp. sesame oil2 tbsp. sesame seeds1 slice fresh ginger cut julienne1.5 tbsp. light soy sauce5 tbsp. orange juiceCilantro to garnish
Directions:1. Pre-heat the oven to 400F (205C).2. In a small fry pan toast sesame seeds and cool.3. Cut parchment paper twice the size of salmon fillets4. Place salmon fillets in the middle of the parchment paper and place vegetables and ginger on top of each salmon fillet.5. Drizzle the sesame oil and orange juice over the salmon fillet and season with salt and pepper.6. Carefully fold the parchment paper over the salmon and seal the edges.7. Bake for 12-15 minutes.8. Cook noodles until they are al dente.9. Remove the salmon fillet from the oven and let cool for a few minutes before opening.
To serve:1. Place the salmon fillet and vegetables on top of the noodles then pour over the juice from the parchment paper.2. Garnish with toasted sesame seeds, lemon slice and sprig of Cilantro.

        Westin Wellness Domes across Dubai and Abu Dhabi, www.wellnessbywestin.com
      
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
