
# Artist Rhys Douglas Farrell wins mural art competition at Inglewood's Avli on Atlantic

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:39:42+00:00**

Author: **Andrea Cox**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/life/homes/artist-rhys-douglas-farrell-wins-mural-art-competition-at-inglewoods-avli-on-atlantic)

In Rhys Douglas Farrell’s art piece, Migration, patterned triangular geometric forms, bathed in bold and saturated blues and greens takes viewers on a poignant emotional journey of abstraction, representing the historical genesis of Calgary’s Inglewood community.
Farrell’s mural was chosen as the top contender in a privately funded public art competition.
The  four metre by five metremural will be painted directly onto the exterior east side of the Avli on Atlantic mixed-use condominium project on Ninth Avenue in Inglewood. The piece will be a lasting accessible artistic legacy, on display for all to see.
“Having great art is a component of a great city. It’s something that gets people talking. It creates different emotions,” says Brian Kernick, president of Greenview Developments, the developer behind Avli on Atlantic and the commissioner of the art and competition.
The inspiration to include a public art component to the residential project evolved early on and came from the Jeremy Sturgess-designed building itself and from the neighbourhood.
“The building is a work of art and Inglewood is known as a very vibrant and artistic community. It was a natural progression,” says Kernick.
A call for submissions was put out last year. “We left the requirements quite open, except for anti graffiti coding, but we really wanted a local artist from Alberta,” says Kernick.
An expert panel, composed of local artists, architects and community members, was chosen to narrow down the submissions to three — Farrell’s Migration, Kingmaker’s Collective’s Close at hand; in your hands, and Materia, by Cheka Creative Inc.
The three finalists were then given $1,000 each to create a mockup of their entry, each of which was displayed at the Avli Presentation Centre, where feedback from the public was encouraged, providing fodder for the panel’s decision for the contest’s winner.
Farrell’s Migration, which will be executed using acrylic and spray paint, will be applied directly to the building at ground level and span approximately two stories, overlooking a public courtyard and the Hose & Hound pub.
The abstract geometric piece features triangles that fade from dark blue to white and then from white to dark green, representing the land and the sky.
“Inglewood has a bird sanctuary and people — hence land and sky — and I wanted to reference the creation of Inglewood, the migration of people and animals and how that goes into creating a city or town,” says the 27-year-old Farrell.
Known for his flow between the genres of abstract geometric art and op-art, where optical illusions are created by colour, form and texture, Farrell, a graduate of the Alberta University of the Arts, says that much of his style inspiration for Migration came from residencies he recently completed in Malaysia, Sicily and Spain.
“Public art makes people think about things that they wouldn’t normally think about. It changes mood and everyday activity.  It is nectar for big cities. It’s a breath of fresh air, for sure,” says Farrell.
Farrell’s work peppers the city of Calgary — check out the Beltline Urban Mural Project on 14th Street and 11th Avenue. (Look up at the Seneal Camera building). He shows at the Herringer Kiss Gallery, and this year his work will be featured internationally.
Migration will be installed in the spring, when the weather warms up. It will take approximately seven days to paint.
Possessions have begun at Avli, and almost 20 homeowners have moved into the seven-storey, 65-unit luxury development. “And there will be many more in the upcoming weeks,” says Kernick.
The mixed-use development offers a selection of custom-designed one- and two-bedroom plus den homes, including four live-work homes and seven penthouse suites. A burgeoning main floor retail component will offer amenities, including an F45 Gym, which will be opening its doors in the next few months. The building is 85 per cent sold and homes start in the low $300,000s.
