
# Traffic wardens chillingly told 'I stalk, I hunt, I kill' as they issue ticket

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:35:05+00:00**

Author: **Kelly-Ann Mills, Toni Guillot, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/traffic-wardens-chillingly-told-i-20787095)

A man told a traffic warden "You better watch your back; I stalk, I hunt, I kill", after he was slapped with a parking ticket, a court has heard.
Unemployed Blaine McCarthy launched a tirade of abuse when he saw a penalty notice being placed on his white Transit van parked outside a Travelodge in Carlisle.
The 26-year-old appeared at Teesside Magistrates’ Court where he pleaded guilty to using threatening, abusive, insulting words or behaviour during the incident in March this year, Gazette Live reports.
Paul Doney, prosecuting, said a parking ticket was displayed in the vehicle but it had been expired for 15 minutes.
 
"Two parking wardens were carrying out their regular duties when they noticed the van had an invalid ticket," Mr Doney said.
"The officers began taking photos and issued a penalty notice when two men appeared, one being the defendant, who shouted 'Oi, that's my van, what the f*** are you doing?'."
The court heard how the warden went on to explain it was "too late" as a ticket had already been issued.
However, the defendant then subjected the wardens to a torrent of abuse and made threats towards them.
It was heard that McCarthy paced around the two workers and got "right up to one of them".
 
"Both were very angry and aggressive," Mr Doney said.
The court heard how the wardens began to walk away but McCarthy continued to shout abuse.
Mr Doney added: "The defendant then told the warden, 'You better watch your back; I stalk, I hunt, I kill'."
In mitigation, the court heard McCarthy acted "in the heat of the moment" and did not intend to cause anyone any harm or fear.
"He lost his temper and acted on impulse," his solicitor said.
"He accepts his behaviour wasn't appropriate in the circumstances and that a number of choice words were used which would have caused the wardens to feel fearful."
McCarthy has three convictions for 11 offences on his record.
McCarthy, of Blackhall Sands, Acklam, was fined £80 and ordered to pay £50 compensation to each of the traffic wardens.
