
# 15 dead, 4 injured in attacks on security posts in Southern Thailand

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:00:59+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/15-dead-4-injured-attacks-security-posts-southern-thailand)

YALA (Nov 6): Attacks on two security posts about 3km apart here yesterday, have left 15 dead, including two women, as well as four others injured.
Yala Region Police chief Maj Gen Pol Prabpal Meemongkol said in the incidents which occurred at about 10.15 pm (local time) yesterday, the security posts in the villages of Thung Sadao and Thanglum in the district of Lampaya were believed to have been attacked by a group of at least 20 armed members.
He said dead victims comprised six volunteers, including a husband and wife, three village head assistants and a village doctor working at the security post, as well as five civilians who were at the scene.
“During the incident, the volunteers on duty at two security posts were attacked by a group of armed members, which resulted in fierce shootings between both sides. Homemade bombs were also detonated, causing injury to civilians at the scene.
“Eight victims died at the scene, while seven others succumbed at the Yala Hospital. Four others who were injured are being treated at the same hospital.
"The group of assailants also escaped with eight weapons," he said when contacted here today.
Prabpal said the attackers also bombed electric poles, burned tyres and scattered nails along the Lampaya-Lammai route in order to disrupt the efforts by authorities to track them down.
"Initial investigations by the police found that the assailants were members of an armed group active in the area," he said.
Meanwhile, he said the bomb disposal unit found a homemade bomb weighing 5-10kg in an iron box by the road. The bomb was later destroyed.
