
# Proton confident of achieving sales of 100,000 units this year

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:05:19+00:00**

Author: **Wong Ee Lin**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/proton-confident-achieving-sales-100000-units-year)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 1): Sales of Proton cars continues to rise, with 9,503 units sold in October for a cumulative 10-month figure of 79,833 units.
The January-October sales represents 46% growth compared with the same period last year, the national carmaker said in a statement today.
The company's market share is estimated at 16%, which is a healthy 5.2% increase over the previous year, it added.
This is remarkable considering that the total industry volume (TIV) has shrunk by 1.3%.
Proton said it has also strengthened its hold on second place in the overall sales table, a position it is confident of maintaining to the end of 2019.
“We are humbled by the response our products have received from Malaysian car buyers,” said Proton Holdings Bhd’s Chief Executive Officer Dr Li Chunrong.
“The hard work has paid off with increased sales and we are now confident of being able to sell 100,000 units this year, providing us with a solid base to move forward in 2020 and beyond,” Li added.
Proton noted that its Proton X70’s success story continued for a 10th consecutive month, as it retained its position at the top of the premium and executive SUV sales rankings.
Over 24,000 units of the X70 have been delivered so far, making it Malaysia’s fastest-selling C-segment SUV and proving that demand is still healthy.
The Proton Saga, on the other hand, has achieved a 51-month sales high. “Over 28,000 bookings have been received thus far and in October, the model posted its highest sales figure for over four years,” said Proton.
A total of 4,273 units of Proton Saga were sold last month, while for the first 10 months of the year, the total units sold stood at 30,331 — a 26% increase from last year.
“Similarly, the Exora, Iriz and Persona have also shown an increase in sales and as a whole, sales for the trio along with the Saga have increased by 21% thus far this year,” said Proton.
They also accounted for 78% of Proton’s total sales in October and for the whole year, the figure now stands at 68%.
Additionally, four new 3S/4S outlets will be added to the dealer network in October. Proton now has 108 3S/4S outlets.
“As we grow the number of 3S/4S outlets, we can then deliver an improved brand experience to more Malaysian car buyers. Proton will continue to focus on improving customer service levels as we know it is one of the keys to building long-term brand loyalty,” said Li.
