
# Emperador earnings steady at ₱5.3 billion

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:00:56+00:00**

Author: **James A. Loyola**

Original: [Manila Bulletin Business](https://business.mb.com.ph/2019/11/07/emperador-earnings-steady-at-%e2%82%b15-3-billion/)

Emperador Inc., the liquor arm of Alliance Global Group, Inc., reported that its net income inched up to ₱5.3 billion in the first nine months of 2019 from the ₱5.2 billion registered in the same period last year.
In a disclosure to the Philippine Stock Exchange, the firm said it saw an 11 percent increase in revenues in the first nine months of this year, amounting to ₱33.8 billion.
“Long-term growth in international operations should help maintain and diversify profitability,” said Emperador President Winston Co.
He noted that, “our luxury single malt whisky, The Dalmore, is leading our premium Scotch whisky business followed by Fettercairn, Tamnavulin, Jura, and Shackleton.”
“And we have a compelling brandy portfolio comprised of the world’s leading brandy by volume, Emperador, Spanish brandies Fundador and Tres Cepas, and Mexican brandy Presidente,” Co added.
Meanwhile, the company has extended its two-year share buyback of up to ₱5 billion that ended in May. Emperador Inc. can repurchase up to ₱3 billion for another 12 months ending on May 16, 2020.
Since the start of the buyback two years ago, about 392.65 million shares have been bought back, amounting to approximately ₱2.83 billion.
Emperador owns Emperador Distillers, Inc., Scotch whisky maker Whyte and Mackay Group, and Bodegas Fundador in Spain.
