
# Last day to enter: Win one of 40 smart lighting prizes from REAFOO [United States, France, Italy, Spain]

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:39:50+00:00**

Author: **Contest Coordinator**

Original: [Android Police](https://www.androidpolice.com/2019/11/01/giveaway-reafoo-smart-lighting-bulbs-strip/)

The only thing better than outfitting your home with WiFI-connected LED smart lightbulbs that can be controlled with Google Assistant or Alexa is owning those same smart bulbs without paying a dime. Over the course of five days, forty lucky Android Police readers will be randomly chosen to receive one of several smart light products from REAFOO. Here's how you can sign up.
The connected home accessories brand, REAFOO, is giving away some of its most popular smart lighting accessories: 34 contestants will win a single pack of the REAFOO Smart Light Bulb, three winners will receive a dual pack of REAFOO Smart Light Bulbs, and the final three contestants will earn the grand prize, a Smart WiFi LED Strip Light from REAFOO. To register for your chance to win, complete any of the tasks listed at the bottom of this page. Good luck!
If you'd rather not cross your fingers and hope to be one of the lucky 40 to win a giveaway item, you can purchase your own REAFOO smart bulbs and strip lights right now for a discounted price. For a limited time, buy a 2-pack of REAFOO Smart Light Bulbs for only $15.74 (down from $20.99) when you use this coupon code at checkout: IM3RV3ME. You can also purchase a Smart WiFi LED Strip Light from REAFOO for just $23.99 (down from $29.99), redeemable with this code: 5C4ORDSM.
The contest will run from October 29th, 2019 until 11:59PM Pacific Time on November 2nd, 2019. Forty winners will be selected to receive either a single REAFOO Smart Light Bulb, a 2-pack of REAFOO Smart Light Bulbs, or a Smart WiFi LED Strip Light from REAFOO.
The contest is only open to residents of the United States (excluding territories), France, Italy, and Spain.

        REAFOO Smart Light Products Giveaway
      
