
# Dhaka Residential Model College opens probe into student's death by electrocution amid protests

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:00:00+00:00**

Author: **bdnews24.com**

Original: [Bdnews24](https://bdnews24.com/bangladesh/2019/11/02/dhaka-residential-model-college-opens-probe-into-student-s-death-by-electrocution-amid-protests)


        Dhaka Residential Model College has opened an investigation into the death of a student who was electrocuted during a programme at the institution amid protests by his peers.
      
Nayeemul Abrar, 15, a nonresident student of class nine, received electric shock from a power generator set up behind a stage erected for “Ki Ananda”, a function of the daily Prothom Alo’s magazine for juveniles Kishor Alo, on Friday afternoon
Students launched protests on the campus on Saturday blaming the mismanagement and negligence of the authorities for Abrar's death.
They formed a human chain in front of the college's western entrance demanding a proper probe into the incident and the release of security camera footage by organisers Prothom Alo within 72 hours.
"We will decide on further action if the organisers of Friday's event fail to come out and admit the extent of their culpability," said a student protester.
The student also questioned the decisions to continue the programme after the incident and to take Abrar to a hospital in Mohakhali rather than a hospital nearby.
The college's Principal Brig Gen Kazi Shamim Farhad later faced the disgruntled students and assured them of a proper investigation.
"A three-strong probe panel has been formed to look into the death of ninth grader Nayeemul Abrar. It will report back within seven days," he told bdnews24.com.
The probe panel has already started the investigation, according to a teacher.
"The committee members will also seek an explanation from the Kishor Alo authorities.
They will look into the reasons and the persons at fault for the incident and make recommendations accordingly."
Abrar, who hails from Noakhali, lived with his family at the capital's Agargaon.
Police transferred the body to the family without post-mortem examination on their request, said Mohammadpur Police OC GG Biswas.
"Abrar was electrocuted behind the stage set up for the 'Ki Ananda' programme. The organisers took him to Mohakhali's Universal Medical College Hospital (formerly known as Aysha Memorial Specialised Hospital) where doctors pronounced him dead," the OC said.
"He was taken to Aysha Memorial Hospital by the organisers instead of the nearby Suhrawardy Hospital," a teacher said on condition of anonymity.
Universal Medical College Hospital was a stakeholder in the event, according to the teacher.
Kishor Alo Editor Anisul Hoque expressed 'deep regret' over the death of Abrar in a Facebook post.
Abrar was rushed to an emergency medical camp on the campus where two FCPS doctors attended to him and advised taking him to a hospital, he wrote.
