
# Michelle Keegan launches new party collection with Very for Christmas 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:52:36+00:00**

Author: **Melisha Kaur, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/melisha-kaur/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/style/celebrity-fashion/michelle-keegan-very-dresses-christmas-20826336)

She is loved by the nation not only for her acting skills, but for her immaculate beauty and style.
And Michelle Keegan is looking stunning as ever as she stars in her latest collection for online retailer Very, which recently launched on very.co.uk in time for the Christmas party season.
The 32-year-old British actress, who best known for starring in Coronation Street, poses in a range of styles from the partywear collection - including a glitzy cobalt midi dress (£35).
There are 25 items to choose from in Michelle's new Very clothing range, with prices starting from just £25.
The brunette bombshell looks undeniably glamorous in a black midi-dress with a plunging neckline (£35).
Adding some colour to the range, the actress can also be seen flaunting her enviable figure in a bright green mini-dress with puffed sleeves and sweetheart neckline (£65).
Speaking of the new line, Michelle said: “This collection is all about being bolder with your style and standing out from the crowd!
"I wanted to incorporate statement sequin looks alongside more pared back tailored pieces to make sure that there is something for everyone to look sensational this party season!”
As well as stunning partywear pieces, the new Michelle Keegan for Very range includes cosy winter items like a Premium Faux Fur Coat in navy (£75) and a Long Sleeve Denim Bodycon Dress in black (£45).
The British star recently revealed that the beauty trick she uses to achieve her flawless appearance is LVL lash lifts.
Looking for more party outfits? Here's our roundup of the best little black dresses for every occasion under £60.
