
# Man Utd's January transfer shortlist - and the likelihood the deals will happen ranked

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:48:17+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-utds-january-transfer-shortlist-20832631)

Manchester United's biggest problem has been up front this season.
While the likes of Manchester City, Liverpool and, of course, Leicester City, have torn teams apart, the Red Devils have been firing blanks.
The lack of goals has had a damaging effect on Manchester United's standing in the league, with the club floundering down in tenth after 11 games played.
The January transfer window is fast-approaching and United have been linked to a whole host of players from across the continent.
Here we look at nine names who have continually cropped up and rate Manchester United's chances of bringing them to Old Trafford in the winter transfer window.

        Current club: Bayer Leverkusen
      

        Likelihood of deal: 2/5
      
A dream signing, but he'd cost Man United around £80million.
He fits what Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is going for in that he's young, but may need time to settle into a new country and at a club with a new style of play.

        Current club: Dortmund
      

        Likelihood of deal: 1/5
      
United have been linked to the former Man City forward for some time now, and his price tag has steadily increased all the while.
It's unlikely Sancho will leave mid-season, given the amount he'd cost, but would likely re-emerge as a target in the summer window.

        Current club: RB Leipzig
      

        Likelihood of deal: 2/5
      
Has been linked with a number of top clubs across Europe for a few years now but has yet to leave the Bundesliga.
The young striker has a £26million release clause in his contract, but it's unlikely the Red Devils are going to trigger this in January. He's too similar to the strikers already at United and isn't the target man they need.

        Current club: RB Salzburg
      

        Likelihood of deal: 4/5
      
Born in Leeds, Haaland has connections to England and is keen to play in the Premier League.
He also has connections to Solskjaer, having played under his compatriot at Molde, and looks destined to represented Man United one day. He'll likely have to wait until the summer though.

        Current club: Sporting Lisbon
      

        Likelihood of deal: 2/5
      
Manchester United were in hot pursuit of the attacking midfielder all summer but instead splashed their cash on Harry Maguire.
It's unlikely he will be top of the list in the January transfer window, given an out-an-out forward is what they really need.

        Current club: Lyon
      

        Likelihood of deal: 3/5
      
Speculation linking the Frenchman to Old Trafford has cooled in recent months, but he remains a Manchester United target nonetheless.
Lethal in front of goal, Dembele is arguably exactly what United need - someone to convert chances - but it would probably take too much back and forth over the price to get the deal done in January.

        Current club: Leicester City
      

        Likelihood of deal: 4/5
      
Maddison is right at the top of Manchester United's transfer wishlist, but the Foxes star is an attacking midfielder rather than a forward.
Maddison appears keen on signing for the Red Devils, and it looks as if the transfer will happen at some point, but January seems a bit soon - especially as he'll cost upwards of £80million.

        Current club: Bayern Munich
      

        Likelihood of deal: 3/5
      
Recently emerged as a United target, and is desirable as he can play in a number of positions - both as an attacking midfielder or a lone forward.
Muller is looking for a new challenge, but United will face stiff competition for his signature.

        Current club: Juventus
      

        Likelihood of deal: 5/5
      
The most likely deal to happen, given he can be signed on the cheap, he's readily available and United are very keen on him.
Mandzukic is older than everyone else on this list, and will only be signed as a stop-gap until United find a more permanent solution to their goalscoring problems in the summer window.
