
# BBC breakfast's Dan Walker defends Strictly's Mike Bushell following fix claims

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:19:30+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/bbc-breakfasts-dan-walker-defends-20811312)

BBC breakfast presenter Dan Walker, 42, launched into a rant on the morning show on Monday in order to defend his colleague Mike Bushell, 53.
The anchor defended the Strictly Come Dancing hopeful after he and professional partner Katya Jones were saved by judges Shirley Ballas, Motsi Mabuse, Craig Revel Horwood and Bruno Tonioli on Sunday night's Strictly Come Dancing.
Mike was in the bottom two - for the third week in a row - after failing to secure votes after performing a fun Charleston on Saturday night alongside Viscountess Emma Weymouth and Aljaz Skorjanec.
After taking part in the head to head dance off, Mike secured a place in next week's show resulting in Emma being axed from the dancing show - which led to some viewers claiming it was a fix.
 
Not standing for the accusations, Dan used his platform on BBC breakfast to share his anger about Mike being "given grief" and that the funny chap deserved to make it through as "he was a better performer in the dance off."
Dan began: "I'm getting increasingly annoyed with people giving [Mike] grief.
"Some of it is getting a bit cruel. All he's doing is enjoying himself.
"He's trying really hard and all four of the judges said he was the better performer in the dance off than the Viscountess who went home."
 
 
Shutting down claims that Mike is being saved because he is employed by the BBC, Dan told: "He's certainly not being kept in there because he's working for the BBC.
"That's a ridiculous accusation."
Dan's rant comes after Strictly and the judges are facing accusations of being biased toward Mike and fixing it to keep him dancing, especially after the dance off saw pro Katya make a stumble.
Viewers of the show took to  Twitter  to voice their outrage and pose their theories.
 
One wrote: "@BrunoTonioli @CraigRevHorwood @ShirleyBallas @MOTSI_MABUSE this series more than ever is clearly a FIX! Mike was in the dance off again last night but Emma W was sent home?! #whatajoke #Strictly #StrictlyComeDancing #bbc1 #FIX #strictlyspoiler."
Another penned: "Now we know #Strictly is a fix. No way Mike's dance with all those mistakes was worth more than 6s & he keeps getting dances that 'suit him.' About time he had one of the more difficult dances like samba or rumba!"
A third was straight to the point, writing: "The judges clearly fix the vote #strictly mike and katya that is."
 
A fourth wanted to know why Mike and Katya scored higher than Emma Barton and Anton du Beke during Saturday's show.
"It's a fix," the fan wrote, "He was awful strictly...Emma and anton much better. #Strictly."
This series of Strictly has seen a number of eviction controversies - and fans haven't always been so civil.
Mike has received death threats at the hands of online trolls, as has head judge Shirley Ballas.
Katya has even quit social media in protest at the threats aimed at Mike.
