
# Chorney-Booth: Hart Healthy Food draws on a strong family legacy

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:00:52+00:00**

Author: **Elizabeth Chorney-Booth**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/life/food/chorney-booth-hart-healthy-food-draws-on-a-strong-family-legacy)

When Alex “Beans” Hart was growing up, she didn’t love the way her body looked or felt. As a member of Calgary’s famed Hart family and the youngest daughter of Bret Hart, one of the world’s most celebrated professional wrestlers, athleticism was a big part of Hart’s world and as a bigger kid, she didn’t feel like she fit in.
As she got older, Hart started training to be a WWE Diva and she was proud of her new sense of strength and muscularity. But after having a baby, Hart went back to feeling self-conscious about her body. She tried to go back to the healthy meal plan she’d been on in her training days, but raising a young child meant that she didn’t have the time to make the healthy whole food meals she craved. Knowing that a lot of other people were also looking for quick and easy eats, she set to dreaming up a meal service that emphasized fuelling the body, rather than just feeding it.
Hart’s initial idea of a meal kit service is still in the works, but in the meantime she’s opened a new counter-service restaurant called Hart Healthy Food, nestled into the rapidly developing East Village. The locale may be familiar to Hart family historians — when Hart was looking for a lease she knew that her aunt and uncle Georgia and BJ Annis ran a gym in the area, but since the neighbourhood has gone through so much development, neither she nor her father could place exactly where it was. It was only after she signed the lease that Hart realized her new restaurant sits on the very ground where BJ’s Gym, a de facto clubhouse for the family and their circle of wrestling friends, once stood. That reveal signalled to Hart that something special was in the works.
Hart Healthy Food looks nothing like an old gym — the new build has a modern industrial look to it, with some pretty accents to keep things comfortable and welcoming. There’s a microgreen cultivator along one wall, a tree growing from the centre of one of the tables and plenty of seating for anyone who wants a quick meal or is looking to hunker down with a cup of coffee.
“I wanted to build a product where people knew where their food was coming from and use local suppliers from around Alberta,” Hart said. “I’m so proud to be a Hart. I wanted to show my own gratitude to Calgary by giving them a place they could come and also feel like they’re part of the family.”
Food-wise, the emphasis is on wholesomeness, but Hart wanted it to be satisfying as well. Chef Sherin Samuel (who has previously cooked at Rouge and Pigeonhole, among other fine dining restaurants) created a core menu that is ideal for breakfast, lunch, or an early dinner. There’s hearty avocado toast ($12) topped with sun-dried cherry tomatoes, cheddar cheese and microgreens, a warm savoury breakfast bowl ($15), thick grilled cheese sandwiches ($10) and health-savvy smoothies in green, fruit and charcoal varieties ($12). Hart works with local producers as much as possible, stocking the kitchen with food from Community Meats and Broxburn Vegetables and serving Wild Tea kombucha and beer from Annex Ales.
Hart Healthy Food is located at 612 5th St. S.E. The restaurant can be reached at 403-453-8259 or harthealthyfood.com.
***
The Coup (924 17th Ave. S.W.), arguably Calgary’s best-known vegetarian restaurant, has announced that it will be closing down, with plans to reopen later in 2020 as a “reinvented” concept. Coup fans still have plenty of time to drop in to have one last tempeh shawarma — the restaurant doesn’t have a set closure date, but plans to be open for at least a couple of months and is still taking bookings for holiday parties. For more information, visit thecoup.ca.
Speaking of holiday parties, Ricardo’s Hideaway (1530 5th St. S.W.) will transform itself into a Christmas tiki bar from Nov. 28 to Dec. 31 as part of Sippin’ Santa, a pop-up organization setting up similar bars all over North America. Featured drinks will include the Kris Kringle Colada, the shareable spiced Jingle Bowl, and the Sippin’ Santa, a rum and gingerbread concoction. The pop-up will be open to the public, with some dates reserved for private holiday parties. And for those who like their Christmas libations a little less tropical, the Miracle on First Street pop-up (which comes from the same parent company that facilitates Sippin’ Santa) will be returning to Proof (1302 1st St. S.W.) on Nov. 25 through Dec. 24 and promises to be even bigger than last year’s Christmas extravaganza.
Finally, Eat North’s Blue Jay Café pop-up is returning to the Oak Tree Tavern Nov. 20-23, this time with a holiday theme and a matching holiday menu. Over 20 country musicians from Western Canada will participate in the intimate songwriter circle series. The event will support the Community Kitchen Program of Calgary and tickets can be purchased through eatnorth.com or thebluejaycafe.ca.

        Elizabeth Chorney-Booth can be reached at elizabooth@gmail.com. Follow her on Twitter at @elizaboothy or Instagram at @elizabooth.
      
