
# 'Panipat': Arjun Kapoor introduces Mohnish Bahl as Nana Saheb Peshwa

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:06:11+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/panipat-arjun-kapoor-introduces-mohnish-bahl-as-nana-saheb-peshwa/articleshow/71951544.cms)

Ace director Ashutosh Gowariker is all set to narrate the historical Third Battle of Panipat with his upcoming period drama 'Panipat'. The film features Arjun Kapoor in the lead essaying the role of Maratha warrior Sadashiv Rao Bhau. The trailer of the film was recently revealed and was has been met with huge appreciation from B-town celebs and the audience.
The film recounts the events that led up to one of the mightiest battles ever fought in the history of India. Just a while ago, Arjun Kapoor took to his social media handles to introduce Mohnish Bahl as Nana Saheb Peshwa aka Balaji Baji Rao, a Maratha Peshwa. This will be the first time the actor will be seen in a period drama. Sharing the first look, Arjun captioned, "Nana Saheb Peshwa - A King is governed by the blood running through his veins. #PanipatLook #Panipat #Dec6"
The film also stars Sanjay Dutt and Kriti Sanon in the lead roles. Sanjay Dutt plays the role of Afghan king Ahmed Shah Abdali, the opponent to Arjun’s Sadashivrao in the third battle of Panipat, which resulted in a huge defeat of the Maratha army.
Helmed by Ashutosh Gowariker and produced by Sunita Gowariker and Rohit Shelatkar, 'Panipat' will hit the screens on December 6 this year. Veteran actress Padmini Kolhapure will also play a pivotal role in the film.
