
# MMA fighter Conor McGregor fined €1,000 over Dublin pub assault

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:28:56+00:00**

Author: **Rory Carroll**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/01/mma-fighter-conor-mcgregor-fined-1000-over-dublin-pub-assault)


        Mixed martial arts star punched customer who rejected offer of a shot of his whiskey
      
The Irish mixed martial arts fighter Conor McGregor has been fined €1,000 (£850) for assaulting a man in a Dublin pub who rejected his offer of a drink.
A Dublin court convicted McGregor, 31, on Friday of assaulting Desmond Keogh at the Marble Arch pub on 6 April, an incident caught on CCTV.
Judge Treasa Kelly decided against a custodial sentence, saying McGregor had pleaded guilty, expressed remorse and compensated the victim.
In the CCTV footage McGregor offered customers shots of his whiskey, Proper No. Twelve. Keogh, seated at the bar, refused the glass. McGregor then punched him before being hustled out by companions.
After the celebrity news website TMZ.com ran the footage staff at an Irish bar in Florida filmed themselves pouring the brand, which McGregor launched last year, down the toilet.
In a separate case last year McGregor was charged with three counts of assault and one count of criminal mischief after police said he attacked a charter bus in New York carrying UFC fighters. He pleaded guilty to a reduced disorderly conduct charge in that case.
McGregor announced his retirement from the octagon in March. Last month he announced a comeback, saying he will fight an undisclosed UFC opponent in Las Vegas in January.
