
# Tory MP Ross Thomson quits after grope claim by Labour MP Paul Sweeney

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:42:21+00:00**

Author: **Oliver Milne, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/oliver-milne/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/tory-mp-ross-thomson-quits-20802358)

A Conservative MP Ross Thomson has announced he is standing down at the general election after being accused of sexually assaulting a Labour MP in a Commons bar.
Mr Thomson said he had made the "hardest decision of my life" not to contest the seat for Aberdeen South after it emerged that Labour MP Paul Sweeney had reported him to Westminster's standards watchdog for allegedly groping him.
Mr Thomson denies any wrongdoing and said that "malicious allegations" had made his life "a living hell".
He added in a statement: "This is a political smear and I will continue to fight to clear my name. I will see this investigatory process through to a conclusion.
"I have suffered a level of personal abuse that has affected my health, my mental wellbeing and my staff. It has been a level of abuse that I never imagined possible."
The story emerged after Mr Sweeney spoke about the alleged incident in an interview with the Mail on Sunday.
 Mr Sweeney said he was "paralysed" with shock after Mr Thomson "groped" him in the bar.
A spokesman for the Mr Sweeney said: "Thomson's denials today fly in the face of what was witnessed by other MPs and visitors and show him to be utterly unrepentant."
Mr Thomson branded Mr Sweeney's allegations "politically motivated smears".
He said: "This is the second time Mr Sweeney has gone to a national newspaper with allegations against me.
"I categorically denied the same allegations when they were first made back in March, and I continue to (do) so.
"I believe every report of harassment deserves to be treated with the utmost seriousness, which is why I have complied fully with a parliamentary standards investigation.
"I think it is telling that Mr Sweeney has chosen this moment, just days out from the beginning of a general election campaign, to abandon the confidential investigation process and take his smear campaign to the Mail on Sunday.
"Mr Sweeney is weaponising an extremely serious issue and showing contempt for the people and processes that have been put in place to help deal with genuine bullying and harassment claims."
A House of Commons spokeswoman said: "Parliament's Independent Complaints and Grievances Scheme operates on the basis of absolute confidentiality.
"Therefore we cannot provide answers about any complaint that may or may not have been made."
