
# Starting XI: Maritzburg v Highlands

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/match-reports/telkom-knockout-quarter-final-starting-xi-maritzburg-united-v-highlands-park-01-november-2019/666476)


        Telkom Knockout
      
Teams: Maritzburg United and Highlands Park
Date: 01 November 2019
Venue: Harry Gwala Stadium
In-form Maritzburg United will be hoping to extend their winning run when they host Highlands Park in the quarter-finals of the Telkom Knockout on Friday evening at Harry Gwala Stadium.
The match is set to get underway at 20h00.
The Team of Choice are in a rich vein of form after winning their last four games in all competitions, although their victory over Bidvest Wits in the first round of the Telkom Knockout was achieved via a penalty shoot-out.
Eric Tinkler’s charges were last in competitive action last Friday, edging Cape Town City 1-0 in the Absa Premiership.
Meanwhile, the Lions of the North have not kept up the same form before the MTN8 final loss at the beginning of October, after losing a further two games in the league to Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates in the same month.
However, Highlands progressed to the quarter-finals of the tournament after beating Black Leopards 6-5 on penalties a couple weeks ago.
Highlands are looking to reach the semi-finals of this tournament for the first time in the PSL era. Last season they were knocked out in the first round by Maritzburg.

        Here's how they line up:
      
Maritzburg: 31. Mpandle, 25. Xulu, 36. Kunene, 3. Sanoka, 23. De Reuck, 45. Mngonyama, 4. Allie, 14. Claasen, 26. Shandu, 7. Kutumela, 20. Moseamedi.
Subs: 30. Ofori, 15. Timm,  Jappie, 5. Morgan, 8. Buchanan, 12. Nyoni, 17. Augusto.
Highlands: 1. Heugh, 15. Msane, 5. Fransman, 23. Msimango, 24. Rae, 8. Mbunjana, 22. Williams, 6. Letsholonyane, 27. Jooste, 12. Mogaila, 11. Nyembe.
Subs: 32. Ngobeni, 14. Mzava, 34. Motsepe, 21. Mbhele, 38. Shalulile, 10. Mokoena, 17. Ramagalela.
