
# Transition plans for the 'big eight' at the Rugby World Cup

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:56:46+00:00**

Author: **Alex Shaw**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/transition-plans-for-the-big-eight-at-the-rugby-world-cup)

The 2019 Rugby World Cup is now officially over and whilst the Springboks and their fans enjoy some well-earned celebrations, already the eyes of the other seven teams to make the knockout rounds have turned toward the 2023 tournament in France and their forthcoming transition plans.
England looked like champions elect after their dissection of the All Blacks in the semi-finals, Japan delighted one and all with their high-octane play and Wales turned in a campaign to be proud of, even if it was ultimately fruitless. At the other end of the spectrum, Ireland once again finished well below their own expectations, France flattered to deceive, and Australia are facing their fair share of issues if they want to stay at the top table of Test rugby.
Regardless of where your allegiances lie, the aftermath of a Rugby World Cup is a time of optimism, as bizarre as that may sound for fans still licking the wounds of their knockout round exits from the tournament. It is a time of rejuvenation, new coaching staffs and the implementation of fresh playing styles.
Sadly, we have had to bid farewell to some truly great icons of the sport over the last month and a half and whilst their impact on the game will not be forgotten, it’s time for new faces to step into the breach and do what every international player is hoping to achieve, and that is to leave the jersey in a better place than they found it. A task which, in some of the following examples, is not one that anyone should envy.
We start with South Africa, the reigning world champions and three-times lifters of the Webb Ellis Cup, whose triumph on Saturday tied them with New Zealand as the most successful Test team in history.

        Continue reading below…
      
Watch: Frans Steyn challenges Prince Harry to chug his beer

        Click here to see the video
      
Up front, Tendai Mtawarira, 34, will need to be replaced at loosehead and the obvious candidate is Steven Kitshoff. Finding the new deputy, though, will be an interesting challenge for Rassie Erasmus. The Cheetahs’ Ox Nche is one option, as would be Thomas du Toit, if there were an urge to move him back to his former position of loosehead. As a versatile prop who can play both sides of the scrum, du Toit actually lines up nicely to potentially be Trevor Nyakane’s successor, with the Bulls prop set to turn 34 before the next Rugby World Cup.
The engine room is in excellent shape, though Duane Vermeulen, 33, and Francois Louw, 34, have both potentially played their last games in the green and gold back row. Given that the Springboks will have plenty of players continuing on, such as Siya Kolisi and World Rugby Player of the Year Pieter-Steph du Toit, that does free up Erasmus to blood some of the younger talents in the loose forwards, such as Jaco Coetzee and Juarno Augustus of the Stormers or Phepsi Buthelezi of the Sharks. With Coetzee’s injury problems looking as though they are behind him, Augustus fitting the bill of a power No 8 and Buthelezi just a talented all-round back rower, all three look to be good fits.
The majority of South Africa’s back line are in position to stick around for another cycle, although at 30 and bound for Japan, Willie le Roux could be one casualty moving forward. Warrick Gelant and Damian Willemse are set to duel it out for his spot, whilst if you’re looking for a bit of a bolter, how about Rikus Pretorius coming in and filling the Frans Steyn void, albeit providing a very different sort of threat, in the centres?
