
# Iranian Military Warns States Hosting US Bases: You Will Be Targeted in Event of American Aggression

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:44:58+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/middleeast/201911041077221912-iranian-military-warns-states-hosting-us-bases-you-will-be-targeted-in-event-of-american-aggression/)


        The US and Iran have repeatedly threatened one another with deadly consequences in the event of hostilities, with the US move to send a carrier strike group to the Middle East and to set up a maritime security coalition to protect shipping in the Persian Gulf leading tensions to spike to dangerous new levels.
      
Iran has the ability and will to target any and all territories sheltering the US or its allies in the region in the event of aggression against Tehran, Armed Forces spokesman Brig. Gen. Abolfazl Shekarchi has warned.
“Any place and any territorial point sheltering the interests of the United States and its allies would be threatened (in case of any war) and the Islamic Republic has proved that it has the capability to do so,” the spokesman for the armed forces general staff said, speaking to Fars News Agency.
Emphasising that Iran would never be the instigator of a war of aggression, the spokesman also stressed that “if an aggressor commits a strategic mistake” and starts a war, “that aggression will be confronted with the strongest and most crushing response over a geographic expanse beyond what the ill-wishers of the Islamic Republic could imagine.”
This was the second time Brig. Gen. Shekarchi has warned the US about the dangers of a conflict with Iran. In June, amid regional fears about how the US might respond to the destruction of a $220 million drone by Iranian air defences in the Strait of Hormuz, the spokesman warned that firing even “one bullet” at Iran would cause the region to “be set on fire” in the war that followed.
The United States already has over half a dozen major bases scattered around Iran, and recently confirmed plans to send 3,000 additional US personnel, two fighter squadrons, and Patriot and THAAD batteries to Saudi Arabia in the wake of the Saudi Aramco attacks.
US bases include the permanent base in Bahrain housing the US Navy’s 5th Fleet, a US Army Central Command forward command post in Kuwait, the Al Dhafra Air Base in the United Arab Emirates, which contains an estimated 5,000+ US personnel, and the massive Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar, which houses some 10,000 troops.
Along with these bases, the US has special forces operating in Yemen and Syria, and thousands of troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. The US also has smaller facilities known as ‘lily pads’ containing 200 troops or less and serving as jumping off points for military operations in countries including Oman, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Egypt.
