
# My Chemical Romance unveil new merch for their upcoming reunion

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:38:08+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/news/music/chemical-romance-unveiled-new-merch-upcoming-reunion-2563437)


        Want.
      
My Chemical Romance have unveiled new merchandise to coincide with the news that they have reformed.
The emo icons have long been rumoured for a reunion since their split in 2013. Earlier this year, rumours of a comeback emerged when Joe Jonas claimed that MCR had been rehearsing in a studio next to them in New York. Guitarist Frank Iero then denied the claims, but said that “anything is possible” with regards to them reforming.
Last night (October 31), the band announced that they will perform a comeback show at Los Angeles’ Shrine Expo Hall on Friday December 20. Tickets are on sale from 12pm Pacific Time tomorrow and will be available here. This will be My Chemical Romance’s first gig since 2012.
Now, the band have also revealed a full new line of t-shirts which feature the images the band shared when the announcement of their reunion came in. You can buy the new merch here.
My Chemical Romance
The band released four albums together before they split. Anticipation grew around a reunion with the recent 15th and 13th anniversary of ‘Three Cheers For Sweet Revenge‘ and ‘The Black Parade‘, respectively. As well as the hope for more world tour dates and perhaps 2020 festival shows, fans are now speculating as to whether the band will release new material – with the follow up to to 2010’s acclaimed ‘Danger Days…’
