
# Kevin Harper divulges Hibs relegation pain that drives his passion for an Easter Road coaching return

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Fraser Wilson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-wilson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/kevin-harper-reveals-hibs-relegation-20826820)

Kevin Harper scanned a crestfallen Easter Road as men and women wept – and in that instant realised what football means to Hibs fans.
A 2-1 defeat to Dundee United had just relegated their beloved club to the then First Division, having seemed set for a miracle escape with 70 minutes gone.
Twenty-one years on Harper knows the pressure simmering around the side that gave him his big break is just as intense after Paul Heckingbottom’s sacking.
That is why the 43-year-old is adamant Hibs’ next managerial team must include someone who knows the expectations.
Harper, who yesterday marked the one-year anniversary of his first managerial appointment at Albion Rovers, was not surprised to see Heckingbottom axed with the club third bottom of the league. And he’s warned they are not too big to go down again.
So agonising, in fact, is the memory of that fateful day in May 1998 as a 22-year-old inside Easter Road, it still drives him on to this day at Cliftonhill.
 
Harper said: “Once the fans turn on you then what happened this week is inevitable. I don’t think they will go down but they must get the next appointment right and for whoever comes in, it will be a tough job.
“I’m looking at it as an outsider and it’s going to have to be someone who knows the club, knows the fans, has a knowledge of the expectation of the Hibs fans because it is a great fan base and a great club but there’s pressure there.
“When we went down in 1998 I was just a young kid with no worries. But you could see it in the older, more experienced boys that probably thought about the game more.
“It was a difficult time. I was suspended the day we did get relegated and I remember looking around and seeing grown men and women cry.
 
“That’s probably the first time I saw that. Players, wives, fans, just seeing that was a bit surreal for me at that stage.
“That was when I realised just how much football means to people. That is what drives me on in the managerial side. That was a failure. I certainly don’t want to be part of that scenario again. That image of grown men and women crying because their team got relegated, a team I was part of.”
Harper reckons Heckingbottom was a victim of a poor transfer window.
He said: “Recruitment is key in management. Get that right and you have a chance but get it wrong then you sail by the wind.
“There were players he got rid of maybe just too early. It’s all well and good having your Scott Allans, who is an exceptional player, Horgan, Mallan. But you also need someone to do the dirty work to go let them play.
“Marvin Bartley is a huge miss for Hibs. For me it wasn’t a surprise and I don’t want to see managers lose their job but the writing has been on the wall for a wee while.”
Harper pulled off a minor miracle in guiding Albion to safety from the drop to the Lowland League last season. When he took over in November they were rooted to the bottom of the table having won just once all season and seven points off safety.
He knows his situation is vastly different to Heckingbottom’s at Hibs but the experience, he hopes, can one day lead him back to Easter Road.
For now he reckons a familiar face is important at the troubled club.
He said: “There’s been talk of Alan Stubbs but whether he would want to go back I have no idea. Stephen Robinson is probably at the forefront of everyone’s mind for both Hearts and Hibs jobs.
“He knows the league and has Motherwell playing really, really well. He has been successful and that’s probably the two you can think of.
 
“Jack Ross, would Hibs look at him because of his Hearts connection? John Hughes? Derek Adams? I’m just thinking of Scottish guys that have been at the club.
“But knowing Hibs they took the chance on Alan Stubbs and Paul Heckingbottom from down south and I wouldn’t be surprised if it was somebody from down there who maybe brings in an assistant or coach that has knowledge of the club.
“There will be pressure on whoever steps in. If someone comes in and doesn’t hit the ground running then it might take a month.
“It wasn’t so long ago that Hibs were in the Championship and that will be a heavy burden as well. The thought of possibly being down there again, they were down there for three years and found it difficult to get back up.
“I would love to go back to Hibs in a managerial or coaching capacity. I didn’t really feel as if I got to say bye to the fans when I left.
“If I got the chance to help Hibs in any way I would be delighted. The club was a huge part of my career and the fans were always behind me 100 per cent.”
 
Harper's Albion side currently sit second bottom of League Two and just one point above Brechin.
Perilously close to the drop zone yet it is nowhere near the horror situation he inherited a year ago.
Harper said: "There's been highs, lows and everything in between. For my first year as a manager it's been really enjoyable and I've learned loads.
"When I took over we were seven points adrift of Berwick who had three games in hand and we didn't win in 12 matches.
"To turn that around and stay up by eight points was incredible.
"Everyone and their dog wrote us off and I don't blame them.
"The pressure for clubs like ours now that there is relegation out of the SPFL has intensified.
"Albion Rovers is a fantastic club with fantastic people and I have a care of duty to ensure they stay in the SPFL."
