
# See What Colin Farrell Could Look Like As Penguin In The Batman

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:31:12+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483972/see-what-colin-farrell-could-look-like-as-penguin-in-the-batman)

Written By

        CinemaBlend participates in affiliate programs with various companies. We may earn commission when you click on or make purchases via links.
      
After years of sitting in development hell, Matt Reeves' The Batman is finally coming together. Following Robert Pattinson signing on as the title character, The Planet of the Apes director has begun assembling his cast and crew. The highly anticipated blockbuster will follow the Dark Knight as he battles a trio of villains: The Riddler, Catwoman, and Penguin. While Reeves found great talent to play the first tow characters, the search for Oswald Cobblepot has been a bit longer. A new report indicates that Colin Farrell is in talks to play Penguin, and now we've got an idea of what he might look like as the iconic Batman villain.
Colin Farrell might be an unexpected choice to play The Penguin, as he doesn't share the typical physicality of the villain on the page. But Farrell has had a long career in film, and shown the ability to transform into his characters. An artist recently rendered an idea of what the 43-year old actor could look like as Cobblepot. Check it out below.
Well, that's pretty awesome. This new image shows what Colin Farrell could look like as The Penguin, and it's a badass visual. He looks like a true crime boss, who is no doubt capable of unspeakable evils.
The above rendering of Colin Farrell comes to us from the artist known as Boss Logic. Boss Logic is known for creating epic images of actors as comic book heroes, usually related to the most popular casting rumors or announcements. So when news broke that Farrell was in talks to join The Batman as Penguin, it was inevitable that a fan-made image could be crafted in his honor. And this one certainly didn't disappoint.
The search for The Penguin seems to be one of the last big puzzle pieces to The Batman's cast. Director Matt Reeves is clearly going after some A-List talent, and the ensemble is already impressive without Colin Farrell's possible inclusion. Joining Robert Pattinson for Batman's first solo flick in the DCEU are the likes of Jeffrey Wright as James Gordon, Zoe Kravitz's Catwoman, and Paul Dano's Riddler.
But two more possible cast members were recently revealed: Colin Farrell's Penguin and Andy Serkis as Alfred Pennyworth. These are two household names that would further elevate the star power of the developing blockbuster. While neither has been officially confirmed, the reports indicate the pair of actors are in talks to possible join the project.

        Related: Robert Pattinson Is Training In Jiu-Jitsu For The Batman
      
Of course, that's no guarantee that Colin Farrell will actually become The Batman's Penguin. Talks can sometimes fall through, and we've already seen that happen with Matt Reeves' ongoing casting process. Jonah Hill was in talks for possibly more than one Batman villain, but ultimately exited the running. This could make way for Farrell to play The Penguin, if the Fantastic Beast and Where to Find Them actor actually signs on to play the iconic comic book villain.
It should be interesting to see how much inspiration Matt Reeves takes from the Batman comics. While that will become clear in the coming year, you can get your hands on Batman's life on the page here.
I'm eager to see how The Batman all shakes out, especially related to its cast. Matt Reeves is populating Gotham City with some big names, hopefully teasing the quality of the long gestating blockbuster. And considering its part of the DCEU, these casting announcements could have a big impact on future crossover-heavy projects.
The Batman is currently set to arrive in theaters on June 25th, 2021. In the meantime, check out our 2019 release list to plan your next trip to the movies.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
