
# Liam lays it all bare about Zayn's exit and the darkest days of One Direction:' It was a really sordid scenario'

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:34:11+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Music/News/liam-lays-it-all-bare-about-zayns-exit-and-the-darkest-days-of-one-direction-it-was-a-really-sordid-scenario-20191105)

Cape Town – Sometimes when a friend or a lover leaves your life, over four years is enough to get over it all and move on. Sometimes it's not. Like in the case of Zayn Malik's exit from One Direction. 
His former bandmate Liam Payne has laid all the drama (and himself) bare inside the pages of GQ's Hype Magazine. The Strip That Down singer said when asked about that time in his life he said: "But it got to a point with me where I wouldn't know where to begin with Zayn."
When asked whether or not he still holds grudges, Liam candidly said: "Definitely in some part, yeah."
He elaborated: "I think with Zayn's particular exit and the way he chose to go, we haven't really heard from him since he left. He didn't even say goodbye if I am being honest. It was a really sordid scenario, from our side certainly. A bit strange. It's difficult."
In the interview, Liam also speaks about going to therapy and his new album, which has been a delayed but much-hyped release.  
Liam's debut album is titled LP1, and is out on 6 December.
Zayn, for his part, hasn't said anything in response to this interview but let's hope the boys can go back to being friends one day. 
Fans will remember that One Direction toured South Africa in 2015 right around the time Zayn left the band. 

        READ NEXT: 
        
          Zayn Malik quits One Direction 3 days before SA tour
        
      
The hot cover was taken by fashion photographers Mert and Marcus. The interview was written by Jonathan Heaf, who is Chief Content Officer of British GQ.

        SEE LIAM'S COVER OF GQ HYPE HERE: 
      
