
# Clinton ally Sidney Blumenthal reportedly tried to kill Russia 'scandal' book

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:17:13+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Chaitin**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/clinton-ally-sidney-blumenthal-reportedly-tried-to-kill-russia-scandal-book)

A Clinton family ally reportedly tried to stop the publication of a book about a "deep state" plot to undermine President Trump.
Sidney Blumenthal, who was an outside political adviser to Hillary Clinton, claimed investigative journalist Lee Smith's new book was defamatory and sent threatening letters to publisher Center Street, a division of Hachette Book Group, according to a Fox News source.
But the source said the publisher's legal team found the threat to be "meritless," and the book, The Plot Against the President: The True Story of How Congressman Devin Nunes Uncovered the Biggest Political Scandal in U.S. History, was released on Tuesday.
As of Sunday, Blumenthal had not responded to the outlet's request for comment.
The book focuses on the "scandal" that began late July 2016 with the start of the FBI's counterintelligence investigation into the Trump campaign following a tip from an Australian diplomat about how Trump campaign aide George Papadopoulos said the Russians had damaging information on Clinton.
Smith said the investigation, which was later wrapped into former special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation, was a "political operation designed to assist the Clinton campaign" during a Sunday appearance on Fox News' Sunday Morning Futures.
"We talk a lot about the FBI and DOJ and we’re right to focus on the very bad, likely criminal things they did. But it’s important to remember that the primary beneficiary was the Clinton campaign," he said.
