
# Resolve Maguindanao massacre soon – DOJ chief

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:47:06+00:00**

Author: **Hector Lawas**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/resolve-maguindanao-massacre-soon-doj-chief)

Guevarra issued the statement after it was reported that Quezon City regional trial court Judge Jocelyn Solis-Reyes reportedly requested the Supreme Court for another 30 days to rule on the celebrated case .
“We shall leave this matter to the sound discretion of the Supreme Court. But we really hope that the good judge would be able to promulgate her decision sooner than later,” he said.
Court records will show that the case was submitted for decision on August 22, 2019. This means that Reyes has 90 days to rule on the charges, and a decision may be expected on or before November 20.
The Maguindanao massacre (or Ampatuan massacre) claimed the lives of 58 individuals including 32 media workers on November 23, 2009.
Members of the Ampatuan clan are facing criminal charges for allegedly masterminding the cold-blooded killing.
The victims that included the wife of Maguindanao Governor Esmael Mangudadatu were in a convoy to Shariff Aguak town to file Mangudadatu’s certificate of candidacy for the May 2010 elections.
A group of armed men stopped the convoy, shot them dead and used a backhoe to bury them while they were still in the vehicles.
There were a total of 197 accused in the massacre for multiple murders, including prime suspect Andal Ampatuan Jr.
Aside from Andal Ampatuan Jr., others accused of the same charges were his father, the late Andal Ampatuan Sr., and his brothers Zaldy and Datu Sajid Islam Ampatuan.
