
# Teen wins US$25,000 award for invention eliminating blind spots for cars

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Alaa Elassar, CNN**

Original: [www.ctvnews.ca](https://www.ctvnews.ca/sci-tech/teen-wins-us-25-000-award-for-invention-eliminating-blind-spots-for-cars-1.4673098)

A 14-year-old from West Grove, Pennsylvania, won a US$25,000 prize for creating a prototype designed to eliminate a car's blind spots.
Alaina Gassler told CNN she first noticed the problem when she realized her mom didn't like driving their family's Jeep Grand Cherokee because its A-pillars caused blind spots.
The A-pillar design in a car supports the windshield and provides protection in case of a crash. However, their size and angle also create blind spots, the area of the road not visible to drivers from their usual sitting position or rear-view and side mirrors.
"There are so many car accidents and injuries and deaths that could've been prevented from a pillar not being there," Gassler said in her Society for Science video. "And since we can't take it off cars, I decided to get rid of it without getting rid of it."
Gassler's project uses a webcam, projector, 3D printed adapter and retroreflective fabric to make a car's A-pillars invisible by displaying the image of the blind spot behind them onto the pillar.
First, a webcam is attached to the car onto the A-pillar. Then, a projector mounted on the roof inside the car is used to display the images from the webcam.
Gassler also 3D printed a special piece to allow the projector to focus at close range. The teen used retroreflective fabric to cover the A-pillar to allow light from the projector to reflect back onto the light source, rather than bounce in different directions.
