
# New North Dakota airport adds to competition for YQR, still lacking non-stop service to a U.S. hub

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:00:21+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Ackerman**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/local-news/new-north-dakota-airport-adds-to-competition-for-yqr-still-lacking-non-stop-service-to-a-u-s-hub)

As Regina International Airport (YQR) continues its fight to regain non-stop service to a U.S. hub, another American competitor has opened its doors just over an hour’s drive from the Saskatchewan-North Dakota border.
“We are definitely very interested in providing a service to that southern Saskatchewan market because of our proximity,” said Anthony Dudas, director of the Williston Basin International Airport (XWA). “I would envision that if business travellers from Saskatchewan were needing to get elsewhere within the United States that it would be an easy connection to utilize our airport and we hope that they would do so.”
The Williston airport officially opened on Oct. 10. It offers five flights per day — three to Denver through United Airlines and two to Minneapolis through Delta. United and Delta left Regina in 2015 and 2016 respectively, eliminating direct flights to Minneapolis, Denver and Chicago.
“The one that we have been more focused on in terms of our awareness of some, what we call leakage to the U.S. has actually been Minot, North Dakota,” said YQR president and CEO James Bogusz, when asked how the new airport might effect business. “If you live in a community like Estevan for example, a driving proximity to an airport like Minot (MOT) could be potentially desirable.”
While Bogusz acknowledged proximity and price as factors that might tempt southern Saskatchewan residents to choose a nearby American airline rather than go through Regina, he said he’s not really worried about the competition.
“Really what this is all about is convincing and working with American airlines like United, to really consider coming back to the Queen City,” he said.
YQR has been very vocal about its efforts to regain non-stop service to a U.S. hub. In August, it successfully applied for a partial property tax exemption from the City of Regina, which will save the airport half a million dollars per year for the next five years — money it can redirect to providing financial incentives for American airlines.
Bogusz said he’s also been working closely with the business community, which has provided letters of support and help putting a business case before United Airlines.
“What others are doing isn’t changing our approach,” he said. “We’re doing everything reasonable and rational, including putting large, risk-reducing financial incentives on the table for airlines to consider offering a non-stop U.S. hub service.”
Neither Dudas nor Minot’s airport services co-ordinator could quantify how many Saskatchewan customers they get, but it doesn’t stop them from trying to attract more.
“We team up a lot with our Convention & Visitors Bureau to attract Canadian travellers,” said Maria Romanick, at MOT. “We have a lot of snowbirds, so a lot of them fly out of Minot and go down to Arizona for the really cold winter months.”
In addition to Delta and United, MOT also has Allegiant Air operating direct flights from Minot to Phoenix, which is something that sets it apart from Williston, Romanick said when asked how the Williston airport might pose a competitive challenge.
Bogusz said a lack of non-stop service to a U.S. hub is probably one of the main issues he’s heard about from southern Saskatchewan residents since he started as CEO almost 20 months ago, but that YQR’s commitment to the community and to restoring that service has been made very clear.
“Competition’s always going to be there,” said Bogusz. “Growth in aviation is excellent. It will hopefully lower ticket prices for customers, but we would love the people of southern Saskatchewan to see YQR as their preferred option.”

        jackerman@postmedia.com
      
