
# Man Utd player ratings as Red Devils fail to impress in Bournemouth defeat

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:27:56+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/match-reports/man-utd-player-ratings-red-20794786)

Manchester United's recent mini-revival came screeching to a halt with a disappointing defeat to Bournemouth on the south coast.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's Red Devils had won three successive away matches before arriving at Dean Court.
But they never looked like making it four in a row with a poor performance as they fell to a 1-0 loss.
Former United youngster Josh King scored the only goal on the stroke of half-time, turning in the penalty area and firing a bouncing ball past David de Gea.
If Solskjaer had hoped for a reaction in the second half then he was left bitterly disappointed, Cherries' goalkeeper Aaron Ramsdale barely making a save worthy of note.
Substitute Mason Greenwood hit the post late on, but Bournemouth deserved their victory.
Here are the player ratings from Dean Court...
Couldn't do anything about the goal. Made a couple of good stops in either half and dealt with the routine when necessary too.
Made a fine tackle to deny Fraser a run on goal early in the first half, but badly failed to deal with King for the Bournemouth goal. Subbed.
Very uncomfortable day for the Swedish defender. Failed to cope with the movement of King or the physical presence of Callum Wilson. Booked.
Solid defensively, but when you were looking for him to step out with the ball, he too often took the easy option, rather than forcing the issue.
Back in the side, the captain had a difficult time up against Harry Wilson. Never really got forward on the overlap either.
Steady in midfield and didn't shirk the physical battle against either Jefferson Lerma or Phillip Billing. However, did he do enough with the ball? You'd have to say no.
Having been quite decent at Norwich last weekend, this was a listless performance from the Brazilian. Booked in the first half.
Had a decent first half and tested Sergio Rico with his pace down the right. Non-existent in the second period.
Had absolutely no impact on proceedings whatsoever. Probably his poorest display of the season.
Nowhere near his midweek exploits in more mundane surroundings
Some nice touches and a couple of smart runs, but little real threat offered in the final third.
Subs: Lingard 5 (Pereira 68'), Greenwood (James 80'), Williams (Wan-Bissaka 80')
Bournemouth XI: Ramsdale 6; Smith 6, Cook 6, Ake 8, Rico 6; Wilson 6, Billing 7, Lerma 7, Fraser 7; King 7, Wilson 7.
