
# Suzuki teases the new V-Strom 1000 before EICMA debut

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:25:00+00:00**

Author: **Staff Writer**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/suzuki-teases-the-new-v-strom-1000-before-eicma-debut-414721)

New styling, a Suzuki DR-Big-inspired paint scheme, and a possible Euro 5/BS6-compliant engine are some of the highlights of the updated adventure tourer.
In the run upto EICMA 2019, Suzuki has released a new teaser video that gives us a glimpse of the new V-Strom 1000 adventure tourer. The video shows the front three-quarter and side angles of the new Suzuki V-Strom 1000, followed by a shot of the tail section as the rider rides away towards the horizon. And it looks like Suzuki has gone the whole hog while developing the new V-Strom.
The styling is refreshingly new for Suzuki’s top-of-the-line ADV motorcycle – and it was necessary, considering the ageing design of the previous-gen model. The vertical halogen headlamp on the older V-Strom 1000 is gone and in place of it is a single, square-shaped LED headlamp, split in the middle for low and high beam. Below the headlamp is a new beak that’s flatter and wider than the pointy one seen on the last-generation model. A height-adjustable screen sits above the headlamp and that sums up the front end of the new Suzuki V-Strom 1000.
The side profile of the adventure tourer reveals the new fuel tank with pretty large tank extensions that seem to stretch all the way down to double as a radiator shroud. Below this is a comprehensive, tubular engine guard. Speaking of its engine, the casings look all-new, while the massive, chrome-tipped exhaust pipe suggests that this motor could possibly comply with Euro 5 and BS6 emission norms. In the current model, the 1,037cc, liquid-cooled V-twin motor produces 99hp at 8,000rpm and 101Nm of torque at 4,000rpm. We expect a slight difference in these figures in case the engine in the new model has been updated to Euro 5-spec unit.
The tail section has been completely redesigned as well. The body panels are sleeker, with new grab rails on either end and a new, clear-lens LED tail lamp. There’s a provision to attach panniers as well, and we may see one of the show bikes at the EICMA kitted out with such accessories. The split seats are new and it appears like they are flatter than the single piece unit on its predecessor.
The black, wire-spoke rims are running on tubeless rubber. This suggests that the bike seen here is the top-spec XT trim. Expect Suzuki to also launch a version shod with alloy wheels too.
The new Suzuki V-Strom 1000 gets a new instrument panel which is most likely a colour-TFT screen – as is the norm with ADVs these days. Suzuki could offer Bluetooth connectivity and turn-by-turn navigation on this flagship adventure tourer; either as standard or as an optional extra. We also expect Suzuki to update the electronics package on the 2020 V-Strom 1000. Suzuki is expected to launh the motorcycle in India, shortly after the international launch. 
We will be covering the 2019 EICMA live from Milan. Stay tuned as we bring you more information on the new V-Strom 1000 and other motorcycles from the event.
 
 
