
# Nyanza on the spot for cheating as KCSE kicks off

Published at: **2019-11-04T06:22:21+00:00**

Author: **OJWANG JOE**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/nyanza-on-the-spot-for-cheating-as-kcse-kicks-off/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 4 – Top government officials, among them Cabinet Secretaries, Chief Administrative Secretaries and Principal Secretaries were deployed to schools nationwide to monitor the start of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examinations that kicked off Monday.
      
Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha was in Nyanza, an examination cheating hotspot, where he warned of tough action on such cases.
ADVERTISEMENT
“The most important constant here is our children who are going to take the exam and I want to urge them to ignore the help from hell as they have help from heaven which is in their head,” he stated.
His sentiments follow a revelation of planned examination malpractice in Migori, Homabay and Kisii where parents were reported to be paying up to Sh120,000 to facilitate cheating.
“And they are not very intelligent, because most of the time, they do not get the answers correct to justify the money they have charged,” he said.
Magoha issued a stern warning to those colluding with teachers, parents or students, saying examination results will be cancelled on any malpractice.
He issued the warning as Nancy Macharia, the Chief Executive Officer of the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) disclosed that 56 teachers are facing disciplinary action for malpractices in the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examinations that ended last week.
Post Views: 105
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
