
# Yap Chain Foundation Listing Yap Stone on 8 Top Exchanges

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:55:52+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CCN.com](https://www.ccn.com/yap-chain-foundation-listing-yap-stone-on-8-top-exchanges/)

The Yap Chain Foundation, the company responsible for the creation of the coin, Yap Stone, is proud to announce that they are listing their coin on eight top-tier global exchanges. The event will happen on November 5, 2019. Yap Stone will be available for trading at 4:00 PM (UTC+8). 
Yap Stone will be listed on the following exchanges — P2PB2B, (Estonia), DIGIFINEX (Singapore), COINBENE (Singapore), BW (Australia), IDAX (Mongolia), Coinsuper (Hong Kong), DragonEx (Singapore), and Coinall (Hong Kong). 
The list has three of the top 10 exchanges listed in CoinMarketCap, three of the top 20 exchanges listed in CoinMarketCap, and the rest are also popular exchanges by adjusted volume, as of October 30, 2019. According to Yap Chain, YAP Stone will be listed on five more exchange platforms, which include the top exchanges in Korea in upcoming months. 
Lloyd Park, the Chief Executive Officer of the Yap Chain Foundation, also shared his positive sentiments. According to CEO Park, “real users in the cryptocurrency market are on the exchanges. Most of the cryptocurrencies in the market don’t have their users. After restructuring in this year, the cryptocurrency market has increased its barriers to entering the major industry for projects.” 
He added that it is very important to know which exchanges to list on, and he said that this would help Yap Chain to gather users and create new values. “We want to enter the market meaningfully through the simultaneous listing of 8 top global exchanges,” he mentioned.
Yap Chain Advisor, Perry Ha, the Chief Executive Officer of Draper Athena, one of the best venture capital firms in the world based in Silicon Valley, Korea, and China, expressed his delight for this event. In an interview, he said, “two years ago, Korea led the global cryptocurrency market, but now it is being sidelined from international flows. I think it’s a great opportunity for Yap Chain to become the representative coin of Korea to change this flow.”

        Yap Chain is a decentralized blockchain ecosystem that turns a Smart City into a single unified computer that enables users to make smart payments, contracts, MOUs, voting, and more, without the involvement of a third-party, allowing users to enjoy a convenient and secure city life. Yap Chain calls Yap Stone the “key currency of Smart City.”
      
According to the Yap Chain Whitepaper, “YAP Stone will formulate a Shared Economy platform that will distribute profits generated by the community back to the community that has contributed and becomes the Key currency of Smart City with Cryptocurrency with credibility and guarantee.”

        
          This is a paid-for submitted press release. CCN does not endorse, nor is responsible for any material included below and isn’t responsible for any damages or losses connected with any products or services mentioned in the press release. CCN urges readers to conduct their own research with due diligence into the company, product or service mentioned in the press release.
        
      
