
# The Brilliant Samsung 55-inch Q60 QLED TV Is Just $697 Today

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:49:52+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-samsung-q60-black-friday-sale-cheap.html)

The Samsung 55-inch Q60 QLED 4K TV is on sale for just $697, which is $500 off of its regular price. And that makes this a really great deal for a number of reasons.
This is a QLED TV, which means that it's going to give you essentially, the best looking display on any TV today. And at $697, that's pretty tough to beat. This is because OLED TVs, while they look better, suffer from screen burn-in. And that's not something anyone wants, especially after paying a few grand.
With the Q60, you're getting QLED, which has all of the advantages of OLED, but without the screen burn-in.
Advertisement
Samsung has equipped the Q60 line of TVs with its new Quantum processor, which is able to process images better and provide a better looking image. It is also great with upscaling HD and full HD content to UHD or 4K. So you can really take advantage of all of the pixels on that TV. What's really cool is Ambient Mode, so it can turn from a blank screen into a picture frame, or something else. So it's not just a giant black screen when the TV is off.
This is running on Tizen, so you're not getting Android TV here. But there are a number of great apps available for this TV. That includes Netflix, Hulu, Google Play Movies & TV and much more. So all of your favorite apps are available. And Samsung has also included Amazon Alexa. Allowing you to control your TV with your voice, as well as other smart home products in your home, with your voice via your TV. Which is a really cool thing.
You can pick up the Samsung 55-inch Q60 QLED 4K TV from Amazon by clicking here. But you'd better hurry as this price won't last long.
Advertisement

        Samsung 55-inch Q60 TV - Amazon - $697
      
