
# Steven Gerrard's 'bluff' won't fool Sergio Conceicao as Porto boss identifies Rangers' dangermen

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gary Ralston, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gary-ralston/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/steven-gerrards-bluff-wont-fool-20827472)

Porto boss Sergio Conceicao has accused Steven Gerrard of being a Bluenose bluffer.
The Ibrox boss reckons Porto are still the favourites to win Group G and the pressure is all on them in tonight’s Europa League clash.
But his forecast cut no ice with former Lazio and Inter star Conceicao, whose side are without a win since they opened their group stage campaign with a 2-1 victory over Young Boys.
Conceicao said: “I don’t know if that is a bit of a bluff from Rangers. Whether we are favourites or not, we’ll see how we perform.
“Historically, we are maybe more at home in European competition, but we have to prove that in this game.
“The opinion of Steven Gerrard is his opinion. Managers all have their own points of view.
“Traditionally, we are used to the Champions League and Europa League more than Rangers.
“We know these games are never easy and it won’t be easy this time either as Rangers are a very competitive side.
“They will draw on the aggression and competitiveness needed to succeed at this level, but we have improved on some key things in the past couple of weeks.
“We have a strong team, a strong mentality. We need to be strong because it’s always difficult away from home, in front of fans who are so passionate.
“The home fans make a big difference, we know that, because our own fans make a difference in the Estadio Do Dragao.
“We know we need to make a difference from the first game to take three points instead of one this time around.”
 
Gerrard also claims Porto showed all they had at home a fortnight ago, but the manner in which Rangers matched their display highlighted the maturity his side are beginning to show at this level.
Conceicao is adamant his side were not shocked by the level of the Rangers performance, just 18 months after Gerrard arrived to re-shape the entire club.
He added: “I wouldn’t say I was surprised by Rangers. We studied them, as we study all teams.
“Rangers had some merit in the last match, some good things they did.
Porto, on the other hand, had some deficiencies, some things we could have done better.
“Rangers played well but we really could have improved.
“As a team, they have a lot of strong players. They are challenging as a whole.
“The mentality of Ryan Kent was very strong, the width they got from James Tavernier and Borna Barisic was also important to them.
“They are very strong offensively. A team who doesn’t adapt to Rangers will struggle against them. We expect the same kind of problems we faced in the first game. We just have to deal with them better.”
Only 32,000 fans bothered turning up at the Estadio Do Dragao, with Ibrox a 50,000 sell-out tonight but Conceicao shot down claims the Europa League is thin gruel after a rich diet of Champions League football.
He added: “Porto is very honoured to be in this competition. Yes, have played in the Champions League before – in fact, we won it once.
 
“The fact that we only had 30,000 at the last game was to do with timing, the early kick-off.
“I know Porto supporters are as strong and as vocal and as warm as Rangers supporters.
“I assure you this competition matters as much to Porto fans as it does to Rangers fans.”
Porto frontman Moussa Marega did not travel with the squad and will be replaced by Cameroonian striker Vincent Aboubakar, who has not played a single Europa League game or league match this season.
