
# Motupa Nets Four As Wits Make CAF History

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/caff-confederation-cup/caf-confederation-cup-report-bidvest-wits-v-songo-03-november-2019/666641)

Gift Motupa had a night to remember after netting four goals as Bidvest Wits qualified for the CAF Confederation Cup group stages.
The Clever Boys entered the game with a 2-1 lead from the first-leg win in Mozambique and the two away goal was a big boost for them.
Gavin Hunt's men started on the front foot and they opened the scoring in the 17th minute thanks to Motupa's finish.
Wits had their tails up after going ahead and the former Orlando Pirates midfielder doubled the lead on the stroke of halftime to complete his brace.

        Read: Galaxy's CAF Journey Ended By Nigerian Giants
      
Motupa could not be contained, as he made it 3-0 for the Clever Boys nine minutes after the break and completed his hat-trick, as the Mozambique outfit had not answer for the Absa Premiership outfit.
The former Orlando Pirates forward was on fire, as he added to his hat-trick with 15 minutes remaining to extend Wits' advantage to four goals on the night.
Terrence Dzvukamanja also got in on the act with five minutes remaining, before Ivan Mahangwahaya wrapped the emphatic win for the Clever Boys, who now advance to the group stages for the first time in their history.
Wits, however, will be the only South African side left in the tournament after TS Galaxy were eliminated by Enyimba earlier on Sunday.
