
# Jurgen Klopp hails Arsenal's Gabriel Martinelli as 'a talent of the century'

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:44:30+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopp-hails-arsenals-gabriel-20786077)

Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp described Arsenal striker Gabriel Martinelli as a 'talent of the century' after the teenager's impressive Carabao Cup display at Anfield.
The 18-year-old, who joined the Gunners from Ituano over the summer, scored twice during Wednesday's 5-5 draw as the Reds won on penalties book a quarter-final meeting with Aston Villa.
He reacted quickly to a smart stop from Caoimhin Kelleher to finish from close range in the 26th minute - with the scores level at 1-1 - before adding a second ten minutes later, producing an emphatic first-time finish from a Bukayo Saka cross.
Although his brace was not enough to see Unai Emery's side advance in the competition, it was yet another impressive display from the teenager, who already has seven goals in as many appearances for his new club.
And Klopp, who made 11 changes for the tie and handed to starts to several Liverpool youngsters, was full of the praise for Martinelli as he paid tribute to the contributions of some of his younger players.
“Sepp van den Berg played an incredible game," the Reds' boss told Liverpoolfc.com .
“That’s really difficult to deal with these guys. Martinelli’s pretty much the same age but he’s a talent of the century, he’s an incredible striker, so it’s really difficult.
“Then you have Mesut Ozil around and Willock right, who scored by the way a really nice one, so a team like Arsenal in a counter-attacking mood – we keep them deep, play around them, we lose the ball and then it’s really difficult."
Dutch defender Van den Berg, 17, was one of five Anfield debutants to start the match, alongside 16-year-old Harvey Elliott, Rhian Brewster, Neco Williams, and goalkeeper Kelleher.
And Klopp's young stars proved crucial in the final outcome as the Reds came from two-goals behind twice and forced penalties in the dying seconds of the match when Divock Origi put Williams' cross into the net with a bicycle kick.
Kelleher then produced a crucial save from Dani Ceballos in the shootout to allow substitute Curtis Jones to score the winning spot-kick in front of the Kop.
And Klopp admitted that he was really encouraged by the displays he saw.
“The kids showing up like crazy and I’m so pleased for them that they have a first Anfield experience like that !" he added.
"With all the emotions when you saw the faces, the face of Caoimhin Kelleher when he saved the penalty, of Curtis Jones when he scored the penalty. How everybody ran to Neco Williams when he crossed the ball to Div, all these things are just so nice. It’s so nice.
“When I saw in front of me the fighting spirit of Rhian Brewster, when he won the ball like four times back, and we go out there and the next moment we score a goal. These are so important moments for these kids, of course, but for all the other LFC kids as well.
The Liverpool boss continued: “We had a meeting after the Tottenham game on Monday morning when all the young boys and the other players were together.
"The young boys were sitting on the left and I told them: ‘It’s good that you are here when we speak about the game from yesterday because that’s the way we play, that’s the way you have to play if you want to be part of this.’ It’s not too difficult so you can do that.
“Four or five of them tonight had the opportunity to do it and it’s really nice.”
