
# Caroline Flack sparks engagement rumours by flashing dazzling gem on ring finger

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:33:49+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/caroline-flack-sparks-engagement-rumours-20828606)

Caroline Flack has sparked rumours that she has been proposed to after being spotted wearing a ring on her wedding finger.
The Love Island presenter, who is dating 27-year-old Lewis Burton, appeared carefree as she strolled along the streets of London, on Wednesday, with her hand decorated with stacks of rings - including one on her engagement finger.
Hitting the gym, ahead of turning the big 4-0 on Saturday, Caroline was clad in a black hooded sports sweater and form-fitting leggings.
Preparing for the winter chill, she carried a thick beige teddy coat over her arm.
 
Caroline donned a pair of sunglasses and tied her golden locks up in a ponytail.
The blonde further fuelled rumours she was headindg up th aisle by posting a cryptic message onto her Instagram account earlier in the day.
Alongside some professional shots of her face, she captioned: "Shot by  @savannahmcmillan  on a rooftop in LA during a marriage proposal."
Mirror Online have contacted Caroline's representative for comment.
 
 
Caroline and professional tennis star Lewis are thought to have got together after she returned back to the UK after filming Love Island over the summer.
Since their romance began Caroline has shared a number of loved-up snaps with her new man on social media.
Caroline recently confessed she's worried about running out of time to have kids as she nears 40.
"I've kind of always put work first. Wake up in the morning, go to work, come home — just like my boyfriend has," she told Kathy Burke's All Woman show.
"I'm scared it's going to get too late where I've wanted to go, 'Right, maybe slow down, think about having kids and maybe think about settling down,' but I've never had that.
"I feel guilty for it sometimes, I feel like maybe I'm being selfish," she explained.
But she made it clear she doesn't think she needs a man to make her life complete, adding: "When you're on your own, you're more powerful because you're not relying on someone else.
"So it's actually more of a powerful thing to be single.
"And when you're single and happy, that is when you feel at your best."
