
# Pittsburgh Steelers’ Minkah Fitzpatrick Looks Like Trade Bargain

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **John Perrotto**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/johnperrotto/2019/11/03/pittsburgh-steelers-minkah-fitzpatrick/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Minkah Fitzpatrick was 96 yards away from the end zone but there was only one thing on his mind.“Score,” the Pittsburgh Steelers free safety said with a smile.
And score he did. Fitzpatrick intercepted Brian Hoyer’s pass and returned it nearly the length of the field Sunday afternoon at Heinz Field for one of the longest returns in team history.
The touchdown pulled the Steelers into a 10-10 late in the second quarter and proved to be pivotal as Pittsburgh eked out a 26-24 victory over the Colts. Indianapolis kicker Adam Vinatieri hooked a potential game-winning field goal attempt wide left from 42 yards with 1:11 remaining and the Steelers ran out the clock.
Steelers general manager Kevin Colbert took a certain amount of heat from the fans and media in Pittsburgh on Sept. 6 when he traded their 2020 first-round draft pick to the Miami Dolphins for Fitzpatrick after a season-ending injury to free safety Sean Davis.
The thought was the Steelers overpaid for a second-year player who had asked to be dealt rather than go through what appears is going to be a long rebuilding process with the Dolphins.
However, it was obvious Colbert felt Fitzpatrick could be a much-needed playmaker in the secondary because the 20th-year GM has rarely parted with premium draft capital.
It also hasn’t been the Steelers’ way to sacrifice the future for the present. In fact, they hadn’t traded their first-round pick in more than a half century.
Just prior to training camp in 1966, the Steelers dealt what turned out be the No. 9 overall selection to the Green Bay Packers for tight end Tony Jeter and defensive lineman Lloyd Voss. Jeter played in 11 games in two seasons and had just three receptions while Voss was a solid starter, primarily at end, for six seasons.
It would not be a stretch to say Fitzpatrick has already made a bigger contribution in six games than Jeter and Voss ever did. Fitzpatrick, who turns 23 on Tuesday, has four interceptions, a forced fumble and 36 tackles.
“Minkah needs no endorsement from me,” Steelers coach Mike Tomlin said. “The tape is his storyteller. He has been really rock-solid.”
The 96-yard interception return was the third-longest by a Steelers’ player. The regular-season record of 99 yards was set by Martin Kottler in 1933, the franchise’s inaugural season when they were known as the Pirates, against the Chicago Cardinals.
James Harrison ran a pick back 100 yards against the Arizona Cardinals in Super Bowl XLIII in 2009.
It has been a very impressive start for Fitzpatrick, who did not join the Steelers until the third week of the season. However, when asked if it was important to come to a new team and make big plays right away, Fitzpatrick shrugged.
“Whether I came in at midstream or during the middle of training camp or at the start of camp, it doesn’t matter,” Fitzpatrick said. “My job, from the start, was to come in an contribute and help this team win games. That’s why they traded for me and that’s what I’ve been trying to do.”
Fitzpatrick wasn’t being flippant with his answer. He is a very talented player who has quiet confidence in himself and proven worthy of his status of being the No. 11 overall pick by the Dolphins in last year’s draft following a stellar collegiate career at Alabama.
One of the Steelers’ stated goals for 2019 when they began organized team activities (OTAs) in the spring was to become better at forcing turnovers.
Fitzpatrick has played a big hand in the Steelers recording 22 takeaways in their first eight games. They had just 15 giveaways all last season.
Sunday’s win was the Steelers’ third straight and evened their record at 4-4. While they still have much work to do if they are to reach the playoffs, 4-4 looks OK following an 0-3 start.
If the Steelers are to find their way in the postseason, it will likely be the defensive that takes them there. The offense is inconsistent without quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, who underwent season-elbow surgery in September. Top running back James Conner sat out Sunday with a shoulder injury.
Fitzpatrick believes he and his still relatively new teammates on defense are up to the task.
“No matter how many times we’re on the field or how many times the other team gets the ball or how many points are on the board, we’ve just to go out there and execute at a high level,” Fitzpatrick said. “That’s what defenses are meant for. If they don’t score, they don’t win”
Fitzpatrick scored Sunday and the Steelers won. That might not have been a coincidence.
