
# 5 beer events to attend this week

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:49:15+00:00**

Author: **Bri Hall**

Original: [CHANNEL3000](https://www.channel3000.com/madison-magazine/dining-and-drink/5-beer-events-to-attend-this-week/1135781708)

Wednesday, Nov. 6"Madison's Best Friend" turns 25 on Nov. 14! The Great Dane Pub & Brewing Co. celebrates a quarter of a century with a 25th Anniversary Beer Dinner this Wednesday. The menu expertly pairs five courses with Great Dane brews, featuring a Texarkana filet mignon and a peanut butter pie for dessert. Executive chef Matt Pace will prepare the meal, and longtime Dane lovers can purchase a 22-ounce bomber of beer with their ticket for $20 more. $40. 5:30-8 p.m. Click here for more information
Thursday, Nov. 7As the holidays approach, seasonal beers become available on taps around the city. Off Broadway Drafthouse will offer a special tapping of Great Lakes Brewing Co.'s Barrel Aged Black Out Stout, along with the company's seasonal Christmas Ale and more, at Dessert Pairing with Great Lakes Brewing on Thursday. The real draw is the desserts baked up and paired with each beer. Come for a sweet treat and a cold one. 4-7 p.m. Click here for more information
Also on Thursday, beer and wine combat mano a mano at Wine vs. Beer: A Dinner Pairing Competition at vomFASS - delecTABLE. One wine and one beer pairing will accompany each of the five courses, and attendees decide which beverage goes best with the dish. At the end of the evening, and overall winner will be chosen based on the votes. $64-$79. 6-9 p.m. Click here for more information
Friday, Nov. 8For a trusty, dependable Wisconsin fish fry, head to Mint Mark for its 100th Fish Fry. This Friday marks the restaurant's 100th consecutive week serving Hamm's beer-battered bluegill. Pick up an order for lunch or dinner and take home a commemorative button. 11 a.m.-midnight. Click here for more information
Ex Libris tasting partners from around Madison join forces for Ex Libris: Timeout to Tailgate at Central Library this Friday, too. The event supports the Madison Public Library Foundation, so take part in the silent auction and enjoy game day-themed food and craft beer from local vendors. Local blues group the Jimmys will perform live, and game day attire is encouraged. $75. 7-10 p.m. Click here for more information
