
# Bill Turnbull set to replace Piers Morgan as GMB presenter in big TV comeback

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:16:46+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/bill-turnbull-set-replace-piers-17208260)

Bill Turnbull is set to make his breakfast TV comeback - by replacing Piers Morgan on Good Morning Britain.
Controversial Piers hosts the ITV1 daytime favourite each morning from Monday to Thursday.
The former newspaper editor routinely makes headlines through his controversial takes, on-air rants and explosive interviews.
But the Arsenal fan is set to be replaced by Bill, it has emerged.
The ex-BBC Breakfast host reunited with his former co-host Susanna Reid today.
Bill was asked to return to morning telly by his former co-host Susanna during an emotional interview on today's GMB.
The 63-year-old presented his last episode of BBC Breakfast with Louise Minchin back in February 2016 before being diagnosed with incurable prostate cancer back in November 2017.
Susanna asked: "What would you think about, on a day where Piers Morgan perhaps has been incapacitated.
"Why don't you come and sit next to me and present the programme?"
 
Bill confirmed he would "love" to join Susanna on the sofa again.
Bill said: "I would love to. Name the day. I wouldn't do it full-time. It's a little bit stressful and stress isn't good for the cancer. But every once in a while would be great."
He cheekily added: "What are you doing tomorrow?"
 
Piers gave his blessing after the cheeky on-air exchange.

        *Good Morning Britain airs weekdays on ITV at 6am
      
