
# Here’s how the royals would fare in today's job market - would they survive the real world?

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:29:11+00:00**

Author: **Lindsay de Freitas**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/Royal-News/heres-how-the-royals-would-fare-in-todays-job-market-would-they-survive-the-real-world-20191101)

Cape Town  – Taking into account their skills and qualifications, the likes of Prince Harry, Meghan Markle and Sophie Wessex have been analysed to find which job and annual salary they’d have if they weren’t members of the royal family.
British training and qualifications provider, The Knowledge Academy, put together CVs for members of the royal family, reports Mail Online, in an attempt to gauge how they’d do if they were to look for a job in today’s employment market.
Unsurprisingly, the Duchess of Sussex’s acting experience saw Meghan come up on top at £350 000 (R6,8 million). The experts agreed that after appearing in various well-known TV shows such as CSI: Miami and Suits, Meghan could quickly pick up where she left off in her acting career.
According to Know Networth, right before marrying Prince Harry, she made about £350 000 per year from her Suits annual salary as well as various endorsement deals and sponsorships.
With years of experience in PR – including launching her own company – Sophie, Countess of Wessex comes in second place and could be earning a salary of $75 000 (R1,46 million).
As well as starting her own PR company in 1996 – which lasted five years – the royal has headed the PR strategy at a number of organisations, including taking on the role of ski representative while working abroad in Austria and Switzerland, reports news.com.au.
Prince Edward - who after a stint in the Royal Navy, worked as production assistant at a theatre company in London - comes in just after his wife.
Later, in 1993, he owned his own TV production company where he took on the role of director. Although the company was dissolved 10 years ago, he could bag a salary of $28 000 (R548 079) as an experienced production assistant.
Future Queen Consort, Kate, Duchess of Cambridge, could be on a salary of $23 000 (R450 208) in a marketing role – taking into account her work experience before marrying Prince William.
Before Kate married Prince William, she bagged a university degree from the University of St Andrews and accepted the role of accessory buyer at high-end retailer, Jigsaw. Added to that, she worked for her parents, Carole and Michael Middleton’s party supplies company, Party Pieces.
Given their work experience, if Harry and Will weren’t members of the royal family, they’d likely only make around $21 000 (R411 059) per year in an entry-level charity role.
Researchers claim they could boost this by picking up their army careers again, with captains making $42 000 (R821 853) while majors earning as much as $55 000 (R1,07 million) per annum.
Having worked with major British organisations, like Save the Children and The Princess Royal Trust for Carers, Princess Anne has experience in charity work, but less than Harry and William. The Queen’s daughter would likely come home with only $19 000 (R371 791) should she opt for a nine-to-five.
Meanwhile, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall’s limited experience as a part-time secretary would likely see her on a salary of just £17 500 (R342 439).
Interestingly, they didn’t speculate on the expected earning potentials of Prince Charles, Prince Philip or the Queen.

        (Sources: 
        
          
            Daily Mail
          
        
        
          , 
        
        
          
            News.com.au
          
        
        
          , 
        
        
          
            Know Networth
          
        
        )
      

        (Photo: Getty/Gallo Images)
      
