
# Travel agency sues Azmin over RM329,000 unpaid travel bills

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:47:03+00:00**

Author: **Hafiz Yatim**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/travel-agency-sues-azmin-over-rm329000-unpaid-travel-bills)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 5): A travel agency has filed a suit against Economic Affairs Minister Datuk Seri Mohamed Azmin Ali over alleged non-payment of nearly RM329,000 in travel bills incurred by him and his family, including for his much-publicised Sandakan trip during the by-election there.
The suit by YHA Travel and Tours (M) Sdn Bhd was filed at the Sessions Court here on Saturday (Nov 2), through Messrs Fong Yap & Gan.
Accoding to YHA’s statement of claim that was sighted by theedgemarkets.com through a file search, Azmin had been a customer of the travel agency for 20 years.
The company claimed the PKR deputy president would normally settle his bills within three- to four months but in this instance, the payments have been outstanding for far longer.
It was referring to trips made between Sept 10, 2018 and Aug 5 this year.
They include family trips to Marrakech, London, Jakarta, Gold Coast, Dubai, Geneva, Singapore, Bangkok, Barcelona, and Santorini, YHA said.
The company also provided the itinerary of Azmin’s trips to Hanoi and Kota Kinabalu between Sept 14 and Sept 16, 2018; and to Sandakan on May 10 and May 11 this year, which was during the Sandakan by-election.
“There has never been any dispute by the defendant and any of his authorised representative that he would settle or make arrangements to settle the outstanding debts in these accounts,” YHA said in the statement of claim.
The company claimed it had sent a first letter of demand to Azmin on Aug 27 and another on Sept 30, but received no response.
“Notwithstanding the repeated demands, the defendant had failed and neglected and refused to pay the amount stipulated,” YHA said.
The company is seeking a judgment sum of RM328,901, plus interest and other relief deemed necessary by the court.
The matter has been set for case management on Dec 3.
