
# Popeyes killing: First picture of man stabbed to death over chicken sandwich row

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:22:30+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/popeyes-killing-first-picture-man-20821198)

This is the first picture to be released of the man reportedly stabbed to death in a row over a chicken sandwich at Popeyes.
Kevin Tyrell Davis, 28, of Oxon Hill, Maryland, US, was fatally knifed after he jumped the queue at the fast food restaurant on Monday, police say.
Mr Davis was stabbed outside the branch 15 seconds after being confronted by another customer for cutting in line, reports say.
At the time of the row, around three dozen people were queueing up at the restaurant, following the recent release of Popeyes hugely popular chicken burger.
 
The Popeyes chicken burger craze has gripped America, with videos emerging of impatient customers ranting and fighting over the delicious meal.
The £3.10 dish originally launched in August, however it sold out in two weeks and was only just reintroduced on Sunday.
Friends of Mr Davis described his death as 'senseless', while police called it 'pointless'.
 
Police Chief Hank Stawinski said: "Something we have to question in terms of how we're interacting with one another as a society, is how does a confrontation over cutting line lead to a death.
"People are asking how something so pointless could occur. This is pointless, this is disrespectful and that's why I'm asking for the community's help."
Mr Davis suffered a single stab wound and was rushed to hospital, however he died 51 minutes later.
Police have released CCTV images of the suspect and a woman he was with at the time of the stabbing.
Police are looking to speak to the pair, who fled the car park.
Tributes have been paid to Mr Davis, who was known as Oside KD, on Instagram .
One pal wrote: "LongLiveKD Another Bro From the Lawd. Senseless..."
