
# Ayr's nightspots are 'rife with drugs' warn council licensing bosses

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:06:09+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Hilley, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/sarah-hilley/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/ayrs-nightspots-rife-drugs-warn-20817622)

Drugs are rife inside clubs and pubs as police struggle to cope with 3.30am openings in Ayr, a councillor said. 
South Ayrshire politicians witnessed a fight in Arthur Street as they toured venues to see what police face every week. 
Another councillor told the licensing board said a dozen people could have been arrested that night. 
Police are now monitoring four venues after a number of issues came to light during another patrol.
Licensing board chair Craig Mackay said: “Drugs are a big issue. We are aware that drugs are quite rife within licensed premises.”
He added: “The premises are aware of the drugs problem. They want to overcome it but it is very difficult.”
The councillor added: “How can you deal with somebody going into the toilet taking drugs? “Do you confront them?”
Board members went on a tour of nightspots in Ayr and Prestwick on July 27 and saw a fight erupt in Arthur Street.
Councillor Mackay described it as a scuffle and said police had to try and break it up. No arrests were made.
The Troon politician said: “If the police arrest someone that is two officers out of action for the rest of the night.”
Councillor Bob Pollock, a former police inspector said: “You probably could have jailed a dozen people that night.”
He added: “The statistics you see from police don’t reflect what is happening on the ground. “Police are stopping fights happening.”
Ayr nightspots Madisons and Vinyl are being monitored by police along with two other venues, according to a report by Chief Inspector Brian Anderson.
The area commander hit the streets with officers on August 31 from 10pm to 4am to see what they have to deal with first hand.
A number of people were  given warnings by officers.
The chief inspector’s report said a number of licensing issues were uncovered at the four venues.
But the police chief said he could not release further details when asked by the Ayrshire local democracy reporting service. 
The 3.30am closures at Madisons and Vinyl cost £400 in police overtime on August 31, according to the report. 
It also had an impact on officers being able to start a late shift the following day as they need 11 hours off between spells of duty. 
The licensing board is reviewing the future of late closures in the area and a decision is expected at the next meeting.
But pubs and clubs say extended hours are vital to host popular DJs and celebrities, which draw the crowds in.
