
# What’s going on Monday?

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **BrooklynVegan Staff**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/whats-going-on-monday-175/)

You can browse our full NYC show calendar for all of tonight’s shows, but here are some highlights…
Clairo, beabadoobee, Hello Yello @ Brooklyn SteelAlt-pop artist Clairo has seen a wave of success thanks to her catchy, Rostam-produced debut album Immunity, and this Brooklyn show also features fellow bedroom pop artist beabadoobee and Oakland funk trio Hello Yello.
New York Comedy FestivalIt’s the first day of the 2019 New York Comedy Festival which has shows all over the five boroughs and runs through Sunday.
Stand Up For Heroes @ The Theater at Madison Square GardenIt’s the NY Comedy Fest big kickoff event, the annual Stand Up for Heroes charity show, featuring Bruce Springsteen, Jon Stewart, John Oliver, Hasan Minhaj, and Ronny Chieng.
Nile, Terrorizer, Dead City Crown, The Silencer @ Gramercy TheatreDeath metal vets Nile and grindcore vets Terrorizer are on the road together, and that killer pairing hits NYC tonight. Nile are supporting their just-released Vile Nilotic Rites, while Terrorizer are still touring in support of last year’s Caustic Attack.
Butterboy Comedy @ LittlefieldJo Firestone, Aparna Nancherla and Maeve Higgins are all in the house for this NYCF edition of Butterboy featuring a pretty killer lineup of Janeane Garofalo (Wet Hot American Summer), Hari Kondabolu (The Problem with Apu), The Lucas Brothers (Tonight Show, Lucas Bros Moving Co), Lorelei Ramirez (Los Espookys), Clare O’kane (Vice’s Flophouse), and Kaleb Stewart (Comedy Central’s Up Next)
For all of tonight’s shows, and tomorrow’s, check out our NYC concert calendar.
For laughs, check out the NYC Comedy calendar too.
————-—
Follow @BrooklynVegan on Twitter.Follow @bvChicago for just Chicago stuff.Also follow @bvAustin for just Austin stuff.
Be our friend on Facebook too, and BV Austin’s friend on Facebook and BV Chicago’s friend on Facebook.
Follow BrooklynVegan on instagram.
What else?
——————-
Browse our ‘Tickets On Sale‘ tag for more recently announced NYC shows.
Browse our NYC Concert Calendar for shows happening today and every day – comedy shows, heavy metal concerts (courtesy of our heavy metal blog), and free shows included.
