
# 'Shocking' - Helder Costa has been sent a big Leeds United warning

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:31:24+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/helder-costa-leeds-united-wolves-17200705)

Helder Costa has been criticised again as his Leeds United sticky patch continues.
The winger joined the Championship promotion hopefuls on a season-long loan from Wolverhampton Wanderers in the summer and he’ll become their record buy when the move is made permanent for £15m next year.
But three months into the season, Costa is still waiting for his first goal in the league and has provided just one assist.
His only goal in Leeds colours so far came against Stoke City in the Carabao Cup back in August.
This is your round up of all things Wolves; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Wolves throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WWFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Wolves reporter Alex Dicken on Twitter, and his email address is Alex.Dicken@reachplc.com
 
Saturday’s 2-0 win over QPR was Costa’s seventh Championship start this campaign and former Whites forward Noel Whelan says the 25-year-old must improve.
“We saw it in the cup games, we saw it in maybe one Championship game but that’s it, flashes,” Whelan told Football Insider. “He needs to be more consistent over 90 minutes and he looks a little bit lost out there at times.
“He’s not that player that’s gliding past defenders, giving them a torrid time over 90 minutes, taking the game by the scruff of the neck.
“A player of that sort of quality and of that sort of hype should be an absolute standout. He’s just kind of drifting through games. He’s been shocking at times and non-existent in games.”
 
Costa moved to Leeds having found opportunities more difficult to come by at Wolves last season.
Contributing 12 goals and 11 assists in his debut campaign after signing from Benfica, he remained a valuable member of the side after Nuno Espirito Santo was appointed as head coach, scoring five and assisting six as Wolves raced to the Championship title.
But his playing time dwindled in the second half of his maiden Premier League campaign, starting just one match after the turn of the year.
