
# Chevrolet Debuts One-Off COPO Camaro John Force Edition For SEMA

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:09:01+00:00**

Author: **Christopher Smith**

Original: [Motor1.com](https://www.motor1.com/news/380352/chevrolet-copo-camaro-john-force-sema/?utm_source=RSS&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=RSS-all-)

We’re on the eve of the 2019 SEMA Show, and Chevrolet is marking the occasion with a rather special one-off Camaro. Bow Tie fans know all about the COPO Camaros, built in limited numbers and earmarked specifically for NHRA drag racing competition. 69 such machines are slated for production in 2020, as-is the case every year. Technically speaking, 70 will come to life for 2020, but none of them are like this menacing black monster. That’s because it’s a one-off build that will head to Barrett-Jackson’s Scottsdale auction in January.
It’s also special because it’s adorned with the name of John Force, a straight-up legend in the world of NHRA drag racing. The 16-time champion’s name is literally all over the car, which also wears a black/silver paint scheme with a red-trimmed interior. The exterior finish – sans the name, obviously – is actually available on the 69 production COPOs, along with Summit White, Satin Steel Gray, and Red. Seven additional heritage colors will also be on the options list. Two engine choices include a supercharged LSX-based 5.7-liter V8, or a naturally-aspirated 7.0-liter V8.
Chevrolet's annual run of 69 COPO Camaros is an homage to when the first COPO appeared in 1969. As mentioned, this particular one-off John Force Edition is not considered part of the annual build. It's ultimately destined for Barrett-Jackson's big Scottsdale auction in January, and when it crosses the block, all proceeds from the sale will go to DonorsChoose.org.
“This is a great-looking COPO Camaro, and I enjoyed helping design this car,” said John Force in a press release from Chevrolet. “The COPO Camaro is already a formidable car, and hard to beat on the track. But this one is even more special, as it will help support a cause I firmly believe in.”
You can see the 2020 Chevrolet COPO Camaro this week at the 2019 SEMA Show in Las Vegas.
Source: Chevrolet via Muscle Cars & Trucks
LAS VEGAS — Chevrolet will introduce the 2020 COPO Camaro John Force Edition at the 2019 SEMA Show, bringing together the legacies of Chevrolet’s factory race car and the 16-time NHRA champion driver in a distinctively styled, supercharged race car — and one that will deliver for charity, as well as low elapsed times on the drag strip.
“John Force is one of the most legendary drag racers in history – and his legend started with Chevrolet,” said Jim Campbell, GM U.S. vice president of Performance and Motorsports. “We are proud to partner with him on this one-of-a-kind COPO Camaro and are excited to see what it will do on the auction block for charity.”
Chevrolet will auction the COPO Camaro John Force Edition at the 2020 Barrett-Jackson Scottsdale event in January, with the proceeds going to DonorsChoose.org. It carries a unique “2020COPO-FORCE” identification plaque and is considered a unique build in the COPO Camaro range – not part of the annual production run of 69 COPO Camaro race cars.
Since 2012, Chevrolet has produced 552 COPO Camaros (only 69 per year), making them incredibly rare factory race cars. During that time, five COPO Camaros have crossed the auction block for charity, raising nearly $2 million for a variety of important causes.
“This is a great-looking COPO Camaro, and I enjoyed helping design this car,” said John Force. “The COPO Camaro is already a formidable car, and hard to beat on the track. But this one is even more special, as it will help support a cause I firmly believe in.”
Additionally, a black-and-silver paint scheme inspired by the John Force Edition is an available option on 2020 COPO Camaros. In fact, there are more color choices than ever when it comes to ordering the factory-built race cars. Along with the John Force color scheme and four production colors — Black, Summit White, Satin Steel Gray and Red — there are seven heritage colors from the 1969 Camaro color palette: Hugger Orange, Butternut Yellow, Frost Green Poly, Olympic Gold Poly, Garnet Red, Fathom Green Poly and Azure Turquoise Poly.
The 2020 COPO Camaro’s available engine lineup includes a revised version of the supercharged, LSX-based 350 engine, featuring a 2.65L Magnuson supercharger and all-new LSX-SC cylinder heads, as well as an LSX-based naturally aspirated 427 engine. Also available is the Racer’s Package, which includes a carbon-fiber air inlet, dual batteries, weight box, parachute and a quick-change coupling (with the supercharged engine).
Customers can register for a chance to purchase a 2020 COPO Camaro at www.chevrolet.com/performance/copo-camaro.
Chevrolet concepts and personalized production vehiclesThe 2020 COPO Camaro John Force Edition is the centerpiece of Chevrolet’s performance- and personalization-focused display, which also features the all-new, mid-engine 2020 Chevrolet Corvette Stingray, the all-new Camaro LT1, concept and production versions of the Silverado and Colorado, new crate engine systems and more.
Highlights:
Chevrolet’s concepts, show vehicles, performance parts and accessories are on display at the SEMA Show, in Las Vegas, through Nov.8.
