
# Online video streaming service that tells African stories launched in Kenya

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:18:05+00:00**

Author: **CORRESPONDENT**

Original: [Capital Business](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/business/2019/11/online-video-streaming-service-that-tells-african-stories-launched-in-kenya/)

NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 2 – Creatives Garage, a Kenyan firm that provides space for artists and content producers, has launched an online media streaming and video on demand (VOD)platform specifically for African stories.
The platform dubbed Kalabars, allows audience to view quality films, series, documentaries, music videos and listen to-audio content, on smart devices with a bias on African stories.
ADVERTISEMENT
This is the only platform in the market that encompasses audio content.
Creative Garage CEO Liz Kilili says Kalabars exists to share quality content with an audience that craves authentic African stories.
African content creators will now have a platform to share their content with global audiences which is an instrumental element of sustainable art and culture ecosystem.
The move is aimed at getting Africa to tell it’s story and increase revenue for African content creators. This is also aimed at strengthening social fabric, leading to cohesion via the promotion of intercultural expression through impactful art.
“Our target demographic primarily encompasses the 18-45 age group who are tech-savvy and experimental. Content creators will be able to upload and monetize their content to Kalabars that will be available via mobile and web versions accessible through a myriad of devices,” Kilili said.
Kalabars capacity development currently consists of targeted residency programs for content creators through experiential learning, mentorship and peer to peer learning sessions.
Kalabars also acts as a marketing and distribution platform for hosted content to increase sustainable earnings for creative artists.
Creatives Garage is a multi-disciplinary aggregate space for creative artists to organize, share thoughts, synergize and collaborate with a primary focus of creating market access for their creative products and services.
The investment comes even as streaming video on demand services across Africa are set for a boom.
This is due to an expected surge in subscribers due to high penetration of digital devices and internet subscription.
There is also high demand for local language films in the continent that has seen many film makers emerge in different regions across the continent.
“Film in Africa is very critical especially in developing an informed populace as well as reframing how Africa is viewed throughout the world,” Kilili noted.
