
# The first OnePlus smartwatch could arrive with the OnePlus 8

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:48:56+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/the-first-oneplus-smartwatch-could-arrive-with-the-oneplus-8/)

The first OnePlus smartwatch could arrive with the OnePlus 84.4 (87.5%) 8 votes
There is very little time left to know all the official specifications that the Mi Watch will boast, the first Xiaomi smartwatch that will have the company’s brand. But even before reaching the market, a tough competitor has already appeared: the OnePlus smartwatch.
OnePlus, has become one of the mobile phone vendors best valued by users. But its commercial development has resulted in the commercialization of other products besides smartphones. On the one hand, we have wireless headphones and on the other hand the brand has recently launched its first Smart TV in India with leading features such as Dolby Atmos and Dolby Vision.
Given that the brand is one of the main rivals of Xiaomi, it should not surprise anyone that the brand is preparing to launch its first smartwatch. The image that you see below shows the sketches of the first design idea that the co-founder of OnePlus had to develop for the smarwatch that was supposedly in development years ago and that it was finally nothing, but today the rumors of the OnePlus smartwatch comes again.
According to the latest report on the company’s future launches. In addition to the OnePlus 8. The company is working on its first smartwatch to be launched. Alongside its new flagship during the first months of 2020. Obviously, there we have not much data about it but it is already anticipated that it would receive the name of OnePlus Watch.
Although there is no concrete evidence to prove the existence of the OnePlus watch. The Chinese brand is likely to make this move so as not to be left behind in the market. Especially after the imminent launch of the Xiaomi smartwatch. And the acquisition of Fitbit by Google, to develop its own WearOS.
At first, we would be facing a new watch running on Google’s WearOS operating system. But, unlike the Xiaomi smartwatch, it would have a higher price. Given the relationship between OnePlus and Qualcomm. It is quite likely that the OnePlus processor is powered by a Qualcomm chipset. With at least one gigabyte of RAM and 8 GB of storage. It is unknown if it would have a square design like the Apple Watch. Or circular like the Huawei models, but soon we will have new news about this new wearable.
