
# Deontay Wilder sent warning by Luis Ortiz ahead of heavyweight title rematch

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:24:36+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/deontay-wilder-sent-warning-luis-20820001)

Luis Ortiz has warned Deontay Wilder he has learnt lessons from his defeat in their first fight - and claimed he is heading into their rematch a better fighter.
The experienced Cuban gave Wilder a huge test in their first bout last March before gassing out in the latter stages and being knocked out in the 10th round.
Ortiz will now look to cause another upset in the heavyweight division as the pair battle in a rematch for the WBC heavyweight belt on November 23.
Wilder is the overwhelming favourite to maintain his unbeaten record - but Ortiz says he is in top condition and capable of more than he showed first time around.
Mirror Fighting has launched a new weekly boxing show in association with Betfair in which we analyse the latest big fights, play matchmaker, and preview forthcoming bouts.
Former super-middleweight world champion George Groves provides expert analysis.
To watch the latest show in full, click here.
"We are correcting things from the last fight [with Wilder] that won’t happen in the rematch, and looking for the best for me and my team,” Ortiz told Fighthub.
“A lot of things happened in the camp, and in the fight and even in the hours before the fight. There are no excuses, and it won’t happen like it did last time.
"I have one of the best physical trainers, and my trainer is 100 percent on me. My condition is 100%. I know for a fact I won’t gas out on the night of the fight.
"Wilder knows and if he’s not prepared and taking me seriously, he’s in big trouble. I saw there were mistakes I made in the fight, and what I’ve done is strengthen my preparation so that I don’t repeat that.
"I await November 23 to be world champion, and realize my dream. Everything that happened. It just wasn’t my night.
“I just want to show the world that I’m better, and the best. I’m going to fight this fight differently. When the bell sounds on November 23, I will be the difference, and do everything I have done in my whole life and I will do that night."
