
# Pique Names Four Real Players He Gets Along With

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/gerard-pique-names-four-real-madrid-players-he-gets-along-with/666520)

With FC Barcelona's Gerard Pique often seen as a controversial figure always ready to throw jabs at Real Madrid, the defender has now named a few Los Blancos stars he actually does get along with.

        
          Click through the mini-gallery above to see the four players with ties to Real Pique gets on with!
        
      
The centre-back has enjoyed his fair share of player spats over the years, especially with players from Barca's eternal rivals, and especially with their captain Sergio Ramos.
However, it seems that Pique, contrary to popular belief, does have healthy relationships with a few Los Blancos stars, and he includes Alvaro Morata in that list, despite the striker no longer donning the 13-time UEFA Champions League winners' shirt.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
"I get on really well with Nacho, also with Lucas Vazquez," he said, according to Sport. 
"I wouldn't say Sergio Ramos and I are friends, but we have a cordial relationship and there's a lot of respect.
"It's the same with Alvaro Morata, who's now not at Real Madrid (he's at Atletico Madrid).
"I have always got on really well with them."

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
Pique has played against Real 35 times in his trophy-laden career thus far, winning 18 of those matches, drawing nine and losing nine.
