
# Galaxy S11e To Ship With A Considerably Larger Battery

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:44:38+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/galaxy-s11e-to-ship-with-a-considerably-larger-battery.html)

According to newly-surfaced information, the Samsung Galaxy S11e will have a larger battery than its predecessor. To be more specific, it will have a 20%+ larger higher battery capacity compared to the Galaxy S10e.
This info comes from SafetyKorea, as a new Samsung-branded battery has been certified. This battery comes with a model number EB-BG980ABY, and is meant to be included in the Galaxy phone with a model number 'G980'.
The Samsung Galaxy S10e was marked as the 'SM-G970', so, by sheer logic, the Galaxy S11e will be marked with an 'SM-G980' model number.
Advertisement
A photo of the image has been provided, though exact mAh was not listed. What can be seen is that this battery is rated at 14.36Wh. Now, if we take into consideration that the battery operates at 3.85V, you'll realize that this battery comes with a capacity of 3,730mAh.
If 3,730mAh is its rated capacity, its typical capacity will be 3,800 or 3,900mAh, most probably. That is quite an improvement over what the Galaxy S10e delivered. The Galaxy S10e includes a 3,100mAh battery, and battery life is often mentioned as this phone's major downside.
If Samsung ends up keeping a 5.8-inch fullHD+ display on the Galaxy S11e, which could easily happen, that device may end up providing considerably better battery life.
Advertisement
A 3,800-3,900mAh battery on a 5.8-inch fullHD+ OLED display would be more than enough to please users. Presuming that Samsung will do some optimizations on the software side as well, of course.
Don't get us wrong, the Galaxy S10e battery life isn't horrible by any means, but it's not great either. If that device ended up shipping with a 3,800-3,900mAh unit instead, that would be a completely different story.
The Samsung Galaxy S11e is not expected to arrive until February or March. That is when Samsung is expected to present its Galaxy S11 series of devices.
Advertisement
The Galaxy S11e is expected to arrive alongside the Galaxy S11 and S11+. That has not been confirmed just yet, though, so Samsung may opt to change up its flagship phones and their branding.
It is nice to see that the company is planning to make some improvements in the battery capacity department. We do hope that the company will do the same for the Galaxy S11 and S11+ as well.
All of those devices will probably be made out of metal and glass. They will all include OLED displays, and ship with Android 10 out of the box. We're also expecting Samsung to implement a periscope-style camera in the Galaxy S11 series.
Advertisement
