
# “It is fire. Its banging trailer,” Ranveer Singh reviews best friend Arjun Kapoor’s ‘Panipat’

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:04:49+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/it-is-fire-its-banging-trailer-ranveer-singh-reviews-best-friend-arjun-kapoors-panipat/articleshow/71920849.cms)

An energetic Ranveer Singh took to Instagram to connect with fans and review the trailer of his best friend, Arjun Kapoor starrer ‘Panipat’. Arjun plays the role of Maratha warrior Sadashiv Rao Bhau in the period drama. And during the Insta live session, Ranveer went on to laud Arjun and said, “Sadashiv Bhau is here”, praising the trailer he added, “It is fire. Its banging trailer.” Dressed in his usual funky attire, the actor sported a bowler hat, leopard print t-shirt and a chunky chain. Seemed like the actor was en route to the shoot of his next film when he decided to embark on this social media session with fans.
Ranveer recently returned from the shoot of ‘83’ in London. The actor underwent rigorous cricket training for his role of legendary cricketer Kapil Dev. Directed by Kabir Khan, the sports drama is based on India’s historic World Cup victory of 1983. Deepika Padukone will be seen playing Ranveer’s onscreen wife in this film which is scheduled to hit the screens on 10 April 2020.
Apart from this, Ranveer will also be seen playing one of the leads in ‘Takht’. Directed by Karan Johar, the multi-starrer also features Kareena Kapoor Khan, Anil Kapoor, Vicky Kaushal, Alia Bhatt, Bhumi Pednekar and Janhvi Kapoor.
