
# Naoya Inoue Vs. Nonito Donaire: Date, Time, TV And Live Stream Info

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/05/naoya-inoue-vs-nonito-donaire-date-time-tv-and-live-stream-info/)

I believe Naoya Inoue is one of the three best fighters in the world. On Thursday morning, we’ll see the Japanese dynamo known as “The Monster” getting perhaps the biggest test of his career.Here’s how you can watch Inoue battle Nonito Donaire in a bantamweight unification bout, that is also the finals of the World Boxing Super Series tournament.

        The Draw
      
At 26 years old, Inoue is one of the brightest stars in boxing. The IBF champion is 18-0 with 16 KOs in his career. Most recently, he scored an explosive second-round KO over Emmanuel Rodriguez. Inoue’s combination of speed, power and defensive instincts makes him the most complete fighting machine in the sport, in my opinion.
He’s the kind of fighter that you hear about, but may have never seen fight live. If that’s the case, you’ll want to try to get a look at him in this bout live, or perhaps later in the day considering it’s such an early start.
Donaire is 36 years old, but still skilled and dangerous. That’s evidenced by his presence in the finals of the WBSS. In his last two fights, he has stopped Ryan Burnett and Stephon Young. Despite his age, the power and experience Donaire brings into the ring makes him a formidable opponent for Inoue. He’ll stake his WBC title in an effort to unify half of the belts in the bantamweight division.
This could be a statement win for Inoue or a fight that serves to bring him down to Earth.

        The Undercard
      
There are only two fights listed on the card, per BoxRec. Thankfully, both are championship bouts. Preceding Inoue-Donaire, fans in the United States who wake up early enough to watch will see the undefeated Nordine Oubaali defend his WBC Bantamweight title against Naoya’s undefeated brother Takuma Inoue. clearly, this could be an epic night for the Inoue family as if things go as planned, they could both leave with the biggest wins of their careers.
This is a rarest of rare Thursday card, and it’s happening early in the morning. I’m not sure how many people in the United States or North America will get an opportunity to watch it live, but something tells me it could be worth it. I
