
# Ambitious plans for new business hub on edge of Plymouth finally move forward

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:33:22+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Clark**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/ambitious-plans-new-business-hub-3503612)

Nearly 20 years in the making, plans for a new thriving commercial centre on the edge of Plymouth are finally set to emerge.
The Langage Energy Park is a major strategic employment development site in the South West, but since the original planning application for Langage Power Station was approved 20 years ago, there has been limited additional commercial development on the site.
But a new partnership has been formed between South Hams District Council, Langage Power Station and Langage Energy Park Limited to kick-start the creation for small business units for start-ups on the site, just outside Plympton.
A planning application is set to be submitted by April to include 10 new starter units (30,000 sq. ft. of space), a unit for a commercial tenant (10,000 sq. ft.) and a further unit (10,000 sq. ft.) that the council may have the option to buy.
Cllr Hilary Bastone, Deputy Leader of South Hams District Council said: “This is exciting news for the South Hams. It was always the intention, through S106 contributions that Langage Energy Park would help us deliver new starter units at Langage and I am delighted to see these conversations move a step closer.
"We are not there yet, but conversations are definitely moving in the right direction.
“It is really important to us that we can provide opportunities for businesses to flourish in the South Hams.  This is a great opportunity for us to promote employment, commerce and enterprise locally.”
A report of Chris Brook, Director – Place and Enterprise, to last Thursday’s executive meeting, said: “Langage Energy Park has been in existence since the planning was granted in November 2000. For various reasons, little development has occurred in that period. However more recently a partnership approach between the Council and the owner Langage Energy Park Limited has started to yield results.
“The current S106 agreement for the site requires LEPL to provide a site for 30,000 sq ft of “starter units” which are small business units such as we own and rent out in many other parts of the district. The site is only required to be for 21yrs under the S106.
“A commercial negotiation over the lease length of the starter units has also been undertaken and agreement reached that the lease term can be extended from 21 years to 125 years.
“The best outcome for the Energy Park is for it to become a thriving commercial centre, promoting employment, commerce and enterprise within South Hams. Langage Energy Park may become a success without the engagement of the council, however history suggest it will be harder and slower.
“The demand for good quality starter units of 1000 sq ft is strong across the District and Langage. Therefore uptake of the units is not considered an undue risk.”
The executive recommended that Full Council approve the use of up to £200,000 to fund the cost of extending the lease of the starter units from 21 years to 125 years, funded from the power station business rate reserve.
David Bee from Langage Energy Park added: “Langage Energy Park Ltd is committed to progressing its development plans for the Energy Park and is looking forward to seeing commercial growth and development in the near future. We are working in close partnership with South Hams District Council to make this a success.”
