
# Will ensure Shastri's involvement is more at NCA till he's coach, confirms Sourav Ganguly

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:00:28+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/will-ensure-shastris-involvement-is-more-at-nca-till-hes-coach-confirms-sourav-ganguly?utm_medium=rss)


        After meeting Rahul Dravid to chalk out NCA roadmap, Sourav Ganguly has clarified that he wants Ravi Shastri to be more 'involved' with NCA activities till the time the latter is the coach of the Indian team. The BCCI president has also added that NCA will get a lot bigger in the coming days.
      
When Sourav Ganguly was a part of the Cricket Advisory Committee, he was at the forefront of selecting Anil Kumble as the head coach of the Indian team, before unexpected circumstances led to Ravi Shastri returning to the position, a year later. The selection process was much publicised, and the duo had also got into a spat in public.
Now, that Ganguly is back in Indian cricket as the president of the board, the duo committed to a strong professional work relationship. Now, after meeting NCA director Dravid, Ganguly confirmed that he would create a system where Shastri's involvement is more at NCA till he's the coach of the Indian team.
"The meeting went for about two hours. I met him (Dravid) separately also to chalk out the way forward. We will create a system where Ravi's involvement is more at the NCA till the time he's coach," Ganguly told Times of India.
"Rahul (Dravid) is there, Paras Mhambrey (India U-19 and 'A' coach) is there. Bharat Arun (India bowling coach) also goes there. So we will try and make it a good centre of excellence," he said.
Recently, the National Cricket Academy has acquired a bad name for mismanagement of certain injuries, with the primary one being Wriddhiman Saha and Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Ganguly, however, felt otherwise.
"A lot of work is done at NCA. We are building a new NCA. Bigger the space, the better it is. Hopefully, the NCA will get a lot bigger in the coming days," he added.
