
# Birmingham MP Roger Godsiff was axed after backing LGBT equality protesters at Anderton Park School

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:07:36+00:00**

Author: **Jane Haynes, https://www.facebook.com/politicsandpeoplebrum/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/birmingham-mp-roger-godsiff-axed-17212183)

He was one of the city's longest serving MPs, and commanded one of the safest Labour seats in the city, with a majority in excess of 33,000.
But Roger Godsiff's record as MP for Birmingham Hall Green was not enough to save him after he became embroiled in the row over LGBT equality protests at a primary school in his constituency.
Today Labour's National Executive Committee sided with local activists who said Godsiff's support for protesters at Anderton Park Primary made his position 'untenable.' They had urged the party leadership to reject him and find a new candidate.
At today's NEC meeting, their request was fulfilled.
 
The announcement triggered reaction from local Labour members and LGBT campaigners who had criticised Godsiff's stand on the issue.
Human rights lawyer Nazir Afzal, who had attempted to mediate over the Anderton Park issue, said today: "I take no pleasure in Roger Godsiff being barred but his ill-informed contribution in the Relationship Education dispute did a great deal to undermine work of schools and rightly enraged equality advocates. Hard won freedoms need protecting and he didn’t do that."
Singer and LGBT campaigner Katy Bennett, who has coordinated peaceful singalongs alongside the protest rallies, tweeted: "Goodbye Godsiff!"
Lberal Democrat candidate for Hall Green, Izzy Knowles, tweeted: "This is the chance for Hall Green to select a local champion who really cares for all of the community and has been fighting for three years to #StopBrexit in this highly #remain seat"
Local councillor Kerry Jenkins (Labour, Moseley), who had supported Anderton Park Primary head Sarah Hewitt-Clarkson throughout the protests, said it was the right call.
"I'm very pleased that the Labour NEC have taken this brave decision," she said.
"I've been contacted over the past couple of weeks by so many Moseley residents who want to vote Labour, but who could not in good conscience bring themselves to do so without a new candidate.
"I know they will welcome this news.
 
"We now need to select a new candidate and focus on what we do best which is getting out on the doorstep talking to residents about our fantastic policies and sharing truth rather than propaganda about how we will tackle Brexit by giving the power back to the people in a referendum. It really is time for change."
Lou Robson, representing Hall Green North and chair of Moseley and Kings Heath Labour Party, said: "Labour Party members in Moseley and Kings Heath, Sparkhill and Hall Green branches voted overwhelmingly to be able to choose a new candidate as our MP.
"The country desperately needs the change that a Labour Government will bring and we are glad that the NEC has recognised local members and supporters’ wishes.
"I look forward to campaigning for a Labour victory with a unifying new candidate who will stand up for the people and communities of Birmingham Hall Green.“
 
Godsiff, aged 73, who has been an MP in the city since 1992, had battled to save his job after local members voted not to automatically endorse him.
He faced a barrage of criticism after backing protest leaders in their stance over LGBT equality messages shared with pupils at the school in Sparkhill.
In an exclusive first interview on the issue with BirminghamLive, he revealed that he agreed that younger children at primary schools were 'too young' to learn about the existence and equality of LGBT+ people; and he criticised the school for not consulting more with parents.
He said more 'sensitive' consultation was needed because some local families had difficulty accepting equality legislation because of their religious beliefs.
His comments triggered a media storm and a backlash from Labour supporters, and led to an official reprimand from chief whip Nick Brown.
He later claimed he had been the victim of a witch-hunt over the issue, Speaking in the House of Commons, he told MPs that protesters had been falsely accused of "homophobic hatred" - adding: "The local member of Parliament, having weighed up the evidence, listened to all sides of the argument, came down to the conclusion that the people who were protesting had just reasons to complain and to protest...that merely added an additional target for the witch hunters, and increased the lust for a sacrifice irrespective of the facts."
The school has been at the centre of a national storm over  LGBT teachings , with crowds of parents staging daily demonstrations outside the gates until a temporary exclusion zone was thrown around it in June.
In the run up to today's NEC selection meeting, Mr Godsiff pressed home his case in a letter sent to local members, in which he said he was the only MP who has stood up for Muslim parents over the Anderton Park school issue.
He wrote: "I have spoken out in support of Muslim parents who were protesting about the way their young children were being encouraged to examine their sexuality without any parental involvement. No other politician has been prepared to publicly support the Muslim parents."
We understand that this letter, along with other complaints and concerns from Labour members, formed part of the discussions around his candidacy.
Not everyone was pleased with the decision to end his career as a Labour MP so abruptly.
Najib Afsar, who has supported the Anderton Park protests and is father of protest coordinators Shakeel and Rosina Afsar, said the decision was a "travesty".
"What the Labour Party have done is demonstrate that they are against parents," he said.
"I am sure if Roger Godsiff chose to stand now as an independent candidate he would have a lot of support and would have a big impact on Labour.
"Nobody - neither the protesters or Roger Godsiff - were ever against a particular community. It was a question of age appropriateness, that is all.
"He came out as a leader, not as a robot who could be manipulated by a few people in London. We applaud him and thank him."
In theory, Mr Godsiff is still free to stand for election but he would not be the Labour candidate.
He is officially no longer an MP.
We understand five candidates had put their names forward as potential alternative candidates for Labour. One of those was Cllr Sharon Thompson, Birmingham City Council's Cabinet Member for Housing. If she was selected and won, she would become Birmingham's first black MP.
However, it is unlikely that the NEC will endorse a full local selection meeting and ballot; it is likely instead they will make their own pick and announce their selection shortly.
One name mentioned is Salma Yaqoob, who is currently in the running to be the Labour candidate for West Midlands Mayor.
However, she said: "I am not standing in the General Election. I have not been offered a seat, nor am I aware of anyone considering me. Anyone reporting to the contrary is misinformed."
The reselection came after Labour party members voted in October to hold a full selection contest to pick their next candidate.
The so-called "trigger ballots" meant Mr Godsiff could face a challenge from other Labour members who wanted to be the party's candidate, with members in his Hall Green constituency selecting the winner.
But when the General Election was called, the NEC intervened and took the decision out of local hands.
They later announced the sitting candidates would likely be endorsed, subject to the approval of the leadership at today's NEC meeting.
Mr Godsiff has been a Birmingham MP since 1992, representing first Sparkbrook & Small Heath and then, following boundary changes, Hall Green.
He declined our request for an interview but is expected to make a statement shortly.
