
# Pep Guardiola explains why victories over Man Utd remains managerial highlights

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:53:11+00:00**

Author: **Liam Prenderville, http://www.facebook.com/mirrorfootball**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/pep-guardiola-explains-victories-over-20812068)

Pep Guardiola admits Champions League final victories over Manchester United remain career highlights.
The City boss twice got the better of Sir Alex Ferguson with Barcelona to claim the ultimate prize in club football.
Guardiola won the treble in his first season at Barca, seeing off United 2-0 in Rome thanks to goals from Lionel Messi and Samuel Eto'o.
Discussing the victory with BT Sport's What I Wore, Guardiola said: "The semi-final against Chelsea was really tough and we were lucky.
"That United was outrageous, they were outstanding. Cristiano Ronaldo , Tevez, Berbatov, Scholes, Carrick, Giggs, Ferdinand, Vidic, Van der Sar, an incredible team."
United and Barca would lock horns again two years later at Wembley.
The Spanish giants delivered one of the finest team performances in recent times as they dominated United, with Messi, David Villa and Pedro on target.
Guardiola added: "We played really good - and we did it In the Champions League final, against Manchester United .
"United is one of the best teams in the world with an incredible manager and a top team.
"It was the final ending of what we did together.
"Wembley is a special stadium throughout my career. Winning a Champions League in the old Wembley [as a player] and one in the new one, is very special."
Manchester City continue their quest for a first European success under Guardiola when they take on Atalanta in the Champions League this week.
