
# Justice Smith and Daniella Pineda Will Return for Jurassic World 3

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:37:09+00:00**

Author: **Jake Abbate**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/movies/471303-justice-smith-and-daniella-pineda-will-return-for-jurassic-world-3)

Worlds will collide in 2021 when the stars of Jurassic World meet the heroes of the original Jurassic Park film in Jurassic World 3. Thankfully, Chris Pratt and Bryce Dallas Howard aren’t the only returning cast members coming back for another go-round with the dinosaurs. Collider is reporting that Justice Smith and Daniella Pineda will also come back for the upcoming third installment.
Smith and Pineda made their franchise debuts in Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom as Franklin Webb and Zia Rodriguez, respectively. Franklin originally worked in IT for Jurassic World before the park’s collapse, and later became a systems analyst and hacker for the Dinosaur Protection Group. Zia was the group’s paleoveterinarian who once served in the Marines. Both of these characters joined Owen Grady and Claire Dearing on their trip to Isla Nublar in Fallen Kingdom. Unfortunately, their dinosaur rescue mission turned out to be something more nefarious. Franklin and Zia eventually helped Owen and Claire stop Eli Mills’ plans to auction off dinosaurs to various countries.
Colin Trevorrow is back in the Jurassic World director’s chair after sitting out Fallen Kingdom. He and Universal are currently assembling a cast that also includes new additions DeWanda Wise and Mamoudou Athie. The film will presumably show the fallout from the “Neo-Jurassic Age,” where humans and dinosaurs must learn to share the planet for the first time. Fans got their first glimpse at this new world when the Battle at Big Rock short film premiered in September.
Trevorrow co-wrote the script for the new film with Emily Carmichael, and it will hit theaters on June 11, 2021.
Are you excited to see Justice Smith and Daniella Pineda reprise their roles in Jurassic World 3? Let us know in the comment section below!
