
# TRNSMT creep posed as undercover cop and pestered teenagers at music festival

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:54:05+00:00**

Author: **Connor Gordon**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/trnsmt-creep-posed-undercover-cop-20826942)

A weirdo who pestered three teenagers at the TRNSMT music festival and pretended to be an undercover police officer has been fined £750.
Stuart Robertson also pictured the 16-year-olds with his phone and followed them through Glasgow Green in July this year.
A hearing was told that Robertson was clutching a "hot dog" in his other hand at the time.
 
The 40-year-old pleaded guilty last month at Glasgow Sheriff Court to impersonating a police officer.
The court heard Robertson was drunk when he approached the trio at 11pm.
Prosecutor Rachel Meechan said: “Robertson said he was an undercover police officer.
“The teenagers ignored him but he said: ‘I’m serious, I’m an undercover police officer and don’t start your s**t.’
“He took out his phone and pointed it at them and appeared to film and photograph them.”
 
Robertson was arrested by officers and replied “I didn’t do anything” when charged.
Lawyer, Nicky Matteo, said: “This a very bizarre situation, he was drunk that day and this was immature.
“He had his phone charger and a hot dog in his other hand and this was how he presented himself.
“He is remorseful and appalled.”
Robertson, from Airdrie, was ordered to pay £750 compensation to the teenagers by Sheriff Paul Brown.
A community payback order was put on Robertson in which he will be under social work supervision for 12 months.
