
# Playgroup rejects twin boys, 3, because they have two 'unnatural' gay dads

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:47:33+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/playgroup-rejects-twin-boys-3-20832613)

Three-year-old twin boys were told to find another day care centre because their fathers are gay , it has been claimed.
The toddlers were turned away from the Swiss playgroup "for the benefit of the children".
The daycare centre in Lenzburg, Switzerland, refused to enroll Rafael and Rahul - and say they know they are discriminating.
It's owner believes that a gay couple raising children is “neither normal nor natural.”
They told Stefan, one of the twins’ fathers, that the decision was for their own good.
“She said that little ones could be very mean to each other, so she did not want to have children from a gay couple,” he told 20 Minutes .
The day care officials say it is privately funded - and is under no obligation to accept the children of same-sex couples.
When approached by Swiss newspaper Sonntagsblick , the owner refused to apologise, said she has the right to decide which children she cares for, and claimed she had been the victim of a “witch hunt".
Lawyer Cordula Niklaus said: “This case shows that protection against hatred and discrimination is a necessity. If these children had Jewish parents, such an exclusion would already be punishable."
Dad Stefan added: “It’s good that our case led to a discussion about homophobia in society.
“We hope that no other gay or lesbian couple will have to face the same discrimination that we did.”
