
# General election: Boris Johnson's team left flailing as Trump slams Brexit deal

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:19:43+00:00**

Author: **Dan Bloom, https://www.facebook.com/mirrordanbloom**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/general-election-boris-johnsons-team-20786482)

Boris Johnson's team was forced onto the back foot today after Donald Trump launched a surprise attack on the Tory leader's Brexit deal.
A Cabinet minister backpedalled furiously after the lying US President declared the new pact means the US "can't make a trade deal with the UK".
And Mr Johnson's allies were also forced to deny a pact with Nigel Farage after Trump claimed he and Boris Johnson would make a "terrific team".
The hand grenade intervention - on the racist President's pal Farage's LBC show - came just hours before the Brexit Party declare where they will stand in the general election .
Farage's announcement in Westminster will be crucial to know whether he's 'going easy' on Brexiteer Tories to help keep them in power.
 
 
Last month, a leading member of Boris Johnson's team told journalists Farage was not a "fit and proper person" and "should never be allowed anywhere near government."
Yet a Brexit Party-Tory pact was previously agreed at a local level and Boris Johnson would be powerless to stop a 'Brexit alliance' if Farage decides to lead it.
The criticism of Mr Johnson's Brexit deal may be the most damaging aspect of the interview.
Boris Johnson had boasted he'd be able to do a trade deal with the US after getting rid of Theresa May's 'backstop', which could have trapped the UK in an EU customs union.
Yet Trump disagreed. The President told LBC: "We wanna do trade with the UK and they wanna do trade with us.
"And to be honest with you this deal under certain aspects of the deal you can’t do it, you can’t do it, you can’t trade.
 
 
"I mean we can’t make a trade deal with the UK and we can be, because I think we can do many times of numbers that we’re doing right now, and certainly much bigger numbers that you’re doing under the European Union.
"So I know Boris wants to be very careful with that. Yeah because under certain ways we’re precluded which would be ridiculous."
Shadow Housing Secretary Robert Jenrick was forced to disagree today. He told the BBC: "Well, that's not how we see it.
"We think that the new deal the Prime Minister has negotiated... enables the whole of the UK to leave the EU customs union and that means that we can now strike our own free trade deals around the world."
Former Trade Secretary Liam Fox added "I don't know" what the objections actually are. He told the BBC: "
Trump's further blow was his comment on Nigel Farage doing a deal with Boris Johnson.
He told Farage: "He’s a fantastic man and I think he’s the exact right guy for the time.
"And I know you and him will end up doing something that could be terrific if you and he, if you and he get together as, you know, unstoppable force."
Mr Jenrick told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "We are not interested in doing any pacts with the Brexit Party, or, indeed with anybody else.
"We are in this to win it."
Meanwhile Labour hit back at Trump's devastating verdict on Jeremy Corbyn .
Trump said: "Corbyn would be so bad for your country.
"He’d be so bad, he’d take you in such a bad way. He’d take you into such bad places."
Shadow trade secretary Barry Gardiner told the BBC: "Of course he sides with the super-rich, Labour doesn't.
"So, it's no surprise to me that he thinks it would be bad news for people like him."
The President flatly denied the NHS would be up for grabs in trade talks.
But Jeremy Corbyn said: " Donald Trump is trying to interfere in Britain’s election to get his friend Boris Johnson elected.
"It was Trump who said in June the NHS is 'on the table'. And he knows if Labour wins US corporations won’t get their hands on it. Our NHS is not for sale."
