
# Nico Hulkenberg doesn't want to race for Williams: They need somebody else

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:21:00+00:00**

Author: **Louis Shaw**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49142/nico-hulkenberg-doesn-t-want-to-race-for-williams-they-need-somebody-else-.html)


        Nico Hulkenberg is currently without a seat in Formula 1 for next season. The German is being replaced by Esteban Ocon at Renault and his options for another seat are diminishing rapidly. One option was for Hulkenberg to go to Williams but he doesn't think that is the right choice. 
      
“I think they need somebody else," Hulkenberg said to Motorsportweek when asked about a seat at Williams. 

        “I think I’m not the right person, the right driver for them. Not that at all, it’s just where I am in my career, where they are, and the timings, I just don’t think it’s the right timing for us.
      

        “With all due respect to the team, and obviously I’ve raced for them and everything, but I don’t think that’s going to happen.”
      
Hulkenberg is regarded as one of the fastest drivers not in a top team and is unlucky not to have been given a chance to prove himself. 
“I’ve performed well over the years, very consistently, many times when it was on the verge or other people didn’t get hired or get a job, I still was wanted and hired and paid to drive,” he said.

        “That also speaks for some quality. Of course, I would like to have a different kind of record, more points and podiums and victories, but yeah, I know the reasons why, and why maybe things didn’t go that way.
      

        “I’m at peace with myself there. I sleep well at night with my eyes closed. I’d love to continue racing, but if not, then life goes on.”
      
Hulkenberg will assess his options at the end of the season and unfortunately for him he may be forced to hang up his Formula 1 hopes. 
