
# Perrie Edwards hides left hand at Little Mix PLT party amid engagement rumours

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:47:38+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Wallis**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/perrie-edwards-hides-left-hand-20830340)

Little Mix star Perrie Edwards has fuelled speculation she's engaged to boyfriend Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain by keeping her left hand hidden during an event last night.
The singer sent the nation into meltdown yesterday by hinting she's accepted a proposal from her boyfriend of three years.
Just hours later, Perrie, 26, made an appearance at the band's launch party with fashion retailer Pretty Little Thing at Anyhoe Park House in London.
She did little to silence the gossip as she kept her left hand covered with the sleeve of her shirt dress - hiding her ring finger.
During the photocall, Perrie appeared to be deliberately hiding her left hand in all her poses.
Perrie's clever choice of outfit was from the new PrettyLittleThing x Little Mix range, which they launched at a star-studded party last night.
Earlier in the day, speculation of a secret proposal circulated after the pop icon accidentally spelled her footballer boyfriend's surname wrong in an Instagram post.
Eagle-eyed fans were quick to point out Perrie's blunder but the pop star claimed she would be able to spell her beau's surname right when it belongs to her and she has to write it "all the time".
It's only natural engagement talk was swirling as the couple have been going steady for three years and moved in together earlier this year.
Over a snap of the footballer, she plastered the words: "You to me are everything my Alex Oxlade-Chamberlaine OH BABY OH BABEHHH."
The Liverpool player replied: "@perrieedwards spell my name right at least will ya."
But Perrie added fuel to the fire with her cheeky and flirty response.
She wrote: "It'll be way easier to spell when it's my second name and I have to write it all the time."
This isn't the first time the power couple have hinted at their future walk down the aisle.
Back in February at a BRIT Awards after party, the footballing hunk dropped a huge hint that he was planning to pop the question.
When asked if he was planning to put a ring on it any time soon, Alex smiled, nodded and winked, according to The Sun .
Last November, they also sparked speculation they'd secretly tied the knot after Perrie referred to Alex's mum as her "mother-in-law".
Last night Perrie joined bandmates Jesy Nelson, Jade Thirwall and Leigh-Anne Pinnock for their exclusive party to celebate their exciting collaboration with the online fashion brand.
They were joined on the night by a host of famous pals, including fellow Pretty Little Thing ambassador Molly-Mae Hague.
Little Mix's former X Factor mentor Tulisa Contostavlos and Kate Moss' 'It girl' sister Lottie Moss was also in attendance.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
