
# The Big Problem With Wealth Taxes

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:00:09+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Hemel and Rebecca Kysar**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/07/opinion/wealth-tax-constitution.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

Senator Elizabeth Warren unveiled a new wealth tax proposal last week that she says will raise — along with her previously announced wealth tax plan — $3.75 trillion over the next decade. Senator Bernie Sanders says his wealth tax will yield $4.35 trillion over the same period.
We fear these figures are vast overestimates. The likeliest outcome is that a wealth tax will raise exactly zero dollars. The problem, alas, is the Constitution. The Warren and Sanders plans run headlong into more than two centuries of precedent that cast doubt on the constitutionality of wealth taxation.
We are tax law professors who identify as liberal Democrats, donate to Democratic candidates, publicly opposed the Trump tax cuts and strongly support higher taxes on the affluent. We are heartened that prominent Democratic presidential candidates are taking the problem of wealth inequality very seriously. We are worried, though, that leading figures in our party are coalescing around an idea whose constitutionality is doubtful at best.
The constitutional objection to wealth taxation is based on two clauses that require any “direct tax” to be apportioned among the states based on population. So, since 12 percent of the population lives in California, Californians must pay 12 percent of any direct tax.
For the Warren and Sanders wealth taxes, that would be a deal breaker. To match revenue fractions to population percentages, as the Constitution’s direct tax clauses demand, we estimate that the wealth tax rate in West Virginia — the poorest state per capita — would need to be roughly 10 times the rate in more affluent California and more than 20 times the rate in prosperous Connecticut.
The Warren and Sanders wealth taxes would very likely be classified by courts as “direct taxes.” Alexander Hamilton explained in Federalist No. 36 that taxes on “houses and lands” were direct taxes. Supreme Court majorities have said on at least seven occasions that federal taxes on real property (land and buildings) are “direct taxes.” Congress enacted at least five federal property taxes in the 18th and 19th centuries and apportioned them based on state population each time.
The proposed wealth taxes would apply to real property, which would seem to make them “direct taxes.” Both plans would also tax personal property, which encompasses all assets other than land and buildings, like securities and art. Some wealth tax defenders argue that even if a tax on real property is “direct,” a tax on real plus personal property is not. The idea is that — by some feat of constitutional alchemy — combining the concededly unconstitutional tax on real property with the purportedly less problematic tax on personal property erases the flaw with the former.
Hamilton would not have agreed. In 1794, Congress passed a $16 tax on carriages, which was challenged in Hylton v. United States. Hamilton argued at the Supreme Court that the carriage tax was not a direct tax, and so did not require apportionment — and the court agreed. But in a legal brief he wrote in the case, he acknowledged that “general assessments … on the whole property of individuals” — in other words, wealth taxes — are direct taxes requiring apportionment. Hamilton’s concession is especially significant because of all the founders, he had perhaps the broadest view of Congress’s taxing power.
And again, it’s not just Hamilton who thought this. The future Chief Justice John Marshall, at the Virginia ratifying convention, said that direct taxes included not only taxes on land but at least some personal property taxes too. On at least three subsequent occasions, Supreme Court majorities have said that taxes on real and personal property are direct taxes. Chief Justice John Roberts echoed these precedents in his opinion upholding the Affordable Care Act in 2012.
A second argument made by wealth tax supporters is that the only direct taxes are taxes that can be apportioned among the states without too much hassle. They attribute this view to solo opinions by two justices in the Hylton case, Samuel Chase and James Iredell. But another member of the Hylton court, William Paterson, suggested that wealth taxes might be direct taxes too. And majorities of the court have since rejected the notion that the only direct taxes are those that can be apportioned easily. It would, in any event, be a peculiar sort of constitutional rule that applied only in cases where it had no bite.
Finally, wealth tax defenders point to the 16th Amendment, which authorizes Congress to tax “incomes, from whatever source derived, without apportionment.” The framers of the 16th Amendment thought about scrapping the direct tax clauses entirely, but they decided instead to limit the amendment to “incomes.” An income tax is a tax on wages and money received from property, while a wealth tax is a tax on the value of property itself. The amendment applies to taxes on income, not to taxes on wealth.
Wealth tax proponents might argue that progressives ought not trim their sails simply because they fear that hostile justices will strike down their policies. Certainly, it would have been bad advice to tell President Franklin Roosevelt not to pursue the New Deal because a conservative court would fight back. But this is not an instance of ideologically motivated jurists pulling a rabbit out of a hat. A good-faith reading of history and precedent would suggest that the Warren and Sanders wealth taxes are unconstitutional.
Several wealth tax advocates have argued that constitutional concerns can be addressed by enacting a “fallback” provision that would put in place other taxes on the rich if a wealth tax is struck down. Pushing one major tax change through Congress will be hard enough; passing two plans — a wealth tax plus a fallback — will be a herculean challenge. Legislators, moreover, have an independent obligation not to enact unconstitutional laws. Members of Congress would be abdicating that duty if they enacted a wealth tax they thought was constitutionally flawed.
Fortunately, there is much that Congress — in cooperation with a progressive president — could do to combat wealth inequality without running afoul of constitutional limitations. By closing loopholes and hiking rates on top earners, Congress could reduce inequality and raise trillions of dollars without a constitutional hiccup.
But a wealth tax that is struck down by the justices will do nothing to close the wealth gap. It will raise no money to pay for universal health care and child care, greater investments in education or ambitious efforts to halt global warming. It will, instead, mire the country and the courts in yearslong litigation. And it will most likely lead to a Supreme Court ruling that sends us back to square one in our fight to fix a tax system that all too often favors the rich.
Daniel Hemel is an assistant professor at the University of Chicago Law School and a visiting professor at Harvard Law School. Rebecca Kysar is a professor at Fordham University School of Law.

        The Times is committed to publishing 
        
          a diversity of letters
        
         to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some 
        
          tips
        
        . And here’s our email: 
        
          letters@nytimes.com
        
        .
      

        Follow The New York Times Opinion section on 
        
          Facebook
        
        , 
        
          Twitter (@NYTopinion)
        
         and 
        
          Instagram
        
        .
      

        Continue reading the main story
      
