
# Disabled teen with Down's syndrome forced to take 'degrading' DWP fit-for-work assessments

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:57:52+00:00**

Author: **Mike Brown**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/disabled-teen-downs-syndrome-forced-20797625)

A teenager with Down's syndrome who is confined to a wheelchair was forced to take 'degrading' assessments over his fitness to work.
Disabled Declan Kemp was made to do the tests in person after being summoned by the Department for Work and Pensions to check his ability to work, his family claim.
This was despite the 19-year-old also having a hole in his heart, scoliosis - a condition causing a painful bend of the spine - and cerebral palsy.
The assessments took place after his family applied for Universal Credit and was told he must attend in person.
Teesside Live reports he struggled through one appointment so much he fell asleep 15 minutes into it.
His relatives claim the "beautiful and happy person" had asked for a home visit after showing a health passport with all his ailments to Jobcentre staff.
Despite this, he was summoned back again, where they went through the same information, his family say.
Declan's sister and carer Sue, 41, said: "Basically, Declan's unable to work. He struggles with physical movements because of his disabilities.
 
"He left Abbey Hill school in July, and he goes to a day centre three times a week, and sometimes stays in respite care.
"My mam made a claim for Universal Credit for him, and was told he had to go for an assessment - even though he already gets PIP, so they know the conditions he has.
"The first appointment was over an hour, and he was asleep after 15 minutes. We had to go through everything as he can't speak for himself.
"But then they had to go through another assessment - and we were told he needed a sick note from the doctor, to prove he can't work.
"Why does he have to prove again that he is disabled?"
Declan, from Stockton-on-Tees, Durham, already receives Personal Independence Payment (PIP), which is intended to help adults with the extra costs of living with long-term disability.
Sue said that Declan's mum Joan, who lives with the teen, had to get another sick note as the original one ran out. Joan was told to fill in the Universal Credit journal, an online record of what claimants are doing to find work.
Sue said: "Obviously Declan can't do that, and my mam can't use the computer.
"She's been completely stressed, and he's picked up on that now and suffered because of it.
"What's happened to Declan shouldn't have happened - we need to get the message out that the system just didn't work.
"The way he has been treated is completely unnecessary, and degrading."
A DWP spokesperson said: " We are sorry that Mr Kemp's claim was not handled correctly and have apologised to his mother for any distress caused.
"There was no delay in the processing of his Universal Credit and we will make sure home visits are put in place in future.”
