
# Android 10 has begun rolling out on schedule to OnePlus 6/6T

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:10:58+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/android-10-has-begun-rolling-out-schedule-oneplus-66t?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
In October, OnePlus announced that the Android 10 update would be coming to the OnePlus 6 and 6T in November. True to its word, OnePlus started the rollout for Android 10 on Friday, November 1 for the 6T and officially announced it via the forums on Saturday.
The OnePlus 6, however, hit a small delay because of an issue with the fingerprint sensor, which has since been resolved allowing the update to begin rolling out today.
With this update, you'll see some of the Android 10-specific features come to your OnePlus 6 or 6T, such as a new UI, enhanced location permissions for privacy, and new gestures for navigation.  
There are also some OnePlus-specific features being added, including Game Space, Contextual display, and the ability to block spam keywords in the Messages app. Check the full changelog below for more info.

        Source: OnePlus
      
The update weighs in at a whopping 1.8GB, so you might want to make sure you're on Wi-Fi before beginning the update process. Like most OxygenOS updates, this one is a staged rollout with a limited number of users receiving the update in case any critical bugs occur. A wider rollout of the update will begin within the next few days. 
Best affordable flagship
The OnePlus 7T is one of the best phones of 2019, giving you a Snapdragon 855+, 8GB of RAM, and three rear cameras — all for under $600.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Facebook New Face Facebook's new corporate logo is as boring as they come Facebook has announced a new corporate logo design, as well as a corporate initiative to include the new logo on all of its major app and service properties.
      

        TikTok Ring Ring The company that owns TikTok created a smartphone for China ByteDance, the company that owns the social network service TikTok, has released a smartphone for the Chinese market with a TikTok lock screen feature.
      

        Speaker optional Nest Wifi now available, here are your buying options Google’s second-generation wireless home router goes by a new name, Nest Wifi, and its range extender now features a built-in Google Assistant speaker. The single and two-pack options are now available, but which is best for you?
      

        cover it up These cases will protect your OnePlus 6T for a long time The OnePlus 6T's glass back is prone to scratches and cracks. Keep it safe with one of these cases!
      
