
# Save $300 On The Sony X850G 4K Android TV (With Alexa Support)

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:15:29+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-sony-65-x850g-android-tv-sale-black-friday-cheap.html)

Amazon is discounting the Sony X850G 65-inch 4K Android TV, dropping a cool $300 off of the regular price. Which brings it down to just $1498.
This is the X850G model, which is one of the higher-end LCD models, and definitely worth this price.
There is HDR support here for all of the usual standards like HLG, HDR10 and even Dolby Vision. There is also "next level contrast" which is really good and might make you think that this is an OLED TV, when it isn't. Sony knows displays, so you know that this TV is going to be absolutely stunning.
Advertisement
Now internally, this has Android TV on-board. This is going to give you all of your favorite apps and games, from Android. This includes Netflix, Hulu, Google Play Movies & TV, Amazon Prime Video, YouTube and so much more. It also has the Google Assistant, so that you can control your TV with your voice, as well as ask Google questions like, how's the weather? And get that information on your TV. Which is a really cool feature.
But Sony didn't want to play to just the Google Assistant users, and has also added Amazon Alexa support on this TV (and all of its Android TVs). So no matter which personal assistant you prefer to use, both are going to be available here. Though it's worth noting that Alexa is going to take a few more steps to setup, compared to Google Assistant, which is set up when you first set up your Android TV – since it'll use the same account.
You can pick up the 65-inch Sony X850G 4K Android TV from Amazon by clicking here. Though this price on the X850G isn't going to last long, so you're going to want to pick this one up before it is gone.
Advertisement

        Sony 65-inch X850G 4K TV - Amazon - $1498
      
