
# AGO Outsourcing director set up new firm just before going bust

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:38:35+00:00**

Author: **Fraser N Wilson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-n-wilson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/ago-outsourcing-director-set-up-20823934)

The director of a firm behind a growing pay scandal at an East Kilbride call centre started a new company just weeks before calling in administrators.
And that new company is the one now paying remaining staff at AGO Outsourcing.
Liam McCreadie is registered as the director of Lakemere Global Holdings who filed for liquidation late last month.
Administrators were assigned on October 24, just a month after – on September 21 – he started new company, EK Sales Ltd.
We told you last week how a number of staff at AGO had lodged complaints that they had repeatedly not been paid correctly by bosses there.
AGO chief executive Kris McGenily told us the blame for the problems lay with Lakemere who were the “legal entity” supposed to pay staff.
When asked who the new legal entity behind AGO would be, Mr McGenily failed to reply. However, we can reveal that staff at the call centre are now being paid by EK Sales.
One former worker, who does not wish to be named, showed us her contract which states she was employed by “AGO Outsourcing,” with no reference to Lakemere in the six-page document.
Her payslip from September 30, 2019, showed she was being paid by EK Sales Ltd – however, payment into her account came from Lakemere.EK Sales is registered in the Greater London area as management consultancy activities firm.
A number of former and current staff members told the News that Mr McCreadie and Mr McGenily were known to each other personally.
Mr McGenily himself has been the director of a number of companies registered at Companies House.
He was director for Resource Energy Talent Solutions, Ella Boutique, KM Global Energy, Optimum Energy Group, Spectre International, and Aventas Group.
Aventas was liquidated with overdue accounts and confirmation statement, whilst Optimum was forced into complulsory liquidation in December 2018 with Lloyds bank listed as an entitled person
KM Global Energy was subject to a compulsory striking off order in 2015, with Ella Boutique voluntarily struck off.
Resource Energy Talent Solutions was subject to a compulsory striking off order in November 2014.
On jobs search site, Indeed, AGO has a 2.3 out of five rating following reviews from some former and existing workers.
Corporate restructuring firm, Begbies Traynor, were approached by Mr McCreadie to liquidate Lakemere following pressure on the company from creditors.
They said this week they were “unable to make any further comment” after the News asked for more information.
Mr McGenily failed to engage with the News despite repeated attempts to find out more.
