
# Man Utd transfer target Erling Braut Haaland wants Premier League move, says father

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:17:52+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/man-utd-transfer-target-erling-20824666)

Red Bull Salzburg hotshot Erling Braut Haaland wants to play in the Premier League one day, according to his father Alf-Inge.
The younger Haaland, 19, has turned heads with his remarkable goalscoring form this season, notching his 23rd strike of the campaign in Salzburg's 1-1 draw with Napoli in the Champions League on Tuesday.
That took his tally to six goals in four European games this season, and has only increased speculation over his future amid links with several big names around Europe including Manchester United , Barcelona and Real Madrid .
Alf-Inge - a former Premier League midfielder - believes that his son would suit the English top-flight, although stopped short of naming which club he'd like to join, adding that he simply supported the teams his dad played for when he was younger.
“He was a Leeds fan and a City fan and a Nottingham Forest fan – he followed me obviously, but that is what you do in your youth," the former Norway international told talkSPORT .
“It is different being a supporter and having a job.
“But he was born in Leeds.
“At one stage he would like to play in the Premier League, but when that will happen, I don’t know. It is a very tough league.
“Up to now he is ahead of the stage we thought he would be at. He is built for the Premier League, but whether that will happen now or at a later stage, we don’t know."
Haaland senior added that he sees Salzburg - a club who helped launch the careers of the likes of Sadio Mane and Naby Keita - is the perfect environment for him to flourish in.
“He is at Red Bull, a fantastic club playing Champions League so in a way he is in no hurry," he continued.
“Red Bull have shown from the past that they are a ‘middle step’ club, and if they are going to recruit players in the future they can’t put a stupid price tag on the players because nobody would want to go there.”
