
# Steven Gerrard in emphatic Ryan Jack Rangers transfer statement as Ibrox midfielder hits top gear

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:22:33+00:00**

Author: **Fraser Wilson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-wilson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/steven-gerrard-emphatic-ryan-jack-20786730)

Steven Gerrard has refused to put a price on Ryan Jack 's head - as he insists the midfielder is going nowhere.
The 27-year-old is in the form of his life and was a standout in Rangers ' 4-0 win at Ross County on Wednesday, chipping in with two excellent goals.
Jack himself admits he is playing the best football of his life, guided by midfield masters Gerrard and Gary McAllister.
But in a week when Celtic boss Neil Lennon slapped a £25million price tag on James Forrest's head, Gerrard was unwilling to do likewise with his Scottish star.
Former Aberdeen ace Jack has four years left on his contract at Ibrox and Gerrard, previewing Sunday's Betfred Cup semi-final against Hearts , said: "I think Ryan is bringing the best out of himself.
"He is the one who deserves credit and the staff, as a whole, have all helped. But Ryan is certainly someone who comes in here on a daily basis and tries to be the best training.
"I'm not interested in Ryan's value, he isn't going anywhere."
Meanwhile, Gerrard paid tribute to Craig Levein after Hearts wielded the axe on the under fire boss on Thursday, just three days ahead of the Hampden clash.
 
The Jambos held Rangers to a 1-1 draw just a fortnight ago. But Wednesday's 1-0 defeat to St Johnstone plunged them back level bottom of the Premiership, throwing them into turmoil ahead of Sunday's semi-final.
Gerrard reckons it will have no affect on his game preparation as he looks to make up for the dismal defeat to Aberdeen at the same stage of the competition a year ago.
"I never ever like to see another manager lose their job and I feel for Craig," said Gerrard. "I'm probably surprised a little bit at the timing. It can be a brutal industry at times.
"It doesn't have an effect on how we prepare, of course, they may do something different with the tactics and formations but we always have that challenge going into every game.
"There is pressure on Rangers to win every game, of course, a semi-final matters but we are expected to win every match.
"Last year at Hampden was a blow but I am very much someone who looks forward and not behind, all we can do is control what happens going forward.
"We have two forwards in great form so we certainly go into this semi-final in better shape but we have to go to our talking on the pitch, Hearts have good players and they will compete and play to their strengths.
"Tynecastle was a reminder that you have to earn the right to play, you can't just turn up. You have to match the physicality in the opening stages."
Allan McGregor remains a doubt for Sunday's clash but Borna Barisic will be fit after being taken off against County as a precaution.
