
# ‘Scarface’ 4K Blu-ray Review: Say Hello To My Detailed Friend

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **John Archer**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/johnarcher/2019/11/01/scarface-4k-blu-ray-review-say-hello-to-my-detailed-friend/)

The FilmI swear Scarface just gets better with age. The further we get from the very specific time in human and cinema history it represents (this 4K Blu-ray marks its 35th anniversary!), the more vibrant and powerful its dazzling tale of a gangster’s meteoric rise and blazing fall becomes.
The quality of Al Pacino’s performance and Brian De Palma’s direction hold up fantastically well, with your appreciation for both increasing with every viewing. 
If you’re already a fan, though, you’ve probably already got the film on Blu-ray courtesy of its 2011 release on that format. So the question is, is it worth coughing up again for this new 4K version?

        Release details
      
Studio: Universal Pictures
What you get: Region-free 4K Blu-ray, Region A/B/C HD Blu-ray, Movies Anywhere code
Extra features: 35th Reunion group interview; The Scarface Phenomenon retrospective documentary; 22 minutes of deleted scenes; mini documentary on the actors; retrospective making of documentary; featurette on cutting and dubbing the film for TV; featurette looking at how Scarface was inspired by the 1930s film of the same name; a featurette on the the real world circumstances Scarface is set against; a behind the scenes look at the making of the 2006 Scarface video game
Best sound mix: DTS:X
HDR Options: HDR10
HDR Metadata: 155 MaxFALL and 1000 nits MaxCLL
Key kit used for this review: Panasonic 65GZ1500, Samsung 65Q90R, Panasonic UB820, Oppo 205

        Picture Quality
      
I’m a bit torn on this one, unfortunately. There are some good aspects to the 4K transfer, but it certainly not up there with the very best 4K remasters we’ve seen.
Its biggest strength - with some scenes, at least - is its detail. The 4K master sometimes brings out much more of the minutiae present in the original ‘analogue’ 35mm celluloid source than the HD Blu-ray gives you. Plus there’s usually a more filmic, gritty feel to the image that makes it feel both more connected to its celluloid origins, and more in keeping with the time it was made. There’s often more texture and minutiae in skin and clothing too, and a generally more lived in and solid feel to the film’s unforgettable range of locations and sets.
The film typically runs with a fairly high average data rate of between 50 and 70Mbps, but can track much higher - right up to 100Mbps - when necessary.
The restoration goes a bit heavy on the grain at times, though, pushing it beyond the point where it feels like a completely natural by-product of the 35mm source. Yet at other times scenes look as if they’ve had the grain smoothed away. 
This inconsistency extends to the picture’s sharpness and detail, too. For while some sequences look spectacularly crisp and detailed, as noted previously, others - particularly exterior shots with lots of depth to them - can look rather soft. Especially around their edges.
Sometimes this appears to be an artefact of the anamorphic lenses De Palma used. But it’s an unevenness you scarcely notice at all while watching the HD Blu-ray. There’s also occasionally a separate issue, again exclusive to the 4K version of the film, where red and blue seep from the edges of objects in the periphery of the frame. Check out, in particular, the shot across the immigration ‘camp’ at the start of chapter 2, and look at how the shirts of the people at the edges of the frame seem to ‘bleed’ color from their edges.
In fact, I’m pretty ambivalent about the 4K Blu-ray’s use of color generally. It’s certainly been ‘ramped up’ versus the HD, SDR Blu-ray, but the results aren’t always a success. Skin tones, in particular, have a tendency to look too orangey, too red or two brown, depending on the light levels in any given scene. Some parts of faces ‘glow’ a little too, giving them a distractingly patchy feel at times. The effect reminds me of the orangey skin tones in the Waterworld 4K Blu-ray at times - and that’s not a good thing.
The 4K Blu-ray’s wider color range is more effective in other areas. For instance, it helps to build more period presence into the classic ostentatious 1980s locations and neon lighting. It’s just a shame that it feels at times as if the color’s just been dialled up on a rather uniform basis, without paying enough attention to the specific needs of different elements of each shot.
The use of HDR is fairly limited - according to the metadata reader on my Panasonic UB820 4K Blu-ray player, the maximum frame average brightness level is just 155 nits (though somewhere in there is a peak light level of 1000 nits).
This isn’t necessarily a bad thing. Pushing average brightness levels higher may have made the issues with the image - especially the awkward skin tones - worse. Instead the extra punch HDR can provide is mostly saved, appropriately, for artificial light sources, such as the neon sign and interior lighting of the food shack where Tony starts his life of gainful employment on US soil.
It’s a shame - especially in light of the sometimes odd looking color work - that Universal hasn’t provided a Dolby Vision or HDR10+ master of the film. It’s HDR10 only.

        Sound quality
      
Universal has put together a new DTS:X mix for the 4K release of its gangster classic (the Blu-ray has a DTS HD 7.1 mix). This DTS:X track is inevitably limited in what it can do given the film’s 4-track stereo origins - but it’s not bad.
The score, in particular, is surprisingly aggressively and effectively mixed for your surround system, and doesn’t sound nearly as thin or hissy as you might expect. Dialogue, too, is mostly convincing, sounding beautifully clear and surprisingly well contextualized. Though to keep the disc’s inconsistent theme going, there are one or two sequences where the dialogue seems slightly out of sync with the onscreen lip movements. 
There are regular efforts to open the soundstage up with subtle ambient effects that at times wrap right around you in a surprisingly effective way. Even though you only occasionally (such as during the film’s climactic shootout) get that sense of a three-dimensional, object-filled audio space that’s associated with good modern DTS:X mixes. 
One last thing to add is that while Universal has managed to inject quite a bit of extra dynamic range into the synth score, there’s seldom much bass to speak of. Except for when Tony gets out his little friend, anyway... 

        Extra features
      
The only new feature provided with this 35th Anniversary Scarface release is a 27-minute reunion where Pacino, Michelle Pfeiffer, De Palma, and Steven Bauer get back together to remember the film in front of a theater audience at the Tribeca Film Festival (this is the only feature provided on the 4K Blu-ray disc). Some of the questions in this reunion footage are a bit lame to be honest, and some of the replies could have done with a bit more editing.
The features found on the accompanying Blu-ray disc include the new reunion again, and a collection of extras we’ve seen before with previous releases. These kick off with a great 40-minute retrospective documentary, The Scarface Phenomenon, looking at the film’s contemporary impact and long-lasting legacy. 
Other documentaries after that comprise: a good 12-minute look at the real world that gave birth to Tony Montana; an interesting 10-minute featurette considering this Scarface alongside the Howard Hawks original; a fascinating 15-minute featurette on the film’s unforgettable cast; and an unmissable half hour feature on the making of the film, taking in everything from the locations to the direction, script, stunt work and cinematography.
Wrapping things up are 22 minutes worth of excellent deleted scenes, a short but sweet clip giving you a taste of how the film was recut and dubbed for its TV debut, and a rather long-winded look at the making of the Scarface video game. Which, um, came out in 2006.

        Verdict
      
There are things to like about the 4K release of Scarface. The detail in the picture is sometimes good (though sharpness is inconsistent), and the DTS:X mix works surprisingly well. Overall, though, this is one of those rare times where I think I’d rather stick with the HD Blu-ray.
–
If you enjoyed this article, you might also like these:
