
# LG V20 Android 9 update rolling out in Korea with LG G8 Android 10 update planned for this year

Published at: **2019-11-01T03:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/lg-v20-android-9-update-rolling-out-korea-lg-g8-android-10-update-planned/)

Just a couple of weeks ago, Korean smartphone manufacturer LG launched an Android 10 preview for its flagship LG G8 ThinQ. As part of the preview, the company shipped Android 10 exclusive features to the device, along with a couple of its own UI changes. However, LG’s flagships from just a couple of years ago don’t get the same treatment. The LG V20, which was considered the last true V series device from the company thanks to its secondary display, has been way behind on software updates. The device launched with Android 7 Nougat out of the box and it received the Android 8 Oreo stable build back in September last year. Now, over a year after its initial rollout, LG is offering an Android 9 Pie update for the device.
As per a recent post from the company, the Android 9 Pie update for the LG V20 is now rolling out in Korea. Here’s the changelog for the latest stable update for the V20:
Along with the Android 9 Pie update for the LG V20, the company has also confirmed that it will be rolling out the Android 10 update for the LG G8 ThinQ later this year. While there still isn’t a fixed timeline, we expect the update to roll out sometime in the following weeks. If you wish to take part in the Android 10 beta program for the G8 ThinQ, you can register from within the Quick Help app on your device. Following your registration, you should receive the Android 10 beta OTA update on your phone. As of now, the company has released no information on the global release for the Android 9 update for the LG V20 or the Android 10 update for the LG G8.

        Source: LG (1,2)
      
