
# Ole Gunnar Solskjaer issues update on Man Utd's January transfer plans

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:08:21+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/ole-gunnar-solskjaer-issues-update-20826610)

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer admits Manchester United's transfer business could be limited in January.
The Red Devils are looking to strengthen their struggling squad after a miserable start to the campaign.
Attacking reinforcements are on the agenda as well as an extra midfielder after struggling for goals so far this campaign.
But Solskjaer says they are aware of the difficulties of doing business in January as he hinted they could wait until the summer to do the bulk of their business.
After signing youngsters Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Daniel James in the summer, as well as centre-back Harry Maguire, Solskjaer confirmed long-term additions are again on the agenda as he continues his rebuild.
Asked about their transfer plans ahead of their Europa League clash with Partizan Belgrade, Solskjaer told reporters: "The priority now is to get the players fit and get to the next round [of the Europa League ].
"We always look at the long term with transfers, it might be none, might be one, might be two in January.
"It's always the summer... you can’t really do too many big deals in January."
United can guarantee a place in the last 32 of the Europa League with a win on Thursday.
And Solskjaer says the emergence of several young players such as Mason Greenwood and Brandon Williams has been the major positive from the European competition so far.
Solskjaer added: "We’ve seen some young players getting a chance and doing well.
"Mason's [Greenwood] given us a winner, Brandon [Williams] was fantastic in Belgrade, Jimmy [Garner] came through that game really well. We have given other players a chance to play which is important in the long run.
"For me, it’s been good to give the young kids a chance. Good to see young players play games and we’ve kept three clean sheets and that’s impressive."
