
# 76-Year-Old Homeowner Who Shot Suspect: 'He Had the Gun in My Face'

Published at: **2019-11-07T02:39:34+00:00**

Author: **AWR Hawkins**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/06/76-year-old-homeowner-who-shot-suspect-he-had-the-gun-in-my-face/)

WKBW reports that 36-year-old Charles Cooper allegedly “forced his way into a home” around 9 p.m. on Tuesday night. The 76-year-old homeowner claimed Cooper pointed a gun in his face while making his entry.
Cooper was wearing a ski mask, reports say.
Cooper allegedly ordered the homeowner and his wife to the back of the home. The homeowner went first because he had a shotgun he believed he could retrieve once he got back there.
The homeowner said, “I hurried up and went down, he didn’t follow me right away. I backed up against the wall, reached up and got the shotgun. I put it behind me. He couldn’t see it. He turned around, dropped his money and he reached down and I shot from the hip. He went down.”
13 WHAM reports that Cooper was airlifted to a hospital and charges against him are pending upon his release.

        AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.
      
