
# Mi Note 10 Penta-camera setup detailed in a fresh render - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:56:14+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/01/mi-note-10-penta-camera-detailed-in-a-fresh-render/)

Mi Note 10 Penta-camera setup detailed in a fresh render4 (80%) 4 votes
Xiaomi will be unveiling the Xiaomi Mi Note 10 at a launch event in about two weeks from today. The device, as well as the Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro,  have been subjects of several leaks and rumors for quite some time now – and that is for a good reason. They both share the same Penta-camera setup on the flip side.
Both devices are also widely rumored to be the same device destined for different markets, though we are yet to get official confirmation to that effect. Ahead of its unveiling, Xiaomi has released a fresh render that reveals the entire backside of the Mi Note 10. Notably, the render’s main focus is on the Penta rear camera.
The Xiaomi Mi Note10 has the same design as the CC9 Pro, complete with the same Penta-cameras. The render released hours ago reveals the device has a 108MP primary camera coupled with a 5MP 5x telephoto, 12MP portrait, 20MP ultrawide angle, and 2MP macro units. These cameras will be accompanied by two dual-LED flash modules placed on their right side. The 5 MP telephoto lens supports up to 50 times zoom. Notably, it has no visible fingerprint scanner, and that means it will likely be embedded under the display.
Other details are still missing, but given that the Mi Note 10 is  the global variant of the CC9 Pro, we assume it will get a 32MP selfie snapper. And as earlier revealed by TENAA, the Xiaomi Mi Note10 / CC9 Pro has a  6.47″ FHD+ OLED display with a UD fingerprint reader, and a 2.2GHz octa-core processor which is likely part of the Snapdragon 730G chipset. Reports about a Xiaomi Mi Note 10 Pro are also making the rounds. The device is said to feature the flagship Snapdragon 855 SoC, a 90Hz screen, and UFS 3.0 storage. The Chinese firm has also confirmed the CC9 Pro will feature a 5,260 mAh battery with 30W fast charge support.
Apparently, more revealing teasers will keep coming in.
