
# Michael Owen makes Vitoria vs Arsenal prediction ahead of Europa League clash

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:10:18+00:00**

Author: **Jacob Murtagh, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jacob-murtagh/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/michael-owen-makes-vitoria-vs-20822038)

Arsenal travel to Portugal on Wednesday hoping to continue their perfect start to their Europa League campaign.
The Gunners are top of Group F after taking maximum points from their first three games.
However, Unai Emery's men had to come from behind to beat rock-bottom Vitoria at the Emirates last time out as Nicolas Pepe bagged a stoppage-time winner.
However, Michael Owen expects it to be more straightforward this time around i the reverse fixture.
He said: "Two late Nicolas Pepe free kicks kept the points in London in the reverse fixture two weeks ago and Arsenal are taken to maintain their perfect record in the group stages out in Portugal.
"Vitoria are unbeaten in their three games against English opposition on home soil, while the Gunners have only won one of their six previous visits to Portugal, but I still feel Unai Emery’s side will take all three points and confirm their place in the last 32 of a competition they reached the final of last season."
Meanwhile, Emery has confirmed Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang as Arsenal's new captain after the head coach stripped Granit Xhaka of the armband following his recent outburst against supporters.
Xhaka told fans to "f**k off" as he was jeered following his substitution in a 2-2 draw against Crystal Palace - also removing his shirt and cupping his ears.
The 27-year-old has since issued an apology of sorts, explaining that ongoing social media abuse aimed at his family also led to his furious reaction.
In the immediate aftermath of the incident, Arsenal said they would offer counselling and other support mechanisms as Emery said Xhaka was "devastated, sad and very down".
The Switzerland international has since sat out the following two draws against Liverpool and Wolves and has not travelled for the Europa League clash against Vitoria on Wednesday afternoon.
And it was here in Guimaraes, talking at his pre-match press conference, where Emery revealed he had taken the decision to relieve Xhaka of the captain's armband.
"He is not today here, but also I think we need time with him and first protect him also to be calm and training with us every day," he replied when asked about Xhaka's continued absence from the team.
"But I was speaking with him this morning and also I decided he is not one of the captains in our group. I decided that and I told him this morning.
"He accepted my decision. And also I told the other captains the decision.
"We need to carry on and focus for tomorrow's match and next Saturday's match. I needed to make a decision and now it is closed."
