
# Sonny Bill Williams mega-million dollar code move could see him switch allegiance at World Cup

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:53:02+00:00**

Author: **Alex McLeod**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/sonny-bill-williams-mega-million-dollar-code-move-could-see-him-switch-allegiance-at-world-cup)

Sonny Bill Williams’ rumoured cross-code move from rugby union to Canadian-based English Super League outfit the Toronto Wolfpack could bring with it a switch of allegiance at the international level of the 13-man game.
According to a report from the Sydney Morning Herald released on Saturday, Williams is expected to accept a lucrative two-year contract with the Wolfpack, reportedly worth just under NZ$10 million, by the end of this week.
International Rugby League officials are hopeful that the move will benefit the game worldwide, especially with the Rugby League World Cup set to be held in England in 2021.
IRL chief executive Nigel Wood recalls the impact Williams had at the 2013 World Cup, where the 34-year-old was named player of the tournament after helping steer the Kiwis to the final.
“Sonny Bill was one of the greatest attractions at the 2013 World Cup, it was memorable for me when New Zealand played Samoa at Warrington and he slipped over the dead-ball line without getting the ball down, which brought the game alive,” Wood said to the SMH.

        Continue reading below…
      

        Click here to see the video
      
“He’s a quality athlete and if athletes like him are playing rugby league that is the best thing that can happen.”
Whether Williams would commit himself to the Kiwis at the next World Cup, which would probably act as his professional sporting swansong, has come under scrutiny, however.
Prior to playing his final game for the All Blacks during New Zealand’s 40-17 victory over Wales in the Rugby World Cup bronze medal match in Tokyo on Friday, Williams spoke of his hopes of seeing more Pacific Islanders or Maori included within the national coaching ranks.
The two-time NRL champion is eligible to play for either the Kiwis or Samoa upon his impending arrival back to rugby league, but his comments in Japan may be indicative of where his international future in the sport could lie.
