
# The Sun: A Guide to the Life-Giving Magnet in the Sky

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Leman**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/sun-guide-life-giving-magnet-140700022.html)


        From Popular Mechanics
      
4.5 billion years ago, in the Orion Spur of the Milky Way galaxy, a swirling cloud of gas and dust collapsed under the weight of its own gravity. This so-called solar nebula spun faster and faster, and⁠—as it eventually flattened out⁠—most of that material drew toward the center, giving birth to our home star, the sun.
The sun is the source of life as we know it. Without its light, energy and heat, we could not survive.
Now a yellow dwarf, the sun is currently halfway through its lifespan. It makes up roughly 99.8 percent of the mass of the entire solar system. Because of this mass, the sun has a strong gravitational pull on everything in the solar system. Without the sun, the planets, dwarf planets, asteroids, and comets in the solar system would just slide off into space.
At its equator, the sun rotates approximately every 27 days. But at its poles, it rotates roughly every 36 days. Sounds strange, right? Well, the sun isn’t made of solid matter like Earth is, so that means that different parts of the star rotate at different times.
Earth sits approximately 93 million miles away from the sun, which has a radius of 432,168.6 miles, according to NASA. If the sun were the same height as the average door frame, Earth would be the size of a Nickel, according to NASA.
The atomic weight of the sun is composed of 92.1 percent hydrogen and 7.8 percent helium, with traces of carbon and nitrogen. (By mass, it's more like 70.6 percent hydrogen and 27.4 percent helium. It has six layers: Its core, the innermost layer, reaches temperatures of up to 27 million degrees. This is where the sun gets all of its energy. Within the core, hydrogen atoms join together in a thermonuclear reaction to create helium, according to NASA.
This energy radiates out through its layers and into the solar system as energy, radiation and solar wind. Radiation emitted from the sun’s core bounces around in the radiative zone before eventually reaching the top of convective zone, a bubbling layer of piping hot plasma, 170,000 years later.
Temperatures at the sun's 300-mile-thick surface are much cooler, about 10,000 degrees Fahrenheit. The sun's innermost surface layer, the photosphere, is the deepest layer that we can observe. The chromosphere and corona make up the sun's the solar atmosphere.
Those who view the sun through a special lens can often see dark spots on its surface. These dueling sunspots⁠—they often occur in pairs—are areas of particularly strong magnetic activity.
The sun has a very strong magnetic field. The sun’s core radiates plasma, or electrically charged particles and gases, out toward its poles, according to National Geographic. In this way, the sun sort of acts like a giant bar magnet.
The range of its magnetic field, called the Heliosphere, encompasses the entire solar system and protects everything in it from dangerous cosmic radiation. All corners of the solar system are touched by solar winds carrying these electrically charged particles.
The strength of the sun’s activity hangs on an 11 year cycle. Every 11 years, the sun’s polarity flips, sending the corona, chromosphere and photosphere into a period of heightened activity, called the solar maximum. When this happens, the number and intensity of sunspots, solar flares and coronal mass ejections increases. During these solar events, escaped particles shoot out across the solar system and hit orbiting planets.
On Earth and several other planets, these particles interact with the atmosphere. It can take up to 40 hours for these winds to reach earth, according to Space.com. Once these solar flares reach Earth, they can have dramatic impacts.
For example, they can create a brilliant display known as the Aurora Borealis. But these solar events can also wreak havoc on Earth’s communication systems, erode pipelines, impact the power grid and even set off land mines. Scientists recently built a mini sun, of sorts, to try to better understand these effects.
Well, a lot. The sun’s energy provides us with light and heat. Without the sun, there would be no life on Earth. Plants use it to create their energy and provide us with the oxygen we need to breath. Its mere presence keeps our planet warm enough to live on.
Our seasons depend on the sun, and its shifts to Earth's orbit around the sun are responsible for the ebb and flow of ice ages throughout history. But scientific evidence shows that these short-term changes aren't a factor in our current, rapidly changing climate, according to NASA. The changes we're seeing on Earth are happening far too quickly to be caused by the sun.
We can harness the sun’s light to create energy using solar panels that we use to power our communities. In recent years, scientists and engineers have worked to make solar technology more efficient and accessible.
There's still so much left to discover about our solar system's massive star. We're uncovering its secrets each day thanks to spacecraft like NASA's Parker Solar Probe, which is specially designed to withstand the sun's powerful heat. New missions are in the works to inch even closer.
Scientists project that in about 3.5 million years, the sun will become 40 percent brighter than it is today and expand to swallow Mercury, Venus, and Earth. The sun will also not shine forever. The hydrogen that fuels the sun’s energy is a finite resource. Eventually, that hydrogen will burn out and the inert helium within the core will become unstable.
Contrary to the musings of Soundgarden, there is currently no evidence to suggest that the sun will turn into a black hole (because it doesn't have enough mass).
Instead, the sun will collapse in on itself and turn into a white dwarf star. Luckily, researchers say, we have about 6.5 million years before that happens. Let’s enjoy it while it lasts.

        You Might Also Like
      
