
# Microsoft Solves One Of Japan’s Big Problems

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Panos Mourdoukoutas**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/panosmourdoukoutas/2019/11/05/microsoft-solves-one-of-japans-big-problems/)

Microsoft has taught Japanese workers how to produce more by working less, solving one of the country’s big problems: overworking and under-accomplishing. That’s according to a CNN report, which features the results of a trial program the company introduced for its Japanese employees last summer.
Once Japan was the world’s second largest economy, on track to replace the US in world leadership. That was back in the 1980s, when the Japanese economy was growing at a fire pace. 
It never happened. By the early 1990s, Japan’s economy began cooling off, embarking on a prolonged stagnation that has lasted to this day.
There are many reasons for that. Like the trade war with the US, competition from China, and an aging labor force, as discussed in a previous piece here.
But there’s one more important factor: Japanese workers work hard, but accomplish little, as evidenced by international data that compares work hours and productivity.
In some cases, long working hours have been responsible for Karoshi—"death by work.”
Microsoft has tried to solve this problem for its Japanese labor force with the"Work Life Choice Challenge.” Launched last August, the program shut company offices on Friday, giving employees one day off every week.
Meanwhile, managers advised employees to cut down on the time they spend in meetings to no longer than 30 minutes. Employees were also encouraged to cut down on meetings altogether by using an online messaging app. 
Long meetings have been an important part of the Japanese way of doing business. They take place both at work and off work in kanpai, drinking sessions, as a traditional means to improve communication and strengthen organization culture. 
The trouble is these meetings nurture a culture of work-alcoholism, while taking time away from family and leisure activities. 
Microsoft isn’t the first company to experiment with different policies that encourage people to work less. Japanese companies and even Japanese universities and government agencies have programs that pay employees to take vacations. But none of these polices have gone as far to shut offices altogether, the way Microsoft has, so employees do not have the option to be at work.
 Now, the results of Microsoft’s experiment are in. And they reveal a surge in labor productivity. Microsoft’s sales per employee rose by almost 40% over the same period the previous year. 
Employees accomplished more by working less, that is. 
Disclosure: I own shares of MSFT
