
# Strictly's Neil Jones missed second week in a row and replaced by Kevin Clifton

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:02:29+00:00**

Author: **Kyle O&#39;Sullivan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/kyle-osullivan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/strictlys-neil-jones-missed-second-20790908)

Alex Scott will be dancing with Kevin Clifton again this weekend as Neil Jones misses his second week of Strictly Come Dancing in a row.
Professional dancer Neil was forced to pull out of last Saturday's show after a last-minute injury to his calf muscle during rehearsals.
Former footballer Alex was forced to teach her entire street commercial routine to stand-in partner Kevin in just 45 minutes - and he's stepping in again for her American Smooth routine.
Speaking on tonight's It Takes Two, gutted Neil said: "No, I won't be dancing tomorrow. I've tried but it's just not ready yet. I'll be fine if I rest this weekend."
Hugging Alex, he said: "You nail the dance, go through, then I'll be ready for you on Monday morning."
Kevin came into training late on Wednesday evening when Neil realised he was not ready to dance.
Alex confessed: "It's been a strange week to be honest. Going back to ballroom I'm nervous anyway. I'm use to him [Neil]. It's really different dancing with someone else."
Speaking to Gethin Jones from the ballroom, Kevin said: "I'm obviously gutted for Neil. I’m hoping he’s on the mend. It looks like he's getting better and better. Fingers crossed I can get Alex through and she'll be back with him.
"Alex has been amazing. She’s got a brilliant mentality. Refuses to complain. Most people would say it's too much pressure. She’s like 'I'm on Strictly Come Dancing and get to learn from two of the pros. She’s been fantastic in training."
Neil described the moment where he injured his calf during their Ghostbusters themed dance.
He said: "Normally the gun was coming out. I thought the gun came out and hit me on the back of the leg. It wasn't the gun, it was just the muscle. I didn't hear a noise."
Giving her take, Alex said "We were about to go into the lift and it was the look of terror. I can't."
Neil added: " I’ve ripped muscles before and things like that. It wasn’t painful. It was just a weird feeling."
But Alex admitted she was not in a position to "moan" as Paralympian Will Bayley won't get to dance again after being injured.
Neil added: "It is hard because I want to be there with Alex and dance with her. It's such a great dance. As I'm watching I'm smiling.
"I’m just glad she gets to dance and has Kevin with her. She’s in good hands.
James Jordan voiced his disappointment that Kevin was drafted in to replace the injured Neil.
Speaking at Monday night's Pride of Britain awards, the former Strictly pro said he thinks that Gorka should have got the call up.
James told Mirror Online: "I've got nothing against Kevin. But Kevin was on the show. He had his celebrity partner.
"Gorka hadn't. He was on the show last year. It wasn't his choice. It would have been a nice nod to Gorka for a week.
"Kevin's been there and done it. For Gorka, it would have been a nice thing."
During last weekend's show, Kevin joked that he had to "get in the final one way or another" after replacing Neil.
When asked about stepping in at the last-minute, Kevin said: "I've got to get in the final one way or another, ain't I."
The rest of the celebs and pro dancers were left in hysterics, while presenter Claudia Winkleman had her head in her hands laughing.
Pointing out the night was not about him, he added: "This is not about me, it's about Alex. She’s been so amazing. For a couple of hours she’s been guiding me through the routine.
"This is a real test for her. I’m just going to do my best for her and for Neil."
Alex and Kevin set the dance floor alight and received high praise from the judges for their street commercial routine.
Praising Alex after the performance, Kevin said: "Having to teach me to do the dance in 45 minutes.
"Everyone can probably see I got a few things wrong in that and Alex kept the whole thing going on her own."
The pair received a high score of 34 from the judges, who praised Alex for dealing with adversity, and noticed her shouting directions to Kevin.
Speaking to Claudia Winkleman, Alex said: "My partner, Neil, I feel bad. We did what we did. The show must go on. You can take it one way or the other. Thank you to Kev."
Kevin admitted: "I literally went out and blanked in the middle of the routine and got it all wrong. You carried me through, Alex."

        *It Takes Two airs weekdays on BBC Two at 6.30pm
      
