
# Stellenbosch Humbled By Resurgent AmaZulu

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/absa-premiership-report-amazulu-v-stellenbosch-06-november-2019/666912)


        Absa Premiership
      
Result: AmaZulu 2-0 Stellenbosch FC
Date: 06 November 2019
Venue: Princess Magogo Stadium
AmaZulu continued their revival under coach Jozef Vukusic with a 2-0 victory over Stellenbosch FC in the Absa Premiership clash on Wednesday evening.
Usuthu made only one change from their win over Baroka, with Andre De Jong taking the place of Butholezwe Ncube, while Stellies also had only one change from their narrow win over Orlando Pirates, with Jarrod Moroole replacing Tshireletso Motsogi.
The hosts had a bright start after they were awarded a penalty in the 14th minute, which allowed Bonginkosi Ntuli to slot home the opener from 12-yards out.
Jozef Vukusic's charges had the momentum after that and they nearly bagged a second goal in the 22nd minute with Samuel Darpoh's thumping strike from outside the box that sailed just wide of the mark.
Siyethemba Sithebe also came close to giving Usuthu a two-goal cushion four minutes before the break after working his way into the box but his shot was brilliantly saved by goalkeeper Boy De Jong.
Stellies were under pressure early in the second stanza and they made a tactical change with 20 minutes remaining after bringing on striker Ryan Moon in place of defender Sibusiso Mthethwa.
AmaZulu had a great chance to make to extend their lead with 12 minutes remaining after Ntuli delivered towards the box from the right wing but Lehlohonolo Majoro's strike was parried away by De Jong.
Ntuli finally sealed the three points for Usuthu in the last minute with a cool finish from close range to complete his rbace as Vukusic's troops moved up to 12th on the log with 11 points.
 
