
# Ariana Grande snubbed at MTV European Music Awards

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:20:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/magazine/entertainment/2019/11/03/news/ariana-grande-snubbed-at-mtv-european-music-awards-1755392/)

Ariana Grande has been snubbed at the MTV Europe Music Awards after failing to win a single prize, despite being nominated in seven categories.
The Grammy award-winning US pop star, who did not attend the event, was among the big losers on the night, alongside Lil Nas X who was nominated in six categories but also went home empty handed.
Billie Eilish, however, took home two gongs, for best song and best newcomer, blowing her fans a kiss in a brief pre-recorded video message.
K-pop superstars BTS, who were not at the event, also scored a double win for best live and biggest fans.
The night was also marked by a performance from NCT 127.
The K-pop boy band became the first from the Korean genre to appear at the annual event, this year held at the FIBES Conference and Exhibition Centre in Seville, Spain.
Taylor Swift, hot from the release of her seventh album Lover, and Halsey were also handed two awards.
The star-studded event featured an impressive roster of performances from the likes of Halsey, Mabel and Spanish singer Rosalia.
The event is returning to Spain for a fourth time after visiting Barcelona in 2002, Madrid in 2010 and Bilbao in 2018.
Dua Lipa kicked off the night with a high-intensity performance of her new single Don’t Start Now.
