
# The Edge launches Centurion Club Corporate Awards

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Cameron Chong and Joyce Goh**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/edge-launches-centurion-club-corporate-awards)

TO celebrate merit in Corporate Malaysia, The Edge Media Group has launched The Edge-Centurion Club Corporate Awards to recognise the country’s best-performing small and medium enterprises and their CEOs.
To be a member of the elite The Edge-Centurion Club, a company, among other criteria, must be listed on Bursa Malaysia as at March 31 of the current calendar year, should not be suspended under the stock exchange’s watchlist and must not be delisted prior to the date of the Awards. The company must also have a market capitalisation of RM100 million to below RM1 billion.
“It is about time we recognise these companies — they have showcased impressive performances. However, because their market capitalisation is below RM1 billion, some of them fall under the radar. It is time to give them the public attention that they deserve,” says The Edge Media Group publisher and group CEO Datuk Ho Kay Tat. “Hopefully, this exercise will unearth and reveal the value of these companies to all.”
This is the second awards under The Edge that celebrate Corporate Malaysia. The first — The Edge Billion Ringgit Club — celebrates companies with a market capitalisation of at least RM1 billion. The BRC is into its 10th year this year.
Partners of The Edge-Centurion Club Corporate Awards are property developer Matrix Concepts Holdings Bhd and Swiss watch brand Hublot, which is represented by The Hour Glass Sdn Bhd in Malaysia.
“We think it is fitting and timely to have a new platform to pay tribute to the performing companies with a market capitalisation of RM100 million to below RM1 billion. I would like to express my utmost gratitude to Hublot and Matrix Concepts for their contribution to The Edge-Centurion Club Corporate Awards. This event will not be what it is without their partnership,” says Ho.
The Hour Glass Malaysia general manager S K Teh says, “We hope that our contribution will be able to help the Malaysian economy by discovering the hidden gems within the local market. These sectors tend to be overlooked by investors, so we see this as an opportunity for these companies to be recognised.
“We view Hublot as a gateway to link an international brand to locals. Hence, we feel very privileged as we are able to provide opportunities to local talents by connecting local companies to an international brand through the awards.”
Hublot believes in the spirit of pioneering, which is also one of the driving force of its global initiatives such as the collaboration it has with Ferrari that promotes continual improvement and perfectionism.
Amy Chia, deputy general manager of The Hour Glass Malaysia, adds, “As a brand, Hublot strives to be first, unique and different. The opportunity to participate in this inaugural event is very exciting. We hope to link the success of these companies to a timepiece to mark their moment of glory.”
Matrix Concepts group managing director Ho Kong Soon says, “This is a platform for companies to build brand awareness. The platform will fuel collaboration between companies while strategic alliances can be formed between them and future traders and investors.
“Many of these companies are hidden gems. The recognition will enable them to perform better by increasing competition in the market as a driving force to improve performance.”
The Edge-Centurion Club Corporate Awards is set to be a night of glitz and glamour with Finance Minister Lim Guan Eng as the guest of honour. Over 400 member companies will be involved in the event on Nov 12.
There will be three award categories for companies in 12 sectors — the Highest Returns to Shareholders Over 3 Years, the Highest Growth in Profit After Tax Over 3 Years and the Highest Return on Equity Over 3 Years. There will also be a Company of the Year award.
“Unlike the BRC that celebrates companies with a market capitalisation of at least RM1 billion, The Edge-Centurion Club aims to discover and shine the spotlight on smaller companies that match these multibillion-dollar conglomerates in terms of their performance,” says Ho.
“Many of these smaller firms are owned and driven by entrepreneurs compared with the companies with more than RM1 billion in market capitalisation, where some are government-linked companies. With the recognition provided to them through The Edge-Centurion Club, The Edge hopes to provide them with the necessary tools to evolve and grow further,” he adds.
The market capitalisation and other financial data used by The Edge to determine companies that qualify for The Edge-Centurion Club and the winners of The Edge-Centurion Club Corporate Awards are provided by Asia Analytica Data Sdn Bhd (formerly known as The Edge Markets Sdn Bhd).
