
# John Lundstram double guides Sheffield United to easy win against Burnley

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:25:00+00:00**

Author: **Louise Taylor**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/02/sheffield-united-burnley-premier-league-match-report)

Chris Wilder describes Sean Dyche as a mentor and guiding light but it seems Burnley’s manager may have been far too generous with his advice to an old friend.
If things were pretty equal between the pair when they met on a summer golfing holiday, the power balance tilted dramatically beneath the unrelenting rain clouds which soaked the city’s streets after they had rolled in from the Pennines.
Yet if it was the greyest of afternoons for Burnley, Wilder’s already shiny reputation as one of the Premier League’s brightest emerging tactical minds received a further burnishing as his Sheffield United players demonstrated why they currently rank among the division’s most interesting and entertaining teams.
Enda Stevens’s eye-catching interpretation of the left wing-back role during these South Yorkshire newcomers’ rise to sixth place is a case in point. Not content with playing slick one-twos with Jack O’Connell as the latter regularly burst past him in his capacity as an overlapping centre-half, Stevens created John Lundstram’s first goal with a long pass Glenn Hoddle would have treasured.
That perfectly weighted through ball down the left was met by David McGoldrick before Lys Mousset deftly touched his cut-back into the highly impressive Lundstram’s on-rushing path. All that remained was for the unmarked scorer to place his shot low into the bottom corner.
Fast, fluent and refreshingly direct, that goal was emblematic of United’s play as Burnley were persistently second guessed and thoroughly outmanoeuvred. All sharp movement, varied passing range and marauding centre-halves, the Blades were slicing their guests to ribbons with ruthlessly efficiency.
“It was a good day for us, we kept our shape out of possession well,” said Wilder with typical understatement. “It’s an accumulation of a few years’ work.” The visitors had still to direct a single effort on target when Lundstram delighted in demonstrating how it was done by scoring his second goal at the end of an attacking foray that proved very nearly a carbon copy of the opener’s preamble.
Once again Stevens really got things going and although Mousset could not quite control his fine, low, inch-perfect cross curved in from the left, he nudged it intelligently in the direction of Lundstram. As deja vu descended on Bramall Lane Dyche’s defence again left the midfielder to make another late dash into the box and, demonstrating his finishing prowess, shoot, first-time and right footed, beyond Nick Pope.
Goal number three was slightly different, even if Mousset again provided the vital prompt. In capitalising on James Tarkowski’s concentration lapse, he left the defender looking as bewildered as a pickpocketed tourist. Fleck had no hesitation about accepting his invitation – delivered in the form of an exquisite reverse pass – to punish Pope with his left foot.
The £10m Wilder spent in transferring Mousset from Bournemouth during the summer was a fairly hefty investment for a club with recent memory of life in League One but appears a smart buy. The Frenchman – an exotic rarity in a predominately Anglo-Irish squad – rightly received a standing ovation when he was replaced by Billy Sharp.
Dusk had descended and although Burnley were finally restricting their hosts to half chances, Dean Henderson’s goal remained largely unthreatened. “They had more aggression, energy and edge than us,” said Dyche, who disagreed with the VAR-approved decision not to award Burnley a penalty when Ben Mee’s header hit Stevens’s arm. “They were excellent, they forced us into mistakes and were miles better but we were poor. The first half was unacceptable. Our brains weren’t working.”
