
# If stuck in a lift with Alia Bhatt, Deepika Padukone and Katrina Kaif? Kareena Kapoor Khan has a hilarious response to this!

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:09:13+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/if-stuck-in-a-lift-with-alia-bhatt-deepika-padukone-and-katrina-kaif-kareena-kapoor-khan-has-a-hilarious-response-to-this/articleshow/71916526.cms)

Kareena Kapoor Khan and cousin Ranbir Kapoor share a close bond. The actress has never shied away from talking about Ranbir’s past and present girlfriends openly when asked. Bebo was recently asked something about Ranbir’s girlfriends and Kareena’s response is sure to leave you in splits. The actress, who is currently in Aushtralia attending an event, was asked whatwould she do if she gets stuck in an elevator with Alia Bhatt, Deepika Padukone and Katrina Kaif. To which, Bebo replied by saying that she would make sure that Ranbir is not in the lift. And then immediately changing her mind, Kareena added or maybe she would make sure he is in the lift.
Interestingly, Bebo was asked a similar question on Karan Johar’s chat show when she was a guest with Sonam Kapoor. The actress was pregnant with Taimur at the time. She was then asked what would she do if she gets stuck in the lift with Deepika Padukone and Katrina Kaif. She had then answered saying that she will kill herself and that she does not want to be in that e levator, especially when she was pregnant.
Kareena has spoked good things about Katrina when she was with Ranbir. She also shares quite a bond with Alia Bhatt. Recently, Kareena had said in an event that she would be the happiest if Alia became her sister-in-law.
Meanwhile, on the work front, Kareena has a line-up of projects which include, Karan Johar’s ‘Takht’, Irrfan Khan starrer, ‘Angrezi Medium’, and Akshay Kumar starrer ‘Good Newwz’.
