
# This Robot Vacuum Is Nearly Half Off Today

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:24:28+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-bissell-ev675-sale-deal-cheap.html)

The BISSELL EV675 robot vacuum is on sale today, as part of Amazon's Gold Box Deal of the Day, down to just $164.99. That's down from its regular price of $299. Making this a really great time to pick up a robot vacuum.
BISSELL EV675 robot vacuum is a really great robot vacuum to pick up, especially if you don't want to sink in a ton of money into a robot vacuum. As it will do its job – cleaning up – without a whole lot of other bells and whistles. This one also comes from a company that has a lot of experience in making vacuums, so you know this one is going to be good with cleaning up.
It has a triple-action system that is good for cleaning up messes and cleaning up pet hair, both of which are really nice features to have. It has multi-surface cleaning included, allowing you to use it on carpet, laminate and tile, without having to adjust the settings. The BISSELL EV675 robot vacuum is also a pretty slim robot vacuum, making it easier to go under furniture and chairs in your home. That is something that doesn't seem like a big deal, but it really is.
Advertisement
Now, the BISSELL EV675 robot vacuum does not have an app for controlling it. Instead, you'll be using a physical remote. Which, while sounding like something from the 2000s, is not a bad thing. As you're paying a lot less for this one. Just make sure you don't lose the remote control. Additionally, the BISSELL EV675 robot vacuum is going to run for around 100 minutes on a charge, before it heads back to the dock to recharge.
You can pick up the BISSELL EV675 robot vacuum in Amazon's sale today, by clicking here. This is part of its Gold Box Deal, which means this is good today only and will expire at midnight PST tonight.

        BISSELL EV675 robot vacuum - Amazon - $165
      
Advertisement
