
# Couple 'kicked off TUI cruise for having sex too loudly’ on first day of Caribbean trip

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:23:55+00:00**

Author: **Kara O&#39;Neill**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/couple-kicked-tui-cruise-having-20794405)

A couple have been kicked off a TUI cruise just one day into their two-week Caribbean trip for allegedly 'having sex too loudly'.
The pair, who were reported to have left their balcony door open while having intercourse, were ordered by the crew on the ship to disembark in Barbados.
They are now said to be launching legal action against TUI cruises after they were left 'stranded' on the island with their suitcases, according to the Reise Reporter .
The couple, from Germany, said they'd booked the holiday abroad Mein Schiff 5, which set sail on April 1.
While the vessel was anchored off Barbados, Renate F, and her husband, Volker, told Reise they were having very loud "consensual sex" but forgot that their balcony door was open.
Afterwards, Renate said the pair began arguing loudly, but claimed there was no violence and no damage to their accomodation.
 
Later, Volker was in the shower and Renate smoking a cigarette on their balcony when a manager, accompanied by a security guard, came to their room and told them the captain had ordered them to leave the cruise ship.
After disembarking in Barbados, the couple say they were stranded, and were forced to pay thousands to catch a flight back to Paris, where they took a train home to Germany.
The couple are now thought to be suing the holiday company for damages, including compensation for "pain" and reimbursement for travel expenses.
They claim the tour operator and the captain "violated their duty of care".
In a statement to the Resie Reporter, TUI said: "Due to a security related incident, we have made use of our house right and asked the guests to leave the ship.
"This was done to protect the guests themselves and other fellow travellers.
"There has already been correspondence with Mrs F. in which we have set our our view of things.
"Please understand that we do not want to comment on the privacy of our guests in detail."
TUI's terms and conditions state: "If in the opinion of the Carrier's representative, the Passenger's behaviour is disruptive, threatening or abusive or is causing or is likely to cause danger or distress to others, the Carrier may terminate that Passenger's travel arrangements without any liability on the Carrier's part and the Passenger will not be entitled to any refund for unused or missed services or costs incurred resulting from the termination of the travel arrangements."
