
# Clontibret's Vinny Corey heaps praise on John McEntee after Crossmaglen victory

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **BRENDAN CROSSAN**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/gaafootball/2019/11/05/news/clontibret-s-vinny-corey-heaps-praise-on-john-mcentee-after-crossmaglen-victory-1755902/)

CLONTIBRET ace Vinny Corey has heaped praise on manager John McEntee after the Monaghan champions knocked Crossmaglen Rangers out of the Ulster Club series last weekend.
McEntee admitted after Saturday night’s one-point win plotting the downfall of his own club was an emotionally difficult task and that he was glad it was over.
“I suppose we were in a good position that John was over us,” said Corey.
“He knew them so well. He was very professional about it and very respectful because he was playing against his own club. He really zoned in and had all the information. There was no shouting or running ’Cross players down.
“After the game he went straight down the tunnel. He did what he had to do for the team that he is over but he is still a ’Cross man at the end of the day.
“We’ve a lot of respect for John; we’re very mindful that that’s his club. As far as we’re concerned, it was game won but we’re not going to go around shouting about it.”
Clontibret eased into a commanding 0-6 to 0-1 lead against the Armagh champions after 25 minutes and still held a 0-7 to 0-3 interval advantage.
Crossmaglen threw everything at them in the second half but Clontibret held on with a point to spare.
Corey insisted the competitive nature of their own county championship stood to them when their backs were to the wall in that second period on Saturday night.
“We had games like that in the Monaghan championship. I know the Monaghan final [against Scotstown] wasn’t really like that but we went to extra-time in our first championship match [against Carrickmacross] and came through on penalties.
“We beat Ballybay by a point, we beat Latton by two points. So we had to grind out a lot of games. I suppose that confidence was in the team. It was completely different than the county final; the sun was shining, nice hard ground. Against ’Cross, it was just about digging in and grinding it out.”
Corey, who played selflessly in the full-forward role, added: “We felt we played reasonably well in the first half and had a bit of a cushion going in at half-time and then ’Cross upped it in the second half and it looked like they were going to come back in typical ’Cross fashion.
“We got the vital scores in the second half just to pull through. In tight games ’Cross would have a good reputation to come out of them so it gives great confidence to the team that we were the ones that pulled out it.
“It was a dogged performance. We won’t be happy with the second half, of course not. But at the end of the day we did win a game in the Ulster Club, we are through to the next round. If you were told that at the start of the year you’d beat ’Cross in the first round, you would have taken it.”
Meanwhile, Corey, who will make a decision on his inter-county future with Monaghan at the end of Clontibret’s season, believes the GAA has made a mistake by introducing the ‘advanced mark’ rule.
Among a raft of other new rules that were experimented in last season’s National Football League, delegates at Special Congress last month voted to retain the ‘advanced mark’ – where a player can claim a placed ball should they catch a pass that is delivered from outside the ’45-metre line and travels a minimum of 20 metres.
Monaghan were adept at utilising the experimental ‘advanced mark’ in last season’s NFL campaign, particularly against All-Ireland champions Dublin.
Nevertheless, Corey is not a fan of it.
“I probably wouldn’t favour it,” said the veteran.
“A free-taker would. You can just stop and kick it. It’s the same for [Conor McManus] playing the International Rules. He excels at that. But, overall for the game, I’m not sold on it to be honest. There are more stoppages.
“It’s going to be hard for referees to police for a start. It might slow the game down and it might make the game about free-kicks. If a boy catches it, you might just stop and it might stop those intricate goals you get when the man is coming off the shoulder. Those goals might dry up. Who knows?”
