
# GOP Lawmakers Craft Bills to Ban Child Gender Transition Treatment

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:12:19+00:00**

Author: **Penny Starr**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/04/gop-state-lawmakers-craft-bills-to-ban-child-gender-transition-treatment/)

Kentucky State Rep. Savannah Maddox (R) wrote in a recent Facebook post that she “began drafting a bill designed to protect children under the age of 18 from gender reassignment surgery or from receiving drug treatments designed to alter their natal gender.”
“I am a strong advocate for parents’ rights — but it is not the right of a parent to permanently alter a child’s gender or identity, even when based upon certain behaviors or the perceptions of a child’s mind which has not yet had time to fully develop,” Maddox wrote.
As Breitbart News reported, Georgia State Rep. Ginny Ehrhart (R) is not targeting youth whose parents claim they want to change their gender but the medical profession and its role in giving children life-altering, gender-changing treatment. Her legislation would make the practice a felony.
“We’re talking about children that can’t get a tattoo or smoke a cigar or a cigarette in the state of Georgia but can be castrated and get sterilized,” Ehrhart said.
Breitbart News reported on Ehrhart’s legislation and reaction to it:
According to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Ehrhart was motivated to draft a bill after the story broke about a seven-year-old boy in Texas whose mother wanted to “transition” him to be a girl, while his father disagreed with the plan.
A judge last week ruled that the parents, who are divorced, would make joint decisions for the child, including medical treatment.
Ehrhart also said, “There may be some implication for the responsibility of the parent to subject the child to this sort of dangerous medical intervention.”
Meanwhile, in Texas, another Republican is also taking action to protect children.
“Republican Texas Rep. Matt Krause said he would introduce a bill that ‘prohibits the use of puberty blockers in these situations for children under 18’ in the next legislative session,” NBC reported.
And some medical professionals don’t support drugs or surgery for children under 18, according to the NBC report:
But LGBT activists are reporting that these lawmakers are “targeting transgender” children, including a report in the left-wing website The Advocate:
Ehrhart was elected in the 2018 midterm election so she is not on the ballot on Tuesday in Kentucky.
Follow Penny Starr on Twitter.
