
# Third of promised police funds to be kept back for recruitment

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:30:51+00:00**

Author: **Vikram Dodd**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2019/nov/04/third-of-promised-police-funds-to-be-kept-back-for-recruitment)


        £16.3m being retained by Home Office is too high and will go on advertising, says Labour
      
Police forces will not receive one third of the money the government announced it would provide to fund the first wave of new officers, the Guardian has learned.
The Home Office will retain some £16.3m for “recruitment programme costs”, out of £45m announced to fund the first 2,000 officers by April 2020.
The decision was contained in official letters sent to forces last week, informing them how much money they would receive. The Home Office said the £16.3m would be used for advertising and key investments to support the biggest police recruitment drive in decades.
Some in policing believe the amount of money being kept back is very high. Labour accuses the Conservatives of diverting public money away from fighting crime to spend on advertising in order to promote their own policies.
One of the letters seen by the Guardian says: “As you are aware, the chancellor recently announced a new funding pot of £45.1m for 2019-20 to support the early recruitment of additional officers, with the ambition of delivering an additional 2,000 officers by March 2020.”
The letters say “£28.8m of this funding has been awarded for force level recruitment”, and state the amount each force will get, and say “the remaining £16.3m will contribute towards recruitment programme costs”.
The shadow policing minister, Louise Haigh, said: “The public will be surprised that cash promised for cops is being squirrelled away by ministers to spend on promoting the policy, rather than delivering actual officers.
“Just like every other promise the Tories have made on policing, this pledge has unravelled under the slightest scrutiny. After nine years of broken promises and brutal cuts, you simply cannot trust the Tories on law and order.”
The government has promised money to recruit 20,000 additional officers by 2023, with Boris Johnson pledging £750m for the first full year. The recruitment drive essentially replaces those police officers lost when the Conservatives cut the force from 2010 onwards.
A Home Office spokesperson said: “The government has committed an immediate £45m to kickstart the recruitment drive and all of this money will be used to support the police uplift programme. We are also investing £750m of new funding for 2020-21 to enable forces to meet their officer recruitment targets.
“The majority of the £45.1m committed for this year will go direct to police forces, with £16.3m being used to improve training processes, raise awareness of policing vacancies across the country and develop elements of the IT infrastructure to support the uplift in officer numbers – all essential investments to deliver the uplift programme.”
The Home Office letter says the money each of the 43 police forces in England and Wales will receive can be used for them to take out advertising to attract candidates.
David Jamieson, police and crime commissioner for the West Midlands and a Labour politician, said: “The huge slice taken out is just ridiculous, it is just an outrage. The advertising, we are doing that locally anyway.”
The Home Office added: “We are committed to recruiting 20,000 new police officers over the next three years – the biggest police recruitment drive in decades – and meeting the funding requirements for this.
“Up to 6,000 additional officers will be recruited by the end of 2020-21 and shared between the 43 police forces in England and Wales.”
After entering government in 2010 the Conservatives claimed they could cut the cost to the taxpayer of law enforcement while cutting crime. However, that policy has been reversed after a rise in violent crime.
