
# Here's how Diablo 4's shared world works

Published at: **2019-11-02T23:02:47+00:00**

Author: **Tyler Wilde**

Original: [PC Gamer](https://www.pcgamer.com/heres-how-diablo-4s-shared-world-works/)

In my preview of Diablo 4, I said I was concerned that frequently bumping into random other players would interfere with the desolate and desperate mood. While you can solo the game, you can't do so without seeing other players in towns and around the open world.
Diablo 4 lead designer Joe Shely and executive producer/Blizzard co-founder Allen Adham tell me that maintaining the right mood is important to them, too, even if an online world is part of the game's vision. Here are a bunch of details about the workings of that world, difficulty levels, and dungeons that came out of my brief interview with the duo:
We didn't get into specifics about PvP, but apparently there's plenty of time to get those details out there. Even though Diablo 4 is announced for current gen consoles despite new ones coming soon, they say there's still a lot of work to do. I couldn't get any indication of whether that meant one year, two years, or even longer.
I also asked about monetization after launch. Diablo 4 will get expansions. As for microtransactions and passes and that sort of thing, "We won't sell power," said Adham. That's all they have to announce about that right now.
Despite feeling a bit weird about other players popping in and out of my world—even though it does streamline the Diablo 2 experience, I suppose—I had fun trying out Diablo 4. I'll have more from my interview this week.
