
# Star Player Ruled Out For Chiefs Clash

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:38:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/kaizer-chiefs-won-t-be-going-up-against-a-full-strength-chippa-united/666784)

Facing Kaizer Chiefs is going to be tough enough for Chippa United tomorrow night, but there’s also a key suspension for the game to be taken into consideration…

        Read: Chiefs To Assess Billiat Situation?
      
Young Tercious Malepe has been almost ever-present for the Chilli Boys this season after the 22-year-old made the defensive midfield position his own at the club following another loan move away from Orlando Pirates, but he will not be able to force his mother club’s bitter rivals on Wednesday.
Malepe was shown two yellow cards and a red before Chippa were knocked out of the Telkom Knockout over the weekend by Mamelodi Sundowns after a penalty shootout, with his second booking being given for dissent after he kicked the ball away. 
That mistake from the young midfielder means that he will be forced to sit out not only the encounter with the Glamour Boys, but also Chippa’s bottom-of-the-table clash against fellow strugglers, AmaZulu, at the weekend. 
While Chippa’s loss in David Notoane’s gain as the South African youth international was able to team up with the U23s for the Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, his absence will not be enjoyed by his club head coach, Norman Mapeza. 

        Read: Calls To Respect ‘Quality’ Pirates
      
The Chilli Boys are currently languishing at the bottom of the log with just four points from nine games, and go into tomorrow’s game as major underdogs against the table-topping Amakhosi.  

        
          Post Selfie’s On Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now
        
      
