
# Earnings Preview: What To Expect From Under Armour On Monday

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Sarhan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adamsarhan/2019/11/03/earnings-preview-what-to-expect-from-under-armour-on-monday/)

Under Armour, Inc. is scheduled to release earnings before Monday’s open . In 2015, the stock hit a record high of $52.94/share and is currently trading near $21/share. The stock is prone to big moves after reporting earnings and can easily gap up if the numbers are strong. Conversely, if the numbers disappoint, the stock can easily gap down. To help you prepare, here is what the Street is expecting:Earnings Preview:
Under Armour is expected to report earnings of $0.18/share on $1.42 billion in revenue. Meanwhile, the so-called Whisper number is $0.19. The Whisper number is the Street's unofficial view on earnings.
Company Profile & Various Businesses:
Here is a brief company profile:
Under Armour, Inc., together with its subsidiaries, develops, markets, and distributes branded performance apparel, footwear, and accessories for men, women, and youth primarily in North America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, the Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. The company offers its apparel in compression, fitted, and loose types to be worn in hot and cold. It also provides various footwear products, including running, basketball, cleated, slides and performance training, sportstyle, and outdoor footwear. In addition, the company offers accessories, which include gloves, bags, and headwear; and digital fitness subscriptions, as well as digital advertising through MapMyFitness, MyFitnessPal, and Endomondo platforms. It primarily offers its products under the HEATGEAR, COLDGEAR, UA Logo, UNDER ARMOUR, UA, ARMOUR, PROTECT THIS HOUSE, I WILL, ARMOURBOX, ARMOUR BRA, and ARMOUR FLEECE, as well as MapMya and UNDER ARMOUR CONNECTED FITNESS brands. The company sells its products through wholesale channels, including national and regional sporting goods chains, independent and specialty retailers, department store chains, institutional athletic departments, and leagues and teams, as well as independent distributors; and directly to consumers through a network of brand and factory house stores, and Website. Under Armour, Inc. was founded in 1996 and is headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland.
Pay Attention To How The Stock Reacts To The News:
From where I sit, the most important trait I look for during earnings season is how the market and a specific company reacts to the news. Remember, always keep your losses small and never argue with the tape.
