
# Liverpool squad confirmed for Aston Villa trip as Jurgen Klopp faces midfield dilemma

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:47:48+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-squad-confirmed-aston-villa-20791678)

Jurgen Klopp has decisions to make when Liverpool face Aston Villa in the Premier League on Saturday - not least whether to risk Fabinho in midfield.
The Brazilian is one booking away from a suspension, and if he sees yellow against the Villans will miss the top of the table showdown with champions Manchester City next weekend.
Asked how he would deal with his problem, Klopp joked on Friday: "No challenges at all.
"[But] It's not possible against Aston Villa, playing without challenges in that position. You cannot ask for this. Player knows it, I know it."
As such, he must decide whether to keep the Monaco man at the base of midfield, or drop captain Jordan Henderson into the deeper role.
Liverpool will decide late over whether Naby Keita is fit to play, having been substituted in midweek due to injury.
The Reds remain without long-term absentee Nathaniel Clyne and Xherdan Shaqiri, who continues to have a calf problem.
Joel Matip is out for "a few weeks" with a knee issue and young defender Ki-Jana Hoever is at the Under-17 World Cup also.
For Villa, Dean Smith is expected to recall Jack Grealish to his starting lineup, after the captain missed the midweek Carabao Cup win over Wolves .
Grealish suffered a calf injury at Manchester City last weekend but Smith admitted: “Jack is OK, he’s pushing to be fit for Saturday. He’s responded really well to treatment.
“He’s getting there. I am very, very hopeful that he will be fit for the weekend.”
Goalkeepers: Alisson Becker, Adrian.
Defenders: Trent Alexander-Arnold, Joe Gomez, Virgil van Dijk, Dejan Lovren, Andrew Robertson
Midfielders: Fabinho, Jordan Henderson, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, James Milner, Gini Wijnaldum, Adam Lallana, Naby Keita
Forwards: Mo Salah, Roberto Firmino, Divock Origi, Sadio Mane, Rhian Brewster
