
# Watch: Black Cat Steals The Show By Scoring ‘Touchdown’ During Football Match

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Yimin Huang**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407221/Watch-Black-Cat-Steals-The-Show-By-Scoring-Touchdown-During-Football-Match/)

On Monday night, during a football match between the Dallas Cowboys and the New York Giants at MetLife Stadium, a black cat suddenly ran onto the field. It quickly became the center of attention and the game had to be suspended during the second quarter to let it leave the field, per Mashable. The cat wandered around the end zone, ran across the line and seemingly scored a “touchdown” that won cheers from the crowd. The footage has been widely shared on Twitter. After the hilarious incident, the winner reversed on the field. While the Giants gained a six-point lead at the start, the Cowboys managed to score ten points after the black cat ran across the field. Eventually, The Cowboys won their opponents in a score of 37 to 18. The results of the game have led to hilarious Twitter memes featuring the black cat. One Twitter user described the Cowboys as playing as if they have “nine lives,” referencing the cat. Many more posted still shots of the cat dashing across the field, calling it the “player of the game” that night. They also celebrated its “touchdown” all caps and called it “good kitty.” Cat lovers admit to never being interested in football until that moment. Advertisement Advertisement
