
# Flashback To When Pitso Proudly Wore The Springbok Jersey

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **SL Social**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/fan-park/update/flashback-to-when-pitso-mosimane-proudly-wore-the-springbok-jersey/666548)

As the nation rallies behind the Springboks as they prepare for the 2019 Rugby World Cup final, we remember the time when Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane proudly wore the Bokke's jersey. Check it out!
Coach Pitso's fellow PSL colleague and Golden Arrows mentor Steve Komphela took to Twitter earlier today to send a message to the boys in green and gold. "Jola" said: "Let's chase these boys! We wish you all the best! The time is now, the moment has arrived! Go Bokke!"
Also showcasing their support was Cape Town City and Mamelodi Sundowns, who both took to their social media handles to send tributes to the Springboks in Japan.

        Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
      
That being said, coach Pitso can be seen wearing a Downs tracksuit most of the time, but in October 2018, the Brazilians mentor looked proud while donning the Springboks jersey.
Mosimane was, in fact, a flag bearer for the Boks when they took on the All Blacks in a game at Loftus Versveld.

        To see Pitso wearing the Boks jersey, scroll through the mini-gallery above!
      

        Do you think more PSL teams should get involved in showing their support for the Springboks ahead of the final tomorrow?
      
