
# Tragic Scots mum treated for urine infections for two years before tumour find

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Ward**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/tragic-mum-treated-urine-infections-20828219)

The family of a mum who died from bladder cancer have told how she was wrongly treated for urinary infections for two years before doctors discovered the tumour.
Margaret Beaton, 51, of Greenock , was finally diagnosed in March. She had two operations, chemotherapy and radiotherapy but died six months later.
Her heartbroken eldest daughter Vikki, 30, said her mum felt “cheated” by her shortened lifespan.
 
Margaret’s grieving husband Craig, 51, said: “She was given antibiotics for two years without having any scans.
“Doctors went down the infection route. We were told her symptoms were wear and tear when it was cancer.”
In February, mum-of-three Margaret pushed for further examination and was diagnosed with bladder cancer.
Later scans showed it had spread to her spinal cord and liver.
In May, she had an operation at the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital in Glasgow to remove her bladder and womb, which she hoped would save her life.
Vikki said: “We were told the worst-case scenario would be that she would have to use a urostomy bag but she would have a good quality of life.”
 
Instead, Margaret spent a week in intensive care and another 14 weeks in hospital.
Vikki added: “She felt cheated. She had the operation to give her more time and a quality of life.”
Margaret, who had worked as a pub manager and for Amazon, was cared for in Inverclyde Royal Hospital before going home on September 10, where she died in mechanic Craig’s arms two days later.
About 1000 people attended her funeral.
Vikki said: “My dad feels he has lost half of himself – they were together 31 years.”
Margaret also left behind Craig, 26, and Amy-Leigh, 16.
Despite questions over the time taken to get a diagnosis, the family have not lodged a complaint with the NHS and spoke of their gratitude at the care Margaret received.
But Vikki urged others to keep pushing doctors for answers, adding: “Hopefully this could save another family going through what we’re going through.”
NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde yesterday said it “would be happy to discuss any issues” with Margaret’s family.
