
# Powerful People Use More Abstract Language, According To New Research

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Travers**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/traversmark/2019/11/05/powerful-people-use-more-abstract-language-according-to-new-research/)

Language comes in many forms. An activity such as reading a newspaper, for example, can be described in concrete terms (“flipping pages,” “processing words”) or it can be described in the abstract (“attaining knowledge,” “expanding one’s world view”).In new research forthcoming in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, a team of psychologists led by Priyanka Joshi of San Francisco State University find that people in positions of power tend to communicate more in the abstract.
How they arrived at this conclusion is perhaps as interesting as the finding itself.
Joshi and her team analyzed U.S. Congressional speech records from 2001 to 2017. This amounted to almost 600,000 transcripts delivered by 1,088 members of Congress. To assess the possible influence of power on Congressional speech patterns, they separated the transcripts into two groups: transcripts delivered by members of the House of Representatives and transcripts delivered by members of the Senate. They hypothesized that members of the Senate would invoke more abstract language, given that the Senate is generally viewed as the more powerful branch of Congress (for instance, there are only 100 Senators versus 435 members of the House of Representatives).
Using a text coding scheme that categorized the concreteness/abstractness of 40,000 commonly used words in the English language – for example, the word “table” would be rated as a concrete word because it is easy to visualize while the word “justice” would be rated as an abstract word because it is more difficult to visualize – Joshi and her team found that members of the Senate invoked significantly more abstract language than members of the House of Representatives.
The researchers also found that female members of Congress were more likely to speak in concrete terms while their male counterparts spoke more in the abstract. This, the researchers suggest, is a real-world example of the perpetuation of gender stereotypes, among other things.
“We suspect that the gender difference in communicative abstraction we identify emerges from a set of converging reasons, including women’s social interactions in closely knit small groups, their historical occupation of lower status roles compared to men, their desire to establish close interpersonal relationships, their caution in signaling power and judgmentalness, and their desire to establish their competence,” state Joshi and her team.
Next, the researchers tested whether people could be experimentally-induced to speak in concrete or abstract terms through a simple role-playing exercise. The researchers recruited 300 students from a large west coast university to participate in a short experiment. In the experiment, they assigned participants to play the role of interviewer or interviewee. Once participants had familiarized themselves with the power dynamic implied by their role, the researchers asked participants to describe various behaviors. Interestingly, they found that participants in the high-power interviewer role were more likely to invoke abstract descriptions of behaviors than were participants in the low-power interviewee role.
Consistent with previous research, the researchers conclude, “People who experience power due to their role in social hierarchies speak more abstractly than those who lack power in their everyday experiences, as do those who are situationally primed in a given context to feel powerful.”
