
# Eminem says he would've sided with Chris Brown and beat Rihanna too

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:51:35+00:00**

Author: **Entertainment Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2093790/4-eminem-says-wouldve-sided-chris-brown-beat-rihanna/)

A recently leaked snippet from what is supposedly an old Eminem track has sparked controversy because of a lyric which says he would “side with Chris Brown,” after the latter was accused of assaulting Rihanna back in 2009. However, this is not the first time Eminem’s career has landed in trouble. The rapper, whose real name is Matthew Mathers, was earlier embroiled in several scandals that stemmed from his alleged portrayal of violence against women in his songs.
A Reddit user posted a seven-second clip titled “(SNIPPET) Eminem – Things Get Worse (Rihanna dissed).” The audio has been scrapped now.
In the snippet, between voiceovers meant to prevent copyright infringement, Eminem can be heard saying, “Of course I side with Chris Brown, I’d beat a b**** down too.” However, according to The Insider, the song appeared to have been illegally obtained. It was up on the website till Monday, and the lyric in question has been making the rounds on Twitter since.
It appears that the verse was initially recorded for Eminem’s 2009 album, Relapse. However, the artist later re-purposed the song for his 2011 album, making it a part of the track Things Get Worse. 
The BoB version did not impress many even after its release, given that it showed Eminem dissing Angelina Jolie, Jessica Simpson, Carmen Electra, Natasha Bedingfield and his own mother, who filed a slander lawsuit against him in 1999 over lyrics on the The Slim Shady LP.
Eminem was also sued by his ex-wife, Kimberly Scott, over a 2000 song called Kim that describes the rapper violently killing her. Both suits were eventually settled.
However, the biggest difference between his usual violent lyrics and the newly leaked snippet is his expression of support for an actual incident of domestic abuse as opposed to hypothetical depictions of violence against women. Earlier, Brown was charged with felony counts as photos of Rihanna’s swollen and bruised face were leaked which resulted in her hospitalisation at that time. He later pleaded guilty as part of a plea deal.
Nevertheless, here is what Twitter had to say about the matter.
