
# DWP rule man who is unable to leave house due to brain tumours is fit to work

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:36:45+00:00**

Author: **Tony Woolway**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/dwp-rule-man-who-unable-20807173)

A man who has suffered with brain tumours since birth has had his benefits reinstated after the DWP initially decided he was fit to work.
Philip Jewitt, from Porth, in South Wales, is unable to leave the house on his own and was described by a neurosurgeon as being unable to hold down a job due to "physical and psychological disabilities".
During the past few years of his life, the 22-year-old has had five major operations to have three tumours removed and to have two vents put in his head, reports Wales Online .
While the tumour is benign, it keeps growing and causes persistent headaches which become so painful they cause him to vomit. He also struggles with his eyesight, vertigo, headaches and weakness.
 
But last year the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) refused his application for Employment Support Allowance (ESA) on the grounds he was found fit to work after an assessment.
But with the help of his mother, Rita Curtis, Philip appealed the decision and a tribunal found in his favour so his ESA has been reinstated and backdated.
Despite winning the appeal, the process exacerbated Philip's existing anxiety and panic attacks.
Rita, 48, said: "It's really demoralising, we were only trying to claim what he was entitled to but they make you feel like you're lying and the amount of forms you have to fill out is ridiculous. The one set of forms was half an inch thick and Philip had to to fill them out but it would give him headaches so he had to do a little bit each day over the course of a week or so.
"I felt they had an answer they were looking for and the questions were repetitive, asking the same questions in different ways, like they were trying to catch him out.
"Of course, I work as well as being home and cooking for Philip and myself and having to fill in this paperwork on my day off, that was time-consuming to sit down and read through them and work out what they wanted. The stress of having to go through this and the paperwork and Philip got tired a lot and felt down."
 
Philip had to travel to the ESA assessment by public transport accompanied by his mother, but the journey took it out of him and he had to spend the next two days in bed recovering.
Rita said: "You can't determine if someone is fit for work in 30-40 minutes if they're sitting in a chair and answering questions.
"Philip was so tired he went straight to bed and was in bed for two days afterwards. They're saying he's fit for work — what sort of place would let him work for two to three hours and let him sleep for two days? They don't know how much he was affected."
The tribunal determined that the DWP would not need to review Philip's case again until September 2020.
While his medical condition has remained the same over the past year,
Philip said he now feels less stressed now he has financial stability.
He added: "It's been a lot easier and a lot less stressful by not having to go to the main town where there's lots of traffic and having to do that every few months to get a sick note from my doctor to get temporary ESA so I can pay my mum rent.
"I was pretty sure they would reverse the decision because of the way I am and the way I have been. I still consider myself worse off back then. It was a relief to have that financial stability but I can't go out and make money for myself."
 
Rita said she hopes her son will fully recover from his condition but they still have a long journey ahead of them.
She said: "My aim for Philip is for him to be how he used to be before this operation. He's a qualified gym instructor and a personal trainer so he's got a career waiting for him when he recovers fully but he just need that help."
A DWP spokesman said: "Decisions are made following consideration of all the information provided by the claimant, including supporting evidence from their GP or medical specialist.
“Claimants can appeal any decision to the Appeals Service which operates as an independent body and sets its own timings for hearings.”
