
# HIV+ woman who sold her baby gets bail

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Shyam Prasad S**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/hiv-woman-who-sold-her-baby-gets-bail/articleshow/71871488.cms)

A woman suffering from HIV, who had sold her baby as she was too poor to take care of her child and later wanted to get her child back, is now facing criminal charges. The woman who bought the child and two middlemen too are in the dock. When the woman demanded her child back, the buyers asked her to return the money and this led to a police complaint. All the four accused in the case are from Dharwad. The Vidyagiri police, who are investigating the case, have charged them under the Indian Penal Code and Juvenile Justice Act. The two middlemen and the two women approached the High Court, seeking bail in two separate petitions. The complaint in the case was filed by the District Child Protection Officer (DCPO). It was alleged that a woman had sold her new born to another woman with the help of two middlemen on June 20, 2019. Then she went to check on the child and requested that the baby be given back to her. The buyer refused to return the baby and asked the mother to pay Rs 8,000. The mother approached the DCPO, who took custody of the infant. He also reported to the police. All the four were arrested on July 3, 2019, and have been in custody since. The Sessions Court rejected their bail plea and they approached the HC. In the HC, the advocate for the accused argued that the mother of the child was affected with HIV and had voluntarily sold her infant. There was no coercion, threat or compulsion placed on her by the others. The police slapped them with a charge of human trafficking, but that was not the case. The mother had the better interest of the child when she gave the baby away. She could not take care of it because of her health. The government advocate argued that there was ample evidence to show the complicity and involvement of all the four in the illegal sale of the child. While the mother was the seller, two others were agents in the human trade. The court noted the mother had handed over the child for Rs 25,000. The two middlemen were not accused of coercion, threat or undue influence. The HC granted all the four bail as it felt that detaining them for the alleged offences was a punishment. Citing a Supreme Court judgement, it said, “Even where a prima facie case is established, the approach of the court in the matter of bails is not that the accused should be detained by way of punishment but whether the presence of the accused would be readily available for trial or that he is likely to abuse the discretion granted in his favour by tampering with the evidence.”
