
# UAE Gaming Weekly: Call of Duty, The Outer Worlds and Medievil

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Darragh Murphy**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/news/421451-uae-gaming-weekly-call-of-duty-the-outer-worlds-and-medievil)

We may be stuck in an age of remakes and remasters (that isn’t wholly a complaint), but now we’re starting to see a shift in this gaming generation.Well, more of an evolution, as we’re now starting to see ‘reimaginings’.How can we tell? There are three games that have recently come out in the UAE that fit that description. Yes, we’re looking at you, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare, MediEvil and The Outer Worlds – with the exception of the latter being more of a ‘spiritual successor’.Some may scoff at the notion, but from what these reimagined games are offering, we’re starting to like this new evolution. Take a look below at games to look out for this week in the UAE.For more on gaming and tech throughout the UAE, click here.Call of Duty: Modern WarfareNo, you haven’t woken up in 2007. Call of Duty has gone back to its roots (sort of) and returned to modern warfare. And it’s good.This time, classic Modern Warfare character (and fan favourite) Captain Price and the SAS partner with the CIA, and fictional the Urzikstani Liberation Force, to retrieve stolen chemical weapons. It’s up to players to stop a global war from taking place. Good luck, recruits. Oh, and after all that, its time for multiplayer, which as we all know ends up becoming the place where time really disappears...MediEvilIronically, Sir Daniel Fortesque is back from the dead both in-game and in reality in this remake of a beloved PlayStation classic. Controls may be a little dated, but our favourite skeleton knight has never looked better.Poor Sir Dan was struck down and killed by the first arrow fired in a great battle with the evil Zarok, but 100 years later, Zarok reappears and casts a spell over Gallowmere to awaken his undead army. But so has Dan, and now it’s up to him to finally take down Zarok and save the day.The Outer WorldsIf you always thought Fallout needed a bit of cosmic hilarity, Obsidian’s new venture into space will suit you just fine. You can check out our full preview right here.WWE 2K20Wrestling can’t be faked if it’s in a game, right? The full roster of stars have returned for another year of wrestling mayhem. That is, if you ever get to play it properly. The game is scattered with glitches and don’t get us started on character creation mode.Unless you like to make fun of how unfinished a game on release is, we think skip this one.
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
