
# Man 'stabbed child to death' in 'Satanic exchange for eternal life and wealth'

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:24:15+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, Will Stewart, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/man-stabbed-child-death-satanic-20786485?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

A self-confessed killer who claimed Satan ordered him to stab a child to death believed the act would make him wealthy and live forever.
Denis Pozdeev allegedly evaded security at a nursery in northern Russia and stabbed six-year-old boy Kirill Savenkova.
The 36-year-old, who was known to be interested in black magic, was caught on camera confessing to the act while in a police vehicle after his arrest.
“I read a spell about eternal life in a book, an eternal life for my close ones and a wealthy life for myself,” he told an interrogator.
Asked why he went to the kindergarten in Arctic port Naryan-Mar, he said: “A child had to be killed in order for the spell to come true.”
 
Pozdeev, an electrician, admitted the spell had not worked and instead he would be thrown in jail.
The confession footage was released as grieving mother Elena Savenkova - herself a nursery school teacher - spoke about how her son Kirill was killed when he and other children were having a midday nap.
“The teacher on the phone was crying ‘We have an emergency, come in and find out’,” she said.
“I thought maybe my son fell down and broke his leg…I ran towards the door and at first they did not let me in.
“I almost flew inside the bedroom and he was lying all in blood there. I was told it was too late."
When the heartbroken mum made it inside the classroom she was met with a disturbing sight.
 
“When I came in, all other kids had been taken out already," she continued.
“Only my child was lying on the floor, he was covered with a blanket.
“His pillow was all in blood. The bloody blanket was on some other bed."
According to Mrs Savenkova the teachers were in another room drinking tea when the attack happened.
The mum called her husband Konstantin, a driver, who at first could not register that his son was dead.
Neither of the devastated parents know the alleged killer.
They have decided to wait a while before telling their daughter Elena, nine, that her brother is dead.
It was revealed today that Pozdeev was earlier convicted of posting Nazi symbols and fined 1,500 roubles (£18).
Questions have been raised about the security at the kindergarten and why the man was allowed to walk in.
Head of the region Alexander Tsybulsky said: “It is known that an employee of the private security agency electronically opened the door to a stranger at a distance.
“I have ordered to urgently check the safety of all childcare centres in the city”.
While an murder investigation into Pozdeev is carried out, the kindergarten is being probed for leaving the children unsafe while they were sleeping and two security guards are facing a charge of negligence.
