
# Facebook Decides to Give Their Parent Company Name a Weird Logo

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:42:03+00:00**

Author: **Kiruti Itimu**

Original: [Techweez](https://techweez.com/2019/11/04/facebook-parent-company-new-logo/)

Facebook has unveiled a new logo today that is meant to represent the parent company that owns Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, Messenger and more.
The new logo has this flat font type that you normally see in perfumes. It is quite different from the font style used for Facebook (the social network), Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger.
There is also this GIF that rotates between their various brand assets colour schemes which gives it a night club vibe to be honest. Blue is for Facebook, green is for WhatsApp, pink-orange is for Instagram and so on.
Apparently this logo will be put to use in the coming weeks in Facebook products and marketing materials. This could be the precursor to their eventual merging of their platforms where they’ll add “from Facebook” tag. Setting apart their parent company name from their brand assets will make it stand out in a way.
However, there is still a problem. Facebook started 15 years ago and has grown to acquire popular platforms that form part of its ecoystem. However, the parent company and the social network have similar names and this is still not ideal.
Facebook could have borrowed Snap’s way where they decided to create a holding company Snap which now owns Snapchat and their Spectacles branding. This makes it easier to differentiate the holding company from their products.
Well, this could be a step, strange one rather, to differentiate Facebook the company and Facebook the social network and we have to wait and see how this will turn out.
