
# DOJ warns publisher of anonymous Trump tell-all that author could breach ‘one or more’ NDAs

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:23:52+00:00**

Author: **Madison Dibble**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/doj-warns-publisher-of-anonymous-trump-tell-all-that-author-could-breach-one-or-more-ndas)

The Justice Department notified the publisher of the upcoming anonymous tell-all book about President Trump that the author could be breaching non-disclosure agreements.
In September 2018, an anonymous individual claiming to be a member of the Trump administration penned a New York Times op-ed discussing the resistance inside the president’s network.
That same anonymous author now has plans to write a book titled A Warning to provide more information about personal conversations from the White House.
In response to the book announcement, the Department of Justice warned the publisher notifying the author that he or she may be breaching “one or more nondisclosure agreements” signed prior to working in the White House.
The letter, which was sent to the literacy agency Javelin and Hachette Book Group and obtained by CNN Business, cast doubt that the book was authored by a “senior official” and warned the author against publishing.
"If the author is, in fact, a current or former 'senior official' in the Trump Administration, publication of the book may violate that official's legal obligations under one or more nondisclosure agreements, including nondisclosure agreements that are routinely required with respect to information obtained in the course of one's official responsibilities or as a condition for access to classified information," wrote Assistant Attorney General Joseph H. Hunt.
Hunt added that any information that could violate those agreements must be submitted for “pre-publication review.” He requested copies of the author’s non-disclosure agreements, dates of employment, or proof that the author had not signed non-disclosure agreements — any of which would likely provide enough information to identify the author.
Javelin issued a response, claiming that the book will move ahead without delay, no matter the department’s objection.
"Our author knows that the president is determined to unmask whistleblowers who may be in his midst. That's one of the reasons A Warning was written," they wrote in the statement. "But we support the publisher in its resolve that the administration's effort to intimidate and expose the senior official who has seen misconduct at the highest levels will not prevent this book from moving forward."
Hachette Book Group also declined to provide the department with any information, writing, “Hachette is not party to any nondisclosure agreements with the U.S. government that would require any pre-publication review of this book.”
The book is slated to hit stores on Nov. 19.
[Related: 'You will hear a great deal': Anonymous Trump administration official to expose private conversations in book]
