
# 'Prison cell' flat for rent at £1,100 a month in London knife crime hotspot

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:26:55+00:00**

Author: **John Glover, Lorraine King**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/prison-cell-flat-rent-1100-20808881)

A studio flat in a knife crime hotspot in east London which is up for rent at £1,100 a month has been compared to prison cell.
The grim-looking main room includes a small double bed, miniature cooker hobs on the floor - and you get a scratched wooden table thrown in.
Some viewers of the property in Hackney have joked it looks more like a place where you would do time rather than have a good time, an impression reinforced by a picture showing bars on the windows.
Sellers Prime Estate Agents insist the "nice studio" is a good location near to an Underground station.
But Hackney has the sixth-worst record of knife crime in the capital with 21,900 knife-related incidents last year.
 
After the property was featured on Reddit, Roco637 responded: "Here in America, we call that a prison cell. No rent involved, just a 20-30 year lease."
FlusteredPigeon wrote: "'For £1,100 you too can simulate living in a prison cell'."
GuidingKnightThe2nd said: "Ah yes. I'd love to buy my own prison cell."
Comox, referring to the cooker hob on the floor, joked: "Fisher-Price My First Hotplate."
 
Lordofthepi wrote: "Ahh the classic 'young offender institute' chic."
Others commented on the location, including S-E-London who wrote: "You would have to pay me 1.1k alone to live in Hackney.
Cleanutility said: "F* Hackney as well. Absolutely s hole ."
Joethesaint wrote: "I live in Hackney and pay less than this for a much nicer place. This is just another 'let's post a notably s**t deal and pretend it's a standard one' post."
The studio is described as suitable for professional, couples or single people and is available for rent from mid-November at £1,096.
For the same money you could rent a two-bedroom flat in Birmingham city centre with a private balcony, allocated secure parking, 24-hour concierge and a communal gym. 
A three-bedroom semi-detached house with a private front and park garden plus a garage is on offer for £1,100 in Horsforth, Leeds.
Prime Estate Agents describe the property in Hackney saying: "A nice studio. Property benefits from a large double room with a kitchenette, nice shower and toilet. Fantastic location, just minutes away from local station.
"The property is in great proximity to many fantastic bars and restaurants due to its location, many supermarkets, hospitals, schools etc make this a great place to live."
