
# A textbook case of poor planning

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kumaran P**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/a-textbook-case-of-poor-planning/articleshow/71944912.cms)

Rs 1.13 crore could have been saved if Block Education Officers provided appropriate estimate of the required number of books The Karnataka Textbooks Society (KTBS) has incurred additional expenditure, to the tune of Rs 1.13 crore, by printing excess textbooks than required. This could have been avoided. In a recently released audit report it was revealed that out of 4.57 crore books printed in 2016-17, spanning 360 titles, 3.25 lakh books from 178 titles were excess at the end of March 2017. Five per cent of books printed remained in stock. The report by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (General and Social Sector for the year ended March 2018) said that the noncompliance of government orders by the Deputy Directors of Public Instruction (DDPIs) or the Block Education Officers (BEOs) and the KTBS resulted in the additional expenditure. The KTBS is responsible for preparation, printing, publication and distribution of textbooks for the primary and secondary school students in the state. They assess the quantity of textbooks to be printed for the upcoming academic year through indents from BEOs. Additionally, a five per cent buffer is provided on the total quantity concluded from consolidating the indents. The textbooks are printed based on the finalised indents.
The order stated that they (DDPI/BEO) need to exercise caution so that there are almost no textbooks left after distributing them
–Audit reportThe report said, “GoK issued orders which stated that textbooks will be revised from the academic year 2017-18. The KTBS, while calling for indents to print textbooks, issued various instructions to the DDPIs and BEOs. The instructions stated that they need to exercise caution so that there are almost no textbooks left after distributing them for free or selling them.” The textbooks society also said that there will be strict action taken against the DDPIs and BEOs if the indents are error-ridden. The report added, “The cost of printing these books came to Rs 0.76 crore. This indicated that there were lapses by the DDPIs and BEOs while preparing the indents. On further scrutiny of the indents, we observed that in 20 educational districts the textbooks remaining in stock ranged between five and 55 per cent of the indent for the textbooks.” The report said that no action taken has been taken against the officials. Due to the revision of textbooks from the academic year 2017-18, the books remain undistributed, rendering the expenditure of Rs 0.76 crore wasteful. The government told the audit committee that five per cent extra books have always been printed and it is not possible to calculate a precise number of textbooks as indents are received from various sources. The government also said that these textbooks will be sent to libraries. The audit also found that even after a year of distribution, the books were still lying in warehouses without proper arrangements or segregation. Rs 0.37 cr extra cost for better paperThe state government, while approving 70 GSM paper for printing textbooks for the academic year 2015-16, instructed that the textbooks be printed in 60 GSM paper from the academic year 2016-17 onwards. During 2017-18, in the technical specification report given by the Society, 60 GSM paper was continued, considering that there would be a cost difference of Rs 65,714 per metric ton. However, the report stated, “The society specified that 70 GSM paper be used instead of 60 GSM while printing nine textbook titles. The number of textbook titles was later revised to six. This resulted in an excess consumption of 56.27 metric ton of paper and extra expenditure of Rs 0.37 crore.” Rs 1.13 crore could have been saved.
