
# Bob Woodward says Democratic debates resemble Senate markups on health insurance

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:31:22+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Chaitin**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/bob-woodward-says-democratic-debates-resemble-senate-markups-on-health-insurance)

Veteran journalist Bob Woodward described the 2020 Democratic presidential debates as very boring affairs one might find on C-SPAN, but he sees untapped potential if a candidate embraces "presidential power," as President Trump has done.
In four debates this cycle, the wide field of competitors have taken shots at Trump but have also placed a heavy emphasis on policy.
Woodward told National Defense Magazine that the debates, featuring big names such as former Vice President Joe Biden, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, and Sen. Bernie Sanders, have "so far have sounded like the Senate subcommittee on health insurance doing the markup."
The Watergate sleuth made the comment as he was dodging a request to make a prediction on the election. He instead offered some thoughts about how presidents get elected.
"I think there is a universal appreciation on the Left, the Right, Democrats, Republicans for the exercise of strong presidential power. And I think Trump certainly is a manifestation of that. 'I'm going to be strong. I'm going to be tough. No one's going to push me around. I've got my ideas.' And it will be interesting if there can be a Democrat who will come along," Woodward said this week.
Woodard looked back to a prior presidential election as an example.
"If you go back to the Clinton election in 1992, Bush, George Herbert Walker Bush Sr., had come off the Gulf War, his approval rating was even in the 90s in some cases. And [President Bill] Clinton beat him by saying, 'I'm going to use presidential power to fix the economy for you.' We haven't heard that from any of the Democrats about how they're going to use presidential power," Woodward said.
Trump made inroads during the 2016 GOP primary and general election not only by disparaging his political rivals but also making bold declarations of his plans once in office, including building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and a pledge to "drain the swamp" in Washington, D.C.
