
# Where Did ‘Terminator: Dark Fate’ Go Wrong?

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dani Di Placido**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/danidiplacido/2019/11/02/where-did-terminator-dark-fate-go-wrong/)

It’s still too early to say for certain, but Terminator: Dark Fate is looking like a box office bomb. This might just have something to do with the fact that this is the fourth attempt to make the franchise “great again,” post-Terminator 2: Judgment Day, following the shaky Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines, the video-gamey Terminator Salvation, and Terminator Genisys, which is best left forgotten. 
Dark Fate demands that the audience forget all of those inferior sequels, (which is fine by me), and follows on from Terminator 2, giving us the “real” sequel, with the official involvement of James Cameron, who attempted to steer the story from the editing room.
Dark Fate isn’t a bad movie - I enjoyed much of it - but it’s a generic action flick, and makes some bold creative choices that sours the story for Terminator veterans.
Let’s examine what went wrong ...

        Warning: Spoilers Ahead
      
If you’re planning to watch Terminator: Dark Fate, read no further; I’m going to go into detail. 

        John Connor 
      
The first five minutes of the film are going to prove divisive to longtime fans of the franchise, as John Connor, the saviour of humanity, is casually blown away by a T-800.
Dark Fate’s opening sequence (briefly) resurrects young John Connor, with Edward Furlong’s childhood likeness digitally recaptured, along with de-aged Arnie and Linda Hamilton. 
It has to be said, the films that James Cameron produces (Dark Fate and Alita), always boast spectacular, eye-popping CGI (can he produce the sequel to Black Panther, just in case?).
I understand why John Connor was killed - with so many failed Terminator sequels out there, Dark Fate had to distinguish itself, somehow. In fact, the massive plot twist was James Cameron’s idea. Director Tim Miller justifies the decision by referencing Connor’s altered destiny, in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter:

        “And really, when you think about it, he could be sort of a pathetic figure as a man who had missed his moment in history and was relegated to this banal, ordinary existence, when in fact had Sarah not chosen to destroy Cyberdyne, he would be the leader of humanity. Nobody wants to see that.” 
      
I don’t necessarily disagree with the decision; the franchise certainly needed a fresh start. But those first five minutes completely disregard the only sequel that fans love - Terminator 2. What was the point of all that struggle, all of Sarah’s desperate attempts to keep herself, and her son, alive? John Connor might be dead weight at this point, narratively speaking, but he was our main connection to the original films, and his death renders both of those movies pointless. 
The death of Connor essentially makes Dark Fate a reboot, rather than a sequel, as the premise remains identical, just with a different character playing the role of machine-war-Messiah.

        Dani Ramos
      
Natalia Reyes was fantastic as Dani Ramos; Dani proved a very likable character, and Reyes’ performance was solid. But her role in the story, as the “new John Connor” (which is explicitly stated by Sarah Connor, in case the audience was too slow to catch on), is a failed opportunity. 
Agree or disagree with John’s death, it was done. But replacing one Messiah with another wasn’t a particularly creative move; if humanity had found a collective way to fight the machines, or if Dani had found an innovative way to beat the machines rather than simply rallying humans into battle, as John did, it might have been more interesting. 
But there’s nothing about Dani that separates her from John; she’s just another everyman who happens to be the chosen one. And her existence again motivates Skynet (I mean, Legion), to send a robot-assassin back in time, because that’s apparently their best use of time-travel technology. 
Maybe this was the biggest problem of Dark Fate; the concept behind Terminator is strong and simple, but not meant for a complex mythology and a string of sequels. A human is pursued by a seemingly unstoppable machine - that’s it. It might make a great action movie, in the right hands, but it isn’t enough to sustain a trilogy, or whatever Terminator has become. 
Terminator is much like Predator, and even Alien; the original films were classics, but the concept wasn’t malleable enough to continue. Hence, the dying franchises were kept on life support with inferior sequels, executives seemingly relying on the loyalty of the fanbase, assumed to show up for any mediocre film bearing the right name. 
These movies were once original and exciting, but the concepts don’t have anything left to offer us in 2019; they’ve been bled dry. 

        The T-800
      
Dark Fate takes the “nice Terminator” from Terminator 2, and stretches out the idea to a satirical degree.
The return of the T-800 that killed John was my favorite part of the film, but in an ironic sense; the fact that the killing machine retired and raised a family was like something out of Rick and Morty.  
This was genuinely a funny concept, but did not belong in this franchise; Sarah Connor’s relentless battle with these machines shouldn’t have been reduced to a series of Marvel-esque one-liners. 
I would have been sold on a T-800 living a solitary life in the wilderness, maybe, or finding new purpose as an assassin for hire. But a wife and child? Come on. 
I almost want to see a spin-off sitcom showing the T-800, known as “Carl,” living a mundane, suburban life, desperately trying to keep his identity a secret.
Imagine Carl attending a parent-teacher conference and watching the meeting through the red-tinged lens of the T-800? Sitting down for a family meal? Exchanging small talk with his neighbor while analysing the length of grass on his lawn down to the millimetre, viewing squirrels as a potential threat and coming up with increasingly implausible excuses why he’s not in the mood to be intimate tonight; it’s practically begging to be made into a comedy. 
This is what Terminator is now; a once-serious movie that has been thoroughly digested by pop culture and cannot simply return with some shiny new modifications, expecting to provoke the same reaction; it has been overdone to the point of irony.   
And perhaps that was the real problem with Terminator: Dark Fate - being greenlit in the first place. 
