
# Man Utd chief Ed Woodward set up talks with Red Bull's Ralf Rangnick over role

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:16:18+00:00**

Author: **Gareth Bicknell**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-utd-chief-ed-woodward-20829928)

Ralf Rangnick has reportedly had a 'lengthy meeting' with a Manchester United official over a role at the club after talks were set up by Ed Woodward.
United have been searching for a director of football or technical director to take charge of the club's recruitment.
And Red Bull chief Rangnick, 61, has emerged as one of the leading contenders, with the likes of Rio Ferdinand and Edwin van der Sar having been linked in the past.
The German coach, who most recently guided RB Leipzig to promotion to the Bundeliga, is currently Red Bull's head of sport and development, overseeing the brand's various clubs.
And United's executive vice-chairman Woodward despatched an official to speak to Rangnick, according to The Athletic .
 
He was previously sporting director of both Red Bull Salzburg and RB Leipzig.
And his links with both clubs could prove extremely useful to United, with the club's transfer targets believed to include Salzburg's Erling Braut Haaland and Leipzig's Timo Werner.
Rangnick has said he would want a great deal of responsibility if he were to take on the United job.
"I am happy where I am but if any club wanted to speak to me, the question would have to be: ‘Can I be somebody who can influence areas of development across the whole club?’ Otherwise you are only getting half of what I am capable of," he said, speaking to the Guardian .
"If, after that, you can work together in a trustworthy and respectful way, then you are more likely to be successful."
United have struggled to find an identity since Sir Alex Ferguson retired in 2013, with Ole Gunnar Solskjaer having struggled after being appointed trhe club's latest permanent manager in March this year.
Rangnick said: "It’s always difficult to follow someone like Sir Alex Ferguson, who was so successful and in place for a long time – and that’s even harder if you are often changing coaches.
"With every coaching change, the identity changes and this is reflected in the sporting development. You can look at the money that team has had available in the last five years and say there has been an underperformance."
