
# Destiny 2’s ‘Eververse Is Too Expensive’ Debate Is Back, And Yes, It Is

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/02/destiny-2s-eververse-is-too-expensive-debate-is-back-and-yes-it-is/)

Destiny 2 players have been grumbling about recent changes to Eververse since Shadowkeep launched, but it seems the recent Festival of the Lost event, which put even more items in the store, has set the community over the edge. It’s all anyone seems to be talking about right now, so naturally, I felt I should chime in.And big spender that I am (I’ve easily spent several hundred dollars on Destiny microtransactions over the years) I…agree with the notion that Eververse items are too expensive right now, and the overall economy of the premium store just seems really out of whack.
Simply put, the pendulum swung too far. It was true that before all these recent changes were made, there was pretty much zero reason to ever actually buy anything from the store other than getting X thing on day one because you were impatient (which I often was). Rather, between XP engrams or event engrams, and dust you got from dismantling unwanted items, you could either get pretty much everything you wanted randomly, and mop up the rest with Bright Dust purchase easily.
Now? That’s not how it works anymore. Not even close. While Engrams still exist, they give you almost literally nothing of value. Very, very old Eververse gear you probably already have or don’t care about at this point, and if you dismantle it, no dust, only shards, which you can get anywhere. This is true for events, where there are no more earned engrams, only paid silver purchases. Even if Festival items will rotate through the store for Bright Dust, it’s a far cry from how things used to be.
The Bright Dust economy is in utter tatters. Bungie realized that people had saved up big stashes of Bright Dust, and they’ve been doing everything to erase it ever since, between demanding you give it to Calus as tribute to pricing now-useless glows at 5,000 dust each or new Festival reskin sets at 6,000. Earning new Bright Dust is very bad, as it’s jammed into only a few select bounties, including the “less reward for more effort” repeatable bounties from vendors, and little else. On top of all of this, in a given season, a tremendous amount of content is never sold for Bright Dust at all, though Bungie is not clear about what is or isn’t going to be sold for it by the time the season is over, and we have to rely on dataminers for that info.
Then there are the prices. $15 for individual armor sets, $40 for a Silver bundle that will get you all three classes. $10-15 ships or ghosts or sparrows or ornaments, many of which cannot be earned for Bright Dust ever. These prices are not totally out of line with what other games offer. Fortnite and League of Legends legendary skins are close to $20 for instance, but context matters.
Destiny 2 is now half a free to play game, but only recently, and most dedicated players have already spent hundreds of dollars on content alone between full priced games and expansions. Destiny 2 is still selling content, lots of it, whether that’s Forsaken, or $35 Shadowkeep or $10 seasons going forward (if anything, I think seasons could be underpriced, but that’s a debate for another day).
This is also a loot-based game, unlike Fortnite or Call of Duty or whatever, so selling loot, even if it’s not helping you kill monsters faster, still feels bad, especially for these prices, especially when Bungie acknowledges there is so much player interest in the “fashion” game. Players rightly see a problem when Eververse is getting two sets a season while Crucible and Vanguard and world vendors have not gotten new armor in an entire year, if not longer. Players wonder why the new strikes don’t have strike-specific loot, and then they see a red spiky Shadowkeep sparrow for sale in the Eververse store that really seems like it should be dropping out of a Scarlet Keep chest. It’s not just that Bungie is selling things, it’s that it’s selling things that often feel like they should actively be in the game.
I don’t know what the exact solution is here. I don’t think the game can just go back to the way things used to be, because as nice as it was to be drowning in premium loot, I understand that Bungie needs its store to actually sell things. With that said, the Bright Dust economy has been ruined to the point where it might as well not exist at all. Rather, I think a vast, blanket reduction in prices on almost everything would encourage more overall purchases if ornaments were suddenly $5 instead of $15, and a few items were cut from the store and put in as earnable in-game loot.
Bungie has been constantly changing Everververse like every 3-4 months since Destiny first introduced it, so no, this will not be the last iteration we see. But more pressingly than usual, yes, changes need to be made, and I’ll be curious to see how they react.
