
# Cole going where? Our bold offseason predictions

Published at: **2019-11-07T02:29:10+00:00**

Author: **Anthony Castrovince**

Original: [MLB.com](https://www.mlb.com/news/bold-predictions-for-2020-offseason)

Because baseball is a copycat industry, the goal of every front office in baseball this offseason should be to build a ballclub capable of starting the season 19-31. Just like your 2019 World Series champion Washington Nationals!
Ah, but what path will each club take to get to that point? I’ve received an advance copy of the Hot Stove script and am willing to divulge some of its contents. All I ask in return is your undying love and support … and your forgiveness when 99 percent of what’s to come turns out to be bogus.

        1. The White Sox will sign Gerrit Cole.
      
Because baseball/people/the world will surprise you, I find it important to throw out one truly bonkers prediction. If I’m wrong, at least it’s not the first time, and the world will move on. If I’m right, I will be heralded as a clairvoyant. Or in this case, a Colevoyant.
“But Cole wants to pitch for a West Coast team!” you cry.
We said the same thing about CC Sabathia before he signed with the Yankees.
“But the White Sox aren’t contenders yet and have never given a contract this size!” you reply.
Eh, we said basically the same thing about the Padres before they signed Manny Machado.
This is going to be a financial decision, not a sentimental one -- or couldn’t you tell when Cole threw on that Boras Corp. hat like 20 minutes after the World Series ended? While I know the Second City isn’t Cole’s first preference and I’m well aware that the White Sox have avoided deals of this magnitude, they have the makings of an American League Central contender and have less than $20 million in salary commitments in each of the next five seasons. This would be like when the Cubs signed Jon Lester prior to the 2015 season and brought further legitimacy to a team on the verge of becoming a real title threat.
I figure there’s about a 1.6 percent chance of this happening … the same percent chance the Nats were given of winning the World Series when they were 19-31!

        2. The Nationals will keep Stephen Strasburg and sign Mike Moustakas.
      
Like most defending champs, the Nats will make every effort to get the band back together, but that’s easier said than done when two members of the band are lead singers in this marketplace.
After multiple extension efforts over the last year netted nothing, I predict that Anthony Rendon will walk (destination below), while the value Strasburg places on comfort and familiarity will result in a return to Washington, possibly on a deal similar to his initial seven-year, $175 million extension with the club.
That will leave a hole at third base -- and Moustakas will fill it -- bringing the Nats a different postseason-tested veteran on a reasonable multiyear pact.

        3. The Dodgers will sign Anthony Rendon.
      
L.A. tried to lure Bryce Harper a year ago with a short-term deal with an absurd average annual value (reportedly four years at $45 million per). It didn’t work with Harper. But it just might with Rendon, who recently was asked what he plans to be doing at age 36 and responded, “Hopefully not playing baseball.”
