
# Netflix will no longer be available on certain makes of TV

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:45:48+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/news/tv/netflix-will-no-longer-available-certain-makes-tv-2564689)


        The phase out will begin at the end of the year
      
As of the end of 2019, Netflix will no longer be available on certain makes of TV.
The news comes from a notice posted to Samsung’s website.
The change will come to certain Smart TVs, with a number of apps including Netflix to no longer be supported. The change will be implemented from December 1.
Owners of such TVs will be able to still watch Netflix on their television, but only via a third party device, such as a media player or games console.
“Although some of our older TV’s will no longer support Netflix directly beginning December 1st, 2019, many other devices you may have connected to your TV are still supported,” the note reads.
Netflix UK
“You can find a list from Netflix at netflix.com/compatible devices. As long as you have one of the supported devices, like a game console, streaming media player, or set-top box, you’ll still be able to watch Netflix on your TV.”
Last month, Netflix announced that it was set to crack down on password sharing after users are currently allowed to share their account with anyone they please.
The streaming service is also letting fans skip the Donald Trump jokes in Seth Meyers’ new comedy special Lobby Baby.
Another new Netflix change comes in the form of a fast-forward feature. Commenting on the new feature, NME‘s Hannah Woodhead says: “The key to being a more satisfied and engaged viewer isn’t watching The Irishman in 2.6 hours instead of 3.5; it’s platforms better understanding who their viewers are, and us lowly customers actually being a bit kinder to ourselves.
“That means taking a deep breath and setting time aside to actually connect with art, rather than gulping it down all at once and then moving on to the next thing that grabs our attention.”
