
# Man in custody after wife killed in Anchorage residence

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:44:48+00:00**

Author: **The Associated Press**

Original: [The Seattle Times](https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/northwest/man-in-custody-after-woman-killed-in-anchorage-residence/)

ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) — Police in Alaska arrested a man in connection with the early morning shooting death of his wife in their Anchorage home, authorities said.
The Anchorage Police Department charged Chue Yang, 31, with criminally negligent homicide and manslaughter Sunday, The Anchorage Daily News reported .
Nancy Xiong, 28, died of a gunshot wound to the head, according to court documents.
Yang, who was arraigned Sunday, said the shooting was accidental.
Officers were called to the home on Klevin Street in East Anchorage and found Xiong dead on a bed in the house, according to a police affidavit.
Prosecutors at the arraignment Sunday said the couple were involved in a violent relationship.
“She lived in fear of him every day,” assistant district attorney Betsy Bull said.
Advertising
A 911 call placed to Anchorage police at 12:36 a.m. informed dispatchers “someone was dead and that the husband had blood all over him,” the affidavit said.
Yang called Xiong’s brother and told him his sister was dead. The brother and other family members drove to the home and found Yang “walking in the street, covered in blood,” the affidavit said.
Yang locked himself in another bedroom, and officers had to kick down a door to reach him, police said.
“The defendant hid the gun he used to kill his wife. He did not call 911. He fled the scene,” Bull told a courtroom that included more than two dozen family members of Xiong.
Yang told detectives he had been “trying to show Xiong how to protect herself from intruders using a handgun” when the gun accidentally fired while he shook it in her direction, police said.
There were at least two children home at the time of the shooting, Bull said.
Yang’s bail was set at $200,000, according to court records.
___
Information from: Anchorage Daily News, http://www.adn.com
The Associated Press
