
# This NYC Restaurant Is Recreating President Nixon’s Iconic 1972 Welcome Dinner In China

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dan Q. Dao**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/dandao/2019/11/07/junzi-kitchen-nixon-china-dinner/)

Food and politics have always been intertwined—not just in agricultural and economic policy but also in diplomacy. One of the best examples of this is perhaps a series of dinners hosted by the Chinese government during an impromptu week-long visit by United States President Richard Nixon in 1972. With the two countries teetering towards the edge of war following China’s Communist Revolution, Nixon’s success in establishing harmonious US-China relations made the trip one of the most significant diplomatic visits by an American president to any country in history. But it also had lasting cultural impact: coverage of the week by national media exposed millions of Americans watching at home to the traditional Chinese food served at official dinners. A 1972 New York Times article would later quote a Chinese restaurateur who called President Nixon “the greatest salesman for Peking duck.”
“In step with the liberalization of American immigration policy in the 1960s—that brought in new immigrants and foodways from different regions of China—you might say that the President’s visit to China ignited an American obsession with Chinese cuisine,” explains Chef Lucas Sin of Junzi Kitchen, a New York City fast-casual Chinese chain. “For the very first time, Americans saw their president eat with chopsticks. They heard the praise of the crispy-skinned Peking duck. And they began to see that Chinese cuisine extended far beyond the chop suey houses they were then privy to.”
This weekend, Sin will serve a menu inspired by the televised welcome banquet dinner hosted by Prime Minister Zhou Enlai on February 21st, 1972 in the Great Hall of the People on Tiananmen Square. With seatings available tomorrow until Sunday at Junzi Kitchen Bryant Park, the dinner is part of Sin’s Chef’s Study, a monthly tasting-menu dinner series that explores the world’s relationship with Chinese food—past “studies” have included a 14th century Chinese roast duck and an illustrative collaboration with artist Tango Gao.
“We’re asking ourselves how gastro-diplomacy between China and the US has changed since 1972,” Sin explains of the Nixon dinner. “Almost 50 years down the line, food continues to be imperative in bridging the cultural gap, though its role certainly has changed.”
Half of the 1972 welcome banquet menu was designed for the American palate—white bread was served at every course, orange soda was poured, and a Chinese marching band played “Home on the Range.” The other half was meant to provoke: texturally-challenging seafood, fermented eggs, and China’s infamously stiff baijiu liquor. Sin’s tweaked rendition on the menu will include spongy bamboo shoots with an egg-white consommé, steamed chicken with coconut, and a Peking duck rendition called “four treasures of duck.”
“Today, those more exotic, difficult dishes aren’t as exotic and difficult anymore,” Sin says. “Salted egg yolks, duck liver, mustard greens, egg drop, salted plum, and mung bean are all part of Chinese culinary lexicon in the US. Now, given free access to information and a curiosity for the history and culture of regional Chinese cooking, we can renew and revise aspects of Chinese cuisine we might have taken for granted. And in so doing, we might further bridge the gap between the US and China.”
