
# Google Stadia app now available on Android

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Ash**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/google-stadia-app-now-available-on-android/)


        The Google Stadia is set to release on November 19th and, ahead of the game streaming service’s launch, its companion app is now officially live on the Google Play Store.
      
The Stadia app will be available on both Android and iOS devices. It will serve as a hub for all your Stadia needs, allowing you to do things such as manage your account, controllers, and game library all from the comfort of your phone.
Be aware that, upon launching and entering the app, the app will ask for a Google Account to be linked to your Stadia. This cannot be changed later, so choose wisely.
The app is also currently mostly off limits to those who don’t have a code provided to them with a qualified purchase. While you can log in and connect a Google Account, you can’t explore the app much further.
You can download the Stadia app from the Google Play Store by following the link here.
At launch, Stadia supports Chrome OS tablets including Pixel Slate, Acer Chromebook Tab 10, and HP Chromebook X2, and Pixel 2, Pixel 3, Pixel 3a, and Pixel 4 family phones. Other devices will be added post-launch, so keep checking back!
The service is also set to evolve in the future. Exclusive features such as negative latency and a host of both new and existing games, such as Cyberpunk 2077 and Elder Scrolls Online, will be available. Even Red Dead Redemption 2 will be on the service. Yeehaw!
If you’re out of the loop on the Stadia but reading this article anyway, here’s a quick catch-up: Stadia is a streaming service that Google hopes will allow people to play high-end games without having to own the latest or greatest hardware, software, or fancy gadgets.
While launch options are limited, Stadia hopes to support virtually every single device and most game controllers, meaning you don’t have to invest in anything out of your budget in order to get gaming.
