
# Mum left with holes in her bum after butt lift goes terribly wrong in Brazil

Published at: **2019-11-01T03:45:36+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/mum-left-holes-bum-after-20785792)

A mum was left with holes in her bum after a butt lift went horrifically wrong in Brazil.
Angela Pedrosa, 26, has huge scars on her bottom as a result of the procedure, which allegedly involved 300 millilitres of silicone being injected into her rear.
The mother-of-three suffered an infection after the treatment and doctors had to cut out rotten tissue from her bum.
She stayed in a Rio de Janeiro hospital for more than two months and will require a second risky butt lift to repair her bottom.
 
The new butt lift will transfer fat from her tummy to her bum, although it cannot go ahead until her recovery is complete, Mail Online reports.
She is currently living in constant pain and her confidence has been shattered by the ordeal.
Her experience comes after Sophie Elise, 24, spoke out about her regret at having a bum lift when she was 19.
Ms Elise claims she did not even have a consultation and now wants to have the operation reversed.
 
The YouTuber, from Oslo, Norway, had the surgery in Turkey, where bum lifts are available at rock-bottom prices.
Ms Elise, who has 400,000 followers on  Instagram , now plans to fly to Los Angeles for an operation to restore her natural buttocks.
Writing on her  blog , she said: "I’m tired of having an a** which doesn’t look natural.
"I didn't think about consistency and what I'd want to look like at 50-years-old.
"Now that I'm older, I think in a completely different way and the choices I make, whether physical or mental, should be ones I can live with forever."
She warned that cheap plastic surgery came with consequences and was 'not durable',  The Sun  reports.
Ms Elise, who recently had a breast reduction, blamed herself for 'dragging' her fans into the reversal process and vowed to keep future operations private.
