
# Springbok World Cup Winning Duo To Join Munster Next Season [Report]

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:41:00+00:00**

Author: **Sean McMahon**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/rugby/smcmahon/springbok-world-cup-winning-duo-to-join-munster-next-season-report/)


        According to reports this evening, Munster are set to sign two World Cup-winning Springboks ahead of the 2020/21 season.
      
The Irish Times report that Munster have secured the signature of powerful centre Damian de Allende. The 27-year-old scored a crucial try in the Boks’ semi-final victory over Wales before putting in a solid defensive shift against England in the final.
De Allende has spent the last six seasons with the Stormers in South Africa but he will join the Panasonic Wild Knights in Japan’s Top League this season before joining Munster ahead of the 2020/21 campaign.
The Irish Independent also reports the news of De Allende’s signing but they have also reported that Munster have secured the services of the towering RG Snyman.
The towering 6’9″ lock was largely used as a second-half replacement during the World Cup but the 24-year-old made a considerable impact in his time on the pitch.
Snyman is currently contracted to Japanese side Honda Heat who he will play with for another season before joining up with Munster for the 2020/21 season.
Munster will have space with regards to their allocation of NIE (Non-Ireland eligible) players.
Alby Mathewson is set to depart the province at the end of November while Arno Botha’s current contract expires at the end of the season.
