
# Finally, Ravichandran to direct Manoranjan in a musical

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Shyam Prasad S**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/entertainment/south-masala/ravichandran-to-direct-manoranjan-finally/articleshow/71928100.cms)

The musical will have no dialogues. The Crazy Star wrote the script in 90 minutes flat. It is a combination pending for nearly a decade. Crazy Star Ravichandran is now ready to give it a final shape. The showman of Sandalwood was to launch his son Manoranjan in a film he wanted to direct. The film Premalokadalli Ranadheera was also announced. But like some of his most ambitious ideas, it is still pending. Manoranjan made his debut under another director and is currently shooting for his third film. Untitled Carousel
‘I am proud of what I have done in Damayanthi’This time, Radhika Kumaraswamy has not one but two films making their way to the audience. Her home production Bhairadevi and Damayanthi are both supernatural thrillers. In the meantime, Ravichandran has had an stroke of inspiration. He has written a script in 90 minutes flat and is readying to direct his son. Yes, the script was written in only 90 minutes. But the idea of such a film was developing in his mind for sometime. On October 18, which happens to be his daughter's birthday, he found the moment of inspiration and wrote the script in one go. The film will have no dialogues. There will be songs, plenty of them. The veteran wants to recreate the musical magic of Premaloka, his 1986 directorial. Ravichandran is currently directing Ravi Bopanna and acting in Rajendra Ponappa. He needs the call-sheet of his actors for six months at a stretch for the musical he is planning. It can happen once his completes his current commitments.
