
# SuperSport Miss Late Penalty As Arrows Advance In TKO

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:20:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/telkom-knockout/telkom-knockout-quarter-final-report-supersport-united-v-golden-arrows-02-november-2019/666602)


        Telkom Knockout
      
Result: SuperSport United 0-1 Golden Arrows
Date: 02 November 2019
Venue: Mbombela Stadium
Golden Arrows secured their ticket to the Telkom Knockout semi-finals after defeating SuperSport United, who had a late penalty saved on Saturday evening.
Dean Furman returned from suspension for SuperSport while Thamsanqa Gabuza joined Bradly Grobler in the attack. Arrows, meanwhile, only re-called Divine Lunga and Seth Parusnath as their two changes from the win over Polokwane City.
Abafana Bes'thende got the opener as early as the 12th minute thanks to a great strike by Lindokuhle Mtshali that left SuperSport goalkeeper Ronwen Williams with no chance.
Steve Komphela's men should have been 2-0 up in the 19th minute after Knox Mutizwa delivered teasing a cross into the area that found Michael Gumede, who guided his strike wide despite having a lot of space.
SuperSport were slowly getting to the game in the closing phase of the first stanza but they could not find their usual passing patterns and struggled to cause any threat in the final third.
After a slow start to the half, Tembo's troops had a great chance to level matters in the 65th minute after Aubrey Modiba delivered a cross to the far post but Bradley Grobler's header sailed just wide of the upright.
That proved to be Grobler's last involvement as he was replaced with eight minutes remaining, with Thabo Qalinge brought on to change the home side's fortunes.
Qalinge then earned SuperSport a penalty in stoppage time after his cross hit the arm of Lunga, but Modiba was unable to profit after striking the upright as Arrows held on to join Maritzburg United and Kaizer Chiefs in the final four.

        Here's how they lined up:
      
SuperSport: 30. Williams, 14. Bhasera, 18. Nhlapo, 20. Kekana, 4. Daniels, 8. Furman, 24. Mbule, 13. Gabuza, 16. Modiba, 13. Grobler, 28. Mokoena.
Subs: 33. Pule, 12. Webber, 3. Khumalo, 25. Fleurs, 19. Rusike, 11. Mahachi, 15. Qalinge.
Arrows: 30. Sibanda, 14. S.Dube, 29. Sibisi, 20. Mathiane, 13. Lunga, 35. Mtshali, 26. Phiri, 5. Shitolo, 16. Parusnath, 33. M.Gumede, 18. Mutizwa.
Subs: 32. N.Gumede, 23. Dube, 2. Nkombelo, 7. Matloga, 4. Venter, 2. Sibeko, 11. Sibaya.
