
# 'There could be an endorsement': Outgoing Ukrainian president hoped Joe Biden dirt would bring Trump endorsement, Yovanovitch said

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:27:27+00:00**

Author: **Joel Gehrke**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/defense-national-security/there-could-be-an-endorsement-outgoing-ukrainian-president-hoped-joe-biden-dirt-would-bring-trump-endorsement-yovanovitch-said)

The Ukrainian official who accused Joe Biden of corruption did so, in part, to convince President Trump to endorse Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko’s doomed reelection campaign, ousted U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch told lawmakers last month.
“I think there was always a hope that President Trump would endorse President Poroshenko,” Ambassador Maria Yovanovitch told the House lawmakers leading the impeachment proceedings against Trump. “And so this is something that President Poroshenko wanted.”
Yovanovitch, 60, was the ambassador to Ukraine for three years prior to her abrupt recall from Kyiv amid a torrent of political attacks orchestrated by then-Ukrainian Prosecutor General Yuri Lutsenko. She appeared before House investigators on Oct. 11 for a deposition about the end of her tenure as part of the Ukraine controversy that has sparked an impeachment inquiry. The transcript of her testimony was released on Monday, and it suggests that Lutsenko, who was working with Rudy Giuliani, sought to hurt Biden in exchange for Trump's support for Poroshenko.
“I think Lutsenko, Mr. Lutsenko was hoping that maybe, as a result of providing information that is of interest to Mr. Giuliani that maybe there could be an endorsement,” she said, according to the transcript of her Oct. 11 deposition before House investigators.
Lutsenko’s motives in working with Giuliani have attracted scrutiny throughout the Ukraine controversy. Lutsenko, a prosecutor, was fired by incoming Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. “I think he was hoping that Mr. Giuliani would open doors for him in Washington,” Yovanovitch said.
Yovanovitch's testimony adds a wrinkle to the controversy, which has centered on whether Trump urged Volodymyr Zelensky — who defeated Poroshenko in April elections — to accuse Joe Biden of corruption. Other diplomats working on Ukraine issues at the time, as well as local anti-corruption activists, maintain that the allegations against Biden have no merit. Yovanovitch's assessment suggests that Poroshenko’s team saw Giuliani, in his search for evidence against Biden, as an opportunity to salvage Poroshenko’s ailing reelection bid.
“This was during presidential elections in Ukraine,” she said. “And President Poroshenko, the polling numbers were not good for him.”
Trump maintains that he was interested only in pushing Zelensky to comply with the traditional U.S. call for Ukrainian leaders to reform a notoriously corrupt country.
"Let me tell you, I'm only interested in corruption," Trump said last month. "I don't care about politics. I don't care about Biden's politics ... I don't care about politics. But I do care about corruption, and this whole thing is about corruption ... This is about corruption, and this is not about politics.”
