
# ‘The Affair’ Concludes Its 5-Season Run On Showtime

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Marc Berman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/marcberman1/2019/11/03/the-affair-concludes-its-5-season-run-on-showtime/)

Full discloure: I have not seen the series finale of Showtime’s The Affair yet, which airs this evening. And, no, Ruth Wilson and Joshua Jackson were not featured in this final fifth season other than in small clips (unless, of course, they pop up tonight). But I wanted to include the four actors in the above picture because they were the core characters on The Affair. Assuming that Noah (Dominic West) and Helen (Maura Tierney) do not officially get back together, the message behind The Affair was simple: do not cheat on your spouse. The aftermath is simply not worth it, at least not for Noah and Helen, and Alison (Wilson) and Cole (Jackson).
Flashback to 2014: We first met the Solloway family (Noah, Helen and their four children: Whitney, Martin, Trevor and Stacey), as they are off to a summer vacation at Helen’s parents, the Butlers, at their prestigious home in Montauk, New York.
Noah meets Alison, then a waitress at local restaurant The Lobster Roll who is still struggling with the accidental death of her young son Gabriel. The attraction between the two is immediate. And what begins has a secret affair morphs into shattered relationships, two ultimate divorces, a failed marriage between Noah and Alison, and – smack in the middle – an unexpected death, a trial, the continued downfall of Noah, new relationships for Helen and Cole, the murder of Alison, a move to Los Angeles, the death of Helen’s new boyfriend, a new relationship and career for Helen, and Noah as the next casualty of the #MeToo movement. Did I leave anything out?
What I always enjoyed about The Affair was how the one-hour drama broke the stories into two halves (or in thirds and fourths in this final season), focusing on the theme that week from one particular character’s perspective. While these targeted story arcs were basically on the four core characters, the inclusion of too many secondary players in this final season (including Oscar winner Anna Paquin as Joanie, the adult daughter of Alison and Cole) diluted what was once a very succinct tale of how relationships still exist despite an indiscretion.
Paquin’s Joanie traveling to futuristic Montauk, now completely barren, to unravel the mystery of her mother’s death seemed like a plot on a C-level sci-fi drama. The backstory on Noah’s latest fling was simply unnecessary. And Helen now dating the A-list director of the movie he is making based on Noah’s best-selling book about his affair was completely far-fetched (as was Noah and Helen surviving the fires in Los Angeles and Helen being bitten by a deadly snake last week).
Then there was the absence of Noah and Helen’s second child, and oldest son, Martin, who in earlier seasons was a key character. Where is he? In the land of the TV lost with Chuck Cunningham from Happy Days?
Even so, props to all involved on The Affair for what was a well-written, well-produced and superbly acted drama about the relationships of four different people and the individuals amongst them. While we will never know for sure if the sudden murder of Alison was a result of Ruth Wilson’s then contact dispute with Showtime, even this uneven final season of the series offered new insights into the remaining characters (particularly the alluring Julia Goldani Telles as oldest Solloway child Whitney).
I do know the expanded 90-minute finale will take place entirely in Montauk, where it all began.
As much as I will miss The Affair, there is a silver lining. Next Sunday on Showtime is the return of another personal TV addiction, Shameless!
