
# Demi and Kristian, Bachelor Nation’s First Same-Sex Couple, End Their Engagement

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:27:20+00:00**

Author: **Devon Ivie**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/2019/11/bachelor-in-paradise-lesbian-couple-demi-kristian-break-up.html)

Weeks after becoming one of the three couples to conclude their boozy Bachelor in Paradise stint with an engagement, Demi Burnett and Kristian Haggerty, the franchise’s very first same-sex couple, have decided to break up. Per their coordinated social-media posts, the duo parted with their Neil Lane rings amicably and won’t be offering any other comment about their relationship. “Our priority is doing what is best for us. With a heavy heart full of love for one another we have decided it is best for us to take a step back from our relationship. We ultimately want what is best for us in the long run and for us right now, that means being apart and growing individually,” Burnett wrote. “We have felt so much love and support from you all as you’ve followed our journey together and for that we are grateful. We will forever be proud of the impact our love story has made and we hope it has helped others feel more accepted and confident within themselves. We hope it reminded others they aren’t alone and don’t need to be ashamed of who they are.”
Burnett first competed on Colton Underwood’s season of The Bachelor earlier this year, where she became a fan favorite thanks to her unabashedly unfiltered musings. Upon joining Bachelor in Paradise this summer, she revealed to her friends that she had been dating a woman, Haggerty, outside the constraints of the Bachelor-verse. Haggerty subsequently joined the show and remained on Paradise until the final episode, when she accepted a beachside proposal from Burnett. (And, in a cute twist, she proposed to Burnett during the reunion show.) The two other couples who ended their Paradise stints with engagements were Hannah Godwin and Dylan Barbour, and Katie Morton and Chris Bukowski. They’re both still together.
