
# Brexit party chairman Richard Tice expected to stand in Hartlepool

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:12:05+00:00**

Author: **Josh Halliday**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/07/brexit-party-chairman-richard-tice-expected-to-stand-in-hartlepool)

Sources in leave-voting Labour town say property tycoon about to announce candidacy
The Brexit party chairman, Richard Tice, is standing as its candidate in the Labour stronghold of Hartlepool in December’s election, the Guardian understands.
Sources in the leave-voting town said Tice’s candidacy would be announced in Hartlepool later on Thursday.
The multimillionaire property tycoon, who was elected as an MEP for the party in May, founded the Leave Means Leave and Leave.EU campaigns.
Hartlepool has long been considered one of the Brexit party’s most winnable seats in next month’s general election, after it took joint control of the local council in September.
A Brexit party spokesman declined to comment. However, well-placed sources locally confirmed the news.
The town voted 69.3% to leave the EU three years ago and there is little sign that opinion has softened. According to estimates by the academic Chris Hanretty, it returned a higher Brexit party vote than any other Labour seat in May’s European parliamentary elections.
But Tice’s candidacy has also raised eyebrows locally, as the Brexit party had already publicly announced its election candidate as Ken Hodcroft, the former Hartlepool FC chairman.
The local Labour party, which is fighting to keep hold of a seat it has held for 56 years, said the Brexit party had decided to “dump a millionaire with at least some links to the town and replace him with a multimillionaire who has none”.
Jonathan Brash, a local Labour party official, said: “Hartlepool doesn’t need southern elites … being parachuted into our town to tell us what to do. He doesn’t live here, he’s barely even visited Hartlepool.
“What does Richard Tice know about Hartlepool and challenges facing local residents? What does he know about child poverty, the devastating impact of public service cuts, what it’s like to live in communities where there are too few police officers and too few jobs?
“He doesn’t know our town, he doesn’t know our history, he doesn’t know our people and they will not accept being used for this cheap political stunt. Hartlepool needs an MP that puts people before privilege, who puts Hartlepool first.”
