
# Dealmaster: A bunch of Anker chargers and cables are on sale at Amazon today

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:00:29+00:00**

Author: **Ars Staff**

Original: [Ars Technica](https://arstechnica.com/staff/2019/11/dealmaster-a-bunch-of-anker-chargers-and-cables-are-on-sale-at-amazon-today/)

Greetings, Arsians! The Dealmaster is back with another round of discounts and price drops. Today's list is highlighted by a number of deals on Anker chargers, charging cables, and related gear. Amazon is featuring a handful of products from the accessory maker as part of a deal of the day promotion, but many of the discounts we like are actually available outside of that sale.
Some highlights include $5 off (with checkout codes) the company's three- and six-foot PowerLine II Lightning cables (both of which are MFi-certified by Apple), a five-pack of PowerLine microUSB cables for $11, and a 30W USB-C PD wall charger for $20. There's plenty more beyond that, though, so have a look at the full rundown below. While the MSRPs of Anker chargers have generally trended upward in recent months, the Dealmaster has found these products to be consistently reliable, and just about everything here is backed by an 18-month warranty at minimum if something goes haywire.
If you're all set on the charging front, we also have deals on Samsung microSD cards and SSDs, Audible subscriptions, various Nintendo Switch games, the new 10.2-inch Apple iPad, and more.
The Dealmaster is launching its very own newsletter! Sign up to receive a shorter, tightly curated list of the very best tech deals on the Web—no nonsense, direct to your inbox, and often before they make it to the Ars homepage. Sign Me Up!

        Note: Ars Technica may earn compensation for sales from links on this post through affiliate programs.
      
