
# Gizchina is hiring a News Editor. Come join the team! - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:01:27+00:00**

Author: **Nick**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/gizchina-is-hiring-a-news-editor-join-the-team/)

Gizchina is hiring a News Editor. Come join the team!4 (80%) 3 votes
Are you a US/North America based writer who is obsessed with Chinese tech, smartphones, gadgets and all the mobile operating systems? You like writing scoops about Chinese manufacturers and their new creations? Then Gizchina wants you! We have a job opening for a US/North America based News Editor, and we’re hiring!
We’re always trying to expand our team and it seems that once again the time has come, as there’s an immediate opening for a News Editor! This is a paid position, with a lot of perks, such as participation in main US/North American tech events, new gadgets/smartphones for reviews, (obviously) monthly salary etc.
We’re looking for someone with a minimum of two years writing experience, excellent use of the English language, experience in News Editing, knowledge of WordPress, SEO, Yoast etc, along with an intuitive mind!
If you think you qualify for all of the above and are able to write from home during daylight US/North America times, then APPLY by sending us an email:
-> nick[at]gizchina[dot]com or
-> info(at)gizchina(dot)com
If your application is shortlisted, you will be hearing from us 🙂
Oh and in case you missed it, Gizchina is available in several countries of the world, so take your pick and bookmark your favorite!
This means that soon, you may have to apply to our other (family) sites 😉
