
# The Star Project celebrates 20 years of helping thousands of people in Paisley

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:47:03+00:00**

Author: **Carla Talbot, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/carla-talbot/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/star-project-celebrates-20-years-20817447)

Twenty years ago, the Star Project opened to the Paisley community – and since then the charity has changed the lives of more than 5,000 people.
When the Wallace Street centre opened in 1999, the Star Project started the long journey to provide a safe and inclusive place for anyone to go for whatever they may need.
Whether it be a young mum in need of support, a man who needs help writing a CV, a family who is struggling to buy food, or a person in need of counselling to overcome trauma – the organisation strives on helping anyone.
That is what Sharon McAulay, who manages the charity, says is the key to the hearts of people in the community.
She said: “People feel safe when they come here as no one knows why they are walking through that door. We don’t target a specific group of people who need help and we feel that is why people engage with us. There is no stigma.
“We have had people tell us that they feel secure coming here, and sometimes these are people who refuse to engage or get help from anywhere else.
“So we are proud that we are able to reach out and gain their trust and be able to help them the best we can.”
In its early days, the Star Project got off the ground just by asking residents what they needed in order to help as many people as possible.
This idea prompted the birth of the organisation’s drop-in sessions and there have now been 4,128 held at the centre, helping a staggering 5,395 people.
They even expanded the drop-ins to areas such as Glenburn for a year, helping hundreds more people.
Sharon explained: “We thought that was the best way to help people, simply just by asking them what it is they needed.
“Our drop-in sessions have been the most successful project we have ever had and still run them every week. We get a fantastic response from people.”
Over the years there has also been a catalogue of thriving projects, including creative and therapeutic workshops, anti-poverty initiatives, parent and toddler groups, community art and befriending services.
A dedicated team of 18 volunteers help make these a possibility, alongside six members of staff.
Sharon, who joined the charity in 2005, has made endless memories during her time putting these projects together.
One of her highlights includes a trip to South Africa, which began as a therapeutic art group, while another was helping lead the way for the Paisley 2021 City of Culture bid.
She told the Express: “The Star Project has always been known for its creativity.
“The art group was based around people’s perception of poverty in the community. It was called Promises, Promises.
“What developed was for us to go out to South Africa and we visited for two weeks and held workshops.
“This was a great thing for Paisley people to see and to be faced with absolute poverty.
“It was such an amazing experience for me and for the people who got the chance to go.
“It it is not where we ever would have imagined that art class would have led us.
“The 2021 campaign was also an amazing experience. Going to Hull for the announcement was brilliant and it was such a good atmosphere,
“We worked so hard for the community and it I was really proud to have been part of it all.”
Projects span across all genders, age groups and people of all backgrounds.
Invaluable services such as the Community Fridge have proved successful. It has handed out more than one tonne of food to almost 500 different people from Paisley in just six months.
A parent class, called Tuesday Group, has given vital support to parents whose children were being cared for by social workers.
The organisation is also making strides in encouraging men to engage with groups, such as the Men’s Shed and the Chin Up support group.
The Men’s Shed, which encourages men to socialise and learn new skills, now has 58 who go along to the group, while mental health support group, Chin Up has recently facilitated a community mural to improve the local area.
Members of these groups, and people who engage with these services will be heading to the centre on Thursday for its 20th birthday party to celebrate the milestone.
Sharon added: “There are so many groups and projects which are so important to people.
“It has been fantastic to watch more and more people begin to engage with us, in particular the strides we have made in getting men to engage groups.
“If you had said to me all these years ago that this is where we would be, I would be shocked.
“I hope we are still here in another 20 years and I think it is so vital that we continue to provide people with what we have been doing for all this time.”
●Call 0141 889 5850 to speak to the team.

        
          More of the latest news from the PAISLEY DAILY EXPRESS
        
      
