
# Nizhny Novgorod’s 'Orgkhim' Launch 'Green Chem' Production in Malaysia

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:45:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/asia/201911071077246730-nizhny-novgorods-orgkhim-launches-green-chem-production-in-malaysia/)


        On Thursday, the Nizhny Novgorod Orgkhim Plant, which produces non-carcinogenic (green-process) oil-fillers for tires, synthetic rubber and rubber compounds, opened in Johor, Malaysia, said the Nizhny Novgorod regional government's press service.
      
"Investing in Malaysia is improving the quality of international cooperation. Export is a priority for the Nizhny Novgorod region, and the Asia-Pacific region countries are the main market we focus on. In 2018, the volume of exports to Asia-Pacific countries – and we have 27 partners in this region – has grown by 57% and reached $1.4 billion", Nikitin emphasized.
In turn, Nikolai Khodov, Orgkhim's CEO, noted that the company's first full-cycle production facility outside of Russia was launched in Malaysia.
At the opening ceremony, representatives of the Malaysian Federal Agency for Investment Development noted that they "count on expanding cooperation with Russia in areas such as modern materials and electronics, medical devices and biotechnology, optics and photonics, IT and the aerospace industry".
Orgkhim makes "green chemical" products, which are environmentally friendly and safe for human health. The holding's largest production site is located in the Nizhny Novgorod region.
