
# Mum can now watch her baby grow after your generosity funds miracle cancer survival

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:37:27+00:00**

Author: **Geraldine McKelvie**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mum-can-now-watch-baby-20798619)

The generosity of big-hearted Sunday People readers has given a mum the chance to watch her daughter grow-up, thanks to donations which paid for pioneering medicine.
Just months ago, Haley Myles feared she wouldn’t live to see 18-month-old Ava bloom into a young woman.
Haley, 26, had already defied the odds to give birth after an op left her with just a quarter of a womb.
Then, in February, her world fell apart when medics diagnosed her with stage four cervical cancer. They had run out of treatment options.
Incredibly Haley is now in remission after your donations helped fund a course of miracle drugs.
Emotional Haley said: “I went for a scan and the doctor said ‘We can’t see any signs of cancer anywhere’.
“It was surreal, I was in so much shock I didn’t cry. I just ran outside and gave my mum a huge hug.
“I can’t thank Sunday People readers and everyone who donated enough. Their generosity has bought me a future with Ava. I just can’t put a price on that.”
The Sunday People’s ­appeal saw readers help to raise £35,000, so Haley could have pioneering immunotherapy. 
The procedure trains the ­immune system to recognise and kill cancer cells. But research is at an early stage, so the drugs are not ­available to most on the NHS.
Last month, Haley was given the news she and partner Ryan McShane, 27, had been waiting for.
Haley, from Carluke, South Lanarkshire, said: “My family tried not to show their emotions, but Dad cried when I told him the cancer had gone.
“I don’t think I’ve ever seen him cry before.”
Pharmacist Haley always longed to be a mum but struggled to conceive after being diagnosed with endometriosis, a uterus disorder.
In excruciating pain, she made the decision to have a ­hysterectomy in February 2017, resigned to never ­conceiving naturally.
But surgeons were unable to remove her whole womb and, five months later, she was stunned to learn she was ­pregnant with Ava.
“Ava was my first medical ­miracle. Now I’ve had a ­second,” Haley said.
She had several abnormal smear tests and was being checked every six months before her hysterectomy.
But after ­giving birth in March last year, she stopped getting reminders – and now suspects they were sent to her old address.
Haley started bleeding heavily when Ava was 10 weeks old and initially thought it was because of the birth. But the symptoms ­continued and she went for a smear test last June.
It came back clear but her ­instincts screamed at her that something was still badly wrong.
She paid for a private scan last September, when doctors broke the devastating news.
Haley said: “It was a total shock to hear the word cancer. I phoned Ryan and burst out crying.”
She was told radiotherapy was too much of a risk, as her womb op had left vital organs exposed.
Instead, she had six rounds of chemo – but was left shattered in February, when she was told it had failed.
Medics broke the news that Haley’s cancer was at stage four and had spread to her bowel, and there was nothing more they could do.
She said: “When you hear the words stage 4, you think, ‘I’m not going to be here, that’s it’. I asked the doctors, ‘What else is ­available?’ They told me I could try immunotherapy but couldn’t get it on the NHS.
“That night, I was in so much shock I went to a birthday party and had a gin like nothing had happened.
“The tears came after.
“I thought about Ava, and how much that she needed me.
“I couldn’t bear the thought of missing her first day at school.”
On average only a fifth of patients with stage four cervical cancer live more than five years.
But reading about pioneering immunotherapy gave Haley hope.
A University College London trial found a quarter of women either went into complete remission or had ­tumours shrink significantly after.
The only stumbling block was the cost, as Haley discovered it came with a price tag of up to £50,000.
Then concerned pals started a ­fund-raising page. Donations rolled in after we shared her plea for help in March. Soon, she had £35,000.
Haley initially thought she’d have to travel abroad, but found a Glasgow ­clinic which could ­administer the drugs. Now, she is looking to the future.
She and Ryan have booked their ­wedding for April 2021, and Ava was christened ­last month.
She said: “These are the moments I thought I might not see. “It’s amazing to be able to look ­forward to things.”
