
# Taylor: Ukraine Unaware of U.S. Hold on Aid During Call, No Quid Pro Quo

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:07:03+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/edwin.mora.1675, Edwin Mora**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/06/bill-taylor-ukraine-unaware-of-u-s-hold-on-aid-during-july-25-call-quid-pro-quo-impossible/)

Taylor’s October 22 depostion behind closed doors suggests Trump did not threaten to withhold aid during the infamous July 25 call between him and his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky that ultimately triggered the impeachment inquiry.
“July 25th is a week after the hold was put on the security assistance. And [on] July 25th, they had a conversation between the two presidents, where it was not discussed,” Taylor declared under questioning from Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX).
Ratcliffe then asked, “To your knowledge, nobody in the Ukrainian Government was aware of the hold?”
“That is correct,” Taylor replied.
Ukraine did not find out there was a hold on U.S. aid until over a month after the call, Taylor testified. The U.S. ultimately released the aid on September 11 without Ukraine having to do anything as part the alleged quid pro quo.
Ratcliffe explained to Taylor:
Taylor did not dispute Ratcliffe’s explanation of a qui pro quo, acknowledging that he is not a lawyer.
The Ukraine ambassador was not even on the July 25 call at the center of the impeachment probe.
Citing Ratcliffe, President Donald Trump tweeted on October 23, “Neither he [Taylor] or any other witness has provided testimony that the Ukrainians were aware that military aid was being withheld. You can’t have a quid pro quo with no quo.”
