
# Skint Katie Price buckles under weight of designer bags - while Bunny goes barefoot

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:40:34+00:00**

Author: **Emmeline Saunders**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/skint-katie-price-buckles-under-20815708)

Katie Price has shown off her designer clobber just weeks before she risks losing her house in a fresh bankruptcy petition.
The 41-year-old ex-glamour model was spotted carting a load of Louis Vuitton bags outside a hotel while her kids braved the chilly November temperatures without proper attire.
Her youngest child, four-year-old Bunny, scampered around the carpark without any shoes on, despite the cold and wet conditions.
Her five-year-old brother Jett walked next to his mum without a coat on, while Bunny's fleecy jacket hung off her shoulders.
Katie herself wasn't particularly well equipped for the weather as she showed off her legs in a grey Gucci jumper dress and matching platform trainers.
She carried a Vuitton weekend bag on one hand and had three more designer bags over her shoulders.
It comes just three weeks ahead of Katie's next bankruptcy hearing, in which she risks being made homeless before Christmas if she has failed to pay off her mounting debts by then.
She faces losing her nine-bedroom mucky mansion - which has been undergoing a major refurbishment recently - when her case is heard later this month at the Insolvency and Companies Court.
Last year saw the mum of five swerve bankruptcy by agreeing to pay off her debts through an IVA.
But at a hearing last month, the court heard how Price has allegedly failed to keep up with her monthly repayments.
She failed to appear at the hearing, prompting Judge Sally Barber to instruct Katie's creditors to email her and send her a draft bankruptcy petition notice in the post.
"Technically it's not an adjournment so I'm extending time," said the judge.
"Service will be effective on the expiry of seven days of completion of such sending of the email and such posting.
"Once you've done both, service will be effective on the expiry of seven days. I also extend the time for hearing the bankruptcy petition - I think six weeks."
Katie is due to be back in court on November 27.
Mirror Online has contacted Katie's rep for comment.
