
# England snatch defeat from jaws of victory in third New Zealand T20

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:11:19+00:00**

Author: **Ali Martin**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/05/england-snatch-defeat-from-jaws-of-victory-in-third-new-zealand-t20)

Eoin Morgan is not the type of captain to throw his players under the bus but after England collapsed to a 14-run defeat under sunny skies in Nelson, one wondered whether a touch of exasperation sat beneath the surface as regards one or two of them.
Set 181 to win the third Twenty20 against New Zealand following an improved performance in the field – led by the Curran brothers, Tom and Sam – the tourists looked to be cruising, needing 44 from the final 34 deliveries with eight wickets in hand.
A 34-ball 55 from Dawid Malan had handed England the ideal platform and, with James Vince and Morgan himself then set at the crease, just one calm head was required to take a 2-1 lead with two matches remaining.
Morgan holing out for 18 when attempting a third six off Mitch Santner’s final over began a cascade of five England wickets in 19 balls. New Zealand, who had posted 180 for six through Colin de Grandhomme’s broad-shouldered 55 from 35, applied the squeeze superbly.
“We didn’t do the simple things right, we didn’t establish a partnership, we didn’t hit with the wind – things that the Black Caps did throughout,” said Morgan after his side limped to 166 for seven. “The lack of experience may have cost us. It’s great how competitive the series is so far, and integrating everyone into the squad. But we feel that’s one that got away.”
It is true that the XI on show was light by way of caps. Jonny Bairstow was stood down so that Tom Banton could make his much-anticipated debut. The 20‑year‑old Somerset opener crackled, briefly, with 18 from 10 including an eye-popping whipped six off Lockie Ferguson, and there is a raft of first-teamers only just setting down in New Zealand to begin preparations for the Test series.
But given four of the top five batsmen are 28 or older, the excuse does not stack up entirely either. Malan had spoke of “feeding on scraps” as regards England opportunities, and a desire to be the man who finishes off matches. Here, he looked in full control en route to a fifth half‑century in eight games – only to hit a full toss from Ish Sodhi down the throat of deep midwicket.
Morgan had been tucking into Santner and so was probably within his rights to attempt his shot, only for the left-armer to cannily hold it back a touch. But Vince was still at the crease approaching a second half-century of the series and was joined by Sam Billings, a player with 39 white-ball caps and vice-captain on tour.
Within the blink of an eye both men had been vapourised. Billings was run out by Colin Munro from point turning back from a single that never was. Vince, owner of a World Cup winners’ medal and a county captain, gave the recalled Blair Tickner his second for the innings by chipping softly to mid-off.
With Ferguson signing off from the series to start his own Test tune-up by knocking over Lewis Gregory and Sam Curran in the space of three balls, the 5,000 or so home supporters who lined the grass banks, and took in the spectacular backdrop of Mount Richmond Forest Park, were in clover.
They had earlier seen De Grandhomme at his belligerent best, following a 17–ball 33 from Martin Guptill, with five fours and three sixes that showed just how good conditions were. But England, who handed Matt Parkinson a first cap along with Banton, pegged back the home side at regular intervals, such that the highest total of the series was still only par.
Tom Curran, recalled in place of Chris Jordan, held a fine swirling catch off Guptill as the opener was fooled by a knuckle-ball from his Worcestershire team-mate, Pat Brown. The right-armer was the pick of the attack with two wickets including De Grandhomme, caught in the deep to end a stand of 66 with Ross Taylor.
Parkinson, in for Adil Rashid, bowled just two tidy overs due to the wind picking up later on, when New Zealand had two left-handers at the crease. The leg-spinner did claim his maiden international wicket, the No 3 Tim Seifert bowled through his legs playing a reverse slog‑sweep, and looked confident on debut.
It was a trickier day for his fellow Lancastrian, Saqib Mahmood, who struggled with his radar, was manhandled by de Grandhomme while leaking 49 runs overall, but at least trapped Taylor lbw in his final over.
Sam Curran doused a quickfire 20 from Jimmy Neesham and after three matches is looking the pick of the newcomers with the ball. The all‑rounder looked too high coming in at No 6 later on, however, once the full-time – dare we say experienced – batsmen had blown it.
