
# Chevrolet Camaro review: Bumblebee's heir will give you a buzz

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:28:51+00:00**

Author: **Colin Goodwin, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/colin-goodwin/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/motoring/car-reviews/chevrolet-camaro-review-bumblebees-heir-20801557)

The last time I drove a Chevrolet Camaro was in Skegness.
The car was yellow with two fat black stripes across its bonnet and attracted a lot of attention.
Particularly from small boys pulling on parents’ arms and pointing furiously at the car.
Eventually a youngster came up and explained I was driving Bumblebee, a character from the Transformers movie.
Well there you go – out of touch as usual.
The Camaro we’re testing today is a 6th generation model and has moved on a long way from that Bumblebee replica six years ago.
There is only one official UK dealer that can sell you a new Chevrolet Camaro (or Corvette) and that’s Ian Allan Motors in Surrey.
 
The firm has bought up the last type-approved Camaros available and – since it’s possible Chevrolet will not build the car after this generation – it could be the last new one I ever drive.
In America, the Camaro goes head to head with the Ford Mustang and has been doing so since 1967.
General Motors has never thought to build the car in right-hand drive and has probably lost out on a lot of sales. Ford has sold 8,500 Mustangs in the UK since it started importing RHD cars.
It’s a great shame because the Camaro is a hell of a cool car and, like the Mustang, it’s a relative bargain.
Also it’s available with a four-cylinder turbocharged engine just like the Ford.
Yet although it provides adequate performance, it doesn’t make the right noise – and that’s half the point of an American muscle car.
Our white Camaro has the essential 6.2-litre V8 engine.
It’s virtually the same as the one fitted to the Corvette but has 453bhp to the Vette’s 466bhp.
 
A more substantial difference is that the Corvette is lighter which is why it is 0.5sec faster to 60mph than the 2+2 seats Camaro.
Not that the latter’s 4.6secs is anything to be embarrassed about.
Our car has an eight-speed automatic gearbox.
I’ve driven a manual and the automatic is easier to live with.
Better still, you can only get the system that shuts down four of the engine’s eight cylinders on part throttle with the automatic gearbox.
It’s good to have because it substantially improves fuel consumption.
A big car with a very big V8 engine is never going to be frugal, but you’ll easily get 25mpg out of the Camaro.
I love its looks.
The grey of our test car is a bit boring and I’d either choose another colour or would jazz it up with stripes.
You could have a lot of fun messing around and modifying it because the after-market industry in the US is huge.
Louder exhaust, trick suspension, go-faster parts for the engine; it’s all available.
Not that there’s much wrong with the car as it is.
You’re getting a 180mph car for bang on £45,000.
What’s more, the Camaro is better finished than it used to be with essentials like satnav and Apple CarPlay.
There are different driving modes to play with – from Normal through Sport to Track.
Sport is perfect for everyday driving as it doesn’t firm up the suspension too much.
I’d even take this car on a few track days.
Brembo brakes are standard and would be well up to the task of stopping it on a circuit.
In America the Camaro is about the same price as a Ford Focus which is why so many college kids have them.
Many US car rental companies have Camaros on their fleets – so if you’re over there on holiday have a go in one.
Be careful though, the bug might bite.

        Chevrolet Camaro Two-door coupe
      

         
      

         
      

         
      
Price: £45,000
Engine: 6.2-litre eight-cylinder, 453bhp
0-62mph: 4.6sec
Fuel consumption: 22.0mpg

        Toyota Supra GR
      
Looks great but hasn’t the Camaro’s character and raw grunt.

        Ford Mustang
      
Has the big advantage of being right-hand drive. Otherwise they’re closely matched.

        BMW M4
      
Lots more money and everyone’s got one. And it has fewer cylinders.
