
# Lazio 1-2 Celtic: Neil Lennon's side reach Europa League last 32

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:17:23+00:00**

Author: **Kheredine Idessane**

Original: [BBC Sport](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/50253786)


        Olivier Ntcham's dramatic stoppage-time strike earned Celtic a stunning win over Lazio and a place in the Europa League last 32 with two games to spare.
      
Serie A's top scorer Ciro Immobile had given Lazio the lead with an unopposed back-post volley, but James Forrest lashed in his 11th goal of the season just before the break to level.
Neil Lennon's side had to defend stoutly after the break and looked like they would earn a point until Ntcham ran on to an Odsonne Edouard pass to secure Celtic's first win in Italy.
It is the second time in two weeks that the Scottish Premiership side have stunned Lazio with a late winner, Christopher Jullien's header earning victory in Glasgow two weeks ago.
It also means that their games with Rennes at Celtic Park and against Cluj in Romania will now only decide whether they win the group or not.
When you haven't ever beaten an Italian side in their own country, the last thing you want to do is give them a helping hand. The concession of a goal inside seven minutes to the predatory instincts of Immobile rendered a tricky task more akin to mission impossible.
Several key Celtic players looked ill at ease in a 3-5-2 formation in which Forrest and Jonny Hayes were deployed as wing-backs and struggled to adapt, not helped by the players in front of them constantly giving the ball away. The Irishman in particular looked like a fish out of water as Lazio pinpointed a perceived weakness in their opponents.
Keeping the deficit at just a single goal for half an hour was a minor triumph as pressure from the impressive Immobile almost led to an own goal when Jullien headed narrowly past Fraser Forster's left-hand post. There were other moments when a frantic Celtic back line had to do some last-ditch defending to keep the marauding hosts out.
Slowly but surely, the visitors found their feet. Twice Mohamed Elyounoussi made threatening advances but failed to find a final product.
And just before the break, a moment of magic that would have graced any arena. The pass from Elyounoussi to Forrest, in behind the Lazio defence. A rocket of a shot into the top right-hand corner of Thomas Strakosha's net. Wild celebrations from nearly 10,000 visiting fans who hadn't had anything to get excited about prior to that.
Parity celebrated five minutes before the break, and only preserved by a wonderful save by Forster from a Sergej Milinkovic-Savic header, and then an even better goal-line clearance by Jullien to deny Felipe Caicedo as Lazio tried to hit back straight away. In a frantic minute or two, Marco Parolo then headed over when he could, and probably should, have scored.
A half of two halves, if you will, and a blessed relief for Lennon to get his men in for half-time still on level terms with a very dangerous-looking opponent.
That said, had Edouard taken an early second-half chance, this game could have been completely turned on his head. A dodgy clearance by Strakosha gifted Celtic the ball and when Edouard was played in, the Albanian goalkeeper made amends with a strong save from the French striker's shot.
More Celtic pressure drew a mistake from Lucas Leiva, which allowed Forrest to break clear. But with Hayes and Edouard screaming for a pass, the Scotland forward fancied a second goal but his effort was blocked by a defender, much to Edouard's fury.
The dynamic of the match had changed completely; the meek start made by Celtic a distant memory, fading as quickly as the smoke from the pyrotechnics which were on show before a ball was kicked. Uefa has punished Celtic for that before and seem almost certain to do so again.
The fireworks on the field were coming from the yellow-shirted visitors. Some fabulous build-up play involving Christie, McGregor and Forrest left Edouard with the ball inside the Lazio box. However, he couldn't control it and a most presentable chance was gone in an instant.
It was almost instantly regretted too, as Forster once again kept out a Milinkovic-Savic header with an impressive point-blank save. All of a sudden, Lazio seemed to regain their belief. Substitute Luis Alberto nearly scored straight from a corner; the ball ballooned back off Forster's near post as Celtic breathed a sizeable sigh of relief.
And then came what felt like 'the' chance. Elyounoussi's pass to Edouard was inch-perfect, inviting the Frenchman to race into the left-hand side of the penalty area. His curling shot slipped agonisingly wide. Would there be a better opportunity all night?
Edouard tried to make amends with a free-kick moments later but again was narrowly off target, this time over the crossbar. This was a half full of passion, pride and no little skill from Celtic. A pulsating contest which ebbed first one way and then another with both defences having plenty of work to do to subdue some smart attacking play from both sets of forwards.
No more so than when a great, late chance presented itself for Lazio's Luis Alberto, only for the powerful left hand of Forster to keep Celtic level.
And then the moment of history. Another Lazio mistake gifted Edouard the ball, and he played in fellow Frenchman Ntcham, whose delicious chip took Celtic through and sent their jubilant fans away into the Roman night delirious.
The first time Celtic have ever won on Italian soil, and only the second time ever they've beaten an Italian side away from home. The other time was that famous night in Lisbon in 1967. These Roman lions in Celtic shirt may not be remembered as long, but they'll savour a famous, famous victory. And rightly so.
Immobile and Milinkovic-Savic were standouts for Lazio. Forrest had a good game and scored an excellent goal for Celtic.
But for providing several top-class saves at vital moments - a bit like he did in the last meeting against the Italians at Celtic Park - the award goes to Forster. Celtic deserved to take something from this game and the Englishman was the man who helped deliver it with a wonderful late save, and several more earlier in the match.
Referee:Tobias Stieler
Home TeamLazioAway TeamCelticPossessionHome57%Away43%ShotsHome15Away12Shots on TargetHome6Away4CornersHome8Away5FoulsHome9Away9
Posted at
Match ends, Lazio 1, Celtic 2.
Posted at 90'+6'
Second Half ends, Lazio 1, Celtic 2.
Posted at 90'+5'
Goal! Lazio 1, Celtic 2. Olivier Ntcham (Celtic) right footed shot from the right side of the box to the top right corner. Assisted by Odsonne Edouard.
Posted at 90'
Corner, Celtic. Conceded by Luiz Felipe.
Posted at 90'
Attempt blocked. Mohamed Elyounoussi (Celtic) right footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Fraser Forster.
Posted at 89'
Attempt missed. Sergej Milinkovic-Savic (Lazio) left footed shot from the centre of the box is high and wide to the left. Assisted by Senad Lulic with a cross.
Posted at 89'
Substitution, Celtic. Moritz Bauer replaces James Forrest.
Posted at 86'
Attempt missed. Sergej Milinkovic-Savic (Lazio) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left.
Posted at 86'
Attempt saved. Luis Alberto (Lazio) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Sergej Milinkovic-Savic.
Posted at 86'
Attempt blocked. Olivier Ntcham (Celtic) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Jonny Hayes.
Posted at 85'
Attempt saved. Felipe Caicedo (Lazio) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Valon Berisha.
Posted at 85'
Attempt saved. Valon Berisha (Lazio) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Sergej Milinkovic-Savic.
Posted at 85'
Attempt saved. Odsonne Edouard (Celtic) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Posted at 84'
Foul by Francesco Acerbi (Lazio).
Posted at 84'
Odsonne Edouard (Celtic) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 83'
Substitution, Celtic. Nir Bitton replaces Hatem Elhamed.
Posted at 82'
Substitution, Lazio. Valon Berisha replaces Denis Vavro.
Posted at 79'
Attempt missed. Odsonne Edouard (Celtic) right footed shot from outside the box is too high from a direct free kick.
Posted at 78'
Foul by Luiz Felipe (Lazio).
Posted at 78'
Odsonne Edouard (Celtic) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 77'
Substitution, Celtic. Olivier Ntcham replaces Ryan Christie.
Posted at 76'
Attempt missed. Odsonne Edouard (Celtic) right footed shot from the left side of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Mohamed Elyounoussi with a through ball.
Posted at 75'
Attempt missed. Manuel Lazzari (Lazio) right footed shot from outside the box is too high.
Posted at 74'
Corner, Lazio. Conceded by Kristoffer Ajer.
Posted at 74'
Attempt blocked. Sergej Milinkovic-Savic (Lazio) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Ciro Immobile.
Posted at 72'
Felipe Caicedo (Lazio) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 72'
Foul by Christopher Jullien (Celtic).
Posted at 68'
Corner, Lazio. Conceded by Hatem Elhamed.
Posted at 68'
Attempt saved. Sergej Milinkovic-Savic (Lazio) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Francesco Acerbi.
Posted at 66'
Attempt blocked. Ciro Immobile (Lazio) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Sergej Milinkovic-Savic.
Posted at 62'
Attempt missed. Felipe Caicedo (Lazio) header from very close range misses to the left. Assisted by Sergej Milinkovic-Savic with a headed pass.
Posted at 59'
Foul by Senad Lulic (Lazio).
Posted at 59'
Ryan Christie (Celtic) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Posted at 58'
Offside, Lazio. Sergej Milinkovic-Savic tries a through ball, but Ciro Immobile is caught offside.
Posted at 58'
Substitution, Lazio. Luis Alberto replaces Lucas Leiva.
Posted at 58'
Substitution, Lazio. Senad Lulic replaces Jony.
Posted at 55'
Denis Vavro (Lazio) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 55'
Foul by Odsonne Edouard (Celtic).
Posted at 54'
Attempt missed. Christopher Jullien (Celtic) header from the centre of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Ryan Christie with a cross following a corner.
Posted at 54'
Corner, Celtic. Conceded by Manuel Lazzari.
Show more updatesgoal
