
# This Roomba Can Empty Itself & Its $300 Off Today

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:33:17+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-irobot-roomba-i7-plus-sale-cheap-price.html)

The iRobot Roomba i7+ robot vacuum is on sale, for just $799. That's good for $300 off of its regular price.
This does include the dock for the iRobot Roomba i7+ to empty itself, which is one of its most important and unique selling points. It's also a big reason why this one costs over a grand normally.
With the iRobot Roomba i7+, you'll be able to clean up your entire home, and then it can empty itself. This is a big deal. Seeing as a lot of people have trouble emptying their robot vacuums, without spilling all of that dirt and dust back onto the floor. This means that you won't need to run the robot vacuum again after you empty the vacuum. And you'll never need to worry about emptying the vacuum. Just empty the bag that is in the dock.
Advertisement
As for cleaning, the iRobot Roomba i7+ is really good at that. It has plenty of suction, and can pick up 10x as much dirt as any other robot vacuum on the market right now. It sports Roomba's 3-stage cleaning system, which is great at not leaving behind any dirt. It lifts the dirt and then sucks it up with the center brush underneath the robot vacuum.
The iRobot Roomba i7+ is also compatible with the Roomba app. Allowing you to control it from your smartphone. And it also works with your voice. When you use personal assistants like Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. Which is a really cool feature, being able to tell Google to have Roomba start cleaning up when you make a mess. Now that is definitely the future.
You can pick up the iRobot Roomba i7+ robot vacuum from this Amazon sale by clicking here. But you'd better hurry as this $300 off is not going to last long.
Advertisement

        iRobot Roomba i7+ - Amazon - $799
      
