
# No need for protest as crude palm oil price is rising — minister

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:05:51+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/no-need-protest-crude-palm-oil-price-rising-%E2%80%94-minister)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 4): Primary Industries Minister Teresa Kok Suh Sim has questioned the motives of those who staged a protest, purportedly defending oil palm settlers and smallholders in front of the Parliament building here today.
Kok said she does not understand the need for the protest, when the crude palm oil price is on the rise.
“I don't understand, why are they protesting? I believe they were brought in by the opposition MPs because they know that I will be winding up the debate (on the Supply Bill 2020). We know the crude palm oil price has risen compared to December last year when the price was RM1,700 per tonne.
“ Now if we follow the price on Bursa (Bursa Malaysia Bhd), I would like to state that the price as at Oct 31 was RM2,485 per tonne, that's an increase of about RM700 per tonne,” she told reporters at the Parliament lobby today.
She was commenting on the protest organised by Umno Settlers and Smallholders Welfare Committee (Pembela), the Malaysian Felda Settlers Welfare Organisation (PKWFM), the National Heritage Generation Organisation (Generasi) and other non-governmental organisations (NGOs), held outside the Parliament building this morning.
Kok said she is very disappointed with the protest and said the opposition party is being “unwise” in lending their support for such action. — Bernama
