
# Mum-of-five's 'embarrassment' at using food banks to feed children

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:32:15+00:00**

Author: **Amber Hicks, Shannon Hards, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mum-fives-embarrassment-using-food-20837166)

A mum has admitted to feeling "embarrassed" and a "failure" for having to rely on food banks to feed her five children and husband.
Heather, who has asked her surname not to be published, says the summer holidays are the hardest because she can't rely on school meals to feed her kids, reports Cornwall Live.
She will appear on new ITV documentary Exposure: Britain's Hidden Hunger tonight (Thursday).
The show follows three families who are struggling to feed their children at a time when in Britain, the world's fifth largest economy, an estimated 14 million people - including four million youngsters - are living in poverty.
 
Heather's husband, Mike, has a job in retail on £8.20 an hour but the couple can't afford to feed their brood on his wages and family benefits and are forced to resort to the food bank.
She said: "I think I’ve been reliant on the food bank every time the holidays have come for as long as I can remember. Without that I don’t know what we’d do.
"It’s either pay your bills or put food on the table and you really see that in the six weeks' holidays."
Mike added: "We don’t have any luxuries or anything like that.
"We don’t go out, we don’t have holidays, we don’t do anything, there’s no money for it, we are just getting by.
 
"I’m going to work as many hours as I can just to put food on the table, pay the bills, keep the debt collectors out the door, that’s all I’m doing but that in itself is empty."
He added: "I don’t want to be saying, ‘no, you can’t have that piece of bread because it needs to be for breakfast in the morning’ or whatever it is."
The couple admitted that they both felt humiliated to ask for support from the local food bank.
Mike said: "I don’t like going into the building because I feel embarrassed I suppose."
Heather added: "It’s a pride thing, even when I go to ask for vouchers, usually at my doctor’s, it’s like I check to see if anyone is around and I go under my breath, 'can I have some food bank vouchers please?'
 
"It’s something you don’t want people seeing."
Mike said: "It does feel embarrassing but we’ve got no choice. It makes me feel like an inch tall to think that I’m working and I’m taking food away from someone that may need it more but I know that we wouldn’t survive without it.
"We wouldn’t be able to provide every meal for our children."
Heather said she would like to obtain qualifications in journalism, enabling her to gain employment and provide for her family.
She added: "I don’t want to rely on the food bank. I want to be at a point where I don’t have to rely on the food bank because it makes you feel like a failure, it makes you feel like you aren’t providing for your children, which is a really horrible feeling."
Heather admitted that she was left hurt by several comments she has seen online since details were shared about the show.
She said: “I’m upset at the comments when people haven’t even seen the film yet and they don’t know me.
“Lots of low-income families are struggling and I took the chance to speak out about it so that everyone is aware.
“We are a working family but we get top-ups of certain benefits because we are a low-income family. We can’t help if my husband’s hours are low and he works all that he can.
“I’m in ill health so am struggling myself but now that my daughter has started school, I’ll be trying to get some work too.”
Speaking ahead of the show, Heather said: “I am nervous about tonight’s episode but it is nice to know I am helping people. I am trying to help people be aware that we are all embarrassed to use food banks but hopefully if someone talks about it the shame will go away.”
