
# ISIS bride and daughter to be brought back back from Turkey in 'secret mission'

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:30:33+00:00**

Author: **Brendan McFadden**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/isis-bride-daughter-brought-back-20806499)

An operation has been launched to return an ISIS bride to the UK along with her young daugter.
Lisa Smith, 38, travelled to Syria three years ago to join the terror death cult and it is now thought she is in the border area between Turkey and Syria with her two year-old daughter.
Now the Department of Foreign Affairs officials have been deployed to the border region of Turkey to assist the repatriation of the former Air Corps private, it is believed.
Members of the Defence Forces and the Army Ranger Wing are also understood to be assisting in the operation, the Irish Mirror reports .
It was reported yesterday that members of the Ranger Wing have been deployed to the region with the goal of repatriating Smith and her two-year-old daughter Rakeya.
 
But a breakthrough might not be imminent, as there are a number of complicating factors in the case.
It remains unclear if Smith wishes to return to Ireland. If she is repatriated, she will be the first Irish person brought home after joining ISIS.
Despite the reports, both the Defence Forces and the Department of Foreign Affairs last night refused to confirm any details regarding the operation, or whether it was taking place.
A statement from the Defence Forces said for reasons of operational security it does not comment on the “movements or disposition of personnel”.
   
A spokesperson for the Department of Foreign Affairs told the Irish Mirror that the office does not comment on individual cases.
Meanwhile, it was revealed yesterday that a family who travelled from Ireland to live under ISIS rule in Syria are believed to be back in the country.
The large family travelled from Ireland to Syria via Turkey following the same route as Smith. Sources familiar with the family claimed they left Ireland to live a “more Islamic life” and are believed to have been involved with notorious ISIS morality police “hisba”.
The family, who live in Dublin, are alleged to have connections with Smith but are now nervous about her potential arrival back to Ireland. Sources claim the father has expressed concern they will come under pressure from authorities here if she is repatriated.
The family, whose children are enrolled in Dublin schools, are believed to have lived inside ISIS territory and left shortly after Raqqa was taken by US-backed forces.
After travelling from the terror capital by paying smugglers, the family arrived in Turkey where, after being detained, they were deported back to Ireland.
Smith is believed to hold vital intelligence on identifying this family along with a woman of Asian origin who was also joined ISIS
