
# Expedia reveals Black Friday sale dates for discounts on flights and hotels

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:44:25+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Yates**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/expedia-reveals-black-friday-sale-17218265)

Travel website Expedia has released advice and early deals for Black Friday shoppers.
The biggest online shopping day of the year takes place on November 29 in 2019 and this includes discounts on flights and hotels.
Last year's Black Friday saw Expedia's best discount codes snapped up by customers looking for a bargain, so 2019 looks to be no different.
The site's advice to customers is to download its app, visit the Black Friday page at 9am on the day (November 29) to get your app coupon code or find deals on the page and enter the code at checkout.
This year the site is focusing on its app with customers who book their hotel or flight through it earning double Expedia Rewards points on their account.
Expedia says: "We will start posting new deals before the big day.
"Check on this Black Friday page regularly in order to stay up to date on the destinations on offer."
The travel site teased that customers could find flights to Orlando, a weekend getaway to France, hotel package deals to sandy beaches or snowy mountains across the whole of November.
If you want bag a deal ahead of Black Friday then its early bird sale kicks off on November 25, with the landing page being updated with daily deals each day.
Plus if you download the Expedia app on your phone you'll have the chance to receive a coupon for 75% off selected hotels.
To see current deals or to bookmark the page go to www.expedia.co.uk/blackfriday
Expedia has some deals already live on the Black Friday page.
This includes flight and hotel packages to destinations including New York (£477), Bangkok (£459), Tokyo (£602), Budapest (£162), Stockholm (£176) and Mexico City (£487).
The page will be updated regularly in the run up to the day, with Expedia's sale starting on November 25.
