
# Democrat Andy Beshear claims victory over Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin, a Trump ally

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:23:52+00:00**

Author: **Emily Larsen**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/kentucky-gov-matt-bevin-a-trump-ally-trails-democratic-rival-andy-beshear-in-reelection-bid)

Democratic Kentucky Attorney General Andy Beshear declared victory over Republican Gov. Matt Bevin in the state’s close gubernatorial election, a key win for Democrats in a state that President Trump won by nearly 30 points in 2016.
Bevin, however, said Tuesday he will not concede the race, citing "more than a few irregularities."
Beshear had 49.2% of the vote and Bevin received 48.9% on Tuesday with 100.0% of precincts reporting. Beshear lead by 4,658 votes. NBC News declared Beshear the contest's "apparent winner," but other outlets have declined to call the race.
Beshear declared victory over Bevin Tuesday night, saying that he expects the governor to "honor this election tonight."
Bevin has one week to file a request for recanvassing, a process in which the election boards re-check and re-report voting machine totals. He has until Nov. 13 to request a recount, a similar process to recanvassing managed by an election judge, and to request a new election.
An October poll from Mason-Dixon Polling & Research found Bevin and Beshear in a dead heat with 49% each, indicating to Democrats that one of their own could win against an unpopular incumbent in a Trump state.
Bevin’s approval rating has long been underwater due to disapproval over state policies and his abrasive style. During the last days of the election, he tried to redirect attention to national issues by casting himself as a Trump ally in the midst of impeachment hearings. Trump campaigned for Bevin in Kentucky on Monday night, where supporters standing behind the president wore “Read The Transcript” T-shirts.
While some Democrats may point to a Bevin loss as foreshadowing for Trump in 2020, Bevin was a uniquely unpopular Republican. Every other statewide Republican candidate in Kentucky won their races Tuesday. The race is, however, a cautionary tale for Republicans counting on aggressive Trump-style governing and campaigning to carry them to victory in 2020.
Beshear secured Cincinnati, Ohio-adjacent Cambel and Kenton counties, which Bevin won by double digits in 2015, continuing Democrats’ 2018 trend of flipping suburban areas.
Rural counties in the eastern part of the state that Bevin won comfortably in 2015 also voted for Beshear.
The close race was full of personal swipes between the candidates.
Beshear, 41 and son of Bevin’s predecessor, former Gov. Steve Beshear, campaigned in part against Bevin’s handling of tense fights over teacher pension reform. One Beshear attack ad featured Bevin calling teachers “selfish” and “ignorant” and having a “thug mentality.” Bevin made those comments during teacher walkouts and protests earlier this year, and he said the comments were taken out of context.
Bevin, 52, hit Beshear for his law firm's work defending Purdue Pharma, the manufacturer of painkiller OxyContin that was often blamed for helping accelerate the opioid epidemic. A Bevin ad claimed that Beshear "personally profited" from the case, but Beshear said that he did not make money from the $24 million settlement and was not on the team that litigated the case.
The race could also have implications for Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a villain among Democrats for blocking legislation passed by the House. A Bevin loss would encourage Democratic hopes of defeating McConnell at the ballot box in 2020 and breaking a Republican majority in the Senate, which could make way for sweeping national Democratic legislation.
