
# Disco Elysium's Voice Acting Is Good Enough Not To Skip

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Ian Walker**

Original: [Kotaku Australia](https://www.kotaku.com.au/2019/11/disco-elysiums-voice-acting-is-good-enough-not-to-skip/)

I recently picked up Disco Elysium, an introspective detective game that launched on PC a couple of weeks ago. Like many people who have sat down with the game, I’ve found it very engrossing. It’s so engrossing that I’m not barreling through the dialogue as fast as I can read it, which I usually do. A lot of that has to do with the voice acting.
I’ll admit that I haven’t given voice acting as much respect as it deserves over my several years of gaming. I can read pretty fast, so I often speed through text, reducing spoken lines to a collection of interrupted syllables. After spending some time with Disco Elysium, however, I find myself slowing down to fully experience the voice acting rather than treating it as disposable window dressing en route to the next encounter.
Disco Elysium opens in blackness, with the main character stumbling through the interminable haze of a hangover. It’s here that players are introduced to several aspects of the broken protagonist’s inner thoughts, which forms the basis of the game’s main narrative hook. The character’s thoughts are comprised of several different voices. The first of these is the Ancient Reptilian Brain, a very real evolutionary holdover of human anatomy that handles lower functions like breathing and balance as well as instinctual behaviours.
In Disco Elysium, the Ancient Reptilian Brain has a voice that drips with malice and a gravelly heft that conjures images of primordial creatures with just one goal in mind: survival. It welcomes you into the nothingness, discouraging any higher thoughts that might interfere with the void’s embrace. The conversation soon expands to include the Limbic System, another aspect of human brain structure that, in real life, supports functions like emotion and memory. Here, it’s a sneering reminder of the protagonist’s pain, both physical and otherwise. As the player gets closer and closer to escaping the main character’s stupor, the Limbic System warns of what awaits in wakefulness with a cowering hiss that feels contagious. Eventually, the detective wakes up, and Disco Elysium begins in earnest.
