
# A Thrilling Draw And A Missed Opportunity: What We Learned From Real Madrid’s La Liga Clash With Real Betis

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Tom Sanderson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/tomsanderson/2019/11/02/a-thrilling-draw-and-a-missed-opportunity-what-we-learned-from-real-madrids-la-liga-clash-with-real-betis/)

Failing to capitalise on Barcelona’s slip at Levante, Real Madrid did not retake the lead in La Liga after a thrilling draw against Real Betis at the Santiago Bernabeu but here’s what we learned from the clash anyway. Zidane does not ‘have a team’
At least not the one that AS claimed he had decided on before the weekend. It was meant to have been completed by Fede Valverde and Rodrygo, yet while the young Brazilian started, the Uruguayan did not and had his place taken by the returning Luka Modric. Ferland Mendy was also a surprise start in favour of Marcelo at left back.

        Eden Hazard will have still received a confidence boost from his goal
      
It was ruled out by VAR, yet with the attempt the Chelsea signing clasically cut in and drilled his shot into the bottom corner while showing the kind of quality that brought him to the 13-time European kings.

        He was Madrid’s best player in the opening half hour
      
As well as Toni Kroos. But Betis defended well to keep the potential Liga leaders at bay. Shots were blocked and final passes were intercepted by Rubi’s visitors, who fought for their lives.

        Rodrygo and Carvajal linked well
      
They had a chemistry, covered for one another, and almost set up Karim Benzema in the 36th minute. In the 41st, they were part of a lovely move in which the Spaniard couldn’t quite find a white-shirted head in the box on the break.

        Real Madrid were unlucky not to finish the first half a goal up
      
Benzema chested down Modric’s lovely ball into the path of Ramos, who looked certain to blast home were it not for the heroics of Joel Robles at point blank range.

        Marcelo has nothing to worry about with Mendy
      
Not just yet. His performance was nothing special and lacking the attacking edge Marcelo offers. In the 64th minute, he had Real Madrid’s best chance of the second half up to that point when breaking clean free on goal, yet he could only convert wide. That being said, a game-long battle with Emerson, the recently-called senior Brazil international, was one of the most fascinating on the pitch.

        Vinicius still has a good understanding of how to play with Benzema
      
Replacing Rodrygo shortly after Mendy’s miss, the 19-year-old almost assisted the Frenchman in the 72nd minute and was set free by him with his own run minutes later. He was brought down in the box, though not awarded a penalty. Generally speaking, his impact was positive and he provided a spark. Robles somehow denied him in the 91st minute, again from point blank range as with Ramos.

        Zidane did not use his substitutions well
      
And for that matter, only used one when, as mentioned, swapping one Brazilian wonderkid for the other.

        Madrid failed to take the lead in La Liga
      
But not for want of trying. It wasn’t that they were poor, and instead more because Betis were excellent at holding the fort with Robles rightfully-receiving the King of the Match gong. The visitors didn’t come to park the bus either, and had a go at their hosts who they had beaten at the Bernabeu in their previous two trips to the Spanish capital.
Madrid notched their fourth draw of the season to draw level on points with leaders Barcelona, and could already be a considerable distance ahead had they not been restricted to so many stalemates.
While the Blaugrana have been beaten three times in 2019/2020, and on each occasion on the road, remember that Los Blancos have only slipped once to Mallorca.
Now, they go into their must-win Champions League clash with Galatasaray confident after having kept their third consecutive clean sheet.
