
# Days after husband Anand Piramal called rude, Isha Ambani caught in candid moment at Mumbai airport with Dad Mukesh Ambani

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:34:27+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/days-after-husband-anand-piramal-called-rude-isha-ambani-caught-in-candid-moment-at-mumbai-airport-dad-mukesh-ambani/271387/)

Isha Ambani, daughter of India’s richest business couple Mukesh and Nita Ambani, recently trended on the internet after her husband Anand Piramal faced flak from social media users for being rude during the Diwali party. The daughter of India’s business tycoon was then also in the news after it emerged that she had been using a ‘private’ Instagram account. This week, she was caught in a candid moment by Mumbai’s paparazzi at Kalina airport in Santacruz.
Dressed in their casual best, Mukesh Ambani, Isha and her husband Anand Piramal snapped by paparazzi as they made their way out of the airport. While Mukesh Ambani sported a white kurta-pyjama as he walked out of the Kalina airport in Santacruz, Isha was seen in a grey pullover with track pants and trainers. As for Anand, he looked uber cool in a grey t-shirt.
The highlight of the photo was how Isha was caught in a candid moment as she was seen yawning while walking behind her father.
Mukesh Ambani was recently seen attending Amitabh Bachchan’s Diwali bash with wife Nita, son Anant and to-be daughter-in-law Radhika Merchant.
Anand and Isha were last seen together during Nita Ambani’s Diwali party for the family-owned IPL team Mumbai Indians. Anand had come under considerable flak for ‘running away’ leaving his wife Isha and parents alone.
Days later, fashion designer Sabyasachi had revealed that the maroon velvet zari blouse with a pista green benarasi saree worn by Isha for the Diwali party was designed by him. Sabyasachi had also gone on to disclose that Isha also held a private Instagram account, which was followed by several Bollywood biggies such as Priyanka Chopra, Mira Rajput, Sonam Kapoor, Shraddha Kapoor, Karan Johar, Arjun Kapoor and Parineeti Chopra.
Isha Ambani and Anand Piramal got married in December last year.
