
# Epic Store October update overhauls storefront and adds basic features

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis White**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/epic-store-october-update-overhauls-storefront-and-adds-basic-features/)


        Epic Store users, begrudgingly or not, rejoice! The Epic Store October update has overhauled the storefront to add some necessary features.
      
Epic Games’ proprietary storefront is always at the center of some controversy, whether that’s the acquisition of exclusive titles like Shenmue 3 or not, the storefront has indeed lacked basic features.
With the removal of Epic’s developmental roadmap, alongside a delay of upcoming features, many wondered when the company would implement much-needed additions to the store.
The Epic Store October update focuses on the discoverability of games. With 187 games now available on the digital store, it was becoming harder to find interesting titles outside of big acquisitions. This update fixes that.
With new discoverability tabs for new releases, free games, top sellers and more, it’s easier to find games on the Epic Store. It’s a big deal. With a more optimised backend to alleviate high traffic periods, the store is also more stable.
Of course, this update will be followed with the addition of more features. While cloud saves are thankfully already a thing, the development team is also working on some more essential features.
Wishlists are coming in the future, allowing customers to get a price drop notification for titles of their choosing. An updated library is in the pipeline – take that, Steam – alongside OpenCritic implementation.
