
# Strategy Analytics: Q3 2019 tablet PC market fell by 4% - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:13:07+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/06/strategy-analytics-q3-2019-tablet-pc-market-fell-by-4/)

Rate this post
No doubt, the tablet PC market is not as lucrative as it used to be. In fact, it appears that every year, there is a decline in the sales of tablet PCs. Many major manufacturers are either inactive or passive in the tablet PC market. The continuous decline of tablet PCs shipment is related to the impact of large-screen smartphones. With the preponderance of 6-inch+ smartphones, it appears that we now have more display and there is really no need for more. According to Strategy Analytics latest report, the global tablet PC market in Q3 2019 fell by 4% year-on-year. The global market only managed 38.2 million units in the quarter. 
According to the report, in the third quarter of 2019, Amazon’s tablet sales increased by 141% year-on-year. It has a market share of 14%, thanks to its strong ecosystem and low retail prices. In addition, it also has an updated product portfolio and a Prime Day promotion in July. This means that it is now the world’s second-largest tablet PC manufacturer, at least for Q3 2019. If you are thinking about the top position, there is little or no competition for that spot. Apple has a strong grip on the global tablet PC market and has been top for a long time. 
According to Strategy Analytics, the top five global tablet manufacturers by market share are Apple (26.5%), Amazon (13.9%), Samsung (13.2%), Huawei (8.1%), and Lenovo (6.6%).

        Via
      
