
# Twitter reacts as Ikram Alikhil’s ‘brainfade’ moment leads to epic run-out

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:28:50+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/twitter-reacts-as-ikram-alikhils-brainfade-moment-leads-to-epic-run-out?utm_medium=rss)


        Of cricketers having moments of absolute ‘brain fade’ and that leading to significant consequences has always been a part of the game, a part that adds some spice to the process. Something similar occurred with Ikram Alikhil making a blunder during the first ODI between West Indies and Afghanistan.
      
Batting first in the first fixture of the series opener, Afghanistan’s batsmen looked comfortable as they were on 124/2 at the end of the 26th over. But what happened on the third delivery of the 27zth over, in a sheer moment of distraction, would not only cause a wicket but eventually slow down Afghanistan’s innings.
As Roston Chase bowled to the Rahmat Shah, Afghanistan’s most consistent who was on 49*, he took a single and completed his fifty. But within seconds everyone looked alarmed as they were checking for a run-out. 
In a moment of nothing but being absolutely irresponsibility, Alikhil was so eager to congratulate his partner that he just started to walk towards him after completing the first run. He didn’t notice it but the ball was still in Shai Hope's hands and the West Indies wicketkeeper made no mistake in removing the bails and appealed and umpire Paul Reiffel, who in turn sent the signal it upstairs. Replays made it clear that Alikhil was out for a 62-ball 58 and West Indies were able to break the steady 100-plus partnership.

        Here's what people are talking about the incident on Twitter:
      
