
# Suspected hitman drug lord arrested over Mormon massacre pictured for first time

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:04:11+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/suspected-hitman-drug-lord-arrested-20825702)

A suspected drug lord under arrest over the massacre of nine Americans has been pictured for the first time.
Three mothers and six children were brutally gunned down in northern Mexico by cartel gunmen on Monday.
The precise motivation for the sickening attack is still unknown.
The suspect - named only as Pablo - was found late on Tuesday in the border town of Agua Prieta near Arizona.
He was holding two hostages who were gagged and tied inside a vehicle, Mexico's Agency for Criminal Investigation said. 
 
Authorities said the suspect was also found in the possession of four assault rifles and ammunition, as well as various large vehicles including a bullet-proof SUV.
The hostages are not believed to be related to the nine LeBaron family victims killed on Monday while traveling in a convoy of three SUVs  in Sonora state.
On Tuesday grieving family members of the victims visited the scene of the murders which have sparked international outcry.
Investigators are reportedly still trying to determine how the arrested suspect is connected to the brutal slayings.
It has been suggested that cartel members may have mistaken the LeBaron family convoy's large SUVs for those of gang rivals.
The killers  were apparently members of the Juarez drug cartel and its armed wing, La Linea - 'The Line' - whose gunmen had entered Sinaloa cartel territory and set up an armed outpost.
The cartel apparently wanted to send a message that it controlled the road into Chihuahua.
It was only after the first vehicle was shot up and set afire that 50 or 60 Sinaloa cartel gunmen showed up to see what had happened, according to reports from Mexico.
The gunned-down mothers were driving in separate vehicles with their children from the La Mora religious community where they live, which is a decades-old settlement in Sonora state founded as part of an offshoot of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Rhonita Miller and four of her children - her six-month-old twins, Titus and Tiana, her 10-year-old daughter Krystal and 12-year-old son Howard - were all killed.
Another two mothers, Dawna Langford and Christina Langford Johnson, as well as Dawna's sons, Trevor, 11, and Rogan, 3, were also all killed.
Eight children survived the ambush.
Those surviving children not only escaped the drug cartel gunmen who killed their mothers but managed to hide in the brush for hours until help arrived.
