
# Philip Hammond to step down as Tory MP after 22 years

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:38:14+00:00**

Author: **Rajeev Syal**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/05/philip-hammond-to-step-down-as-tory-mp-after-22-years)


        Former chancellor clashed repeatedly with Boris Johnson over Brexit
      
Philip Hammond, the Conservative chancellor until four months ago, is standing down as an MP of 22 years after clashing repeatedly with Boris Johnson over Brexit.
The MP for Runnymede and Weybridge, who lost the party whip last month after opposing leaving the EU without a deal, said he had been forced to step down because he would lose his party membership if he stood against an official Conservative candidate.
His resignation comes as another Tory rebel, the former justice secretary David Gauke, accused the government of breaking a promise to give MPs a vote on extending the post-Brexit transition period to avoid a no-deal Brexit.
On Tuesday night, Johnson officially launched the Conservatives’ general election campaign, positioning himself as someone who would “cheer, not sneer” entrepreneurs, while painting his opponent Jeremy Corbyn as someone who demonises billionaires with “relish and a vindictiveness”.
In an article in the Telegraph, Johnson laid out his party’s manifesto priorities – Brexit, the NHS, education and law and order – all areas his messaging has been focusing on since he was elected leader in the summer.
Johnson claimed Brexit would unlock billions in investment for the UK while Labour would delay it further. He promised to build 40 new hospitals, increase funding for every school and put more police on the street who would use stop-and-search powers more frequently.
Hammond, 63, is the latest of the 21 Tory rebels, who voted in September for the Benn act averting a no-deal Brexit to announce they are standing down.
In a letter to his constituents, he said he could only stand as a candidate if he was prepared to oppose an official Tory party candidate, but was not prepared to do so.
“I am saddened to find myself in this position after 45 years of Conservative party membership, 22 years of service as a Conservative MP, 12 years as an opposition frontbench spokesman and over nine years as a cabinet minister, including serving as defence secretary, foreign secretary and chancellor of the exchequer.
“If I fight the general election as an independent conservative candidate against an official Conservative party candidate, I would cease to be a member of the party.”
In a veiled threat that he intended to continue to oppose hardline Conservatives who are trying to force one nation Tories out of the party, Hammond said he would continue to argue for a “broad-based, forward-looking, pro-business and pro-markets centre-right party”.
“I will remain as a party member and I will continue to make the case for doing whatever is necessary to deliver a negotiated close future trade and security partnership between the UK and the EU,” he wrote.
Gauke’s accusation of a broken promise was in response to the prime minister’s official spokesman who answered “a simple no” when asked on Tuesday if MPs would get a vote on prolonging the transition. The spokesman insisted there would be no need for an extension because the UK and the EU would have agreed a free trade deal by December 2020.
Gauke responded on Twitter: “Looks like the Conservative message is ‘we’ll be out on WTO terms by 2021’. I have to say – that is reckless.”
Another rebel who has left the Tories, the former education secretary Justine Greening, said on Tuesday she would find it difficult to vote for the party under Johnson.
“I certainly don’t want to see us getting on with what I think would be a very damaging deal for Britain. So it would be very hard for me to vote for the Conservatives, if I’m looking at what they stand for on Brexit,” she told Radio 5 Live.
Anne Milton, another of the 21 MPs, announced on Tuesday that she would stand as an independent candidate in her Surrey seat of Guildford, where she has a 17,000 majority. “I wrote to the PM yesterday to tell him I felt unable to be a Conservative candidate,” she said.
Several of the still-whipless MPs say they do not plan to stand again in the election, including Ken Clarke, who will step down after just short of 50 years in the Commons, and Rory Stewart, who has launched a bid to become mayor of London as an independent.
In a separate development, the Conservatives have come under fire for misleadingly editing a video of Labour’s Keir Starmer, to make him appear unable to answer a question on Brexit.
On Wednesday, Johnson is expected to head to Buckingham Palace for an audience with the Queen before returning to parliament to announce the formal start of the general election.
Later, he will appear at the Conservatives’ first official election rally at which he will repeat his slogan that the party must “get Brexit done” by changing “this blockading parliament”.
