
# Nick Offerman Thinks Everyone Should Know How to Change a Tire

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ashley Keegan**

Original: [AskMen](https://www.askmen.com/news/entertainment/nick-offerman-thinks-everyone-should-know-how-to-change-a-tire.html)

Nick Offerman, known as the snarky yet loveable Ron Swanson from “Parks and Recreation,” recently sat down for an all-you-can-eat spicy wing session with Hot Ones host Sean Evans.
RELATED: Nick Offerman Taps Into Inner Ron Swanson With Lagavulin Single Malt Scotch
The pair dove right into the good stuff — hot wings and hot topics — beginning with the similarities and differences between Offerman and the iconic character he brought to life. The comedian was asked to share how much he related to a few classic Swanson zingers, including  one on masculinity and personal responsibility:
"Give a man a fish, and you feed him for a day. Don't teach a man to fish, and you feed yourself. He's a grown man and fishing isn't that hard."
Though Offerman says he differs quite a bit from his Swanson character in real life, he does find some relation to this line. "I think that makes a lot of sense," he said. "We're too mollycoddling in this modern age of consumerism where you are never left on your own to learn to survive." 
The pair delved further into the dichotomy of modern masculinity as a way of distraction from their scorched mouths. Offerman recalls a time he met Mr. T, admiring the actor's surprising combination of both toughness and sensitivity.
