
# US Sanctions Against Iran Foster International Terrorism - Iranian First Vice President

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:57:51+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/world/201911021077205880-us-sanctions-against-iran-foster-international-terrorism---iranian-first-vice-president/)


        TASHKENT (Sputnik) - US sanctions imposed on Iran will push the development of global terrorism in the future, which contradicts UN principles and a responsible approach is needed, Iranian First Vice President Eshaq Jahangiri said Saturday.
      
The vice president added that his country was ready to facilitate and participate in the process of economic development as well as to assist other countries, and referred to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) on Iran's nuclear program.
Jahangiri stressed that Iran attached great importance to the issues of regional cooperation precisely from the point of view of maintaining peace, countering terrorism and international crime. According to him, regional organizations play a big role in the further development of a multilateral approach to resolving complicated issues.
The JCPOA was signed in 2015 by Iran, China, France, Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States and Germany together with the European Union. It required Iran to scale back its nuclear program and severely downgrade its uranium reserves in exchange for sanctions relief. In 2018, the United States abandoned its conciliatory policy on Iran, withdrawing from the JCPOA and hitting Iranian petroleum industries with sanctions, prompting criticism from its allies in Europe.
The SCO is an intergovernmental organization, currently comprising eight member states, namely China, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. It also has four observer states such as Afghanistan, Belarus, Iran and Mongolia, while Armenia, Azerbaijan, Cambodia, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Turkey are the organization’s dialogue partners.
