
# Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain will be at front of the queue of Liverpool stars fighting for Club World Cup spot

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:39:54+00:00**

Author: **Andy Dunn, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/andy-dunn/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/alex-oxlade-chamberlain-front-queue-20820785)

The battle for places has started, the scramble for selection is underway.
A first class seat on the big bird to the warmth of Doha? Or a spot on the bus to the chill of Birmingham?
A Tuesday night in a Midlands suburb? Or a week of luxury in Qatar?
The prospect of a Club World Cup winners’ medal? Or a slog in the cold for a place in the semi-final of the Carabao Cup?
There are plenty of names already on the boarding passes to the Arabian Gulf.
The A-listers will be there, surely. You know who they are.
But the likes of Joe Gomez, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Naby Keita and even Divock Origi will be wondering if they will be going with the kids down the M6 or with the elite to one of FIFA’s junkets.
It is a farcical situation, of course.
Liverpool have come up with a convincing explanation for why they felt this was the best option - involving the possibility of FA Cup replays and other such unknowns - but it just does not feel right.
It is happening, though, and it will be fascinating to see how it works out.
Jurgen Klopp does have the option of fielding players against Aston Villa on the evening of Tuesday, December 17 and then flying them out to Qatar.
If Liverpool win their Club World Cup semi-final on the Wednesday, the final is not until the Saturday.
But if you are senior player and not in the original party for Doha, it will be a blow to the ego.
You can guess where Oxlade-Chamberlain will want to be.
And you know for certain where he really wants to be long-term… in a more prominent role in this Liverpool squad.
There have been signs in recent weeks - certainly from the bench at Villa Park on Saturday - that he could soon be playing a more influential part.
And those signs were clearly visible again.
Klopp might well have reservations about Oxlade-Chamberlain’s understanding of his system and maybe even about his work-rate.
But there is no doubting his ingenuity and his eye for goal when played in a more advanced role.
He certainly looked a character full of confidence even if it was in a pedestrian-paced contest.
And he certainly looked a player who will believe he should be at a Club World Cup rather than a Carabao kickabout come December.
