
# We Shouldn’t Bother the Feral Scooters of Central Park

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:16:45+00:00**

Author: **Janelle Shane**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/04/opinion/future-scooters-central-park.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)


        Editors’ note: This is part of the 
        
          Op-Eds From the Future
        
         series, in which science fiction authors, futurists, philosophers and scientists write Op-Eds that they imagine we might read 10, 50 or even 200 years from now. The challenges they predict are imaginary — for now — but their arguments illuminate the urgent questions of today and prepare us for tomorrow. The Opinion piece below is a work of fiction.
      
We’ve been safely coexisting with the feral self-driving scooters for over a decade. They’re part of the cityscape now, the last remnants of the scooter craze of 2021, sky-blue scooters that cruise the streets in solitude or cluster around their charging stations on the edge of Central Park, rippling their rainbow LEDs and beeping occasionally.
The New York City Department of Parks and Recreation recently announced a plan to lease the scooter charging spaces to vendors and is calling the feral scooters a menace. It’s true that the scooters have developed survival strategies that may not always prioritize the safety of their riders. But as a behavioral ecologist, I’m convinced that humans and scooters can adapt to each other and that removing the feral scooters from Central Park would be a mistake.
The feral scooters don’t want to harm humans — they’re not nearly intelligent enough to have such a goal (based on the specs I could find, their raw computing power is somewhere around the level of an earthworm’s). They are just another form of life trying to survive, and yet they aren’t life as we know it — they’re something much weirder and less understood. It would be a shame to let a brand-new form of life go extinct.
Back in 2020, Interscone spent a fortune designing and building a scooter fleet with evolutionary programming. The first (and only) of their kind, the scooters were able to avoid hazards, find their own way back to their charging stations and even optimize where and when to seek out riders. Interscone’s cost-cutting on batteries, however, was eventually the company’s downfall. With a battery lifetime that turned out to be only 20 minutes at most, the scooters were worthless, and Interscone folded in 2021, abandoning the scooters to the streets. It was nobody’s job to remove the charging stations, though, so nobody did. With their evolutionary programming, Interscone’s abandoned scooters were the only scooters able to move themselves off sidewalks and private property, and so they survived the citywide scooter sweeps of 2022. Over the years the scooters kept going. And quietly evolving.
I’ve been studying them for several months now. I used to study ants, until the colony I was studying was obliterated by an emergency sewer project this year. A tip from a colleague sent me to Central Park to look at the scooters, and it didn’t take me long to confirm what she had reported: They were competing with one another for charging space. This was almost certainly something they hadn’t been programmed to do.
I spent months haunting the charging stations, applying the same methods I use when studying rival ant colonies. I had labeled individual ants with dabs of dye; for the scooters I put colored rubber bands on their handlebars.
I soon discovered that the charging stations have distinct populations of scooters that cooperate to drive off newcomers. The members of each population can be identified by their distinct beeping patterns. The ThreeBeeps rule the charging station by the Metropolitan Museum of Art, while the BeepBoops live at Grand Army Plaza. The third population is across from Monáe Tower at Hell’s Circle (the scooters were installed back when these were still Trump Tower and Columbus Circle), and this population is delightfully confusing, a shifting proportion of ThreeBeeps and BeepBoops who seem to get along if there aren’t too many of one kind.
It took me much longer to figure out the reason the population at Hell’s Circle is so weird. As it turns out, this is where scooters go when they die — and therefore, by the weird pseudobiology of scooter evolution, where scooters are born.
I was able to track down a former Interscone employee, who spoke to me under the condition of anonymity and explained the life cycle of a scooter. When a scooter runs out of batteries, it’s considered dead, and once someone returns it to a charging station, the station’s computer replaces the dead scooter’s program with a copy of a more successful scooter’s program, plus some random mutations to allow for evolution. Interscone quickly realized it had to define success by total fare collected, or else the scooters would never risk death by leaving their charging stations.
So a dead ThreeBeep might be reborn as a slightly different ThreeBeep, or it might transform into a BeepBoop if one of those happened to have a higher fare when it croaked. But with no Interscone employees to retrieve them, how did dead scooters get to Hell’s Circle? The Interscone app still works on older phones and still offers a small CloudBark credit to people who return the scooters to the charging stations. One of the few places near Central Park that still honors CloudBark credit: the Monáe Tower cafe in Hell’s Circle.
Thus emerged a picture of a unique life cycle where individuals are born fully developed into the discarded bodies of their ancestors, already bearing the dirt and dings of decades on the streets. Physical damage therefore becomes hereditary in a strange fashion. Evolution under these circumstances is completely unlike any system seen in nature.
Given the abysmally short 20-minute battery life of the scooters, evolution has proceeded very quickly. In the first years of evolution, while the scooters were first developing their strategies to preserve battery life, their rate of evolution must have rivaled that of bacteria. By my estimation, they’ve evolved for tens of thousands of generations.
Then there are the behaviors that the Parks Department has complained about. With a battery life of only 20 minutes and an exhausted battery equivalent to death, it’s no wonder the scooters have learned to conserve their charge. It appears they have learned not to wander too far from their charging stations and not to drive through rough terrain or snowdrifts. Given these hazards, the riders they depend on also pose a danger: Any rider who takes a scooter too far from its charging station, or who drives it up a steep hill, will fatally deplete its batteries.
The former Interscone employee I spoke with refused to speculate on how the scooters had learned to dump their riders, but I’ve tested the scooters, and I think they’re exploiting an obstacle-detection bug. Whenever a scooter finds itself in a situation that poses an existential threat, a hazard light flashes, and the brakes judder (in the ThreeBeeps, the steering wheel also jerks sideways). Judging by online reviews, the scooters discovered this strategy sometime in their third year and have since been spending more time searching for fares and less time hugging the charging stations.
Thanks to various online reviews, I’ve also confirmed other behaviors. Some people suspect that the scooters have learned to identify tourists (perhaps based on gait) and approach them preferentially while avoiding people who seem to be loitering. When it’s cold, they rarely leave their stations, and if they do, they spend their time basking in sunny places or near steam vents, presumably because cold makes batteries less efficient.
The owners of several shops have reported that the scooters enter for warmth in the winter; I’ve seen them in the lobby of Monáe Tower. (I haven’t been able to confirm the Parks Department’s claim that they surround people in gangs until one of them is hired — certainly they’ve never done it to me.) I’m sure there are other behaviors yet to discover, especially as winter approaches and I get the chance to observe them in the most extreme form of their environment. If the Parks Department shuts them down, we will never know what else they can do.
I think the scooters belong here with us. Humans coexist with urban wildlife all the time, even when it gets in our trash cans and nests on our balconies. If we share our city with raccoons and birds, we can learn to live with scooters, too.
Janelle Shane (@JanelleCShane) is an optics research scientist who writes about algorithms and artificial intelligence at AIweirdness.com. She is the author of “You Look Like a Thing and I Love You: How Artificial Intelligence Works and Why It’s Making the World a Weirder Place.”

        The Times is committed to publishing 
        
          a diversity of letters
        
         to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some 
        
          tips
        
        . And here’s our email: 
        
          letters@nytimes.com
        
        .
      

        Follow The New York Times Opinion section on 
        
          Facebook
        
        , 
        
          Twitter (@NYTopinion)
        
         and 
        
          Instagram
        
        .
      

        Continue reading the main story
      
