
# Neil Lennon makes Celtic fan call as he begs supporters not to ruin reputation

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott McDermott, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/scott-mcdermott/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/neil-lennon-makes-celtic-fan-20799305)

Neil Lennon says Celtic fans’ offensive banners aren’t helping the club’s reputation in Europe.
The Hoops were charged by UEFA for the third time this season following the Europa League win over Lazio last month.
That was for a banner unfurled by the Green Brigade which read ‘F*** off Lazio’ in Italian and another that resembled an emblem used by a left-wing terrorist organisation.
Celtic were also carpeted for illicit chanting and will find out their punishment on November 21. But gaffer Lennon is worried Celtic’s reputation on the continent will be tarnished if it continues.
Ahead of the return game in Rome on Thursday, with Hoops fans urged not to wear club colours in the Italian capital, Lennon said: “In the main, we’ve got a great reputation for travelling in Europe and I want that to continue.
“We want the fans to go and enjoy the experience and be careful.
“I don’t think there’s any animosity between the two clubs. It’s something separate from football and we want to quell that as quickly as possible before we go there.
“We should be trying to make friends while we’re in Italy, rather than create animosity.
“I’m not going to criticise our fans because in the main, they’re good – but the banners don’t help. I can’t speak on behalf of the people with the banners but it doesn’t do the club any good.”
Italian fans have a bad reputation for racist behaviour and Lennon says he’ll go on the advice of UEFA and club officials on what to do if Celtic’s players are abused on Thursday.
He said: “There are protocols in place. Whether I need to speak to the players, I’ll take a gauge off our club officials on that.
“There’s a meeting on the morning of the game with the referees, fourth official and UEFA delegates so we’ll get a steer from that.
“Then, if I need to speak to the players, I will.”
Celtic first fell foul of UEFA in August when the club was fined £11,000 after fans set off flares and threw objects during their 4-1 win over AIK in Stockholm.
When more pyrotechnics were set off before their Group E opener win over Cluj, UEFA hit the Hoops with a £10,400 fine.
