
# ISL 2019-20 | Goa played very well in different circumstances, says Sergio Lobera

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:03:38+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/01/isl-2019-20-goa-played-very-well-in-different-circumstances-says-sergio-lobera?utm_medium=rss)


        FC Goa head coach Sergio Lobera has stated that his team has played very well in different circumstances ahead of their first away match against NorthEast United in Guwahati. Apart from that, the Spanish coach has heaped praise of his Indian players, who have really stepped up this season.
      
With four points in two matches, FC Goa will travel to Guwahati to face an in-form NorthEast United FC at the Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium on Friday. The Highlanders also have four points so far, after drawing away against the mighty Bengaluru before having a home win against Odisha FC.
Goa thrashed Chennaiyin for 3-0 in the opening match and were held to a draw against champions Bengaluru at home, and all this without the likes of Edu Bedia, and Hugo Bumous in the side. And a visibly happy Sergio Lobera expressed his happiness with the results stating that his team played well in different circumstances while also praising the Indian players.
“I am very happy with our first match against Chennaiyin because I think the team played very well in different circumstances. Only three foreign players, some players injured, but I’m very proud of my players. The second match I think was not a good match for us.” said Lobera in the pre-match press conference, ISL website reported.
“We suffered a lot against Bengaluru. In the first half, we didn’t have the ball or kept the possession. For us, this way is not good. But to get one point, I think is good for us because of the circumstances of the match. Every game is different. I think the (NorthEast United fixture) is going to be a very difficult match against a very good team. They have very experienced players and I think it is going to be a difficult match for us.” Lobera added.
Lobera had surprised everyone with eight Indian players in the starting eleven against Chennaiyin FC in their season opener, where the likes of Brandon Fernandes, Seiminlen Doungel, and Jackichand Singh really raised their game. And the Spanish coach did not forget to appreciate the Indian clutch.
“I think it’s very important for us (to have Indian players of a good level in the team). I am very happy with my Indian players. This is the third season I’m working with some Indian players. We only signed two new Indian players. I think, they are not only the future but also the present. I think the level of the Indian players is very good.” said Lobera.
“I am very proud of my team. It’s possible for foreign players to help improve the level of the team and the level of the Indian players. I am very happy with the level of Indian players and it’s not necessary to find excuses about the loss through suspension or injuries of foreign players. The level of the team is good.” the Spaniard added,
Lobera also hailed former NorthEast United player Doungel, who is playing an important part in Lobera's style of play. Goa signed the Manipur player from Kerala Blasters last summer and so far, he has been a revelation.
“I think Len is a very good player. We signed him because in our style, the profile of Len is very good. It’s possible for him to play in different positions. He’s a very competitive player and technically, he is good.” said the Goan Coach.
“Sometimes when you play against your ex team, there is extra motivation. And sometimes, it’s not good. The most important thing for me is Len and all my players to understand that the team comes first and is the most important thing. It’s not possible to win one match in this competition only with individuality. Len can help us a lot during the season and not only this match.” added the 42-year-old.
FC Goa's sensational teenager goalkeeper Muhammed Nawaz, who was the only teenage player retained by any team in this ISL, also spoke about his life at the club. “I feel good to play with many big names, big players. For me, it’s kind of a special thing. I can experience a lot. Last season was a good experience. I learned many things from many big goalkeepers, playing against them and playing with seniors of my team. I am still learning and I hope to keep my best in the coming matches as well."
“I didn’t put extra hours into (being comfortable with the ball at my feet) because when I started playing, I started with my feet as well. My coaches asked me to use my feet as well. When I started growing, I already started using my feet. It’s a habit from childhood that I’m using. I don’t work extra hours (for it).” added the 19-year-old.
