
# Scottish drugs death taskforce faces complaint from Labour MSP over inappropriate conduct

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Hutcheon, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/paul-hutcheon/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/labour-msp-makes-complaint-drugs-20818341)

A senior Labour MSP has made a formal complaint about “inappropriate” conduct by the chair of the SNP Government’s drugs deaths taskforce.
Monica Lennon has claimed Professor Catriona Matheson tried to “censor” and “gag” her after she called for Ministers to declare a national emergency.
Writing to Minister Joe Fitzpatrick, she blasted: “Individuals cannot behave in such a manner and expect to carry the confidence of MSPs and the wider public.”
Matheson responded: “I have discussed this with Scottish Government colleagues and feel this is simply an unwarranted and unnecessary distraction from the important issues we are trying to address through the Task Force.”
The Daily Record launched a ground-breaking campaign after figures revealed a 27 per cent increase in drug deaths.
The SNP Government set up a taskforce, chaired by Matheson, and an increasing number of politicians have backed our demand for the decriminalisation of illegal substances.
Lennon has also called for the SNP Government to use its powers to legally designate the crisis as a public health emergency.
However, a row has erupted over an unsolicited private message Matheson sent Lennon, who is Scottish Labour’s health spokeswoman, last month.
She wrote: “Monica you told me DRD [drug related deaths] were too important to be politicised. I asked you what you thought a public health emergency eould [sic] mean on a practical level and you did not answer.
“My policy at the moment is not to respond to political tweets in public so please do not take advantage of that and play games. It is on our agenda to consider what a ‘public health emergency’ means practically but from what i have learned it does not allow any change in the law.”
 
In her letter to Fitzpatrick, Lennon complained about the message: “It is confrontational in tone and the content is inaccurate but more concerning, it is an attempt to censor me.
“I am making this disclosure because Professor Matheson’s conduct was unprofessional and inappropriate.”
She added: “I spent today in Maryhill at an event attended by dozens of people who are grieving due to drug related deaths or are journeying with recovery. They feel their voices are not being listened to.
“This needs to change and I feel strongly that the Chair of the Scottish Government Drug Deaths Taskforce should not be allowed to gag anyone who is trying to speak up on their behalf.”
In a report published this week, Westminster’s Scottish Affairs Committee urged the UK Government to declare the crisis a public health emergency.
A Scottish Government spokesperson said: “The Scottish Government is extremely grateful to Professor Matheson for the work she is doing as Chair of the Drug Deaths Taskforce.
“The Minister for Public Health has made it clear in Parliament that he is keen to work with as many people as possible – including MSPs from all parties - about this vital and important issue.”
 
