
# How Arsenal Could Line Up Under Mourinho

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:01:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/how-arsenal-could-line-up-under-jose-mourinho/666519)

Amid reports that former Manchester United boss Jose Mourinho could take over at Premier League side Arsenal, here is how the Gunners could line up under the Portuguese tactician!

        
          Click through the gallery above to see how Arsenal could line up under Mourinho!
        
      
According to ESPN, Mourinho would be interested in the Arsenal job should it become available, especially with Emery coming under more and more pressure following a mixed start to the 2019/20 campaign.
Mourinho has been without a job since being sacked by United in December 2018, but has made London his home. The chance to win major trophies with a third English side is said to appeal to him, but what changes would he make at the Emirates Stadium if he did get the job?

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies! 
        
      
At the back is probably where the Gunners need to improve the most, with Mourinho offering a history of stable defences throughout his coaching career.
Bernd Leno would likely remain in goal, while Mourinho's back four could consist of Hector Bellerin and Kieran Tierney on the flanks, with David Luiz, who has previously worked with the Portuguese tactician, and Eric Baily in central defence – the Ivory Coast defender has been sideline with a knee injury all season so far, and it seems it will be difficult for him to return to Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's plans at Old Trafford. The centre-back was bought for United at Mourinho's request, and the pair could now link up again, this time at Arsenal, according to the Daily Mirror.
In midfield, Lucas Torreira seems to be exactly the hard-working type of player Mourinho prefers, with the abovementioned English publication claiming that Axel Witsel would be another ideal player for the manager to sign for the London club.
In attack, many would expect Mourinho to bring Mesut Ozil back into the starting XI, with the pair having successfully worked together at Real Madrid.
Arsenal's record signing Nicolas Pepe could be given a starting berth on the right, with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang potentially featuring on the opposite wing and Alexandre Lacazette leading the line through the middle.
