
# A-ha will come to Birmingham in 2020 on their Hunting High and Low tour – here's how to get tickets

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:46:18+00:00**

Author: **Scott Dickinson, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/scott-dickinson/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/whats-on-news/ha-come-birmingham-2020-hunting-17185358)

The fans have spoken and Norwegian 80s pop band, A-ha, will be gracing us with their musical presence in autumn next year due to popular demand.
With 10 albums and over 40 million record sales under their belt, Ah-a have remained an icon of 80s culture and force to be reckoned with ever since.
Known globally for their debut album ‘Hunting High and Low’, the band will be treating arena goers to the ten song playlist of the 1985 hit record during the first half of the show.
Band keyboardist, Magne Furuholmen, has said “Recording Hunting High And Low was such a defining moment and an exciting time in our career and joint collaboration. So revisiting this body of work now – more than 30 years later – feels like inspiration rather than obligation.”
Songwriter and guitarist Pål Waaktaar added “We played the full Hunting High And Low album live once before and that was a great experience. There’s not one song on that album that we’re not looking forward to playing live.”
The band will then return to the stage for the second half and delve into their back catalogue of hits to play new and old, familiar and less-familiar songs.
The tour is set to coincide with the 35th anniversary of the release of the original version of “Take on Me”, which hit the UK in 1984. After a surprisingly underwhelming reaction from British fans, America came through with impressive record sales prompting a reissue in the UK and the rest is history.
A-ha will perform at Arena Birmingham on Friday 13 November 2020.
Tickets will go on sale Friday 8 November 2019 at 10am and can be purchased from The Ticket Factory's official bookings page here.
