
# Android 10-based OxygenOS 10 stable build now rolling for OnePlus 6/6T

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:08:07+00:00**

Author: **Marco Lancaster**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/android-10-based-oxygenos-10-stable-build-now-rolling-for-oneplus-6-6t/)

Android 10-based OxygenOS 10 stable build now rolling for OnePlus 6/6T, Download links are here3.2 (64.29%) 28 votes
The last year’s duo of OnePlus smartphones, the OnePlus 6 and 6T are being contemplated today with the stable release of OxygenOS 10. As the name suggests, the latest version of OnePlus software brings Android to its tenth iteration. Android 10 for OnePlus 6 and 6T will allow users to go one more year with their devices without the feeling of being outdated.
We have to agree that not every owner of these two devices will feel tempted to upgrade right now to the newer models. The OnePlus 7 series brings a refined design, upgraded chipset, and improved camera. However, the last year’s model is still good and can run anything on the Play Store. It’s good to see OnePlus’ commitment in bringing timely updates for older models. For instance, the 2017’s OnePlus 5 and 5T will also receive Android 10, although it won’t come until the Q2 next year.

            System
          

            Full-Screen Gestures
          

            Game Space
          

            Smart display
          

            Message
          
The update also brings the October 2019 security patch. We’re already in November, however, it’s better than the August 2019 patch that came with the last stable build. Worth noting that OxygenOS 10 is rolling out in phases, so it may take few days to reach all eligible devices. Despite this fact, you can still manually flash these updates from the links below:

        OnePlus 6 / OnePlus 6T
      
The above links are courtesy from the XDA Senior Member Some_Random_Username from the Oxygen Updater team.
