
# Midshipmen stay afloat in AAC title race with rout of UConn

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:17:50+00:00**

Author: **PAT EATON-ROBB**

Original: [The Seattle Times](https://www.seattletimes.com/sports/midshipmen-stay-afloat-in-aac-title-race-with-rout-of-uconn/)

EAST HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) — Navy quarterback Malcolm Perry ran for 108 yards and two touchdowns and threw for 165 yards and another score Friday night in leading the Midshipmen to a 56-10 rout of UConn.
It was the fifth straight 100-yard rushing game for the senior, who eclipsed 1,000 yards rushing for the third consecutive season.
The win keeps the Midshipmen (7-1, 5-1 American) within striking distance of undefeated No. 15 SMU in the AAC West Division.
Freshman Jack Zergiotis threw for 205 yards and a touchdown for UConn (2-7, 0-5), but had three turnovers including two first-half interceptions that led to Navy scoring drives.
Perry scored on his first carry, spinning past the line of scrimmage and going 58 yards down the numbers on the right side of the field. He also had a 58-yard touchdown pass in the first half, hitting Mychal Cooper down the middle one play after Zergiotis’ second interception. It was one of just six passes thrown by Perry, who completed three of them, all for more than 30 yards.
Zergiotis’ first pick set Navy up on a 49-yard Navy drive that ended with a 13-yard run up the gut by Jamale Carothers. The sophomore fullback added touchdown runs of 23 and 6 yards in the second half.
Advertising
The Huskies were still in the game with a first down on Navy’s 2-yard line and less than a minute to play in the first half. But Jacob Springer Jr. forced a Zergiotis fumble on third down and the Midshipmen led 28-10 at intermission.
Navy finished with 573 yards of offense, including 408 on the ground.
Kevin Mensah had 107 yards rushing for UConn.
THE TAKEAWAY
Navy: Perry becomes the second player in Navy history to rush for at least 1,000 yards in three straight seasons, joining Keenan Reynolds who accomplished the feat in 2013, 2014 and 2015.
UConn: The Huskies losing streak against American Athletic Conference opponents is now 16. UConn snapped a 22-game losing streak against all opponents from the Bowl Subdivision last week with a win over UMass.
UP NEXT
Navy: The Midshipmen are off until Nov. 16, when they visit South Bend, Indiana, for their annual game against Notre Dame.
UConn: The Huskies travel to Cincinnati a week from Saturday to face the East Division leading Bearcats.
PAT EATON-ROBB
