
# Shefali Jariwala makes sensational claim on Bigg Boss, tells Tehseen Poonawalla ‘I’ve dated Siddharth Shukla’

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:50:51+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/shefali-jariwala-makes-sensational-claim-on-bigg-boss-tells-tehseen-poonawalla-ive-dated-siddharth-shukla/271132/)

Shefali Jariwala on Friday night sensationally revealed that she had dated Siddharth Shukla in the past. She told Tehseen Poonawalla that she had dated Siddharth. Referring to Rashami Desai’s constant fight with Siddharth, Shefali said, “she may have worked with him (Siddharth), but I’ve dated him some years ago.”
Whilst many including Farah Khan had hinted that both Rashami and Siddharth may have dated each other, Shefali’s claims of being romantically linked with him has come as a shock for many.
Shefali Zariwala had shot to fame with her album Kaanta Lagaa about 20 years ago. She will be entering the reality show as a wild card contestant this week.
Later, Shehnaaz Gill was seen flirting with Siddharth, who said that she was ‘too much’ for him. To which, Shehnaaz interpreted it as her being overweight and said that she was going to lose weight by maintaining a strict diet.
Shefali and Rashami were seen arguing after learning that the former had called her dogali or two-faced. Shefali also challenged Rashami, to which the latter took objection; she was particularly displeased when Shefali alleged that the famous TV actress exhibited arrogance because of her stardom.
Later, Devoleena too was heard confessing that she didn’t trust Shefali. Shefali was later seen switching her team as she sat with the team led by Siddharth Shukla.
