
# Roma vs Napoli LIVE: Latest score, goals and updates from Serie A today

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:32:37+00:00**

Author: **Karl Matchett**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/live/roma-vs-napoli-live-score-goals-latest-updates-serie-a-today-a9182236.html)

Roma host Napoli in Serie A this afternoon as the two Italian heavyweights clash for the first time this season.
Roma will be hoping to leapfrog Atalanta into third place as they look to maintain their bright start to the current campaign. On Wednesday night they thrashed Udinese 4-0, while last weekend they saw off AC Milan at home.
Napoli will meanwhile be without manager Carlo Ancelotti on the touchline, after he was shown a red card in the club’s 2-2 draw with Atalanta. A win would see Napoli leapfrog Roma and move into fourth – follow live coverage below.
Show latest update2019-11-02T14:32:37.120ZRoma 1-0 Napoli 28' - Great clearance by Smalling, hooking the ball away a yard before the goalline as Di Lorenzo's header looped toward goal. Insigne then races in behind the Roma defence and strikes goalward, but it's wide. Better from the away side.
2019-11-02T14:29:20.070ZPENALTY SAVED! Kolarov goes low to the keeper's right, but Meret makes a brilliant one-handed save. Going to put that down as a tremendous use of VAR, on this occasion! Still Roma 1-0 Napoli.
VAR2019-11-02T14:28:31.773ZRoma 1-0 Napoli 24' - Penalty to Roma! Didn't seem to be anything going on, but the ref is called across to check the screen - and yes, Callejon has handballed in the box as he intercepts a bouncing ball!
2019-11-02T14:26:22.046ZRoma 1-0 Napoli 22' - Great strike from Kolarov as he hits one from the edge of the box which is arrowing toward the bottom corner - but Meret makes a good diving save to tip it behind for a corner.
AdvertisementGOAL!2019-11-02T14:22:44.450ZGOAL! Roma 1-0 Napoli 18' - Tremendous pass from Mancini down the right, Spinazzola pulls it back and Zaniolo lashes one into the top corner for the opening goal!
2019-11-02T14:21:49.010Z​Roma 0-0 Napoli 16' - Napoli launching sporadic counters, but Roma are certainly on top. Kolarov gets away with one after playing everyone onside.
2019-11-02T14:16:19.263Z​Roma 0-0 Napoli 12' - Mancini flicks a lovely ball into the area, but Pastore blazes over under pressure from Manolas. Pastore is certainly making the most of the injuries in the Roma squad; he played just under 600 league minutes last season and, if he plays the full 90 today, will already be on 377 for 19/20.
2019-11-02T14:12:57.346Z​Roma 0-0 Napoli 10' - We're officially into the winter half of the season, by the way - the yellow ball is on show. Kliuvert has just sent it flashing past Meret's right-hand post; fierce strike, but a few yards wide. 
Advertisement2019-11-02T14:10:42.970Z​Roma 0-0 Napoli 7' - Mertens strikes one from range, but it's easy for Pau Lopez. Roma have only conceded twice in their last five league games.
2019-11-02T14:06:14.840ZRoma 0-0 Napoli 3' - Roma on the front foot from the start, but Napoli defend a series of crosses and corners from Kolarov. Zaniolo already looking to cut infield and make things happen.
KICK OFF2019-11-02T14:04:00.920ZKick-off! We are underway!
2019-11-02T13:54:42.956ZIf either of these two sides manages to pick up the three points today, they'll be up into third place. Atalanta don't play until tomorrow.
Advertisement2019-11-02T13:42:08.306ZAs has been confirmed ahead of the game, no Carlo Ancelotti today. He sent in a hand-written appeal, but his red card ban stands. 
2019-11-02T13:36:36.986ZSurprise success story of the season so far? Chris Smalling might well be in the running for that particular award. Big test today, though, against an in-form Milik who has four goals in four starts. 
2019-11-02T13:30:39.520ZThe full lineups in text: Roma: Lopez; Spinazzola, Smalling, Cetin, Kolarov; Mancini, Veretout; Zaniolo, Pastore, Kluivert; Dzeko. Napoli: Meret; Di Lorenzo, Manolas, Koulibaly, Rui; Callejon, Fabian Ruiz, Zielinski, Insigne; Mertens, Milik.
2019-11-02T13:28:55.683ZNapoli have two changes in defence as well, with Manolas and Mario Rui returning. Mertens is in for Chucky Lozano to partner Milik in attack. 
Advertisement2019-11-02T13:26:20.730ZRoma bring Yildirim Mert Cetin in for the suspended Fazio at centre-back; Spinazzola replaces Santon on the right. With Lorenzo Pellegrini still out injured, Nicolo Zaniolo and Justin Kluivert provide the guile and pace in the attacking midfield line. 
2019-11-02T13:21:59.160ZIt's fourth vs. sixth in Serie A, with neither side quite as consistent as they'd like to be of late, both winning three and drawing two of the last five. Just one point separates them in the table.

          2019-11-02T12:38:14.500Z
          Good afternoon and welcome to our live coverage of Roma vs Napoli. 
        
Match preview
The match is today: Saturday 2 November.
The match gets underway at 2pm GMT.
A live stream will be shown on Bet365 for UK viewers.
Viewers in the United States can watch the match on ESPN Deportes.
