
# Swap Your Old Tecno Camon Phone for a New Camon 12 Series at Subsidized Prices

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:38:58+00:00**

Author: **Kiruti Itimu**

Original: [Techweez](https://techweez.com/2019/11/05/swap-old-tecno-camon-for-camon-12-series/)

TECNO released the Camon 12 quite recently and they are a trio that is designed for this market. We have the normal Camon 12, the more expensive Camon 12 Pro and the budget Camon Air.
The company is now making a move to ensure that people who have old TECNO phones can upgrade to the new models easier and cheaper.
TECNO has a sale where people with either Camon 11, Camon 11 Pro, Camon X or Camon CM can swap their phones to be eligible to purchase a new Camon 12 at a subsidized price.
This will be done in their Carlcare stores where the on-site staff will make professional evaluations of your old Camon phone and if the subsidy is accepted by the user, the person would be able to buy a new Camon 12 series phone for as low as Kshs 4,316!
The Camon 12 Air, Camon 12 and Camon 12 Pro currently go for Kshs 13,499, Ksh 15,499 and Kshs 19,499 respectively. The maximum subsidy is Kshs 9,183 so if you qualify, you could buy the Camon 12 Air for Kshs 4,136 which is great!
In addition, if you successfully order any of the Camon 12 series on the official website or on the designated TECNO stores, you can receive gift hampers from TECNO.
According to the company, this sale and phone swap deal will be running until the 18th November, so you have a few days to take advantage of it.
If you were planning to upgrade your phone and you have an old TECNO phone, you have the opportunity to secure a nice discount to getting a shiny new Camon series phone from TECNO.
