
# Leeds goalkeeper Kiko Casilla 'set for eight to 12 match ban' for alleged racist abuse

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:26:13+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/leeds-goalkeeper-kiko-casilla-set-20793146)

Leeds goalkeeper Kiko Casilla is set to be banned for eight to 12 matches for racially abusing Charlton striker Jonathan Leko, according to reports.
It comes after an investigation was launched by the Football Association in the aftermath of the Championship meeting between the two sides in September.
Casilla, 33, had been accused of using a racial slur against Leko, who is currently on loan from league rivals West Brom, during Charlton's 1-0 victory.
And the Daily Mail reports that the Spanish stopper is now set to be hit with a lengthy suspension after the FA concluded its probe.
According to the publication, the former Real Madrid man is set to miss at least eight games and could be banned until the start of the new year.
It is understood that the outcome of the investigation and details of Casilla's punishment will be announced on Wednesday.
Referee John Brooks was made aware of the alleged incident after the game and included the claims in his report, which prompted the FA to look into the matter further.
As part of the investigation, it is claimed that both Casilla and Leko, 20, were spoken to by the governing body.
The FA also reportedly called in lip readers and Spanish interpreters in an attempt to gather as much evidence as possible, and the case against the Leeds goalkeeper is believed to be strong enough to bring a harsh punishment.
Casilla's absence is expected to be a big blow to Marcelo Bielsa's side, with the 33-year-old starting in each of Leeds' league matches this season.
The Mail state that the FA are looking to show their determination to combat racism on the back of an incident that saw England players racially abused by Bulgaria fans during a EURO 2020 qualifier last month.
