
# Recto flags ‘Hulk’-like growth of UA items in budget

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:28:46+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/07/recto-flags-hulk-like-growth-of-ua-items-in-budget/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
Senate President Pro Tempore Ralph Recto vowed Wednesday to scrutinize the remarkable growth of unprogrammed appropriations (UA) the past several years, as he revealed that the P4.1-trillion annual budget for 2020 submitted earlier by Malacañang for Congress approval actually adds up P4.316.3 trillion.
“The actual 2020 budget is P216 billion higher, but the unprogrammed part lacks details,” Recto said. “While every literature states that P4.1 trillion is the national budget for 2020, in reality, it is not.”
Recto asserted that the “real amount” is P4.316.3 trillion, or P216.3 billion higher than what is commonly stated.
“My point is that these particulars should be openly declared in the NEP [national expenditure program], and not swept under innocuously worded headings,” the senator said.
“Because these involve large  amounts, I would raise this issue during the plenary debates, so that whatever good  they will bring will be conveyed to the public who will pay for them,” said Recto, former director general of the National Economic and Development Au-thority (Neda) and chairman formany years of the Senate’s Ways and Means panel.
After reviewing the budget documents submitted for Congress consideration and approval, Recto reported that the P216.3 billion represents the so-called unprogrammed appropriations (UA). While the release of funds from this is governed by several “triggers,” the authority to spend it comes with the passage of the national budget, he added.
“Thus, P4.316 trillion is the implied ceiling of the proposed 2020 budget,” the Senate President Pro Tempore said, adding: “Once the latter becomes law, it confers standby authority to the executive to spend it, provided conditions are met.”
He raised the alarm over the “barely discussed” manner by which the UA portion of the budget bill has grown, in a manner so fast he said it could “have been on steroids.”
Recto recalled that in just two years, the UA has “grown in Incredible Hulk-like proportions and speed,” and trotted out the data: in 2016, the UA was P67.5 billion; it was the same amount in 2017. “Then  it nudged a bit to P75.3 billion in 2018. But 2019 saw it ballooning to P197.1 billion.”
According to Recto’s computation, “the hyperinflation continues next year with a UA amount of P216.3 billion.”
He explained that the national budget can be broken down into two: the so-called programmed part (P4.1 trillion), and the unprogrammed (P216.3 billion). The former, he added, can be defined as funded appropriations, while the latter is conditioned on the availability of funds.
The senator also noted that under the fine print of the national budget, any amount in the UA can only be released if revenue collections exceed target, new sources of revenue are created, or when foreign loans or grants or borrowings are received. “It can be likened to a parking mall of vehicles, each with a trip ticket to proceed but all waiting for fuel to arrive,” he said.
Recto acknowledged concerns that the UA is “also plagued by lack of transparency,” adding that “it is not your ideal itemized section of the budget. Rather, large amounts are placed in generic boxes whose specifics lack elaboration.”
As example, he pointed to the biggest item in the UA—the P90.4 billion for “Support to Foreign-Assisted Projects.” It is bigger, he said, than the DOH agency budget for 2020. [For whatever this is, it wasn’t detailed in the] National Expenditure Program [NEP].” He likened it to a “check with an amount stated, but no particulars.”
The next biggest UA item is the P61.9 billion in so-called Budgetary Support to GOCCs. The third is the P30 billion for the Risk Management Program. “Here, at last, is a UA item with its purpose painted in broad but economical strokes. It is reserved for government commitments and agreements related to PPP projects, the names of which are, again, not specified.”
He, however, was quick to clarify that “it will be wrong to say that all projects under UA are devoid of merit” because, “in fact, some are good,” like the P5.4 billion for the Health Facilities Enhancement Program, the P5 billion for the Bangsamoro Normalization Program and the P5 billion for AFP Modernization.
Recto also listed the P2.4 billion for the National ID Project. 
There is, however, an item for P1.2 billion to repay local government units and another P2 billion to pay the “previous IT contractor” of the Land Transportation Office.
At the same time, Recto reported that “we were able to pry from the executive the projects to be funded by the mega P90.3-billion projects to be funded by foreign debt, and the P61.8 billion for select GOCCs, including the two big ticket items: P40.6 billion for the NFA where previous payments made by the government for its loans will be converted into subsidy; and five rail projects worth P75. 8 billion. 
