
# Cops close in on £500k gold gangs targeting Asian families in Renfrewshire

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:42:52+00:00**

Author: **David Campbell**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/cops-close-500k-gold-gangs-20830827)

A team of detectives is hunting highly-organised criminal gangs targeting Asian families for jewellery and cash.
The crooks are part of a £500,000 gold and money crime spree and have been targeting Asian families in Renfrewshire.
In recent months, they have raided homes in Renfrew, Elderslie and Paisley, making off with tens of thousands of pounds worth of cash and jewels.
Police in Paisley last night revealed a specialist unit has been set up to catch the surveillance-savvy gangs, which often use methods such as spraying surfaces with bleach to destroy forensic evidence.
Detective Inspector Bob Bowie, from Paisley CID, said officers are determined to catch those responsible.
He said: “As part of a focused approach across the whole of Renfrewshire and Inverclyde, we have a dedicated team of officers targeting acquisitive crime.
“This includes those crimes whereby high value jewellery and money has been stolen.
“The team will work with colleagues and partners across the country to help bring these organised criminals to justice.”
 
Last month, five masked men burst in to an elderly Renfrew couple’s home in Spey Drive and held them hostage for more than an hour as they ransacked the house.
The terrified victims were unhurt, but left badly shaken by the ordeal.
The gang raided a home in Elderslie the same day, stealing cash and jewellery worth tens of thousands.
A week later, a gang burst into the home of a Paisley family, but made off empty handed.
Police Scotland revealed there had been 35 reports of break-ins to properties in Glasgow, Paisley, Renfrew, Ayrshire and Edinburgh, resulting in more than £500,000 worth of jewellery and cash being stolen since April.
They have urged members of the public to look out for suspicious activity in residential areas
Such incidents generally happen between 11am and 11pm.
Police have also called on householders who store valuable gold items and cash in their homes to ensure these goods are stored safely out of sight and that their properties are robustly secured.
 
Detective Inspector Kevin Gilmour, who is leading Police Scotland’s response to the incidents, said: “In 2017 and the early part of 2018, we saw significant numbers of Asian gold housebreakings taking place and a national campaign was launched to address this.
“Whilst the numbers we’ve seen occurring over recent times are much lower than two years ago, I want to again reassure the public that we are doing everything we can to investigate all incidents which occur and bring the perpetrators to justice.
“Prevention is key and I would ask all members of our communities to assist us in stopping these offences by being vigilant and considering the security of their properties.
“It is known that bedrooms and lofts routinely get searched during the commission of these crimes.
“If you witness any behaviour you feel is suspicious or unusual, or have any concerns about the behaviour of an individual or group of people, please contact us immediately, noting any vehicle registrations if safe to do so.
“I would urge you to consider the overall security of your home and, where possible, look to invest in good locks for your doors and windows, motion-activated lighting, alarm systems and CCTV.
“If you require any information on safeguarding your property and belongings, please visit our website at www.scotland.police.uk.”

        
          More of the latest news from the PAISLEY DAILY EXPRESS
        
      
