
# Best chromebooks worth investing in for 2019 including popular models from Asus and Lenovo

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brijiena Lovelace, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/brijiena-lovelace/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/best-chromebooks-worth-investing-2019-20789371)

Thanks to an abundance of tech gadgets available to us now, if you're old bits are due an upgrade, we don't have to look very far for a good deal.
Chromebooks are the stylish hybrid somewhere in between a tablet and a laptop. They're often cheaper and smaller making them easy to transport around and better to replace in case of an unfortunate oopsies.
Whether you're using your for work, entertainment or both; there's a chromebook out there to suit all of your day to day requirements. Unless you really want to, you won't have to spend an arm and a leg either.
If you're thinking about it but aren't sure where to start - below, we've rounded up ten of the best you can buy now.
The Lenovo chromebook is stylish, compact and more than capable of dealing with your day to day needs. At only just over a kilogram in weight, it won't slow you down and will fit nicely into your bag.
The 2-in1 style chromebook is easily foldable and able to convert into a tablet style monitor; when you do need something a little bit more professional for work, simply fold it back out to gain access to your keyboard and trackpad.
With 4GB of RAM and up to 10 hours of battery life, you can conquer the days tasks and enjoy some downtime all on a single charge.

        Price: £259, Amazon - buy here now
      
Another 2 in 1 gadget, this time from Google. It comes with a much higher price tag than that of the Lenovo - but also comes equipped with specs to rival those of some of the best desktops.
A Quad HD screen ensures that whether it's a spreadsheet or a game battle you're looking at, you're looking at it in the finest and most detailed quality.
Log in quickly and securely wherever you are, with the Slate's fingerprint scanner. You'll also seldom have to worry about forgetting your charger - with a very impressive 12 hours of battery.

        Price: £749, Currys - buy here now
      
This model from ASUS isn't the most distinguished you can find on the market, however, it has an asking price of dreams and some pretty good memory not to snivel at. 
If the main purpose of purchasing a chromebook is to do all of the usual stuff like checking emails, saving documents etc - this will do the job and do it well.
If you don't have a lot to spend but want to get a model worthwhile, this is a great contender.

        Price: £199, Amazon - buy here now
      
Lightweight, super sleek and extremely versatile.
Designed for life on the go, this nifty little device has a 360 degree hinge, which allows you to use it in different ways. Use it as a tablet for convenience, flip the keyboard over when you're ready to start working; or for precious downtime, you can 'tent and stand' it for easy watching.
Packed with a HD touch display with Gorilla Glass, bring all of your work and entertainment to life in vivid colours. 10 hours of battery life and an anti-glare pane to protect your eyes, are just a few features that make this chromebook ideal for the everyday person on the go.

        Price: £249.99, Very - buy here now
      
Why choose between a laptop and a tablet, when you can essentially have both? When practicality meets style, you end up with a easy to use gadget you'll wonder how you've managed to live without.
Weighing under two kilograms, you can easily carry this around with you to meetings, lunch or anywhere you need to be with ease.
With 4GB of RAM and 128GB of storage, this super fast device is more than capable of coping with your day to day demands. 

        Price: £629, Currys - buy here now
      
If you're looking for a premium chromebook, with a little less than a premium price - this one from ASUS is one of the best you can buy at the moment. It has features similar to that of the Google Pixelbook - without the eye watering asking price.
Enjoy the super lightweight device on the go and at all times, as it weighs just over a kilogram. It has 10 hours of battery life and 64GB of memory space. The memory isn't the most impressive on the market, but certainly isn't the worst either. 

        
          Price: £468.90, Amazon - buy here now
        
      
Samsung is quickly making a name for themselves in the chromebook world, whilst this version isn't the latest model available, for a premium device at Samsung under £700 - it's one to keep an eye out for.
It comes with a nifty stylus pen that ultimately gives you more control and creativity with your new chromebook.
You can also continue tasks where you left off, with another Samsung device using Samsung flow. Perfect if you're a gadget lover and always on the go.

        Price: £645.38, Amazon - buy here now
      
This 2-in-1 chromebook from Acer has an impressive 12 hours of battery life, along with a 13.3" inch full HD display - making it perfect for working during the day and watching Netflix in the evenings.
AC WiFi allows you to stream and download all of your favourite shows at high speeds and without interruption.
A 360 degree hinge lets you switch between viewing functions quickly and efficiently.  

        Price: £399, Currys - buy here now
      
If you're looking for a bit of a splurge, this HP X2 chromebook is well worth the cash. It's pretty sleek looking for the first detachable chromebook.
It has a powerful m3 processor - which is ideal if you require a fast acting machine at all times, as well as an improved 12 hours of battery life.

        Price: £699, Amazon - buy here now
      
This practical and pretty design has all of the buzzwords you like to hear, when you're looking for a new gadget. 4GB of RAM, less than 1.5kg in weight and a sturdy 10 hours of battery to play with. 
The keyboard is spill resistant, making it perfect for coffee loving university students. It also has unique rounded edges and display cushions which ensure protection for it's new life on the go.
It doesn't have the greatest memory with only 16GB, it isn't the worst for the asking price either. For under £200, you can't really go wrong

        Price: £199.99, Amazon - buy here now
      
