
# Colchester pub crash sees man, 40, arrested on suspicion of murder after car kills one and leaves three injured

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:40:46+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/colchester-pub-crash-sees-man-17192887)

A 40-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder after a car struck a pub in Essex.
The victim has been identified as a 36-year-old man who died at the scene after a white Nissan Qashqai crashed into the Spinnaker Public House in Colchester.
A 34-year-old man was taken to hospital with life-changing injuries, Essex Police said.
Two other people, a 34-year-old woman and 33-year-old man, were also taken to hospital with minor injuries.
Police were called to the pub in Hythe Quay to reports of a car hitting the pub shortly after 12.50am on Sunday.
Following the incident, Hythe Quay was closed for about seven hours and reopened at 9am.
The arrested man has also been detained on suspicion of grievous bodily harm with intent, death by dangerous driving and assault.
Officers have asked anyone who saw a white Nissan Qashqai in the area or was in the pub at the time of the incident to come forward.
Anyone with information or video footage is asked to call 101, quoting incident 63 of November 3.
The neighbour said that a woman had been seen in the car having a panic attack.
He added: "I heard there were two people in the car, and a lady in the car was having a panic attack."
Essex Police confirmed that a female who had been in the car was taken to hospital with minor injuries as well as the three other people injured in the incident.
The force added that formal identification of the victim had not yet taken place.
