
# Vandals damage poppy wreaths laid in memory of six soldiers killed in a Lisburn bomb attack

Published at: **2019-11-01T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rebecca Black**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/01/news/vandals-damage-poppy-wreaths-laid-in-memory-of-six-soldiers-killed-in-a-lisburn-bomb-attack-1753636/)

Vandals have been condemned after poppy wreaths in memory of six soldiers killed in a Lisburn bomb attack were damaged.
Eleven bystanders were injured in the blast in the Market Street area of the city on June 15 1988 following a charity half marathon.
The soldiers had been in an unmarked military vehicle when the IRA bomb exploded.
Poppy wreaths left close to the site of the attack were discovered vandalised on Thursday.
DUP Lagan Valley MP Sir Jeffrey Donaldson condemned the incident.
"In this period of remembrance, what kind of individual feels it is right to desecrate a memorial in this way?" he said.
"Thanks to the constituent who reported this. I have now alerted the council who will reinstate the wreaths."
Ulster Unionist councillor Stuart Hughes also expressed anger.
"Disgusted to learn that the memorial to those murdered in the Lisburn Half Marathon bomb has been vandalised. Some people have no shame," he commented on Twitter.
A spokeswoman for Lisburn and Castlereagh Council said the wreaths will be reinstated.
"Lisburn and Castlereagh City Council is aware of the damage to the wreaths placed for the victims of the Lisburn Half Marathon," she said.
"The council has arranged for the area to be cleared and the wreaths will be reinstated as soon as possible."
