
# Delhi air pollution crisis: Priyanka Chopra finds it hard to cope up with the poisonous air pollution, says I can’t even imagine what it must be like to live here

Published at: **2019-11-04T03:28:16+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/delhi-air-pollution-crisis-priyanka-chopra-finds-it-hard-to-cope-up-with-the-poisonous-air-pollution-says-i-cant-even-imagine-what-it-must-be-like-to-live-here/articleshow/71885006.cms)

The alarming air pollution in the capital of the nation has been the talk of the town for a while now. Delhi is currently going through a very bad condition as air pollution level has increased leading to citizens suffering from hazardous breathing problems and whatnot. Many B-town celebs are spreading awareness through their posts on social media. Joining the bandwagon is Priyanka Chopra.
PeeCee is currently in Delhi shooting for one of her upcoming projects opposite Rajkummar Rao. As she shoots in the capital of the our nation, she took to her Instagram handle and shared a selfie with a mask. She expressed how bad the situation has been in Delhi due to the rising air pollution and also prayed for the homeless who are helpless. She requested the Delhi people to take special care of themselves. She expressed how hard it is to shoot in such a polluted area and shared that the film's production team is taking special care of the cast and crew by providing purifiers and masks. She wrote, "Shoot days for #thewhitetiger. It’s so hard to shoot here right now that I can’t even imagine what it must be like to live here under these conditions. We r blessed with air purifiers and masks. Pray for the homeless. Be safe everyone. #airpollution #delhipollution😷 #weneedsolutions #righttobreathe."
As soon as the actress shared this post, fans bombarded her post with many sweet messages of asking the actress to take care of herself. Priyanka Chopra made her Bollywood comeback with Shonali Bose's 'The Sky Is Pink', which was recently released. The film featured Farhan Akhtar, Zaira Wasim, Rohit Saraf and others apart from Priyanka Chopra.
