
# Mohamed Elyounoussi responds to Celtic transfer talk as Southampton loan star eyes trophies

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Craig Swan, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/craig-swan/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-transfer-news/mohamed-elyounoussi-responds-celtic-transfer-20816041)

Loan star Mohamed Elyounoussi has put his future transfer plans on hold to focus on gaining success for Celtic.
The Norwegian international has made a blistering start to his spell at Parkhead with seven goals in 10 games after joining on a year-long deal from Southampton.
Elyounoussi’s immediate impact has some Celtic fans hoping a permanent arrangement may come in the future for the attacker.
The 25-year-old cost Saints £16 million and a hefty personal package when signing from FC Basle 17 months ago, but he was well out of the picture on England’s south coast before Neil Lennon made his move just prior to the close of the summer transfer window.
Elyounoussi is savouring life in Glasgow and heads for Thurday night’s Europa League crunch against Lazio in Rome as a key man.
 
But he says any long-term thoughts about his future are firmly on the back burner as he concentrates on winning medals and performing well in Europe for the champions.
He said: “I haven’t thought about what is going to happen in the future. All I think about is what is going to happen in the next training session and then the next game. I never look too far ahead.
“When the season is finished I will sit down and look at all of my options, but right now I am just happy to be here and playing for Celtic.
“I think I need to focus on the here and now and not the future or the past.
“After everything I have been through in the last 12 months and not playing at Southampton, it makes me appreciate what I have even more. It makes winning semi-finals and playing in Europe even more special for me.
 
“I really appreciate how often the gaffer has played me since I have arrived and that belief he has in me. I am happy to repay him by scoring some goals and having some assists.
“I think over the next few months I can get even better. I think with the coaches we have here then I am confident I can get stronger. I came here to get some minutes and to try to help the team win some silverware.”
