
# Mum with disabled child has been evicted by council and forced to move 14 times

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/mum-disabled-child-been-evicted-20811117)

Nine in 10 private renters in need of a social home have been left on waiting lists for years, figures suggest.
Of the 500,000 privately renting households on council waiting lists last year - just 43,000 families were actually housed, Shelter said.
And worryingly, the true scale of need among private renters is probably far greater than these figures suggest.
Since 2011, councils have been able to decide the eligibility criteria for their own waiting lists - with many insisting people must have a long-standing connection to the local area to qualify. This means thousands cannot even get on the list in the first place.
It's a problem linked to decades of failed Government promises to build new social homes, Shelter said.
Just 6,434 social rent homes were delivered last year, but 21,500 were lost through sales, conversions and demolitions.
 
Consequently, people have become effectively trapped in expensive private renting.
And the long term effects can be devastating. Almost two million private renters are constantly struggling or falling behind with their rent, sacrificing food and heating to cover basic living costs.
Mum of three, Kim, has spent the past 10 years being passed around several social housing waiting lists.
The mum, 35, has three young kids, including Sasha, 15, who is disabled. To date, she's lived in 14 different homes and has been evicted once.
"My daughter Sasha is severely disabled, and the council says there are no social homes available that meet our needs, so our only option is to stay on the list, carry on renting privately and hope against the odds that something becomes free," Kim said.
"Being stuck in private renting is a nightmare for my family. Last year, we were living a bungalow but were evicted when the landlord needed to sell. Knowing that could easily happen again is terrifying.
"Sasha has lived in 14 different houses during her lifetime, and we haven’t had a house that feels like a home for years."
“On top of all the insecurity, renting privately is a massive financial drain. Obviously rent always comes first, but then my children miss out.
"Sometimes, I have to spend the money meant for Sasha’s therapies on paying rent, we’ve had to cut back on food and days trips are out of the question. What I’d really love is a home I can afford and suits Sasha’s needs, and somewhere my children can finally feel settled."
Polly Neate, chief executive of Shelter, said: "When 9 in 10 private renters who need a social home aren’t getting one, alarm bells should be ringing. But when this means parents are forced to skip meals just to pay their rent then clearly, we need to take action now.
“Decades of failure to build social housing has created a nightmare scenario with people trapped in private renting all over the country. On top of living on the breadline, far too many are facing the threat of eviction or battling poor conditions. 
“To save struggling renters from a lifetime of instability, social housing must be at the heart of every party’s manifesto during the election. We are calling on all parties to commit to delivering at least 90,000 social rent homes a year over the next parliament, to give everyone in this country a fighting chance of a stable home.”
