
# Priyanka Chopra wishes Brother-in-law Kevin Jonas on his birthday, says 'to the brother who always has my back'

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:12:33+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/priyanka-chopra-wishes-brother-in-law-kevin-jonas-on-his-birthday-says-to-the-brother-who-always-has-my-back/articleshow/71932990.cms)

After Nick Jonas wishing his brother Kevin Jonas on his birthday today, Priyanka Chopra too took to her social media handles to wish her beloved brother-in-law in a best possible way.
Priyanka and Kevin shared a great bond even before the 'desi girl' became the part of Jonas family. Not only Nick, but brother Kevin had also spoken about Priyanka Chopra to the international media before Nick and Priyanka actually tied the knot. Kevin had reportedly called Priyanka as 'super-awesome' and it had made headlines then. Kevin had also spoken about how his brother Nick is smitten by Priyanka and how he should start a family with the Bollywood star.
Much was said and written about it back then. However as today Kevin turns a year older, his dear sister in law has something special for him. She took to her instagram handle and shared a warm wish for him. Priyanka wrote, "To the brother who always has my back! Happy birthday @kevinjonas may this year be the best one yet! Love you loads.. ❤️🙌🏽." Well, this wish is so warm and from the bottom of her heart that it instantly caught our attention.
Moreover, Priyanka share a special bond with Kevin's daughter as well and their pictures are all over the internet.
Meanwhile, on the Bollywood front, Priyanka was last seen in 'The Sky Is Pink', which marked her Bollywood comeback after three years. She is currently shooting in Delhi for her next project.
