
# Cambuslang mum fraudulently claimed more than £42,000 in housing benefits

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:13:15+00:00**

Author: **Rutherglen Reformer, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/rutherglen-reformer/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/cambuslang-mum-fraudulently-claimed-more-20834125)

A Cambuslang mum who fraudulently claimed more than £42,000 in housing benefits was snared after admitting an affair with her landlord.
Jennifer Aitken, 39, falsely claimed from South Lanarkshire Council between October 2012 and April 2018.
Aitken told the DWP that she originally needed support but it had “snowballed.”
She broke the law by not telling the council on her application that she had two children with her landlord.
So far, Aitken has only repaid £300 of the money she claimed.
She pleaded guilty today at Glasgow Sheriff Court to embezzling housing benefit of £42,874.85.
The court heard Aitken lied on her form when it came to a question about her relationship with her landlord.
She denied having a relationship or children with the landlord.
The DWP received a “tip-off” that the accused was living with her partner and they investigated.
Aitken was interviewed at a job centre in Rutherglen where she denied knowledge of the fraud.
Prosecutor Lauren McRobert said: “Aitken later admitted to having an affair with her landlord and that he was the father of her sons.
“She said she needed support and then it snowballed.
“She said he did not live there at the time and had another family and he was split between them.”
Aitken was informed that she shouldn’t have claimed housing benefit based on her background.
She was re-assessed by the DWP and lost her housing benefits due to the relationship with the landlord.
A payment plan was made in October 2018 for £100 a month.
Aitken has only paid £300 since but emailed the DWP to start again in January next year.
Sentence was deferred for reports until next month by Sheriff Andrew Cubie.
Sheriff Cubie told her: “Be under no illusions that the extent is you took £42,000 of the public tax purse and custody is an option.”
Aitken, still living in the same flat in Cambuslang, was bailed meantime.
