
# Self-Driving Cars Likely To Spur Solo Occupancy and Paradoxically Undercut True Ridesharing

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lance Eliot**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/lanceeliot/2019/11/03/self-driving-cars-likely-to-spur-solo-occupancy-and-paradoxically-undercut-true-ridesharing/)

Today’s ridesharing via Uber and Lyft is supposed to get more people to share rides and therefore cut down on the number of trips made, along with making more efficient use of cars and roadways, plus saving the earth by knocking down the volume of harmful exhaust emissions.Unfortunately, contemporary ridesharing is more akin to ride-hailing than it is to actual ride sharing.
By-and-large, people using present-day ridesharing services are taking trips that encompass just one passenger, themselves. They are hailing a ride that will transport themselves, only, and not sharing the ride with any other passengers (a scant one-fifth of the time they opt for sharing a ride).
Of course, there is another person in the car, the driver, but that person is not a passenger per se and resides in the car for the purpose of driving the vehicle.
Various industry stats suggest that the number of occupants in ridesharing cars is around 1.5, which includes the driver.
This is a disheartening number and raises uncomfortable questions about the promises of ridesharing.
Worse too is the aspect that a significant percentage of the travelers have reported via surveys that they would have walked or ridden a bike (around 10% of riders say so), but they were wooed instead to use a ‘ridesharing’ option due to the ease of doing so.
And, worse upon worse, nearly one-third to almost one-half reported that they would have taken a form of mass transit if the ridesharing (ride-hailing) approach wasn’t so readily available and relatively inexpensive.
Ride-hailing has usurped the spark to walk or bike and undermines the impetus toward using mass transit.
Originally, it was believed that ridesharing might be the so-called “last mile” mechanism to connect people from their homes to mass transit. The idea was that you would have a ridesharing car take you to a bus stop or train station, and you’d continue the remainder of your journey via mass transit.
That is not a noticeable outcome of today’s ridesharing services.
People are instead undertaking transit substitution, opting toward using ridesharing cars in lieu of other modes of transit.
Who can blame them?
We all relish the single occupancy aspects of driving our own cars, and the next best thing is being the sole passenger in a ridesharing car.
As a result of catering to our desire to travel in our own bubble, the ride-hailing tsunami has not reduced the number of trips that people make, it has not gotten more people to take trips together, and it isn’t saving the earth by polluting less.
Arguments are often made that ride-hailing has done the reverse of those good things.
People are making more trips via cars than they did before (as mentioned, avoiding walking, biking, and mass transit). Short trips that once were done via another mode are now done via a car.
There is also the sneaky aspect of induced demand too.
With induced demand, people can be induced into traveling more than they would have otherwise traveled before.
Suppose you usually went to the grocery store on a once per week basis. You only went once a week because getting there was a hassle.
Now, via the easy of using your smartphone, you can seamlessly request a ridesharing car and travel to the grocery store numerous times per week. Thus, your one trip per week blossoms to say three or four trips per week.
The congestion produced by all these added trips is rather noticeable on our roads, particularly in popular places that are constrained such as a crowded downtown area or an airport pick-up lane.
From an infrastructure perspective, some analysts indicate that the heightened volume of essentially single-occupancy (just one passenger) of ride-hailing is going to savage our streets and highways, tearing them up by the increased traffic flow, doing so at a faster pace than ever before.
All in all, this kind of false ridesharing (merely ride-hailing) is a downer, and something should be done about it.
Voila, one might exclaim, pundits tell us that a solution is indeed on the horizon.
Here’s the solution and a probing question about it: Will true self-driving cars finally bring about ridesharing and overcome the tendency of riders to do only ride-hailing?
Let’s unpack the matter.

        The Levels Of Self-Driving Cars
      
It is important to clarify what I mean when referring to true self-driving cars.
True self-driving cars are ones that the AI drives the car entirely on its own and there isn’t any human assistance during the driving task.
These driverless cars are considered a Level 4 and Level 5, while a car that requires a human driver to co-share the driving effort is usually considered at a Level 2 or Level 3. The cars that co-share the driving task are described as being semi-autonomous, and typically contain a variety of automated add-on’s that are referred to as ADAS (Advanced Driver-Assistance Systems).
There is not yet a true self-driving car at Level 5, which we don’t yet even know if this will be possible to achieve, and nor how long it will take to get there.
Meanwhile, the Level 4 efforts are gradually trying to get some traction by undergoing very narrow and selective public roadway trials, though there is controversy over whether this testing should be allowed per se (we are all life-or-death guinea pigs in an experiment taking place on our highways and byways, some point out).
Since the semi-autonomous cars require a human driver, such cars aren’t particularly going to alter the dynamics of the per capita occupancy aspects. There is essentially no difference between using a Level 2 or Level 3 versus a conventional car when it comes to the number of people that might be riding in the vehicle.
One assumes that the industry metric of the Average Vehicle Occupancy (AVO) will remain the same as it is today (unless other factors come to play that are outside of the fact that the car happens to be a Level 2 or Level 3).
It is notable to point out that in spite of those dolts that keep posting videos of themselves falling asleep at the wheel of a Level 2 or Level 3 car, do not be misled into believing that you can take away your attention from the driving task while driving a semi-autonomous car.
You are the responsible party for the driving actions of the car, regardless of how much automation might be tossed into a Level 2 or Level 3.

        What Happens With Autonomous Cars
      
A true self-driving car will not have a human driver since it is instead being driven by the AI system.
Yay!
We will henceforth be able to keep track of the number of passengers as its own measure and not need to include any accounting for a human driver.
You might be wondering why the pundits believe that driverless cars will boost the number of passengers per trip.
One aspect often cited involves the interior space availability of a true self-driving car.
Currently, the tryouts of driverless cars tend to involve a conventional car that has been augmented with self-driving tech capabilities. There is still a steering wheel, even though the AI doesn’t need it, and likewise there are pedals for braking and acceleration that aren’t needed either (the AI handles the driving controls under-the-hood, one might say).
Future designs of driverless cars are envisioned to rip out the driver’s seat and all the driving controls, freeing up the interior of soon to be high-tech cars.
You could put swivel seats into the opened-up space, allowing passengers to face each other or swivel in whatever direction they cared to look.
In theory, the redesigned seating and openness will encourage more people to ride together.
I’ll be the skeptic in the room and offer that just because you build it, you can’t also assume that people will use it in the manner that you dream of. All that openness could potentially go to waste.
Furthermore, some designs are incorporating seats that layout into beds, allowing you to catch a nap while heading to work. The seat-into-bed aspect could make a single occupant that much happier to have the space to stretch out and catch some needed shuteye. If so, you certainly don’t want a noisy or annoying fellow passenger that’s going to undermine your catnap.
Some believe that you’ll be working in your driverless car, doing so throughout the day. You’ll do so with work colleagues, all of you sitting in the swivel seats, perhaps arrayed around a small worktable, and be heading to various company offices, warehouses, and other locales.
One question to ask about these changes in passenger habits is whether this is going to take the place of existing trips or will it be more akin to induced demand that expands the number of trips?
Nobody knows.
Another rosy prediction via optimistic pundits is that people will get to know other people that they didn’t already know, doing so via the commuter-like aspects of sharing a driverless car ride.
Yes, you might do more of the Uber or Lyft style pooling once there are true self-driving cars, or you might not.
Ironically, the openness of the interior space of the car might cause people to be more reluctant to share the space.
Right now, in conventional cars, we all need to squeeze into our bucket seats and are kept tightly in place. It’s not easy to be overbearing or obnoxious, though some try.
With the added roominess inside driverless cars, will people become more insufferable in their seating and deployment of annoying habits?
On airplanes, we tend to be squeezed into seats, yet there is still the opportunity to get up and go to the bathroom or stretch your legs. This can be disruptive to fellow passengers that are seated near you. The same kind of surly attitudes and foul behavior that you see on planes or (even worse) subways trains might infect self-driving cars.
Imagine heated arguments over the use of a worktable or the uncaring outstretch of one’s legs that happens to bump up against another passenger. Rude behavior can arise in driverless cars just as it can anywhere else that people are forced into tight proximity of each other.
Not wanting to be overly pessimistic about human behavior, but it is also possible that people might physically confront or battle each other while inside a self-driving car.
Your first thought is that people don’t do so in conventional cars, so why would they suddenly change into beasts while inside a driverless car?
Keep in mind that there isn’t a human driver in a driverless car.
Those human drivers in everyday cars tend to be a highly visible yet silent signal that you should remain constrained and polite while inside the car. We are conditioned as a society that the driver is the captain of the ship and their dictum shapes our in-car behaviors.
Plus, in the back of our minds, we know that any disturbance in a human-driven car could distract the driver. If we distract the driver, they might run into a pole or crash into another car. Once again, the driver serves as an ever-present dampener of uncivilized activities inside the vehicle.
I’m not saying that all of today’s passengers are swayed by this logic, but it seems reasonable that most riders are.
In a driverless car, there is not a human driver to dampen the outrageous outbursts or bouts that might ensue.
Are we doomed to anarchy inside a self-driving car?
Probably the largest factor to curtail outlandish behavior will be the candid camera that’s likely to be included in a self-driving car.
Most self-driving cars will be outfitted with a camera that points inward, allowing for capturing on video of a rider that tries to trash the interior of the car. That same camera will be like Big Brother watching you, perhaps providing some semblance of behavioral guardrails, though unlike a human driver that can turn around and bop you, there’s not much the AI can do to stop the fisticuffs that might be taking place.
At least the AI can tattle on those that are getting into fits, and perhaps even route the driverless car to the nearest police station or rendezvous with a police car that’s nearby.

        Conclusion
      
An especially significant factor concerning the conundrum of ridesharing versus ride-hailing for self-driving cars will be the cost of riding in the driverless car.
Today’s human-driven ridesharing services are relatively inexpensive, partially due to the ridesharing services eating a chunk of the cost and wanting to build market share over profit right now.
Nobody is sure what the cost per ride or per mile will be to use a true self-driving car.
If the cost is relatively high, it would presumably shift people toward sharing rather than riding alone. Passengers might be willing to put up with the lack of privacy and the doldrums of being around other people, doing so to share the cost of using a driverless car.
There is an interesting calculus involved in this matter.
It is important to realize that self-driving cars will not suddenly overtake the existing population of cars. In the United States alone there are 250 million conventional cars, and those cars aren’t going to disappear overnight.
In short, there will be a mixture of human-driven cars and driverless cars, which will gradually and inexorably likely shift over time toward more and more driverless cars.
Meanwhile, you’ll be able to make a reasoned choice, namely do you use the self-driving car or a human-driven car for your ridesharing trips?
At first, people might be enamored of self-driving cars and seek to use a driverless car whenever they utilize ridesharing. My guess is that the initial excitement and novelty will wear-off. At that point, the cost will loom as the crucial factor (in essence, at first, the cost might be acceptably high, since people are getting the thrill of being inside a driverless car, part of the bargain for the heightened price).
Passengers will eventually be considering the day-to-day trade-off aspects of using an AI-driven car versus a human-driven car and assuming all else being equal, the cost might be the final arbiter.
Indeed, some pundits decry that self-driving cars will be only used by elites that can afford to do so (see my piece that debunks that one-sided argument and presents alternative views on the matter).
If we wave a magic wand and get people to behave and ride in driverless cars with their fellow humans, it might be possible to arrive at a vaunted modernized AVO of say 2, meaning that the average number of passengers has reached two (no drivers, two actual passengers).
This would be astounding since it would mean that in the aggregate, we would have to also counterbalance the rides of solo passengers by a like number of rides with three or more passengers.
Can we do it?
I’d like to hope so, but it’s probably not worth holding your breath over, since people will be people, and unless we undergo a dramatic cultural shift, it sure seems that people like to ride on their own.
Just them and their friendly AI driver.
