
# VIDEO | Harmanpreet Kaur pulls off incredible one-handed catch with left hand to deny Stefanie Taylor century

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:38:59+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/02/video-harmanpreet-kaur-pulls-off-incredible-one-handed-catch-with-left-hand-to-deny-stefanie-taylor-century?utm_medium=rss)


        While the level of fielding in India has undergone a huge change, Harmanpreet Kaur's stunning catch on Friday is one of a kind and is bound to leave the spectators speechless. Kaur plucked one out of thin air to deny Taylor a century and send her packing despite the ball destined to go for a six.
      
Amita Sharma’s forward-diving catch at mid-on against New Zealand to dismiss Amy Sattherwaite in the 2009 Women’s World Cup created a rage on Youtube and while it may seem a simple one now, a girl picking a catch like that in 2009 forced Wasim Akram to describe it as a “blinder” during commentary.
Since then, women’s cricket has gone on a complete metamorphosis and the level of fielding has surely developed, with the latest testimony being Harmanpreet Kaur’s stunning catch to dismiss West Indies' Stefanie Taylor.
In the first One-day International between India and West Indies in Antigua, Stefanie Taylor played one hell of an innings and was on course to complete her century. However, Ekta Bisht bowled a full toss on the stumps and it was as easy as it could get for Taylor to send that out of the park. And she did, almost.
While the ball was in the air and was well on course to cross the boundary ropes, Harmanpreet ran sideways from long-on at a rapid pace and jumped full stretch to pluck the ball out of thin air. What made it even more applaudable was the fact that she did it with her wrong hand. 
