
# Is Thought Leadership Everything It’s Cracked Up To Be?

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **John Hall**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/johnhall/2019/11/03/is-thought-leadership-everything-its-cracked-up-to-be/)

Although “thought leadership” has become a buzzword in recent years, the term was first coined in 1994 by Joel Kurtzman, the founding editor of Strategy+Business. “A thought leader is recognized by peers, customers and industry experts as someone who deeply understands the business they are in, the needs of their customers and the broader marketplace in which they operate,” explained Kurtzman. “They have distinctively original ideas, unique points of view and new insights.” Since then, that definition has evolved. Kelsey Raymond, my co-founder and the CEO at Influence & Co., describes a thought leader as an “industry expert who shares his or her expertise with a broader audience for the purpose of educating, improving, and adding value to the industry as a whole.”
Thought leaders aren’t just experts on their industries, but also their own businesses. “Thought leaders are people who fully immerse themselves in everything about their industries; they not only understand the inner workings of their businesses, but they also know their audiences and competitors to a T,” adds Raymond.
Most can agree that thought leaders are effective communicators who serve as an engaging resource for a specific audience. They also tend to be innovative and passionate agents of change. However, being a thought leader shouldn’t be taken lightly: Thought leadership is a serious investment that requires a lot of time and energy. 
To gain real ROI, make sure your thought leadership efforts cover these five bases: 

        Thought leadership builds trust and credibility. 
      
Think about how much trust influences your daily life. You’ll watch a new movie because the director has a proven track record of making excellent films. You’ll purchase specific brands because you’ve been satisfied with their quality in the past. And you’ll consume content like books, blog posts, and podcasts because the creator has frequently provided you with valuable information you’ve applied to your own work or life. 
As a thought leader, you’re helping and supporting others by sharing your experiences and knowledge — oftentimes, for free. As a result, you’re perceived as a trustworthy authority figure that people turn to when they need advice or guidance. This, in turn, will get you noticed by a new audience and help you achieve goals like driving traffic to your site, getting booked as a speaker, or boosting sales. 

        It helps you stand out. 
      
Not everyone is cut out to be a thought leader. Some just don’t have the time or desire. Others may want to play it safe and steer clear of making any potentially controversial comments. But if you have the drive and don’t mind occasionally ruffling some feathers, you’ll be able to gain a competitive edge. 
Of course, thought leadership doesn’t always mean that you need to be controversial. You could simply open up and tell stories about why you started your business or the mistakes you’ve made along the way. Not only does this help you connect with others, but it also underscores how you’re unique.  

        It aligns with your content marketing strategy.
      
You don’t always need to combine thought leadership and content marketing. But when you do, it can be dynamic. In fact, according to a survey by Edelman and LinkedIn, thought leadership is the key to gaining decision makers’ attention. It also generates more opportunities, increases admiration, and helps close more deals. 
If you decide to align thought leadership with your content marketing strategy, make sure you first get to know your audience so you can address their pain points and identify the type of content they prefer. When it comes to the content itself, make sure it’s valuable and authentic — a less-than-genuine vibe will kill the trust you may have earned. 

        It creates a culture of learning.
      
Personally, I believe this is an area that’s often overlooked. Let’s say you’ve created a brand that’s known for being on top of industry trends and delivering meaningful insights. It wouldn’t be out of the question for others to believe that those associated with you would also be considered thought leaders. If we’re the average of the five people we’re closest to, the people who work for you should be immersed in knowledge — and dispensing it — on a regular basis.
As a result of your thought leadership, you’ll create an environment in which your business partners and employees are continually learning and encouraged to develop creative ideas. This will not only inspire openness, but it will also spur innovation — a real competitive advantage.

        It’s self-sustaining. 
      
I’ll be honest: It takes a lot of work to establish yourself as a thought leader. But over time, that initial investment will pay off. For example, let’s say a blog post you wrote went viral on social media. That’s great for traffic. But then someone from a well-known industry publication spots it and asks you to write an article for his publication. The next thing you know, all of the past content you created is being discovered by a new audience and you’re getting a ton of requests. You’re being interviewed, asked to write content for even more publications, approached to speak at industry events, and invited to work with others in your field. In other words, thought leadership is the gift that keeps giving. 
Thought leadership can be a rewarding experience that comes with both short- and long-term benefits — but only if you use it effectively and are willing to put in the effort. Before going down this road, identify where your expertise lies and how it can be useful to others. Thought leadership only works if you work with what you’ve got.
