
# 12 bottles of wine arrive at space station for ageing experiment

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:39:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/world/12-bottles-of-wine-arrive-at-space-station-for-ageing-experiment-961848.html)

A dozen bottles of fine French wine have arrived at the International Space Station – but they are not for the astronauts.
The red wine will age for a year up there before returning to Earth, and researchers will study how weightlessness and space radiation affect the ageing process.
The goal is to develop new flavors and properties for the food industry.
The bottles were flown up aboard a Northrop Grumman capsule that launched from Virginia on Saturday and arrived at the ISS on Monday. Each bottle was packed in a metal canister to prevent breakage.
Universities in Bordeaux, France, and Bavaria, Germany, are taking part in the experiment by Space Cargo Unlimited, a Luxembourg start-up.
Winemaking uses yeast and bacteria, and involves chemical processes, making wine ideal for space study, said University of Erlangen-Nuremberg’s Michael Lebert, the experiment’s scientific director.
This is the first of six space missions planned by the company over the next three years touching on the future of agriculture.
“This is a once-in-a-lifetime adventure,” said Nicolas Gaume, chief executive and co-founder of Space Cargo Unlimited.
Nasa is opening the space station to more business opportunities like this and eventually even private astronaut missions.
