
# Pervert filmed crawling on hotel corridor to hear couples having sex in rooms

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:50:04+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/pervert-filmed-crawling-hotel-corridor-20816978)

A man was caught wandering hotel corridors to record the sounds of couples having sex in their rooms.
Ms Tang and her boyfriend were staying at a hotel in Jiangjin district of Chongqing, south-west China, in October when they realised a shadow moving outside their room door in the middle of the night.
They alerted the police the next morning and officers reviewed the CCTV footage at the hotel to find a man crawling at the corridor, according to KuaiBao .
Footage also captures the man taking his mobile phone out and placing it close to the door, seemingly to audio-record sounds coming from the room.
 
He checks his phone before moving to the next room.
Shuangfu Police traced the footage and arrested a 28-year-old man, known by the surname He, on suspicion of invasion of privacy last Tuesday.
 
Mr He, from Xishui, Guizhou province, claimed he stayed a night at the same hotel and heard his neighbour romping in the room next door.
A spokesman for Shuangfu Police told Pear, a video-sharing website: "Mr He said he saw a man eavesdropping outside the couple's room when he walked to the corridor.
"The man saw Mr He and walked away and Mr He copied the man's move and found himself getting addicted to it.
"He did this to satisfy his physical and psychological needs."
Mr He also told the police he had returned to the hotel several times in a bid to record other couples' intimate moments.
He has since been jailed for five days, according to local authorities.
