
# EICMA 2019: Benelli Leoncino 800 showcased along with 800 Trail

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:58:28+00:00**

Author: **Aditya Chatterjee  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/eicma-2019-benelli-leoncino-800-showcased-along-with-800-trail/)

The EICMA 2019 show has been witnessing an interesting line-up by various motorcycle manufacturers from all over the world. Among the ones that have established their presence is Benelli. The company has showcased the Leoncino 800 along with its Trail sibling. The overall styling is similar to the Leoncino 500 where retro is the main theme behind the design. But then there's more to it. Here are the details of the all-new Benelli Leoncino 800 and 800 Trail.
The Leoncino 800 is based on the twin-cylinder in-line 754cc engine capable of 81.6PS, which results perfectly integrated into the steel trellis frame. The torque rating of this motor is believed to be 67Nm mated to a 6-speed gearbox. This mechanical element features 50mm Marzocchi forks along with Brembo radial calipers. The front shocks come with compression and preload adjust ability while the rear only gets preload adjustment. The Leoncino 800 makes use of a 320mm dual disc front and 260mm rear disc brakes. The Benelli Leoncino 800 comes with 17-inch wheels and lower positioned exhaust. The Trail version recalls immediately the Scrambler models and is characterised by a 19-inch front wheel, high exhaust and suspension system featuring an increased travel. The features list includes LED headlight and TFT instrumentation.
We believe Benelli will bring both, Leoncino 800 and its Trail sibling to India at some point in time next year. It will rival the Scrambler offerings from Triumph and Ducati in the country.
