
# KSI's brother Deji branded a Logan Paul fanboy by his own parents ahead of rematch

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:34:36+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/ksis-brother-deji-branded-logan-20812166)

KSI's parents have branded his brother Deji a " Logan Paul fanboy" ahead of their rematch this coming weekend.
The Youtube stars are preparing to touch gloves for a second time at the Los Angeles Staples Center on Saturday in a repeat of their bout last year.
And in the lead up to the much-anticipated fight, Deji quizzed his parents on the contestants, which included questions like 'Who has got more heart?' and others related to size, and number of Youtube viewers on their respective accounts.
After five of the answers in a row were in favour of KSI's opponent, his dad Jide quipped at Deji: "Are you a Logan fanboy? All these questions, all Logan questions."
Wife Yinka agreed, and said: "Sounds like it, yeah!"
Deji was quick to hit back, asking: "How am I a Logan fanboy?!"
The 22-year-old then made threats at posing his parents more taxing questions.
He has gone back on his earlier prediction that Logan has the advantage over his brother, and since claimed that KSI will win the fight.
The two brothers have been involved in a feud with each other in the past, after Deji produced a diss track aimed at KSI's cameraman and fellow Youtuber Randolph.
Deji's track claimed that KSI paid £4000 towards Randolph's wedding, calling him a "b****" which led to him being blocked on social media by his brother.
In response, Deji tweeted proof of his blocking, and wrote: "Family always has your back."
His brother responded by saying: "Get rid of negative troublesome delusional people. Even if they're family."
KSI - real name Olajide ‘JJ’ Olatunji - claimed Deji had made his life hell during the row last Christmas, and it is not known whether their issues are completely resolved.
Meanwhile Billy-Joe Saunders has defended his appearance on the undercard of the celebrity bout, where he will put his WBO world super-middleweight title on the line against Marcelo Esteban Coceres.
"I am looking forward to it because it is my American debut," he said. "I am up for the challenge and I am going over there to put my name out.
"There would not be much point in sending me out there as chief-support on a 4,000-seater fight when I can go to LA in front of a sold-out 20,000 with two guys who had 10million views for their press conference.
"If I can take five or 10 per cent of their crowd with a good performance then I am establishing my name in America and giving myself a better chance of getting a Gennady Golovkin or Canelo Alvarez.
"I hadn’t heard of KSI or Logan Paul but people should take their hat off to them because they have come from nowhere. That demands respect because they have both done great business.
