
# 'Cracking player' - This Aston Villa hopeful has been hailed

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:22:55+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-news-hepburn-murphy-17193965)

Rushian Hepburn-Murphy grabbed his Tranmere Rovers opportunity with open arms – with the striker netting a superb hat-trick against MK Dons.
Before Saturday, the 21-year-old was yet to open his account for Rovers since joining the League One side on loan from Aston Villa in August.
Hepburn-Murphy has been made to be patient this season with his start against the Dons only his third of the campaign so far.
But he struck once in the first-half and twice in the second period to net his first career hat-trick at senior level and hand his side a vital three points to guide them away from the drop zone.
 
Tranmere boss Micky Mellon was full of praise afterwards, telling the Liverpool Echo: “He’s deserved his opportunity. We haven’t quite been able to give him his opportunity because we wanted to give other people a longer go at it, to try and do what we did today - and that’s to get a striker scoring goals.
"He’s come in and has been terrific. He’s been great since he came here, and I’m pleased for him that he took his chance.
“He’s a cracking player and trains so hard all the time. We felt we had to do something different against MK Dons, and we’re grateful that he has made that decision look right. He’s gone and got a hat-trick, so every credit to him.”
Hepburn-Murphy, who scored twice in 16 appearances on loan at Cambridge United in League Two last season, was involved in Dean Smith's squad during pre-season, but last played competitively for Villa as a late substitute in a 2-2 home draw with Brentford last August.
