
# BREAKING Car goes off cliff and lands on beach as huge rescue operation takes place

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:19:58+00:00**

Author: **Mirror.co.uk**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-car-goes-cliff-lands-20823132)

A man has been seriously injured after a car plunged over a cliff and landed on a beach in Sidmouth, Devon.
Emergency services were called to the scene shortly before 9.30am.
A Devon and Cornwall police spokesperson said: "All emergency services were called at 9.25am this morning following reports a car went over a cliff in Sidmouth.
"The vehicle has gone over in a place at Peak Hill Road and landed on the beach.
"One man is seriously injured.
"Police, coastguard, ambulance, coastguard helicopter and lifeboats are all at the scene.
"Road closures are in place at Peak Hill Road and Manor Road. The public have been stopped going onto the beach at Jacobs Ladder."
We'll be bringing you the very latest updates, pictures and video on this breaking news story.
Please check back regularly for updates on this developing story here at  Mirror.co.uk .
For the latest news and breaking news visit  Mirror.co.uk/news .
Get all the big headlines, pictures, analysis, opinion and video on the stories that matter to you.
Follow us on Twitter  @DailyMirror - the official Daily Mirror & Mirror Online Twitter account - real news in real time.
We're also on Facebook /dailymirror - your must-see news, features, videos and pictures throughout the day from the Daily Mirror, Sunday Mirror and Mirror Online.
