
# Strangers' act of kindness helps to reshape baby boy's skull

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Jess Morcom**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/strangers-act-kindness-helps-reshape-3506324)

A young Plymouth mum who started a JustGiving page to pay for treatment for her five-month-old son whose head needed reshaping has now raised enough funds for a helmet for him - thanks to the kind generosity of strangers.
Just two weeks ago, Plymouth Live reported the story of Charlotte Trevethan's son Noah, who was born with a mishapen head, known as positional plagiocephaly.
This can be a mild or severe flat spot on the back or side of a baby’s head, usually caused by pressure on the bones of the skull before or after birth.
Noah suffers from coronal synostosis, which causes the normal forehead and brow to stop growing.
Often the problem corrects itself, but Noah's condition is severe, and Charlotte, 20 and her partner Jake were originally told that the helmet therapy needed to correct their son's skull was unavailable to them on the NHS.
It was then that they set about attempting to raise £2,000 to get a specialised helmet for Noah.
"I went to multiple GP's who at first told me that Noah's head shape was normal", Charlotte told Plymouth Live in October.
"It was put down to him being stuck for a while during delivery. We were told it would calm down and sort itself out, but it never did.
"We then had a consultation with a specialist in Bristol who told us that Noah's condition is so severe it was off the chart. He will need two lots of helmet therapy to help remould his head, where most babies only need one.
"The NHS don't fund this treatment as it is classed as cosmetic, and each helmet costs £2000.
"As a young mum I simply do not have this money, but I wouldn't forgive myself if I didn't at least try to raise the funds, when it comes to your children you want to do anything for them."
Without the helmet therapy, it was feared Noah would need jaw realignment or end up with curvature of the spine and problems with his neck later in life.
In just a matter of days donation from friends, family and kindhearted strangers flooded in and yesterday Noah was given his first helmet.
The idea of the helmet is to ensure it fits snugly on the round parts of a baby's head but looser on the flat parts, giving them more room to expand as the baby's head grows, correcting the shape.
"We are forever grateful to everyone that helped us," Charlotte said.
"They don't know us and didn't have to give anything but they did and the pure kindness from complete strangers to help my little boy is something that will stick with me forever. I'll be passing on acts of kindness wherever I go from now on."
Noah will wear his new helmet for around six months with fortnightly check ups at Bristol Children's Hospital.
"Noah second helmet will be in place in around six months," Charlotte added.
"But this first helmet is a step in the right direction.
"As he was over the chart on severity this first helmet will bring Noah's condition down into the red category and in the future we can hopefully bring him into the yellow/amber zone.
"His head may never be normal, but now it will never be as bad as it was.
"I am so happy at the generosity that has been shown, I don't think words will ever be enough to thank everyone.
"Strangers and their good hearts have helped me and my little boy, and hopefully one day the therapy will be available on the NHS to help other parents and their little ones too. "
