
# Young artists in love: Director Brenna Corner returns to Calgary to direct Puccini's La Boheme

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:13:58+00:00**

Author: **Eric Volmers**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/entertainment/local-arts/young-artists-in-love-director-brenna-corner-returns-to-calgary-to-direct-puccinis-la-boheme)

Brenna Corner can relate to the starving, 19th-century Parisian artists at the heart of Giacomo Puccini’s La Boheme.
Sure, there’s nearly a two-century gap. But as a young artist setting out from Calgary to conquer the world, Corner felt a similar spirit of excitement when contemplating a life in the arts.
“The passion for the art you are creating and the fun that exists in that, I definitely remember that,” says Corner, who is making her Calgary Opera directing debut with La Boheme.“As an artist, I think that’s the thing that I love about this piece. All those things exist in it.”
It’s part of what makes La Boheme, which was updated to become the basis of the Broadway musical Rent, so timeless. And not just for young artists.
“They were this group of people who were trying in their own small way to throw off the expectations of life,” Corner says. “They were trying to change their own individual worlds and it’s that belief when you’re young that you can do that. It’s what we all have when we’re 19 or 20 and believe we will go out into the world and will change it.”
Puccini’s four-act opera is one of the most famous and accessible n the repertoire, offering a simple tale that veers from joyful and playful to tragic and melodramatic. It also offers some of opera’s most recognizable and beloved arias, from Rodolfo’s Che gelida manina to Mimi’s Si, mi chiamano Mimi. All of this makes it suitable for Calgary Opera’s Nov. 9 season opener, sure to attract devotees while also offering novices a gateway into this world.
“It’s really accessible because it is a love story and it’s a beautiful, beautiful love story,” says Corner. “And it’s about normal people, it’s not about gods or goddesses or anything like that. It’s about four poor dudes just out of school trying to make it as artists and they fall in love.”
Rodolfo (Montreal tenor Antoine Belanger) is a poet and bohemian living in a Parisian flat he shares with painter Marcello (baritone Peter Barrett), among others. As they fight bitter cold and poverty, they become entangled in the lives of their true loves. For Rodolfo, that’s the seamstress next door, Mimi (soprano Miriam Khalil), whom he just discovered. For Marcello, it’s the flirtatious Musetta (soprano Joanna Latini), with whom he has a long romantic history. As is often the case with romantic operas, things do not end well. The young artists deal with jealousy, poverty, illness and, eventually, death.
“It’s about learning life and what you have to do to survive,” says Belanger. “A big part of the learning is how they react to death. They are really young to face this and it’s brand new. They didn’t think about it because they are so young.”
Belanger, who was last seen in the city as Don Jose in a 2015 production of Carmen, performed the role of Rodolfo in Calgary Opera’s 2012 production of La Boheme. In fact, he has now sung the role six times for various companies.
“You always find something new,” Belanger says. “You have new people around you. The cast is a very new one and everyone has their own way of doing a character. For me, it’s always a pleasure. Even with Carmen, I’ve done Carmen often, it’s always a new beginning and the music is so beautiful.”
Unlike Belanger, this is Corner’s first experience with La Boheme, although she has a long history with Calgary Opera. As a young child, it was where she saw her first production, although admits she was too young to remember what it was. But she does have clear memories of her first time on stage in the 1990s production of Puccini’s Tosca as a youthful but determined performer. She wasn’t yet 10 years old.
“I was so excited,” she says. “I walked on stage and I threw those flowers on the floor with all the pomp and grace that I could muster.”
In 2003, The Calgary Herald profiled Corner as part of its Class Act series, which revealed her to be an ambitious 17-year-old with the career goal of being a “Broadway actress.” At that time, she was about to begin post-secondary studies at Grant McEwan College in music theatre. But her career was nearly derailed in 2008, when a car accident in Edmonton led to vocal paresis, a partial paralysis of the voice box. She realized she would need a Plan B.
“I figured that I wasn’t going to be able to sing again because it kind of feels like a cheese grater in my throat when I do,” she says. “I thought, ‘How do I still participate in this thing that I love?’ All of sudden people started asking me to help them dramatically on a song or work on a scene for them. All of a sudden I was getting opportunities to direct.”
Six years ago, she returned to Calgary Opera as an assistant director before moving to Vancouver. In 2016, she made her main stage directorial debut for Vancouver Opera with Hansel and Gretel, a collaboration with Calgary’s Old Trout Puppet Workshop. Since then she has directed Pygmalion and Sweeney Todd for New Orleans Opera, Der fliegende Höllander for Cincinnati Opera and Carmen at Atlanta Opera. She now lives in Georgia.
“I want to tell beautiful stories and I want to help artists tell beautiful stories,” Corner says. “Opera can sometimes get a bad rap about being stodgy or old or hard to get into. But I don’t think that’s true. I just think we have to push ourselves to create ways of telling these stories that resonate with an audience. That’s the thing I’m really eager to do, figuring out what that is.”

        Calgary Opera’s La Boheme will be performed Nov. 9,  13 and 15 at 7:30 p.m. at the Southern Alberta Jubilee Auditorium.
      
