
# Disha Patani on working with Salman Khan in ‘Radhe’: An actor is an actor, irrespective of their age

Published at: **2019-11-07T02:49:25+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/disha-patani-on-working-with-salman-khan-in-radhe-an-actor-is-an-actor-irrespective-of-their-age/articleshow/71948105.cms)

Disha Patani is reuniting with Salman Khan for ‘Radhe’, having romanced the actor in ‘Bharat’ which released earlier this year. As Salman Khan turns into ‘Your Most Wanted Bhai’ for ‘Radhe’, he will be seen romancing Disha and the actress is elated to reunite with him. In an interview with a daily Disha tagged Salman Khan as a Santa Claus who brings joy and happiness to his fans. Disha is romancing an actor who is more than two decades older to her but she has no reservations and stated that an actor is an actor irrespective of their age and that everyone is unique as each one has their own special skill.
Earlier when Disha was offered ‘Bharat’ the actress had stated that this was the only opportunity for her to work with Salman and that she had no idea if they would ever collaborate in the future. “Ali sir (director of Bharat) called me with a role which is more of a special appearance. I heard him out and since the character is that of a trapeze artiste alongside Salman sir, I came on board. Honestly, I don’t know if I will ever get to work with Salman sir again. Even Ali sir told me this while narrating the script," Disha had told Mumbai Mirror.
But the opportunity soon presented itself as the actress is back to romancing Salman Khan on the silver screen. Directed by Prabhudeva, ‘Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai’ is scheduled to hit the screens during Eid 2020.
