
# Launch a Career in DevOps and Deployment with This $39 Training Bundle

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:41:00+00:00**

Author: **XDA Commerce Team**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/launch-a-career-in-devops-and-deployment-with-this-39-training-bundle/)

With thousands of major new apps going live every day, DevOps engineers are in demand. This role is perfect for anyone who loves a challenge, and experienced professionals can earn six figures. If that sounds like an attractive package, the Complete DevOps & Deployment Technologies Bundle can help you get started. The bundle includes 48 hours of training, providing the perfect launchpad for your new career. You can get the training now for just $39 at the XDA Developers Depot.
DevOps is actually a workflow used by development teams to deliver updates faster and keep things running smoothly. To become a DevOps engineer, you need a variety of skills. This bundle covers the technical side, with seven beginner-friendly courses.
Through hands-on video tutorials, you learn how to use a variety of tools to deploy software. For instance, you discover how to create virtual environments with Vagrant, how to code custom cloud architecture with Chef, and how to containerize your software with Docker. The training also covers Ansible, Jenkins, Git, and more.
This knowledge is essential for any aspiring DevOps engineer. In addition, the bundle provides a great introduction to cloud computing.
These courses are worth $290 in total, but you can grab them now for just $39.

        Prices subject to change.
      

         
      

        The Complete DevOps & Deployment Technologies Bundle – $39
        
        
        See Deal
      
