
# IND vs BAN | Bangladesh outplayed us in Delhi but India ready to bounce back, asserts Yuzvendra Chahal

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:20:32+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/bangladesh-outplayed-us-in-delhi-but-india-ready-to-bounce-back-asserts-yuzvendra-chahal?utm_medium=rss)


        Despite losing the first game in the three-match T20I series, Yuzvendra Chahal is confident that India will bounce back in the 2nd T20I and admitted that the Delhi game belonged to Bangladesh. The spinner also heavily appreciated Mushfiqur Rahim, who top-scored in the game with his 43-ball 60.
      
According to Chahal, the seven-wicket victory by Bangladesh over India in Delhi does not mean there’s any added pressure on the hosts. The spinner feels that it can be anybody’s day in a bilateral series and urged everyone to praise Bangladesh for their efforts. 
“First of all, we should appreciate Bangladesh, who played really well. We know we’re the better team but in the last few matches as we’ve seen they gave us a good fight, like a proper fight,” Chahal told reporters in a press conference held on Tuesday. “We should really appreciate because they played really well, especially Mushfiqur Rahim he batted elegantly,” he added.
Chahal is entirely confident of India bouncing back in the series in the second game scheduled on November 7, in Rajkot. 
“And it’s not about the pressure since it’s a three-match series and we’re only 1 down. Obviously, we believe in ourselves and we will bounce back. There is no pressure at all as this is only a three-match series and in a bilateral series, one team wins and the other loses on a day. That they played better compared to us," he urged.
“The wicket wasn’t that easy, and Bangladesh having won the toss chose to field first we had to bat in the first innings. We did put up a decent total but then Bangladesh kept their wickets safe for a longer time and we did miss some catches, some opportunities. Well to look at it this way, they played better than us,” believes Chahal.
When asked about Bangladesh’s young legspinner, Aminul Islam, who played his 2nd T20 International against India, Chahal said that he must have good domestic experience due to which he bowled well and picked 2 wickets in Delhi. “Aminul Islam bowled very well, in three overs he two wickets. He bowled really well,” said Chahal.
Speaking about the strength of his leg-spin, Chahal, who produced figures of 4-0-24-1 in the first T20I, said that it’s his varying pace that troubled the batters. “The pace varies when I ball since if you bowl all deliveries at the same pace then it gets easy for the batsman. Moreover, the wicket was as such that the ball was turning at both slow and fast pace. Especially on a dead wicket, you have to vary your length. But my strength has always been varying in pace,” the legspinner asserted.
