
# Is Joey Logano The Bill Laimbeer Of NASCAR?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Andy Frye**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/andyfrye/2019/11/01/is-joey-logano-the-bill-laimbeer-of-nascar/)

Last Sunday at Martinsville Speedway wasn’t the first occasion in which reigning NASCAR Cup Series champion Joey Logano got into an altercation with another driver.
This time, it was with Denny Hamlin, after the First Data 500. Whatever you might think about the driving styles of either Logano or Hamlin, scuffles with the mild-mannered #11 driver for Joe Gibbs Racing might not be something you’d bet on. That said, the two drivers have got into it before.
Sunday’s particular throw-down came right after conversations between the two, subsequent to a race in which Logano took an 8th place finish and Hamlin took 4th place. One minute Hamlin and Logano looked to be simply talking, albeit each with a serious look in their eyes, and the next moment a full-team brawl started. Whatever push Hamlin and his car gave in the final laps of the race, Logano didn’t take kindly to it. After a slap (or a nudge, depending on your purview) to Hamlin’s shoulder, hostilities followed from there.

        
          Tough guy, or mastermind?
        
      
Race performance and competitive instincts aside, Logano doesn't exactly fit the standard sketch of a tough guy. Tall and slight, sometimes seen in glasses, the 29-year-old Connecticut born and raised racer for Team Penske is hardly reminiscent of the big-shouldered, street fighters of the past, such as former New York Knicks forward Charles Oakley or any of the 1980s Philadelphia Flyers. During media junkets and post-race interviews, Logano is about as eloquent and measured as anyone who has ever commented.
Yet, after a string of fights over the years with top drivers spanning the likes of Kyle Busch and three-time Cup Series champion Tony Stewart, not to mention last weekend’s spat with Hamlin, you have to wonder if the aggressive tactics—both in and out of the car—are just part of a consistent, premeditated strategy by Logano to get into competitors’ heads. Logano’s fans could, of course, argue that the bravado seen off the race course goes perfectly with Logano’s track record of winning on it. Some race fans see Logano as an exciting spark in NASCAR, others see him as a punk.
Another champion of his respective sport with a similar disposition was Detroit Pistons center Bill Laimbeer. Sometimes Logano’s way remind me of the NBA big man.
Laimbeer, who averaged 12.9 points per game and 9.7 rebounds over 13 NBA seasons, was an integral part of the 1980s Pistons “Bad Boys” team that won back-to-back NBA championships. Laimbeer’s physical style plus his willingness to throw elbows at other players, from the newbie to the future Hall of Fame player like Magic Johnson and Larry Bird, got him the well-earned reputation as the dirtiest player in the game.

        VIDEO: NASCAR legend Tony Stewart’s fisticuffs and colorful language at Joey Logano after the Auto Club 400 in 2013.
      
For certain, the name Bill Laimbeer is not exactly top-of-mind for younger sports fans. But the 6 foot 11 center was famed for his physical battles with almost every player he touched. Whether the opponent was the great maestro Michael Jordan or players more ready to brawl, like Charles Barkley or the entire ‘80s Boston Celtics team, Laimbeer played the same way every game he played. While some NBA observes saw Laimbeer aka “His Heinous” as a little more than street thug in high-tops, Laimbeer can be credited for helping the Pistons consistently push rivals to the brink. From Laimbeer’s example, one-time teammate Dennis Rodman took up his own mantle as chief agitator, and carried it to Jordan’s Chicago Bulls team, helping them win three consecutive titles.
It’s true that sports fans of all stripes—whether you’re into stick-and-ball games or motorsports—do enjoy a little confrontation now and again. Rodney Dangerfield once famously said, “I went to a fight the other night, and a hockey game broke out.” That’s a classic line from a comic legend, but it also points to the fact that Americana love a little dirt thrown into their sports.
Looking back, too, it’s probably no surprise that a decade ago Logano, then NASCAR’s newest star, made a televised appearance on WWE Raw, with then-teammate Kyle Busch. Late last year after bagging the Cup Series championship, Logano also tweeted that he doesn’t mind being racing’s bad boy.
Now, a decade after Logano’s rousing rookie debut, old habits die hard. Logano is no longer a young driver, but a veteran set in his ways. Moreover, NASCAR is no less competitive, and hardly less physical, than any other professional sport.
Like it or not, the driver with a chip on his shoulder, if not the occasional dose of disrespect, is just part of the sport today. Logano and all of his competitors are keenly aware of that fact.
