
# Panicked Jennifer Aniston swears on This Morning after Alison Hammond's surprise

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:23:13+00:00**

Author: **Kyle O&#39;Sullivan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/kyle-osullivan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/panicked-jennifer-aniston-swears-morning-20808170)

Jennifer Aniston swore on today's This Morning after watching Alison Hammond's surprise clips.
The much-loved presenter caught up with the Friends star and Reese Witherspoon to discuss their new series - The Morning Show.
Alison, who knows a lot about daytime TV, gave the Hollywood actresses some pointers and asked whether they had done any research into her role.
Jennifer said: "You especially. This is how good I am. You didn’t notice the following I did of you. That's how much of a shadow I am."
The actresses then watched some classic This Morning clips and had to decide whether they were fake or not, which led to Jen's shock outburst.
They refused to believe that This Morning would air a knife thrower's assistant being hit in the head during a stunt.
So the pair were horrified when they saw the shocking clip - with Jennifer turning the air blue.
Alison explained: "That actually happened. She was OK. Nobody was hurt."
Jennifer and Reese were then left open-mouthed when they saw footage of Gino D'Acampo cooking naked in the studio.
Reese, who asked what angle Alison watched it from, confessed: "I’m starting to think this is the craziest show in the world."
This Morning actually features in the background of the actresses' new Apple+ series - The Morning Show.
This Morning viewers pointed out that presenters Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby were on the TV in a scene.
Dr Chris Steele is also seen in the clip when Jennifer's character goes on a rant in the newsroom, but Jennifer's head blocks a bit of the screen.
As they watched the moment, Phillip said: "Thee you do. Duck, Jen. Duck, woman."

        *This Morning airs weekdays on ITV at 10.30am
      
