
# What UK time is Rugby World Cup Final 2019? England vs South Africa kick-off time

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/what-uk-time-rugby-world-20786893)

England are the bookmakers' favourites heading into the Rugby World Cup Final.
South Africa stand in England's way of their second-ever world title - and already have a victory over the Red Rose in this fixture.
Back in 2007, they broke English hearts to claim the title of being world champions.
But England are a different prospect now, as Eddie Jones faces his day with destiny after four years of preparation for this very day.
Here is all you need to know ahead of the match...
The Rugby World Cup Final between England and South Africa takes place on the morning of Saturday November 2.
Kick-off, for those in the UK, will be at 9am.
The International Stadium Yokohama will be hosting the World Cup Final.
A sell-out crowd of over 72,000 people are expected to be in attendance for the game.
For those in the UK, the Rugby World Cup Final will again be shown on ITV.
Coverage begins two hours before kick-off, with punditry starting from 7am.
You certainly can, providing that you are in the UK.
ITV can be streamed on their website if you click on the 'watch live' tab on their homepage.
Starting: Elliot Daly; Anthony Watson, Manu Tuilagi, Owen Farrell, Jonny May, George Ford, Ben Youngs; Mako Vunipola, Jamie George, Kyle Sinckler, Maro Itoje, Courtney Lawes, Tom Curry, Sam Underhill, Billy Vunipola
Replacements:  Luke Cowan-Dickie, Joe Marler, Dan Cole, George Kruis, Mark Wilson, Ben Spencer, Henry Slade, Jonathan Joseph
Starting : Willie Le Roux, Cheslin Kolbe, Lukhanyo Am, Damian de Allende, Makazole Mapimpi, Handre Pollard, Faf de Klerk, Duane Vermeulen, Pieter-Steph Du Toit, Siya Kolisi, Lood de Jager, Eben Etzebeth, Frans Malherbe, Mbongeni Mbonambi, Tendai Mtawarira
Replacements: Malcolm Marx, Steven Kitshoff, Vincent Koch, RG Snyman, Franco Mostert, Francois Louw, Herschel Jantjies, Frans Steyn.

        Odds courtesy of ThePools.com
      

        Buy the official programme for the Rugby World Cup final for just £10 at reachsportshop.com
      
