
# Report | Adam Lallana wanted to move in China and MLS

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:27:09+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/04/report-adam-lallana-wanted-in-china-and-mls?utm_medium=rss)


        Liverpool midfielder Adam Lallana has emerged as a target for Chinese and Major League Soccer clubs as his contract at the Merseyside is set to expire at the end of the season. The Englishman is not a key member for Jurgen Klopp’s squad and may consider leaving once his contract runs out.
      
According to English outlet Telegraph, Liverpool player Adam Lallana has attracted interest from China and the United States as his contract will expire at the end of this season. He has seven months left on his current contract and will be free to negotiate with foreign clubs from January 1. Several MLS clubs are looking to add a player with European experience under his belt to their squad. The report further added that Lallana hasn’t been offered a new deal yet, but will be offered a short contract soon. 
Liverpool might also decide to cash in on the 31-year-old star in January in order to make room in the squad and generate funds for future investments. Liverpool are reportedly looking to buy a forward to provide support to Mohamed Salah, Roberto Firmino, and Sadio Mane. Manager Jurgen Klopp has admired the former Southampton player’s skills and ability to play in a number of positions and are still deciding on whether a new contract will be offered to him or not.
Adam Lallana joined Liverpool from Southampton in 2014 for a fee of £25 million and since then has been a hard-working squad player. The England international has played 164 games for the Reds and scored 22 goals. The 31-year-old is likely to be offered longer terms and the promise of more regular football away from Anfield and may review his options early next year.
Lallana was a starter in Liverpool’s trip to Aston Villa as the Merseyside completed a sensational comeback to win the game 2-1. However, this was only his 8th appearance this season as Klopp prefers others over the English midfielder prompting him to think of going away from Anfield in order to get playing time.
