
# Honda to launch 5 new premium bikes in India

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nishmanya Bahadur**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/honda-to-expand-its-premium-bigwing-range-in-phase-2-414780)

Honda will expand the current 7-bike, BigWing line-up to comprise 13 models, including 5 brand-new bikes in this phase 2 expansion.
Honda has just announced that it will be expanding premium motorcycle arm, called Honda BigWing, in its phase 2 plans. The expansion will see the number of bikes under the BigWing grow from the existing seven models to 13 – including five all-new bikes. There are even talks of some of these big bikes being manufactured in India, which will significantly help reduce costs and give Honda the ability to position them competitively in our market.
On the occasion, Yadvinder Singh Guleria, senior vice president of sales and marketing, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt. Ltd. said
“Globally Honda has a strong legacy of fun riding – be it for fun urban riding, super-sport racing, luxurious touring or even off-roading. Starting April 2019, Honda spearheaded its new premium bike business identity under the silver wing mark branded as Honda BigWing. Honda will unleash phase 2 of its premium business vertical in the new BS6 era. Customers can expect double the fun with 13 iconic global models including five brand new models. This will be supported by exclusive Honda BigWing network for sales and service in 75 cities.”
Honda has unveiled four new bikes at EICMA 2019, which will be headed to our market soon – the CBR1000RR-R Fireblade and the CBR1000RR-R Fireblade SP, along with the CRF1100L Africa Twin Adventure Sports and the new Rebel 500.

        Also see:
      

        
          First Honda BigWing showroom inaugurated in India
        
      
