
# Teen mum too young to drive heartbroken as baby sent to hospital 35 miles away

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:46:35+00:00**

Author: **Mirror.co.uk**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/teen-mum-young-drive-heartbroken-20786644)

A teenage mum who is too young to drive says she has missed out on her daughter's first weeks after the desperately-ill baby was sent to a hospital 35 miles away.
Lucy Kidd, 15, gave birth to little Harper - weighing 2lb 3oz - but the tot was transferred to another hospital soon after.
Harper had been delivered prematurely by emergency C-section at the Royal Stoke University Hospital on September 27.
Lucy was told the newborn would be switched to a hospital in Telford, Shropshire, as there were not enough beds.
 
Lucy says she was assured by her consultant that she would also be able to stay with Harper at the hospital in a family room.
But when she got to Telford there were none available, reports Stoke-on-Trent Live .
Lucy says she has been forced to rely on her dad for lifts as getting there from her home would require travelling on four separate bus services.
At one point the family were going to stage a protest outside Royal Stoke's maternity unit before Harper was finally moved back.
Lucy, from Sandford, Stoke-on-Trent said: "When Harper was two days old the consultant woke me up at midnight and told me that Harper would be moved to Telford because Royal Stoke was too full to have her and she will have to stay there until December 10.
 
"I was discharged the next day from Royal Stoke and the consultant promised that I would have a family room at Telford Hospital where I could stay with Harper.
"But when I got there they said there were no family rooms available. Telford hospital was really good trying to get us in the family room on the odd days but they couldn't have us every day.
"The hospital booked us a hotel for the odd nights but otherwise we had to travel there and back.
"My dad has had to give up some work in Scotland to bring us to and from the hospital every day because he's the only one who drives in the family. It's a 70-mile round trip and it cost him a lot in petrol, parking and food.
"In just two weeks my dad did 2,000 miles in his car. The family have been helping each other out but it's been really difficult, it's horrible. I wouldn't wish it on anyone." 
As Harper was born prematurely she is currently suffering with Necrotizing Enterocolitis (NEC) and Lucy was terrified she could take a turn for the worse while she was stuck in Stoke-on-Trent.
She added: "Harper is so tiny and if anything could have happened to her when we were in Stoke-on-Trent and we wouldn't have been able to get to her quickly because it takes an hour-and-a-half to get there.
"My dad doesn't finish work until 5pm so I was only able to go and see her for about three hours a day in the evening. Originally I was going to miss out on the first few months of her life although thankfully she's back here now.
"I do feel I missed out though because I could have bonded with her a lot more at Royal Stoke.
"If she had stayed in Stoke-on-Trent my nana's house is within walking distance of the hospital and I could have been with her all day."
Lucy says Telford hospital rang Royal Stoke every day to check if space had become available but were repeatedly told  'not today, maybe tomorrow'.
It was October 22 - nearly four weeks after Harper was born - that she was moved to Stoke-on-Trent.
Lucy added: "It was only when we contacted PALS  that she was moved here."
A Just Giving page had been set up to raise money to fund Lucy's travel to and from Telford and it had reached £177.
Lucy's mum Joanne Baker says it was a 'nightmare' while Harper was in Telford.
The 35-year-old said: "I just think it's a joke. We'd got to the point where we couldn't do it anymore. I don't drive, I run my own business so I even had to ask my own customers for a lift to Telford which is embarrassing, but it was four bus journeys away.
"It's my first grandchild and I saw her once in five days. We were going to do a protest to get her back, I had 300 girls willing to come to Royal Stoke and stand outside the maternity ward."
A Trust spokesperson said: "We are sorry that Lucy was not happy with aspects of her experience.
"Royal Stoke University Hospital is a level 3 Neonatal Intensive Care Unit and is part of the West Midlands Neonatal Network, which means it takes the sickest babies requiring intensive care from across the region.
"As a result, babies are sometimes moved to a level 2 unit such as the Princess Royal Hospital in Telford for on-going care. This ensures that we are able to care for the extremely premature and sick neonates.
"While we strive to keep all babies at Royal Stoke, on this occasion we were following the care pathway.
"Antenatal mothers do receive information during their pregnancy with regards to care pathways."
