
# Heilung add second Webster Hall show to first-ever North American tour

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:39:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Sacher**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/heilung-add-second-webster-hall-show-to-first-ever-north-american-tour/)

Metal-friendly Nordic dark folk band Heilung recently announced their first-ever North American tour, and the anticipation for it is clearly high. They quickly sold out several shows, and they’ve been upgrading some to larger venues and adding more dates. The Chicago show was moved from the Vic to the Riv (and now sold out again), and a second NYC show was just added.
Heilung now also play Webster Hall on January 29, five days after their previously announced, sold-out show at the same venue on 1/24. Tickets for the newly-added show go on sale Friday (11/8) at 10 AM with an AmEx presale starting Wednesday (11/6) at 10 AM.
It seems like more North American dates may be TBA, so stay tuned. All currently announced dates are listed below.
Earlier this year, Heilung released their sophomore album Furtha on Season of Mist. As we wrote previously, if it seems surprising how quickly they are selling out good-sized venues like Webster Hall, it’s worth noting that their new album sold well, their videos have tons of views, their live show is elaborate, they’ve already soundtracked a Game of Thrones commercial, and this traditional style of “world music” has especially been growing in popularity in Europe where similar band Wardruna recently announced that they signed to Sony.
