
# Kremlin Says US Silent on Future of Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:14:28+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/us/201911051077230079-kremlin-says-us-silent-on-future-of-strategic-arms-reduction-treaty/)


        MOSCOW (Sputnik) - Russia has not received any indication from the United States that it is ready to discuss the future of the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START), Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Tuesday.
      
Peskov stressed the complexity of such talks and refrained from providing a precise time frame for negotiations.
The statement comes after Beijing stated that it saw no reason to engage in trilateral disarmament negotiations with the United States and Russia, especially since conditions for such an arrangement do not exist.
Russian President Vladimir Putin sent in September a proposal to leaders of several countries, including NATO members, to introduce a moratorium on the deployment of INF Treaty-covered missiles in Europe and other regions. Later, NATO confirmed that it had received the letter, but did not consider this proposal credible.
On 2 August, the US withdrew from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, which banned all short-medium (310–620 miles) and intermediate (620–3,420 miles) range ground-launched missiles, citing Russia's alleged violations of the pact as its reason for exiting.
In early 2019, US President Donald Trump floated the idea of drafting a new arms control agreement between Washington, Moscow and Beijing.
The New START agreement was signed in 2010 by then-Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and his US counterpart at the time, Barack Obama. It is currently the only arms control agreement between two countries that is still in force. It is set to expire in February 2021, and so far Washington has shown no inclination to extend it.
