
# Shoppers urged to spend Mothercare gift cards as administration nears

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:18:13+00:00**

Author: **Katie Brooks, Emma Munbodh, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/katie-brooks/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/shoppers-urged-spend-mothercare-gift-17198418)

Shoppers are being urged to spend their Mothercare gift cards before its too late, as the company nears administration.
The chain, which has host of major outlets across West Midlands, has been trying to find a buyer for several months but confirms it will go into administration in the next 48 hours.
While the retailer continues to operate as normal, if it does go into administration, gift cards and refunds could cease to be valid, reports the Mirror .
This could also include website orders - which would close, potentially leaving thousands of customers with outstanding purchases in limbo.
James Walker, founder of consumer rights website  Resolver.co.uk said: "Mothercare's potential collapse is all the more concerning because countless parents across the land will have been given vouchers and gift cards by friends and family.
"I can't emphasise this enough: Spend them now. If Mothercare goes in to administration, chances are they'll be worthless.
"As money is usually refunded to the card of the person who paid for the vouchers, speak to whoever bought them for you. Failing that, get down to the shop and spend them."
And when it comes to purchases, customers are being warned to pay on plastic rather than cash.
Walker added: "Avoid paying by cash, cheque or direct transfer. You've got no rights to recall your money if this happens. Always question businesses that ask for payments this way and don’t pay if you can’t afford to lose it."
Refunds and exchanges are still being accepted in all stores however this could also change if Mothercare folds.
"If you’ve bought something that doesn't work but the retailer goes bust, you’ll need to go to the manufacturer to see if you can get a repair, replacement or refund," he said.
"If you’ve not received your goods then ask for a ‘charge back’ from your card provider urgently.
"If you’re worried you’ve been stitched up by a dodgy retailer, speak to your local Trading Standards officer – they’re based in the council offices. They can let you know if there’s a wider problem and can investigate the business if they think there’s a cause for concern."
Mothercare opened its first store in the UK in 1961 in Surrey and has recently transformed itself into an international franchising group and trades from 1,000 stores in about 50 countries.
However back in the UK there are just 79 standalone outlets and the company's 2,500 employees now face redundancy .
The news comes just months after Mothercare sold off its Early Learning Centre arm to The Entertainer for £13.5million.
