
# Reuters: US withholding $105 million in security aid for Lebanon

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Annahar Staff**

Original: [An-Nahar](https://en.annahar.com/article/1060290-reuters-us-withholding-105-million-in-security-aid-for-lebanon)

BEIRUT: The U.S. is withholding military aid to the Lebanese Armed Forces in the wake of the Cabinet's resignation, according to Reuters.Reuters, quoting two U.S. officials, said the $105 million in security aid for Lebanon will be withheld. The decision came from the White House budget office and National Security Council, with no reasoning behind the move being divulged. "The administration had sought approval for the assistance starting in May, arguing that it was crucial for Lebanon, an important U.S. partner in the volatile Middle East, to be able to protect its borders. The aid included night vision goggles and weapons used in border security," Reuters said. The Lebanese military has received substantial aid from the U.S. in recent years, including nearly $100 million in 2018.But Washington has been taken aback by Hezbollah's growing role within Lebanon's government. Hezbollah, the Iranian-backed militant group, has seen its both its domestic and regional influence increase. This has prompted the Trump administration to tighten the noose on its finances, hitting the group and suspected backers with designated sanctions. In the wake of Prime Minister Saad Hariri's resignation earlier this week amid massive nationwide protests, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo urged Lebanon’s political leaders to "help form a new government responsive to the needs of its people" and called for an end to endemic corruption. Related Articles Trump says nationwide immigration arrests to begin Sunday  SSSS  Trump says US, China seek new site to sign trade agreement

        Show Comments
      
