
# Things to do today in Bengaluru

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/things-to-do-today-in-bengaluru/articleshow/71881063.cms)

Practice matters Do you make music? Do you want to be a musician? Are you looking for a collaborator? Whatever be your reason, stop by MyMusic Community and take in beautiful tunes. Simply put, it’s a jamming meetup where musicians assemble and play together. But on some days, they also host workshops and open mic performances. WHERE: MyBo Tree, KHB Colony, 5th Block, Koramangala WHEN: 7.30pm-9.30pm, November 4 CALL: 9986763466 They are funny Beat your Monday blues with some good laughs. Wondering how? Come over to this cafe, sit back and relax with some good food and drinks, and a hilarious open mic comedy show, curated by Bangalore Comedy Club. This edition will feature Neha Bobde, Arun Kiran, Ashwin Srinivasan, Kaushal Dayani, Arnav Rao and Rupen Paul. WHERE: Beer Cafe, Koramangala WHEN: 8pm, November 4 ENTRY: `150, insider.in or at the venue Dance to Hindi hits Mondays are only about slogging in office. Whoever told you this, has got it all wrong. Head to ‘Bollywood Adda Nights’ and experience the fun of weekday partying. And since DJ Hassan is going to be in-charge of the console, get ready to groove to the most popular and peppy Hindi songs. WHERE: The Boozy Griffin, Koramangala WHEN: 8pm onwards, November 4 CALL: 9035308000 Women in science We don’t see them on TV, in textbooks or in newspapers, and most of us can’t name a single one. But there are thousands of women scientists in India, who perform experiments in laboratories, peer through powerful telescopes and camp out in harsh and extreme conditions. So, attend the launch of 31 Fantastic Adventures in Science, a unique book by Nandita Jayaraj and Aashima Friedog, who have written stories of 31 of these trailblazing women who work in a diverse array of fields, from environmental biotechnology to particle physics, palaeobiology to astrophysics. WHERE: Crossword Bookstore, Mantri Square Mall, Malleshwaram WHEN: 5pm-6.30pm, November 4 Happy scenes A new month means a new exhibition at this gallery. So keeping up with the tradition, this venue is hosting The Pursuit of Excellence, a show of paintings by artists Ram Onkar and Neena Jacob, where they have tried to capture the vibrancy, sensitivity, richness and the depth of Indian art. So take an art break. WHERE: Gallery Third Eye, Epsilon Office Building, Yemalur Main Road WHEN: 10am-6pm, till November 30 (closed on Sundays) CALL: 9916586941 Be house proud Just as how a beautifully-done home can lift your mood, a drab place can ruin your day. Isn’t it? So if you are looking to spruce up your home, check out this new collection of wall art, sculptures, artefacts and table sets and infuse an aura of positivity at your place. WHERE: Earthen Symphony Design Studio, 60 Feet Road, Kasturi Nagar WHEN: 10am-6pm, November 4-10 CALL: 7795012778 To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
