
# At transgender medicine program, patients find compassion

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **KATHLEEN MCWILLIAMS**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/4/at-transgender-medicine-program-patients-find-comp/)

MIDDLETOWN, Conn. (AP) - When Allison Niedzwiecki was looking for hormone replacement therapy in 2015, she knew of only two medical providers in Connecticut who offered the service.
“There are providers who hear the word “transgender” and don’t think they know what to do or how to get involved,” Niedzwiecki said. “Accessing health care is an issue in our community.”
That wasn’t the case at Middlesex Health’s transgender medicine program. Since 2016, medical director Katy Tierney and her colleagues have built a program that treats 1,000 transgender patients across the health system every year.
For the transgender community, navigating and accessing the health care system can often be uncomfortable and anxiety inducing, Niedzwiecki said.
“Going to a provider and not knowing how they’re going to talk to you or if they’ll have the knowledge of how to administer care is really challenging,” she said. “I recently had gender confirmation surgery and I had to see a urologist. … and I had a mini panic attack because of who was going to see me and wondering what that experience was going to be like having someone examine a part of my body that doesn’t match my experience.”
That fear dissipated Niedzwiecki said when she remembered that Middlesex Health had a urologist she could see. She knew that the doctor would be trained to meet her specific needs.
“That was a real weight off my mind,” Niedzwiecki said.
At Middlesex Health, the transgender medicine program has provided not only medical services like gender confirmation surgery and hormone replacement therapy, but also has built a culture that is equipped to treat transgender people with compassion and sensitivity across the spectrum, hospital officials said.
Primary care physicians, surgeons, emergency room staff, and others in the program are trained on the best practices to care for Connecticut’s transgender population, Tierney said. Stickers bearing the LGBTQ rainbow flag and the pink, blue and white transgender flag mark the entrances to the hospital and doctor’s offices, to show that everyone is welcome.
“It was my goal that the entire system could care for a trans person,” Tierney said. “It’s been an incredible shift over the last few years. It’s changed a lot. Our trans IQ has grown over time and we’ve moved from a place of unsure to confident. It’s about moving the culture forward, not just the services.”
Tierney said a big component of building the program was educating health professionals on the transgender experience, the proper vocabulary to use and the difference and disconnect between biological sex and gender.
With that education, Tierney said the staff at Middlesex Health are equipped to ask the right questions to get transgender people quick diagnoses and appropriate medical care.
“You need a way to get information quickly and you need to thread the needle quickly,” she said. “But you need to be sensitive too…it’s figuring out how to ask those questions sensitively and explaining why that is important information for a doctor to have.”
For example, Tierney said that if a male patient comes to the emergency room complaining about abdominal pain and doesn’t identify that they are transgender and may still have a uterus, a doctor might run specific tests that don’t help with a diagnosis.
“You’ve then lost time and an opportunity to fix it,” she explained.
When Tierney became a nurse practitioner, she knew she wanted to work with the LGBTQ population, but she wasn’t exactly sure how.
She applied for a job to work at Dr. William Petit’s endocrinology practice in New Britain because she wanted to focus on diabetes treatment, one of her primary interests, and to work with the transgender population.
In 2007, after Petit’s wife and two daughters were killed in the Cheshire home invasion and he was seriously wounded, Tierney took over the practice before taking a job at Middlesex Health five years ago.
“The joy in my career is taking care of transgender people,” Tierney said. “It’s great to see people move into a normal life.”
For patients like Niedzwiecki, having access to general medical care, as well as transgender specific treatments like hormone therapy and gender confirmation surgery was “life changing.”
“Having access to hormone therapy took me from walking around presenting as a woman in the world and getting smirks and getting pointed at,” she said. “It is never lost on me that I can do something as simple as going to a clothing store and look at women’s clothes without being stared at.”
Online: https://bit.ly/2JKBWib
Information from: Hartford Courant, http://www.courant.com

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
