
# UFC 244 Main Event: Prop Bets For Jorge Masvidal Vs. Nate Diaz

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/01/ufc-244-main-event-prop-bets-for-jorge-masvidal-vs-nate-diaz/)

On Saturday, Jorge Masvidal and Nate Diaz meet in the main event of the UFC 244 fight card. The BMF title is on the line in the welterweight matchup.Here is a look at the prop bets for the highly anticipated bout.
UFC 244 takes place Saturday at New York's Madison Square Garden. The pay-per-view card airs on ESPN+ following prelims on ESPN2 and ESPN+.

        Will the fight go the distance?
      
Yes: -130
No: +100
I do believe this one will go the distance and not because these two won’t go for the finish. I have little doubt that both will want to score a stoppage victory, but I just think they are too evenly matched for one of them to get a clean opportunity to score the stoppage. 

        Will Masvidal win within the distance?
      
Yes: +205
No: -265
No matter what pace these two fight, I don’t see Diaz gassing out and leaving himself open for a knockout. If the fight does go to the ground, I think Diaz, even if he’s tired will be able to defend himself against Masvidal on the mat. With that, I don’t see Masvidal wrapping this one up inside the distance.

        Will Diaz win within the distance?
      
Yes: +420
No: -590
As I said I don’t think this one ends early. However, if it does end in a stoppage I do think that it’ll be Diaz that gets that stoppage. The way I could see it ending early is if Masvidal wears himself out going for the knockout. With that, it might be worth going with the odds in this case. 

        Will Masvidal win by decision?
      
Yes: +215
No: -275
I think this is the most likely outcome, but the odds are not as good here as I would like them to be. 

        Will Diaz win by decision?
      
Yes: +270
No: -360
If the fight goes the distance I favor Masvidal. He seems to have put the days of split decisions behind him, so I think he’ll stay aggressive enough to get the nod from the judges.

        Will Masvidal win by submission?
      
Yes: +1050
Any other result: -2150
Masvidal has two submission wins in his career. One of those took place in 2009 and the other in 2013. He has the skills to end the fight by submission, but the ground game is Diaz’s realm. It’s hard to believe Masvidal catches Diaz slipping on the mat.

        Will Diaz win by submission?
      
Yes: +640
Any other result: -1320
The last time Masvidal was submitted was 2009 when Toby Imada caught him in an inverted triangle choke that might have been the first viral moment in Bellator history. Could Diaz submit Masvidal? Sure, but I don’t think it will happen unless Masvidal exhausts himself early in the fight.

        Will Masvidal win by KO/TKO?
      
Yes: +245
Any other result: -335
Masvidal does have the power and boxing skills to knockout his opponents, but does he have enough power and skill to score a knockout over Diaz, who has only been stopped by strikes once in his career? I don’t believe so. 
Will Diaz win by KO/TKO? 
Yes: +825
Any other result: -1725
This one might be worth taking a shot on just because of the odds. I don’t think Diaz will score a knockout, but at +825, who knows what can happen. 
Odds via 5 Dimes.

        More From UFC 244:
      
