
# 2020 MG ZS EV priced from $46,990 drive-away

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:28:22+00:00**

Author: **James Wong**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805024/2020-mg-zs-ev/)

- shares
MG Australia has announced a pre-sale offer for its first electric vehicle – the ZS EV – priced from $46,990 drive-away for the first 100 orders.
Available to pre-order now in Australia, the ZS EV is powered by a 105kW/353Nm electric motor on the front axle, hooked up to a 44.5kWh water-cooled lithium-ion battery pack.
The company claims the ZS EV will offer 262 kilometres of driving range on the combined cycle (WLTP), and can be recharged to 80 per cent in just 40 minutes using a 50kW fast-charge point.
Using the standard 7kW home charge unit, owners can fully charge their vehicle in seven hours.
Standard features for the all-electric crossover will include an 8.0-inch touchscreen with satellite navigation, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, six-speaker audio, and a panoramic sunroof.
The ZS EV will be covered by a seven year, 160,000km new vehicle warranty and a seven-year battery warranty when it arrives in 2020.
Key rivals for the ZS EV include the recently-facelifted Hyundai Ioniq Electric and the Nissan Leaf, priced from $48,490 plus on-road costs and $49,990 plus on-road costs respectively.
Both competing hatchbacks have marginally more claimed driving range to go with the higher asking price – with the Ioniq now rated at 311km while the Leaf quotes 270km, both on the stricter WLTP test cycle.
MG's pre-launch announcement was made at the opening of the brand's new flagship showroom – Sydney City MG – located in Alexandria.
"The new 1100sqm two-level showroom is located in Alexandria’s coveted automotive hub, promising to deliver a trusted and convenient sales experience for the brand’s expanding customer base," MG says in its media release.
MG, a subsidiary of China's SAIC Motor group, is enjoying a rapidly growing presence in the Australian market this year.
So far in 2019 the formerly British marque is up by more than 200 per cent year-to-date (as of September 30), with key drivers being the revised MG3 light hatch and petrol-powered ZS crossovers.
Last month 835 MGs were registered in Australia, with 5795 units sold YTD to the end of September. It seems those numbers will just continue to get larger.

        Click the images for the full gallery
      
16
nextprevious2020 MG ZS EV priced from $46,990 drive-away
