
# Aragon Opposes Change to Ethereum's Mining Algorithm Before 2.0 Version

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Joeri Cant**

Original: [Cointelegraph](https://cointelegraph.com/news/aragon-opposes-change-to-ethereums-mining-algorithm-before-20-version)

The Aragon community has officially proclaimed itself against ProgPOW. ProgPOW is a proposed protocol change to the Ehereum network that would close the efficiency gap available to application-specific integrated circuits. 
In a tweet on Nov. 2, the official account of the Aragon project posted voting results, showing that a proposal to block changes to Ethereum’s mining algorithm had passed.
ProgPOW would change the Ethereum network’s proof-of-work mining algorithm before the eventual switch to a proof-of-stake model as part of the Ethereum 2.0 roll-out. Aragon, which is an open-source software project for creating and managing decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs), uses Ethereum smart contracts.
In October, Aragon announced its latest Aragon Network vote, where Aragon (ANT) token holders were able to cast their votes on a variety of proposals, including changes to Ethereum's mining algorithm. The proposal states:
The vote passed with almost 860,000 tokens voting yes on the proposal to oppose, while 390,000 voted no. 
In a tweet on Nov. 3,  Aragon One CTO Jorge Izquierdo said that the Aragon team will respect the community’s decision and take it seriously. 
At the beginning of October, Izquierdo said that the Ethereum network’s Istanbul upgrade will break roughly 680 smart contracts on the Aragon platform. Izquierdo added that DAOs on Aragon will no longer be able to receive Ether (ETH) from one another, stating, “The issue we’re going to have hasn’t been deemed important enough for this hard fork not to happen, which from our point of view is unfortunate [but] it’s a hard balance we understand.”
