
# Reds outright Derek Dietrich to Triple-A

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:57:06+00:00**

Author: **Mark Sheldon**

Original: [MLB.com](https://www.mlb.com/news/derek-dietrich-outright-reds)

CINCINNATI -- With big home runs and several clutch moments, infielder/outfielder Derek Dietrich was one of the Reds’ most popular players of the first half in 2019. But on Monday, Dietrich was one of four players taken off Cincinnati’s 40-man roster.
Dietrich, along with infielder Christian Colón and right-handers Keury Mella and Jackson Stephens, cleared waivers and were sent outright to Triple-A Louisville.
The Reds’ 40-man roster now stands at 35 players.
In 113 games for the Reds, Dietrich batted .187/.328/.462 with 19 home runs and 43 RBIs. Despite only 67 starts, he tied for third on the club in homers. Dietrich had signed a Minor League contract in February, with a deal worth $2 million after making the team.
Dietrich, 30, hit 18 of his homers before the All-Star break and gained immediate popularity among fans and media. He became the fourth Reds player to belt 10 homers before reaching 100 plate appearances, and the first since Tony Perez in 1970. On May 28 against the Pirates, Dietrich knocked three home runs with six RBIs.
That was all before Dietrich endured hard times at the plate the rest of the season, batting .071 with one homer in the second half.
Among the others taken off the roster, Mella ranked as the organization’s No. 23 prospect per MLB Pipeline. The Reds acquired him along with outfielder Adam Duvall from the Giants in the 2015 Trade Deadline deal for right-hander Mike Leake. In eight big league outings over three seasons, Mella posted a 7.94 ERA. He went 8-14 with a 5.05 ERA in 27 starts this season for Louisville.

        Mark Sheldon has covered the Reds for MLB.com since 2006, and previously covered the Twins from 2001-05. Follow him on Twitter @m_sheldon and Facebook.
      
