
# Fish and Chip shop sells battered Quality Streets - and they've ranked best ones

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:23:38+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/weird-news/fish-chip-shop-sells-battered-20817876)

It seems that in 2019, fish and chip shops will not rest until they have battered and deep fried everything.
Recently we saw one establishment start serving up battered Jaffa Cakes and now another is deep frying a classic Christmas treat for customers.
Poppies of Soho is going to be offering battered Quality Street sweets to customers throughout December.
Yes, really.
From December 1 up until December 25 (They'll be open for a festive fish feast at Christmas), the London-based eatery will be selling "lucky dips" of the deep fried Nestle treats for £2.50.
 
For this price each customer will get five different sweets.
But will you manage to get one of your favourites?
Quality Streets are made up of 12 different chocolate treats, including the Toffee Finger, the Green Triangle and Strawberry Delight.
As well as frying the sweets, the team over at Poppies have also gone one step further and shared their ultimate ranking of the best ones. Do you think they've made the right call?
 
Here's a look at their list, which had the Toffee Finger on top:
1. Toffee Finger
2. The Purple One
3. Chocolate Caramel Brownie
4. Strawberry Delight
5. Toffee Penny
6. Orange Creme
7. The Green Triangle
8. Fudge
9. Orange Chocolate Crunch
10. Milk Choc Block
11. Caramel Swirl
12. Coconut Eclair
 
While the sweets are on offer, staff at the shop will be asking customers to share their opinions and will keep a tally of the most popular flavours.
Some of the most popular could possibly become permanent features on the menu.
Fans of the fish and chip shop on social media were very excited by the chocolate news.
One person commented: "I have died and gone to heaven."
Another wrote: "Have to try this."
A third added: "This is a whole other level."
