
# Couple found buried in shallow grave after 'stranger seen driving their car'

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:15:36+00:00**

Author: **Talia Shadwell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/talia-shadwell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/couple-found-buried-shallow-grave-20806426)

The bodies of a missing couple have been found buried on a beach thousands of miles away from where they were last seen.
The family Jamie, 48, and Michelle Butler, 46, from New Hampshire, had become worried when they hadn't heard from them for a week.
The pair, who have five children, had been on holiday on a cross-country camping trip, and their family had not heard from them since October 15.
After their anxious relatives reported their disappearance to authorities, police discovered a unnerving clue on surveillance footage, reports the New York Post .
The couple were last heard from when they arrived on Padre Island, on the south coast of Texas.
 
But police have reportedly revealed they have footage allegedly showing an unidentified driver behind the wheel of their truck as it crossed the border into Mexico some time between October 20 and 21.
On October 27, police discovered human remains on a beach near the Butlers' camping site on Padre Island.
Authorities in the state say an autopsy has confirmed their identities and the deaths are being investigated as homicides.
The parents, who have five grown-up children, had reportedly been touring the US in their RV for more than a year.
Their family members told local media the couple were eager to explore, and their lack of contact was out of character.
“They were very good at staying in touch with everybody and awesome at sharing their daily adventures,” James’ sister, Deborah Van Loon told the local CBS affiliate in Boston.
Police investigating the deaths are searching for the Butlers' truck, and have yet to reveal how the couple died.
