
# Donald Trump Jr.: ‘Mitt Romney is my favorite Democrat’

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jessica Chasmar**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/5/donald-trump-jr-mitt-romney-is-my-favorite-democra/)

Donald Trump Jr. quipped that Republican Sen. Mitt Romney is his “favorite Democrat” while promoting his new book on CBS Tuesday morning.
Mr. Trump Jr. is doing the media rounds to promote his newly released book, “Triggered: How the Left Thrives on Hate and Wants to Silence Us,” which relentlessly criticizes the media and Democratic Party. On “CBS This Morning,” the president’s eldest son was seemingly stumped when asked to “say something nice” for a change.
“Who is your favorite Democrat? Go ahead,” co-host Gayle King asked.
Mr. Trump Jr. deadpanned before bursting into laughter.
“All right we’re going to let you go,” Mr. King interjected, laughing. “Thank you very much. It is now 8:14. The name of the book is ‘Triggered,’ wherever you like to buy your books.”
“Mitt Romney, Gayle,” Mr. Trump Jr. finally answered. “Mitt Romney is my favorite Democrat. How about that?”
“No,” Ms. King joked before moving into the weather forecast.
Mr. Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee, has been a frequent critic of President Trump and refused to support him during the 2016 election. More recently, he called the president’s phone call with the Ukrainian president at the center of the impeachment inquiry “deeply troubling.”
Mr. Trump hasn’t held back either. In 2016, he labeled Mr. Romney “one of the dumbest and worst candidates in the history of Republican politics.”

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
