
# Uber still using Waymo-derived self-driving technology, expert says

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:00:49+00:00**

Author: **Timothy B. Lee**

Original: [Ars Technica](https://arstechnica.com/cars/2019/11/uber-still-infringing-some-waymo-intellectual-property-expert-finds/)

In a Tuesday filing with the Security and Exchange Commission, Uber admitted that an independent expert had determined that Uber's self-driving technology was still infringing Waymo's intellectual property. The revelation comes more than 18 months after Uber settled a high-profile legal battle with Waymo over alleged theft of Waymo secrets by Uber.
As a result, Uber says, it will be forced to either license the relevant technology from Waymo—which could be expensive—or overhaul the affected systems. The filing didn't specify which parts of Uber's technology were infringing, and an Uber spokeswoman declined to comment further to Ars Technica. Uber's disclosure was first reported by Reuters.
Waymo filed a lawsuit against Uber in February 2017 after a former Waymo manager, Anthony Levandowski, left Waymo to found a self-driving truck startup called Otto. Uber bought Otto just a few months after it was founded and incorporated the company into Uber's own fledgling self-driving project. But Waymo accused Levandowski of downloading numerous sensitive documents from Waymo's network before leaving the company and then using them to build the self-driving systems at Otto and Uber.
As part of the settlement, Uber and Waymo agreed to hire an independent software expert to "ensure that our autonomous vehicle hardware and software do not misappropriate Waymo intellectual property." However, Uber told the SEC, the expert they hired recently "made adverse findings as to certain functions in our autonomous vehicle software."
It's the latest setback for Uber's embattled self-driving project. Uber invested heavily in the technology in 2017, racking up millions of miles of on-road testing by early 2018. But then tragedy struck when an Uber self-driving car slammed into a pedestrian in Tempe, Arizona. The crash forced Uber to suspend its testing efforts for several months and then to bring it back only in a drastically scaled-back form.
On the other hand, self-driving programs across the industry have been struggling to meet the inflated expectations established in 2016 and 2017. Uber is betting that it can slowly and steadily rebuild its program on more secure footings and still emerge as an industry leader.
