
# Winsport says it's using $1.5 million in provincial funds to prepare for cancelled X Games

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:43:35+00:00**

Author: **Bill Kaufmann**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/winsport-says-its-using-1-5-million-in-provincial-funds-to-prepare-for-cancelled-x-games)

Before the UCP government cancelled the province’s support for the X Games, Calgary’s Winsport had received $1.5 million from the province to prepare for the event, says the sports agency.
That money is helping build facilities that would have been used for the now-aborted X Games but will still be relevant without the event, said Winsport spokesman Dale Oviatt.
“Winsport did receive $1.5 million from the government of Alberta in anticipation of the X Games coming to Calgary to be used towards construction of a world-class slopestyle course and other venue enhancements which would have been used to host two of the X Games events at Canada Olympic Park,” Oviatt said in a statement.
“In alignment with the long-term plan behind this funding, these venues will be used for events other than the X Games.”
Work has now commenced on those amenities, he said.
The half-pipe and slopestyle facilities will now host World Cups and other competitions, said Oviatt.
Some of that money is also being used to demolish the top section of the park’s sliding track used by bobsledders “that will free up terrain for the new slopestyle course,” he added.
That portion of the sliding track is obsolete and its removal will enable the rehabilitation of the venue, said Winsport.
Other X Games events would have been held at the Calgary Stampede grandstand.
On Thursday, Mayor Naheed Nenshi and Tourism Calgary officials said the province’s decision to cancel $13.5 million of funding for the 2020-22 X Games — that might have been staged a year later — was disappointing and effectively ended the city’s hopes of hosting the event for those three years.
The UCP government said that money would be better spent on health care or education and that corporate sponsors should pick up the X Games bill, though organizers here say that sole funding alternative is unrealistic.
“Getting our fiscal house in order means we must finally say no to endless requests for more funding,” Economic Development, Trade and Tourism Minister Tanya Fir wrote in a column published in Friday’s Calgary Herald.
On Friday, a provincial official said the $1.5 million wasn’t part of the X Games funding.
“The previous government’s funding commitment to X Games is not going forward,” said Justin Brattinga, spokesman for Economic Development, Trade and Tourism.
“Our government has provided $1.5 million to Winsport for long-term improvements to support the many different ski and snowboard events hosted at the venue, including several upcoming world cups.”
Tourism Calgary said it had envisioned the X Games, a celebration of extreme sport, as a permanent fixture during Calgary’s winters, which are a traditionally slower time for the hospitality industry.
It was expected to attract 75,000 spectators annually while creating $75 million in economic spinoffs each year.
“Every hotel in the city would have been full, it would have been a winter anchor event,” said Tourism Calgary CEO Cindy Ady on Thursday.
To renovate Winsport’s sliding track, $17 million has been procured from the federal and provincial governments prior to the UCP gaining power, though that amount leaves an $8 million funding gap.
Oviatt didn’t say if the $1.5 million infusion reduced that shortfall.
Sliding competitions have been suspended at Winsport during the renovations.

        BKaufmann@postmedia.com
      
on Twitter: @BillKaufmannjrn
