
# Plastic toy gun confiscated

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:15:17+00:00**

Author: **Arlene Rivera**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/plastic-toy-gun-confiscated)

The gold-colored toy gun was confiscated from the father of the kid when they entered the cemetery at around 9 a.m., according to police officers stationed at the entrance.
Inspectors at the gate also confiscated cigarette packs, vapes, lighters, matches, and a set of tarot cards.
Police said those confiscated were among prohibited items inside the cemetery.
There were cemetery personnel making rounds inside Loyola Memorial Park to light up the candles of visitors.
All confiscated items will be returned to its owners once they exit the cemetery, Marikina City Police said.
Col. Restituto Arcangel, city police chief, advised the public to avoid bringing prohibited items such as firearms, bladed weapons, alcoholic drinks, gambling paraphernalia, and loudspeakers inside the cemetery.
As of 12 p.m., crowd estimate at Loyola Memorial Park is 33,737. Arcangel said that no untoward incidents were reported since October 31.
“We continue monitoring the security situation and we haven’t received any reports of accidents. So far, the situation is peaceful,” Arcangel said.
The city police chief expects that more people will arrive tonight based on their records last year.
Last year, police recorded around 480,000 people visited Loyola Memorial Park on All Saints’ Day. It is the largest and the most visited cemetery in Marikina City.
“We expect that at around 3 p.m., people will begin to flock here at Loyola Memorial Park,” he said.
