
# ‘Animahenasyon 13’ seeks to discover the hidden gems in Filipino animation

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:04:55+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/02/animahenasyon-13-seeks-to-discover-the-hidden-gems-in-filipino-animation/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
Every year since 2007, the Animation Council of the Philippines Inc. (Acpi) has been organizing a Philippine Animation Festival called “Animahenasyon.” On its 13th year, Animahenasyon is happening on November 8, 2019, at Samsung Hall, SM Aura.
The festival is a hot spot for Filipino original content in animation, while the accompanying competition attracts submissions from Filipino artists worldwide.
This year, Animahenasyon 13 celebrates that “Our Stories Matter,” Filipino culture is just as complex and multilayered as its people. Their stories and ideas can be developed into unique content that could propel the Philippine animation industry forward toward a future of locally produced films and TV series that connect with both local and global audiences.
The competition presents the opportunity for the animation community to discover new Filipino original content from both students and professionals. Attending the festival means being surrounded by talented and like-minded individuals. Everyone is brought together in a space where they can celebrate their love for animation, make meaningful connections and gain valuable insights from the guest speakers.
Animahenasyon will be bringing in Kitaro Kosaka, director of animated feature film Okko’s Inn, whose portfolio includes work at Studio Ghibli, MADHOUSE Productions, Oh! Productions and more; Mikki Crisostomo, a staff writer at Disney TV Animation and a graduate from University of the Philippines and Columbia University; Pancho Burgos-Goizueta, a film score composer who has worked on High-School Musical 2 and 3, Wheels, God’s Not Dead: A Light in Darkness, among several other films; and Carl Papa, an IT professional by day and a filmmaker at heart. His feature films, The Unforgetting and Manang Biring, have been recognized locally and internationally, while his most recent film, Paglisan, won best film at Cinema One Originals Film Festival.
There will also be free film screenings of Okko’s Inn by Kitaro Kosaka, Ars Electronica presents Young Animations curated by Sirikit Amann, Marona’s Fantastic Tale by Anca Damian, and Animahenasyon 13 Finalists will be available to all festival attendees.
For ticket inquiries and more information, please visit www.animahenasyon.com, or e-mailsecretariat@animationcouncil.org or dial 8817 2727.
