
# What channel is Red Star Belgrade vs Tottenham on? TV and live stream information

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Sam Fletcher**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/what-channel-red-star-belgrade-20818508)

It’s been a mixed start for Tottenham in the UEFA Champions League this season but they remain on course to qualify for the knockout stages at the halfway point of the Group Stage.
A draw against Olympiakos and a battering by Bayern saw Spurs slumping towards an early Champions League exit before a resurgence against Red Star Belgrade now sees them firmly back in the mix.
Yet they were in a worse situation last season, only picking up a point from their opening three fixtures and they still ended up competing in June's final against Liverpool .
Pochettino has come under a lot of pressure with his side currently sitting in the bottom half of the Premier League, out of the Carabao Cup and making a routine Champions League group look difficult. His side desperately need a win.
Here’s all you need to know ahead of the game…
The game is on Wednesday 6th November.
Kick-off is set for 8pm.
The game is being played at Red Star Belgrade’s Rajko Mitic Stadium in Serbia.
Formerly known as Red Star Stadium the ground has a capacity of 55,538.
 
The game will be shown live on BT Sport 2 for people wanting to watch in the UK.
Coverage starts at 7pm.
For UK viewers you can live stream the game on the BT Sport website or via the BT Sport app.
Alternatively, you can follow all of the action on the Mirror Football live blog.
It remains to be seen whether Son Heung-min will be included in the starting XI following his despairing reaction to Andre Gomes' horror injury on Sunday.
The South Korean was visibly upset after being sent off for his involvement in the incident which marred the draw with Everton .
He has travelled to Belgrade with Spurs, and boss Pochettino has since claimed his forward is "in a very good way".
Red Star meanwhile have no fresh injury concerns since the meeting between the sides two weeks ago.
Tottenham 7/10
Draw 3/1
Red Star Belgrade 15/4
Odds courtesy of thepools.com
