
# Donald Trump hits out at ‘deranged’ impeachment inquiry

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:11:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/world/donald-trump-hits-out-at-deranged-impeachment-inquiry-962412.html)

Donald Trump has condemned “corrupt” Democrats and the whistleblower behind the congressional impeachment inquiry, accusing them of pursuing a “deranged witch hunt”.
The US president was addressing a crowd in Louisiana as Democrats prepared for the first public hearings next week in the probe into a whistleblower’s claims about a call Mr Trump held with the Ukrainian president.
Mr Trump said: “Democrats must be accountable for their hoaxes and their crimes.
“Now corrupt politicians Nancy Pelosi and shifty Adam Schiff and the crooked media have launched the deranged, delusional, destructive and hyper-partisan impeachment witch hunt.
“But the whistleblower came out with his horrible statement about this call. So I really had no choice. I said immediately – talk about transparency – I said: ‘Release it. Release it immediately’.
“And then the whistleblower saw it, and shifty Schiff saw it, who is a total crook. Schiff saw it. Pelosi saw it. And they said, ‘We’ve got a problem. We don’t want to have anything to do with the whistleblower any more’. And the whistleblower disappeared.”
The president was in Louisiana to boost Republican businessman Eddie Rispone’s effort to unseat Democratic governor John Bel Edwards in the nation’s last governorship race of the year.
“It may be 120 degrees in this room,” Mr Trump told the crowd at the end of the rally in the city of Monroe.
