
# 'Panga' director Ashwiny Iyer Tiwari: Would love Kangana Ranaut to play me if my biopic is made

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:10:16+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/panga-director-ashwiny-iyer-tiwari-would-love-kangana-ranaut-to-play-me-if-my-biopic-is-made/articleshow/71924140.cms)

After making her successful directorial debut with 'Manikarnika: The Queen of Jhansi' and receiving praises for her performance in 'Judgementall Hai Kya', Kangana Ranaut will be seen next in 'Panga'. Directed by Ashwiny Iyer Tiwari, the film is a story of a National level Kabbadi player, her triumphs, struggles and how she overcomes stereotypes.
During the shooting of the film, the director and the actor have got along phenomenally well, and have ended up being close friends ever since. From sneaking out for chaat after shoots or dining out just to let off steam, the two bond over similar ideologies and thought process.
During a recent podcast, Tiwari was asked that if a biopic was made on her, who would play the lead. The director immediately responded saying Kangana. When asked if it was because of her curly hair, Ashwiny denied and said that Kangana was also very fair. However, she revealed that Kangana did not appreciate the adjective fair being attached to her, as she stands up for dusky skin and is a staunch promoter of that. She triumphs on dusky skin. She also added that she would also like Vidya Balan and Revathy to play the role.
Meanwhile, on the professional front, Kangana is currently getting ready to play the late Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu J Jayalalithaa, in her upcoming film ‘Thalaivi’. Apart from Kangana, the film will feature Arvind Swami as MGR. The film is slated for release in 2020.
