
# ISL 2019-20 | Gave my best whenever I got opportunities, claims FC Manvir Singh

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:15:28+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/05/isl-2019-20-gave-my-best-whenever-i-got-opportunities-claims-fc-manvir-singh?utm_medium=rss)


        FC Goa's Manvir Singh, who scored a late equalizer against NorthEast United FC in Guwahati on Friday, has stated that he has always given his best whenever called upon. The young centre forward also hailed his boss Sergio Lobera and expressed his excitement in playing alongside ISL top scorer Coro.
      
When FC Goa coach Sergio Lobera introduced Manvir Singh in the 85th minute against NorthEast United, the Gaurs were trailing by a goal and they were eventually reduced to 10-men in injury time. Then in the last minute of the match, Manvir Singh became a super-sub by scoring a header to level the scores against the Highlanders at the Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium on Friday.
The youngster, who in his third season with Goa, made 19 substitute appearances off the bench. The goal against NorthEast United was only his second goal for Goa in ISL. Manvir expressed his happiness to score the goal and is now hoping to get more opportunities. Manvir also expressed his excitement in playing alongside ISL top goalscorer Ferran Corrominas.
"I gave my best whenever I got the opportunities. I even scored one goal last season and provided one assist. This year I started in the first two matches and both were great. In the third match against NorthEast United I came off the bench and scored the equaliser. I am very happy and I was waiting for such an opportunity to prove myself," said Manvir Singh, reported Sportstar.
"It is a big thing for me to play alongside Corominas as he is a very high-profile player. For the past two seasons, he has been the top scorer in the league. His decision making is very good and the touches he takes are excellent. It is a tough competition between me and Corominas and I try to give my best in practice sessions. Rest is up to the coach," he added.
The youngster from Punjab also hailed his Spanish coach Sergio Lobera for giving him confidence and improving his skills and knowledge.
"Sergio Lobera plays a very important role in the club. His training is very good for every Indian player. His with the ball training gives you confidence.  He helps us a lot to improve our skills and abilities with his technical knowledge,” Manvir further said. 
FC Goa also scored in the last minute against champions Bengaluru FC with a Coro penalty, while Manvir scored against the Highlanders with the limited opportunity he got.
“Even against Bengaluru, we were trailing by a goal. This has become a habit for us to score late goals and fight until the last minute. In football, a goal can come at any time. We never surrender and thus we got the results,” said the 23-year-old.
