
# 'Gangubai Kathiawadi': Sanjay Leela Bhansali on a lookout for a tutor to help Alia Bhatt learn 'Kathiawadi' dialect

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:12:11+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/gangubai-kathiawadi-sanjay-leela-bhansali-on-a-lookout-for-a-tutor-to-help-alia-bhatt-learn-kathiawadi-dialect/articleshow/71934567.cms)

After 'Inshallah' got shelved, Sanjay Leela Bhansali announced his next venture 'Gangubai Kathiawadi' starring Alia Bhatt in a lead role. The film is slated to go on the floors in a couple of weeks. At present, the filmmaker is looking out for a tutor for Alia. The actress will be seen essaying the role of Gangubai Kothewali in her first collaboration with SLB. Alia will be required to learn the Kathiawadi accent for the role.
The character Gangubai is a fierce madam of Kamathipura brothels in the 1960s who had gangsters as clients and was rumoured to be a drug peddler. To stay true to her partner who was from a middle-class Kathiawadi family, she was eventually sold off to a Bombay brothel.
According to a report in a daily tabloid, SLB and Bhatt are Gujaratis but Kathiawadi are different largely from the colloquial language. Interestingly, Alia's paternal grandfather Nanabhai Bhatt was a Gujarati Brahmin who hailed from Kathiawad. But the actress is not familiar with the dialect and since the filmmaker is scrupulous in his prep, he wants a tutor to help Alia with the dialect. Bhansali has reached out to some of Mumbai's famous Gujarati theatre personalities, including actors Manoj Joshi and Supriya Pathak, to help him in his search.
Meanwhile, earlier, SLB was in talks with Priyanka Chopra to play the lead in the film and it was then titled 'Heera Mandi'. Eventually, it was Alia Bhatt who bagged the film. 'Gangubai Kathiawadi' is based on a chapter from Husain Zaidi's novel 'Mafia Queens Of Mumbai'. The film will reportedly hit the screens on September 11, 2020.
