
# Bridge collapse at Montigo Resorts, Batam leaves 18 Singaporeans injured

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:23:07+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen.F**

Original: [The Online Citizen](https://www.theonlinecitizen.com/2019/11/08/bridge-collapse-at-montigo-resorts-batam-leaves-18-singaporeans-injured/)

Eighteen Singaporeans were injured when a 70m-long wooden bridge collapsed on Thursday afternoon (7 November). The Singaporeans were on holiday in Batam at Montigo Resorts in Nongsa. The resort is owned by Singaporean company KOP Limited, which is publicly listed on the Singapore Exchange.
According to reports by Sindonews, the 18 Singaporean tourists were taking photos on the bridge along with 12 others when it collapsed in the middle, sending them into the sea.
Riau Islands police spokesman Colonel S Erlangga said, “The victims fell into the sea and sustained injuries.”
He was also quoted by Detik.com as saying, “The wooden foundations of the bridge have probably decayed, leading to its collapse.”
Three injured persons were treated on the scene while 15 others were reportedly taken to Bhayangkara Hospital for treatment. There two were treated for minor injuries while 13 were warded, according to reports.
Col Erlangga said two people sustained serious injuries. One suffered a fractured right foot while the other sustained a fracture to the rib, according to a hospital employee.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Singapore is aware of the incident, saying that officers from the Consulate-General in Batam are at the hospital to offer their assistance.
According to the Batam Tribune, three employees of the Montigo Resort are being questioned in relation to the incident.
AKBP Mudji Supriyadi said, “There are three people we are currently examining at the Barelang Police Criminal Investigation. They also have the Chief of Security and Manager of Montigo Resort.”=
