
# BPL 2019 | BCB pushes Bangabandhu BPL to December 11 from December 6

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:34:44+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/bpl-2019-bcb-pushes-bangabandhu-bpl-to-december-11-from-december-6?utm_medium=rss)


        BCB president Nazmul Hasan has announced that BPL will get underway on December 11 after it was initially decided to be starting on December 6. BCB will conduct the T20 tournament following a model similar to that of the Big Bash League after failing to resolve the issues with franchises.
      
After Bangladesh Cricket Board's failure to resolve the issues with the franchises, who demanded more money from the board, the BCB had decided that it would host the tournament by themselves. The initial date planned for the tournament was October 6 but now Bangladesh Cricket Board president Nazmul Hasan announced that the special edition of Bangladesh Premier League will get underway on December 11.
This will also be a commemoration of Bangladesh's father of the nation Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's 100th birth anniversary. The tournament was originally scheduled to start on December 6 but as they had a fall out with the franchises and wanted to do everything on their own, it forced them to delay the start of the tournament by five days.
"We are going to start the BPL initially on December 6 but we are also going to arrange an opening ceremony. But happy to say that, the countdown for Bangabandhu birth anniversary is going to start from 8th, the government has already announced that," Nazmul told reporter on November 6.
"The Prime Minister will be present to inaugurate the Bangabandhu BPL. I think this is a huge achievement for us that, she will inaugurate the program. Our players draft will be on November 17 and though there will be Test it was an important thing to do it at that time. There was also a matter of getting hotel availability. So the opening ceremony is on 8th (December) and the game starts on the 11th (December)," he said.
There will be a total of seven teams in this year's BPL for which BCB have finalised five teams. The other two teams will be run by the board itself.
"There will be seven teams. We already finalized five sponsors. There were many applications. We still have two teams left for sponsorship and there is a big chance that the BCB will run these two teams," he said.
