
# Deals for Huawei Band 4 and Bluedio Hi TWS earphones - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:24:21+00:00**

Author: **Ying Hua**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/deals-for-huawei-band-4-and-bluedio-hi-tws-earphones/)

Rate this post
Smart wearables are conquering the market in major numbers, because more or less everybody wants to have some kind of these gadgets of their wrist. And following the biggest names in the category like Apple and Samsung comes the chinese giant Huawei with a new model of smartband. And no, this time it’s not one from the Honor sub-brand, but directly from Huawei themselves. And we have for you the new Huawei Band 4 on sale from Ebay and for a good measure we will throw in one deal for Bluedio Hi TWS earphones too.
But first let’s take a look at the Huawei Band 4, because some could argue it’s just a slightly different Honor Band 5. It can offer color 0.96-inch display with 160 x 80 pixel resolution, various available watch faces from the special Huawei Watch Face Store (only on Android though), sensors including optical heart rate monitor, 3-axis acceleration sensor or infrared sensor, 9 sports modes, TruSleep 2.0 sleep tracking. smart notification support, 91 mAh battery capacity promising 6 days on a charge, built-in USB port for easy charging and much more. All this can be yours in pink/orange/black from Ebay only for 29.90€.
Then we have for you the Bluedio Hi TWS wireless earphones featuring modern Bluetooth 5.0 connection, new Black technology with 13mm loudspeakers and moving coil for Hi-Fi quality audio, advanced coding, in-ear detection thanks to the built-in sensor chip, touch controls, integrated microphone, 55 mAh battery capacity for each of the earphones with 5-6 hours of working time, 600 mAh extra charging box and much more. Earphones are very light and in the box you will also find extra three pairs of replaceable ear tips. And the price ? Nothing major, just $12.30.
