
# Carly Simon questions #MeToo movement: ‘At this point it’s just dangerous for men to act like men’

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:15:03+00:00**

Author: **Madison Dibble**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/carly-simon-questions-metoo-movement-at-this-point-its-just-dangerous-for-men-to-act-like-men)

Singer Carly Simon warned that the #MeToo movement might have gone too far in its efforts to raise awareness of sexual harassment.
In an interview with The Guardian, Simon, 74, questioned whether the movement had worsened relationships between men and women, instead of improving them.
The You’re So Vain singer explained that she supported the #MeToo movement’s efforts but feared the pendulum might have swung too far. She hoped relations between men and women would “normalize.”
“I welcome it, and now I hope that it will go back to a position where things will be normalized,” she said. “Not that I want anybody to shut up or to not tell it like it is, but it also feels a little bit unnatural for me that men can’t say a flattering thing to a woman without there being a possible reckoning.”
She noted the movement might have made it “dangerous” for decent men to express masculinity.
“But I think at this point it’s just dangerous for men to act like men,” she explained, adding, “Not that the men who go overboard and disrespect a woman are acting like men.”
The #MeToo movement sparked after women, especially in Hollywood, highlighted incidents of sexual harassment they had faced throughout their careers.
Simon acknowledged that she experienced the “casting couch” harassment by powerful men in charge of her paychecks, but noted that men could be vulnerable to such positions, too.
“Maybe the time will come when we women who have been raped financially will be on the record to talk about that because I know a lot of other women who have been screwed,” Simon said. “A lot of men have been screwed, too.”
She added, “There aren’t as many of them as men who are in powerful positions to do it, but I’m sure that it’s probably being done by women as we speak. I can see 10 of them right now seducing young boys, saying that they’ll pay them.”
The #MeToo movement has been credited for bringing down several powerful men, including Harvey Weinstein and Matt Lauer.
In addition to her #MeToo movement criticisms, Simon also recounted an interaction between President Trump and herself.
The singer alleged that Trump was a fan of her music and had invited her to his Mar-a-lago property.
“All of a sudden become important through the eyes of Donald Trump,” she said. “So he was very anxious to meet me and invited me to Mar-a-Lago and was all over me like ugly on an ape.”
She declined Trump’s offer, claiming she thought he was “kind of repulsive.”
