
# Electric Ministry signs for power purchase with Partner Company

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Zaw Min Naing**

Original: [Eleven Media Group Co., Ltd](https://elevenmyanmar.com/news/electric-ministry-signs-for-power-purchase-with-partner-company)

 
NAYPYITAW-The Ministry of Electricity and Energy signed an agreement with Kyauk Phyu Electric Power Co; Ltd yesterday, subsidiary of a chinese based company, to purchase power for 135-MW hydropower project to be implemented in Kyaukphyu Township, Rakhine State.
It was attended by the Union Minister of Electricity and Energy Win Khaing, Deputy Ministers Dr Tun Naing and Khin Maung Win, the permanent secretary, departmental heads, officials from the Chinese Embassy, Sheng Yuming and Jia Zhijie from Kyauk Phyu Electrici Power Co; Ltd and Chairman Dr Sein Tun from Supre Group of Companies.
The 135-MW hydropower project to be implemented in Kyauk Phyu Township is one of the four projects of the government’s long-term plan.
“Myanmar’s power demand is increasing by 1,000 MW annually. The135-MW Kyauk Phyu hydropower project, which is one of the four projects, to which the notice of proceed was awarded to begin the works in 2018 and to generate 3,111 MW on completion. So, the government signed an agreement to purchase power for Kyauk Phyu 135-MW hydropower project. The long-term projects will take at least three years to start the generation. The ministry is also implementing the seven short-term projects with the total power output of 1,166-MW to meet the demand in 2020. Now, the deep-sea port is being constructed in Maday Island in Kyaukphyu Township, Rakhine State. Moreover, Myanmar is importing crude oil to China through oil pipeline. In electricity sector, the power is being generated from 400-MW Shwe Li No.1, 99-MW Chiphwe and 106-MW CCGT in Thakayta Township, Yangon Region and it is also supplied to the National Grid,” said Win Khaing.
The power plant is situated in the compound of 230-KV Main Power sub-station in Kyaukphyu Township, Rakhine State and it will be built by Kyauk Phyu Electric Power Co;Ltd which is a joint-venture Chinese Company in BOT system with Myanmar.
The annual power output is estimated at 1,005 million units supply power demand of Rakhine State and the national grid.
 
 
Zaw Min Naing
 
