
# First Lady Melania Trump to visit Boston as part of 'Be Best' initiative

Published at: **2019-11-05T02:56:52+00:00**

Author: **EndPlay**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/first-lady-melania-trump-to-visit-boston-as-part-of-be-best-initiative/1005131340?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

BOSTON - First Lady Melania Trump is scheduled to visit Boston this week as part of her "Be Best" campaign.
Mrs. Trump will be at Boston Medical Center to learn more about a treatment program for babies with Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS), as part of the "Be Best" initiative.
Babies born with NAS experience withdrawal from a number of drugs, usually opioids, and require lengthy stays in the hospital.
During treatment, babies might be fussy and hard to soothe, where techniques such as skin-to-skin care, swaddling, breastfeeding or gentle interactions with the baby are used as part of their healing process.
Babies affected by NAS might develop long-term issues such as hearing and vision problems as well as behavioral and learning problems.
Mrs. Trump will be learning about the BMC's Cuddling Assists in Lowering Maternal and Infant Stress, or CALM, Program, designed to help babies affected by NAS through their withdrawal symptoms.
BMC has, along with the CALM program, developed several other treatment programs aimed at helping pregnant women with Substance Use Disorder (SUD) and their newborn babies from suffering from the impacts of SUD.
During her visit, Mrs. Trump will also tour BMC's pediatric unit to see how these programs are implemented and meet with children and families who have been successfully treated.
