
# You Can Buy The Canon T7i With Two Lenses For Just $699 Today

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:29:40+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/best-buy-canon-eos-rebel-t7i-camera-bundle-sale-cheap)

Best Buy has the Canon T7i with two lenses bundled in its early Black Friday sale. It is just $699. That's a savings of around $500 for this bundle, which is pretty incredible.
And it's very unlikely that this is going to drop any further, when Black Friday comes around in about three weeks.
The Canon T7i is a really great camera for those that are new to photography, and looking to get a decent camera that takes some good pictures. Of course, with DSLRs, it's more about how good the photographer is, than how good the camera is. But this is a really decent piece of kit.
Advertisement
Best Buy has it bundled with the 18-55mm and 55-200mm lenses, which are going to give you a good starting point with this camera. It'll allow you to get some really nice zoomed in shots, as well as some up close shots.
The T7i does have a pretty good 24.2-megapixel sensor inside, which is going to grab all kinds of detail. Imagine pairing this with a really good macro lens, you can get some really incredible shots with this camera.
Now, the only downside with the Canon T7i is the fact that it does not do 4K video. Instead, it only does 1080p video. Which is okay, but in 2019, 4K would definitely be better. The good thing is, it does produce some really good 1080p video though, with up to 60fps.
Advertisement
If you were looking to get this and use it to start a YouTube channel, it's a really good option. And one that's not going to break the bank, especially since it is just $699 right now. And Best Buy has a number of other lenses from Canon on sale right now.
You can pick up the Canon EOS Rebel T7i on sale from Best Buy by clicking here.

        Canon T7i Bundle - Best Buy - $699
      
Advertisement
