
# How to download Microsoft Office preview for iOS and Android

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:05:21+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/microsoft-office-beta-ios-and-android?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Windows Central
      
Microsoft has unveiled work on a new Office app soon headed to iOS and Android, bundling Word, Excel, and PowerPoint into a central hub for productivity needs. Operating as a one-stop-shop for core Office experiences, it retains the full functionality of each application, now streamlined into one interface. Word, Excel, and PowerPoint reside as standalone experiences on Apple's Apple Store and the Google Play Store, with the app set to eliminate that disconnect.
While Office hasn't formally launched on iOS and Android, Microsoft has kicked off beta testing via TestFlight for iOS and Google Play for Android. Here's how to try the new Microsoft Office app today.

        Source: Windows Central
      
Microsoft hosts the Office iOS beta via TestFlight, Apple's dedicated portal for public app testing. The app allows for simple registration by following the steps below. Visit this guide on your iOS device to streamline the beta installation process.
Microsoft Office for iOS is now installed on your device, including all available pre-release features.

        Source: Windows Central
      
The Microsoft Office preview for Android ties into Google Groups, requiring testers to register with their Google Account to access the pre-release build. The guided process enrolls users, followed by download access.
Microsoft Office for Android is now installed on your device, including all available pre-release features.
Microsoft Office debuts on mobile as a promising foundation, streamlining prior bloat of its software suite. The app currently supports a majority of existing Word, Excel, and PowerPoint functionality, including the ability to create and edit files with OneDrive integration.
The best Office solution for students
The inclusion of OneDrive storage, multi-device use, Skype minutes, and tech support on top of access to all Office apps makes Office 365 a true winner for just about anyone, including students. If you're attending university, don't forget to check out special pricing for those who qualify.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        That's not good Your Google Home or Amazon Echo can be hacked using laser pointers Researchers have found that it is possible to hack smart speakers, phones, tablets, and video chat devices such as Facebook Portal with the help of “light commands.”
      

        Facebook New Face Facebook's new corporate logo is as boring as they come Facebook has announced a new corporate logo design, as well as a corporate initiative to include the new logo on all of its major app and service properties.
      

        TikTok Ring Ring The company that owns TikTok created a smartphone for China ByteDance, the company that owns the social network service TikTok, has released a smartphone for the Chinese market with a TikTok lock screen feature.
      

        Who needs a wallet? Keep your wallet put away and pay with your Wear OS watch Ready to start paying for your coffee with just your watch? Here are all the Wear OS devices that support Google Pay!
      
