
# Sebastian Gorka, former Trump adviser, loses YouTube account over copy

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Blake**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/5/sebastian-gorka-former-trump-adviser-loses-youtube/)

Former Trump adviser Sebastian Gorka had his YouTube account yanked Monday after videos of his conservative talk show triggered multiple copyright complaints.
The official channel for Mr. Gorka’s show on the Salem Radio Network, “America First,” was removed from YouTube along with a number of episodes uploaded during the last 10 months.
“This video is no longer available because the YouTube account associate this video has been terminated,” reads a message displayed by YouTube where the videos once appeared.
A spokesperson for YouTube has since confirmed the account was terminated due to “multiple copyright strikes,” The Daily Beast reported.
Representatives for neither YouTube nor Mr. Gorka immediately returned messages requesting further information, including which content the copyright strikes concerned.
But the account’s removal came on the heels of complaints mounted by Dan Reynolds, lead vocalist of American pop group Imagine Dragons, who has repeatedly taken issue in recent months with his music being used in episodes of Mr. Gorka’s program sans approval.
“I’ve never given permission for this use. Please stop playing imagine dragons on your show @SebGorka,” Mr. Reynolds tweeted in August.
More recently, Mr. Reynolds tweeted he was “losing my mind” last month after learning that Mr. Gorka was continuing to upload videos containing Imagine Dragon’s music despite YouTube taking action against dozens of earlier clips.
Told by another Twitter user Tuesday that Mr. Gorka’s account was gone, Mr. Reynolds responded with several emojis depicting a man dancing.
Mr. Gorka, 49, held the role of deputy assistant to the president for the first seven months of Mr. Trump’s administration. His daily radio show launched in January, and clips of the program were regularly uploaded to the YouTube channel before its sudden removal this week. Segments of the show have subsequently been uploaded to a newly establish channel in his name.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
