
# Realme 3 Pro and Realme X get updates for Dark Mode and October 2019 security patches

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:48:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/realme-3-pro-realme-x-get-updates-dark-mode-october-2019-security-patches/)

Over the last year, Realme has launched a vast array of phones in different price brackets. Phones from the company have found tremendous popularity in the Indian market and for good reason. The devices offer great hardware specifications at a very competitive price, making them an absolute no-brainer for anyone looking to buy a decent phone on the cheap. While the devices do pack in great hardware, they’re always lacking in terms of software. Realme still relies on Oppo’s ColorOS and has officially shelved plans to develop its own Android skin. Nonetheless, the company has been doing a great job of providing software updates for its devices and it recently started rolling out an OTA update for the Realme 3 Pro and the Realme X.

        Realme 3 Pro XDA Forums || Realme X XDA Forums
      
The latest OTA updates, version RMX1901EX_11.A.09 for the Realme X and version RMX1851EX_11_A.20 for the Realme 3 Pro, include a new system-wide dark mode and the Android security patch for October 2019. Along with these common features, there are a couple of device-specific optimizations and improvements. The OTA update is being rolled out in a staged fashion, which means that only a handful of users will receive it during the initial rollout. Once the company confirms that there are no major bugs, the update will be pushed to the remaining users. The good thing about this approach is that Realme can be sure that the update won’t brick devices and that’s already proving to be useful. A recent update on the Realme’s original announcement reveals that the company has discovered a critical bug in the Realme X OTA update. Therefore, the update has been put off temporarily. If you’ve already received the update notification, it would be best to wait till the company fixes the issue before you install it on your device.
Realme X OTA version RMX1901EX_11.A.09:
Security
System
Settings
Notification Center and Status Bar
Touch
Known issues fixed
Realme 3 Pro OTA version RMX1851EX_11_A.20:
Security:
System
Notification Center and Status Bar
Settings
Touch

        Source: Realme (1,2)
      
