
# Google Debuts Play Store Rewards System So You Can Exchange Points For Purchases

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mikelle Leow**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407214/Google-Debuts-Play-Store-Rewards-System-So-You-Can-Exchange-Points-For-Purchases/)

Google is encouraging Android users to make full use of their smartphones through apps by introducing an incentive system. Google Play Points, previously available only in Japan and South Korea, is now open to US customers, and rewards users for downloading apps. Android users can earn Google Play Points when they purchase in-app items, subscriptions, movies, books, and even featured free apps and games. The rewards program also conducts weekly point events to multiply your earning rate. Points can be exchanged for “special items and discounts” in popular games like Pokémon GO and Candy Crush Saga—where you’ll be able to buy characters or gem—or stored as credit to purchase apps, movies, games, and books. Google Play Points is free to join, and consists of four tiers: Bronze; Silver; Gold; Platinum. Advancing to higher levels boosts your earning rate per dollar, which can go up to 1.4 Play Points per dollar. Each tier also has its own weekly events, so the more you level up, the more lucrative the reward system gets. Advertisement Advertisement For those who wish to convert their points into something more meaningful, Google also offers the option “to help support a great cause—or causes—of your choice from a rotating list of nonprofits,” beginning with Doctors Without Borders USA, Save the Children and the World Food Program USA. To register to the free Google Play Points program, simply open the Play Store app via your phone, tap menu, and then select Play Points. To further motivate you to download more apps, the program even triples your points during your first week. Score.
[via BGR, images via Google Blog]
