
# Pitso: We Were A Bit Emotionally Dented After Chiefs…

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:56:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/mamelodi-sundowns/pitso-mosimane-speaks-after-chippa-united-clash/666847)

Pitso Mosimane admitted that the loss to Kaizer Chiefs still somewhat affected his side when they faced Chippa United in the Telkom Knockout competition.

        
          Read more: Sundowns’ R8m Striker To Lead List Of 5 Potential Exits?
        
      
Mamelodi Sundowns progressed to the semi-finals of the TKO at the weekend, where they defeated Chippa in a penalty shootout. 
However, Mosimane revealed the reason for their form on the day, although will need to quickly gain confidence as a tough test against Baroka FC awaits the Brazilians. 
“We came from a loss last week and the guys are a little bit emotionally dented…” Mosimane said after the Chippa encounter.
“Sundowns always respond to emotions, the game against Baroka will be much better. Even though the win against Chippa was not a 5-0 like we did against AmaZulu FC but I think they will come back. We have to make changes, now in three days, it is a tough one. 
“The game in Polokwane is a difficult one for us because we have a game in hand. So we have to hustle and make sure we win the match. It is not important how you won it and play the Sundowns way when you have Themba Zwane out and Sirino out.
“So we need to grind it, we can also play quiet and win a match,” he added. 
