
# Inquest set into death at Regina Correctional Centre

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:14:39+00:00**

Author: **Regina Leader-Post**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/saskatchewan/inquest-set-into-death-at-regina-correctional-centre)

A public inquest into the death of an inmate at Regina Correctional Centre a little more than a year ago will begin on Nov. 25.
Elton Heebner was found unresponsive in his cell at the jail on Sept. 2, 2018. Medical personnel responded and upon assessment pronounced him dead.
The inquest will be held Nov. 25 to 29 at the Holiday Inn and Suites, 1800 Prince of Wales Dr. in Regina.  The first day of the inquest is scheduled to begin at 10 a.m., with remaining start times to be determined by the presiding coroner. Coroner Brent Gough will preside at the inquest.
Under The Coroners Act, 1999, the Chief Coroner shall hold an inquest into the death of a person who dies while an inmate at a jail or a correctional facility, unless the coroner is satisfied that the person’s death was due entirely to natural causes and was not preventable.
The purpose of an inquest is to establish who died, when and where that person died and the medical cause and manner of death. A six-person coroner’s jury may make recommendations to prevent similar deaths.
The Saskatchewan Coroners Service is responsible for the investigation of all sudden, unexpected deaths.
Neither the Ministry of Corrections nor the Coroners Service had previously released any information about Heebner’s death while in custody.
