
# Xbox Elite Wireless Controller Series 2 set to launch in more countries

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:25:00+00:00**

Author: **Ash**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/xbox-elite-wireless-controller-series-2-set-to-launch-in-more-countries/)


        The Xbox Elite Wireless Controller Series 2 is already available in 31 countries, but will be up for purchase in a whole seven more later this year.
      
The Elite Series 2 will be available in Argentina, Chile, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, and the United Arab Emirates.
Xbox Wire reports that shipping for Argentina and Chile will begin on November 22nd. Saudi Arabia, South Africa, and the United Arab Emirates will begin shipping on November 25th and shipping for Singapore and Taiwan will begin a little bit later, on December 19th.
If you’re interested in what the Elite 2 has to offer, you can pick one up for yourself by following the link here.  You can also read more about the Elite Series 2 below. Happy gaming!

        
          Original post below:
        
      

        Xbox’s latest Elite controller, the Xbox Elite Wireless Controller Series 2, is now officially up for purchase in most countries.
      
While the controller sports a price tag of $179.99/£159.99, it’s worth it for what you get. With adjustable-tension thumbsticks, shorter hair trigger locks, wrap-around rubberised grip, and re-engineered components, this controller is made for those who want to get the absolute best out of their games.
The Xbox Elite Wireless Controller Series 2 also offers intimate customisation options thanks to its interchangeable thumbsticks and paddles and its range of button remapping options.
With six adjustable thumbsticks (two standard, two classic, one tall, and one wide dome) and four modifiable paddles (two medium, two mini), you can adjust your controller exactly to your liking and have full control over the way you play.
