
# African Superstar Rescues Victory For Liverpool

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:34:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/english-premier-league-wrap-02-november-2019/666587)


        Aston Villa 1-2 Liverpool
      
Liverpool maintained their six-point lead at the top of the table after snatching victory at Aston Villa.
It was Villa who broke the deadlock on 21 minutes thanks to a strike from Egypt international Trezeguet.
The Reds managed to pull themselves in the 88th minute when Andy Robertson caught the Villa defence napping at the back to nod in at the far post.
Sadio Mane struck the winner for Jurgen Klopp's side in the fourth minute time added on with a neat glancing header.

        Manchester City 2-1 Southampton
      
Manchester City had a comeback of their own at the Etihad after rallying from behind to defeat Southampton.
James Ward-Prowse silenced the home fans after 13 minutes with a close-range finish after Stuart Armstrong's initial effort was saved.
Sergio Aguero got the comeback underway with a first-time finish on 70 minutes before Kyle Walker sealed the winner in the 86th minute.

        Arsenal 1-1 Wolverhampton Wanderers
      
Arsenal's struggles continued after playing to a 1-1 draw with Wolverhampton Wanderers at the Emirates Stadium.
It was going good for the Gunners when Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang opened the scoring with his 50th goal ofor the club in the 21st minute.
However, the visitors secured a point thanks to Raul Jimenez's towering header in the 76th minute.

        Other results:
      
Brigton and Hove Albion 2-0 Norwich City Sheffield United 3-0 BurnleyWest Ham United 2-3 Newcastle United
