
# What channel is Liverpool vs Genk on? TV and live stream information

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Sam Fletcher**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/what-channel-liverpool-vs-genk-20812638)

Liverpool are back in Champions League action after their dramatic comeback at Villa Park on Saturday.
Following Sadio Mane’s stoppage-time winner against Aston Villa, Jurgen Klopp’s attention turns to matchday four of the UEFA Champions League as his Liverpool side take on Genk at Anfield.
The cup holders bagged four in Belgium in the reverse fixture as Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain netted a brace, with his second goal the pick of the bunch - an outside-of-the-boot finish from the edge of the area that was described by Klopp as "spectacular".
Liverpool currently lie 2nd in Group E, behind Napoli, the only side to have beaten the Reds in all competitions this season.
Here is all the key information you need to know ahead of the game…
The game takes place on Tuesday 5th November - expect fireworks.
Kick-off is set for 8pm.
Liverpool’s famous Anfield Stadium is the setting for this one.
Since returning to the Champions League in 2017, Liverpool are yet to lose a European fixture at Anfield.
If you’re a UK viewer you will need a BT Sport subscription if you’re wanting to watch the game.
The game is available on BT Sport 3 with coverage starting at 7:15pm.
If you are a BT Sport subscriber and are based in the UK, you can stream the action through their website and the BT Sport app.
Alternatively, you can follow all of the action on the Mirror Football live blog.
There are no fresh injury concerns for Jurgen Klopp with all his players coming through the Aston Villa game unscathed.
The only absentees are Joel Matip, Xherdan Shaqiri and Nathaniel Clyne, who are all suffering from long-term injuries.
Genk will have to do without first-choice goalkeeper Danny Vukovic who is ruled out due to an Achilles tendon injury. Gaetan Coucke would be the natural choice to fill in between the sticks.
It’s expected manager Felice Mazzu will welcome back Mbwana Samatta into the starting eleven after he was benched against KAS Eupen at the weekend.
Liverpool 1/12
Draw 11/1
Genk 28/1

        Odds courtesy of thepools.com
      
