
# You May Be Surprised At The Premier League’s Over- And Underachievers This Season

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bobby McMahon**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bobbymcmahon/2019/11/03/you-may-be-surprised-at-the-premier-leagues-over-and-underachievers-this-season/)

It’s an excuse that has been offered up as long as the game has been played - “but we deserved to win.”
But it’s only in the last few years that we have had access to a level of stats that buttress such arguments or help to demolish them.
The advent of xG and xGA offers us some insight into the teams and players that are overachieving as well as those underachieving.
xG and xGA are measures of the quality of chances created and those allowed.
A team may be dominating possession but is it translating into the type of quality opportunities that are more likely to produce goals? Or, is it a case of a team getting a rub of the green?
Understat is a source of that kind of detail and with almost a third of the 2020 season already played, the stats make interesting reading.
The X numbers that follow have been rounded.

        Points total
      
Liverpool are top of the Premier League and six points ahead of Manchester City and the two top teams play each other at Anfield this coming Sunday.
While Manchester City are performing marginally below what might be expected - 25 to an expected 27 - Liverpool have overachieving by a phenomenal 8 points. It gives some credence to those who’ve suggested that Liverpool’s performances are out-of-sync with their points total of 31 from a possible 33.
Saturday’s last-gasp win over Aston Villa was a good example of Liverpool finding a way to win without playing particularly well. Although over-performing in both xG and xGA the numbers don’t come any place close to supporting a “plus” 8 points.
Leicester are another spectacular overachiever with a return of 23 points from performances that would normally generate 16 points.
At the other end of points continuum there is Watford and Manchester United. Watford’s performances should have been worth 14 points rather than the current 5 that have them bottom of the Premier League.
Manchester United are sitting mid-table but based on xPTS United should be up in 3rd spot with 20 points.

        Goals For / Against
      
To say that Brendan Rodgers and Leicester are over delivering would be an understatement. We have already covered their points total but the primary driver is how clinical Leicester are when the chances come in and around the opposition’s goal.
The 9-0 drubbing of Southampton certainly skews the stats but nonetheless Leicester have consistently scored more goals this season than might be expected from the quality of chances they’re creating. Leicester have scored 27 goals this season against a xG of just 14 - against Southampton the xG was almost 5.
Watford’s and Manchester United’s woes can be largely explained by a failure to convert chances into goals - Watford with 6 goals against a xG of 14; Manchester United with 13 goals against an expected 18.
At the defensive end, Sheffield United have been receiving many plaudits this season and no team has allowed fewer goals than the Blades. However, Sheffield United might be ridding a bit of good fortune having conceded just 8 goals against a xGA of nearly 15. Or, it could be a case of outstanding goalkeeping.
Dean Henderson let in a howler a few weeks ago against Liverpool but it shouldn’t taint what has been a very good season so far for the Manchester United player on loan to Sheffield United.
Since the Liverpool game, Henderson has conceded just one goal in four Premier League games.

        Goals scorers
      
Jamie Vardy leads the Premier League is scoring with 10 goals although based on the chances that have come his way it should be closer to 5 goals. No other player comes close to Vardy’s efficiency in turning chances into goals.
In fact, only Tammy Abraham (Chelsea) and Arsenal’s Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang are beating their expected goals by more than 2.
Nine of the top 10 goalscorers are “over producing” and the only exception is Manchester United’s Marcus Rashford. Rashford has scored 5 goals against an expected tally of 7.
The others in the top ten are Sergio Aguero, Raheem Sterling, Harry Kane, Sadio Mane, Teemu Pukki, and Callum Wilson.
