
# Shannon Briggs claims Logan Paul will be heavyweight world champion ahead of KSI rematch

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/shannon-briggs-claims-logan-paul-20834721)

Logan Paul has been backed to become a heavyweight world champion - but KSI has rubbished the idea.
The two YouTube rivals clash in their eagerly-awaited rematch here in Los Angeles on Saturday night.
The pair fought to a controversial draw last August and will now finally settle their beef in the ring.
Paul recruited former champion Shannon Briggs as his trainer - and the American has predicted a bright future for the social media influencer.
"He's going to heavyweight champion in three to five years, mark my words, I did it twice," he said.
"I got the blueprint; he is the specimen, he has the body, the agility, the athleticism, everything it takes.
"I became heavyweight champion of the world after less than 40 fights; his amateur career is going to be at home and he's going to fight pro; three to five years.
"He's young, he's 24, what's the rush? By the time he's 27 he's going to be in contention.
"Boxing changes every week, every month. A guy's the heavyweight champion and then he's gone.
"In three to five years there may be no [Deontay] Wilder, there may be no [Tyson] Fury, I'm sure there won't because they're making too much money.
"He will be around, he's doing it at home right now."
Paul insists he will pursue a career in boxing after Saturday night with Briggs claiming he will fight 10-12 times next year and again in 2021.
The American also wants to try his hand at mixed martial arts having wrestled at college in Ohio.
KSI - real name Olajide William Olatunji - also plans to fight on after his clash with Paul at the Staples Center.
But he has set his sights considerably lower than his rival's.
"I will continue in boxing I wont be fighting Canelo [Alvarez] or boxing champions," he said.
"I wont be like him (Logan) and vowing to fight and beat Anthony Joshua.
"I can be smart with it; next I'll fight a proper pro who will be alright. I'll beat him and then build the card around that. I can do that easily in the UK."
