
# How To Maximize Your Seasonal Sales With Minimal Budget - And No Sales Team

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alison Coleman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/alisoncoleman/2019/11/01/how-to-maximize-your-seasonal-sales-with-minimal-budgetand-no-sales-team/)

Maximizing the holiday shopping season is critical for many businesses. For larger companies with sales divisions creating timely and effective promotions is routine, but for startups with no dedicated sales or marketing teams to engage customers it’s time to get creative.Sales on a shoestring
Keeping costs down by doing as much free marketing as possible is a must, says Andrew Dark, director and co-owner at printwear specialists Custom Planet.
He says: “Social Media is an obvious avenue, but you have to build your audience. Start running competitions and giveaways to gain followers as soon as you can, even before your business has officially opened, and create an exclusive waiting list.”
Collect email addresses you can use to market your product or service as soon as you launch. Building a crowdfunding campaign offering free products or discounts in exchange for funding so you have a customer base ready as soon as you open is a great way to build a buzz about your business before it’s open.
Once money starts coming in, Dark advises using any spare cash to hire a good digital marketing company.
“Outsourcing this type of work to the experts can take your marketing to the next level,” he says. “Anything from SEO to PPC, and social media to PR can be handled by outside experts. It can be pricey, but start small, see what works and once you are getting a return, put more money in.”

        Tap into PR opportunities
      
Doing some basic PR and not being afraid to jump on something happening in the news can reap big benefits for a small startup.
“It takes time to build momentum, but it helps with brand awareness and can be super targeted,” says Cathy White, founder of CEW Communications. “Earned media has its benefits, whether it’s a short product release targeting a consumer market, or a trade piece for your ideal B2B customer.”
Her advice is to keep up with the news, follow and connect with journalists relevant to your business, and frame yourself as an expert and to profile your product or service in the right way.
“When particular videos or clips are trending, or something related to your brand happens in the media, jump on it through your own channels and come up with deals that are tongue in cheek,” says White. “Big name brands do it all the time, and you can do it yourself without the need for a full external media, advertising, and communications team.”

        Track your clients’ business schedules
      
An effective way of marketing to an existing client base is to find out about their schedules. Talk to them about key dates in their annual calendar, note them in your diary and then contact them when they’re likely to be in the planning stage.
“It’s free and it’s easy to do,” says Erica Wolfe-Murray, founder of Lola Media. “Every sector works to different seasons, so take time to learn the underlying calendar driving your target sectors, and ensure you are across when they may be receptive to your approach.”
Marketing is about consistency too. Sometimes your marketing may land when a potential customer is not in a position to buy, ditto the second time, but the third time you could strike lucky and get a callback.
“Small ventures need to be highly inventive in how they market to punch through the noise,” says Wolfe-Murray. “Learn useful tips and tricks from big companies and then apply them inventively to your business and sector.”

        Dominate your niche with local SEO
      
In the digital age, startups can save thousands by investing in a well oiled website and a smart local SEO strategy rather than employing a sales team. Top of any startup’s to-do list should be how to increase visibility to exploit Google’s use of keyword clusters to steadily drip-feed new visitors to your site who are looking for your services, says Michael Fitzgibbon, director of SEO agency Digital Tepee.
“These should focus on intent-driven keywords that will bring organic traffic to your site looking to make a purchase,” he says. “Finding a salesperson that can regularly do this could cost you a five or six-figure salary. An affordable SEO plan executed well will cost a fraction of this and provide a constant flow of quality leads . Tying this together with a connected social strategy will give a continuous online profile to exploit seasonal promotions and content updates.”

        Launch a customer referral program
      
Incentivizing your existing customers and followers to bring their networks to you is a very effective way of gaining a wider audience and increasing revenues at a lower cost. There are a couple of ways of doing this, as Peter Rossi, founder and strategy director at Equals Collective, explains.
He says: “You can incentivize your existing customers to gain an ongoing discount on their services from you each time they refer someone who signs up or buys something. Accounting software firm FreeAgent does this well. For each customer you refer in, they'll reduce your monthly bill by 10%. Sign up 10 new clients and you pay nothing forever.”
Existing customers can also be incentivized to get a shared net new reward with the new customer. “You can use a cheap link tracking service like Click Meter to generate unique links for clients,” says Rossi. “You need to know your margins and what you can afford to do - but it's a cheap alternative to an expensive paid campaign.”
