
# Anti-smoking advocate worried over government delay on tobacco laws

Published at: **2019-11-07T02:06:01+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Babych**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/anti-smoking-advocate-worried-over-government-delay-on-tobacco-laws)

Another stall on banning e-cigarettes from public spaces and eliminating flavoured water pipe tobacco worries an anti-smoking advocate.
The Alberta government has extended the expiration date for some sections of tobacco legislation that have been swept under the rug for five years until the Alberta Tobacco Reduction Amendment Act can be reviewed. Rather than being adopted into law with the rest of the act in 2014, a handful of contentious sections were put on hold until this year’s mandatory five-year review.
“We’re pleased with the broad review of the act but protection delayed is protection denied,” said Les Hagen, the executive director of Action on Smoking and Health. “This has already been delayed for five long years and we don’t need another year of delay.”
The sections of the act that haven’t been set as law include a provincewide ban on vaping or smoking e-cigarettes in public establishments that reflects the cigarette smoking ban already in place, a ban on waterpipe smoking in public establishments, and an extension of the ban on flavoured tobacco to include flavoured waterpipe tobacco.
“Flavoured waterpipe tobacco has become the most popular form of flavoured tobacco among Alberta’s young people because we have prohibited the use of other major forms of flavoured tobacco,” said Hagen, adding the flavour and accessibility is harmful to youth. “This is about protecting kids.”
Some municipalities in Alberta have passed bylaws banning e-cigarettes and water pipes in public spaces but the majority of municipalities have left those topics untouched. After Edmonton proposed an end to the smoking exemption for hookah bars by 2021, Calgary opened the same debate by asking for public input this summer.
“The Redford government brought this act in; the Prentice government proclaimed most of it, leaving these sections out; and the Notley government did nothing on it,” said Hagen. “This government is now reviewing it, but I’m saying there’s no need to review these sections because they’ve been reviewed. They just need to be proclaimed.
“It’s been sitting there for several years and there’s been plenty of time for second thought and review. So why stall one second more?”
Health Minister Tyler Shandro said the unproclaimed sections have been extended so they don’t fall off the radar.
“We started working on this file back in May, actually when we became aware that we did have a review that was going to be mandatory in November,” said Shandro. “We’re making sure it’s completed by the end of the year.”
Press secretary Steve Buick said the extension is for a year but the sections will be addressed sooner than that.
“The minister has been clear from the start that the review will address all these provisions, they will not be deferred,” said Buick in a statement.
The government announced the review at the end of October, opening an online survey for public input on vaping legislation until Nov. 29. After Saskatchewan introduced vaping legislation Tuesday, Alberta became the only province without any controls on vaping consumption, sales and marketing.

        sbabych@postmedia.com
      
On Twitter: @BabychStephanie
