
# Return of Peyton Reed means the return of 'Ant-Man'

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:39:13+00:00**

Author: **Entertainment Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2092765/4-return-peyton-reed-means-return-ant-man/)

The Ant’s corner will remain in the realm of Peyton Reed, from Marvel’s Cinematic Universe. The director helmed 2015’s Ant-Man and 2018’s Ant-Man and the Wasp. He has now signed on to helm a third Ant-Man movie, according to an exclusive by the Hollywood Reporter.
Paul Rudd shall return as Scott Lang, to reenact the heist-hearting hero with the power of petiteness in the new installment. The role will official mark his fifth time as the character, aside any other surprise appearances.
As off now, the plot details are being  hidden with the release details also remaining under the carpet.
However, sources have confirmed the shooting plans, addressing the end of 2020 or the beginning of 2021 for the initiation of the film, while the release is expected by 2022.
According to Hollywood Reporter, the sequels of Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness and Thor: Love and Thunder will shoot before Ant-Man 3.  
Much like his fellow Marvel cohorts Joe and Anthony Russo, Reed started off in the comedy worlds of TV and movies, making his feature directorial debut with cheer-leading comedy Bring It On. Movies such as Down with Love, The Break-Up and Yes Man followed.
He was brought into the Marvel universe when, late in the movie’s development process, he replaced Edgar Wright to helm Ant-Man. The movie grossed $519.3 million. The sequel, which Reed was more involved with, grew to a $622.6 million gross.
