
# Little Mix joined by star-studded crowd for PrettyLittleThing launch

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:47:57+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/little-mix-joined-star-studded-20829320)

Little Mix made sure to steal the show for the launch of their first fashion collection with PrettyLittleThing.
Jesy Nelson, Perrie Edwards, Jade Thirwall and Leigh-Anne Pinnock turned out in matching gold ensembles for their exclusive party at Anyhoe Park House.
The girl group have unveiled an exciting collaboration with the online brand to give their loyal fans a chance to dress just like them.
And many of the celeb-packed crowd turning out in support of the band on Wednesday night seized the opportunity to copy their style too.
Posing for pictures ahead of the bash, Leigh-Anne worked a series of sultry poses in a strapless crop top and mini skirt.
Fresh from her well -received BBC3 documentary, Jesy Nelson was looking the definition of body-confidence dressed in a gold bralet and high-waisted flares from the collection.
While Perrie from the band stood out in a strapless corset layered over a crisp white shirt, which she teamed with a pair of matching thigh high boots and a quirky headband.
Jade completed the line-up looking stunning in a thigh-skimming mini dress and heeled boots.
They were joined on the night by a host of famous pals, including fellow PrettyLittleThing ambassador Molly-Mae Hague.
Molly turned out to support the girls clad in a snakeskin dress and boots from their collection.
The Love Island star, who was without Tommy Fury for the evening, appeared to be loving her time in front of the cameras as she showed off her head-turning outfit.
Little Mix's former X Factor mentor Tulisa Contostavlos was also on hand to support the girls.
Tulisa has been a huge fan of the girls ever since they appeared together on the 2011 series of the ITV talent show together.
She also tweeted her support to Jesy Nelson following the release of her Odd One Out documentary in September.
Kate Moss' 'It girl' sister Lottie Moss was also in attendance, clad in a transparent dress that flashed her bodysuit.
While the Saturday's Vanessa White and Aston Merrygold of JLS fame also enjoyed their evening with Little Mix.
