
# William Shatner takes down 'entitled' millennials after one brands him a 'boomer'

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:17:32+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/william-shatner-takes-down-entitled-20833450)

William Shatner has waged war on millennials after one called him a "boomer".
The Twitter user had tweeted the now viral catchphrase "OK Boomer" at the Star Trek actor, 88, who responded that he thought it was a "compliment".
As he was born in 1931, he isn't considered a Baby Boomer, but took issue with the woman using it as an insult and called her a "diva".
She responded: "Not really into pejoratives, but what's the term for people when they can't interpret a joke?"
Shatner asked her if she meant Millennials as he explained that he was "already sick of this OK Boomer nonsense."
He tweeted: "I feel it's like one of those childish insults in fandom that seem to affect the delicate types to the point they meltdown and go over the rest of our heads as something ridiculous.
"If the person posting it thinks they are making a dig; they are the fools."
Another Twitter user replied to him saying that the phrase is not meant for every older person, just "ignorant ones".
He responded: "And just what are we ignorant about Courtney?
"We don't understand struggles? War? Depressions (economic not personal)? Inflation? Double digit Prime Interest rates?"
They told him that Millennials had inherited "hardships [which] are not their fault" that older people didn't understand.
Shatner told her: "Is that all your generation does is point fingers and blame others for their pity parties?
"You don't get a participation trophy for life; you take what you get and play your best hand. It's been that way since forever."
She asked him why he was so offended, but he responded: "Unlike you; the generations designation doesn't define me nor am I too worried about getting labeled because it makes no difference to me.
"You seemed to be obsessed; blaming other gens. Some millennials are pushing 40. You aren't kids."
He then finished his rant, saying: "Her bio says she's an actress. No production wants someone who blames their situation on everyone else. That's Divaesque.
"She entitled to her opinion but she isn't doing herself any favors by pretending she's siding with millennials while pretending she's not one."
