
# Anti-gun campaigner shoots dead her 3 kids before killing herself after divorce

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:54:27+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/anti-gun-campaigner-shoots-dead-20795371)

An anti-gun activist shot dead her three kids before killing herself just days after her divorce was finalised.
Ashley Auzenne, 39, turned the handgun on herself after murdering her children Parrish, 11, Eleanor, nine, and Lincoln, seven, at their home in Texas.
Murvin Auzenne Jnr, the children's father, said his ex-wife was "very upset" with the terms of their divorce, which meant that she would have to get a job and pay him rent if she stayed in the family home.
The devastated dad said there were no warning signs before the triple murder-suicide and nothing to suggest that his wife was "capable of this".
 
The mum and children were found dead in different areas of the home in Deer Park, just east of Houston, just before 9am local time on Tuesday during a welfare check by police.
A family member called police saying relatives hadn't heard from Auzenne in a number of days.
Mr Auzenne told the Houston Chronicle: “Ashley tried her best to be a good mother.
"She and I had our issues, we argued and fought just like any other couple headed for divorce, but I never had any reason to believe she was capable of this.
"Nobody did.”
Auzenne filed for divorce in 2017, but the case was dismissed, local media reported.
She filed for divorce again six months later and the couple agreed a settlement last week.
Friends said Auzenne was an outspoken anti-gun activist.
Last year, she posted a photo of herself with the captions #Enough and #EndGunViolence.
Just months earlier she told of her struggles with depression, anxiety, sleep apnea, arthritis and lupus, an incurable condition in which the immune system attacks healthy tissues and organs.
Her Facebook page was also filled with photos of her children, and posts revealed that her stepmother died in March.
The children's paternal grandfather, Murvin Auzenne Snr, said the family has been left devastated.
He told ABC 13: "They were kids you wanted to have around, they really were.
"They're amazing children in all kinds of fantastic ways."
He added: "The family has all rallied around my son, Murvin. Our focus is only on one thing: helping through this difficult time."
Stunned neighbour Annette Flores told Click 2 Houston: "I'm upset. Children? Really?
"Children are innocent... it's just, it's a waste, and it's just really bad.
"And it makes me angry that someone would take it out on children."
A coroner ruled the deaths a triple murder-suicide.
