
# Strictly's Mike Bushell thanks wife for support amid online abuse from fans

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:17:15+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/strictlys-mike-bushell-thanks-wife-20803382)

Strictly Come Dancing dance off regular Mike Bushell has thanked his wife for cheering him odd amid abuse from fans.
He's been targeted by trolls having survived two dance offs in a row.
Emily, Mike's wife, retweeted a message to the sports broadcaster, and shared a sweet message for her hubby ahead of his performance last night.
Emily wrote: "Can't wait for Mike and Katya's comeback dance!  I've got a feeling it might be his best. The support this week has been so uplifting. Thank you."
Mike, who's partnered with pro Katya Jones, came back with: "Aw thanks darlin. Another huge weekend ahead and thanks for all your amazing love and support x."
 
Mike's even received death threats - with pro partner Katya Jones now shunning Twitter and Instagram .
Speaking at the Daily Mirror Pride of Britain Awards, Mike described one particular threat: "It said that unless I withdraw from the competition now I'm a dead man.
"It was personal and I thought WTF. There are bigger things in the world to worry about.
"I get that people have their own favourite dancers but it's an entertainment show at the end of the day and to get a death threat is ridiculous.
"My wife saw it first and I went to see who had sent it, they had already removed the tweet. A death threat?! What?! On Strictly?!
"You rise above it but it's people being cowardly, isn't it? The show is meant to be happy, make people feel happy."
 
Katya told The Sun of her own decision to quit the sites: "I'm off social media; it's not real.
"For me, it's real what we're doing with our dancing and performance. There's no need for negatives. I just want to do my own thing."
Their not the only Strictly stars being trolled, as head judge Shirley Ballas has received similar messages after the controversial decisions to boot Dev Griffin and Catherine Tyldesley off the show.
