
# Elizabeth On The Allure Of Ruining Your Life, And Being ‘The Debutant Divorcée’

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:32:25+00:00**

Author: **Jared Richards**

Original: [Junkee](https://junkee.com/elizabeth-interview-wonderful-nature-album/226783)

“It’s very hard to be kind to yourself when your life is falling apart.”
It’s the first moment where the conversation has dipped during lunch with Elizabeth. She’s pausing to think of where to go next, more or less echoing the process behind The Wonderful World Of Nature, her first solo album.
We joke an alternate title could’ve been ‘The Debutant Divorcée’, a descriptor pulled from the album’s PR package. A lot has changed in the past year — her 2018 album with the now defunct band Totally Mild, Her, was filled with dream-pop domestic devotionals to her now-ex wife. But that’s not to say it was ever perfect.
Elizabeth describes Her as a curdled mixture of “love and entrapment”, something echoed in the cutting line on …Nature‘s ‘Meander’: “A band of gold…what a thing to hold me back”.
But she’s quick to say it wasn’t a one-way restriction: writing the album, Elizabeth didn’t want to paint herself as the wilted rose, even if that would’ve made things a little easier.
“It is a break-up album,” she says. “But it’s also an album about reflecting on what you’re bringing to the situation, and whether you’re the monster or whether the other person is a monster — and why you’re so monstrous together, really.”
“For me, [break-up albums] have blurred edges, and so do your feelings about whether you’re going to be with someone or not… But I would say as much as it’s about a break-up, it’s also about trying to figure out how to exist by myself outside of something — whether that’s a relationship, you know, or a multitude of other dynamics.”
Across …Nature, Elizabeth isn’t very kind to herself. Its eleven tracks are extravagant in emotion and sound, as Elizabeth’s devastating voice and lyrics (“How could you love me/so far above me”) cut through a dream-pop haze of twangy guitars and pining piano.
On The Wonderful World Of Nature, Elizabeth sifts through pain. Unsurprisingly, it’s a non-linear journey, where emotions bounce back and forth between contentment and deep pining, self-blame and self-acceptance. In her own words, it’s a messy album about a messy situation.
