
# We are not big in size but we have the Afghani power, claims Rashid Khan

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:41:16+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/we-are-not-big-in-size-but-we-have-the-afghani-power-claims-rashid-khan?utm_medium=rss)


        Afghanistan will be playing three ODIs and T20Is each including a Test against the West Indies in Lucknow and are looking to gain some moment by toppling the giants ahead of the T20 World Cup. Afghan skipper Rashid Khan has shared that they will be playing smart cricket on the big grounds.
      
Afghanistan look confident ahead of their clash against the Windies in Lucknow. The Afghans will be playing three ODIs and T20Is each before finishing off with the one-off Test against the Carribean lads. The Asian nation have managed to win three of their six one-dayers against the Windies, while they have managed to the Carribean side only once in four occasions in T20Is.
Rashid Khan, the Afghanistan skipper, has informed that they will be playing smart cricket against the Windies to counter the upper hand they have when it comes to their physicalities. Rashid acknowledged the fact that even their batsmen can hit the long ball but suggested to avoid the big shots.
"We are not big in size but we hit big sixes. We have the Afghani power and this boundary will also be small for us. But we will have to play smart cricket and not focus much on big shots. Because on such big ground, you have to play smart cricket," said Khan in the press conference.
"We will not focus on how they are against the spin; we will play our best cricket and deliver our best bowling performance."
Afghanistan's head coach Lance Klusener informed that every series from now on is important for them as they are looking to get their combinations right before the T20 World Cup Down Under.
"Any series is important from here on as the Asia Cup and the World Cup are coming. Any series will bring us closer to finding the team that is going to take us in those big tournaments. So, the sooner we find those combinations, the better it is," said Klusener.
The series will kick start from November 6 at the Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium in Lucknow.
