
# Black Friday 2019: The Best Deals So Far From Amazon And Walmart

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/11/06/walmart-black-friday-2019-amazon-airpods-iphone-galaxy-xbox-airpods-pro-tv-deals/)

This story was written in collaboration with Forbes Finds. Forbes Finds covers products we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes and the author may receive a small share of that sale.Amazon Black Friday sales are already clashing head-on with early Walmart deals and some of the best deals now will beat later Black Friday doorbusters. Here’s my guide to the deals you need to be looking at right now. 
Note: you can find my Black Friday 2019 store-by-store guides to the best live sales at Best Buy (here), Costco (here), Kohl’s (here) and Target (here). I have also done roundups of the best live Apple deals and biggest Samsung savings.

        Target Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
The big news is both stores are already discounting headline brands that don’t usually go on sale until Black Friday itself. In fact, some of these deals may run out of stock before Black Friday so be ready to buy now. 

        Amazon, Walmart Black Friday Best Smartphone Deals
      

        Amazon, Walmart Black Friday Best Tablet Deals
      

        Amazon, Walmart Black Friday Best Console Deals
      

        Amazon, Walmart Black Friday Best Smartwatch Deals
      

        Amazon, Walmart Black Friday Best Headphone Deals
      

        Amazon, Walmart Black Friday Best Laptop Deals
      

        Amazon, Walmart Black Friday Best TV Deals
      

        Apple Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
While I’d suggest waiting for the Black Friday smartphone deals to drop (particularly Target’s massive Galaxy savings), there are some superb deals here, including the only AirPods Pro discount you’re likely to see this year and some massive TV deals which will match anything you see on Black Friday itself. 
To track my daily Black Friday guides, leaks and recommendations hit the Follow button on my author page. 
___

        More of my Black Friday Guides on Forbes
      
