
# Barcelona identify in-demand superstar as Luis Suarez’s replacement

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:06:08+00:00**

Author: **Nishant Narayanan**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/07/champions-league-superstar-located-as-luis-suarezs-replacement/)

Erling Haaland has recently made a name for himself in European football with his dominant performance with RB Salzburg, especially in their Champions League campaign, having scored seven goals in four CL matches.
The Norwegian international has also displayed a remarkable form for his club’s domestic fixtures, with the youngster scoring 12 goals in 11 appearances as well as 4 assists. The striker also managed to score 4 goals in 2 outings in the Austrian Cup competition.
Haaland is on an incredible form, having netted 23 times in 17 appearances across all competitions for Salzburg this season, stats that match the very top of the  European player’s list.
The summer transfer window will see the Salzburg striker negotiate a move away from the Austrian club as interested European giants lineup to land the teenager. Manchester United, Juventus and Bayern Munich, along with Spanish giants Barcelona and Real Madrid are all rightfully interested in the talented striker.
Haaland is currently valued at 30 million euros, according to Transfermarkt. A figure which is far less than the estimated 100 million euros Salzburg will surely look to claim for the highly in-demand youngster.
Marca reports that Barcelona are in search of a replacement for the aging Luis Suarez, with many claiming that Inter Milan’s Lautaro Martinez is favorite to land the move to Camp Nou.The Uruguayan recently got injured due to calf issues and at 33-years of age has only scored 8 in 12 appearances for Blaugrana, making it evident that he is only a shadow of his former self.
Will Erling Haaland solve the Blaugrana’s scoring problems?
