
# Still In Touch With Timothy 'RDP' Nkosi part 1

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:44:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/still-in-touch/timothy-rdp-nkosi-part-1-still-in-touch-with/665820)

Soccer Laduma’s ‘In Touch’ & ‘Still In Touch’ feature has been a fan favourite for almost two decades in Soccer Laduma’s weekly newspaper. 
Millions of readers turn to it first each week to read the crazy stories that Mzansi’s former players tell and to see current soccer stars dish the dirt on their teammates and coaches. 
Over the years, together with our readers, we have laughed uncontrollably and gasped with disbelief at stories that have never been told before!
Due to the incredible success and reading pleasure over the years and the timeless nature of this incredible content, Soccer Laduma has dug through the archives to bring back to life some of the gems you may have missed, or simply want to re-read and share with your friends. 
This week, we look back to 16 December 2009 in issue number 651, where Timothy ‘RDP’ Nkosi goes back in time, talking about some of the naughty things they used to get up to off the field as players. There’s also a hilarious story about him being found in a compromising position by his former club boss!

        
          Popularly known as RDP, Timothy Nkosi played for several teams in the PSL. He started out with Witbank Aces in 1990 shortly after finishing matric. He said playing football didn’t give him enough time to spend with his family and that’s the main reason he decided to quit the game he so loved.
        
      

        RDP, tell us some funny stories.
      
Listen, when I was at Swallows, one time we were playing in Cape Town against Santos or Ajax Cape Town, I can’t remember which. We played at night and had to leave for Jo’burg the next day. Me and Magents (Edward Motale) were the only two players in the team with driver’s licences, so I was given the one club kombi to drive and Magents drove the other. Players who enjoyed Magents’ company would get in his kombi, while I also had my crew. Can you imagine today, the players driving the rest of the team around! I remember one time we were in Pietersburg and our coach Jacob Sakala was drunk. I was staying in the flat with Thabang Lebese, Magents and Thembinkosi Biyela. Sakala came by and found me chilling with Magents. He was carrying his bags and told us he was leaving the team. He said, “I’m leaving because Malombo Lichaba wants my job! I’ve got qualifications. I come from Germany!” The next day I saw him at training, sober as a judge, and I took him on about what he had said. He looked shocked, saying, “What are you telling me now? Don’t lie, RDP.” I remember he spoke to you, Lunga, about the time I wanted to stab Soul Mmethi over a girlfriend. Ha, ha, ha, I read that!

        Any more good stories?
      
One time Thabang Lebese had a party and he invited us to his place in Naturena. I was driving my own car. I phoned my girlfriend and asked her to come with, and she agreed. Anyway, we drove to Jozi and there were some Kaizer Chiefs, Orlando Pirates and Mamelodi Sundowns guys that were invited. It appears that Chillies (Thabang) had his eye on my girl. He had a long conversation with her and when I told her that I wanted us to go to my home in Pretoria, she chickened out. It was at midnight when Chillies and my chick disappeared. I was looking for her everywhere and Gerald Raphahlela told me, “You won’t get her. She’s in the room with Chillies and the door is locked.” I was angry and phoned Magents and told him, “Thabang thinks he’s smart, I’m going to finish him off. Chillies was staying with me in the flat back in
Pietersburg and I decided to leave the party and go to the flat and wait for him to appear. I was hungry for his blood. He never pitched for training the next day, ha, ha. He finally arrived in his BMW, and Magents and Biyela calmed me down. They told me, “You’ll lose your career because of this thing. You’ll kill him and go to prison and then you’ll be in the papers for all the wrong reasons.” I told Chillies, “I’ll kill you, mfana wami! You don’t know me!” You think I can bring a girl all the way from Pietersburg to Jo’burg just for you?” He apologised and said he’d never do it again! Can you believe it!

        Then there was that crazy night, bhut’omkhulu…
      
Ha, ha, you’re obviously talking about Pat Malabela, our boss at Dynamos. We had lost 3-1 to Santos at home on a Wednesday and we were going to play them again in Cape Town on Saturday. Pat then said he didn’t want to see the players roaming the streets or driving at night. I was living in a small town that had no life and the shops were far away. At around 6pm I went to buy food. There was a bash in Giyani and I was used to having a few drinks and a lady next to me after the game, so I decided to go there quickly. Sydney Moshikaro, Joel Seroba and Soul Mmethi were there. It was now around 8pm and I went inside to get a six pack of ciders. I was standing outside my car with Moshikaro when Pat appeared in his Mercedes. He stopped, got out, looked at us suspiciously and drove off. I then left, but when I arrived at my place, I decided to go back to the party…and Pat saw me again. This time he said, “RDP!” I said, “Sure, boss!” He said, “What did I say?” I responded, “I’m on my way home, boss.” I went back to my place again but it wasn’t long before I decided to return to the party. I went back and picked up some girls. As I was leaving with them, I realised I was low on petrol and went to the filling station. It was around 10pm and I met Pat there again! He had parked his car next to mine and saw three girls inside my car! I felt cold, Lunga! I said to myself, this is the end of my job. He just looked at me for a few minutes without saying a word. As I drove away, he followed me and only turned back when I was about to reach my place.

        Trouble, trouble, trouble…
      
I was the first at training the next day as I felt so guilty. Pat was second and, as the other players were coming in, he was busy screaming. I think he was talking to a journalist there and he shouted, “We brought the likes of Timothy Nkosi here to guide the youngsters, but they are busy going around at night with girls!” I was left out of the squad and made to apologise in front of the team. He also gave me a lecture about respecting myself and my wife!
 

        STILL IN TOUCH
      

        FUN FACTS:
      
Best player I’ve ever faced: Roger Feutmba & Doctor Khumalo
Best player I’ve played with: Alex Bapela
Biggest pay cheque: R10 000
Smallest pay cheque: R500
Former team that used the most muti: Moroka Swallows
Favourite current player: Teko Modise & Elias Pelembe
Current occupation: Primedia F2F marketing and salesman
Former teams: Witbank Aces, Pretoria City, Moroka Swallows, Bush Bucks, Real Rovers, Ria Stars, Dynamos, SuperSport United
