
# Lionel Messi pushes Barcelona to pay prime target’s release clause

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:31:55+00:00**

Author: **Atharva Khadilkar**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/05/lionel-messi-pushes-barcelona-pay-prime-targets-release-clause/)

Ernesto Valverde attracted a greater amount of scrutiny over himself after a dismal performance versus Levante and now Barcelona have three league defeats to their name in just eleven matches. The Catalans can count themselves to be lucky that they are not low in the table because the likes of Atletico Madrid and Real Madrid have underperformed as well.
Lionel Messi has been putting the club under pressure to fire Ernesto Valverde since a while it seems and that is certainly something that the fans on the outset support. Whether the senior players at the club are in favour of Messi’s appeals to the board is not known, but it is usually the Argentina international that has a big say in things.
In Barcelona’s away visit to Slavia Prague, Messi was seen giving a cryptic look to his boss after the Czech side scored against them and that had many fans raising questions over if indeed there was something fishy between the duo. Diario GOL does second that stating about Messi asking the Blaugrana to pay Ronald Koeman’s release clause.
Ronald Koeman is currently coaching the Netherlands’ national team and has done an incredible job with his nation. The former Everton boss has made the Dutch side a European force once again after they missed out on the Euro 2016 and FIFA World Cup 2018. In a turn of events, the Oranje are one of the favourites for next year’s European Championship.
Koeman has revealed that he has a clause in his deal with the Netherlands’ Footballing Association that would allow him to walk away to Barcelona after the Euro 2020 provided the Catalans pay a release clause. That amount is not known yet but it is certain to be a reasonable figure for a manager who is definitely an upgrade from Valverde.
Barcelona have reportedly given their current boss time until December 18’s clash against Real Madrid to rescue his job. Prior to that, the Blaugrana will play against tough opponents like Atletico in La Liga and Dortmund as well as Inter in the Champions League, so whether Valverde is in the dugout for the Clasico remains to be seen.
Do you think Barca will keep Ernesto Valverde at the helm until the end of this season?
