
# Georgia Man Directs Racial Slurs at 2 Male Customers In Waffle House, Engages in a Fight and Ends Up Shot Dead

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:53:27+00:00**

Author: **Lauren Floyd**

Original: [Atlanta Black Star](https://atlantablackstar.com/2019/11/05/georgia-man-directs-racial-slurs-at-2-male-customers-in-waffle-house-engages-in-a-fight-and-ends-up-shot-dead/)

An “irate” Georgia man reportedly used a racial slur during a fight with two men at a Waffle House and ended up shot dead on Halloween.
The Waffle House on Ga. 36 in Butts County is about 50 miles southeast of Atlanta.
Nicholas Phinazee Bryan, 27, was directing racial slurs at Robert Lewis Henderson Jr., 36, and Antonio DeMarty Evans, 39, when Waffle House staff members asked him to leave, according to a Georgia Bureau of Investigation news release.
Instead of leaving, Bryan got into “a physical altercation” with Evans, and Henderson fired one round at Bryan, hitting him, the GBI said.
The incident led to three separate calls within minutes of each other just before 11 p.m. about “disturbances” at the restaurant, according to the GBI.
The first call was about an “irate customer,” the second about a fight and the third about shots fired, the GBI said.
When deputies arrived at the restaurant, they found Bryan with a gunshot wound, authorities said.
Bryan was taken to the Monroe County Hospital about 15 miles away in Forsyth, and he died at about 3 a.m. Friday, the GBI said.
The agency is investigating the shooting at the request of the Butts County Sheriff’s Office. GBI has not confirmed whether the two men had been arrested or charged.
Bryan was taken to the GBI Crime Lab, where an autopsy will be performed.
