
# Government proposes an extra public holiday in June - VnExpress International

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:30:00+00:00**

Author: **VnExpress**

Original: [VnExpress International – Latest news, business, travel and analysis from Vietnam](https://e.vnexpress.net/news/news/government-proposes-an-extra-public-holiday-in-june-4008867.html)

The suggestion, part of draft amendments to the Labor Code, was submitted to the National Assembly (NA) Standing Committee Wednesday by the Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs.
The Family Day was among several extra public holidays proposed to previous NA sessions. Other suggestions included July 27, the Vietnamese War Invalids and Martyrs' Day, and September 5, the first day of the school year.
However, the July 27 suggestion was rejected by NA delegates on the grounds that it would be a painful reminder of loved ones for many families.
The Vietnam General Confederation of Labor had previously suggested three additional public holidays in Vietnam – June 28 and two more days around New Year's Day.
Amendments to the Labor Code are expected to be passed at a year-end session of the parliament.
Vietnamese people now enjoy holidays for the New Year, the commemoration day of the Hung Kings on the 10th day of the third lunar month, National Reunification Day on April 30, Labor Day on May 1, the Independence Day on September 2, and the Tet or Lunar New Year holiday, which normally lasts seven to nine days and includes one or two weekends. This makes for a total of 10 days a year, excluding the Tet weekends.
In comparison, Cambodia enjoys a total of 28 public holidays, Brunei, 15, Indonesia, 16, and China, 21.
