
# Tyler Perry Studios To Host the 2019 Miss Universe Pageant

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:00:36+00:00**

Author: **Daryl Nelson**

Original: [Atlanta Black Star](https://atlantablackstar.com/2019/11/04/tyler-perry-studios-to-host-the-2019-miss-universe-pageant/)

You just don’t build a brand new 330 acre film studio without hosting all kinds of shows and projects.
That’s something that Tyler Perry knows, because the 2019 Miss Universe pageant will be shot at his new Tyler Perry Studios that officially opened last month.
Steve Harvey will host the pageant for the fifth time in a row, and it’ll air live on Sunday, Dec. 8, at 7:00 p.m. EST. on Fox. It’ll also be simulcast live in Spanish on the cable network Telemundo.
And the three-hour show will end with the reigning Miss Universe, Catriona Gray of the Philippines, handing the crown to the new winner.
As for Perry, last month was clearly one for the books as far as his career is concerned. Because on Oct. 1 he received his own star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, where he was praised by Idris Elba, Kerry Washington and Crystal Fox, who’ve all worked with him.
And on Oct. 5, the director welcomed a huge array of stars to celebrate the opening of his studio, including people like Oprah Winfrey, Jay-Z and Beyoncé, as well as Viola Davis.
The studio itself has 12 sound stages, each named after important black entertainers. Even Spike Lee, who Perry had a public spat with, has a sound stage named after him.
Perry also recently launched his new shows on BET, which are part of the huge deal he signed with Viacom in 2017.
One of them is “Sistas” that follows the story of four black female friends who find closeness through being single, while “The Oval” follows the lives of the First Couple in The White House.
Both shows premiered on Oct. 23, and Perry is also expected to create a Holiday special for BET, as well as two comedy series.
