
# Dickinson, See, and For All Mankind Renewed by Apple TV+

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:00:01+00:00**

Author: **Josef Adalian**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/2019/11/dickinson-see-for-all-mankind-renewed.html)

It’s not surprising, but it’s now official: Apple TV+ has ordered second seasons of each of the shows that debuted last Friday as part of its launch day slate, a spokesperson for the service said Thursday. The Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon–led The Morning Show was picked up to series with a two-season commitment, while kid-targeted fare such as Ghostwriter and Snoopy in Space is usually produced in bulk with multiple seasons green-lit in advance. But the streamer had heretofore not said anything about the futures of See, Dickinson, and For All Mankind (though trade reports had indicated the series were safe bets to return).
As for how many folks have watched various shows, Apple is taking a page from Netflix, Hulu, and other digital platforms and not offering any official comment or specific numbers. But sources close to Apple say company execs are more than satisfied with what they’re seeing. “Millions of people found it and millions of people signed up,” one source said, adding that the average time consumers spent with the service was “well over an hour” during launch weekend. Even more encouraging to Apple execs: Viewers who made it through the first episode of the new shows are tending to stick around. “The vast majority of people went on to episodes two and three,” the source said. “They watched all three episodes.” And while our source close to Apple wasn’t willing to share exactly how many people watched specific shows, he did say several series have “a core audience in the millions” so far. While all episodes of Dickinson season one have been posted, Apple TV+ will roll out new episodes of its other adult-targeted shows every Friday.
