
# Right-Wing AfD Member Told to Quit as Bundestag Panel Chair Over Allusion to Judas Betrayal of Jesus

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:45:00+00:00**

Author: **by Oleg Burunov**

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/europe/201911031077213133-alternative-for-germany-party-member-accusations/)


        Last month, Stephan Brandner had to apologise in the German parliament after he retweeted a “racist post” in the wake of an extremist shooting attack on Halle's synagogue that claimed the lives of two people.
      
Stephan Brandner, a member of Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, faces call to resign as chairman of the parliament’s legal committee after he was accused of using irrelevant allusions in a tweet related to German rock star Udo Lindenberg.
Luczak was echoed by Volker Ullrich, interior affairs spokesman for Bavaria's Christian Social Union (CSU), who told the German newspaper Handelsblatt that Brandner's attitude was "patently undignified” and “outrageous” .
Social Democrat (SPD) legal affairs spokesman Johannes Fechner said that his party would like Brandner to step down via the Bundestag's Standing Orders Committee despite the fact that procedures for such a move have yet to be clarified.
Marco Buschmann, of the opposition Free Democratic Party (FDP) blamed Brandner for “gambling” with anti-Semitic prejudices, adding,” that is simply disgusting and not worthy of a committee chairman of the German Bundestag”.
The MPs’ criticism comes after Brandner tweeted on Thursday that awarding Lindenberg with Germany's prestigious Federal Order of Merit (Bundesverdienstkreuz) is tantamount to a "Judaslohn" for the rock star's outspoken stand "against us [the AfD]."
Germans use the word "Judaslohn" to refer to a traitor's reward like one paid to Judas for his betrayal of Jesus of Nazareth.
The non-governmental research and information centre anti-Semitism Berlin (Rias) registered 1,083 anti-Semitic incidents in Berlin last year, which is 14 percent more than the previous year.
At the same time, Rias project manager Benjamin Steinitz noted that anti-Semitism is taking “threatening forms” and becoming blatant. The number of anti-Semitic attacks increased from 18 to 46 and the number of threats increased from 26 to 46.
