
# Official Xiaomi Mi Note 10 Wallpapers Are Now Available To Download

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:58:37+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/official-xiaomi-mi-note-10-wallpapers-are-now-available-to-download.html)

Xiaomi has announced the Mi Note 10 just yesterday, and official wallpapers from the device are now available. These are the same wallpapers that come with the Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro, by the way.
Why is that the case? Well, these two phones are basically the same, but carry different brandings. The Mi CC9 Pro is essentially the Mi Note 10 variant for the Chinese market. The Mi Note 10 is a global variant, for all markets other than China.
There are 16 wallpapers available as part of this pack. You can check out all of those wallpapers in the gallery down below. Do note that the wallpapers that are included in the gallery have been compressed.
Advertisement
If you'd like to download these wallpapers in full resolution, you can do so via the link below this article. They are limited to a fullHD+ resolution (2340 x 1080), though, as that is the resolution of the Mi Note 10's display.
The vast majority of these wallpapers are abstract wallpapers. If that is your thing, chances are you'll find something you'll like here. If not, there are several landscape wallpapers as well, but that is pretty much it.
The Xiaomi Mi Note 10 is a mid-range smartphone, in case you were wondering. It is also the very first smartphone to come with a 108-megapixel camera.
Advertisement
This phone includes five cameras on the back, and that 108-megapixel camera is its main sensor. The phone also includes two telephoto cameras, an ultra-wide one, and one for macro photography.
The device is fueled by the Snapdragon 730G 64-bit octa-core processor. It also comes with 6GB / 8GB of RAM and 128GB / 256GB of internal storage.
A 5,260mAh battery is included in this phone as well, and it supports 30W fast wired charging. Wireless charging is not supported, in case you were wondering.
Advertisement
The device does include a 3.5mm audio jack, though, and an IR blaster. Android 9 Pie comes pre-installed on the device, along with Xiaomi's MIUI 11 skin.
Two SIM cards are also available on this phone, and the same goes for an in-display fingerprint scanner. Xiaomi included an optical in-display fingerprint scanner here, by the way.
The device actually starts at €549 in Europe, which may not be the best price tag for it. This is dangerously close to the OnePlus 7T's price tag, and this is 'just' a mid-range phone, mainly due to its processor. It will be interesting to see how well will the Note 10 sell, that's for sure.
Advertisement

        Download Xiaomi Mi Note 10 wallpapers
      
