
# UFC 244: Masvidal Vs. Diaz Odds, Predictions

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **ESPN＋ | Paid Program**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/espn/2019/11/02/ufc-244-masvidal-vs-diaz-odds-predictions/)


        This post was created in partnership with ESPN+. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
      
UFC 244 is shaping up to be one of the more interesting — and contentious — fighting nights of the year when it kicks off from Madison Square Garden on Saturday, November 2. The main card begins at 10 p.m., but the early prelims begin at 6:30 p.m. ET on ESPN+pay-per-view. The $79.98 pay-per-view fight includes a one-year subscription to ESPN+. 
At the top of the card sits welterweights Jorge Masvidal and Nate Diaz. Middleweights Kelvin Gastelum and Darren Till will face off in the co-main event of the evening. Before that, there promises to be plenty of action with welterweights, heavyweights, and more all looking to take down their opponents.

        Main Card
      

        Main Event: Jorge Masvidal vs. Nate Diaz
      

        Latest Odds: Masvidal (-165) | Diaz (+135)
      
As the Vegas odds clearly show, the Masvidal-Diaz fight is shaping up to be a close one. Masvidal is a favorite here, due in large part to his strong showing in his last two bouts, but Diaz is dangerous, as he clearly showed in his 2016 upset against Conor McGregor. Look for this one to be a winner.

        Co-Main Event: Kelvin Gastelum vs. Darren Till
      

        Latest Odds: Gastelum (-200) | Till (+170)
      
It’s hard to pick Darren Till in this fight. He was a welterweight for a time, but he was notably bigger than his competitors and many said he’d be better fighting at 185 pounds. He’s doing that in this fight, but he’s coming off two straight losses. Gastelum is a tough first fight at middleweight will likely take command early on in the fight.

        Welterweight: Stephen Thompson vs. Vicente Luque
      

        Latest Odds: Thompson (-130) | Luque (+100)
      
The Thompson-Luque fight is a toss-up for many reasons. Both fighters have been strong in recent match-ups and they have outstanding striking abilities that could dramatically change the outcome in any given second. But Thompson is one of the welterweight division’s best strikers. And it’s hard to bet against him — especially as the fight goes on.

        Heavyweight: Derrick Lewis vs. Blagoy Ivanov
      

        Latest Odds: Lewis (+100) | Ivanov (-125)
      
Interestingly, Derrick Lewis is going into this fight against Blagoy Ivanov a slight underdog. But he could ultimately be the one with his hand held high at the end of the fight. Sure, he’s coming off two losses and didn’t look great against Daniel Cormier, but he’s still dangerous and far more familiar with the experience of fighting in a UFC octagon. Ivanov has a real shot at winning, but Lewis is the better choice here.

        Lightweight: Kevin Lee vs. Gregor Gillespie
      

        Latest Odds: Lee (+145) | Gillespie (-175)
      
It’s hard to bet against Vegas on the Lee-Gillespie fight. Granted, Lee was once upon a time a highly respected fighter, especially after he bet Edson Barboza, but tough losses to Tony Ferguson and Leonardo Santos have folks wondering if he’s past his peak. And considering Gillespie is undefeated with plenty of upside, Saturday night might be a tough one for Kevin Lee.

        Preliminary Card
      

        Light Heavyweight: Corey Anderson vs. Johnny Walker
      

        Latest Odds: Anderson (+140) | Walker (-179)
      

        Featherweight: Shane Burgos vs. Makwan Amirkhani
      

        Latest Odds: Burgos (-250) | Amirkhani (+200)
      

        Middleweight: Brad Tavares vs. Edmen Shahbazyan
      

        Latest Odds: Tavares (+105) | Shahbazyan (-130)
      

        Heavyweight: Andrei Arlovski vs. Jairzinho Rozenstruik
      

        Latest Odds: Arlovski (+125) | Rozenstruik (-155)
      

        Early Prelims
      

        Women Flyweight: Katlyn Chookagian vs. Jennifer Maia
      

        Latest Odds: Chookagian (-160) | Maia (+130)
      

        Welterweight: Lyman Good vs. Chance Rencountre
      

        Latest Odds: Good (-130) | Rencountre (+100)
      

        Featherweight: Julio Arce vs. Hakeem Dawodu
      

        Latest Odds: Arce (+105) | Dawodu (-135)
      
