
# Ole Gunnar Solskjaer issues Man City plea to Paul Pogba

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:10:11+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/ole-gunnar-solskjaer-issues-man-20807883)

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer wants Paul Pogba back in time for for next month’s derby against Manchester City .
Pogba has missed the last seven games due to an ankle problem he sustained in September.
His foot is currently in plaster after a recent operation, stalling his rehabilitation process.
Manchester United travel to the Etihad Stadium on December 7 to face the Pep Guardiola’s Premier League champions.
And, according to the Daily Star , Solskjaer has told with Pogba to focus all of his efforts on returning from injury for the match.
Solskjaer has publicly written off the 26-year-old until next month.
“I don’t think we’ll see him before December. He’ll be out for a while,” he said.
“He needs time to fully recover so I don’t think he will be back before maybe Sheffield United after the international break but probably December before you can see him.
“I’m not a doctor but there is an injury there that needs healing. There’s no use talking about who’s not going to be here for a long time because he’s not going to come on the pitch and help us."
Despite the team’s problems on the pitch, Pogba is determined not to rush his return from injury.
"I will still be under plaster for ten days," he said. "After, I still have two weeks of rehabilitation.
"It's not easy to see my teammates go to training or on the field, but I have to take the time to come back."
Pogba is likely to miss another eight matches, starting with Thursday's Europa League home clash against Partizan Belgrade.
United’s mini-revival came crashing to an end on Saturday as ex-Red Devils forward Josh King hit Bournemouth ’s winner at the Vitality Stadium.
Solskjaer's side are currently 10th in the Premier League table, with 13 points from 11 games.
