
# BREAKING: Alfa Romeo retain Giovinazzi for 2020 F1 season

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:40:00+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Tyrrell**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49454/breaking-alfa-romeo-retain-giovinazzi.html)


        Alfa Romeo have confirmed that Antonio Giovinazzi will continue to race for them in 2020. The Italian has done enough to keep his place for next season after scoring four points in 2019.
      
Having raced twice for Sauber in 2017, Alfa Romeo took the Italian on for this season. The Italian has had mixed reviews during his first full season in Formula 1 only achieving four points for Alfa Romeo, considerably less than his teammate, Kimi Raikkonen. 
The Italian's best result came in the form of a P9 finish at his home Grand Prix, with two single point scores in Austria and Singapore.
Alfa Romeo have now confirmed that Giovinazzi's stay in F1 will extend into 2020 at least.
A statement read: "Alfa Romeo Racing will extend its relationship with Antonio Giovinazzi into the 2020 Formula One World Championship. The Italian driver, 25, will compete in his second full season with the team that gave him his debut in the sport in 2017."
Giovinazzi himself added: “I am very happy to be staying with the team for 2020. I am grateful for the incredible level of support I received in my first full season in Formula One: everyone in the team has stuck by my side since I joined and I am really looking forward to continuing our journey together.

        "We learned a lot this year and I am confident we can make a big step forward next season. I won’t be a rookie anymore so there won’t be any excuses for me: I want to be competitive right from the start of the championship and repay the confidence the team has shown in me.”
      
