
# Sacked Benni receives message from Arsenal legend

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:21:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/sacked-benni-receives-message-from-arsenal-legend-20191104)

Cape Town - Arsenal legend Ian Wright sent Benni McCarthy words of encouragement after Cape Town City sacked the former Bafana Bafana striker as head coach.
The Citizens have endured a tough start to the season as they have only won once in nine matches to sit 13th in the league standings.
McCarthy's last match in charge ended in a 1-0 loss to Maritzburg United at home on 25 October.
They were also knocked out in the first round of the MTN8 and lost to Kaizer Chiefs in the Telkom Knockout at the first hurdle.
The former Bafana Bafana striker was at the helm for two and a half years and won the MTN8 trophy last season.
City said in statement that assistant coach Vasili Manousakis will take charge of the side until a permanent replacement is found.
In Twitter post McCarthy shared his views on his sacking saying: "I'm disappointed to end my time at the club but I would like to nevertheless thank the club & particularly the players,the fans and the community of Cape Town for their support and commitment over the last two years. I'm proud of my time at the club and wish them all the best." 
In which Wright responded with: "Bigger things ahead my friend" 
City are back in action on Wednesday as they welcome Polokwane City to Cape Town Stadium.
Kick-off is at 19:30.
