
# RuPaul's Drag Race Werq: The World Tour 2020 will come to Birmingham – here’s how to get tickets

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Dickinson, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/scott-dickinson/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/whats-on-news/rupauls-drag-race-werq-world-17183710)

Following the series’ success in both the US and UK, RuPaul’s band of loyal queens are set to take on the wider world in a brand new tour for 2020.
The tour has already achieved global acclaim in prior years, bringing glamour to every corner of the world for a drag spectacular.
It even stopped at Houston in 2017 a few months after Hurricane Harvey leaving mass donations in their wake.
Now it's coming to Arena Birmingham on Tuesday 12 May 2020, and you can get your tickets from The Ticket Factory here
The 2020 tour dates in the UK come fresh off the back of the finale of Rupaul’s Drag Race UK, a spin off of the seven-time Emmy winning US format for audiences across the pond.
With the show having achieved rave reviews nationwide, praising its hilarious tone and jaw dropping runway walks, a slew of UK tour dates was inevitable and welcomed with open arms.
The show has pulled in a range of international celebrities as judges including Geri Horner, Jade Thirwall, Andrew Garfield, Cheryl, Graham Norton and Alan Carr.
Nevertheless, the show prides itself on the production of home grown talent. West Bromwich born contestant, Baga Chipz, has already booked a smattering of high profile gigs including Celebrity First Dates.
But now you can see your favourite divas from the shows in an extravaganza fuelled on fabulous!
Tickets go on general sale for Ruppaul’s Drag Race Werq: The World Tour on Friday 8th November 2019
They can be purchased on The Ticket Factory’s official bookings page here.
But if you can’t wait until next year to get your daily dose of drag, remember you can stream all episodes of Rupaul’s Drag Race UK on BBC iplayer now!
