
# Carol Vorderman reveals her highlights from this year's Pride of Britain Awards

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:47:35+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/carol-vorderman-reveals-highlights-years-20812615)

Tomorrow's Pride of Britain Awards show on ITV is packed with some of the most memorable TV moments of the year.
From superstar guests and jaw-dropping surprises to heartwarming reunions and awe-inspiring youngsters, you won’t want to miss a minute.
Here host Carol Vorderman picks some of the incredible highlights of this year's Daily Mirror Pride of Britain Awards, in ­partnership with TSB.
Former gang member Hezron Brown turned his life around and helps steer other young people away from gangs and knife crime.
Hezron thought he was travelling to Scotland for an interview about his work, but was stunned when Prince Charles walked in and told him he’d won the Prince’s Trust Young Achiever award.
 
Little Jaydee-Lee Dummett had a string of surprises on a day trip to London.
First the schoolgirl heard Amanda Holden and Jamie Theakston talking about her on their Heart Breakfast Show, then she saw her face on a billboard in Leicester Square.
The hilarious finale was Ant and Dec emerging from behind newspapers with Child of Courage winner Jaydee-Lee as the front-page story.
 
One of the most heartwarming moments of the show comes when Outstanding Bravery winner Daniel Nicholson, above right, is reunited with Jack Moore and Billie Manley.
They were two of the people he and Joel Snarr saved from burning plane wreckage after it crashed on the A40 in Abergavenny.
 
Emeli Sande provides a fitting climax with a performance of her soaring ballad Sparrow.
As the pop sensation sings, she is joined on stage by all the winners for a final salute from the audience.
 
Makaton founder Margaret Walker is blown away before receiving her Special Recognition award from Strictly judges Craig Revel Horwood, above, Motsi Mabuse and Shirley Ballas, when the audience signs to her in Makaton: “Thank you for helping to give so many people a voice.”
TV host Ben Shephard had secretly coached the audience on what to do while Margaret was out of the room.
 
Dante Marvin was invited to the set of Coronation Street to take part in a photoshoot to launch a new mascot for Variety, the charity he’s an ambassador for.
But hidden under the huge costume was his Corrie idol, Jack P Shepherd, who plays David Platt on the soap.
After finding out he’d won a Child of Courage award, Dante was in fits of laughter and couldn’t wait to quiz Jack about the Corrie Christmas special.
 
Good Morning Britain Young Fundraiser – and Avengers superfan – Aaron Hunter is thrilled when Iron Man himself, actor Robert Downey Jr, appears on screen to ask guests to support Aaron’s fundraising efforts.
Aaron has raised more than £300,000 to start research into Rohhad, the rare disease he suffers from. He is aiming for another £300,000 so the vital work can continue.
Viewers moved by his emotional story tonight will be able to donate online at rohhadassociation.com.

        The Daily Mirror Pride of Britain Awards, in partnership with TSB, will be broadcast on ITV on November 5 at 8pm
      
