
# Rose Seeks Turkish Delight Ahead Of Olympic Marathon

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Cooper**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/matthewjcooper/2019/11/07/rose-seeks-turkish-delight-ahead-of-olympic-marathon/)

As he winds down the 2019 season Justin Rose is already looking ahead to next year, aware that golf’s increasingly crowded peak season will be yet more unrelenting in an Olympic year.Prior to this week’s Turkish Airlines Open at the Montgomerie Maxx Royal in Belek, the Englishman talked with some passion about the inspirational gymnasts he watched three years ago in Rio, but it is entirely possible that he will be needing to seek motivation from the example of Pheidippides, the soldier whose exhausting journey from the battlefield to Athens in 490BC triggered the creation of the marathon.
Earlier this year the 39-year-old was critical of golf’s newly concentrated calendar, but in 2020 the cramped nature will further test him.
In 24 weeks from mid-March the Europe’s elite golfers will compete for four major championships, three FedEx Cup play-offs, two Rolex Series events, two World Golf Championships, one Olympics and one PLAYERS Championship.
After a fortnight off they’ll then add the BMW PGA Championship and the Ryder Cup.
The man who emerges from that itinerary with more than a couple of gongs will be entitled to feel more Iron- than mere marathon-man and Rose is mindful that his plan to cope with the new programme fell short of the mark this year.
“My season's been slightly disappointing for the most part,” he admitted. “I've struggled with the rhythm of the schedule and been trying to fix my game on the road.
“At the same time, I've won this year, so you can never really turn your nose up at that and if I was to win this week, a multiple-win season is certainly never a bad year.
“But I took all of February off, trying to be fresh for the major championship season. Next year, I won't do that, because it ruined my momentum. Instead I’ll try to roll my way through the year, just do little and often.”
He’s aware of a new reality. The old notion of peaking and troughing, or at least aiming to do so, is suddenly out of date whilst, on the other hand, the notion of maintaining focus for three months is plainly unrealistic. Something, or some things, will have to give.
“Next year might be the year where you can't be all things to all people,” he said. “To try and achieve everything on every tour next year could be a tricky proposition.”
And whilst it sounds cock-eyed, the gold medal winner is actually keen to add a date his crowded diary.
“I want to be there for the Olympic Opening Ceremony. I'd encourage anybody to attend. One of the highlights for me was walking out with Team GB.”
His enthusiasm to repeat the experience is no mere desire to party or wave to the excited crowds; he is clear that proximity to other athletes positively affected his own performance.
“If I had treated the Olympics as another tournament I don’t know what would have happened,” he said. “The emotion and the connection I had with Team GB was why I had the energy to play some of my best golf.”
A visit to the gymnastics, a sport his wife Kate once performed in, proved especially beneficial.
“I could not believe the chaos that they perform in and around,” he said, still clearly in awe. “The noise, the announcements, the movement of the other disciplines, trainers literally walking around the board while someone is running at the vault.
“And this is the conclusion of four years of blood, sweat and tears. They have to perform and execute their moves in chaos and I thought, ‘Golfers are soft.’ Like the marshal just takes one step in the wrong direction and we’re (moaning).”
Within days his observation was bearing fruit.
“The golf crowd there were not a normal golf crowd. There were a lot of cameras, a lot of noise, a lot of movement. But my pre-shot routine was clear. It was like I was a gymnast running at the vault. Once I started there was nothing going to stop me and I was going to play through anything that happened.”
It’s a mental image that he might well reignite as the revellers are singing Auld Lang Syne come midnight on the 31st December because 2020 will be a non-stop cavalcade of high pressure golf and the golfer who can plot an undistracted path through the mayhem might be the most dangerous of them all.
