
# Black September's face of terror before slaughter of innocent Olympic athletes

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:49:40+00:00**

Author: **Jane Lavender, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/black-septembers-face-terror-before-20765259)

It should have been a celebration of human achievement, a glorious coming together of athletes and sports men and women.
The Munich Olympic Games in 1972 were designed to show a new Germany, relaxed, joyful and open to the world.
In the words of West Germany's president at the time, Gustav Heinemann the Games would be "to overcome hatred and pave the way for reconciliation".
It had been hoped it would erase the memory of the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin, organised by Hitler.
Instead in turned into a blood bath after one of the infamous terror attacks in history.
 
One photo of a balaclava-clad terrorist became the face of the horror to follow, examined in History's Photos That Changed The World.
For almost two weeks the Games passed peacefully.
Police officers and security, deliberately dressed in light blue to promote the party atmosphere, were unaware of a deadly plot at the heart of the Games.
Broadcaster Barry Davies, who was there to cover the Olympics, said: "Everyone who was there just wanted to help, it was a lovely atmosphere."
But at 4.30am on September 5, the peace of the Olympics was shattered when eight members of the Black September faction of the Palestine Liberation Organisation, scaled a fence and made their way into the athletes' village.
 
Wearing tracksuits, they were carrying bags loaded with assault rifles, pistols and grenades.
Using stolen keys, they broke into two apartments being used by the Israeli team .
Heroically, wrestling referee Yossef Gutfreund, heard the break-in and threw his weight against the door, allowing his room-mate to flee.
Wrestling coach, Moshe Weinberg, tried to fight the intruders but was shot through the cheek and then dragged through the apartment.
He tried to attack the gunmen, allowing one of his wrestlers the chance to escape, but was then shot dead.
 
Yossef Romano, a weight lifter, also attacked and hurt one of the terrorists but was shot and killed.
The gunmen now had nine hostages and started to make their demands.
They wanted to release of 234 people, jailed in Israel, and to show their deadly intentions, hurled Weinberg's body out of the front door of the apartment.
Israel instantly insisted it would never negotiate with terrorists but the German authorities entered into talks with the gunmen.
Professor Kay Schuler said: "They were offered political asylum and a lot of money but the German government misread the intentions of the Palestinians.
 
"These were young men who saw themselvesas soldiers and they were willing to die for their cause."
The eyes of the media, which had previously been trained on the Olympic Games, now recorded the horror that was unfolding in the Atheletes' Village.
Meanwhile, oblivious to what was going on at the heart of the Games, the sports carried on as normal while pressure mounted for Germany to suspend the competition.
Twelve hours after the first athlete had been murdered, organisers finally bowed to international pressure and suspended the Games.
But the cameras were still watching and as German troops prepared to storm the building at 4.30pm.
 
They swarmed onto the roof and the images were being beamed around the world.
However, they were also being shown inside the apartment occupied by the hostage takers.
Barry Davies said: "It empowered the terrorists inside the building because they could see exactly what was going on."
Chilling footage and images show one of the gunmen peer from a balcony door.
Wearing a balaclava and unrecognisable, this horror mask became the face of the Games.
Prof Schuler said: "It appears like a skull and reminds the worldof the disruption of what was supposed to be a peaceful and joyful Games."
The rescue operation had to be abandoned when the terrorists, who could see the police coming, warned authorities they would kill all the hostages.
They then issued a new demand - safe transport to Cairo.
After speaking to one of the hostages to determine if they were still alive, police were told there were four or five terrorists - a number theny accepted without question which would prove a deadly mistake.
Germany pretended to agree to the latest demand and provided two military helicopters to transport the gunmen and their hostages to a nearby airbase for their flight.
The group had to walk 200 metres underground to reach the helicopters and snipers lay in wait to take down the gunmen.
But one of the snipers was spotted by the terrorists and the operation had to be abandoned.
A back up plan, using armed officers at the airport was then set in motion.
The helicopter landed and two of the gunmen walked across the runway to inspect the plane.
As they made their way back to the helicopter, the five German police opened fire but instead of the five terrorists they were expecting, there were eight.
It was chaos and 30 minutes into the gun battle the helicopter pilots were shot and their attacker hurled a grenade into the cockpit.
It incinerated the helicopter and all those on board.
Just three of the terrorists were still alive and were taken into custody.
The five killed in the gun battle and explosion were flown back to Libya, where they were given a heroes welcome.
While the Games was suspended for five days a huge memorial was held in the Olympic stadium for the 11 Israeli athletes who had been murdered.
Israel's response to the attack was immediate and brutal with bombings and anyone who was suspected of being involved was hunted down.
Less than two months after the massacre, Black September terrorists hijacked a Lufthansa passenger plane and threatened to blow it up unless the three surviving gunmen were released.
Their demands were agreed to and all the passengers were freed.
The remaining three terrorists were welcomed home as heroes and paraded in front of the world at a press conference.
Since then, it is believed Israel's Wrath of God killed two of them while the third has been in hiding ever since.
Barry Davies said: "Life has to go on but no one who was at Munich will ever forget what happened."
