
# Melbourne Cup win by Michelle Payne has not changed attitudes towards women in racing

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:11:49+00:00**

Author: **Richard Hinds**

Original: [ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-11-01/melbourne-cup-michelle-payne-female-jockey-stereotypes/11659200)

There is a scene in the movie Ride Like a Girl during which our heroine Michelle Payne waits outside a ritzy Melbourne restaurant while the connections of Prince of Penzance debate her fate.
Should they let a female ride their Melbourne Cup runner or replace her with, well, you know, a "proper" jockey?
Viewed in glorious retrospect, together with the other incidences where Payne is treated as a second-class citizen, this dramatisation provides the context to one of the greatest moments in Melbourne Cup history.
As we know while watching the movie, in which Payne is forced to squirm impatiently as the owners ruminate over beef and red wine, she will go on to sool the 100 to 1 shot to victory and then use the spotlight to make an impassioned stand on behalf of all female jockeys.
"It's such a chauvinistic sport, a lot of owners wanted to kick me off," said Payne after winning the Melbourne Cup.
"Everyone else can get stuffed [who] think women aren't good enough."
And there it was, the defiant moment that changed everything for female jockeys — except it hasn't.
Sadly, four years later, that scene portraying Payne waiting for the mostly male owners to determine her worthiness can be viewed in a less uplifting light.
Rather than the game-changing moment it seemed, it instead emphasises the enduring power imbalance in racing where female jockeys beg for the crumbs from the table of owners and trainers who remain dubious about their capabilities.
The decision by the owners of Victoria Derby runner Thought Of That to replace leading jockey Linda Meech with Mark Zahra has brought the treatment of female riders back into focus.
Meech, a Group 1 winner, steered Thought Of That to its two recent wins including a runaway victory in the Caulfield Classic, a performance most jockeys would be entitled to believe gave them the inside running for the Victoria Derby ride.
Yet Thought Of That's owners exercised their right to choose a different — yes, male — jockey for reasons they justified with Mark Zahra's "superior record".
Never mind Meech has a better strike rate this season, leads the Victorian Premiership and has demonstrated an affinity with the horse. Zahra's 15 Group One winners trumped Meech's compelling credentials.
Predictably much of the social media feedback equated Meech's fate to other hard-luck stories in a notoriously tough sport.
"Male jockeys get replaced all the time but as soon as a female does it's sexist?
"Would this be such a big issue if Zahra replaced another male jockey? But because he's replaced a female the world is about to end and it cries sexism".
And so it went, mostly ignoring the abiding element of actual or subconscious prejudice that means a female jockey seldom gets the kind of line-ball call that allowed Payne to demonstrate her capability on the grandest stage.
Not to mention the whispers and innuendo about the relative strength and even courage of female jockeys in comparison with their male counterparts that deprive even those with Meech's tremendous record of the benefit of the doubt.
These myths continue to subject female jockey victims to a vicious cycle in which they don't get the opportunity to prove themselves and don't get the chance to fully capitalise on their successes when they do.
Payne's frustration that Meech's tale could not have the same happy ending as her own was obvious.
Her curt response to a tweet by principal owner Brae Sokolski stated the decision was one for the owners, not the public: "Not for the public to decide but the public can recognise you as a pig."
Payne's tweet, later deleted, was punished by a $1,000 fine for breaching racing's social media regulations that forbid industry figures from posting material that is "obscene, offensive, defamatory, racist, threatening, harassing, discriminatory or abusive".
For his part, Sokolski was indignant claiming his family was distraught because he had been called a "pig" and his reputation was sullied. He insisted Payne "needs to be held to account to ensure a lesson is learnt".
But while Payne's statement was needlessly personal, the irony that the owners rather than Meech became the victims in this story will not be lost on those female jockeys who continue to struggle for rides.
Particularly given the progress Payne's widely celebrated Melbourne Cup stand seemed to promise, and also the relative progress in other sports.
You can now turn on free-to-air TV in prime-time and watch the WBBL, replete with now reasonably well-paid players whose skills are rising in proportion to the game's greater financial investment.
The Women's T20 World Cup organisers hope to pack the MCG for the final in March, a once preposterous ambition that now seems achievable.
Incrementally women's football, Australian Rules, netball, basketball and other team sports continue to narrow the gap between well-paid men and once virtually amateur female athletes, while Ash Barty will finish the year world number one — lauded and beloved in a nation that was the first to offer equal prize money for women at its grand slam tournament.
The significant difference is that female jockeys compete head-to-head with men and often suffer unflattering and unjustified comparisons as a result of stepping into a still male-dominated domain.
Consequently, despite Payne's achievement, racing still lags lengths behind in granting equality.
Which is why you couldn't help feel some sympathy for Meech when she responded to her demotion from Thought Of That: "I hope it gets beat."
