
# How Hanna Fiedler Went From The Berlin Opera To Launching Her Own Brand

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bridget Arsenault**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bridgetarsenault/2019/11/02/how-hanna-fiedler-went-from-the-berlin-opera-to-launching-her-own-brand/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Hanna Fiedler creates clothes for women who want to stand out without screaming. German born and now London based, Hanna launched her eponymous brand in December 2018. She got her start training as a traditional bespoke tailor at the Berlin Opera Foundation and studied design and pattern cutting at the London College of Fashion. After graduating, Hanna worked for a series of well-known labels, including Gabriela Hearst, Mary Katrantzou and McQ-Alexander McQueen. Her own Hanna Fiedler marque reflects her passion for tailoring, pattern cutting and craftsmanship.1. How did you first set up shop and create the Hanna Fiedler brand? As a bespoke tailor and fashion designer, I wanted to start with the product. I valued attention to detail, quality materials and craftsmanship, thanks to my years tailoring at the Berlin Opera. And I took these high standards and brought them to my ready-to-wear. We launched with Prologue in 2018, a nine-piece introductory capsule collection, where I aimed to showcase the essence of who I am as a designer and my vision for the brand.
2. What are some of the design elements that define your brand and aesthetic? What sets you apart from your competitors? My pieces have a certain calmness. I love to create things that are subtle, but rich in detail. A lot of my designs are influenced by traditional tailoring. Traditional tailors have often spent decades perfecting the cut and quality of their work and often find subtle ways of leaving their personal mark, which is something I admire. I think my background in pattern cutting also shines through in my design aesthetic. I like to experiment with construction techniques and to find new ways of shaping the fabric around the body. Also, we only use natural fibres and always test-wear our designs to make sure they feel as good as they look. I think what sets us apart is that we embrace traditional tailoring methods, create with longevity in mind and produce locally.
3. What advice do you have for other young entrepreneurs? I am still very much in the middle of figuring out how to be an entrepreneur myself! But one piece of advice I would give to others would be not to start any business that you are not passionate about. This will most likely become the centre of your life for years to come. Be in it for the right reasons.
4. Talk me through process? I know that all of your pieces are British made - how did you find your workshop and tailors? Yes, we currently produce exclusively in London. We work with two independent ateliers that produce the garments for us. London is lucky to still have small-to-medium-sized production facilities.
5. When you meet someone at a party, how do you describe what you do?Being totally honest with you, it’s quite unlikely that you meet me at a party. I love going out for dinner or cooking at home with friends, but I’m rarely spotted at a party. I just enjoy a calm and early night too much.
But when asked what I do, I say that I am a fashion designer, creating clothes for women who want to stand out without screaming.
6. Walk me through the experience and chronology when someone contacts you to create a piece through to when you deliver the finished product? When someone is interested in purchasing a garment from us, they can either do that through our website, or by booking an appointment in our London-based studio. There, they have the chance to see and feel the collection before making a decision. For our ready-to-wear pieces, we decide on style, colour, and size and we then order the necessary materials before all the components are taken to the London ateliers for production. From order to delivery it takes about six weeks, and we try to make things interesting by keeping clients updated through all the stages of production.
Any of our made-to-measure or bespoke projects will start with an initial meeting where we discuss what client is looking for, followed by a design meeting to choose colours, fabrics and design details, followed by one to two fittings. Bespoke projects are incredibly exciting for us, as we are able to directly work with our clients and develop designs exclusively for them.
7. What are the trends you've picked up on around how people buy and wear high-end fashion in 2019? I think more and more luxury fashion houses are branching out from their traditional frameworks and into areas such as streetwear or wellness. I love seeing traditional fashion houses collaborate with young talents from other industries or creating non-traditional luxury products.
Another development, which I refuse to call a trend but am incredibly happy about, is the growing awareness with customers, brands and press alike for a more sustainable and conscious way of producing and buying fashion.
8. How has social media changed what you do? I came into the industry just when Instagram was starting to become really popular, so I haven’t really experienced a way of working without social media. However, I think it certainly changed how designers work and also how their success is measured.
Before social media, a brand could sell easily thousands of products around the world without any client meeting another person wearing the same piece. Now a product can become ubiquitous just by people reposting the collection imagery or taking changing room selfies without ever purchasing the product. This has really changed the definition of uniqueness, authenticity and personal style.
