
# Gogglebox star and Queen of the Jungle's Scarlett Moffatt earns £3m in two years

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:17:25+00:00**

Author: **Janine Yaqoob**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/gogglebox-star-queen-jungles-scarlett-20798767)

Scarlett Moffatt’s earnings are mind-Goggling – as the telly favourite rakes in £3million in two years.
After rising to fame on Channel 4’s Gogglebox, she was crowned Queen of the Jungle on I’m A Celebrity in 2017.
She swiftly became a woman in demand –joining Ant and Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway and hosting I’m A Celeb Extra Camp until this year.
Enjoying the fruits of her labours, she splashed out £300,000 on a luxury house for herself... and also helped her parents pay for their home.
 
Latest accounts for the firm that handles her TV and media work reveal that she paid herself £240,000 this year.
Scarlett, 27, took home £448,000 from Northern Unicorn Productions Ltd in 2018.
She has paid £200,000 in tax in two years.
It means that before costs and deductible expenditure, plus investments such as housing were subtracted by her accountant, she raked in close to £3m in two years.
 
A source says: “She is now a very wealthy young woman and is earning more each year. She’s delighted to be in this position.”
Scarlett revealed during her stint in the Aussie jungle that she’d been able to pay off the mortgage on her parents’ house in County Durham.
She said: “Oh it was the best. I just wrote them a letter and said, ‘Thanks for being mint’, and ‘Sorry for leaving fake tan all over the house’, and then I put a cheque in for them.”
They have since moved to a larger house with her help.
Scarlett’s most recent show, The British Tribe Next Door, has been called exploitative and uncomfortable viewing by some critics.
It sees her and her family living alongside a group of cattle herders in the African village of Otjeme, Namibia.
But viewers have come round to the concept, praising its sentiment.
