
# St Mirren striker Jon Obika praises Buddies for showing no fear at Celtic Park

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:17:20+00:00**

Author: **Ben Ramage**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/st-mirren-striker-jon-obika-20788019)

Powerful Saints striker Jon Obika is proud of his teammates for showing “no fear” at Celtic Park.
Despite going in as huge underdogs, the Buddies kept the Hoops out in a close first half, with the visitors threatening to break the deadlock on the counter attack.
While St Mirren ultimately lost out to the Glasgow giants, the 29-year-old Londoner was pleased his team stood up well to the test against Neil Lennon’s side.
“I feel these type of games require a lot of concentration,” he said.
“Especially in the first half we did that and made it difficult for Celtic .
“They’ve got a lot of quality but I’m just happy with the boys that we showed no fear.
“We were a bit sloppy as a team coming out in the second half and that cost us.
“I’m looking forward to watching it back and seeing how we can improve.
“I enjoy every test. They’re very good centre-halves so I’m looking forward to playing against them again soon.”
 
The former Tottenham Hotspur youth academy forward gave towering Celtic defenders Kristoffer Ajer and Christopher Jullien problems over the course of the game, linking the play up well with his teammates and testing keeper Fraser Forster.
And he insists that, with the first round of fixtures under their belts, the new-look Buddies will be picking up more points after this weekend’s enforced hiatus.
He said: “I feel defensively we’ve been very solid.
“We know we need to score more goals, but through training and the games I think we’re gelling together well.
“Especially at Kilmarnock, even though we lost that game when we looked back we were on the front foot and created a lot of chances.
“When we start taking our chances we’ll all start enjoying it more.
“I feel with the group we have there’s a lot of quality in our team. Going into the next few games you’re going to see the best of us.
“Over the last three games we’ve shown that we can be on the front foot, which is important.”
 
Obika admits it took him some time to settle into life in the Scottish Premiership , especially as he didn’t enjoy a full pre-season.
Now he’s up to speed, he is desperate to add to his goal tally after opening his account in the recent win over St Johnstone.
He added: “Scottish football is very different.
“The teams are very organised and defensively strong.
“It’s always a physical battle, but I’ve enjoyed it so far.
“Back in England you watch the Scottish games, and now tasting it you know you have to be switched on at all times.
“I like to bring people in to the play and lead the line well, so it suits me.
“It was good to score against St Johnstone but most important was the win.
“As a team, defensively we’ve been strong so the boys up front need to start taking chances, so that was definitely a relief.
“I feel fitter now.
“I didn’t really have a pre-season but now I feel fit. There are no excuses now not to go on and get some goals.”
