
# Starting XI: SuperSport v Arrows

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:06:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/match-reports/absa-premiership-starting-xi-supersport-united-v-golden-arrows-05-november-2019/666742)


        Absa Premiership
      
Teams: SuperSport United and Golden Arrows
Date: 05 November 2019
Venue: Mbombela Stadium
Just three days after their Telkom Knockout encounter, SuperSport United and Golden Arrows do battle in the Absa Premiership at Mbombela Stadium this evening.

        
          View The PSL Table
        
      
Arrows reigned supreme in the Telkom Knockout quarter-final clash on Saturday, with Lindokuhle Mtshali finding the back of the net with an impressive free-kick.
Kaitano Tembo’s troops last league outing was a 1-1 draw with Bloemfontein Celtic last Wednesday, as they dropped to fifth on the table with 13 points from nine matches.
Steve Komphela’s charges, meanwhile, beat Polokwane City 2-1 in their last league game and moved up to seventh spot as a result.
When the sides clashed last season in the league, they played to a 1-1 draw in this fixture, while Matsatsantsa beat Arrows 3-2 in the second round fixture in Durban.

        Here's how they line up:
      
SuperSport: 30. Williams, 12. Webber, 18. Nhlapo, 23. Fleurs, 4. Daniels, 8. Furman, 24. Mbule, 13. Gabuza, 16. Modiba, 7. Grobler, 19. Rusike.
Subs: 33. Pule, 20. Kekana, 3. Khumalo, 28. Mokoena, 27. Le Roux, 11. Mahachi, 34. Mayo.
Arrows: 30. Sibanda, 13. Lunga, 20. Mathiane, 29. Sibisi, 14. S. Dube, 15. Makhubela, 26. Phiri, 5. Shitolo, 16. Parusnath, 33. M.Gumede, 18. Mutizwa.
Subs: 32. N.Gumede, 23. L.Dube, 2. Nkombela, 4. Venter, 35. Mtshali, 22. Sibeko, 11. Sibiya.
