
# [Interview] Rian Johnson Discusses ‘Knives Out’, Its Inspiration, And Murder Mysteries

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jeff Ewing**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffewing/2019/11/07/interview-rian-johnson-discusses-knives-out-its-inspiration-and-murder-mysteries/)

Knives Out, the black-comedy whodunit premiering November 27th, is easily one of the most fun films I’ve seen all year. An original murder mystery, the film follows the family of wealthy crime novelist Harlan Thrombey after his death, discovered on the day after his birthday. The police investigation, assisted by detective Benoit Blanc (an excellent performance by Daniel Craig), discovers an increasing surplus of family secrets... to spoil any of the film wouldn’t be criminal, but perhaps it should be. It’s a wonderful ride–be prepared to see it more than once.I interviewed the film’s writer/director Rian Johnson (Brick, The Last Jedi) about the film and its inspiration.

        JE: What inspired you to create Knives Out?
      
RJ: [The genre] is comfort food for me. My whole life it’s something I keep coming back to, and I've always wanted to do a whodunit. About 10 years ago I had just a very basic idea for this one, and I’ve been chewing on it ever since. After The Last Jedi it felt like the right thing to do next. But that's where it really came from, just my love of whodunits and wanting to make a modern one. For me, one of the big marching orders for myself with this, and for everyone involved, was that we’re not making a moving about whodunits we’re making a real whodunit. It’s got to have a heart on its own, keep one foot on the ground I suppose.

        JE: It is clearly a fun film with levity, but that levity is balanced against a serious murder mystery. In writing the movie, how did you go about walking that line between the two?
      
RJ: [...] you know not ‘about something’ in terms of it being a ‘message movie’ but ‘about something’ in terms of it being about a character that you care, who you're really rooting for. And in that way the movie itself has stakes, and it also means that hopefully the movie is satisfying at the end beyond just sort of ‘whodunit’ aspect of it. That's something that Agatha Christie was very, very good at... Christie excelled in writing characters, and would always layer in something else besides just the puzzle-box of the whodunit in her books, something else that you were rooting for or waiting for with the character[...] I think that that helps.

        JE: I know that even though the film is a pretty well-balanced ensemble piece, much of it focuses on the character of Marta [a riveting performance by Ana de Armas] where maybe a more conventional film would follow the investigator Benoit Blanc. So how did you choose who to focus on?
      
RJ: It's interesting though [to think about] detective whodunits as opposed to film noir, where you are very much with the detective all of the time, looking through their eyes. With traditional whodunits, generally you’re not. That's the reason that Watson exists. Christie's Poirot novels there's this character Captain Hastings who is very often there. The detective usually has a sidekick who is one step behind the detective, and who is the character you’re really seeing the story through. That's kind of the convention of it.
There’s also the notion of merging the dynamics of a Hitchcock thriller with that, where it's not just a sidekick to the detective but there’s a bit of The 39 Steps in there... it’s somebody we care about ... And then we're not just trying to figure out the crime but we're actually emotionally involved and leaning forward to see how they're going to get out of a [dangerous] predicament. So those things can be combined for the focus on Marta.

        JE: It's a little hard talk about the structure of the film without giving anything away, but it's it's a tightly-woven back-and-forth narrative. What was your writing process like?
      
RJ: I outline my stories extensively before I write them. The structural idea of it was to take the framework of a whodunit and put the engine of a Hitchcock thriller behind it. You get all the pleasure of a whodunit, but you have something to pull you through the movie besides just gathering clues and trying to guess what the ending is going to be. Right. So that was kind of the structural approach to it. 80% of the writing process for me is structuring and planning and outlining. Actually writing the script is just the very last step.

        JE: What was the shoot like?
      
RJ: One thing that I’ve really been enjoying is going around to different festivals with it, because I think the audiences can sense how much fun everybody is having on screen... That was really my experience of the shoot. You know, we had all these movie stars, and we're all in the middle of Massachusetts shooting in this Murder Mystery Mansion. Everyone just had a really good time–in-between takes people wouldn’t go back to their trailers, they’d just hang out in the rec room down in the basement. It really felt like summer camp for movie stars... really, really, really fun.

        JE: Finally, Knives Out is certainly not a politically driven film but there are moments that imply critical thoughts and insights. How important are those moments to the film or its meaning?
      
RJ: For me, part of what was exciting about this is ‘let's do a classic whodunit, [but] set today.’ To me, that meant not just giving it a modern skin with modern music or modern cars or cell phones. To me that meant, okay, if we're really going to set it today, let's really plug it in to 2019. And that means when this family gets drunk and starts arguing with each other, they're going to argue about the things that all of us argue about in our family. I hope that that stuff is layered in, it’s meant to be layered in with the fun entertainment [of the mystery], but also it’s important that it’s there.
–
Knives Out premieres nationwide on November 27th, and it’s seriously some of the most fun I’ve had in theaters all year. Check it out!
