
# Kym Marsh enjoys glam bash with Corrie co-stars after filming her final scenes

Published at: **2019-11-02T02:51:01+00:00**

Author: **Brogan-Leigh Hurst**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kym-marsh-enjoys-glam-bash-20792764)

Kym Marsh celebrated filming her final Coronation Street scenes with a glitzy night out in Manchester on Friday.
The 43-year-old soap star was spotted arriving in a comfy outfit with a garment bag in hand - no doubt containing a suitably glam ensemble.
Joining her at the bash were Lucy Fallon, who plays Bethany Platt, and Tina O'Brien, who portrays Sarah-Louise Platt on the cobbles.
The on-screen sisters both wore elegant black dresses, paired with black heels.
Lucy sported a studded off-the-shoulder dress which she paired with a Gucci handbag, while Tina wore a gorgeous sweetheart neckline number.
They both made sure their make-up was on point by donning siren red lipstick.
Meanwhile, Kym stepped out of a car in casual clothes, wearing a one shoulder baggy sweatshirt and trendy cargo trousers, which she paired with fresh white trainers.
Her long brunette hair was simply put into a bun on her head, as she flashed a smile knowing she was about to join her pals.
Other Corrie stars made their way to Kym's huge bash, including Jane Danson (Leanne Battersby) and Alison King (Carla Connor).
 
Rob Mallard (Daniel Osbourne) and Jack P Shepherd (David Platt) also joined the celebrations.
Corrie favourite Kym has played Michelle Connor since 2006 but she is swapping the ITV soap for the theatre.
She first announced her exit from the soap in February, after 13 years of playing Michelle.
Recently speaking on This Morning, Kym revealed that pal Alison has been left in tears over her decision to leave the ITV soap.
The pair, who are best friends and part of the Connor family on-screen, share a dressing room - but not for much longer.
On Alison's reaction to her exit, Kym said: "She's kind of fallen out with me about it. She keeps having a little cry. She's going to miss me and I'm going to miss her incredibly."
