
# Prince William says Grenfell Tower support 'wasn't well targeted'

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:07:19+00:00**

Author: **Russell Myers, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/russell-myers/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/prince-william-says-grenfell-tower-20834898)

Prince William has told how he felt donations and support for Grenfell Tower survivors “seemed like it wasn’t well targeted” as he launched a new national emergency scheme to help victims.
The Duke of Cambridge acknowledged it was “an emotional time” for victims of the fire disaster following the release of the public inquiry report.
The National Emergencies Trust is a new charity designed to improve the emergency response to disasters in the UK.
After meeting Grenfell survivors, who spoke of their troubles after the fire that killed 72, William said: “It takes so long to get back to normal again.
"For Grenfell there was a huge outpouring of love and support but it seemed like it wasn’t well targeted.
“Will the NET help with that, do you think?”
Natasha Elcock, a Grenfell survivor and Chair of Grenfell United, the survivors and bereaved families group, told the couple how she had been rescued at 4.45am, making her one of the last families to survive.
She replied: “Yes, absolutely, we’re learning from what happened. So many people sent clothes and food but at the time we had absolutely no place to put them. No home, no cupboard, wardrobe and no fridge. So it’s about making sure that the outpouring you talk about is well targeted.”
The Duchess of Cambridge joined her husband for the event – and looked stunning in a blue Emilia Wickstead dress, black heels and earrings once owned by Princess Diana.
Kate replied: “It’s not just the support provided at the time, but how it is continued into the future and hopefully it will help with that too.”
The launch was held today at St Martin-in-the-Fields, an English Anglican church in central London.
Upon arrival, the couple sat down with a group of survivors from recent disasters to hear their stories.
They included Karim Mussilhy, vice chair, described how his uncle – who had been told to stay in his flat – had lost his life.
“We’re working really hard to make sure that what we went through never happens again”, he said.
The Duke, acknowledging the release of the Grenfell report, said: “It must be a hard emotional time, it must be very raw for you.”
Hanan Wahabi, explained that she had lost “my brother, his wife and his children – they were all told to stay put.”As people shared their experiences, the Duchess noted, “these aren’t just one-off events, they have lifelong consequences.”
William remarked that “whenever and wherever disaster strikes here in the UK, this country has a unique way of pulling together”, including “the children who empty their piggy banks.”
Acknowledging that managing the public’s desire to help can “prove tricky”, he said: “I am very pleased that the National Emergencies Trust now stands ready to provide a structured, organised response to help people right across the UK in the event of a domestic disaster.”
