
# Sandilands’ Consoling Message...

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:31:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/wayne-sandilands-has-sent-a-message-to-orlando-pirates-teammate/666522)

Orlando Pirates goalkeeper Wayne Sandilands has sent a message of encouragement to a teammate at the club.
After struggling for game time earlier in the campaign in his first season ever in the Absa Premiership, following his arrival from Europe amidst much fanfare, goalkeeper Joris Delle was handed his first real taste of Mzansi football in league match against Chippa United in September.

        Read: Pirates Duo Battle For Derby Spot V Chiefs 
      
The 29-year-old French keeper was again in goals for Bucs in the two games that followed, against Bidvest Wits and Cape Town City respectively. 
Delle conceded eight goals in total from the three matches as Bucs won 2-1 against Chippa, lost to Wits 4-3, and drew 3-3 with City.
Sandilands, who has conceded only one goal in three matches since taking over from Delle, believes that the Frenchman will come back from the setback.  
“I think Joris is a strong character. I think, obviously playing in Europe and growing up in that environment there’s a certain level of mental strength that you need to have. I think Joris is fine. He’s got very good qualities as a keeper. He’s got a very good all round game and that’s obviously from the coaching he’s received and the level that he’s been playing at,” said Sandilands, speaking to the media.

        Read: Pirates Keeper’s Dissimilar Soweto Derby Perspective… 
      
“I don’t think it (conceding eight goals in three matches) should change anybody’s perception of him. I’m sure he’s looking forward to the next opportunity that he gets to play. Obviously when you’re defending or conceding goals as a team it’s not only about the keeper, and it’s not only about the defence,” Sandilands added.  
