
# KFC receipt next to woman's corpse leads to 'love triangle which sparked murder'

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:49:22+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/kfc-receipt-next-womans-corpse-20815140)

A KFC receipt found next to a murdered woman's body helped police track down her alleged killer, it has emerged.
When Anna Repkina's corpse was found in a ditch in Oregon, US, investigators had no idea who she was.
But a fast food bag close by contained a vital clue, and led police to uncover a "problematic love triangle" which they believe led to her death.
Ms Repkina had reportedly been lured from Russia by William Chase Hargrove's promise to marry her - but his existing lover was furious as their relationship developed.
After Michelle Chavez - who was herself in a loveless marriage - gave Hargrove an ultimatum, he murdered Ms Repkina "execution style", it is claimed.
 
Police made the link when they questioned Hargrove's pal Kevin Thomas, whose name was on the fast food receipt.
He had eaten the KFC meal with his friend, who told him about his troubled lovelife.
Hargrove had recently asked Thomas if he could borrow a shotgun, the Gazette-Times reports.
Hargrove, 29, is now on trial accused of murdering the 27-year-old.
It is alleged that Ms Repkina was taken to a remote area by her killer and shot in the back of the head.
At a 2017 hearing, prosecutor Amie Matusko said: “He took the victim out to a very remote logging location, “and she was found shot dead in the back of her head, execution style.”
 
Hargrove however claims he is innocent - accusing Ms Chavez of being the real killer.
She denies any involvement in the murder.
Bouncer Hargrove moved into a home owned by Chavez, who he started an open relationship - which her husband was aware of.
At the same time he began chatting to Ms Repkina online, and she flew from Moscow to meet him in 2016.
She made the move permanent the following year, the trial heard, and posted on Facebook that the pair were going to marry.
But by that time Ms Chavez had vowed to leave her husband, and given Hargrove her wedding ring - which he then used to propose to his second lover.
They were due to marry on March 2017, but did not go through with it.
On April 16 that year, it is alleged, Hargrove used the shotgun he had borrowed from Thomas to murder Ms Repkina.
Shortly after the killing, he met up with Ms Chavez for sex, prosecutors claim.
In a statement to the Washington Post , defence attorney Mike Flinn said: “Mr. Hargrove has always maintained that he did not kill his fiancee.
“The evidence at trial will clearly show that Michelle Chavez murdered Anna Repkina.”
