
# GlaxoSmithKline appoints former Lafarge Africa’s director, Oludewa Adodo-Thorpe 

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:49:12+00:00**

Author: **Fakoyejo Olalekan**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/01/glaxosmithkline-appoints-former-lafarge-africas-director-oludewa-adodo-thorpe/)

GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria Plc has expanded the size of its Board of Directors with the appointment of a former director at Lafarge Africa Plc, Oludewa Adodo-Thorpe. She was appointed as a non-executive director, a role that involves policymaking and planning exercises.
The appointment was disclosed through a statement published on the website of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The Company was quoted on the NSE in 1977 but was incorporated in Nigeria on June 23, 1971 and commenced business on July 1, 1972. It last traded at N6.30 kobo per share on October 31, 2019.

        [READ MORE: 
        RT Briscoe Nigeria Plc appoints new Executive Director, CFO]
      
Speaking on her appointment, the company said, “The Board is very confident that with her background, relevant experience and significant involvement in the capital market community, Mr. Adodo-Thorpe would add significant value to the quality and diversity of the Board of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria Plc.”
Thorpe, who also acted as a non-executive director at Lafarge Africa Plc, will resume duties at GlaxoSmithKline on December 5, 2019.
About Oludewa Adodo-Thorpe: She is a lawyer with vast experience across board, according to the statement released by GlaxoSmithKline. Details of her career growth are noted below.

        [READ ALSO: 
        Fidelity Bank announces retirement of Deputy Managing Director, appoints new Executive Director]
      
