
# Yobs throw fireworks at riot police on bonfire night in Leeds street clashes

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:16:32+00:00**

Author: **Ruth Ovens**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/yobs-throw-fireworks-riot-police-20821441)

Yobs pelted riot police with fireworks on bonfire night during street clashes in Leeds.
Shocking footage showed a row of armoured officers using shields to protect themselves as dangerous projectiles were hurled at them.
Police are investigating incidents of disorder and anti-social behaviour involving a group of youths in the Harehills Road  area of the city.
Reports were received of fireworks and missiles being thrown and bins set alight at around 8.30pm last night, Leeds Live reports.
The road was closed, while officers contained the incident.
A number of people have been arrested and investigations are currently ongoing to identify all those involve.
No-one was reported to have been injured, but police vehicles were damaged.
West Yorkshire Police, Chief Superintendent Damien Miller said: “In conjunction with our partner agencies, we have prepared for all possible eventualities over the bonfire period.
“We made it clear from the outset that any instances of disorder or antisocial behaviour would not be tolerated and we were able to quickly respond.
“Those individuals that engage in such behaviour are within the minority and do not represent the wider community.
“We will continue to provide reassurance in the local area with high visibility patrols.”
Anyone with information as to those responsible is asked to contact the non-emergency number 101 quoting reference 1932 of 05/11.
