
# Pakistan, Thailand to review progress of FTA in Jan 2020

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:04:22+00:00**

Author: **APP**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2094266/2-pakistan-thailand-review-progress-fta-jan-2020/)

KARACHI: Thailand has submitted a list of around 200 items to be traded between the two countries under the proposed free trade agreement (FTA) and Pakistan’s response and progress is now awaited, said Consul General of Thailand in Karachi Thatree Chauvachata.
Talking about the ongoing Pakistan-Thailand FTA negotiations at the Karachi Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) on Tuesday, he said the issue was pending with Pakistan’s Ministry of Commerce and Thailand was waiting for its response.
The Thai diplomat said that political consultations between Thai and Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs were due to be held in January 2020 in Islamabad to review the progress of the FTA.
“The Karachi chamber can also play a vital role in the consultations by pushing the government to expedite and complete all the work prior to the meeting in January,” he added. The consul general pointed out that Pak-Thai Business House was launched at the Thai consulate following the completion of its first year of service in Karachi.
“The consulate intends to strengthen bilateral ties through this platform, which has already received 10 inquiries pertaining to the two-way trade,” he said. He revealed that in December, a Pakistani delegation will visit Thailand.

        Published in The Express Tribune, November 6th, 2019.
      
