
# When Do Amazon’s Black Friday Sales Start?

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Christian de Looper**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/06/when-do-amazons-black-friday-sales-start/)

Black Friday is well and truly on the way, and while in-store deals are still likely to cause stampedes, online sales may well be the best way to go. As one of the largest online retailers, many are looking to Amazon for the best Black Friday deals around —and the company is unlikely to disappoint. But when can you take advantage of Amazon’s Black Friday sales? Well, it depends. The company has actually already announced a series of pre-Black Friday deals, meaning that you might be able to get your hands on a product at an ultra-low price right now. But those are pre-Black Friday deals, not the actual deals themselves.
Thankfully, Amazon has already announced exactly when its Black Friday sales will start. While in previous years, Black Friday sales didn’t start until the actual day, this year you’ll be able to get your hands on some incredible deals starting on November 22. That’s a full week before Black Friday itself. The official start time is midnight on November 22, and the sales will end at midnight on November 29. That said, the company will likely also have sales on Monday, December 2, which is Cyber Monday.
Amazon is likely to run sales on a massive range of products. Perhaps the biggest deals will be on tech, especially when it comes to Amazon’s own products, like the Amazon Echo. There will also be some impressive deals on TVs, computers and so on—so if you’re in the market for those products, it’s worth keeping an eye out.
The deals won’t be limited to tech, thankfully. You’ll also get huge discounts on furniture, clothing and more—so no matter what you’re in the market for, keep an eye out starting on November 22.
