
# The Hundred | Darren Lehmann appoints Aaron Finch as captain of Northern Superchargers

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:09:30+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/the-hundred-darren-lehmann-appoints-aaron-finch-as-captain-of-northern-superchargers?utm_medium=rss)


        Australian T20 and ODI captain Aaron Finch has been named as the captain of Northern Superchargers by coach Darren Lehmann. The right-handed explosive opener was the first pick of Lehmann from the draft of The Hundred and the experience of already having worked with him will help the team a lot.
      
Northern Superchargers have announced Australian white-ball captain Aaron Finch as their skipper for the inaugural edition of The Hundred. He was the first pick of coach Darren Lehmann from the draft and their experience of already having worked together in the national outfit in the past will go a long way in helping the team make strategies.
Northern Superchargers will boast a lot about their chances as they also have the services of super all-rounder Ben Stokes who has had a terrific 2019, first with the World Cup win and then playing one of the finest Test innings of all time. With Finch also having experience of playing county cricket and T20 cricket in England, adapting to conditions will not be that big an issue for him.
“I’ve spent many years working alongside Darren and I’m really excited to be heading back to Headingley (Yorkshire’s home ground) as captain of the Northern Superchargers,” Finch reported as saying by Sportstar.
“I think we have an excellent side with a good mixture of quality English cricketers and some match-winning overseas stars and I’m very confident of our chances when The Hundred kicks off next summer,” he added.
Lehmann too was extremely positive about his team's chances after having picked a great squad from the draft. He has complete faith in Finch and believes that he has the ability to step up for the team and take those crucial decisions that could change the course of the game.
“I think we’ve picked a great team and I’m really excited to see what Aaron and I can do with the group. He is a world-class cricketer and a superb leader,” said Lehmann.
“We want to start The Hundred with a bang and get even more people watching this innovative new short-form of cricket,” Lehmann concluded.
