
# 'Having a laugh' Birmingham City fans react to £6m transfer rumour

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:40:59+00:00**

Author: **Brian Dick, https://www.facebook.com/blueswriterbriandick/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/having-laugh-birmingham-city-fans-17197905)

Birmingham City have been linked with a January swoop for Burnley striker Nahki Wells.
The Sun (November 3 edition) claims Blues could look to take Wells from his loan with QPR as his parent club look to cash in on the player.
Wells is in the final few months of his Clarets’ contract but according to Sun journalist Alan Nixon, Burnley have an option to extend for another season.
And they could also be looking to cash in with the suggestion that Blues could launch a £6million bid for the 29-year-old when the window reopens having had a nibble at him in the summer.
We asked Blues fans what they thought.
This is your round up of all things Birmingham City; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Blues throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest BCFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Blues reporter Brian Dick on Twitter, and his email address is Brian.Dick@reachplc.com
Andrew Tetsell: Gayle all the way for me, hes proven and a far superior player. We can obviously afford him as we agreed wages with the player, only for Newcastle to increase price past 12 million. The original deal was worth between 10-12 million so go again might get him nearer 10 million now as his contract is up in June. If not Gayle then ivan toney, young and hungry and would cost half the funds of Gayle.
Stephen Massey: Only Gayle for me with our funds. He’s a proven goal scorer and you’ve only got to listen to west Brom fans go on about him. He would totally change the look of our team in the threat up front . Our problem is he will be wanted by many clubs come January so it’s wise to keep the options available. No1 Gayle ,don’t mess about
Cody Cole: Not really gonna improve the squad or have a big impact we need to be more ambitious rather than looking at average players
John Palmer: Rather pay the extra for Gayle if we’re willing to spend 6mil
Steven Cale: Dwight Gayle for me if we can afford him, if not seek a younger pacy forward who can develop and have a big resale value in a couple of years. Cheap options abroad I’m sure of it.
Mark Ivory: Younger hungry player up front is what we need better for the money about than wells 6 mill to pricey
Andrew Barrie: Nope.. Go get Ivan Toney or Mo Eisa from Peterborough
Jordan Bohemia: I think he’d definitely do well for us but I wouldn’t pay £6m for him no way.
 
Danny Puliuca: Ivan Toney all day long
Paul Harris: Never been prolific Goalscorer, not for me
Matt Legg: Scores goals and would be useful, but 6 million for a 29 year old. I’d hope there are better signings
Stephen Cannon: I like Blues to go out and buy a younger striker
Marc Aspery: Could get Dwight Gayle for similar money
Tom Devey: Ivan toney or Gayle
Anthony Bourke: He knows where the goal is
Jez Whitehead: 6 millions alot.... hes got 7 in 10.  Id pay up an go in for gayle
 
@IMRMEZZI: Wells for 6 million i hope someone is having a laugh with that. Never been a proflic goalscorer and at 29 christ that’s alot of money. I’d rather have Vydra from Burnley
 @cdbcfc_: Not sure about Nakhi Wells, been a bit hit and miss over his career.  £6m seems a lot for a 29 year old striker.
@BCFCEVERYTHING: A player of Nahki Wells’ quality is exactly what we need, as well as a new goalkeeper and I think we’re sorted.
 
@JJJenkinson16: Nakhi Wells. Yes please. £6M seems very questionable considering his contract situation but goalscorers cost big money these days.
@mdaly316: In a heartbeat
@Bill_Billingham: Seems expensive but I would take him
@KieranBcfc89: Should have pushed harder for him In the summer Instead of wasting time on Puscas.
@dinoarmenis89: 6 million ? Having a laugh ain’t you ?!
@WadrupR: For 6 mil !!! better options around
@ANDYBCFC84: Not for 6mil with 6 montha to run on jis deal and apparochin 30. Would.prefer that money to go on either the 2 lads from peterboro.
@stuartroberts18: No chance. 1 in 7 last term, nowhere near prolific enough
