
# From 'Bharat' to 'Radhe': Disha Patani's interesting quotes about Salman Khan

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:00:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/from-bharat-to-radhe-disha-patanis-interesting-quotes-about-salman-khan/articleshow/71932187.cms)

After 'Bharat', actress Disha Patani will be seen sharing the screen space will Salman Khan yet again in ‘Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai’ which is slated to release on Eid 2020. ETimes had exclusively reported about Disha being paired opposite Salman in the upcoming cop drama. Reports were also doing the rounds that Salman will play a cop in this out-and-out action flick while Disha will only have a brief role in the film.
Although the actress had a short role in 'Bharat' too, she only wanted an opportunity to work with the Sultan of Bollywood again. Read the following interesting quotes when Disha spoke about Salman, their sizzling onscreen chemistry and also about her worry of not getting to work with the superstar again
Meeting Salman for the first timeDuring an interview with Bollywood Hungama, when Disha was asked about her perception about Salman before meeting the superstar on the sets, she said, "Honestly when I went on the sets of the film I didn't really have any perception about him, I was just really excited to work with Salman Sir because he is a star, he is a superstar. He is so humble so down to earth. I remember how he makes everyone feel comfortable on sets. He gets food from his house and he feeds everyone, 'come khana khao'. He has a tent where he sits so he calls everyone in that tent to eat dinner or lunch."
Romancing the superstar When asked how the actress felt after romancing Salman Khan, Disha shared, “It felt great I mean he's a star and it’s a big opportunity to get a film alongside him, and to be romancing him is a dream come true. He is a great co-star, always helpful and he is always inspiring people you know, the way he works and the way he is so hardworking.”
Disha signs 'Bharat' for Salman Disha had come on board only because of Salman Khan, as she felt that she won't get an opportunity to work with him again. Talking about the same to Mumbai Mirror, Disha had mentioned, "Ali sir (director of Bharat) called me with a role which is more of a special appearance. I heard him out and since the character is that of a trapeze artiste alongside Salman sir, I came on board. Honestly, I don’t know if I will ever get to work with Salman sir again. Even Ali sir told me this while narrating the script."
Age-difference reasonWhen Disha asked about the reason behind not getting a chance to work with Salman again, she said, "Obviously because of the age difference between us. In 'Bharat', it is acceptable because that portion shows Salman sir in his 20s and 30s so, it was an immediate yes. He is a wonderful human being and very hard-working. I got to learn a lot from him. That aside, Bharat is special because I had never done a film set in a different era."
Salman's reaction to Disha's age difference quote While Disha felt she won’t get an opportunity to work with Salman again, the actor thought otherwise. When ETimes informed the superstar about Disha’s recent confession, he responded saying, “Why? What age difference she is saying? I’m doing a film with a 17-year-old now (He was talking Alia Bhatt, they were supposed to be a part of Sanjay Leela Bhansali's 'Inshallah').” It seemed like Salman doesn’t feel the same like Disha Patani and if given a chance, he would like to work with her again in future.
