
# Pharma Giant Fails To Mention -- For 18 Years -- That US Government Helped Fund A Key Patent Used In Drug That Has Generated $53 Billion In Sales So Far

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Glyn Moody**

Original: [Techdirt](https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20191101/08414243305/pharma-giant-fails-to-mention-18-years-that-us-government-helped-fund-key-patent-used-drug-that-has-generated-53-billion-sales.shtml)

It's no secret that drug prices are often high, and continue to rise -- by 32% in the past five years according to one analysis. It's only natural that many should be willing to pay even exorbitant amounts for drugs. If there is the hope of a cure, or at least of some relief from pain and symptoms, for themselves or their family, most people would probably put that above money.
It's less obvious why drug prices are so high in the first place. The standard response from the pharma industry is that companies need incentives to develop new treatments, and these are typically in the form of the high prices they can charge. Although plausible, it overlooks the important contribution that publicly-funded research makes here. Many new drugs are made possible thanks to ground-breaking early work by academics in universities or institutes, not in companies. That's not something that Big Pharma likes to talk about, as this post from James Love on the Bill of Health blog reminds us:
Gleevec is one of the drug industry's biggest successes. An article on the Nature site explained back in 2008:
That "miracle drug" has meant big money for Novartis. According to the Bill of Health blog post, by the end of 2018, the cumulative sales for Gleevec exceeded $53 billion. Love notes that as an invention that was partially funded by taxpayers, Novartis ought to have made the invention "available to the public on reasonable terms". That would presumably have translated to a lower price, and possibly to more people taking the drug, and more lives being saved. Those didn't happen, because Novartis didn't acknowledge the NIH funding until now, a mere 18 years late. Sadly, this is not an isolated case of forgetfulness, as Love points out in his conclusion:
That's worth bearing in mind the next time Big Pharma tries to justify eye-watering drug prices because of the innovative research required to create them.
Follow me @glynmoody on Twitter, Diaspora, or Mastodon.
