
# Meet Mario Isola, Pirelli’s Mild-Mannered Formula 1 Tire King

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jim Clash**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jimclash/2019/11/06/meet-mario-isola-pirellis-mild-mannered-formula-1-tire-king/)

When you first meet Mario Isola, 50, the head of Formula 1 and Car Racing for Pirelli Tires, you think he’s the most relaxed guy in the world. With a big smile he gestures for you to sit down, have an espresso, maybe some dessert. What you don’t realize is the stress of his job. He is responsible for 55 people on the race track on any given day, and supplies a dozen and a half competitive F1 teams with tires for the entire season. That means 1,800 total tires per race between sets of softs, mediums, hards and rains. Each tire has to be researched, manufactured, shipped, fitted, etc. And they all have to be exactly the same for each team, of course, to be fair. Marco Crola, Chairman and CEO of Pirelli North America, sums up Isola’s talents. “Mario has a unique passion for cars, and he loves F1,” says Crola. “He knows Pirelli deeply, because he has worked many years for the company. But particularly, he has the ability to mix technology with sport, and show. Think about it: You have 20 superstars, and Mario has to make them all happy.”
Indeed. We met up with Isola recently at the Circuit of the Americas track in Austin, Texas, before the American Grand Prix to discuss the intricacies of his job - and his life. Following is Part 1 of edited excerpts from a longer conversation.
Jim Clash: We set a new track record here qualifying. Given the strange weather, were you surprised?
Mario Isola: Yes, we had quite cold conditions, and I was not expecting this result. But we can see the cars are evolving every race, and today it was possible to set a lap record. We have seen a lot of lap records this year, as well as last year. When we moved from the old tire sizes in 2016 to the new ones and new aero packages in 2017, the cars became a lot quicker. That is good, but obviously we have to design tires that are able to resist this new kind of stress.
Clash: Talk a bit about how bids against other tire manufacturers work for an exclusive F1 tire contract.
Isola: The bid is something quite new. Until 2006, F1 was in open competition with different tire manufacturers. The first real contract was in 2008, and Bridgestone won that bid, for three years. We replaced Bridgestone in 2011. The bid is organized in a way that when the FIA asks, you have to reply with information on your ability to make a tire for F1, your experience in motorsports and so on. The second part of the process is a commercial agreement with the promoter. And then there is a final decision by the FIA and the promoter together. We are the sole F1 tire supplier for another four years, from 2020 to 2023.
Clash: What does America need to do to make F1 as popular here as it is around the world?
Isola: That’s a really good question because I know you have IndyCar and NASCAR, two very popular series, here. I think that Formula 1 is a great Championship, the most famous in the world. The fact that now we have a race in the U.S. in Austin, and in the future possibly more than one, is a good way to show people what F1 is. Sometimes it is not easy to explain. It is better to see it. For the future in F1, there are a lot of projects in the works to make the series easier to understand, with a better show, more action on the track. This is a natural way to have more American fans. We also need an American driver. When you have a driver from your country, it's a lot easier to have more spectators, more fun. When I was young, we had 12 Italian drivers in the Championship. I can make another parallel with motorsports, the MotoGP. We had Valentino Rossi. When he was the star in MotoGP, everybody in Italy had a motorbike! You need a local hero, for sure. We need drivers from different countries to have a real worldwide Championship.
Clash: You drive ambulances in your spare time. How did you get started?
Isola: Some friends in Milan pushed me to do it. In Italy, it is possible to become a volunteer in an ambulance. You have to follow training and pass some exams, but then you are authorized to stay on as part of the team. In the beginning. I was not really in favor of doing it, but I tried. Then I realized if I did the training and stopped, it was useless. So I started 31 years ago, and I’ve enjoyed it ever since. You get to understand something different from your normal life, see different situations. In the last 15 years, I also decided to get together with other people to create specific training for ambulance drivers in and around Milan. We’ve trained more than 5,000 drivers and 100 instructors so far, and the project is going quite well. It takes a lot of time, but it’s worthwhile and I will continue to do it.
Clash: What’s more stressful, driving a race car, like you did when you were younger, or driving an ambulance?
Isola: Those are different types of stresses. Probably I like to be stressed, because my job now is stressful [laughs]. But yes, I have been a motorsports fan since I was 11. I started with go-karts, for 10 years. I did some rallies afterwards. I used to be a driving instructor, too, though unfortunately I don’t have a lot of free time now. But I still enjoy driving, and try to use my experience to teach people when I can.
(Editor’s Note: In Part 2 of this interview series, Mario Isola discusses how he deals with fear, how he maintains fairness among the F1 teams he supplies tires to, what Lewis Hamilton is really like, funny anecdotes from his days on the road and more. Stay tuned to the Forbes Lifestyle channel.) 
