
# Interpol alert led to the arrest of two Bangladesh nationals

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Praveen Kumar**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/interpol-alert-led-to-the-arrest-of-two-bangladesh-nationals/articleshow/71945667.cms)

An alert from Interpol led to the arrest of two Bangladeshi nationals, who had been staying illegally on the outskirts of the city on Saturday. The woman and man were arrested from a dilapidated building in a eucalyptus grove at Singena Agrahara in Sarjapura around 9.30 am. The woman was allegedly the victim of a human trafficking racket and a case in this regard was registered in Dhaka. The authorities found out that the man with whom she was found on the outskirts of Bengaluru was the accused in the case. The police have been making efforts for the last six to seven months to arrest the duo. The process to deport them is on. The two have been identified as Mohammed Russel Fakir, 27, and Ayesha Begum, 20. The authorities managed to locate Fakir’s whereabouts after he contacted his hometown using his mobile phone. Following this, the Interpol sent a request to the state police to arrest the accused. “A search was on for the accused for the last few months. They managed to escape twice and kept changing their hideouts. Fakir had allegedly promised Begum a job in India and had illegally entered the country. After their arrest, the deputy liaison officer of Interpol at the CID office on Palace Road was informed,” said an officer. It is not clear since when the two have been staying on the outskirts of the city. The woman is said to have been afraid to approach the police against Fakir as her stay was illegal here. Both Fakir and Begum are married and have deserted their spouses. The police are trying to ascertain if the two had managed to obtain Aadhaar cards, voter IDs or any other government documents. Both of them were engaged in menial jobs in and around Sarjapura.
