
# Real IRA founder Michael McKevitt critically ill in hospital

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **ALLISON MORRIS**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/republicofirelandnews/2019/11/06/news/real-ira-founder-michael-mckevitt-critically-ill-in-hospital-1757647/)

FORMER Real IRA leader Michael McKevitt is reported to be critically ill in a Dublin hospital.
Earlier this year a court was told that the Co Louth republican was terminally ill with cancer.
A Provisional IRA 'quartermaster', he walked way from the organisation in 1997 following a meeting in Donegal during which he was outspoken about its ceasefire and the political direction in which it was heading.
McKevitt (70) is thought to have retained large quantities of IRA weapons that he refused to hand over for decommissioning and, along with a number of other, mainly border-based hardliners, went on to form the dissident republican RIRA.
Married to Bernadette Sands McKevitt, a sister of IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands, he lived in Blackrock, Co Louth.
After the Real IRA's 1998 Omagh bombing, which claimed 29 lives including a woman pregnant with twins, support for the continuation of armed republicanism plummeted.
McKevitt was convicted in 2003 of membership of an illegal organisation and directing terrorism between August 1999 and October 2000.
He denied involvement in the Omagh atrocity but in 2009 was found liable along with three other men by a civil court in a case taken by victims' relatives.
He was released from prison in 2016 after the parole board was told of his failing health.
Earlier this year, in a case arising out of a failure to pay damages, relatives brought proceedings before the High Court in Dublin seeking to have McKevitt adjudicated bankrupt.
He did not appear but the court was told he had no assets, had terminal cancer and his only source of income was the state pension.
One of the last times he was photographed publicly was in January last year at the funeral of his mother-in-law Rosaleen Sands in Co Louth.
