
# Meghan McCain confronts Trump Jr.: 'You and your family have hurt a lot of people'

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:01:53+00:00**

Author: **Sam Dorman**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/meghan-mccain-trump-jr-family)

Donald Trump Jr. defended his kin after "View" co-host Meghan McCain suggested the First Family is responsible for the lack of "character" in American politics.
The incident was one of many fiery exchanges on Thursday's episode of the ABC show, where Trump clashed with the liberal hosts, including Whoopi Goldberg and Joy Behar. But with McCain, the daughter of the late anti-Trump Republican Sen. John McCain, and the show's conservative, on the attack, Trump had no respite from criticism.
"A lot of Americans in politics miss character and a lot of people miss the soul of this country. You and your family have hurt a lot of people and put a lot of people through a lot of pain ... Does all of this make you feel good?"  McCain asked Trump on Thursday's show.
McCain specifically pointed to the Khans, a gold star family who criticized then-candidate Donald Trump during the 2016 election.
"I don't think any of that makes me feel good," Trump Jr. said, "but I do think that we got into this because we want to do what's right for America. My father has been working tirelessly to bring back the American dream."

        
          DONALD TRUMP JR. DEFENDS HIMSELF FROM ACCUSATIONS IT IS HYPOCRITICAL OF HIM TO CITE NEPOTISM IN HUNTER BIDEN CRITICISMS
        
      
He added that his father brought jobs back to the United States and drastically lowered unemployment numbers for African Americans. Co-host Whoopi Goldberg balked at that claim, saying that it wasn't "fact."
