
# Last-minute change of heart that saved Declan Donnelly and Ant McPartlin's friendship

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:16:46+00:00**

Author: **Frances Kindon**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/last-minute-change-heart-saved-20822723)

They're one of the most enduring double acts on TV, but the events of Sunday, March 18, 2018 very nearly signalled the end for Ant McPartlin and Declan Donnelly.
Ant, 43, was convicted of drink driving after a three car smash in west London left a little girl needing hospital treatment.
He immediately stepped down from his work commitments - including the remaining episodes of Saturday Night Takeaway - and headed to rehab for a second time to tackle "alcohol and emotional" issues.
And Dec, 44 - who had no idea about the extent of his friend's demons - has admitted he was so "hurt" and "angry" that he feared he'd "lost" his friend for good.
 
“It has been a tough couple of years and it has tested the bond we have shared since we were 13 years old," he says in their new two-part documentary, Ant & Dec’s DNA Journey.
"I was incredibly angry at the start, so angry. Disappointed that he didn't ever come to me and say 'I am struggling, I need you' because that is what I would do if the shoe was on the other foot. And he never came to me and that hurt me a lot," he said.
The programme was filmed over two years but had to be paused mid way through for Ant's recovery.
And at that point, Dec feared the career they'd worked so hard for was in tatters.
 
Suzuki withdrew Saturday Night Takeaway’s £20million sponsorship deal and Dec was left to front the remainder of the series alone for the first time ever. The crowd gave him a standing ovation.
Holly Willoughby was drafted in to cover for Ant on I’m A Celebrity, proving to be a huge hit and drawing in record-breaking ratings.
Ant couldn’t bear to watch and instead flew to Abu Dhabi with girlfriend Anne-Marie Corbett and her daughters.
And assessing the situation, Dec says he was forced to contemplate moving forward without his sidekick.
"There was a point where I thought that that was it. There were times where I wasn't sure it was going to survive. Times where you didn't know it needed to survive or you wanted it to survive," he continued.
“All the while he was away I wasn't sure where his head was at or if he was going to say 'none of this is for me'.
"I didn't know what he wanted to do and for the first time in 30 years I had to think about what I was going to do and if I was going to go out on my own. The thought of that filled me with fear."
Dec was so destabilised that he sought counselling. While for Ant, work had to be pushed to the back of his mind while he devoted himself to his recovery.
On top of that, he feared his reputation was shot and that the public had "had enough" of him.
“I thought I wouldn't be allowed to do what I love anymore which was a very sad affair," Ant said.
But just when it looked as though the end had come, Dec's fury suddenly abated and a selfless change of heart helped him put his own feelings aside.
Speaking of his anger, he said: “Ultimately you realise all those feeling are a bit selfish because they are all about you and how about what he was going through and the unhappiness he felt and how he must have felt to be in that situation, and that is when I became really sad and really sympathetic.
"Because to be in those depths of despair, he must have been so unhappy. And that is where ultimately the care and compassion you have for that person overrides everything and you just want them to get better and get support for them."
Ant did get better and returned to screens at the start of the year to host Britain's Got Talent with Dec.
Despite his fears, audiences welcomed him back and today they fly out to Australia to make a much-anticipated return to the I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here jungle.
And Ant said that although their friendship has been "tested", they have come "through the other side".
“Dec has been fantastic, he is a very kind man who has been supportive of me," he said.
“Dec means the world to me, his wellbeing, his health.
“Being back at work is a bonus, being back with my best friend. I know how lucky I am.”

        * Ant & Dec's DNA Journey airs Sunday, November 10 and Monday, November 11 at 9pm on ITV
      
