
# PAS backs MCA in Tanjung Piai by-election, indicates a need for a non-Muslim party in multiracial setting

Published at: **2019-11-04T03:42:45+00:00**

Author: **BY SOO WERN JUN**

Original: [Malaymail](https://www.malaymail.com/news/malaysia/2019/11/04/pas-backs-mca-in-tanjung-piai-by-election-indicates-a-need-for-a-non-muslim/1806668)

KUALA LUMPUR, Nov 4 — Opposition Islamist party PAS has voiced its support for MCA in the Tanjong Piai by-election, indicating a need for a non-Muslim extremist party in the country’s multiracial community setting.
Party president Datuk Seri Abdul Hadi Awang said, however, this formula may change depending on the scenario and strategies to secure a bigger “national consensus” or Muafakat Nasional, win.
“The Tanjong Piai by-election is a symbol of the ‘taawun’ concept (political cooperation) seen as a change made on a national level, and not just based on the parliamentary seat alone,” he said in a statement this morning.
Abdul Hadi added that since British colonial times, it has constantly evaluated politics based on Islamic reflection.
He also said that PAS stood with Umno in demanding independence as well as during the struggle against communism.
“PAS accepts the concept of Islam as the federal religion in the Federal Constitution and other religious freedoms, but the meaning of Islam is based on the interpretation of the word Al-Din in the Quranic language, not ‘religion’ in English.
“PAS opposes the concept of jus soli (citizenship open to immigrants), but retains the privileges of the Malays and Bumiputera,” he said.
While the party previously stood with the now-defunct Pakatan Rakyat, PAS is not with those who seek pluralism or want to emulate Muslim parties abroad that do not share the same approach and democracy as Malaysia, as democracy here does not ban Islamic parties, he said.
“Eventually, PAS was ousted and they set up Parti Amanah Negara, in accordance with that approach.”
Abdul Hadi reiterated that PAS insists that only Islam is the highest among the highest, and accepts the right to freedom of religion without obstructing non-Muslims from practising their own religions.
He added that PAS rejects the concept that all religions are the same.
In a statement last week, PAS voiced its support for MCA’s Datuk Seri Wee Jeck Seng as Barisan Nasional’s (BN) candidate for the coming Tanjong Piai by-election on November 16.
In the statement, Datuk Takiyuddin Hassan added that the PAS’ support for BN was in line with the Umno-PAS cooperation charter.
