
# Premier League confirm why Son Heung-min was sent off following Andre Gomes injury

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:59:19+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/premier-league-confirm-son-heung-20803834)

The Premier League have confirmed that Son Heung-min was sent off for endangering Andre Gomes' safety during Tottenham's draw with Everton .
Toffees midfielder Gomes suffered a horrific leg injury after Son had tackled him and he collided with Serge Aurier.
Gomes was taken off on a stretcher by medical staff and immediately taken to hospital in an ambulance after a number of minutes treatment.
Referee Martin Atkinson originally handed the South Korean a yellow card for a trip but quickly upgraded his decision to a red card after seeing the extent of the damage to Gomes.
There was also an emotional response from Son, who was left in tears on the pitch, and players from both teams which might have assisted Atkinson's decision making.
It was not sent to VAR to have a look.
The Premier League explained what happened in a statement: "The red card for Son was for endangering the safety of a player which happened as a consequence of his initial challenge."
Spurs midfielder Dele Alli, who had given his side the lead, gave his reaction to the incident to Sky Sports after the match.
"Didn’t want to look too much at what happened. I want to send best wishes.
"Son is devastated and in tears. It’s not his fault. Son is one of nicest people you’ve ever met. He can’t even lift his head up, he’s crying so much.
"The injury does play on your mind but you have to stay professional.
"We switched off for a second and they scored."
Cenk Tosun earned Everton a late point to keep them 17th, while Spurs remain in the bottom half of the table in 11th.
