
# Barnsley 2-2 Bristol City: Cauley Woodrow gives Tykes last-gasp draw

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:25:52+00:00**

Author: **Brendon Mitchell**

Original: [BBC Sport](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/50177704)


        Cauley Woodrow scored with the final kick of the game as struggling Barnsley came from 2-0 down to draw with promotion hopefuls Bristol City.
      
Woodrow scrambled in from close range deep into stoppage time to lift the Tykes off the bottom of the Championship table and prevent City from moving up to second.
Wales defender Ashley Williams put the Robins in front shortly before half-time, heading Niclas Eliasson's free-kick in at the far post completely unmarked.
Andreas Weimann then doubled Bristol City's lead with 20 minutes remaining when he guided another wicked Eliasson set-piece delivery into the bottom corner.
But Aapo Halme's excellent header gave the hosts late hope and the Tykes, still winless since the opening weekend of the season, snatched a deserved late draw through Woodrow's toe-poked finish.
It was Barnsley's third stalemate in four games under caretaker boss Adam Murray, whose side again showed signs of improvement and were good value for a point on the overall balance of play.
They were unfortunate to find themselves behind in the first half, with Robins goalkeeper Daniel Bentley making two superb saves - first tipping Mallik Wilks' curler around the post and then brilliantly diverting Conor Chaplin's snap shot onto the woodwork.
Barnsley mustered more than 20 attempts on goal across the entire game and, but for two lapses of concentration at set-plays, may well have won the match.
As it is, the Oakwell outfit are now 15 games without a victory in all competitions and on their longest winless run since 1959.
Bristol City's misery was compounded by the loss of captain Josh Brownhill in the first half, who added to their long list of injury woes by limping off with what was later revealed to be a back spasm.
They are already without first-team players such as Jay Dasilva, Adam Nagy and Benik Afobe, although Friday's game did mark the return of club-record signing Tomas Kalas at centre-half.

        Barnsley caretaker manager Adam Murray told BBC Radio Sheffield:
      
"There's a little bit of anger and frustration but to nick a point is always nice.
"At points during the game we could have made more of the chances we had.
"But overall there's a sense of pride at the passion we've shown and it put a lump in my throat at the end of the game."

        Bristol City head coach Lee Johnson told BBC Radio Bristol:
      
"I'm disappointed with the lads today for the first time this season - we had 45 seconds to see out for the win.
"We should have had enough at 2-0 up to see the game out.
"The crowd had completely gone at 2-0 but we allowed them a way back into the game."
Referee:Jarred GillettAttendance:12,178
Home TeamBarnsleyAway TeamBristol CityPossessionHome55%Away45%ShotsHome24Away9Shots on TargetHome6Away3CornersHome10Away6FoulsHome9Away11
Posted at
Match ends, Barnsley 2, Bristol City 2.
Posted at 90'+5'
Second Half ends, Barnsley 2, Bristol City 2.
Posted at 90'+4'
Goal! Barnsley 2, Bristol City 2. Cauley Woodrow (Barnsley) right footed shot from very close range to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Patrick Schmidt.
Posted at 90'+4'
Attempt blocked. Patrick Schmidt (Barnsley) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Posted at 90'+2'
Attempt missed. Bambo Diaby (Barnsley) header from very close range is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Alex Mowatt with a cross following a corner.
Posted at 90'+2'
Corner, Barnsley. Conceded by Pedro Pereira.
Posted at 90'+1'
Attempt saved. Cauley Woodrow (Barnsley) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Posted at 89'
Corner, Barnsley. Conceded by Han-Noah Massengo.
Posted at 88'
Offside, Bristol City. Tommy Rowe tries a through ball, but Antoine Semenyo is caught offside.
Posted at 87'
Attempt blocked. Cauley Woodrow (Barnsley) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Patrick Schmidt.
Posted at 84'
Luke Thomas (Barnsley) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Posted at 83'
Foul by Luke Thomas (Barnsley).
Posted at 83'
Han-Noah Massengo (Bristol City) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Posted at 81'
Substitution, Barnsley. Elliot Simoes replaces Jacob Brown.
Posted at 81'
Attempt blocked. Antoine Semenyo (Bristol City) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Posted at 80'
Attempt blocked. Aapo Halme (Barnsley) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Jacob Brown.
Posted at 79'
Offside, Bristol City. Nathan Baker tries a through ball, but Han-Noah Massengo is caught offside.
Posted at 77'
Goal! Barnsley 1, Bristol City 2. Aapo Halme (Barnsley) header from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Alex Mowatt with a cross following a corner.
Posted at 77'
Corner, Barnsley. Conceded by Tomas Kalas.
Posted at 77'
Attempt blocked. Cauley Woodrow (Barnsley) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Toby Sibbick.
Posted at 75'
Attempt missed. Cauley Woodrow (Barnsley) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Toby Sibbick.
Posted at 73'
Substitution, Barnsley. Patrick Schmidt replaces Conor Chaplin.
Posted at 73'
Substitution, Bristol City. Antoine Semenyo replaces Marley Watkins.
Posted at 72'
Substitution, Bristol City. Nathan Baker replaces Taylor Moore.
Posted at 71'
Goal! Barnsley 0, Bristol City 2. Andreas Weimann (Bristol City) header from the centre of the box to the top left corner. Assisted by Niclas Eliasson with a cross following a corner.
Posted at 70'
Corner, Bristol City. Conceded by Aapo Halme.
Posted at 69'
Attempt missed. Callum O'Dowda (Bristol City) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right.
Posted at 68'
Corner, Barnsley. Conceded by Ashley Williams.
Posted at 67'
Corner, Barnsley. Conceded by Ashley Williams.
Posted at 65'
Attempt missed. Alex Mowatt (Barnsley) left footed shot from outside the box is too high.
Posted at 65'
Attempt blocked. Conor Chaplin (Barnsley) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Luke Thomas.
Posted at 64'
Jacob Brown (Barnsley) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 64'
Foul by Taylor Moore (Bristol City).
Posted at 59'
Luke Thomas (Barnsley) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Posted at 59'
Foul by Pedro Pereira (Bristol City).
Posted at 59'
Attempt blocked. Luke Thomas (Barnsley) left footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked.
Posted at 58'
Substitution, Barnsley. Luke Thomas replaces Mallik Wilks.
Posted at 55'
Attempt missed. Bambo Diaby (Barnsley) right footed shot from more than 35 yards is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Aapo Halme.
Posted at 54'
Corner, Bristol City. Conceded by Jacob Brown.
Posted at 53'
Foul by Dimitri Kevin Cavaré (Barnsley).
Show more updatesgoal
