
# Attention Dabbers, G Pen Connect Has The E-Nail Solution

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Warren Bobrow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/warrenbobrow/2019/11/01/attention-dabbers-g-pen-connect-has-the-e-nail-solution/)

Attention Dabbers! What would you do if I offered a solution to your pesky eNail problems? Ok, if you were like me, please eskew the dangerous blow torch and ditch your other possibly non-functional electronics. What I suggest uses your own expensive borosilicate dab rig glass right now. No need to bring in even more glass because G Pen eNail makes some valid suggestions. Higher Standards, already a fine producer of quality borosilicate (high temperature) cannabis/rig glass has partnered with the hardware manufacturer G Pen to make a hybrid device that absolutely begs your attention. I’m not a huge dabber by rule. Anyone who knows me would agree. I find the art of dabbing to be quite overwhelming to my inner self. My particular affliction, glaucoma, does benefit by dabbing, so further experimentation may well be good thing for me, so please stay tuned on that one.
As I’ve written in the past, I’m not really a bong kind of guy either, they put too much smoke into my lungs. I much prefer the old-fashioned method of rolling a joint. I have a robust collection of pipes but they mostly collect dust rather than cannabis driven memories these days. If I should want to dab it’s going to have to be the only thing that I do that day. Dabbing affects me differently and this in itself is difficult to explain to the layperson. But bear with me for a moment, the G Pen Connect is really worth your attention. I saw it in use out in Denver and I had to own one now that the finest concentrates in the world have made it to my desk.
(From the G Pen Website)
- 5 second heat up time
- 15 second extended draw mode or push to activate
- Glass to glass connection
- Connects to any size rig; 10mm, 14mm, 18mm (male fittings only)
- 10mm and 18mm male attachment options are available
- Ceramic heating element for clean flavorful hits
- Spring loaded carb release
- Completely free of wires and cords
- Powerful 850maH battery
- Magnetic battery connection for easy detachment
- Micro USB charging with passthrough technology
- 3 Voltage Outputs (Low: 3.1V, Medium: 3.6V, High: 4.1V)
- Auto heat for experienced users
- Each kit comes in a durable, hard-case zipper pouch made of hemp for increased portability
- 1 year warranty on G Pen Connect Battery
This is my quandary. I actually am having fun doing this research. The concentrates truly capture the terroir of the individual cannabis strains. Dabbing on this level is truly nerd stuff. I’m sure there is a deeper meaning to the experience, I want to find the time to discover it. Right now when I dab, the experience can be quite foreboding if I take too much. My professional suggestion is to start really slowly and work up from there. No need to be a hero like the ones you see on the interwebs. There is no need to inhale a gram or more of concentrate. It’s not going to make you wealthier!
Think of your future self when you use a dab rig. Sure you are going to get high. Really high. And if you have a medical affliction you don’t need to use too much to have a good effect. Dabbing is the concentrated version of our plant. Not everyone agrees with it. I’m not here to debate the how’s and why’s of dabbing. That is for a younger person to “hash” out. My generation in the 1960’s would have been very curious with the G Pen Connect as I still can remember my first bong. Bought at Wonderland in Philadelphia back when I was a Morristown-Beard student in the 1970’s.
The G Pen Connect eNail offers a safe and fast alternative to the dangerous and potentially burn inducing blow torch method. Your lungs will thank you and you’ll still get plenty stoned.
What I like most about this item is that it connects easily to just about any dab rig and offers complete flexibility for your sesh.
Why should you buy one? I’m pretty particular about technology. My watch doesn’t even have a battery in it. I’d rather do things the slow way instead of the fast way. It’s up to you when it’s time to shell out your hard-earned money. All I can do is suggest that this “fit into the palm of your hand” device works for me. It’s worth it and I like what I bought. I like the warranty too. Most don’t have that.
Dabbing is really popular out in the western states where it has been destigmatized. If you need to use a virtually pocket sized dab rig I hope you consider the G Pen Connect because it makes my life really efficient and succinct. Worth the money.
I enjoyed some Kush Masters Live Rosin in my micro-dab. This is truly a yummy, well-made concentrate.
Cheers! wb
