
# Govt says additional security deployed in Marsabit following Tuesday attack

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:33:52+00:00**

Author: **Mary Thuo**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/govt-says-additional-security-deployed-in-marsabit-following-tuesday-attack/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 7 – The government has committed to provide adequate security to residents of Marsabit county, following Tuesday’s attack that left 10 people dead.
      
Two police officers were among those killed on Tuesday when bandits staged two separate attack.
ADVERTISEMENT
The first attack occurred in Kukuto area where three people were killed when armed bandits ambushed their vehicle.
In the second attacks, 7 other people including two police officers were killed in Jaldesa.
National Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna told the press on Thursday a team of law enforcers has since been deployed in the troubled area, in a bid to restore normalcy.
“As a government we are concerned about such incidents, as we speak a team has been dispatched to determine status of the attack,” he said.
He said the authorities are yet to establish what prompted the attack.
This is the latest in a series of killings pitting clans in the expansive county bordering Ethiopia.
The killers targeted national government administrators setting a chief ablaze, according to police.
Marasbit Governor Mohamud Ali led a host of local leaders in expressing their disappointment on the loss of lives.
“We cannot keep crying every day, we cannot keep burying people months after months,” Ali said.
The leaders urged the government to address rampant insecurity in the region.
Marasbit County Commander Steve Oloo also called for peace among warring factions.
“An eye for an eye is an old mentality,” he said.
Post Views: 457
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
