
# Climate Assembly launched to ease UK towards net-zero emissions target by 2050

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Ben Glaze, https://www.facebook.com/MirrorPolitics**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/climate-assembly-launched-ease-uk-20789509)

Tens of thousands of voters will be invited to help draw up plans for slashing Britain’s carbon emissions.
Some 30,000 invitations asking people to sign-up for Climate Assembly UK will land on doormats from Wednesday.
The drive will look at how Britain can hit its target of net-zero emissions by 2050 - and what the public can do to slash out put of greenhouse gases.
The Assembly is the brainchild of six House of Commons Select Committees.
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee chairwoman Rachel Reeves said: “Adopting the net-zero target was a major milestone for the UK, reflecting the strong cross-party support for action on climate change.
“We now need to set out a clear roadmap for the actions to achieve net-zero.
“It’s very clear that we will all need to play a part in meeting this target and that we all share a responsibility to future generations to do so.
“Finding solutions which are equitable and have public support will be crucial.
“Parliament needs to work with the people and with Government to address the challenge of climate change.”
The 30,000 addresses were chosen randomly and just 110 people will be selected to take part in Climate Assembly UK.
It will run over four weekends between late January and mid-March in Birmingham.
They will receive £600 each, plus travel and accommodation expenses.
Key themes for debate include how people travel, what they buy and household energy use.
Findings will be presented to the six select committees.
Tory MP Mel Stride, who chairs the Treasury Committee, said: “Public concern around climate change is as high as it has ever been and this is a chance for people from all parts of society to come together to decide how we as a country can best meet our net-zero emissions target.
“Net-zero is an opportunity, therefore, for people to not just explore ways in which the UK can end its contribution to climate change, but also create a cleaner, healthier environment as well as benefit from the opportunities around creating a low-carbon economy.”
Meanwhile, the Treasury today launches a review into how the UK can maximise economic growth as it moves to a green economy.
Chancellor Sajid Javid said: “The UK is leading the way on tackling climate change as the first major economy to legislate for net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
“We must all play a part in protecting the planet for future generations.
“This review is a vital next step in delivering that commitment, ensuring that we can end our contribution to global warming, while supporting growth and balancing costs, to avoid placing unfair burdens on families or businesses.”
ENDS
