
# Troon boss Jonathan Baillie fearing sack after Rossvale defeat

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:32:10+00:00**

Author: **Kilmarnock Standard, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/kilmarnock-standard/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/troon-boss-jonathan-baillie-fearing-20806992)

Troon boss Jonathan Baillie says he fears the sack after they lost again in the league. 
The Seasiders only have two wins in league football this season and haven't yet won a game away from home.
Another loss to newly promoted Rossvale extended that run, with Baillie saying he'd understand if the Portland Park board pulled the trap door. 
"Absolutely there's worry, we are getting beat every week. 
"We've lost three on the spin in the league... I've got to be under pressure we are down at the bottom of the table.
"If the club feel the need to make a change then that's fine, I'm not going to have any complaints, the results speak for themselves."
After a lacklustre first-half the game sprung to life in the second when the seagulls had a goal ruled out.
 
John Gemmell headed Ryan Stevenson's corner in, however it was judged as offside.
A decision Baillie was bemused with, saying everyone in the ground thought Gemmell was onside.
"The linesman was the only person in the whole ground that thought he was offside.
"None of their players appealed, they all were saying he's on a mile and so was the manager." 
Minutes after that chance Troon went down to 10 men, new signing from Linlithgow Rose Ross Barbour seeing his second yellow. 
It went from bad to worse for Troon when Del McNab tucked in a rebound after Scott Johnstone spilled a shot.  
The result extends ‘Vale’s winning streak to six consecutive games, four of those coming in the league and the other two in the Scottish Junior Cup.
 
New Rossvale boss David Gormley has an excellent record winning all his games since taking over in September following the departure of Gordon Moffat to Clydebank.
However, despite their fantastic form he says their goal is still just to stay up.
"When I took over we were bottom of the league, it was a hard task but the aspiration was to stay in the league.
“If we stay in the league you are playing against the likes of Pollok, Auchinleck and Kilwinning the big teams who you want to be playing against.
"So our focus is still the league and any type of cup run would be good.”
