
# Ed Woodward skipped Man Utd's defeat to Bournemouth for Rugby World Cup final

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:35:07+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/ed-woodward-skipped-man-utds-20813698)

If you were expecting the closing stages of Manchester United's 1-0 defeat to Bournemouth on Saturday to feature shots of Ed Woodward's pained expressions, then there's a good reason why you were left disappointed.
The United executive vice-chairman was some 6,000 miles away.
A goal from former Red Devils youngster Josh King was enough for the Cherries to inflict what is already a fourth Premier League defeat of the season on United, who are now down in 10th place in the table.
Shots of Woodward in the stands have become commonplace during United matches of late, especially when Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's side have suffered another damaging result.
Back in September the cameras appeared to catch Woodward issuing a telling off to United defender Phil Jones when he seemed to have mouthed something less than complementary about Solskjaer towards the end of a 2-0 defeat at West Ham , although this was later denied.
He was nowhere to be seen on Saturday though, as he was instead taking in another disappointing defeat in Yokohama.
As per the Mail Online , Woodward and United managing director Richard Arnold had jetted off to Yokohama to watch England's Rugby World Cup final clash against South Africa.
The pair are both huge rugby fans, but they were left disappointed as Eddie Jones' men went down 32-12 to the Springboks, who deservedly became world champions for the third time.
Woodward might have felt as though he was leaving United in good hands after a run of three successive victories in three different competitions, with Partizan Belgrade, Norwich and Chelsea all beaten on the road in the run-up to the south coast visit.
United are back at Old Trafford this week when they host Partizan Belgrade in the Europa League on Thursday.
