
# Still Game wins 'Outstanding Contribution' TV award at Scottish Baftas to thrill Ford Kiernan

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:52:00+00:00**

Author: **Laura Paterson**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/entertainment/celebrity/ford-kiernan-bags-outstanding-award-20805073)

Ford Kiernan says he is “chuffed to bits” after he and his Still Game co-creator Greg Hemphill were awarded the Outstanding Contribution to Television award at the Scottish Baftas on Sunday night.
The long-running sitcom ended this year with a run of live shows at Glasgow’s Hydro more than two decades after curmudgeonly pensioner pals Jack and Victor, played by Ford and Greg, first hit our screens.

        BAFTA Scotland in pictures View gallery
      
Ford said: “It’s been 21 years, it’s been ages – it just means a lot to finally get that sort of recognition at the end.
“We’ve had a couple of Baftas before – oh yes – but we’re chuffed to bits to be picking this up tonight. It’s obviously the work of a whole lot of people.”
Gavin Mitchell, who played Boaby the Barman in the comedy, said: “We’re very chuffed – it’s the icing on our cake after filming the final series and after the Hydro – 51 shows all in all. It feels like the perfect conclusion.
Actor Film: Lorn Macdonald, BeatsActor Television: Alex Ferns, ChernobylActress Film: Jessie Buckley, Wild RoseActress Television: Kelly Macdonald, VictimDirector - Factual: Matt Pinder, Murder CaseDirector - Fiction: Jon S. Baird, Stan & OllieEntertainment: Last CommandersFeatures & Factual Series: Murder CaseFeature Film: Wild RoseShort Film: That Joke Isn't Funny AnymoreSingle Documentary: Real Kashmir FCTelevision Scripted: The CryWriter - Film/TV: Nicole Taylor, Wild Rose
“If anybody deserves it, the boys have earned it. I’m really proud of them and humbled just to be a small cog in the wheel.”
The big winners on the night included Lorn Macdonald, who won Best Film Actor for Beats, Alex Ferns, who bagged Best TV Actor for Chernobyl, Jessie Buckley, who took the Best Film Actress award for Wild Rose and Kelly Macdonald, who won Best TV Actress for Victim.
Among others at the bash were former Corrie actress Helen Flanagan and her Hoops star boyfriend Scott Sinclair.
