
# MP Moinuddin Khan Badal dies at 67

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:17:00+00:00**

Author: **bdnews24.com**

Original: [Bdnews24](https://bdnews24.com/politics/2019/11/07/mp-moinuddin-khan-badal-dies-at-67)


        Moinuddin Khan Badal, a member of parliament and leftist leader from Chattogram, has died at the age of 67 during treatment in a hospital in India, his family says.
      
Badal was suffering from ill health after a stroke last year, his brother Moniruddin Khan said on Thursday.
The politician was last admitted to Narayana Institute of Cardiac Sciences in India’s Bengaluru.
A three-time MP from the Chattogram-8 (Chandgaon-Boalkhali) seat, Badal was a member of the standing committee on liberation war affairs in the 11 national parliament.
President Abdul Hamid has expressed condolences over the death of Badal.
“The country has lost a fearless freedom fighter, a politician with an illustrious career and an experienced parliamentarian with the passing of Moinuddin Khan Badal,” Deputy Speaker Md Fazle Rabbi said.
Badal was born on Feb 21, 1952 in Sarowatali village in Chattogram's Boalkhali Upazila to Ahmadullah Khan and Zatuma Khatun.
Badal, a member of the ‘nucleus’ of Chhatra League in the 60s, received training in India before joining the Liberation War in 1971.
He joined the leftist stream of politics after independence by joining Jatiya Samajtantrik Dal or JSD. He was later imprisoned during the rule of military strongman HM Ershad.JSD leader Badal won the Boalkhali-Chandgaon seat in Chattogram in the 2008 elections under the banner of the Awami League-led Grand Alliance, ending the BNP's dominance in the constituency.Badal, a skilled parliamentarian known for his strong statements on different national issues, had won the parliamentary election in 2014 and 2018 too. He also played a role in the formation of the Awami League-led 14-party coalition.“Badal will always be remembered for the courageous role he played during the struggle for Bengali nationalism in the 60s, the Liberation War and also during the progressive, democratic movement against the autocratic military rule and communalism,” JSD President Hasanul Huq Inu and General Secretary Shirin Akhter said in a joint statementHe leaves behind is survived by his wife and four children.
