
# Samsung Galaxy S11 Camera Codename Hints At 5x Optical Zoom

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:49:26+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/samsung-galaxy-s11-camera-codename-hints-at-5x-optical-zoom.html)

According to information provided by GalaxyClub, the Galaxy S11 camera is codenamed 'Hubble'. This more or less confirms that the device will include a periscope-style camera, with great zooming capabilities.
This has been rumored for quite some time now, in case you missed it. In case you're unaware of the meaning behind the word 'Hubble', well, it refers to the Hubble Space Telescope.
That satellite aka space telescope is essentially a really powerful telescope camera. It was named after the American astronomer called Edwin Hubble.
Advertisement
If this is not a dead giveaway of the crazy zoom capabilities we're about to witness, nothing is. Based on rumors, the Galaxy S11 will include 5x optical zoom, though that's probably not all.
Based on what we've seen in the past when it comes to periscope camera systems, hybrid zoom could be on the way as well. The Galaxy S11 may offer 10x or 15x hybrid zoom, on top of 5x optical zoom.
What about digital zoom? Well, some phones are able to utilize 50x digital zoom thanks to such camera systems, the Huawei P30 Pro is a good example. So, Samsung may include something similar in the Galaxy S11.
Advertisement
The Samsung Galaxy S11 is expected to include a 108-megapixel camera sensor on the back, as its main one. That is according to a recent rumor that surfaced.
If that rumor is to be believed, Samsung will not utilize the company's existing ISOCELL Bright HMX sensor. That sensor was developed in collaboration with Xiaomi, and Xiaomi already utilized it on its devices.
The Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro actually launched yesterday with that sensor. Samsung is rumored to improve that sensor, change it up a little bit, or introduce a brand new one. Whatever the case may be, that exact same sensor will not be included in the Galaxy S11.
Advertisement
The Samsung Galaxy S11 is expected to become official in Q2 next year. That applies if Samsung intends to stick to its release cycle, of course. If that ends up being the case, the Galaxy S11 series will be announced in either February or March.
Samsung is, once again, expected to introduce several Galaxy S models. We're expecting to see two or two different variants, similar to this year's models.
All Galaxy S11 devices will probably be made out of metal and glass, just like the Galaxy S11 series. The Galaxy S11 units are also expected to include display camera holes, but smaller ones than the Galaxy S10 units.
Advertisement
