
# Josh Warrington ready to follow Tyson Fury into WWE ahead of SmackDown in Manchester

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:33:09+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/wrestling/josh-warrington-ready-follow-tyson-20833756)

Tyson Fury won't be the only boxing superstar attending WWE’s SmackDown on Friday night - with Josh Warrington also set to be backstage at the Manchester extravaganza.
Fury backed up his trash talk last week by flooring Braun Strowman with a big right hand and winning his WWE debut by count-out at the Crown Jewel event in Saudi Arabia.
The two rivals are set to come face-to-face again when the WWE circus hits Manchester this Friday, with the promotion confirming that Fury will be back in his home town.
And now The Sun has claimed that Leeds boxer Warrington, the undefeated IBF featherweight world champion, will be backstage for the event - and could even make a shock appearance in the ring.
 
He told the publication: “I’m very much looking forward to being at the wrestling this Friday in Manchester.
“I remember growing up watching WWE and I’ll be coming along with my nephew, who is two generations down the line and a huge fan now.
“It’s great to see so many boxers being involved both past and present. Over the years we’ve had Floyd Mayweather and of course we’ve just seen Tyson Fury – who did really well.
“So I’m really looking forward to being a part of it but I’m going to let everyone know now – if anyone starts on me then they’ll be getting a DDT from the Leeds Warrior.
“I might only 5ft 7in, but a kick to the stomach and a DDT and they’ll be out for the count. Let’s have it!”
Fury was expected to be inactive over the next few months to allow deep cuts sustained during September's points win over Otto Wallin to heal ahead of next year's rematch with Deontay Wilder .
But Fury, the lineal heavyweight champion of the world, was tempted back into the ring in a bid to settle his new-found feud with former strongman Strowman.
The pair's dislike for each other started with a ringside row on Smackdown, followed by a mass brawl a few days later on Raw, before Strowman injured Fury's ankle in a surprise training attack last week.
Those incidents fuelled the hatred ahead of their eagerly-anticipated contest, with Fury pledging to knock his opponent out and Strowman insisting the Englishman would "Get These Hands".
And it was Fury who delivered on his words by connecting cleanly with the face of Strowman, who could not make it back into the ring in time before the referee's 10-count ended.
