
# Overwatch 2's New Modes Are Fun, But Play It Too Safe

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Nathan Grayson**

Original: [Kotaku Australia](https://www.kotaku.com.au/2019/11/overwatch-2s-new-modes-are-fun-but-play-it-too-safe/)

Since day one, Overwatch’s existence has been marked by refinement. Balance changes, new heroes, player-made modes, events, role queue, and other additions have indelibly altered the game’s fabric, or at least switched up its stitching. Now it’s getting a sequel, an opportunity for truly foundation-rattling change. So far, however, Overwatch 2 feels like another refinement.
I’ve played demos of Overwatch’s story-based PVE mode and new “Push” PVP mode at BlizzCon, and while I’ve enjoyed my time with both, they don’t particularly feel like anything that couldn’t exist within Overwatch 1's current framework. This makes a degree of sense; the Overwatch team intends on updating the games in tandem, adding new maps, heroes, and other features to both games and allowing Overwatch 1 and 2 players to play together on the same servers. Still, the end result is two modes whose shiny new sheen quickly gives way to an easy familiarity.
Story mode is the most standout new addition. In it, teams are comprised of four heroes—not six—and they progress through linear levels while blasting robots and acquiring items. The level I played took place in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and told the tale of how Lucio slid into his first gig with the heroic Overwatch organisation. It opened with a cut-scene that felt straight out of the first five minutes of an Avengers movie, with heroes teaming up and cracking wise while dispatching overmatched enemies. This scene was elaborately staged, well-choreographed, and had a cool bit where Reinhardt cannon-balled down from a ship with his shield deployed, cackling like a more-loveable-than-average madman. Characters delivered short, punchy lines and were generally charming. I liked it.
