
# Tengku Adnan withdraws strike out application in RM57m income tax suit

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:05:59+00:00**

Author: **Chester Tay**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/tengku-adnan-withdraws-strike-out-application-rm57m-income-tax-suit)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 4): Datuk Seri Tengku Adnan Tengku Mansor has withdrawn his application to strike out a suit against him by the Inland Revenue Board (IRB), seeking RM57.17 million in income tax arrears between 2012 and 2017.
At the KL High Court today, Justice Datuk Azimah Omar ordered the former minister to pay RM2,000 costs to the plaintiff after the defendant withdrew the application.
The defendant decided to withdraw as he intends to wait for the outcome of his stay application, which is scheduled to be heard on Nov 15 this year.
In September this year, the IRB filed the suit against the former Federal Territories Minister, and for the case to be decided via summary judgement.
A summary judgement is where a court decides a case without hearing testimony of witnesses.
On July 24, local media reported that the Malaysian government filed a writ of summons and statement of claim through the IRB in the High Court here naming Tengku Adnan, who is also the former Umno Secretary-General.
The plaintiff claimed that Tengku Adnan still owed income tax for the year of assessment 2012 until the year of assessment 2017 as stated in the Notice of Assessment dated March 15, 2019.
The plaintiff claimed that because Tengku Adnan failed to pay the income tax amount from 2012 to 2017 within 30 days from the date of filing of the Notice of Assessment stipulated under Section 103 of the Income Tax Act 1967, a 10% tax increase was imposed.
The plaintiff said the defendant still failed to pay the entire income tax amount along with the 10% increase within the 60 days stipulated under Section 103, adding that a further 5% tax increase would be imposed on the defendant.
It claimed that the defendant still failed to pay the owed income tax due, including a total increase of RM57.17 million.
Tengku Adnan was represented by Datuk S Satharuban while Bahari Yeow Tien Hong appeared for the IRB.

        See also:IRB applies for Tengku Adnan tax case to be decided through summary judgmentGovt files RM57m suit against Ku Nan for unpaid excess taxes since 2012
      
