
# Payment for Pan Borneo Highway has been delayed for three months by LBU

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:08:12+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/payment-pan-borneo-highway-has-been-delayed-three-months-lbu)

KUCHING (Nov 6): Payment for the Pan Borneo highway project has been delayed by three months by Lebuhraya Borneo Utara (LBU), whose role is as the project delivery partner (PDP), said Minister of Works, Baru Bian.
He said he received a lot of reports on the project being carried out a bit slow and there were some packages that did not seem to work.
“I’m very happy to note that works on progress is ongoing. There is not much problem and they (contractors) do recognise there are some delays.
“The contractors said they are complaining about some delays in getting their claims settled. On the average, three months delay,” he said in a media conference here today.
Baru added that the delay was since July.
“Of course if they haven’t been paid on time, how would the contractors want to proceed and I am very sympathetic with them because it involves a large amount of money."
Baru said currently, the whole project is under LBU while the Ministry of Works would only take over the project in February 2020.
Meanwhile, Baru assured that when the Works Ministry takes over the project in February next year, all payments to the contractors will be made within 30 days.
Baru said he also received a complaint regarding the bad condition of the roads along the alignment of the Pan Borneo and had instructed the contractors to improve the road conditions as well as provide any necessary features for the safety of road users.
“I think the signage and the blinkers at night must be there. Sufficient warning to all road users must be given because it involvs their safety,” he said.
