
# How Competitive Nature Led Former New York Giants Defensive Back Jason Sehorn To Run The New York City Marathon

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Larry Fleisher**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/larryfleisher/2019/11/07/how-competitive-nature-led-former-new-york-giants-defensive-back-jason-sehorn-to-run-the-new-york-city-marathon/)

It started with a conversation that highlighted his competitive nature. That's how former New York Giants defensive back Jason Sehorn wound up becoming among the 53,627 runners to finish the New York City Marathon on Sunday. At some point in March, Sehorn and his wife Meghann Gunderman were discussing marathons. Upon hearing Sehorn felt he could finish a marathon, Gunderman encouraged him to apply and then pointed out he should find a cause to give training and running for the arduous race even more of a purpose.
"I said it for a long time I could run a marathon," Sehorn said in a phone interview Monday before he attended the Cowboys-Giants game. "She knew I could and wanted to force my hand as to me committing it and the way to do it is use my competitive nature against me. "
Once he signed up, Gunderman started informing Sehorn of other NFL players who ran previous marathons. She pointed out Lynn Swann and former teammates Amani Toomer and Tiki Barber.
Swann ran the 1993 New York City Marathon in 4:26:41 and Toomer ran the 2010 race in 4:13:45, a year after retiring from a 13-year career. Barber ran the race for the fifth straight time and finished with a time of 4:18:24.
Upon hearing those times, Sehorn believed he could run the race even quicker, even as a 48-year-old, whose last NFL game was a 2004 playoff game for the then St. Louis Rams against the Carolina Panthers.
But before he could begin the arduous training process for a race that spans five bridges and covers all five boroughs, Sehorn needed another purpose for running 26.2 miles and that was finding a cause. The cause he ran for was The Foundation for Tomorrow that was founded by Gunderman and focuses on education in Tanzania.
Then came the training, which is hardly like any of the practices and training camps of Sehorn's NFL career. Instead of doing sprints and lifting weights, which are staples of NFL practices, there were the long training runs, though unlike many runners, Sehorn estimates he did three or four.
"I feel it in my knees and just figured if I abuse myself too much, I won't make it to the marathon," Sehorn said.
As he approached race day, Sehorn felt 3 1/2 hours was a reasonable goal but felt he could finish it in three hours.
"I was training for it and I noticed I was pretty fast and you know what I think I could do pretty good and get that 3:30 and I think that's a reasonable expectation," Sehorn said. "As I continued to train, I set my sights a little higher."
Then came race day and Sehorn wound up with a time of 3:19:26 and averaged 7:37 per mile. As he was running, Sehorn like so many others could not help to notice the party atmosphere on streets such as Manhattan Avenue in Brooklyn, Vernon Boulevard in Queens and First Avenue in Manhattan Avenue.
"The overall experience was pretty cool just because if there was a street, it was lined with people,” Sehorn said. "And for something as brutal as a marathon, you're running for three hours, it's just nice to have all those people cheering you on, putting their hands out for high fives — you never feel alone.
"Every training run that I had done before that I run by myself. You got music in your ears, some cars going by, that's it. Here it was completely different experience and that I think makes it so cool."
Still even with enjoying the festive atmosphere and raising approximately $7,000, there were some tough moments. Among them were the Queensboro Bridge, between mile 15 and 16 and fifth avenue between mile 22 and 25.
Sehorn made it through those difficult points and when he finished, he met up with Barber to end a day that likely will be a one-time occurrence.
"It was awesome," Sehorn said. "I had a lot of fun out there. Getting out there and training for that, I'd rather find other things to do."
So don’t expect Sehorn to run it as often as Barber or even as often as former San Francisco 49ers running back Roger Craig, who has finished over 30 marathons.
A day later, Sehorn was feeling the soreness of his longest run and was ready to watch the Giants attempt to beat the Cowboys
