
# Shadow cast by Andre Gomes' injury sees Everton vs Tottenham pale into insignificance

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:10:18+00:00**

Author: **Andy Dunn, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/andy-dunn/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/shadow-cast-andre-gomes-injury-20804903)

As they left the field amid a toxic atmosphere, every player’s face told the only story of this match.
Even Dele Alli’s, whose critic-answering second-half strike had seemingly put Spurs on course for a significant win.
Even Cenk Tosun’s, whose meaty added-time header had salvaged a welcome point for Everton.
If not stained with tears, every face was etched with worry, creased with concern for one of their own.
Did it matter that their ­respective teams had produced a game hardly befitting of two sides who began the season ­fancied, to varying degrees, for lofty finishes? No.
Did it matter that this was a contest that simply featured too many players out of form? No.
Did it matter that, after an hour of ­tedious dross, Alex Iwobi misplaced a pass and Heung-Min Son flicked it to Alli, who finished with considerable aplomb? No.
Did it matter that Alli’s “sleeping” celebration seems to be some sort of response to the pundits who have been queuing up to criticise him? No.
Did it matter that VAR – after not giving an obvious penalty for a Yerry Mina foul on Son ­before Spurs finally broke through – took more than three minutes to decide an Alli ­handball was also not worthy of a spot-kick? No.
Did it matter that, had Spurs not been reduced to 10 men with Son’s red card, they might not have conceded the leveller which came from a beautiful Lucas Digne volleyed cross ­emphatically greeted by Tosun’s head? No.
No, no, no, no, no and no.
For a day or two at least, the talk of pressure on Marco Silva or on Mauricio Pochettino, even, can quieten. The only thing that matters is the hope of some positive updates on the condition of Andre Gomes.
Other talking points might have been the return to some sort of form for Alli, whose calm skill ahead of his finish was one of the classiest moments of the match.
Or the absence of Harry Kane, whose illness robbed Spurs of a cutting edge that might have put Everton to the sword.
Or the general struggle for confidence that seems, on ­occasions, to be coursing through these two teams.
Or even the continuing ­struggles of Christian Eriksen, who showed only fleeting glimpses of his excellence.
But it was the terrible plight of Gomes that dominated all thoughts.
And in the cold light of day, it has to be recorded it was a freakish accident that caused his horrific leg injury.
It would not have happened without Son’s foul, which is why the South Korean was distraught.
What seemed a ‘normal’ foul proved catastrophic for poor Gomes and that is why the crowd were incensed with Son.
It is a type of ­incident that is not ­uncommon.
What is uncommon is that it ends with the sort of injury that is too gruesome to look at.
Also in the cold light of day, you could argue –­ convincingly – Son’s challenge warranted only the yellow card originally produced by ­Martin Atkinson before he soon upgraded it to red ­having been alerted by VAR.
And yes, Spurs with a full complement might have held on for a win, Silva’s future might have been more uncertain and Pochettino’s side might have gathered some momentum.
But would it have really mattered? No.
