
# X Factor winner James Arthur will return to celebrity show as guest performer

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:20:35+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/x-factor-winner-james-arthur-20786216)

X Factor champ James Arthur is set to make his return on the celeb edition of the show.
Saturday's live show will see the Impossible singer, 31, take to the stage as the contestants wait to learn if they've been given the boot or will survive to sing another day.
The news was dropped by the X Factor Twitter account: "The #XFactor stage is a second home for @JamesArthur23!
"Rumour has it he's quite missing it...Catch him on Saturday night, we're so excited to have him back! #XFactorCelebrity."
James himself shared with fans that he'll be performing one of his most popular hits.
The star wrote: "Excited to say I'll be making a return to @TheXFactor on Saturday night to perform 'Quite Miss Home.' Tune in at 8:30 on @ITV."
James triumphed in the X Factor's ninth series, back in 2012, beating Jahmene Douglas.
His cover of Impossible, Shontelle's smash hit sensation, soon made James the fastest-selling X Factor winner to that date.
 
He suffered a downward spiral after finding fame though, with several scandals rearing their heads - including a prostitute claiming to have performed a sexual act on the star as he kept his socks on. 
In 2014, he received a major blow when SyCo, his record label, dropped him. After he'd cleaned up his act, the iconic label signed him back up.
2016 saw the release of his emotional ballad Say You Won't Let Go, which won James his fans back and set him on course for an impressive comeback.
He also allegedly had a fling with Spice Girl Mel B after they crossed paths on America's Got Talent.
A source told The Sun : "Mel met James soon after her marriage ended while she was working in LA on America's Got Talent.
"They were brought together by Simon Cowell who secured James an opportunity to perform on the show.
"James was single at the time and they hit it off instantly...They had a wild fling and loved spending time together, but it ended respectfully."
James recently struck out at music "snobs", insisting his music is good enough to be performed at the hugely popular Glastonbury Festival.
