
# Lidl is selling cheese advent calendars in time for Christmas

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:38:54+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Waddington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/food-drink/lidl-selling-cheese-advent-calendars-3508890)

If you love cheese and you love Christmas, Lidl have got you sorted this festive season with a CHEESE advent calendar.
It seems every year supermarkets are competing each other and taking their advent calendars to that next level by seeing what crazy addition they can add to the mix.
Aldi's sell-out wine advent calendar is back for 2019 and the M&S beauty advent calendar is just £40 for £300 worth of products.
But this year Lidl have won Christmas by launching a cheese advent calendar. The German discount chain is also selling a luxury candle calendar and even a milk-free range.
The British Cheese Advent Calendar will set you back £7.99, and is filled with eight varieties of miniature cheeses - including a festive selection - and cheesy jokes.
Cheese lovers will be treated to a variety of flavours including Jarlsberg, Double Gloucester, Cheddar and Christmassy flavours Wensleydale with Cranberries and Gingerbread.
But be warned -  it must be kept in the fridge.
Not a fan of cheese? Other ranges include The Luxury Collection Advent Calendar, which costs £19.99 and includes scented candles.
It contains 24 candles in total, with scents including lavender, citrus and herb, pomegranate, frosted pine, frankincense, or apple and cinnamon.
The Advent calendar comes in a large triangle white box with a picture of a Christmas tree on the front.
They will go on sale on  Thursday, November 7.
Kinnerton Milk Chocolate Advent Calendar Assorted - 99p
Cadbury Dairy Milk Advent Calendar - £1.49
Kinder Chocolate Mini Advent Calendar - £2.99
Moo Free Organic Advent Calendar (vegan) - £3.99
Reese's Chocolate Advent Calendar - £4.99
Cadbury Miniature Heroes Advent Calendar - £4.99
Deluxe Premium Luxury Advent Calendar (Present Shape with Bow) - £6.99
Ilchester Cheese Advent Calendar - £7.99
The Luxury Collection Candle Advent Calendar - £19.99
