
# Starting XI: Chiefs v Pirates

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:20:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/match-reports/telkom-knockout-quarter-final-starting-xi-kaizer-chiefs-v-orlando-pirates-02-november-2019/666578)


        Telkom Knockout
      
Teams: Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates
Date: 02 November 2019
Venue: Moses Mabhida Stadium
Kaizer Chiefs will be eager to end a four-year winless run in the Soweto derby when they clash with arch-rivals Orlando Pirates in the quarter-finals of the Telkom Knockout on Saturday afternoon.
The match is set to kickstart at 15h00.
Amakhosi are in a good run of form after winning five games in a row in all competitions, including a morale-boosting 2-0 win over Mamelodi Sundowns in the league last Sunday.
Chiefs got to this stage of the tournament after beating Cape Town City 4-2 on penalties following a 1-1 draw in extra-time in the Mother City two weeks ago.
However, the Glamour Boys have not beaten the Buccaneers in all official competitions since a penalty shoot-out victory in the semi-finals of this tournament in November 2015 under Steve Komphela.
On the other hand, the Buccaneers are still finding their feet under caretaker coach Rhulani Mokwena after the abrupt departure of Milutin Sredojevic early in the season and they could be at their most vulnerable in the last four years of being undefeated against Chiefs.
Pirates got to this stage of the competition after edging Stellenbosch FC 1-0 in the first round and their fitness levels will be tested after playing on Tuesday, where they claimed a 1-0 win over Highlands Park.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now 
        
      

        Here's how they line up:
      
Chiefs: 43. Akpeyi, 20. Sasman, 3. Mathoho, 4. Cardoso, 45. Blom, 31. Katsande, 12. Maluleka, 21. Manyama, 9. Nurkovic, 11. Billiat, 8. Castro
Subs: 44. Bvuma, 25. Parker, 7. Kambole, 22. Zulu, 28. Zuma, 30. Ngezana, 36. Ntiya-Ntiya.
Pirates:  30. Sandilands, 28. Dube,  4. Jele, 23. Maela, 5. Nyauza, 27. Motshwari, 18. Dlamini, 15. Makaringe, 45. Pule, 3. Lorch, 16. Mabasa. 
Subs: 1. Delle, 18. Chabalala, 44. Mabaso, 29. Mako, 7. Mhango, 12. Shonga, 17. Mulenga. 
