
# Everton provide Andre Gomes injury update after undergoing surgery

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:06:20+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/breaking-everton-provide-andre-gomes-20809782)

Everton have confirmed Andre Gomes has undergone successful surgery on the ankle injury he suffered against Tottenham on Sunday night.
Portugal star Gomes suffered the horrific injury after being tackled by Son Heung-min and falling awkwardly into Serge Aurier.
He was rushed to hospital after being treated on the pitch for a lengthy period of time and taken on a stretcher to an ambulance.
A club statement read: " Everton Football Club can confirm Andre Gomes underwent surgery to repair a fracture dislocation to his right ankle earlier today and the procedure went extremely well.
"The Portugal international, who sustained the injury in yesterday’s Premier League fixture with Tottenham Hotspur, will now spend some time recovering in hospital, before returning to USM Finch Farm to start his rehabilitation under the guidance of the Club’s medical staff.
"The 26-year-old is expected to make a full recovery.
"On behalf of Andre, the Club would like to thank all Everton supporters and members of the wider football family for the overwhelming messages of support we have received since yesterday’s match."
 
Spurs star Son was left in tears when he realised the extent of Gomes' injury before being sent off for his challenge.
The incident marred the 1-1 draw, which saw Cenk Tosun equalise in added time after Dele Alli's opening goal.
"Everybody is sad inside. Some players, they nearly cried," said Tosun after the game.
"He was in shock, his eyes were open so big. He was like crying, shouting and screaming.
"I just tried to hold him and speak to him. I tried to tell him to stay calm. We couldn't understand him."
Praising his players for their response to Gomes' injury, manager Marco Silva said: "It was a really tough moment for us, forgetting the game and the result, with what has happened with Andre.
"Our players now, they are sad, a tough moment for us in our dressing room and for Andre, but the spirit we showed after that moment on the pitch I think is a good answer for you.
"What I can tell you is he will have all the support he needs from ourselves.
"He is seriously injured but I am 100 per cent sure Andre will become stronger as a football player and as a man, because he is a fantastic lad, a fantastic professional.
"And I have to be fair: of course it was a strong tackle but I am 100 per cent sure Son didn't do it with the intention to do something bad to Andre."
