
# Railway board gives green signal to suburban trains project

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/railway-board-gives-green-signal-to-suburban-trains-project/articleshow/71912036.cms)

After a wait of 36 years, the Extended Railway Board (top most decision making body of the railways) has given its nod for the Bengaluru suburban rail project. The decision was taken at the Extended Railway Board Meeting held on Monday where officials from NITI Aayog, Railway Ministry, Ministry of Planning and Statistics and Finance Ministry, approved the project. The file would next be placed before the Cabinet for the final approval. Speaking to Bangalore Mirror from New Delhi, Bengaluru Central MP PC Mohan said, “We have working on getting clearance for suburban train for the last seven years. We will now work towards its implementation. This will give commuters another mode of transport to choose from.” Bengaluru South MP Tejaswi Surya added, “With the Cabinet to take up the issue, we shall soon meet the PM to request him for a speedy clearance.” Sanjeev Dyamannavar, Praja founding member, says it was a long-pending approval. “A major hurdle has been overcome with this approval. Now, we may get the Cabinet’s approval in a month’s time. The government should allocate appropriate funds for the project,” he says. Citizens say that as the project would take a long time to become a reality, the government should look at measures for a quick fix by providing more railway lines and increasing frequency of trains with UMTA (Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority) for last mile connectivity. Srinivas Alavilli, co-founder, Citizens for Bengaluru, says, “It is better late than never. Had it been approved earlier, the traffic and level of pollution would have been less.” He adds that while the project takes shape, the government and railways should look at short term measures that they can introduce immediately. “They can introduce a halting station at Marathahalli junction and leverage on existing resources to increase the number of trains. This would help shift the traffic from road onto the railways,” he says.
.
Sandeep Anirudhan, founder, Citizens Agenda for Bengaluru, agrees. He says, “It would take six to ten years to implement the project. The traffic situation is already bad. So the railways should get automatic signalling on all lines to help trains from all districts and build a small control room to help the issue right away. This would only cost a few crores and they can do it with existing resources.” He adds that the frequency of trains should also be increased. “I would rather wait for 15 minutes for a train than spend two to three hours on the road. If they add frequency, half the traffic would be cleared. They can get the team from Mumbai suburban railways and seek help to implement the same here,” he says. The citizens also emphasise on last-mile connectivity. Vishnu Prasad from Bellandur Development Forum says one million people travel on Outer Ring Road-Sarjapur Corridor. “If the trains are introduced and shuttle or Metro connectivity is provided on this high-density corridor, it would be of help. The public transport would not run in losses too. The government should get the Metro work done soon,” he says.
