
# Sky Sports pundit Charlie Nicholas makes Liverpool Champions League prediction

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:28:34+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/sky-sports-pundit-charlie-nicholas-20817237)

Liverpool will make light work of their Champions League encounter with Genk despite not being "at their best", according to Sky Sports pundit Charlie Nicholas.
The Reds, aiming for a third straight Group E win, cannot afford to drop points at Anfield on Tuesday against the Belgian champions.
Jurgen Klopp's side have beaten Salzburg and Genk since launching their European title defence with defeat in Napoli, while Sadio Mane's last-gasp goal at Aston Villa on Saturday kept them top of the Premier League.
Klopp will surely have one eye on Sunday's home clash with Manchester City when finalising his squad for Tuesday's tie., meaning he may well rest star players including Mohamed Salah.
And Nicholas reckons even if the German opts for a weakened team, they should still have enough in attack to secure another group stage victory.
" Liverpool are not at their best,’ Nicholas told Sky Sports . "People might suggest that once they get going, they will be ruthless, but they are getting away with it currently.
"The Napoli and Manchester United matches were reality checks, but they could have been two or three down by the time they rescued things at Aston Villa.
"Liverpool have a dramatic amount of games coming up. Mohamed Salah was really average at the weekend, as was Roberto Firmino, so Jurgen Klopp may leave a couple out and change it up.
"I think it will be a fairly comfortable night nevertheless for Liverpool."
Meanwhile, Genk coach Felice Mazzu insists his squad are not at Anfield to "take photos" but did admit he had brought every available player because the match was a great moment for the club.
The Belgian club were beaten 4-1 at home by Jurgen Klopp's side a fortnight ago and have yet to win any of the 15 matches they have played in their relatively small Champions League history.
A 2-0 defeat against struggling Eupen at the weekend was not the ideal preparation and Mazzu knows his players have to massively improve if they are not to be rolled over again.
"I brought everyone because I think it is a great moment for the club, for all the players, so my desire was that everyone is here," he said.
"It is the moment to enjoy but not to be here to take photos. It is to give their life on the pitch and play the best football possible.
"They play a big game against a big team perhaps for once in our life in a place like this.
"I know the results are not so good and the way we have played is not so good. I know it's not an easy moment but I am calm. I don't feel the pressure.
"We play against the best team in the world at the moment. I am sure the players' mentality will be better tomorrow - and I hope the coach's also."
