
# Ilocos-Pangasinan cops give new meaning to word ‘Tokhang’

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:10:53+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/editorial/opinion/ilocos-pangasinan-cops-give-new-meaning-word-tokhang)

If Oplan: Tokhang operatives use to ‘knock’ on the doors of suspected drug personalities in their areas and ‘appeal’ on them to surrender and be subjected to government reformatory programs, the PRO1’s Regional Police Strategy Management Unit has its own T.O.K.H.A.N.G. 2030 which officials said should also be replicated nationwide.
Orduña said that one of the salient features of their T.O.K.H.A.N.G. 2030 is the Project ProteGeeS (OJT) wherein personnel from the different PRO1 Battalion/Provincial Strategy Management Units are assigned to the RPSMU1 to undergo a 3-months training which will equip them with knowledge on all PGS-related activities specifically the so-called ‘best practices.’
T.O.K.H.A.N.G. 2030 is short for Transforming and Organizing Vision Aligned Circles by Knocking, Harnessing, Assisting and Nurturing Good Governance 2030.
The PRO1 director said that this innovative approach in particular ensures a higher level functionality of all their strategy partners. Under the program, the RPSMU1 members knock at every office/units of the regional police force and assist the Regional Technical Working Group members  in their scorecard monitoring and filling-up, consolidating, documenting, interpreting, analyzing and reporting their Scorecard or Dashboard accomplishments.
Under Orduña, a member of Philippine Military Academy ‘Maringal’ Class of 1988, the PRO1 became the 1st police regional office in the country to accept the challenge to undergo the institutionalization process and pass with flying colors.
During his performance governance report which led to the PRO1 institutionalization, a panel of judges led by Philippine National Police Center for Police Strategy Management director, Brigadier General Sterling Raymund P. Blanco and former CPSM director, now retired Brig. Gen. Noel A. Baraceros Orduna and his men for their many ‘best practices’ as well as their effort to give a brand-new definition of the word ‘Tokhang’ which over the past three years of the Duterte administration has been associated with police anti-narcotics operations.
The PRO1 was also cited for having an outstanding Regional Advisory Council which has been its closest partner in turning the Ilocos-Pangasinan police force into an ideal police organization. The PRO1-RAC is chaired by Ms. Daisy Sayangda, the municipal administrator of Bauang, La Union.
The PRO1-RAC has been credited with providing much-needed insights to the PRO1 particularly when it comes to aligning the regional police force’s policies, plans and programs with the PNP’s.
Apart from its T.O.K.H.A.N.G. 2030, other PRO1 ‘best practices are the following: the Police C.A.R.T.,  KIMAT, PACDAAR and Pangkabuhayan Program for Drug Reformists.
The Police C.A.R.T. or Police Assistance Referral Team is a Regional Operations Division-initiative which was pilot-tested in Pangasinan. The program has been seen as a major crime deterrent as it emphasizes the importance of ‘Police Presence’ rather than ‘Police Visibility’ in the streets particularly along identified crime-prone areas in the region.
Under the program, at least three policemen composed of two male and one female officer man a wooden cart which can be moved from one place to another. Displaying the ‘Quality Service Lan’ signage, the C.A.R.T. personnel are augmented by motorcycle-riding officers ready to respond to any eventuality. So far, there are 126 C.A.R.T. teams in Pangasinan.
KIMAT on the other hand is short for Keen Investigation Monitoring Action Team whose members are on standby to augment investigators from different PRO1 police stations. In 2018, KIMAT enabled the PRO1 to achieve a 65 percent crime clearance efficiency and 43 percent crime solution efficiency.
PACDAAR meanwhile is the Police Advisory on Anti-Criminality, Disaster Alerts and Advocacy Regionwide. It has institutionalized a system to increase public awareness in crime prevention and solution and most importantly, when it comes to disaster preparedness.
Pangkabuhayan Program for Drug Reformists is a PRO1 program to fully support the PNP’s Project: Double Barrel. Thru a partnership between the PRO1-RAC and the Pangasinan Police Provincial Office’s Provincial Public Safety Company, the PRO1 initiated a program to train drug reformists on how to resort to farming as a means of livelihood.
The project also aimed to increase the usage of arable land in the province apart from providing PPSC personnel and the drug reformists agricultural products which they can use daily.
The best practices have enabled the PRO1—known as the ‘Home of Citizen-Friendly Policemen and Protector of Human Rights— to score major accomplishments in its anti-crime drive across the region. Orduña said that there was already a 6.88 percent index crime reduction in the region in 2018. Last year, the PRO1 also scored an average of 90.30 percent crime clearance efficiency and a 76.65 percent crime solution efficient on both index and non-index crimes.
