
# Christmas events taking place in Plymouth - lights switch on, markets and pantomimes

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jess Morcom**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/christmas-events-taking-place-plymouth-3499253)

It's official, the most wonderful time of the year is almost upon us and plans are in place to make this festive season the best one yet.
Whether you're a big Christmas market fan, enjoy the light switch on, or fancy a Christmassy evening at a light festival - there are plenty of ways to get into the holiday spirit in the run up to the big day.
Here are some important dates for your diary so you can get planning.
When? Thursday, November 14, 4pm
Where? Plymouth City Centre
The official switch-on kicks off the festive holiday calender with the light switch on, which also marks the start of late-night shopping.
The fun starts in the City Centre Piazza from 4pm with a variety of entertainment for the whole family to enjoy.
Closing the evening programme will be The Sound - a four-piece indie, rock and pop band based in Plymouth, performing tracks from bands such as The Killers.
When? Thursday, November 28 - Sunday, December 1
Where? Royal William Yard
The incredible light-based festival returns to Plymouth's Royal William Yard to mark the official start of the Mayflower 400 commemorative year.
From 5.30pm each evening, the free festival promises immersive visual art, spectacular projections and interactive installations set out across the festival centre.
Attendance is free and families are welcome. and there are plenty of interactive and playful workshops for everyone to get involved in, both during and in the lead-up to the festival.
When? December 12 - 15, 19-23, 27-30. January 2-5.
Where? Mount Edgcumbe Country Park
The gardens at Mount Edgecumbe will be illuminated as part of an after dark adventure featuring light shows, fascinating tours, mulled wine, and Father Christmas himself.
New this year is new show 'Finding Wonderland' . You'll be surrounded by a kaleidoscope of colourful lights, lasers, special effects and much more.
When? Saturday, November 30 - Sunday, January 5
Where? Plymouth City Centre
20 life size LEGO brick penguins will be hidden in shops and businesses around the City Centre this festive season.
Those that find them all could win prizes including a weekend family trip to LEGOLAND, and a penguin feeding experience at Living Coasts.
When? Sunday, December 1
Where? Southside Street
Festive celebrations will be coming to Southside Street as the Barbican lights up for Christmas.
Santa Claus himself will arrive on an RNLI lifeboat to switch them on, but the Grinch will also be around to cause chaos, along with a range of children's activities and entertainement.
When? Thursday, November 28 to Thursday, December 19.
10am - 6pm Monday - Wednesday, 10am to 6pm Friday and Saturday and 10am - 5pm on Sunday, with late night hours every Thursday until 9pm.
Where? Plymouth City Centre Piazza
Browse to your hearts content this Christmas as 50 traders from across the South West will be selling their wares in traditional wooden cabins, decorated in fairy lights.
Selling everything from handmade jewellery, to artwork and sweet treats. There will be mulled wine, festive foot, a giant illuminated bauble and entertainment on offer.
When? Friday, December 20 - Saturday, January 18
Where? Theatre Royal Plymouth
This year's magical production is Cinderella.
Starring Brian Conley, who is no stranger to Plymouth, the show is set to feature laugh-out-loud comedy, jaw-dropping special effects and plenty of singing, dancing, booing and hissing.
