
# Is the order on Kannada nameboards legal? Not quite

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/is-the-order-on-kannada-nameboards-legal-not-quite/articleshow/71844621.cms)

BBMP has ordered 60 per cent of nameboards should be in Kannada from Nov 1. Experts say Commissioner’s order is not legal The BBMP Commissioner issued an order recently, making Kannada language mandatory on at least 60 per cent of the nameboards of business establishments. This October 19, 2019 order by the Commissioner is no different from similar efforts of the civic agency made in 2017 and 2018. And like the two recent attempts, this too is made to please the ‘November Kannadiga’. Legal experts opine that the order will not stand a legal challenge. In 2017, the then Kannda Development Authority chairman SG Siddaramaiah cited the Karnataka Shops and Commercial Establishments Act, 1961 and asked the BBMP to implement the ‘60 per cent Kannada on nameboards’ rules. Last weekend’s order, made after the new Mayor announced it as a Rajyotsava gift, does not even cite the Act. The High Court has long ago struck down the concerned rules. Advocate KV Dhananjaya said, “This Circular is unlawful. Rules were framed under that Act known as the Karnataka Shops and Commercial Establishments Rules, 1963. In 2008, those Rules were amended to mandate Kannada as the principal and largest language of display on name boards of shops and commercial establishments (Rule 24-A).
These developments prove the Karnataka Government’s love of Kannada is empty and devoid of any rational effort
KV Dhananjay, AdvocateVodafone approached the Karnataka High Court on the ground that the amendment had no connection to the objective of the 1961 Act. A Single Judge of the High Court agreed and struck down Rule 24-A. The State appealed to a Division Bench and also lost there. One would have expected that the State would have learnt a swift lesson from those judicial setbacks. It looks like it hasn’t or doesn’t want to.” So without the backing of an Act, any circular or notification by the BBMP cannot be legally enforced. At best, it will give BBMP officials the opportunity to issue notices to business establishments. The October 19, order says all shops, hotels, companies and other establishments that have obtained licence from the BBMP should implement the ‘60 per cent Kannada on nameboards’ by November 1 failing which their licences will be cancelled. New businesses will not be given licences if they do not follow this rule. “It is as simple as citing the relevant provisions of law before you issue an order. The Commissioner’s order should mention as to under which law they are implementing it. The Commissioner cannot make a law by issuing an order. It is for the Government to make laws. The HC struck down the earlier Rules because it did not have legal backing. The State Government had nearly 10 years to make a new law by passing a new Act. Any businessman affected by this order can approach the court and that will be the end of this order or notification,” said advocate RLN Murthy. Dhananjay too says the problem with the Commissioner’s order is its lack of legal backing. “The latest Circular does not recite the provision of law under which it has been issued. The affected will move the Court and the State should be prepared to lose again. Why can’t the State Legislature amend the principal Act itself or come out with a fresh legislation for such purpose? So long as freedom is available to traders to also include other languages - though in a smaller font - on nameboards, such a law would find no difficulty under the Constitution. In all, these developments prove the Karnataka Government’s love of Kannada is empty and devoid of any rational effort,” he said.
