
# Kentucky AG-Elect Daniel Cameron Promises to Fight Drug Epidemic

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:25:25+00:00**

Author: **Penny Starr**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/06/kentucky-attorney-general-elect-daniel-cameron-promises-to-fight-drug-epidemic/)

Cameron beat Democrat House Speaker Greg Stumbo in Tuesday’s off-year election.
In April, the Kentucky-based magazine Commonwealth Journal profiled Cameron and his promise to take on the drug addiction epidemic if elected as the state’s top cop.
“I certainly think that the attorney general should be the tip of the spear in confronting the challenges [of drugs],” Cameron said in the magazine interview. “We lost, based on the most recent numbers, 1,565 individuals to drug overdoses here in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.”
“I think we can do better than that, especially if we have an attorney general who is paying diligent attention to this issue,” Cameron said.
The magazine reported that the road to his history-making election if filled with accomplishments:
“I handled the legal and compliance issues for the office, but in addition to that I had a legislative portfolio, so I handled judicial nominations for the senator,” Cameron said.
But Cameron said his favorite work has been working with men and women first responders.
“What I was most proud of was the opportunity to work closely with Kentucky law enforcement. I was the liaison for the office in all matters related to Kentucky law enforcement,” he said, adding that it gave him an up-close look at the battle against drugs.
“I became intimately familiar with the day-in-day-out challenges that they confront. … So I took all those experiences and came back to Kentucky in June of 2017,” Cameron said. “I wanted to continue to be a meaningful contributor to the conversation around the drug epidemic and ultimately made the decision to get in the race for attorney general.”
The article reveals the conservative values he will bring to the table as attorney general. He stated:
He also commented on his religious values and how they have shaped his pro-life stance:
“Now it’s time to not only to talk the talk, but walk the walk,” Cameron said in his victory speech. 
“And so we have a responsibility in the coming days to work with whomever, regardless if you have a Republican designation by your name or if you have a Democrat designation by your name,” Cameron said. “Now the real work starts.”
EEW online magazine reported on Cameron’s victory:
“The Bible and Jesus often referred to a rock or a cornerstone as being essential to any foundation,” Cameron said in his victory speech. “Those references are found over and over in Scripture, and there can be no mistake that my mom Sandra Cameron has been a rock for me my entire life.”
“She’s been interceding for me and this campaign team with the Lord the entirety of this campaign, and she’s been covering us up, so I’m so grateful to her,” Cameron said.
Follow Penny Starr on Twitter.
