
# Outcomes for children in custody worse than a decade ago, says report

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:01:15+00:00**

Author: **Helen Pidd**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/society/2019/nov/05/outcomes-children-custody-worse-decade-ago-report)


        Conditions inside youth prisons have worsened and reoffending rates are higher
      
The government has failed to capitalise on the “remarkable” fall in the number of children in youth custody, with outcomes for those sent to prison worse than a decade ago, a report has found.
The research – carried out by the Crest Advisory thinktank and funded by the Hadley Trust, a social welfare charity – found that despite a 73% drop in the number of children in custody, conditions inside youth prisons were worse than in 2009, with rising levels of assaults and self-harm. Meanwhile, reoffending rates are higher for young offenders.
The government should ban custodial sentences of less than six months for children, the authors urged, arguing short sentences do not give a child a “realistic” chance to change their behaviour.
In 2018, almost half of children sentenced to immediate custody were given six months or less. The latest statistics showed 71.5% of those on such short sentences went on to reoffend within a year, compared with 57.4% of children given between one and four years.
The report said: “These short custodial sentences break vital links with family, education and support services, and provide little opportunity for secure establishments to tackle the child’s problems.
“Children fail to settle in secure provision and do not feel it is worth investing in the regime or building the relationships with staff members that would help them to make progress.”
The head of the Youth Justice Board for England and Wales, Charlie Taylor, made the same recommendation in 2016, but the government said doing so posed “a risk of creating perverse incentives”.
The Crest Advisory report also called for the expansion of youth offending teams up to the age of 25, after figures showed young adults aged 18-24 constituted 8.5% of the population but 16% of those in custody.
“Behavioural neuroscience studies have provided strong evidence that the typical adult male brain is not fully formed until at least the mid-20s, meaning young adult males may be more similar to children than adults in psychosocial terms. Overall, the evidence suggests that young adults are at a formative stage in their lives, and if given the right interventions that they can desist from offending and ‘grow out of crime’,” the authors claimed.
Responding to the report, the children’s commissioner for England, Anne Longfield, said the current system was failing children.
“Despite good intentions from many staff, the failure of the current system is well documented. It does not help the public they seek to protect and certainly not those young people whose lives they are failing to turn around,” she said.
