
# Using Light Beams to Control Google, Apple, Amazon Assistants

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:34:32+00:00**

Author: **Ionut Ilascu**

Original: [BleepingComputer](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/using-light-beams-to-control-google-apple-amazon-assistants/)

Academic researchers found that certain microphones convert light to sound, allowing voice commands to be sent to voice-controlled (VC) devices like Google Home, Amazon Echo, Facebook Portal, smartphones, or tablets.
Dubbed Light Commands, the attack works from afar by shining a laser beam at microphones that use micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS), which convert the light into an electrical signal.
By modulating the intensity of the light beam, MEMS can be tricked to produce the same electrical signals produced by audio commands. With careful aiming and laser focusing, attacks can be successful from as far as 110 meters.
In their experiments, researchers from the University of Electro-Communications in Japan and the University of Michigan tested the attack on popular VC devices.
The voice recognition system in Google Home, Nest Cam, Amazon Echo, Fire Cube TV, iPhone, Samsung Galaxy S9, Google Pixel, and iPad, was tested from various distances.
Device Voice RecognitionSystem Minimun Laser Powerat 30 cm [mW] Max Distanceat 60 mW [m]* Max Distanceat 5 mW [m]** Google Home Google Assistant 0.5 50+ 110+ Google Home mini Google Assistant 16 20 - Google NEST Cam IQ Google Assistant 9 50+ - Echo Plus 1st Generation Amazon Alexa 2.4 50+ 110+ Echo Plus 2nd Generation Amazon Alexa 2.9 50+ 50 Echo Amazon Alexa 25 50+ - Echo Dot 2nd Generation Amazon Alexa 7 50+ - Echo Dot 3rd Generation Amazon Alexa 9 50+ - Echo Show 5 Amazon Alexa 17 50+ - Echo Spot Amazon Alexa 29 50+ - Facebook Portal Mini Alexa + Portal 18 5 - Fire Cube TV Amazon Alexa 13 20 - EchoBee 4 Amazon Alexa 1.7 50+ 70 iPhone XR Siri 21 10 - iPad 6th Gen Siri 27 20 - Samsung Galaxy S9 Google Assistant 60 5 - Google Pixel 2 Google Assistant 46 5 -
A Light Commands attack sends inaudible instructions to a voice-controlled device, making it react in a meaningful way. The researchers demonstrated that it can be used to open a garage door or to unlock the front door of a house.
