
# Here’s Why Aaron Sorkin And Mark Zuckerberg Are Feuding

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lisette Voytko**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisettevoytko/2019/11/01/heres-why-aaron-sorkin-and-mark-zuckerberg-are-beefing/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2789546685&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesTechTwitter)

Topline: Screenwriter Aaron Sorkin and Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg took shots at each other this week⁠ as Facebook comes under unrelenting scrutiny from lawmakers concerned about the platform’s controversial policy to not fact-check political ads.
Chief critic: Elizabeth Spiers, Gawker’s founding editor-in-chief, took to Twitter and clarified that the Gawker lawsuit was an invasion of privacy claim, not a defamation claim. She also said that even though Gawker wrote a lot of negative stories, they were not “inherently” defamatory because of their negativity. 
Key background: Sorkin won a screenwriting Oscar for The Social Network, a dramatic retelling of Facebook’s founding and the rise of social media. In 2014, Zuckerberg said the film “made up a bunch of stuff that I found kind of hurtful.” Since then, Facebook has been resoundly criticized for upending global politics by allowing the spread of misinformation, which it claims it is working to limit ahead of 2020. To protest Facebook’s political ad policy, Elizabeth Warren ran one claiming Facebook had endorsed President Trump and that the platform allows “a candidate to intentionally lie to the American people.” Zuckerberg doubled down on the policy during a Wednesday earnings call, saying, “In a democracy, I don’t think it’s right for private companies to censor politicians or the news.”
What to watch for: Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey announced that the social network will ban all political advertising, beginning in November. After Zuckerberg was grilled on Capitol Hill last week⁠—and his exchange with Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez went viral⁠—it remains unclear if Facebook will alter its political advertising policy. 
Tangent: Zuckerberg didn’t have a particularly great time last week, either. 
