
# Recognition for Old Kilpatrick group cleaning up our streets

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:09:39+00:00**

Author: **Tracy Carmichael**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/recognition-old-kilpatrick-group-cleaning-20826095)

The Wombles had a reputation for battling litter louts – but now a community group has been handed an accolade for their efforts to spruce up the streets.
But rather than tidy Wimbledon Common, members of Action Old Kilpatrick are dedicated to keeping the village spick and span.
Their efforts have been recognised after they landed an award in the outstanding category from environmental charity Keep Scotland Beautiful.
 
The It’s Your Neighbourhood gong is designed to celebrate those who improve the community.
They were amongst more than 160 groups handed awards for their commitment to cleaning up, at a ceremony in Stirling.
A host of community initiatives from school wildlife clubs to allotment societies, were recognised at the event.
Winners received a graded certificate for their achievements.
 
Katie Murray, communities and place manager from Keep Scotland Beautiful, said: “Every It’s Your Neighbourhood participant deserves this recognition for their hard work and determination to improve their own community.
“By volunteering their own time the 2019 groups have managed to support hundreds of environmental initiatives across Scotland.
“I would like to offer my congratulations to all of the groups involved. I hope that their enthusiasm inspires many more people to take part in helping to improve their local community in 2020.”
The awards scheme is run by the charity in conjunction with the Royal Horticultural Society.
For more local news from West Dunbartonshire click here .
