
# Hamilton insists there is still plenty of work to do despite topping FP2

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:11:00+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Tyrrell**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49209/hamilton-reflects-on-chilly-friday-at-the-circuit-of-the-americas.html)


        Lewis Hamilton had a mixed day at the Circuit of the Americas after finishing FP1 down in eighth he then topped FP2. However, the Brit admitted there is still plenty of work for the team to do.
      
During FP1 Hamilton and Valtteri Bottas, both ran the 2020 Pirelli prototype hence why they both finished way down where they would have. In FP2 Hamilton topped the timesheets but his time was helped by a big tow on his quickest lap.
With the Red Bull of Max Verstappen and the Ferrari pair seemingly having an advantage at the COTA track Hamilton remained positive in Mercedes Friday review.
"It was pretty cold out there on the track today, but at least the sun came out," Hamilton said.

        "The first session was interesting as we tried the 2020 tyres. FP2 was more of a normal session and it actually went quite smoothly."
      
The Brit can be crowned World Champion for the sixth time this weekend and he's well aware there's still a big job to do.

        "I’m looking forward to the weekend – I love this track in general and the car felt fairly decent today.
      

        "However, we’ve still got a lot of work to do, so we will dig through the data tonight and hopefully we can be strong tomorrow."
      
