
# Caroline Flack hides left hand on boozy night out with rumoured fiancé Lewis Burton

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:50:14+00:00**

Author: **Lily Waddell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lily-waddell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/caroline-flack-hides-left-hand-20833158)

Caroline Flack played it coy when she hid her hand on boozy night with her rumoured fiancé Lewis Burton.
The Love Island host, 40, has been fuelling the fire of gossip she got engaged to her toyboy beau Lewis, 27.
Only adding to the speculation, the TV presenter kept her left hand concealed behind her lover's back when they posed for a cute couple picture at Cahoots new bar in London's Soho.
Madly in love, The Surjury star rested her head on her love's shoulder while they got cosy for the photograph at the train station-themed bar.
The couple were among a number of guests at the star-studded launch of the new 1940s-inspired cocktail bar in the heart of Soho.
In the stunning snap, Lewis toasted with a shot while he gazed into the camera with Caroline hanging off him.
Another photograph captured the lovebirds giggling to themselves as they had a great date night.
The fun photo shoot did nothing to dispel claims the pair had decided to take their romance to the next level.
Mirror Online previously contacted Caroline Flack's representative for comment.
A representative for Caroline told The Sun Online that she is “100% not engaged” but she and Lewis are “still very much together”.
The couple were thought to have embarked on a whirlwind romance together after she returned to the UK following her stint in Mallorca for Love Island over the summer.
Caroline has been drip feeding her Instagram account with a series of loved-up snaps of her new man.
Recently, she confessed she is worried about running out of time to have kids.
"I've kind of always put work first. Wake up in the morning, go to work, come home — just like my boyfriend has," she told Kathy Burke's All Woman show.
"I'm scared it's going to get too late where I've wanted to go, 'Right, maybe slow down, think about having kids and maybe think about settling down,' but I've never had that.
"I feel guilty for it sometimes, I feel like maybe I'm being selfish."
Before Lewis, it was The Apprentice star Andrew Brady, who was very briefly her fiancé, and Jack Street, who she moved in with after just eights months before he broke her heart.
