
# Angler Dorrie a winner at Munster trial

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:16:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/07/4181989-angler-dorrie-a-winner-at-munster-trial/)

WELL known lady angler Dorrie Gibbons from Cong won the recent Munster trial for the Irish Ladies Flyfishing Association at Carrigavantry Lake in Kilmeaden, Co. Waterford.
Dorrie is an accomplished fly fishing angler and well known on the fly fishing angling competition circuit on the local western lakes. She has nine Irish caps, fishing at the Ladies Flyfishing International Championships in England, Scotland, Wales and Ireland, and has won two gold medals, one on Lough Lein, Killarney, in 2009 and one on Carragh Lake, Glencar, Co. Kerry, in 2013 when the Irish ladies team won the Home Ladies Flyfishing Internationals.
Dorrie's annual charity fishing competition, Casting for Autism, which she organises every July on Loughs Corrib and Mask, is hugely popular with anglers throughout Ireland. The last two years she has donated the proceeds of the charity competition to the Guide Dogs Association of Ireland.
Dorrie won the recent Munster trial for the Irish Ladies Flyfishing Association catching nine fish on the competition day, having caught 15 fish on a practice day. She reported catching most of her fish on the dry fly method using a variety of flies.
The competition was fished on a catch and release basis. Carrigavantry Lake is situated on the outskirts of Waterford City and is managed by the Waterford City & County Anglers Association. It is stocked with brown and rainbow trout and is very popular with anglers from the south east but attracts anglers from all provinces at the end of season as it remains open until the end of October each year.
