
# Alun Cairns resigns as Welsh Secretary over claims he lied about former aide

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:08:11+00:00**

Author: **Mikey Smith, Dan Bloom, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mikey-smith/, https://www.facebook.com/mirrordanbloom**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/breaking-alun-cairns-resigns-welsh-20823734)

A top Tory has resigned from the Cabinet over claims he lied about his knowledge of a former aide accused of collapsing a rape trial.
Welsh Secretary Alun Cairns quit hours after a leaked e-mail claimed he was informed of a row involving Ross England in August 2018 - despite saying he didn't know until last week.
Mr England was slammed by a judge, who accused him of "deliberately" collapsing a trial by making claims about the victim's sexual history when he gave evidence. But he was later selected as a Tory candidate for the Welsh Assembly.
In a letter to Boris Johnson today, Mr Cairns said he had quit in "light of continued speculation" about the "very sensitive matter".
He revealed there will be an investigation into whether he breached the Ministerial Code but insisted: "I am confident I will be cleared of any breach or wrong doing."
But Jeremy Corbyn lashed out after Mr Cairns indicated he'd remain a candidate for the marginal Vale of Glamorgan seat. Labour's leader said: "Obviously, legally he can stand as a candidate but does he have a moral right to stand as a candidate?
 
"If he’s stepping down as a minister because of his involvement then I would have thought the very least the Conservative Party can do is not put him up as a candidate in the next election."
Shadow Welsh Secretary Christina Rees said: "Alun Cairns stepping down as Secretary of State is far from the end of the matter, and is a shoddy halfway house that will fool nobody.
“He has still not explained his behaviour and still not addressed the grave issues raised by the leaked emails yesterday. Worse still, neither he nor any senior Welsh Tory have apologised to one person who most deserves it - the victim herself.
“He should do the right thing - apologise, and step down as a candidate.”
Plaid Cymru leader Liz Saville Roberts added: "I hope that Alun Cairns’ resignation as Secretary of State proves to be some solace to the woman at the centre of this case, who still has received no apology from the Conservative party.
"Such conduct is neither befitting of a government minister, nor of a member of parliament. Mr Cairns should do the honourable thing and withdraw from the election – and if he doesn’t, the Conservative party should insist he withdraws."
The row erupted after WalesOnline reported a judge's angry criticism of Ross England - now a Tory Welsh Assembly candidate - at Cardiff Crown Court for his evidence at a trial, in which someone he knew was accused of rape.
During the trial Judge Stephen Hopkins QC told Mr England:  "You have managed, singlehandedly, and I have no doubt it was deliberate on your part, to sabotage this trial.
"Mr England, as far as I am concerned, this matter so far as you are concerned isn’t ended. I shall be writing personal letters to people who are politically close to you and I hope they take appropriate action. Get out of my court."
The remarks were made during the trial in April 2018, but could not be reported until last week because of an ongoing legal appeal.
The case had to be ended early and a retrial took place six months later, last October, when the victim had to go through the ordeal of giving evidence for a second time and the defendant, James Hackett, was found guilty and jailed for five years.
Last week, Welsh Conservatives chairman Lord Davies told the BBC he and Mr Cairns were "completely unaware of the details of the collapse of this trial until they became public this week".
But BBC Wales later said it had obtained a leaked email sent to Mr Cairns - which showed he had been made aware of the allegations as early as August last year.
The email, dated August 2 2018, was sent to Mr Cairns by Geraint Evans, his special adviser, and was also copied to Richard Minshull, director of the Welsh Conservatives.
It said: "I have spoken to Ross and he is confident no action will be taken by the court."
Four months later Mr England was selected as the Welsh Conservatives' candidate for the Vale of Glamorgan for the 2021 Welsh Assembly election.
After the e-mail emerged the rape victim told the BBC Mr Cairns should resign.
She added: "I would like an apology from the party and Alun Cairns for selecting him in the first place. I can't believe that not one senior Welsh Conservative has said that what he did was wrong."
Mr England said when the row erupted last week: "I was not told that anything had been ruled inadmissible prior to my testimony.
"I gave an honest answer, honouring the oath I took to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth."
Dear Prime Minister
You will be aware of allegations relating to the actions of a Party employee and candidate for the Welsh Assembly elections in the Vale of Glamorgan.
This is a very sensitive matter, and in light of continued speculation, I write to tender my resignation as Secretary of State for Wales.
I will cooperate in full with the investigation under the Ministerial Code which will now take place and I am confident I will be cleared of any breach or wrong doing.
It has been an honour to serve in your Government and a privilege to see the positive steps you have made in such a short time. Your work to secure a deal to leave the European Union has been extraordinary and the opportunities it brings are exciting for all parts of the country. I thank you for your commitment to the Union and the way in which you have made it central to all areas of government policy.
My experience of seeing your work first hand with Cabinet colleagues gives me confidence for the future. Your vision and drive to move the country forward to meet the opportunities of Brexit and to protect and enhance public services is exemplary.
I will continue to work to support your vision and ambitions for the country and am grateful for the honour of serving in your Cabinet.
Rt Hon Alun Cairns MP Secretary of State for Wales Ysgrifennydd Gwladol Cymru
Thank you for your letter resigning as Secretary of State of Wales. I am pleased to hear that you will cooperate fully with the Cabinet Office during this process.
I am extremely grateful for all the work you have done in the role as Secretary of State since March 2016. In particular, I would like to put on record my gratitude for all the support you have given to this Government in ensuring we honour the commitment to the people that we leave the European Union. Given your long service as Secretary of State, you can be proud of your record of delivery for the people of Wales, in particular in ensuring the abolition of tolls on the Severn bridges.
This follows an unstinting record of service to the Party in Wales with over a decade as Assembly Member for South Wales West where you were a vocal critic of the Welsh Labour government.

        This breaking news story is being updated.
      
