
# Family Of Late Billionaire Jon Huntsman To Give $150 Million For Mental Health At U of Utah

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kerry A. Dolan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kerryadolan/2019/11/04/family-of-late-billionaire-jon-huntsman-to-give-150-million-for-mental-health-at-u-of-utah/)

The family of the late chemicals billionaire Jon M. Huntsman has committed to give the University of Utah $150 million to create the Huntsman Mental Health Institute, the university announced on Monday. The institute will engage in mental health research, care, education and community outreach.The gift comes at a time of great need. In Utah, over half of adults with mental health issues are not receiving treatment, according to a recent study by the University of Utah’s Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute. That same study found that 40% of 12-to-17-year-olds in the state experiencing depression didn’t get treated. Part of the issue is a lack of child and adolescent psychiatrists in the majority of Utah’s counties. A separate study from Mental Health America found that Utah ranked 51stin mental health measures—behind all other states and Washington, D.C.
“All families are impacted by the effects of mental illness,” Karen Huntsman, the widow of Jon Huntsman (who died in February 2018), said in a statement. “This is the first step in positioning Utah as a national leader in identifying, caring for and seeking new treatments for families facing the difficult challenges that come with mental health. Our family invites the community to join us in supporting this important work.”
Her son Peter R. Huntsman, who is CEO of the Huntsman Foundation as well as chairman and CEO of specialty chemicals firm Huntsman Corp., shared with Forbes that mental health issues have touched his own family. “My wife and I are parents to eight children. Two of them in particular have had some real struggles. Anytime you’ve held a child who’s suffering in silence and agony because treatments aren’t working, there’s a sense of helplessness.”
Peter Huntsman hopes that the gift will be a catalyst to change mental health care in the state. But it’s one part of an effort that needs to involve many. “At the end of the day, it’s got to be a combination of the state getting involved, philanthropy and health care providers,” he said.
The gift will be paid out over 15 years from the Huntsman family foundation. The Huntsmans have a long relationship with the University of Utah. In 1995, the Huntsman Cancer Institute at the university was created with a $100 million donation.
“This is a remarkable and transformational gift for the University of Utah and for the state of Utah,” University of Utah President Ruth Watkins told Forbes. “The Huntsman family is committed to relieve suffering and addressing big issues. And they are committed to excellence.”  
Watkins acknowledged that mental health issues among the student body at the university are a concern, not just in Salt Lake City but also at college campuses across the country. “When university presidents get together, we talk,” she says.  “There is a lot of awareness.”
The gift will provide financial support to the University of Utah Health’s Department of Psychiatry and the full-service psychiatric hospital known as UNI (University Neuropsychiatric Institute). In addition, the donation will be used to support mental health services and screenings for the university’s 32,000 students as well as in rural areas across the state. The funding also will support university research aimed at identifying genetic risks and other factors that cause or contribute to mental illness. The university plans to rename UNI in recognition of this gift, identifying it as the Huntsman Mental Health Institute.  
“This grant is the culmination of years of interaction between the Huntsman family and UNI. This is a unique opportunity to bring together an immensely talented university with superb leadership and a philanthropic, generational commitment that we hope will only expand over time,” Peter R. Huntsman said in a statement. “It is past time to change the stigma and misperceptions about mental health.”
Peter’s brother Jon Huntsman, Jr., a former governor of Utah, served as U.S. Ambassador to Russia from October 2017 until October 2019.  

        If you or people you know are at risk of self-harm, the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline provides 24-hour support at 1-800-273-8255.
      
