
# Your letters for Nov. 6

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:47+00:00**

Author: **Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/letters/your-letters-for-nov-6-2)


        "If you don't have cash for a new truck — or in the case of the city any project that we could do without i.e. BRT or art projects — you don't rob Peter to pay Paul to pay for it, you just stop spending."
      
Paramedics are not overpaid, pampered or spoiled. We were under-resourced before, and now we’re broken.
Cost-cutting is better achieved through efficiency, not the lazy populist method of wage reduction without structural reform.
Our seniors, AISH, welfare and Indigenous populations are granted unlimited free taxpayer-funded ambulance transports. Daily we see this system being abused as a free taxi service. There is no satisfaction in telling a grieving spouse their partner is dead, knowing that we could have been there quicker. Much quicker, but we were tied up unnecessarily.
Dispatchers and paramedics have no legal authority to tell a patient that they don’t require an ambulance, that they should take a taxi to urgent care. Patients know this.
You want to cut 10 per cent of our costs? No problem. Fix our systemic problems. I’ll bet you could cut 15 per cent if those issues were fixed.

        Lester Brayham, Calgary
      
Like most Canadians I have been watching the efforts of environmentalists designed to shut down Alberta’s energy industry. The most obvious problem with this is illogic. If Canadians truly wished to make a difference for the environment, recognize a responsibility to limit hydrocarbon consumption, not production. If all Canadian families had only one vehicle, for example, that would make an immediate and measurable difference. If demand for hydrocarbons suddenly shrunk, Albertans in the oil and gas industry would move on. It is silly and self-destructive to destroy our economy with demand increasing. Most Canadians are not silly but it often seems that the country is being run by spoiled and tired 10 year olds. Just watch the recent leaders debate for evidence of this observation.

        Graham Baugh, Calgary
      
I got some basic business advise from a very smart person once. When doing your budget, operational needs are first priority and capital expenditures are next. If you don’t have enough cash for operations, you decrease capital spending until the first is met. If you don’t have cash for a new truck — or in the case of the city any project that we could do without i.e. BRT or art projects — you don’t rob Peter to pay Paul to pay for it, you just stop spending. Enough already.

        Randy Chomistek, Calgary
      

        Re: Alberta’s separatist past has no place in this debate, Nov. 5
      
Braid makes some valid points in his op-ed. For one: The Crown land where First Nations reside will have to decide whether to join an independent Alberta or remain a dependent and subservient territory of the Canadian government. And Braid has the temerity to write their “flawed but essential relations with Ottawa.” What has Ottawa ever done for First Nations except make some chiefs very wealthy? If First Nations decide to join Alberta, they are Albertans first.

        Jeffrey Anderson, Calgary
      
