
# Everlane's Cashmere Sale Is the Perfect Excuse to Stock Up on Sweaters

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Kelsey Mulvey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/fashion/shopping/a29689464/everlane-cashmere-sale-november-2019/?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM)

As far as we're concerned, no fall wardrobe is complete without a drawer full of cashmere. It doesn't matter if you favor a sweet cardigan, minimalist turtleneck, or a cropped pullover—great cashmere has the power to keep you warm, look stylish, and make you feel cozy.
Cashmere is notoriously expensive, but that's where Everlane comes in. Between its transparent pricing model and emphasis on sustainability, Everlane has quickly become one of our favorite brands for versatile, high-quality staples like work pants, T-shirts, and, of course, cashmere sweaters. For a limited time only, Everlane is offering everything in its cashmere collection for $100 a pop.
The Cashmere V-NeckEverlane$100.00 SHOP IT
The Cashmere SweatshirtEverlane$100.00 SHOP IT
The Cashmere CrewEverlane$100.00 SHOP IT
The Cashmere TurtleneckEverlane$130.00 SHOP IT
From mocknecks to cozy sweatshirts to a simple wrap, Everlane's cashmere section has something for everyone. (Yes, even the special guy in your life.) Of course, Everlane's cashmere collection doesn't just look good. Made out of cashmere that's sourced from Mongolia, Everlane's material is durable and gets softer with age. The brand's direct-to-consumer model means most pieces sell at a fair, affordable price, but it's rare to find great cashmere this low.
The Cashmere Crew CardiganEVERLANE$100.00 SHOP IT
The Cashmere Wrap SweaterEVERLANE$125.00 SHOP IT
The Cashmere Lantern SweaterEVERLANE$120.00 SHOP IT
The Cashmere Oversized V-NeckEVERLANE$100.00 SHOP IT
Everlane's cashmere sale ends on Tuesday, November 5, at 3 p.m. EST. Sizes, colors, and styles are selling out quickly, so get a head start on your holiday shopping now.
