
# Barcelona locate Gerard Pique’s young replacement

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:47:38+00:00**

Author: **Nishant Narayanan**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/03/barcelona-scouting-for-gerard-piques-replacement/)

After Barcelona’s recent defeat in La Liga against Levante on Saturday, it is evident that the Spanish giants need defensive reinforcement from the upcoming transfer window.
According to the ‘Marca’, Barca’s sporting director Eric Abidal has sent scouts to watch Rodrigo Caio on numerous occasions and the centre back has received favourable reports.
Reports claim that Eric Abidal’s assistant, Ramon Planes, has supervised him in Porto Alegre during the Gremio-Flamengo match.
The 26-year-old Brazilian has never left Brazil as he started his career in the youth system of Sao Paulo and made his way through to make 277 league appearance for the club. He later joined Flamengo in 2018, where he helped the club reach the finals of Copa Libertadores, which will be taking place on November 23 against River Plate.
The Catalans are currently struggling at the back with Pique and Clement Lenglet holding the defence for the past few months, while Umtiti remains unfit with a knee injury. Recent additions Jean-Clair Todibo and Ronald Araujo are still not ready for the first-team action according to Valverde who will be looking at Rodrigo Caio to strengthen his squad.
Transfermarkt reports that he is currently valued at €6million, making him a cheaper alternative to the likes of other defenders in the current market. The report, however, claims that Flamengo will be looking to value the Brazilian international around €30m, as there is also interest from the likes of Leicester City.
Do you think Rodrigo Caio will be a good fit for the Blaugrana?
