
# Speaker election candidates in full and how vote to replace John Bercow works

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:48:00+00:00**

Author: **Dan Bloom, https://www.facebook.com/mirrordanbloom**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/who-replace-speaker-john-bercow-19943849)

The race to succeed John Bercow as Commons Speaker takes place this afternoon as MPs jostle for one of the most powerful jobs in British politics.
MPs are electing a new Speaker for the first time in 10 years - less than 36 hours before Parliament dissolves for a general election.
On the same day Mr Bercow - a former Tory - will resign as MP for Buckingham - leading to a race in his seat. But that contest will likely now be lumped in with the pending election.
Current deputy Sir Lindsay Hoyle is the favourite while Labour grandee Harriet Harman is bidding to become only the second woman to hold the post.
Today's winner won't automatically be the Speaker in the next Parliament. But they'll be put forward as a single candidate to be 'confirmed' by MPs - so they're pretty likely to keep the role.
Only if MPs vote down the new Speaker in December will there be another full ballot.
 
It comes after Mr Bercow - regularly accused of anti-Brexit bias but hailed as a hero of Parliament by his fans - finally announced he will bow out after a decade.
The Speaker wept as he announced he would quit on October 31 in a declaration watched by his wife Sally.
The timing of his resignation was no coincidence. It meant the current Parliament - not a new one - could choose his replacement.
That is important because it means a group of MPs who are against a hard, no-deal Brexit will be choosing the next person to oversee the legislature. Many of them are bowing out when Parliament dissolves on Wednesday
So how will the Speaker election work and who is running? Heres everything you need to know.
MPs are voting for a new Speaker on Monday 4 November - the same sitting day that John Bercow quits as an MP.
Candidates must submit their nomination papers, signed by at least 12 MPs from at three parties, to Commons authorities between 9.30am and 10.30am on the day of the election.
Names of all the approved candidates are then published at 11am before a snap hustings in the Commons chamber at 2.30pm - consisting of a speech from each hopeful.
In the Speaker's chair for the debate will be Ken Clarke, the veteran Tory, because he is 'Father of the House' - the longest continuously-serving MP in the Commons.
MPs will then be given half an hour to vote for their favourite candidate on a ballot paper.
If no single candidate wins more than 50% of the vote, the lowest-ranked candidate (along with anyone who won less than 5%) is eliminated and there is another round of voting.
This continues until one candidate has won more than 50% of the total votes from MPs.
A motion is then put to the Commons proposing the winner as Speaker. It can go to a vote again but by this point, they are likely to win. Traditionally the Speaker is "dragged" to the grand seat, supposedly against their will.

        Labour, Chorley, age 62. Odds: 1/7
      
The Lancashire-born businessman went to private Lord's College in Bolton and ran his own screen-printing firm before becoming an MP in 1997.
He has been a Deputy Speaker for nine years where his no-nonsense manner led to clashes with MPs - including telling off the SNP for singing EU anthem Ode to Joy in 2017.
In the same week he had a fierce clash with ex-SNP leader Alex Salmond, with the pair shouting at each other across the chamber over time slots given to Brexit scrutiny.
Despite this Mr Hoyle is generally regarded as a popular figure who hasn't made enemies in the same way as Bercow.
There was an outpouring of tributes in 2017 when his 28-year-old daughter Natalie was found dead. An inquest recorded an open verdict.
Mr Hoyle was one of just three Labour MPs who did not declare their voting intention in the 2016 EU referendum. His Lancashire district backed Brexit by 57% to 43%.

        Labour, Camberwell & Peckham, age 69. Odds:  9/1
      
As Westminster's longest-serving female MP, the QC is known as the Mother of the House with 37 years' unbroken service.
She spent more than two decades on the Labour front bench including as Deputy Labour Leader, Tony Blair's first Minister for Women and Leader of the House of Commons. 
Born in London and educated at private St Paul's Girls' School, Ms Harman worked for the National Council for Civil Liberties (NCCL) before becoming an MP in 1982. Following a torrent of stories in the Daily Mail, she later said she "regretted" the NCCL's decision to grant affiliate status to a pro-paedophile group before she joined the staff.
When she was elected barely 100 women had served in the Commons in its history. Her decades of activism for women's rights led to mockery from right-wing pundits, including when she toured a pink bus round the country in 2015.
Her four-month stint as acting Labour leader, before Jeremy Corbyn took power, was marked by her decision not to oppose cruel Tory tax credit cuts that were later scrapped.
Other controversies included being banned from driving in 2004 after she was caught speeding at 99mph on the M4. While in government she also tried to block the release of detailed Parliamentary expenses data.
Due to her long experience and cross-party reputation, her name has been put forward as a possible caretaker Prime Minister if the government loses a no confidence vote.
Ms Harman was a prominent Remain-backer in 2016 and though she has promised to be "scrupulously neutral" on Brexit, she has also warned she will be "a champion for Parliament" if elected. Her warning that she will take a "robust" stance could spark fears she will be a continuity John Bercow.

        Conservative, Epping Forest, age 61. Odds:  7/1
      
The privately-educated solicitor from Paisley has spent six of her 22 years in Parliament as a Deputy Speaker, meaning she did not declare how she voted in the 2016 EU referendum.
She was a Special Advisor during the Thatcher and Major governments, and after her 1997 election was an early Tory backer of equalising the age of consent at 16 for gay men.
But she attracted controversy in 2016 when she allegedly criticised a pregnant MP for leaving a debate to eat.
She also "voluntarily" repaid £25,000 during the 2009 MPs' expenses scandal over claims relating to a second home.
Announcing her candidacy, she said the next Speaker should "definitely" be a woman as people need a "breath of fresh air" in Parliament.

        Labour, Hackney South & Shoreditch, age 50. Odds: Not available
      
The privately-schooled former journalist and councillor served on the London Assembly before her election in 2005.
As Gordon Brown's Identity Minister she was tasked with promoting the failed ID card scheme - but was left red-faced in 2009 when forgetting her own ID card at a photoshoot.
She later served as Shadow Energy Secretary under Ed Miliband before rising to prominence as the hard-bitten chair of the powerful Public Accounts Committee.
Pro-EU Ms Hillier voted Remain in the 2016 referendum, voted against triggering Article 50 in 2017, and earlier this year said Parliament should "seriously consider" delaying or revoking Article 50 to cancel Brexit.

        Labour, Rhondda, age 57. Odds:  10/1
      
The privately-schooled former Church of England vicar dabbled with Conservatism as a student, before leaving the priesthood in 1991 when he realised other members of the church believed the "Bible doesn't really like gays".
He moved to London and rose through the ranks of the capital's Labour groups through the 1990s before his election to Parliament in 2001.
He shot to prominence soon afterwards for his role exposing wrongdoing in the press, including extracting a confession by then-Sun editor Rebekah Wade in 2003 that the paper had "paid the police for information in the past."
He has become an outspoken voice on skin cancer after discovering he had melanoma on a trip to the barber.
The MP voted Remain in the 2016 referendum and said the "whole country should have a chance" to hold a second referendum on Brexit. His opening offer to MPs marked him out from John Bercow, emphasising that he would stick to rules and fairness.

        Labour, Doncaster Central, age 61. Odds:  Not available
      
The privately-educated MP began her career as John Prescott's assistant in the 1980s before her election to Parliament in 1997.
She spent almost a decade on Labour's front bench under Tony Blair and Gordon Brown before becoming the party's Chief Whip in 2010.
Her six years in the top job presided over a tumultuous time in the party when more than 170 Labour MPs voted no confidence in Jeremy Corbyn but he refused to quit.
Before becoming a deputy speaker in 2017, which bound her to rules of impartiality, Dame Rosie voted Remain in the EU referendum but said it was important to "respect" the nation's vote to leave - including in her Doncaster seat.

        Conservative, Gainsborough, age 69. Odds: 45/1
      
The privately-educated veteran MP since 1983 has only an outside chance due to his tub-thumping backing for Brexit.
He has highly conservative views on social issues including backing the anti-gay Section 28 and voting against civil partnerships.
Briefly a junior minister under John Major, the MP has spent all but three of his 36 years in Parliament as a backbencher including on the trade, procedure and parliamentary restoration committees.

        Conservative, North West Cambridgeshire, age 59. Odds: Not available
      

         
      
The MP since 2005 was born in Uganda and moved to Britain aged four, where he studied at a grammar school in Buckinghamshire.
He worked as a solicitor in the City of London in Hong Kong before joining Parliament. He has been a minister for the thorny areas of legal aid and work and pensions - both slashed by the Tories - and later Northern Ireland.

        
          Ruled themselves out: Charles Walker, Frank Field, Pete Wishart, Sir Henry Bellingham.
        
      

        
          Odds retrieved on November 4 from Ladbrokes.
        
      

        
           
        
      
