
# Yo! Sushi is Pulling Some Weird Shit Again So You Don't Forget it Exists

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:40:38+00:00**

Author: **Shabana Arif**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/yo-sushi-movember/)

Remember, remember, grow your 'stache for Movember - and get a discount at Yo! Sushi as a result.
The restaurant is capitalising on Movember - the month of mental health and moustaches - by offering discounts while encouraging men, and whoever else, to get together for some quality time and a natter about mental health. Or just enjoy some tasty grub together at the very least.
If you're participating in Movember, you could qualify for a discount depending on the size of your 'stache. Staff at the restaurant will whip out chopstick-style rulers to measure your upper lip decor - which will probably be as awkward as it sounds and then some. A 5cm moustache and above will get you a five per cent discount, 7cm plus will get you 20 per cent, and a majestic 10cm and over will net you a whopping 30 per cent off. The moustache measuring discount rolls out from November 11, so you have time to grow out your face fuzz before then.
If you don't have facial hair long enough to measure, you can stroll into your nearest branch with a friend and get 25 per cent off using the code Mate Date, which is aimed at encouraging people to open up to their pals about their various problems, and just life in general.
And the charity portion of the promotion comes into play with Yo! Sushi donating 10p from every gyoza from the limited edition Guy-oza Menu to Movember.
So celebrate your moustache and mental health by treating yourself to some discounted dinner this month.
