
# Hamilton Rugby Club march on to National League Cup quarter-final

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Andy McGilvray, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/andy-mcgilvray/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/hamilton-rugby-club-march-national-20764213)

Hamilton Rugby Club progressed in the National League Cup, but were made to work hard for their 48-24 first round win at Kirkcaldy.
That sets up a quarter-final clash against fellow Tennent’s National League 2 side GHK at Laigh Bent on Saturday, January 25.
With a league game against Kirkcaldy looming in a couple of weeks, this gives Hamilton an idea of what to expect.
The Fifers, playing to their strength in the pack, got their first try in just three minutes through Chris Mann, having caught the Bulls defence off guard from kick-off.
However, Hamilton steadied and quickly got back into the game, playing some good, controlled rugby.
Mann was yellow-carded and Hamilton chose to scrum the penalty, from which they released Ross Jamieson in space out wide to scamper in for Hamilton’s first try, levelling the scores at 5-5 in 18 minutes.
Discipline was key and it took another eight minutes for Hamilton to take the lead through good link-up play, sending Adam Ryan in under the posts to allow Owen McLeish an easy conversion on his 200th cap.
In this see-saw period of the match it was Kirkcaldy who notched an equalising try, with several phases of forward drives leading to a try for Josh Laird and an easy conversion.
That again spurred Hamilton into action and in 36 minutes, number 8 Scott Alexander barrelled over out wide to edge his side in front.
As half-time approached, Hamilton stole lineout balls and Max Crumlish forced his way over close to the posts for a try which was converted by McLeish.
Kirkcaldy responded straight from the kick-off, and some poor defending allowed them to cross out wide, reducing the half-time deficit to 24-17.
Hamilton then took control in the second half with two quick tries.
The first, from debutant winger Andrew Crawford, saw some crisp handling opening up space on the left for Crawford to dive over for an unconverted try.
Two minutes later Ross Inglis took the ball at inside-centre and ran a great line to cut open the Kirkcaldy defence, leaving an easy conversion for McLeish for 36-17.
Although Kirkcaldy countered with a try by Laird and conversion in 65 minutes, Hamilton were not to be denied and finished with a double for winger Ben Plant on 76 and 79 minutes, taking the score to 48-24.
“This was a good win on the road, against a strong Kirkcaldy outfit,” said coach Kenny Brown.
“We had a lot of young, inexperienced lads out there, and they all fronted up well.
“We do have a couple of things to look at in defence, but I am delighted with the win.
“We face them in the league in two weeks, so we know now how hard that match is going to be, and the lads are really up for it.”
