
# Pirates Dominate Chiefs In Recent Soweto Derby Goal Scorers

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/10-previous-soweto-derby-goal-scorers/666523)

With Orlando Pirates unbeaten in the Soweto derby for the past four years, Soccer Laduma takes a look at the 10 different goal-scorers in the most recent encounters.
In 11 previous meetings across all competitions, Bucs have won five, drawn five and loss just once against Kaizer Chiefs, with Rulani Mokwena now tasked with keeping Pirates’ unbeaten record alive.

        
          Read more: Chiefs vs Pirates: 10 Storytelling Images From Past Meetings
        
      
The Soweto derby is historically not a high scoring encounter, as seen with repetitive 0-0 and 1-1 draws in the past seasons, however, there has been some spectacular showdowns in the past years. 
While the likes of Tshegofatso Mabasa and Samir Nurkovic are expected to put up a show in front of goal this weekend, Soccer Laduma takes a look at 10 of the different and most recent goal-scorers in the encounter, who could look to once again step-up and set the scene alight:
Daniel Cardoso – scored a penalty for Chiefs in a 1-1 draw in the Absa Premiership in February this year.
Leonardo Castro – scored in Chiefs TKO semi-final loss in November 2018.
Thembinkosi Lorch – scored in Pirates TKO semi-final win in November 2018.
Justin Shonga - scored in Pirates TKO semi-final win in November 2018.
Innocent Maela – scored in Pirates 2-1 Absa Premiership win in October 2018.
Vincent Pule - scored in Pirates 2-1 Absa Premiership win in October 2018.
Khama Billiat – scored in Chiefs’ 2-1 Absa Premiership loss in October 2018.
Amigo Memela – scored twice in Pirates 3-1 Absa Premiership win in March 2018.
Joseph Malongoane (unlikely to play this weekend) – scored in Chiefs 1-1 draw in March 2017.
Tendai Ndoro (no longer at the club) – scored twice in Pirates 2-0 win over Chiefs in March 2016.
With an obvious exclusion of Ndoro and Malongoane, who do you think will definitely get on the score-sheet this weekend? Let us know in the comments section below.
