
# Maniac driver led police on 137mph chase before cops shunted car off road

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:49:22+00:00**

Author: **Tom Hitchenor**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/maniac-driver-led-police-137mph-20799577)

A driver led police on a high-speed 137mph chase down a motorway before his car was shunted off the road by police.
David Brennan then tried to fool officers into believing he wasn't behind the wheel of a stolen Mini Cooper  - but his actions were caught on camera.
The 23-year-old led was pursued along one of Britain's busiest stretches of motorway after officers spotted the vehicle at 3.20pm on September 18.
Central Motorway Police Group (CMPG) officers had been told to keep an eye out for the Mini which had been stolen in burglary in Halesowen, West Midlands, the Daily Record reported .
Brennan notched up speeds of up to 100mph as he raced past officers on the M54 near Wolverhampton.
As he reached Junction 10 of the M6 for Walsall, Brennan tried to head the wrong way up a slip road and officers decided to use tactical contact to bring him to a halt.
The banned motorist then jumped out of the driver's seat and into the back of the car and can be heard on camera telling cops: "I wasn't even driving."
An officer replies: "Yes you was mate. Its all on camera as well pal, so lets not be daft."
Unemployed Brennan, of Bartley Green, Birmingham, went on to admit dangerous driving and driving while disqualified and was jailed for 18 months at Birmingham Crown Court on Thursday.
He was also given a further three-year driving ban.
Sergeant Mitch Darby, of West Midlands Police, who pursued Brennan, said after the case: "This was appalling driving  on one of the busiest sections of motorway in the country, which put other drivers at risk.
"We had no option but to use our training to safely bring the pursuit to an end, before the Mini had a chance to go on to potentially be involved in a head-on collision on the slip road.
"Brennan thought he could pull the wool over our eyes with a quick jump over the seats and into the back of the car, but we'd seen it happen and it was all caught on video."
