
# Civil war within People’s Vote campaign could derail a second referendum

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:36:10+00:00**

Author: **Michael Savage**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/03/civil-war-in-peoples-vote-puts-at-risk-tactical-voting-for-referendum)


        Rift at campaign continues, putting at risk its tactical voting operation as the election approaches
      
The civil war engulfing the People’s Vote campaign has derailed the tactical voting exercise crucial to delivering a second Brexit referendum, senior campaign figures have claimed.
Dozens of staff members are still refusing to return to work a week after Roland Rudd, the campaign’s chairman, fired two senior figures and instigated a structural overhaul in what has been seen as a power grab. There are now accusations of locks being changed and staff claim they feel intimidated, with the split showing no sign of being resolved.
Opponents of Rudd’s overhaul said it had disabled the campaign just at the moment when anti-Brexit voters needed guidance on the best candidate to back to deliver a parliamentary majority for a second referendum.
They claim the People’s Vote recommendations would have differed in many seats when compared with the main tactical voting site currently operating, run by the Best for Britain campaign. They state that there were about 30 seats where the People’s Vote was planning to back Labour candidates, but where the Best for Britain site is backing the Lib Dems, and nine where it was expecting to back Labour candidates, in which the Best for Britain site advises voters to vote for anyone. There were more than 60 seats where the People’s Vote model was waiting for further polling evidence before making a recommendation, where Best for Britain is backing the Lib Dems.
Alastair Campbell, Tony Blair’s former communications chief and a People’s Vote supporter, said: “The team was taken off the pitch ahead of one of the most important weeks in this whole process. The campaign had a number of major initiatives planned for last week, including a tactical voting operation that was likely to become the gold standard in terms of analytics and also the reach into the debate.”
Naomi Smith, Best for Britain’s chief executive, defended her campaign’s findings: “Our data is from October and uses the technique which predicted Trump’s election, the hung parliament in 2017, and came within 0.6 percentage points of the exact result in Peterborough when other pollsters were caught cold. We plan to keep updating this based on the latest and best data.
“We have carefully stayed away from the ugly meltdown of People’s Vote. This attempt to drag us into their nasty little civil war does nothing but undermine the movement .”
Labour leaped on the claims that more of the party’s candidates should be backed. Emily Thornberry, the shadow foreign secretary, said: “This election, there will be a big tactical vote for Labour by those who want to stop Boris Johnson forcing his hard Brexit and a new era of austerity on our country. Liberal Democrat boasts that they can win hundreds of seats are not supported by the independent analysis done by the People’s Vote campaign.”
People’s Vote staff walked out after Rudd fired chief executive James McGrory, a former adviser to Nick Clegg, and Tom Baldwin, its director of communications who worked for Labour under Ed Miliband. The move took place after he had restructured the campaign around a new company.
Baldwin said: “We don’t dispute the accuracy of the Best for Britain poll, but believe using a number of different pieces of data, including previous election results and local factors, is a better way to make accurate and independent assessments.”
However, a People’s Vote source insisted that the tactical voting exercise would still take place closer to the election and that the recommendations were changing as new data emerged. “This election is the most important in a generation and tactical voting needs to be a central part of it. We are committed to giving our supporters the very best non-partisan advice,” said the source.
At the heart of the row are allegations that Rudd wants to support a realignment of politics around a pro-Remain political force, rather than concentrate on winning a second referendum. This is denied by Rudd’s camp, who say the restructuring was designed to ensure the campaign was in the best possible shape.
It comes after another week of acrimony. Scores of staff have now signed a letter to Rudd saying they do not want to return under the current management and alleging a “concerted campaign to intimidate, isolate and victimise staff”. The letter states: “The staff’s priority is to safely return to our workplace without further delay so that we can continue the campaign. Staff have been unable to get into the office as locks have been changed without prior notification or explanation.”
A source close to Rudd said: “Nothing prevents staff from returning to work, indeed they have been encouraged to return to work with the 20 or so that already have. Thirty remain on strike and new staff are being hired. Roland owns all the data, has paid all the staff and his decision will not be reversed.”
