
# Three councillors push for BRT in north Calgary 'at a fraction of the cost' of Green Line

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:22:20+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Babych**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/councillors-pivot-from-green-line-to-brt-as-solution-to-transit-deficit-in-north)

Three north Calgary councillors are looking at Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) as a solution for transit deficits until there is a stronger commitment to the construction of a new LRT line.
Councillors Jyoti Gondek, Sean Chu and Joe Magliocca are wanting to prioritize connectivity for people in north communities, who have limited access to rapid transit, over the first stage of the Green Line LRT. The three are voicing concerns following the provincial government’s announcement of a funding delay and “without cause” cancellation clause for the multi-billion dollar LRT project. 
Since the first phase of the train line wouldn’t reach many of the northern-most communities in Calgary, commuters in the north would remain in limbo waiting for the subsequent phases of the project. This is unacceptable to Gondek, who wants to see her constituents with access to rapid transit faster than the current plan.
“If the north is missing from phase one, is there a way to leverage a BRT as a potential option for the north?,” she says. “My biggest worry is that no one is focused on phase two and we are not ready to go if money magically materializes, which I don’t see happening for the next 10 or 20 years.”
Council expressed concern about the future funding of the Green Line after the release of the provincial budget indicated the UCP government is looking to add a 90-day cancellation clause on its $1.53 billion in Green Line funding. As well, a decision to cut $480 million in Green Line funding through a delay over the next four years could result in higher financing costs or delays to the construction timeline, according to city officials.
Even with the setbacks, Gondek doesn’t see the project disappearing because of its importance.
“But I am concerned about the way the funding will roll out,” said Gondek. “We need to send a message that we’re willing to look at projects that we have on the go to see how we can be more efficient and deliver on the full vision of the Green Line which, right now, is not being achieved.”
Gondek said a BRT is the best interim solution to get people on transit in the north until a better plan can be made to connect the north and south with an LRT.
“By the time you reach Ward 4, the buses are full. Quite often they’re full in Ward 3 and they’re passing you by and you have to wait for one or two express buses before you can get on. The ridership is here,” said Gondek.
Magliocca has always been opposed to the Green Line because of its $4.9 billion price tag so he sees a BRT system as the best resolution.
“We wouldn’t be talking billions of dollars anymore, we would be talking hundreds of millions with a BRT system. It’s a win-win for everyone because we’re moving Calgarians, it’s a win for our budget, our capital is a lot cheaper and the provincial government can be happy, too,” said Magliocca. “Maybe we needed that poison pill from the Kenney government to give us a wake-up call to start thinking outside the box.”
A BRT system would take less time to build because some of the infrastructure is already in place, according to Magliocca. He hopes the other councillors can understand where the three of them are coming from with their proposal.
“We can have a dedicated lane for a BRT from Point A to Point B, from the northern-most point we can move people all the way down to Seton at a fraction of the cost,” said the Ward 2 councillor.
Meanwhile, Chu has supported the Green Line in the past but sees a need for council to tighten the city’s belt at this time, while still providing people in the north with rapid transit.
“When you have a lot of money, then go ahead and buy a Ferrari, but if you don’t have a lot of money and still need to get from Point A to Point B then buy something cheaper,” said Chu.
