
# California wildfire: Trump slams governor and threatens to cut federal funds

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:29:30+00:00**

Author: **Associated Press**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2019/nov/03/california-wildfire-evacuation-orders-lifted-as-trump-blasts-newsom)

As authorities lifted all evacuation orders imposed by a wildfire that caused thousands to flee their homes north-west of Los Angeles, Donald Trump threatened to cut federal funding for aid during the kind of blazes that have hit California hard this fall.
Governor Gavin Newsom has done a “terrible job of forest management”, Trump tweeted. “When fires rage, the governor comes to the federal government for help. No more.”
Neither of the two major fires presently burning in California are on forest land.
California controls a small percentage of forest land. The federal government manages most of it.
Last year Trump made a similar threat as wildfires devastated Malibu and Paradise, California, accusing the state of “gross mismanagement” of forests.
At the time Newsom defended California’s wildfire prevention efforts while criticizing the federal government for not doing enough to help protect the state.
He replied on Sunday with a tweet of his own: “You don’t believe in climate change. You are excused from this conversation.”
On Friday, the governor said the state might take over Pacific Gas and Electric, the utility whose equipment has been linked to the start of several fires and which has overseen power shutoffs to hundreds of thousands as a result.
