
# Man wrecks McDonald's tills and threatens staff in front of terrified customers

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:11:31+00:00**

Author: **Chiara Fiorillo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/man-wrecks-mcdonalds-tills-threatens-20808477)

A man wrecked cash registers from a fast food restaurant in front of terrified staff and customers.
The incident took place at the Camberwell McDonald’s restaurant in Southwark, London, on Friday.
Shocking footage which emerged on social media shows the man appearing to threaten staff members.
The video shows a man wearing a Bob Marley backpack and khaki trousers wrecking the tills at the restaurant.
Two customers can be seen walking out of the McDonald's.
An employee is heard saying: “I can give you a chicken burger. I’ll give you a Big Mac, I’ll give you a Big Mac.”
McDonald's says staff members alerted police to the incident and a man was arrested.
After targeting the cash registers, the man appears to knock over a trolley behind the counter.
He then starts shouting at employees.
A woman screams when the man throws a wet floor sign to the ground as he makes his way behind the counter.
The video was posted on Twitter and attracted many reactions by social media users.
One person commented: "What the poor servers have to put up with. They look terrified."
Another Twitter user wrote: "No one steps in to help, just film the idiot."
“What the hell has happened to our capital? Someone must answer to the savagery happening multiple times every single day.”
A McDonald's spokesperson said: "The safety and security of our people and our customers is our absolute priority.
"Our staff quickly alerted the police and the individual was arrested.
"Fortunately no one was injured and we continue to assist the police with their enquiries."
