
# Councillors join forces on proposed wage cuts as workers protest outside city hall

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Meghan Potkins, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/councillors-join-forces-on-proposed-wage-cuts-as-workers-protest-outside-city-hall)

Calgary city councillors behind two proposals to either freeze or roll back wages for municipal employees are joining forces on a combined pitch to reduce wages that will be debated at a council meeting later this month.
Council’s finance committee asked proponents of the two proposals to work together on a motion that will be presented on Nov. 18. Both proposals rely on city unions agreeing to reopen recently settled contracts granting a wage increase of 1.5 per cent in 2020 after two years of wage freezes.
“It’s going to be a tough job to try to combine them, but I’m going to give it a shot,” said Coun. Jeromy Farkas, who frames his proposal to cut wages by five per cent as a job-saving strategy.
“My preference is more of a hard-line position,” he said. “I’m prepared for this council to limit job losses to retirement and attrition, that is achievable with a five per cent reduction. Whereas just forgoing an increase and (implementing a) freeze, I believe does not get council  to a position where we can make that commitment.”
Farkas and his colleagues, Sean Chu and Joe Magliocca, will have to hash out a new motion with Ward Sutherland and Jeff Davison, who are proposing a freeze on worker wages in 2020.
The move on council comes as labour unions in the city and across the province are ramping up their opposition to government cuts.
On Wednesday, about 200 union workers, led by the Canadian Union of Public Employees, rallied in front of city hall.
