
# Pet owners could be forced to pay new tax in return of dog licence-type scheme

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:43:04+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/pet-owners-could-forced-pay-20802304)

Dog owners could be forced to pay a new tax in a bid to stop people dumping unwanted animals and to encourage responsible ownership.
The tax would be similar to the old-style dog licences which were scrapped in 1987.
Academics from Middlesex University have been drafted in to find ways to help prevent dog dumping and other forms of animal abandonment.
Thousands of puppies which are bought as Christmas gifts are abandoned on the streets every year.
The study, due to be completed by the end of the year, was introduced by Junior Environment Minister, Zac Goldsmith.
 
Costing just 37p, the dog license was scrapped because it proved impossible to enforce.
The RSPCA backed proposals to reintroduce the licence in 2010. 
Dr Samantha Gaines, the animal charity’s dog welfare expert, said: “The RSPCA has long held the view that the reintroduction of a dog licensing scheme would be beneficial to managing the social and animal problems associated with dog ownership. 
“A licensing scheme has the potential to generate money that could be used to help improve dog welfare and tackle the issues around dog ownership, including anti-social behaviour involving dogs, dog bite incidents, stray dogs, population issues, as well as dog health and welfare.” 
In the Netherlands, many dog owners have to pay as much as £100 per pet dog as part of their license scheme. 
In Canada, money made from the Responsible Pet Ownership Bylaw in Calgary is used to deliver education, public awareness and dog safety services.
 
Ed Hayes, public affairs and policy manager at The Kennel Club, said: “Certainly, more needs to be done to tackle irresponsible dog owners in this country, but it’s misguided to believe that dog licensing or a similar annual ‘dog tax’ would be a solution. 
“Dog licensing is a flawed model. It has been tried and consequently scrapped by Defra in the past as it was neither enforceable nor effective. 
“Any annual tax would only impact on and penalise the responsible dog owner, whilst the irresponsible would continue to flout the law."
