
# Leeann Dempster makes next Hibs manager a transfer promise as she reveals timeframe

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:35:57+00:00**

Author: **Graeme Young, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/graeme-young/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/leeann-dempster-makes-next-hibs-20832627)

Determined Leeann Dempster hopes to land Hibs' next boss for before the end of the month as she pledges a transfer kitty to Paul Heckingbottom's successor.
Jack Ross and Stephen Robinson are among the bookies' favourites to replace the Englishman who was axed on Monday.
Dempter has revealed she will "lead" the search and will be supported by Hibs' majority shareholder Ron Gordon and sporting director Graeme Mathie.
And she has promised the new boss he will have money to spend with the Easter Road side just one point ahead of bottom side St Mirren. 
Dempster said: “This will be the fourth time we’ve recruited here.
"The process is ongoing and I’ll lead that, supported by Graeme Mathie and our new chairman Ron Gordon.
“This will be his (Gordon’s) first opportunity to have that experience as well.
"The three of us will be pushing on with that. We want to try to get the appointment right and we’ll take as much time as we need to do that.
“I would hope that we’ll have someone in place by the end of the month.
"That would be a loose target. It’s a relatively wide net. We’re in the position where we have to go through things properly and make considerations. There’s no outstanding frontrunner.
“We’re very open-minded in terms of the individual we’re looking for but we’ll go through the process as we have in the past. We’re determined to find the right person and people.
"The challenge will be on the guys in recruitment to make the adjustments we need in January because I think it’s obvious that we need a few.”
The club's chief executive gave the clearest indication that Heckingbottom's mass recruitment drive that focused on signing players from the lower leagues in England hasn't reaped rewards.
 
The capture of £350,000 Christian Doidge from Forest Green Rovers has been an unmitigated disaster with the misfiring striker yet to net a Premiership goal. Joe Newell is another who has failed to make an impact in Leith.
And Dempster insists the new man will be handed the chance to put his own mark on a squad bereft of confidence.
Dempster added: "I think it’s fair to say, with some hindsight, that there are areas we want to strengthen.
“The work will be done in January to try to do that.
"If we lived our life in hindsight we’d be winning the Champions League. We make choices and changes as they come towards us."
