
# What’s going on Tuesday?

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **BrooklynVegan Staff**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/whats-going-on-tuesday-186/)

You can browse our full NYC show calendar for all of tonight’s shows, but here are some highlights…
Cinematic Orchestra, Photay, PBDY @ Brooklyn SteelBritish electronic vets The Cinematic Orchestra recently released their first album in 12 years, To Believe (ft. Moses Sumney, Roots Manuva, and more), and now they’re on their first North American tour in over ten years.
Big K.R.I.T., Rapsody, Domani Harris @ Webster HallBig K.R.I.T. and Rapsody are both highly skilled in traditional bars/lyricism, and they both favor jazz and soul-informed production, so they’re sure to make for an excellent pairing tonight.
Great Grandpa, Trace Mountains, Dump Him @ ElsewhereSeattle’s Great Grandpa really leveled up for this year’s Four of Arrows, which is one of the finest indie rock albums (in a Death Cab/Rilo Kiley kind of way) in recent memory.
Hayden Thorpe @ National Sawdust When Wild Beasts broke up last year, both Hayden Thorpe and Tom Fleming launched solo projects. Hayden’s went the direction of powerful piano torch ballads and an intimate space like National Sawdust will be a near-perfect place to experience that.
New York Comedy FestivalThe 2019 New York Comedy Festival gets into high gear today, with shows all over the five boroughs, and Tuesday’s lineup includes Jenny Slate, The Writers of SNL, Matteo Lane, Chris Gethard, and lots, lots more.
Purple Pilgrims, L’Rain, Deradoorian, C. Spencer Yeh @ Union PoolNew Zealand duo Purple Pilgrims recently released their sophomore album Perfumed Earth via Flying Nun. Sisters Valentine and Clementine Nixon made the record in a “wooden sanctuary hidden deep in the wilds of Tapu” and it definitely sounds like they were in touch with the children of the forest on this beautiful album. (Think a more arboraceous Cocteau Twins or Beach House.) This is the first of their three Tuesday residency at Union Pool.
White Reaper, The Nude Party, Wombo @ Bowery BallroomLouisville, KY rock band White Reaper just released their hooky new album You Deserve Love and bring their energetic live show to Bowery, with an added jolt of electricity from party centric garage-psych band The Nude Party.
Dolly Parton, Nile Rodgers & Chic @ Hammerstein BallroomDolly’s flying up from Pigeon Forge just for this show with Nile Rodgers and Chic, which is a benefit for Rodgers’ We Are Family Foundation.
Small Black, Gibbz @ House of YesDO NYC is celebrating its 7th birthday with this free show at Bushwick’s House of Yes featuring Brooklyn mainstays Small Black, Gibbz, and some complimentary refreshments. You do need to RSVP.
Fruit Bats, Andrew Combs @ Le Poisson RougeLPR hosts a very solid double bill of indie folk.
Kindness, Maxo, AKUA @ Music Hall of WilliamsburgElectronic pop artist Kindness continues to be in very good company on his new album (Robyn, Jazmine Sullivan, Sampha, and more are on it), and he supports that album in NYC tonight.
The Last Waltz @ The Capitol TheatreAn all-star lineup of jam and Americana-friendly artists will do a tour in tribute to The Band’s legendary farewell concert The Last Waltz, including Warren Haynes, Jamey Johnson, Lukas Nelson, John Medeski, Don Was, Terence Higgins, Dave Malone, Cyril Neville, and more. The tour begins tonight.
Dead & Company @ NYCB LIVE: Nassau Veterans Memorial ColiseumDead & Company began their Fall Fun Run at MSG on Halloween, and tonight they kick off a two-night stand at the Coliseum. As you’d expect, they mixed up the setlists a lot at the MSG shows, and we can probably count on more surprises this week.
Flea (book event) @ Powerhouse ArenaMichael Peter Balzary has had an eventful life. He’s played bass, as Flea, in Red Hot Chili Peppers — one of the most notoriously wild bands of the ’80s and ’90s — for nearly 40 years, while maintaining an active acting career, and has gone on to collaborate with Tom Waits, Thom Yorke and more. It’s all chronicled in his new memoir, Acid for the Children, which he’ll be talking about at this event.
Active Child @ Rough TradeIt’s been nearly five years since Active Child’s last album and he’s had a flurry of activity lately, releasing a few new singles. We may hear even more of what’s to come tonight.
For all of tonight’s shows, and tomorrow’s, check out our NYC concert calendar.
—

        STAY IN TOUCH
      
Find BrooklynVegan on FACEBOOK and TWITTER and INSTAGRAM and YOUTUBE and SPOTIFY and SNAPCHAT.
For even more NYC show info, follow @BVNYCshows on Twitter.
Join our EMAIL LIST.
For even more metal, visit Invisible Oranges and follow them on Facebook & Twitter.
What else?
