
# Adobe Flaunts Timesaving Tool That Makes Tweaking & Animating Fonts A Breeze

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mikelle Leow**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407234/Adobe-Flaunts-Timesaving-Tool-That-Makes-Tweaking-Animating-Fonts-A-Breeze/)

Consumers today are dealt with information overload, so what do brands do to draw their attention to texts? Animate them. While live fonts are becoming more of a necessity than a novelty, the process of creating them is painstaking. If Adobe’s Fantastic Fonts tool ever makes it out, it would be a breath of fresh air for type and graphic designers. This week, the company held its MAX 2019 event, where it showcased some R&D experiments developed by employees. Among the Sneaks was Fantastic Fonts, which promises to make animating fonts “quick and painless.” On Tuesday, Adobe computer scientist Nirmal Kumawat showed off the timesaving tool to comedian John Mulaney. Using an iPad, Kumawat easily adjusted the weights of a typeface with sliders. He also unveiled a few options set to help brands grab the attention of social media story-viewing audiences. With the Fantastic Fonts iOS app, designers can add backgrounds to their fonts and animate them with presets like “wave,” “wind,” “fire,” and “dance.” Advertisement Advertisement As with many Adobe Sneaks, there is no confirmation if this feature will be part of Adobe’s product roadmap, at least in the foreseeable future. In the meantime, see how the incredible tool works below. You can check out more experiments teased by Adobe over at its blog post.
