
# How To Use Customer Data To Boost Your Business

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Thomas Griffin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2019/11/06/how-to-use-customer-data-to-boost-your-business/)

Thanks to technology today, businesses large and small are able to easily gather customer data. But are you making use of that data?Companies that analyze and use their customer data can see big benefits. In fact, according to research conducted by Harvard Business Review, 58% of enterprises are seeing "a significant increase in customer retention and loyalty as a result of the use of customer analytics."
Here's how to use customer data to boost your business.

        Lower your customer acquisition cost.
      
From my experience, one of the most important metrics you need to track for your business is your customer acquisition cost (CAC). Customer acquisition cost is the total amount of money it takes to make a sale to a customer — from the introduction of the product all the way to the closing of the sale. For instance, if a company spends $500 on marketing and sales in a year and gets 500 new customers, their customer acquisition cost is $1.
Lowering your CAC will help you grow your business and save money at the same time, so you need to use your customer data to achieve a lower CAC. For example, if you're using paid ads to drive traffic to different pages on your site, check out your Google Analytics account to find out which page has a higher conversion rate. Then, rework your strategy to send all of your traffic to the higher-converting page for better results and a lower CAC.

        Refine your marketing strategy.
      
Similar to using customer analytics to lower your customer acquisition costs, you can also use customer data to eliminate other wasteful marketing spending. There are a few different ways you can do this.
One way is to use customer data to provide personalized marketing campaigns to your audience. Using customer data from Google Analytics and Facebook Insights, for example, can help you discover more about your customers, such as their demographics, interests and behaviors. You can then segment your customers to send them personalized messages that are more relevant and attention-grabbing.
You can also look at your top traffic sources in Google Analytics to determine where you should focus your efforts. For instance, if much of your website traffic is coming from Facebook, you can ramp up your Facebook strategy and pull back on other platforms that aren't performing as well for you.

        Provide a better customer experience.
      
When you think of customer data, insights from Google Analytics usually come to mind. However, I believe there's a lot of value in the data that's provided via customer feedback and reviews as well. By analyzing the results from customer feedback surveys and online reviews, you can discover how to provide a better customer experience. Your customers will tell you exactly what they want and need from you, so you need to listen to them, implement their ideas and improve the processes they struggle with.
At the same time, you can also take a look at Google Analytics again to improve the online customer experience. For instance, if your product education page has a high exit rate, perhaps there's too much information on the page and it confuses users. It should be A/B tested in order to keep users around longer and increase conversions.

        Generate more sales.
      
Generating more sales is the key to growing any business. How can you use customer data to encourage your customers to buy more from you? Well, consider taking a page out of Amazon's book.
Amazon uses customer data such as when a consumer makes a purchase, rates or likes an item and the behaviors of similar customers to provide accurate product recommendations. They also look at purchasing behavior to determine "Frequently Bought Together" items.
By analyzing customer data, you can send offers to your customers that will make them think, "Wow, that's exactly what I need!"
Customer data is only valuable when you make use of it. According to research conducted by Gallup, "companies that apply the principles of behavioral economics outperform their peers by 85% in sales growth and more than 25% in gross margin." With these tips on how to use customer data to boost your business, you can take out the guesswork and make informed decisions for your business.
