
# Murder charges laid against father after young boys found dead in Brampton, Ont. home

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Kayla Goodfield, Multi-Platform Writer, CTV News Toronto**

Original: [toronto.ctvnews.ca](https://toronto.ctvnews.ca/murder-charges-laid-against-father-after-young-boys-found-dead-in-brampton-ont-home-1.4673951)

TORONTO – A 52-year-old father is now facing two counts of first-degree murder after a nine-year-old boy and a 12-year-old boy were found dead inside a Brampton, Ont. home late Wednesday night.
Emergency crews were called to a residence on Hiberton Crescent, located in the area of Sandalwood Parkway West and Creditview Road, shortly before 11 p.m. for a medical assistance call that came from inside the home.
Upon arrival at the scene, officers said they located the two young boys. They were found with no obvious signs of trauma, according to police, and were pronounced dead at the scene.
While investigators have not named the children, friends and neighbours have identified the young boys to CP24 as Jonathan, 12, and Nicolas Bastidas, 9.
“When we attended we did not find any signs of trauma to the children. It was a little later on that it was determined to be a suspicious death investigation,” Const. Heather Cannon with Peel Regional Police told reporters at the scene on Thursday afternoon.
“Because there weren’t obvious signs of trauma, that’s where the coroner attended and that’s when it was determined that it was suspicious and that’s when our homicide and missing persons bureau was notified and we took over the investigation.”
The cause of death for the young boys has not been released by officials.
“It’s still early on with that so our investigators are still investigating and canvassing and speaking with people, but as far as the actual cause of death, we are not speaking to that at this point,” Cannon said.
“It’s hard during an investigation like this – there are things that we won’t be speaking to just to maintain the integrity of the investigation.”
While updating the case, Cannon confirmed charges had been laid against the boys’ father Edwin Bastidas. He appeared in court Thursday morning. 
Cannon added that investigators were not looking for any additional suspects.
“The investigators have been interviewing and have gotten to the point where they have charged somebody with first-degree murder,” she said.
While Cannon was able to confirm that the 911 call was made from inside the home, she was not able to speak to who reached out to officials.

        Officers continue to canvass neighbourhood
      
Few additional details have been released in the investigation thus far, but several police cruisers and forensic officers were seen canvassing the area collecting evidence throughout the day on Thursday.
When asked if there was any possible threat to public safety, Cannon said no, noting that this is believed to be an “isolated incident.”
