
# Xiaomi Mi TV 5, Mi TV 5 Pro officially launched in China - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:30:36+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/xiaomi-tv-5-mi-tv-5-pro-officially-launched-in-china/)

Xiaomi Mi TV 5, Mi TV 5 Pro officially launched in China5 (100%) 3 votes
The much-awaited November 5th by Xiaomi is here. As expected, the company has a couple of products lineup for the unveiling. Kicking things off, the brand has today expanded its Smart TV lineup with the launch of the Xiaomi Mi TV 5 series. The TV unveiled today is actually the Xiaomi Mi TV 5 series, and the Mi TV 5 Pro, and as expected, there are a number of them that make up the series.
There isn’t much that we already do not know about the TV as the company already revealed all prior to today. First off, the Xiaomi TV 5 Pro comes in three variants –  55-inch, 65-inch, and 75-inch Xiaomi TV 5 Pro.
The three variants are all encased in an aluminum frame and come with a screw-less design and are just 5.9mm thick with little or no bezel. At 1.8mm, the bezel is about 47.1 percent narrower compared to the Mi TV 4. The key highlights of the Mi TV 5 Pro is its Quantum Dot display, HDR 10+, support MEMC motion compensation, and 8K video support.
The Mi TV 5 Pro run on PatchWall UI with 4GB of RAM and 64GB of internal storage to ensure smoother performance.  And on the final note, the TV comes with Dolby Audio and DTS HD Sound.
Much like the Mi TV 5 Pro, the Xiaomi Mi TV 5 series comes in three variants one with a-  55-inch screen, a 65-inch screen, and a 75-inch screen. The designs and internals are all the same, though the Mi TV 5 doesn’t come with Quantum Dot display. It also comes with 3GB of RAM, and 32GB of storage.
The Mi TV 5 Pro price in China starts at 3,699 Yuan /$537 for the 55-inch model, while the 65-inch and 75-inch model costs 4,999 Yuan/ $1,425 and 9,999 Yuan/$1,425 in that order.
The cheaper Mi TV 5, on the other hand, starts at 2999 yuan for the 55-inch version and goes up to 3999 yuan, and 7999 yuan for the 65-inch and 75-inch models respectively.
