
# Man left confused after waking up in strange Balloch house with knife in bag

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:46:26+00:00**

Author: **Lennox Herald, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/lennox-herald/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/man-left-confused-after-waking-20830892)

A man was discovered with a large knife in his bag after calling the cops for help to get home after waking up in a strange house.
Robert Logan, who told officers he had no connections with the area, found himself in a property close to Balloch train station in the middle of the night then left to try and get a train or bus.
When he couldn’t, he called police from a payphone and they came to find him before discovering a large blade within a holdall he had on him.
The 38-year-old, whose address was given as Greenock prison, last week appeared at Dumbarton Sheriff Court where the bizarre set of circumstances were narrated by fiscal depute Kevin Docherty.
 
He said: “At around 12.30am, Logan contacted police from a phonebox near to the train station.
“He told the officers he had woken up in a strange house and he had no money or people he could contact in order for him to be conveyed back home.
“Police officers attended. He appeared to be confused.
“He said he had no recollection of how he came to be in Balloch and had no means to go home and further advised the officers he had bipolar.
“He said ‘I have never been to Balloch before and don’t know anyone there’.”
The court was told the rain was pouring down at the time and officers asked Logan to sit in their vehicle. They asked if he had any ID on him and he started looking in a holdall he had with him.
The fiscal depute continued: “One of the officers offered to help him and then spotted that there was a large knife within the holdall, that knife being approximately 12cm in length.
“That was removed from the bag and Logan immediately said ‘I don’t know how the knife got in my bag’.”
 
No other items were found and Logan was arrested. He was taken to the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley and assessed following the comments he made to officers about his mental health and the fact he didn’t know how he ended up in Balloch.
He was, however, deemed fit to be detained by police officers.
Logan admitted in court having the knife in his possession at Tullichewan Road and elsewhere on July 11 this year while he was on bail from Airdrie Sheriff Court.
His defence lawyer told the court his client has previous convictions including one for a similar offence although this was committed around 10 years ago.
He explained he is currently serving a prison sentence for a domestic incident with his earliest release date next month.

        Family of Alexandria man fighting for life in Bali plea to bring him home
      
Acknowledging that his client has mental health difficulties, which he had been receiving treatment for before being taken into custody, the solicitor continued: “The circumstances are slightly unusual.
“He doesn’t come from here. He has no connection with Balloch. He comes from Coatbridge.
“He doesn’t know how he ended up here. He woke up in a strange house and walked to the end of the street hoping to get a train or bus.
“He didn’t, it was raining, he phoned the police and volunteered himself into police custody.”
Deferring sentence until later this month and referring to the knife as “not a trivial item”, Sheriff William Gallacher said: “The whole circumstances are entirely unusual.”
For more local news, click here
