
# 6 celebrities who were virtually unrecognisable this Halloween

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:05:44+00:00**

Author: **https://tribune.com.pk/author/8624/sarah-tribune/, Tribune.com.pk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2091440/4-6-celebrities-virtually-unrecognisable-halloween/)

KARACHI: This Halloween, celebrities far and wide put their best feet forward costumes-wise, looking almost unrecognisable. Some of our very own desi stars jumped onto the bandwagon, with Mawra Hocane the perfect cat and Mushk Kaleem, who opted for a dark and Gothic look.
Elsewhere, celebs put on a dramatic show by dressing up as some of their favourite characters. And they did not disappoint. From American-Palestinian model Bella Hadid as a prehistoric cartoon character (and winning headlines), to singer Ariana Grande looking terrifying (while many other celebrities dressed up as, well, her), there was plenty of fun looks to go around.
Let’s take a look at some of the  best costumes of Halloween 2019.

        Mawra Hocane
      
The actor stepped up her game, sharing her Catwoman-inspired look via Instagram. She was seen sporting an all-black outfit and a lacy eye mask and red lips. Sexy, to say the least!

        Mushk Kaleem
      
The model turned into an evil swan princess from Natalie Portman’s psychological thriller Black Swan. Muskh did Gothic ballerina to its finest by painting her face white, using black shadow all over her lids and wearing a black tutu.

        Sonam Kapoor and Anand Ahuja
      
The Zoya Factor actor recently shared a few pictures on her Instagram handle where she flaunted her Halloween costume. However, her outfit has a ‘desi’ twist as she dresses herself as Anarkali from Mughal – E – Azam. The star also wore barriers on her hands and neck to add that extra tinge of drama to her costume. Kapoor added yet another picture in which she can be seen striking a pose with husband Anand Ahuja. The two of them dress as Salim – Anarkali which sent fans into a frenzy.

        Bella Hadid
      
The supermodel sister of American-Palestinian model Gigi Hadid, who has been named the most beautiful woman according to ‘science’ by cosmetic surgeon Dr Julian De Silva, dressed up as Fred Flinstone from the famous children’s cartoon. Who knew the Flintstones could be so chic? Thank you to Bella and her bone-shaped earrings for this Halloween revelation.

        Kylie Jenner
      
The Kardashian-Jenner clan member, as usual, went all out by recreating timeless old Hollywood star, Marilyn Monroe. In a new spread for V Magazine, Jenner transformed into the late sex symbol, recreating her iconic Diamonds Are a Girl’s Best Friend video. Some of her other costumes included The Little Mermaid‘s Ariel, Madonna, and a Playboy bunny.
Of course, we can’t forget Kylie dressing up her one-year old daughter Stormi as well, herself.

        Ariana Grande
      
The 7 Rings songstress is so used to other celebrities dressing up as her that she decided to go a tad creepy herself. She recreated an iconic (and incredibly scary) makeup look from The Twilight Zone for Halloween.
