
# US MS-ISAC Releases the October List of End of Support Software

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:01:22+00:00**

Author: **Lawrence Abrams**

Original: [BleepingComputer](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/software/us-ms-isac-releases-the-october-list-of-end-of-support-software/)

The Multi-State Information Sharing and Analysis Center (MS-ISAC) of the Center for Internet Security has a released the October 2019 list of of software that is currently in or nearing end of support.
When software has reached end of support (EoS), it means the developers will no longer release fixes for any bugs that are found in the software. This includes fixes for security vulnerabilities that may be discovered.
As you can imagine, using outdated software that no longer receives security fixes is a risk as it could allow attackers to exploit vulnerabilities to steal data, execute commands, or install malware on the computer.
For this reason, it is suggested that users always upgrade EoS software to the latest version so that they continue to receive security updates.
The MS-ISAC is a division of the non-profit Center for Internet Security that focuses on improving the cybersecurity posture for United States state, local, and tribal governments.
As part of this mission, each month the MS-ISAC releases a monthly report detailing the list of software that is in or reaching end of support.
"Replacing software and firmware/hardware before it reaches EOS will significantly reduce any risks and costs associated with EOS. The process of finding EOS dates and locating all the instances of obsolete products can be a difficult and time-consuming task. The Multi-State Information Sharing and Analysis Center (MS-ISAC) compiles a monthly report for EOS software with dates in the next 12 months."
In the October 2019 Update, you will find the software from companies such as Adobe, Oracle, Microsoft, IBM, TrendMicro, and VMWare that are in or nearing EoS.
If you are using a listed product, it is strongly advised that you update your software to a supported version as soon as possible.
