
# Son 'Devastated' After Gomes Ankle Break

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/heung-min-son-devastated-after-andre-gomes-ankle-break/666665)

After Heung-min Son's tackle caused Andre Gomes to fall awkwardly and suffer a horrific ankle break, Tottenham Hotspur manager Mauricio Pochettino revealed the state of his South Korean superstar, as well as what happened in the Spurs dressing room after the game.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see reactions to Gomes' injury on Sunday evening.
        
      
With Spurs leading 1-0, Son clipped the former FC Barcelona midfielder's foot in what appeared to be an attempt to stop Everton from going forward in search of an equaliser.
Gomes, 26, then landed awkwardly before crashing into Ivory Coast right-back Serge Aurier, suffering a dislocated fracture on his right ankle.
Referee Martin Atkinson initially showed Son a yellow card, but once the extent of the injury became clear, the match official gave the 27-year-old his marching orders.
The red card, however, seemed almost irrelevant at the time it was handed out as Son, along with most of the players on the pitch, were far more concerned about the badly hurt Gomes.
The distraught South Korean made his way to the dressing room, where he was believed to be inconsolable, with Everton going on to draw level through substitute Cenk Tosun in the 98th minute.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
After the game and unfortunate event, Pochettino thanked Everton captain Seamus Coleman for sympathising with Son in the Spurs changing room, and sent his best wishes to Gomes.
"The players from Everton that were fantastic, I want to say thank you," he said, according to the The Independent.
"The captain, Coleman, came to the dressing room to console Sonny. Now it's very calm. I want to say thank you to the players and of course Coleman who came in on behalf of the Everton squad.
"We feel so sorry for Andre, but that is football. That is one of the consequences. It was never the intention of Sonny to go and make this type of tackle that is so bad, only go to challenge for the ball.
"I think what happened, you know, it's terrible for him, his family and Everton. We can only show our support to him and to Everton too.
"Sonny was devastated. In the moment, it was a little bit confusing because no one knows on the pitch when it was the action, everyone believed it was a bad tackle. That was an emotion in that moment that was a little bit confusing.
"After, when everyone watched on TV, that the action was very, very bad luck. We all feel sorry for Andre and I want to send my best wishes to him and his family. In this tough moment, we want to send on behalf of the squad and everyone else our best wishes to recover soon."

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
Everton confirmed that Gomes, whose loan move from Barca was made permanent before the start of this season, will have surgery on his ankle on Monday.  
