
# Blantyre Reverend drops five dress sizes

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shirley Bartynek, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/shirley-bartynek/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/blantyre-reverend-drops-five-dress-20765938)

A Blantyre minister who was never a fan of diet clubs is now singing their praises.
The Reverend Sarah Ross, of Blantyre Old Parish Church, has dropped from a size 18 to a size 8 in just a few months thanks to WW (the new Weight Watchers)
.
Now she is inspiring other ministers to lose weight and has been overwhelmed by the backing of her congregation.
The 43-year-old, who started her weight loss journey weighing 13st 12.5lbs, has now slimmed down to 9st 13lbs, a weight she has not seen in 25 years.
Sarah explained: “As someone in the public eye, having my sparkle back is important, being able to be confident yet gentle, creative, innovative and full of energy.
“Now I know I am honouring my life – a gift given to me, and only I can treasure this gift.
“I now run 5km three times a week, and sometimes 10km. I am fitter and healthier and make much more effort to eat healthier.
“I completed my first 10km race in June 2019, something I have always wanted to do, but was never fit or confident enough. I have also just started netball for the first time since high school and I am loving it.”
Church of Scotland minister Sarah has a congregation of over 100, and their support has been appreciated.
She explained: “Often, I have been asked if I am well and losing weight on purpose.
“Perhaps in my line of work, sudden weight loss is the sign of something else. I never intended to be an inspiration to others, at least it was never my goal.
“Now the irony is that as someone who didn’t like diet clubs, I am singing the praises of WW.
“I deal with requests for information from colleagues and friends, and I’m happy to have pointed a few in the right direction.”
Sarah made her decision to lose weight as a New Year resolution for 2019.
She added: “The latter part of 2018 had been very challenging due to a traumatic event in my work.
“It had affected my confidence, and I hit a very low point in my mood and sense of self. Despite being a minister and a person of faith, I found myself going through the motions.
“Christmas, a season that normally I love, did very little for me. Of course, there were highlights, and I think the highlights showed me how far I had fallen from my bright, optimistic, hopeful self.
“With the beginning of a new year, an opportunity to start a new chapter, make resolutions and make 2019 my year I decided to take back my life. I sent a message to my friend Danielle asking her to join me in doing the Couchto5K app.
“Running, something I never thought I could do, was something I had dipped in and out of through previous years, but my general fitness levels were poor. She agreed she would support me if I would join her at WW. I didn’t have any confidence in diet classes, but being a fair person at heart, I felt I couldn’t make her do my challenge and not do hers.
“So, reluctantly I went to the first workshop with Danni to Calderwood Community Centre, where honestly, I felt like I was in a strange universe. I had to work hard to swallow my cynicism, but the coach Christine Fleming was very welcoming, and Danni held my hand, not literally, but I know there is not a chance I would have walked in myself.
“Since that first workshop, I haven’t missed one, unless I was on holiday, and now count all the members as friends. Sharing the journey with Danni, Christine and others at 8am on a Saturday morning has been worth it.”
