
# Barcelona: Lionel Messi’s favourite set to take up managerial role in December

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:29:49+00:00**

Author: **Atharva Khadilkar**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/07/barcelona-lionel-messis-favourite-set-take-managerial-role-december/)

Another Barcelona game ended in an unfavourable manner for the Catalan giants after they were held to a goalless draw at the Camp Nou by Slavia Praha on Tuesday evening’s Champions League clash. This was the second consecutive match in which the Blaugrana were unable to get the win and deservedly so, Ernesto Valverde is under scrutiny.
The former Athletic Bilbao boss has been on the brink of the Barca sack since his side was dumped out of the Champions League by Liverpool and subsequently lost the Copa del Rey Final to Valencia in May this year. But interestingly, Valverde has stayed on for six months after a turbulent end to the 2018/19 campaign in which the club was tipped to win a treble.
Reports have now claimed that the 55 year old now has been given time to save his job until December 18, when Real Madrid visit Barcelona. Ahead of that, the Catalans have away visits to Inter Milan and Atletico Madrid, in addition to a home clash against Borussia Dortmund so it is foreseeable for Valverde to be sacked even before the El Clasico.
Netherlands’ manager Ronald Koeman has become the prime target for the Blaugrana to replace Ernesto Valverde with, but the former Everton boss has committed to staying with his nation’s service at least until Euro 2020, but admitted that his contract consisted of a release clause that allowed him to go to the Camp Nou in the next summer.
Fox Sports has now reported that River Plate boss Marcelo Gallardo who was one of the names who could replace Ernesto Valverde, is all set to take up the hot seat in Catalonia in December. This claim has been made by Argentinian manager Claudio Borghi who insisted that Lionel Messi’s compatriot may be on Barca’s books soon.
Ernesto Valverde has been walking on thin ice ever since the 2019/20 campaign kicked off with Barca being on the losing end at Athletic Bilbao, but it is hard to say the manager being shown the exit door especially with Ronald Koeman unavailable until the summer. Nevertheless, it could be possible that the club appoints an interim coach.
Do you think Marcelo Gallardo would be the right man or should the club wait for European candidate?
