
# Bournemouth 1-0 Man Utd: 5 talking points as Josh King fires Cherries to victory

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:21:01+00:00**

Author: **Darren Lewis, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-lewis/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/match-reports/bournemouth-1-0-man-utd-20794923)

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer saw Manchester United ’s brief revival ended by Reds reject Joshua King.
The Bournemouth forward, 27, produced an outstanding goal on the stroke of half time - lifting the ball over Aaron Wan Bissaka before volleying past David de Gea.
The win sent Eddie Howe’s men above United in the Premier League table to pile the pressure back on to Solskjaer.
King spent four years with the Norwegian’s reserves at Old Trafford. But he appeared just once in United’s senior team, in the League Cup.
He left on a free for Blackburn in 2013 before joining Bournemouth for £1million four years ago.
United had arrived on the south coast on the back of their best run of form since Solskjaer was handed the manager’s job full time.
The Red Devils had been unbeaten in all competitions since returning from the international break. They followed a 1-1 draw against league leaders Liverpool with wins over Partizan Belgrade, Norwich and Chelsea to reach the quarter-finals of the Carabao Cup.
 
Not quite back to Square One for Manchester United but a performance to illustrate the fact that, for all their good work in their previous three - consecutive - away wins, you still just cannot trust them.
Last Wednesday night’s win at Chelsea , to reach the Carabao Cup quarter-finals against the odds, was the best of their victories on their travels.
Their defensive discipline and superior desire suggested perhaps a turning point in a tough season for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer.
Yet here we are. Bournemouth would have scored more with better decision-making in the final third but still caused problems with their speed and creativity. United needed to take this chance to build on their good work.
Instead wins in their home games against Partizan and Brighton , followed by a trip to Sheffield United, cannot be taken for granted.
He may have his critics but David de Gea did superbly well to at least give United a chance of salvaging something from this contest.
When Callum Wilson crossed in from the right with just over 20 minutes to go, Joshua King looked all set for the second goal from which Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side would surely not have recovered.
Instead, De Gea made himself big to deny the Norwegian, then saved again with his legs from Harry Wilson.
With 16 minutes to go the Spaniard saved again from the rising star on loan from Liverpool , diving to his left to keep out his fierce drive from the edge of the box.
It still defies belief that someone, somewhere at Old Trafford believed Fred was good enough to play for Manchester United .
Or that Shakhtar were able to keep a collective straight face for long enough to get the £47million deal done last year.
His lack of composure is such that nobody expected him to tuck away the two chances presented to him during the first half hour.
His lack of industry in midfield was such that he was outgunned by Jefferson Lerma. United will do well to get their money back.
Josh King’s third goal of the season was his best yet. First the initial poise to make space for himself in a crowded penalty box.
Then the audacity to lift the ball over Aaron Wan-Bissaka - no slouch - then the composure to to volley the ball home past David de Gea.
A wonderful strike fully deserving of the TV audience it was granted. King has been accused in the past of being all speed and no finish but the Norwegian forward, 27, answered a few critics here with that effort.
Solskjaer raved about him in the pre-match build-up, insisting he was so much happier in the current set-up.
The statistics suggested results are so much better when the Frenchman starts. The expectation was that he’d turn up and turn it on. Clearly Bournemouth hadn’t had the memo.
When the Cherries defenders go through their pockets after this they’ll find him in there, nice and warm on this cold afternoon on the south coast. Martial’s impact on this game was minimal at best.
Nathan Ake and the evergreen Steve Cook must surely have feared a more difficult game. Instead they’ll be looking forward to Match of the Day.
