
# Beermen nip Elite in OT

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:38:04+00:00**

Author: **Arman Carandang**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/sports/basketball/beermen-nip-elite-ot)

Playing without import Dez Wells, the Beermen proved they can win all by themselves, wearing down Blackwater in overtime, 99-96, before a lean Wednesday crowd at the Cuneta Astrodome.
But the win came rather too tough for the Beermen who had to lean on Marcio Lassiter, June Mar Fajardo and Terrence Romeo for the big baskets in the extension to clinch the win they could have also snatched right on regulation had they completed their play in the last 18 seconds.
The Beermen had that big chance to end it all in regulation after securing ball possession in the last 18 seconds following KG Canaleta’s missed three-pointer.
Following a timeout and with the count tied at 88-all, the Beermen tried to press down the remaining 18 seconds before going for the last shot. Unfortunately, Fajardo missed an attempt at the basket on tight defense by the Elite, paving the way for the extension.
Nevertheless, Fajardo made up for that lapse as he joined Lassiter and Romeo in a vicious 8-0 tear which enabled SMB to turn a 90-92 deficit into a 98-92 lead.
The Beermen, who played without Dez Wells who sprained his ankle during SMB’s tussle with Meralco last Sunday, thus bounced back from two stinging setbacks and clinched their sixth win in nine outings to bolster their top 4 bid in the PBA Governors’ Cup.
The Elite, on the other hand, tumbled to their eighth loss in 10 games and are totally out of the running for the next round.
The Beermen's lack of toughness in offense was all too apparent the entire first half, with Fajardo becoming the only double-figure scorer with 11 points. The rest in the team struggled in offense.
Good thing though for the Beermen, Blackwater, it seemed, didn’t have much capability to take advantage of the situation. The Elite themselves couldn’t get their acts going in both ends.
In particular, Marqus Blakely was a big flop for the Elite, finishing with just five points, although he cornered 10 rebounds in the first half which the Elite took, 37-34.
The scores:
San Miguel (99) - Fajardo 30, Romeo 20, Santos 13; Lassiter 11, Cabagnot 8, Pessumal 7, Nabong 6, Tautuaa 4, Rosser 0, Ross 0.
Blackwater (96) - Belo 25, Blakely 24, Trollano 14, Canaleta 13, Cruz 8, Javier 6, Tolomia 4, Sumang 2, Dario 0, Desiderio 0, Cruz 0, Al-Hussaini 0, Salem 0.
Quarterscores: 11-16, 34-37, 64-62, 88-88, 99-96.
