
# Financial troubles can cause ‘mental and physical sickness’ and these industries have the biggest problem with drug abuse

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:20:00+00:00**

Author: **Jacob Passy**

Original: [MarketWatch](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/financial-troubles-can-cause-mental-and-physical-sickness-and-these-industries-have-the-biggest-problem-with-drug-abuse-2019-11-04?amp%3Bsiteid=rss&amp%3Brss=1)

Happy Monday, MarketWatchers! Don’t miss these top stories:
A recent study identified symptoms similar to those of post-traumatic stress disorder among 23% of U.S. respondents dubbed ‘acute financial stress.’
The World Wildlife Fund and World Resources Institute worked with the U.S. Forest Service to examine 73 commercial wood products — including furniture, flooring, musical instruments and sporting goods — sold by major U.S. retailers. Most were wrongly labeled, raising concern they were illegally logged.
A recent study of the four-day workweek program found employees were 20% more productive — and much happier.
Income volatility appears to be a persistent problem for many American families.
McDonald’s pushed out its CEO over a consensual relationship with an employee.
A new study looks at the use of marijuana, cocaine and misused prescription opioids.
Fasten your seat belt — it’s going to be a bumpy night. Imagine watching ‘Fast and Furious’ at 1.5X speed.
‘It was like a five-ton elephant being lifted off your shoulders.’
The trial instructed 19,084 patients to take their pills on waking or at bedtime, and followed them for more than six years.
‘While my sister’s husband feels bad for me, he will not compensate me for my loss.’
It’s rare for a major party’s presidential nominee to choose a primary opponent as a running mate. In the past 40 years, it only has happened three times
Banks are tightening standards on credit-card loans, according to a Fed survey of senior bank loan officers released Monday.
Scaling back tax expenditures could yield significant revenue and make the code fairer.
In 2011, at 50, I took early retirement from my job as an air-traffic controller, left Texas and began traveling the world.
Our call of the day anticipates a recession will hit hard, but not for at least six months
