
# Piers Morgan's blistering attack on John Legend over 'Baby It's Cold Outside' remake in GMB rant

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:53:43+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/piers-morgans-blistering-attack-john-17200629)

Piers Morgan has hit out at "horror story" John Legend - furiously blasting the pop star over a re-working of a Christmas classic.
Controversial presenter Piers was back on the ITV1 show Good Morning Britain today (Monday, November 4).
The host of the show was alongside Susanna Reid as he returned to present, having enjoyed a week off.
Adil Ray stepped in last week for Piers, and many were left missing the Brummie comedian and writer today as the Arsenal fan and former newspaper editor returned in typical style.
Today, Piers' anger stemmed from John Legend - and his wife Chrissy Teigen.
The All Of Me singer, along with Kelly Clarkson, has re-recorded the classic Christmas song Baby, It's Cold Outside to bring it a little more up to date.
They decided to change the lyrics after people complained last year over how controversial the song is in the wake of the #MeToo movement.
 
Written in 1944 by Frank Loesser, the song includes a conversation between a man and a woman where he tries to convince her to not risk her journey home in the bad weather - but instead to have another drink and stay the night.
Piers raged: “Argggghh. What is wrong with these people?
"John Legend you virtue-signalling horror story and that dreadful wife of his, what’s her name? Chrissy Teigen.
"They’ve sat there plotting how to ruin a great Dean Martin classic just in time for Christmas.”
When Susanna challenged how he knew Chrissy Teigen had been involved, Piers suggested that it will have been the model who re-wrote the lyrics.
 
Susanna hit back: “Just because you’ve got your own beef with Chrissy Teigen. Let’s leave Chrissy Teigen out of it.”
“No, let’s leave her in it." he moaned. “She’s behind this.”
Susanna then called Piers out for using this debate as a “gratuitous chance to have a go at someone you don’t like”.
But Piers was adamant: “No she is behind this, she is Miss Wokeville on Twitter. She got hold of poor old Legend, he used to be great, now he’s rewriting one of the classics of Christmas. Why? Why?
“Who wanted this re-written? What a load of nonsense.”
This is not the first time Piers has stuck up for the original, which featured in the 1949 romantic comedy Neptune's Daughter and won an Academy Award for best original song.
He spoke out after it was banned from the playlists of various radio stations last year, sparking debate about whether it is appropriate.
Piers decided that it was, and claimed she “gave consent” because “she stayed” adding: “Do you not read the lyrics? She’s flirting with him.”

        Good Morning Britain airs weekdays from 6am on ITV.
      
