
# Brother of missing Scot Lisa Brown reveals daily struggle four years after she vanished in Spain

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Derek Alexander, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/derek-alexander/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/brother-missing-expat-lisa-brown-20795855)

The brother of missing expat Lisa Brown has said he still struggles with day-to-day life on the fourth anniversary of her disappearance in Spain.
Craig Douglas also said he has kept faith in detectives getting justice for his sister.
Police suspect she has been murdered.
Lisa’s family will tomorrow mark four years since she was last seen.
Craig revealed they remain hopeful that officers will make a breakthrough, despite it being revealed last week that a judge has closed the investigation.
The 49-year-old, of Alexandria, Dunbartonshire, said: “The anniversary is a hard day for us to get through.
 
Mentally, it’s difficult. But we have to keep believing that one day we’ll do what we set out to do – find Lisa and bring her home.
“We just try to get on with our day-to-day life, which isn’t easy.
“The judge’s decision to close the investigation doesn’t change anything.
The family were informed he’d made this decision months ago.”
He added: “If someone comes forward with new information, then it’ll be reopened. We have a good relationship with the investigators in Spain.
They are not working on Lisa’s case 24/7 but, if key information comes to light, then they’ll act on it.
“It can take people years to decide to speak out. If it happens soon, then great. But if it doesn’t, we’ll keep waiting.”
Lisa vanished from Guadiaro, near San Roque in the south-west of Spain, on November 4, 2015.
Her ex-boyfriend Simon Corner was at the centre of a murder probe after the 32-year-old went missing.
Officers said a “violent episode” had taken place at the home she shared with the Liverpudlian, who has been described as a yacht salesman.
Five other Brits – four men and a woman – were also investigated for obstructing justice.
Lisa, who was from Alexandria but had lived abroad since she was 18, was reported missing after failing to collect her son Marco from school.
No trace of her has been found since.
Prosecutors halted the investigation in April 2017 because they felt there was insufficient evidence for a trial.
But the case was reopened to examine mobile phone data obtained from handsets which were recovered in Denmark, where Corner was arrested on a European Arrest Warrant after he fled Spanish police.
Corner – jailed for three months in Gibraltar in 2014 for having an offensive weapon – vanished again when he was on bail but police apprehended him at Heathrow Airport and he was extradited back to Spain in 2018.
He was then told the investigation into his involvement in Lisa’s dis-appearance was being halted.
Lisa’s mum Catherine Brown, 74, passed away in February, leaving the family – including Craig, his brother Martin and elder sister Helen Jordan – heartbroken that she wouldn’t see justice delivered for her girl.
Their £100,000 reward for information offered in 2017 is still available.
MP Martin Docherty-Hughes met Spain’s ambassador to the UK in London last month to discuss the case.
He described their conversation as positive and he was given assurances that detectives would reopen the probe if new information emerged.
The MP said: “This has been a difficult year for Lisa’s family, yet I’m heartened by the work that has been undertaken by the Spanish authorities.”
