
# Guys Who Work a Lot Are More Likely to End Up Bald, According to a Recent Study

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/wonder-curiosities/guys-who-work-a-lot-are-more-likely-to-end-up-bald-according-to-a-recent-study-794652/)

As children, we never dreamed of going bald. But most of us did want to be independent, work a lot to earn money, and use that to buy whatever we wanted. Well, it turns out that those things might be connected, at least for men, scientists claim. And it seems there might be a chance to save your hair, if you know about one thing.
We at Bright Side examined a study from A to Z and we’re ready to tell you which job can cause you to have bald patches on your head, and what you can do to try and save your hair.
It is totally OK for people to lose small amounts of hair — according to the British Association of Dermatologists, there is no reason to panic if you shed up to 100 hairs daily. But if you notice that there are entire patches of hair left in your hands after you wash or comb your head, this can be a sign that you may be going bald.
There are lots of factors that can lead to this problem, and your line of work is among them. From working late to having lunch at your desk to being the first one at the office early in the morning, these things might be good for your wallet, but they are not that great for your hairline. According to this study, people who tend to work more, double their chances of joining celebrities like Jason Statham, Vin Diesel, The Rock, and Bruce Willis in their hairless journey.
To confirm this theory, South Korean researchers looked at 13,391 males, between 20 and 59 years old. The participants were split into 3 groups — those who worked 40, 40–52, and more than 52 hours per week. At the start, none of them reported that they were suffering from hair loss.
After 4 years of the study, the scientists discovered that longer working hours were significantly related to the development of alopecia. It was also found that the strength of this connection increased proportionally to the number of hours worked.
It is thought that job-related stress can be the culprit here. Previous studies have shown that long working hours cause stress and there is proof that stress is able to push our hair follicles into a resting phase where the hairs stop growing. And since no new hairs are growing at this step, they just fall out without being replaced.
According to another opinion, this stress can lead to a situation where our immune system attacks hair follicles. This condition can stop hair growth forever.
So what can you do if your shag is a top priority for you? You can at least try to limit your work hours and relax more. If you’ve figured out that your workload is too high, maybe it’s worth discussing with your boss. You might want to ask for an assistant or delegate a part of your tasks to another colleague.
Although this study was only conducted on men and it’s not known exactly whether women are at risk or not, we believe that the advice about taking more downtime can be useful for women too since baldness is not the only problem that can be linked to stress.
How many hours per week do you work? What would you choose (if you had to) — your career or your hair? Be sure to share this article with your colleague who never leaves the office on time.
Preview photo credit Die Hard 2 / 20th Century Fox, A Good Day to Die Hard / 20th Century Fox
