
# Carrie Fisher Will Only Have 8 Minutes in Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:23:58+00:00**

Author: **Blair Marnell**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/movies/471257-carrie-fisher-will-only-have-8-minutes-in-star-wars-the-rise-of-skywalker)

Back in December 2016, Star Wars icon Carrie Fisher passed away shortly after finishing her role in Star Wars: The Last Jedi. However, director J.J. Abrams and Lucasfilm elected to keep Fisher’s General Leia in Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker by using deleted scenes from The Last Jedi and The Force Awakens. Now, Fisher’s brother, Todd Fisher, is sharing some details about her final appearance as Leia.
“The truth is that J.J. Abrams was great friends with Carrie,” said Fisher while speaking with Yahoo Movies. “[Abrams] had an extraordinary sense of love for her…They had eight minutes of footage. They grabbed every frame and analyzed it… and then reverse-engineered it and [got] it into the story the right way. It’s kind of magical.”
According to Fisher, his sister was originally going to get an even larger role in the finale of the Skywalker Saga. And it would have involved Leia getting her own lightsaber.
“She was going to be the big payoff in the final film,” said Fisher. “She was going to be the last Jedi, so to speak. That’s cool right?”
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker will hit theaters on Friday, December 20.
Would you have enjoyed seeing Leia become the Last Jedi? Let us know in the comment section below!

        Recommended Reading: Star Wars: Age Of Resistance – Heroes
      

        We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
      
