
# ‘Kim Kardashian of 16th Century’: Louvre Should Ditch Mona Lisa, New York Times Writes

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:38:24+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/europe/201911071077242057-kim-kardashian-of-16th-century-louvre-should-ditch-mona-lisa-new-york-times-writes/)

The Louvre, by far the most popular museum in France, should get rid of its most iconic piece – the Mona Lisa, also known as La Gioconda, painted in the early 16th century by Leonardo da Vinci – New York Times art critic Jason Farago wrote on Wednesday in an opinion piece, provocatively titled "It’s Time to Take Down Mona Lisa".
His explosive claim is not without merit according to some. In his article, Farago cites statistics which show some 80 percent of Louvre visitors come there just to see this one painting and, if lucky, take a selfie with it. 
He said the crowding caused by the painting made the museum feel like a “cattle pen” this summer amid “100-degree-plus heat".
"The overcrowding was so bad, the museum had to shut its doors on several days", he writes, adding that the situation has not improved since then.
He continued by saying that, apart from the Mona Lisa phenomenon, the rest of the Louvre does not suffer from overcrowding but, if the tourist flow increases with its current dynamic, “the place is going to crack".
Farago called on the museum to evict the painting to a separate facility, which he suggested could be named “Sheikh Zayed-Louis Vuitton-Samsung Galaxy-Ladurée Macarons Mona Lisa Pavilion", where people can enjoy “the art, the shopping, the sweets and the selfies".
While the article was mocked in the US media, including The Daily Caller and New York Magazine’s "The Cut", most commenters on Twitter appeared to agree with Farago’s sentiment.
