
# Tezgam express tragedy: King Salman, Crown Prince offer condolences

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:36:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/516815-Tezgam-express-tragedy-King-Salman-Crown-Prince-offer-condolences-)

RIYADH (Web Desk) – Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense on Friday have expressed their sorrow over the deaths of dozens of people in a train that caught fire caused by an exploding gas stove near Liaquatpur city, Rahim Yar Khan district, the Saudi Press Agency reported.
The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques sent a cable of condolences to President Dr Arif Alvi on the victims of a fire that broke out on a train in Pakistan.
In this cable, the King said: "We have been informed about the news of the fire that broke out on one of the trains in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, resulting in deaths and injuries. We call Allah Almighty to bestow his mercy on the deceased, and wish the injured a speedy recovery."
For his part, the Crown Prince also offered condolences to Dr Arif Alvi and victims  families, calling Allah the Almighty to bestow his mercy on the deceased, wishing a speedy recovery to the injured.
On the other hand, the Saudi embassy in Islamabad has also expressed deep grief and sorrow over precious lives lost in tragic Pakistan train blaze.
Around 74 people were killed when a massive fire broke out on a moving train in Pakistan’s eastern Punjab province on Thursday while 40 others sustained injuries, according to officials.
The accident was caused after cooking gas cylinders exploded in the crowded train en route from Karachi to Rawalpindi.
“The Saudi embassy stands in solidarity with the people of Pakistan in this difficult time,” the official handout released by the embassy said.
The embassy also extended deep condolences to the families of the victims and wishes for swift and full recovery for the injured.
Prime Minister Imran Khan termed the incident a “terrible tragedy, and has ordered an immediate investigation into the matter.
The train “Tezgam” was a daily express service shuttling between Karachi and Rawalpindi and, according to officials, was carrying pilgrims to an annual religious congregation outside Lahore where a tented village is prepared to house around 400,000 people for joint prayers.
