
# What channel is Chelsea vs Ajax on? TV and live stream information

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:12:48+00:00**

Author: **Sam Fletcher**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/what-channel-chelsea-vs-ajax-20813905)

Frank Lampard’s young Chelsea team aim to keep their place at the top of Group H as they take on Ajax in the UEFA Champions League.
Despite a 1-0 defeat at home in their opening fixture, Lampard’s men have won back-to-back matches to put Chelsea in a commanding position halfway through the Group Stage.
They’ve already beaten Ajax in the reverse fixture but last season's semi-finalists are in good goalscoring form having netted eight times in just two matches since Chelsea’s victory in Amsterdam.
Michy Batshuayi’s late strike was the difference between the sides two weeks ago after his left-footed effort cannoned in off the bar to send Lampard jubilant on the touchline and give Chelsea all three points.
Here’s all you need to know ahead of the game...
The game is on Tuesday 5th November. Kick-off is scheduled for 8pm.
The match takes place at Stamford Bridge.
The last time Chelsea won a home game in the Champions League was the 12th September 2017, when they beat Qarabag 6-0.
The game is on BT Sport 2 for UK viewers. The coverage is scheduled to start at 7pm.
UK subscribers to BT Sport can stream the game through their website and the BT Sport app.
Alternatively, you can follow all of the action on the Mirror Football live blog.
Frank Lampard confirmed in his pre-match press conference that N’Golo Kante, Andreas Christensen and Ross Barkley are all back in training ahead of the match.
The only long-term absentee is Antonio Rudiger who remains sidelined with a groin injury.
Ajax manager Erik ten Hag boats a fully-fit squad ahead of the match with no new injury concerns.
Chelsea 10/11
Draw 14/5
Ajax 14/5
Odds courtesy of thepools.com
