
# Best Gifts For New Moms

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Madeline Kaufman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/10/31/best-gifts-for-new-moms/)

For Moms who have recently learned they're expecting or who are celebrating their first Mother's Day with their child, consider going the extra mile on their first Mother's Day with gifts that will be both sentimental and helpful. If you're looking for more Mother's Day gift ideas, check out our Mother's Day last-minute flower gift guide and our Best Gifts For Mom recommendations.Bauble Bar Maya Brenner Asymmetrical Character Necklace
This necklace can come with anywhere with one to three initials on the chain, perfect for Mothers with multiple children.

        Shop Now: Starting at $240
      

        Greenwich Simply Chic Diaper Backpack
      
Easily one of the most stylish diaper bags available, this Greenwich Simply Chic Diaper Backpack can go to the office, on vacation and everywhere in between.

        Shop Now: $100
      

        Berkey Water Filter
      
Keep your new mom hydrated with this travel-sized water filter for dewy, glowing skin.

        Shop Now: $337
      

        Tile Mate Four-Pack
      
So she never loses her keys.

        Shop Now: $29
      

        Beaba Babycook in Blueberry
      
Simplify baby food making with this four in one steam, cook and blender tool from Beaba. It also earns bonus points for its cute color.

        Shop Now: $150
      

        iRobot Roomba 690
      
Having messy floors will be much less of a stressor with this remote-control vacuum from iRobot.

        Shop Now: $548
      

        Canon Powershot Camera
      
Help her capture life's most precious moments with the gift of a better-quality camera than her iPhone.

        Shop Now: $249
      

        InstaPot Duo Nova 7-in-1 Multi-Function Cooker
      
A new mom’s best friend, this time-saving cooker allows her to make meals that cook up to 70% faster compared to standard crockpots. The InstaPot Duo Nova can be used as a pressure cooker, steamer, slow cooker, rice cooker, saute pan, yogurt maker and much more. The InstaPot features 14 Smart Programs (including soup, chili, stew), 3 customizable temperature settings, 10 built-in safety features and progress indicator. This particular model has a 6-quart capacity. 

        Shop Now: $100
      

        4Moms MamaRoo
      
This sleek infant seat sways baby back and forth and features 5 unique motions designed to comfort and soothe baby. The seat can be adjusted in multiple positions and has a Bluetooth-enabled option to remotely control motion, sound, speed and volume. The seat also features an overhead toy mobile that keeps baby entertained thanks to reversible toy balls,  built-in rattles, and colorful patterns. Busy moms can safely put their infants in the seat and keep an eye on him/her while cooking or attending to chores. 

        Shop Now: $220
      

        Cloud b Sleep Sheep On the Go Travel Sound Soother
      
A new mom’s sanity saver- this little sound machine helps to lull babies to sleep with its’ calming sounds. The sound soother is housed in a cuddly stuffed sheep and can be attached to car seats, cribs, and strollers. The machine features 4 sound buttons (such as gentle stream and spring showers), an adjustable velcro tab, and two sleep timer options. It is convenient and fits easily into a suitcase or diaper bag. 

        Shop Now: $23
      

        Pottery Barn Silver Leaf Handprint and Footprint Frame
      
Capture a special moment in time with this beautiful silver leaf frame. The frame allows moms to display their little one’s footprint and handprints on a mantle, table or on the wall of a nursery with pride. The frame comes with an ink kit, silver leaf overlay and is approximately 7.5 inches wide and 9.5 inches high. Personalization is available for an additional cost. 

        Shop Now: $52
      
