
# The PFA vows to 'robustly defend' sacked Derby captain Richard Keogh

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:25:55+00:00**

Author: **James Nursey, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/james-nursey/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/pfa-vows-robustly-defend-sacked-20829001)

The PFA have vowed to "robustly defend" Richard Keogh after Derby ripped up his £26,000-a-week contact following the club's drink-drive scandal.
Rams captain Keogh was dismissed by the Championship club after being involved in the incident which saw team-mates Tom Lawrence and Mason Bennett arrested.
Lawrence,25, and Bennett, 23, were both fined six weeks' wages by County as they pleaded guilty to drink driving their respective cars after a boozy bonding session.
But they remain at the club and have played since while veteran Keogh,33, who was a passenger and badly injured in the smash after not wearing a seatbelt, has been sacked.
A PFA spokesman said: "We will robustly defend our member because we feel he has been unfairly treated."
Keogh suffered a knee injury in the crash on September 24 and will be out for around 15 months.
His contract was due to expire in 2021 and Derby offered Keogh a revised deal on vastly reduced wages.
Keogh is now appealing Derby's decision and the PFA have vowed to back him.
Earlier this week the player's agent Cos Toffis insisted Keogh deserved to be treated as family by the club after his loyal service since joining in 2012 from Coventry and playing over 300 games.
Midfielder Lawrence and Rams forward Bennett were given 12-month community orders and banned from driving for two years by Derby magistrates.
Former defender Richard Dunne used a column in the Irish Independent at the weekend to question whether the Republic of Ireland international's punishment related to his age and injury, while the younger players were kept at the club - thoughts echoed by Keogh's agent Cos Toffis.
"I think it could be quite a big can of worms," Toffis told TalkSport. "If this goes in Derby's favour there will be a lot of players in difficult positions at their football clubs.
"Older players with less market value who are on a lot of money, these are scenarios you have at every football club in the world. Should they start wrapping themselves up in cotton wool to avoid any situations like this?"
