
# Twitter reacts as Liton Das gifts India his wicket with hilarious ‘brain fade’

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:09:01+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/twitter-reacts-as-liton-das-gifts-india-his-wicket-with-hilarious-brain-fade?utm_medium=rss)


        Both Bangladesh and India seemed to want to outdo each other when the teams took the field in Rajkot for the second T20I - in terms of blunders, that is. After Rishabh Pant’s gaffe, Liton Das ensured that the Twitteratti had a field day with a brain fade moment that would put Azhar Ali to shame.
      
After Pant granted Liton Das an extra life in the sixth over, most fans would have felt that they had already witnessed the “absurd moment of the day”. Oh, how wrong they were! In the very next over, three players wearing blue, Rohit Sharma, Shivam Dube, and Pant, converged on what appeared to be a simple catch but monumentally messed it up. 
This seemed to have given Liton the belief that he was invincible as he decided to push his luck to the very limit. On the second ball of the eighth over, the Bangladesh man was left stranded by a Chahal googly that appeared to have caught him leg before ricocheting off Pant. While Chahal was still appealing, Liton, who had no idea that the ball was a couple of feet away from him, set off for a single. Pant realized what was happening and just picked up the ball and hit one of the three stumps he could aim at to finally send Liton on the long walk back. 
The Twitteratti couldn’t believe their luck and came out in huge numbers to take a shot at the Bangladesh fan favorite. 

        When you "run out" of your nine lives?
      
