
# Man dies after police and medics dash to rear of West Bromwich pub

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:30:47+00:00**

Author: **Jordan Coussins, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/jordan-coussins/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/black-country/man-dies-after-police-medics-17195867)

Medics pronounced a man dead at the scene after emergency crews were called to a West Bromwich pub.
Police and ambulance staff went to The Merry Go Round in Garrett Street, West Bromwich, after a 999 call at around 1pm on Saturday, November 2.
West Midlands Fire & Rescue Service also confirmed they attended and said they helped gain access to a derelict factory building, which is close to the pub.
The man – who has not been named – was sadly pronounced dead, a spokesman for West Midlands Ambulance Service confirmed.
 
Eyewitness, Adam Parker, told Black Country Live that a number of crews were seen outside the boozer following the emergency call.
West Midlands Police say they are not treating the death as suspicious.
A spokesman for the service added: “We were called to Garrett Street, West Bromwich, to reports of a medical emergency at 1pm on Saturday, November 2.
“We sent two ambulances and a paramedic support officer to the scene.
 
“On arrival, crews quickly found it apparent that nothing could be done to save the patient and they were pronounced dead at the scene.
To keep up-to-date with crime in your community, join the Black Country Crime Watch Facebook group where you will be alerted to any suspicious or criminal behaviour happening in your area.    
Keep up-to-date with all things Walsall on our  Walsall Facebook page  - where you'll get the latest news, travel, weather and events in your area.
