
# DIFC’s Botanical Garden relaunches with new look

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:56:00+00:00**

Author: **Amy Mathieson**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/bars-nightlife/422311-difcs-botanical-garden-relaunches-with-new-look)

Looking for a new spot for an after-work tipple in Dubai's DIFC? How does an “urban garden escape” sound to you?
Botanical Garden, which can be found on the rooftop of Capital Club in DIFC, is reopening with a swish new look for its second season.
The lounge is inspired by botanical gardens from all around the world and the walls and ceilings will be adorned in exotic plants and foliage – think of the Instagram opportunities.
The trendy new spot will be open to the public from Tuesday to Friday between 4.30pm and midnight and it set to launch a load of deals. Watch this space for updates.
From relaxed after-work drinks to a buzzing night out, the trendy DIFC district has it all and we’ve rounded up ten of the best spots here.
Looking for more floral photo opportunities? Dubai Miracle Garden recently reopened for its highly-anticipated eighth edition – get all the details here.
There’s another al fresco lounge opening up in Business Bay and it will be serving a fancy late-night menu until 5am – get all the details here.Open Tue-Fri 4.30pm-midnight. Gate Village 3, DIFC, www.instagram.com/thebotanicalgardendxb.
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
