
# Griezmann needs to adapt better to play regularly at Barcelona, asserts Ernesto Valverde

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:38:07+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/02/griezmann-needs-to-adapt-better-to-play-regularly-at-barcelona-asserts-ernesto-valverde?utm_medium=rss)


        Barcelona boss Ernesto Valverde has asserted that Antoine Griezmann will play if he meets the requirements and adapts to the team’s style and structure. The Frenchman was dropped to the bench during midweek clash against Real Valladolid and 17-year-old pearl Ansu Fati was given a start by Valverde.
      
Barcelona prepare to face Levante away at Ciudad de Valencia and coach Ernesto Valverde thinks it will be a tough and challenging game for the Catalans. During the pre-match conference, Valverde was asked about if new €108 million signing Antoine Greizmann will start the game but Valverde refrained from giving Greizmann a guaranteed place in the team, as reported by Marca. Since his move from Atletico Madrid, Griezmann has found life difficult at Barcelona with the player publicly accepting the strained relationship he has with captain Lionel Messi. 
“He is a player who has been playing regularly. The other day I made some changes. I don't like to talk about indisputable starters. He will play if he meets his requirements,” the former Athletic Bilbao told as reported by Marca.  
Valverde went on to admit that a tough opponent awaits in form of Levante for Barcelona and his team need to be wary of the challenge that the Valencian club can throw at Barca. Levante go into the game on the back of an impressive 2-1 win away at Real Sociedad, and Valverde feels that their high intensity could cause his team a few problems like they did on Wednesday.
“[Levante] are a team that try to press high and that have many offensive solutions," he said during his pre-match press conference on Friday. They are usually a team that attack with many players and, if they take the ball off you, they can harm you with the likes of [Jose Luis] Morales and Hernani. It is one of those matches in which anything can happen. The other day at Anoeta they were again a coherent team, similar to what they was last year,” concluded Valverde.
