
# Rohit Sharma surpasses Virat Kohli to become highest run-scorer in T20Is

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:00:10+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/bangladesh-in-india/rohit-sharma-surpasses-virat-kohli-to-become-highest-run-scorer-in-t20is/articleshow/71879112.cms)

NEW DELHI: Rohit Sharma surpassed Virat Kohli to become the leading run-getter in Twenty20 International cricket on Sunday. The stand-in India skipper Rohit achieved the milestone in his 99th T20I that also made him the most-capped Indian player. Rohit went past MS Dhoni's tally of 98 T20Is for India.
Rohit got to the landmark in the first T20I of the three-match series against Bangladesh at the Arun Jaitley Stadium in Delhi when he hammered past cover to pick up a four off Shafiul Islam. But Rohit's stay at the crease ended on the next delivery when he was trapped in front by Islam for 9.
Rohit has scored 2452 runs so far in 99 matches while Kohli has 2450 runs to his name in 72 matches.
Meanwhile, the Mumbai batsman is tied at second place on the list of most T20I appearances with former all-rounder Pakistan Shahid Afridi (99). Shoaib Malik leads the chart with 111 matches.
Rohit has enjoyed a rich vein of form this year. After top scoring in the 2019 World Cup with 648 runs, he made his debut as an opener for India in Test cricket during the recent series against South Africa. He ended up scoring 529 runs in the series, which included a maiden Test double hundred.
