
# Festive season sees growth in two-wheeler sales

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Staff Writer**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/festive-season-sees-growth-in-two-wheeler-sales-414749)

While sales have dropped, year-on-year, numbers reported in October are better than those recorded in September 2019.
The festive season seems to have brought some cheer for the two-wheeler industry in India, with some reporting month-on-month (MoM) gains in October, in comparison to those in September.
Bajaj Auto sold a total of 2,42,516 units in the month of October 2019, a decline of 13.87 percent as compared to October 2018 figures (2,81,582 units). In the same month, it exported 1,56,397 units, which is a 3 percent year-on-year growth, with October 2018 figures reported at 1,51,403 units. Comparing these numbers to its previous month's figures, Bajaj saw a MoM growth of 37 percent with 65,168 units (1,77,348 units in September 2019). However, its export figures went down by 2,985 units from those in September 2019. So, in the month of October 2019, Bajaj sold a total (domestic and export) of 3,98,913 motorcycles, which is an 8 percent degrowth as compared to October 2018 (4,32,985 units); but an 18 percent growth as compared to September 2019 (3,36,730 units).
Suzuki Motorcycle India and Hero MotoCorp claim that they have registered record sales in the month of October. Hero MotoCorp sold a total of 5,99,248 units in the month of October 2019 while Suzuki sold a total of 66,215 units in the same month (its highest ever for the month of October). Suzuki saw a MoM growth of 4 percent (September 2019: 63,382 units) and a YoY growth of 7 percent (October 2018: 61,768 units). Hero MotoCorp saw a dip in its sales with a MoM decline of 2 percent (September 2019: 6,12,204 units) and a YoY decline of 18 percent (October 2018: 7,34,667 units). Hero MotoCorp has reported a record retail sale of 12.84 lakh units in October 2019 – which it claims are the brand's highest-ever retail sales in any single calendar month. Hero has further claimed that its double-digit growth in retail sales was mostly driven by the growing trend for the premium segment and the 125cc scooter segment (which is said to have come nearly 50,000 units)
Koichiro Hirao, managing director, Suzuki Motorcycle India said, “We are proud to announce our highest-ever monthly sales in October 2019. We feel excited to continue Suzuki’s growth-curve with highest-ever monthly sales, creating newer milestones for us.”
Sanjay Bhan, head – sales, aftersales and parts, Hero MotoCorp said, “The growth in retail sales during the festive period is in line with our plans. First-time buyers, who have always shown a strong preference for the range of products from Hero MotoCorp, have driven this growth. Specific markets such as Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh – where the retail growth has been more than 15 percent - have also bolstered our overall retail growth during this festive season. Our motorcycle sales grew in double digits during this period, with a strong performance from our new range of premium motorcycles. The ‘Pleasure+’ scooter also generated substantial volumes during this festive season. We are optimistic of carrying forward the momentum in retail sales. Thanks to the record retail off-take, our inventory levels are now down to 30 days and future despatches are being planned in keeping with market demand. The despatch numbers for the month of October reflect our conscious effort at further correcting dealer inventories.”
This month, Hero MotoCorp’s Haridwar manufacturing plant achieved the milestone of surpassing 25 million units in cumulative production.
Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India registered a total sale (domestic and export) of 5,17,808 units in the month of October, which is reported to be 7 percent more than its September figures. In the domestic market, Honda sold 4,87,782 two-wheelers – 7 percent more than its September 2019 figures (4,55,892 units). Comparing it with October 2018, Honda registered a flat growth (October 2018:4,90,124 units).  Honda has also confirmed that its sales in the month of October were the highest for FY2019-2020.
TVS Motor Company has also registered an uptrend in its MoM sales in the month of October. It sold 252,684 units in the month of October 2019, registering a MoM growth of 4 percent (September 2019: 243,163 units). However, TVS saw a 25 percent YoY degrowth (October 2018: 338,988 units) in its sales last month.
Royal Enfield sold a total of 71,964 units in the month of October 2019, a YoY growth of 2 percent (October 2018: 70,451 units) and a MoM growth of 31 percent (September 2019: 54,858 units). Royal Enfield has further reported that the sales of the motorcycles upto the capacity of 350cc have declined 5 percent but the sales of its models with engine capacity above 350cc – which includes the newly launched 650 twins; Interceptor 650 and the Continental GT 650 – have registered a YoY growth of 160 percent with 7,707 units. This segment also saw a 58 percent YoY growth in the April to October 2019 period with 53,220 units sold. The 650 twins’s Diwali sales seem to have really put the spark in Royal Enfield’s sales chart for this fiscal.
 
