
# Leicester's current side is better than their Premier League title winners

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:06:19+00:00**

Author: **Stan Collymore, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/stan-collymore/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/leicesters-current-side-better-premier-20800886)

The current Leicester team is better than the one Claudio Ranieri led to Premier League glory in 2015-16.
Ranieri’s miracle men had p­assion, desire and bags of experience, but the team put together by Brendan Rodgers has more dimensions and much more creativity.
If I’m being perfectly honest about Leicester’s title triumph, from the March onwards I felt a little uncomfortable that many opponents seemed more than happy to indulge the Foxes story.
They didn’t seem hurt by losing to them.
This team, though, will go home and away against any team in the top flight. And, when the game is over, opponents will know they have had a real game.
Not just because of Jamie Vardy and Kasper Schmeichel and the old heads but because of James Maddison, Youri Tielemans, and the rest of the younger lads.
I remember interviewing Vardy on the pitch after Leicester were presented with their trophy in 2016 and asking him what was next for his team.I expected him to say: ‘This is the pinnacle, it doesn’t get any better than this.’
But instead it was more a case of: ‘Bring on Europe, there’s so much more we want.’
I saw then the attitude that had taken him from non-League to the Premier League summit.
I know in terms of tangible ­success a top-four finish won’t equal the title win. But I’m certain a lot of Leicester fans would look at Champions League qualification and say that if the team which won the title was a good two-dimensional team, this one has the potential to be a very good three-dimensional team.
By that, I mean qualifying for Europe regularly in the next five years and occupying the positions that Manchester United, Arsenal and Everton have bounced between of late. Maybe they could finish one season in the Champions League and two in the Europa League and really establish themselves as ­regulars in the top six.
What Claude Puel tried to do when he took over from Ranieri was walk in and say: ‘It’s time to thank Vardy, Schmeichel, Christian Fuchs, Danny Simpson and Wes Morgan for their service and get rid of them.’
Rodgers, however, looked at the group and worked out how he could blend them and get a team out of them, which was clever because the best teams don’t have all old players or all young players, they have the right balance of both.
So the miracle men still in the group give such as Maddison and Hamza Choudhury something to look up to, while the younger lads give the team a vitality that comes from players who want to climb the football ladder.
On ability and squad depth, the Leicester team which won the title was seven out of 10. The one that faces Palace today is already eight out of 10 with potential to be even better.
The fact only Liverpool and Manchester City have played better this season tells you that this Leicester team is here to stay.
