
# Eddie Jones insists his England team know how to win Rugby World Cup

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Spink, https://www.facebook.com/alexspinkmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/eddie-jones-insists-england-team-20792141?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

Eddie Jones sends England into the Rugby World Cup final insisting his players know what it takes to become champions.
South Africa are the last obstacle to a prize Jones has spent every waking hour preparing for since taking charge at the end of 2015.
Coaches and players have come and gone as the workaholic boss has driven a team humiliated at their own World Cup to the brink of glory here in Japan.
Now comes judgement day and the Australian is convinced his Red Rose heroes are ready to deliver.
“The squad know how hard they’re going to have to work to win the game,” he said. “They know South Africa aren’t going to give us the game. They know we’ve got to go out there and win it.
“But this team want to work for each other. Twenty teams came in to the tournament wanting to win but the big difference between teams is the will to prepare to win.
“The will is the difficult part because it’s hard, you’ve got to do it every day, you’ve got to be prepared to get up and work a bit harder every day - and most people don’t want to do it. But this team’s done it superbly and this is our opportunity to put it all together.”
A jackpot payout of close to £7million awaits the England squad if they win today, amounting to around £225,000 per player. A victory parade has been booked for central London on Tuesday.
But none of that will happen, Jones warned, unless England stay firmly in the moment.
“They need to take in the excitement,” he said. “What they don’t need to take in is the distractions. Because now everyone’s your mate. Everyone wants to have a cup of coffee, ‘you got a spare ticket mate?’
“Blokes that weren’t your mates are now your mates, family members want tickets, long lost cousins want tickets, there’s more fans around the hotel. Every time you go out you’ve got to sign.
“So that’s all part of it. You’ve got to work out what you need to do to be at your best and then say no to the other things.”

        
          Buy the official programme for the Rugby World Cup final for just £10 at  reachsportshop.com   
        
      
