
# Prague Christmas market guide including the best markets and where to find deals

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:56:19+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/europe/prague-christmas-market-guide-including-20814249)

Prague already boasts a reputation as a beautiful city with its picturesque Old Town and fairytale-esque buildings - but there's something particularly magical about it at Christmas.
During the festive season, the Czech Republic's capital becomes home to some of Europe's best Christmas markets with colourful, twinkling light displays, awe-inspiring Christmas trees and traditional stalls selling everything from delicate trinkets to decadent hot drinks and foodie treats.
Visiting the city during Christmas market season can make for an idyllic break, as the markets are right by some of the best things to see and do in Prague making it easy to squeeze in plenty of sightseeing.
To give you a helping hand we've put together a guide on everything you need to know about Prague's Christmas markets from where to head for the action and what dates to visit, as well as top deals.
Check out our guide below...
Although there are a few markets tucked away throughout the city, Prague has two main Christmas markets. The good news? They're just a five-minute walk from each other.
The first is on Wenceslas Square (a pretty fitting name if you ask us!), the second is on the Old Town Square.
 
Both markets offer up heaps of stalls where you'll find everything from delicious foodie treats to arts and crafts, clothes and Christmas decorations.
There are also plenty of fun events including carol singing around the Christmas trees, dance performances and even some fun workshops for kids.
The markets tend to be open from around 10am to 10pm, although the food stalls close at midnight.
If you've got a while longer in Prague and want to check out more markets, you can also find festive offerings at Republic Square or in front of the St George's Basilica at Prague Castle (there may be an entrance fee for the latter).

        When are the Prague Christmas markets open?
      
The markets run from the 30th November 2019 through to the 6th January 2020. This also includes Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and New Year's Day.
Thinking of a last minute getaway to explore the markets? We've picked out top deals for a 2019 getaway.
Thinking of a 2020 break instead?
Websites such as easyJet Holidays, Lastminute.com and TravelSupermarket can be good sources for finding cheap flight and hotel deals.
As for getting there, you can find cheap flights to Prague with the likes of easyJet (fares from £20.99), British Airways (fares from £38) and Wizz Air, all of whom offer direct routes.
What's great about Prague is that it's a very walkable city, so most cheap hotels nearby will be within easy reach of the markets (and if you are a bit further out, it's a short ride on public transport).
Booking.com has guides to the best hotels near Wenceslas Square and best hotels near Old Town Square.
