
# Katie Price 'begging' for Christmas panto role - and eye-watering £1million fee

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:11:20+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/katie-price-begging-christmas-panto-20826977)

Katie Price has been 'begging' for a role in a Christmas pantomime, according to pals, who say she's also demanding a £1million fee for her appearance.
Cash-strapped Katie dodged bankruptcy twice last year and is reportedly looking for a deal that will give her finances a boost
Sources say she's even contacted long-term pal Rylan Clark Neal to see if he knows a contact that can get her a way in.
Rylan is starring in the celeb-packed Nativity! The Musical over the festive period, alongside with Danny and Dani Dyer .
While Katie is no stranger to treading the boards herself. Her last appearance came as the Wicked Fairy in Seeping Beauty back in 2015.
It was reported at the time she was paid a £100,000 appearance fee for her time at the New Victoria Theatre in Woking.
But the former glamour model is hoping to thrash out a better deal this time, say insiders.
A source told The Sun: "She knows they can be big money for soap stars and celebs, and thinks she could land a £1m fee. She says she's got the voice and loads of people would pay to see her be Cinderella.
“The problem is, she's got a reputation as being flaky and she's not exactly a squeaky clean family friendly name anymore after the arrests and the drugs she's admitted taking. She's gutted she hasn't landed a role this year," the insider claimed.
Mirror Online has contacted representatives of Katie for comment.
Last year it was reported that Coleen Nolan was the highest paid panto star, reportedly taking home around £200k for her role as the Fairy Godmother in Bradford's Cinderella.
While comedian Julian Clary was also alleged to have netted a similar figure for his part in Dick Whittington at the London Paladium.
