
# Vivo S5 launch set for November 14 in China - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:34:29+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/01/vivo-s5-launch-set-for-november-14-in-china/)

Rate this post
News/reports about the imminent arrival of the Vivo S5 smartphone have been floating around for some days now. The Chinese brand however recently quelled the prevailing rumors when it officially confirmed the device via a short video teaser.
Now, the brand has confirmed the VIVO S5 would be launching pretty soon. How soon you may ask? Well, the Vivo S5 as per a recent launch teaser will be announced at an event in Hangzhou on 14th November – the same date Xiaomi announces its Mi Note 10.
Brand ambassador Cai Xukun, who was recently caught holding the S5 in a promo video for a fashion magazine will make an appearance at the event.
The tagline of the device can roughly be translated as “Illuminate your beauty”. The Vivo S1 and S1 Pro were released as photo-centric smartphones. Based on this, we believe that the upcoming VivoS5 will also come with a great focus on the camera. Also, the “Illuminate your beauty” logan can stand for some selfie-centric modes.
Currently, there are no official specs details, though there are speculations it will feature a 64MP main camera – the same on the recently launched Vivo Nex 3, while it is expected to arrive in some fancy color hues. We expect some specs leaks or even official teasers to surface in the coming days.
