
# Everything We Know About The Haunting of Bly Manor

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Pruner**

Original: [Rotten Tomatoes](https://editorial.rottentomatoes.com/article/everything-we-know-about-the-haunting-of-bly-manor/)

Mike Flanagan’s The Haunting of Hill House flouted horror adaptation conventions, retooling Shirley Jackson’s classic novel to portray scary supernatural events, as well as explore a family’s enduring trauma as a psychological thriller. Aesthetically, the Netflix series was reminiscent of the book’s previous movie adaptations, but with Flanagan — screenwriter and director of such horror fare as Oculus and Ouija: Origin of Evil — at the helm, the familiar tale veered into exciting, new, and intensely creepy territory.
The first season of the series was a hit and is now Certified Fresh at 92% on the Tomatometer with 92 reviews. (Episode 6, “Two Storms,” in particular, impressed fans and critics.)

        RELATED: Hear Us Out: The Haunting of Hill House Episode 6 Might Be This Year’s Best Horror Movie
      
So where will season 2 go? As soon as the story of the Crain family ended in season 1, Flanagan confirmed to press that their tragic story was complete. The next installment will follow a new family’s story — in a completely different haunted house. With some familiar faces set to return, however, it seems Netflix’s Haunting series could become the streamer’s answer to American Horror Story.
“There’s not a narrative connection, but there are little Easter eggs, for sure, not only in small details but in moments of dialogue and in some of the ideas from Hill House,” Flanagan told Entertainment Weekly. “There are definitely going to be things that will set off that little dopamine rush that those kind of connections create. But it’s not a direct connection from a story point of view.”
As speculation swirls about the show’s upcoming sophomore season, here’s everything we know about The Haunting of Bly Manor.
Flanagan has turned his attention to a different author’s work for this outing. In February, Netflix revealed that the next installment of the series will be titled The Haunting of Bly Manor based on Henry James’ 1898 Gothic horror novella The Turn of the Screw.
The story was adapted previously for the big screen in the 1961 film The Innocents, starring Deborah Kerr and Michael Redgrave, as well as in other feature films and TV movies as “The Turn of the Screw.” Another take on the tale, titled The Turning and starring Mackenzie Davis and Finn Wolfhard, is scheduled to hit theaters next January.
“It’s such a treat to play in the world of Henry James … [but] You can skip rocks off of The Turn of the Screw,” Flanagan told EW. “So, we were able to open up his entire library of ghost stories, stuff that’s never been adapted, and build the whole season out with the entirety of Henry James’ supernatural library. And that has been a real treat, because we really get to do things that I’ve never gotten to see before. Turn of the Screw is really just our way in.”
For those unfamiliar, James’ classic story tells the tale of a young governess who heads to Bly Manor in Essex, England to keep an eye on an orphaned boy and girl. The governess then begins witnessing supernatural activity, becoming convinced the kids are being visited by ghosts.
“We’re looking at all the ghost stories of Henry James as the jumping-off point for the season, so it very much is a whole new deal,” Flanagan told Birth.Movies.Death. “It’s a cool way to expand on some of the things I loved about season 1, but within the framework of a new story, without having to be restrained by the decisions we made last time.”
Sounds like The Haunting of Bly Manor could also feature tidbits from “The Beast in the Jungle,” “The Figure in the Carpet,” “In the Cage” and/or “The Altar of the Dead.”
Flanagan has recently tweeted casting announcements for The Haunting of Bly Manor and revealed that Hill House‘s  Victoria Pedretti and Oliver Jackson-Cohen, whose connection as twins Nell and Luke Crain was the emotional foundation for that story, have both joined the new installment. Kate Siegel, who played the troubled, be-gloved sister Theo Crain, and Henry Thomas, who played young Hugh Crain, will also return.
Catherine Parker, who played the 1920s-era flapper ghost Poppy Hill in The Haunting of Hill House, will also return for Bly Manor.
