
# “Bumbershoot will return,” organizers say, after AEG pulls out of festival

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:32:00+00:00**

Author: **Amanda Hatfield**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/bumbershoot-will-return-organizers-say-after-aeg-pulls-out-of-festival/)

Bumbershoot has been a long-time Labor Day institution in Seattle, WA, and since its 2015 edition, with AEG Live as lead promoter. Its future is now uncertain, though; as Crosscut reports, AEG has pulled out of its role. AEG Pacific Northwest Vice President Rob Thomas confirmed the news in a statement, saying, “Bumbershoot is a cultural fixture and an important part of our community. We worked tirelessly to come up with a long-term solution to remain involved, but came to the conclusion that we were unable to renew our contract at this juncture. We have had five wonderful years working with One Reel and the city of Seattle on creating some memorable Bumbershoot moments, and we want to thank everyone involved for allowing us to play a part in that.”
The statement also highlighted ongoing financial troubles that led to the split. “Following financial and operational challenges related to the 2014 festival,” it reads, “the City worked with the festival’s appointed producer, One Reel, to create a new business model to sustain Bumbershoot. AEG Presents stepped forward as a producing partner and provided a major financial infusion, saving the 2015 festival and sustaining the annual event for five years.”
Speculation has been rife over whether Bumbershoot would be able to continue without AEG. One Reel released a statement expressing their intention to continue:
Bumbershoot’s 2019 edition made headlines over a collapsing barricade; four people were taken to the hospital following the collapse.
