
# Sporting Memories group set to be launched in Wishaw to help those with dementia

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Michael Pringle, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/michael-pringle/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/sporting-memories-group-set-launched-20815077)

The best goal you’ve ever seen scored, the best player you’ve had the fortune of seeing play, or your recollection of a momentous sporting moment in history?
Two charities have teamed up to rekindle the sporting memories of older people in Wishaw and share them with others.
Chest Heart & Stroke Scotland (CHSS) are providing their community hub in the town’s Main Street as the venue for taster sessions for sporting memories.
The sessions will help stimulate the minds of residents in the town of a certain vintage as they recall sporting history.
Throughout this month Sporting Memories Foundation Scotland (SMFS) will be providing a forum to reminisce about sporting heroes.
Those taking part will also be able to share stories of past playing days, or just share their local or worldly knowledge of sport.
Sporting Memories clubs are popping across Scotland and supporting older adults to stay active and build friendships through their common love of sport. 
The SMFS is the charitable arm of the award winning Sporting Memories Network, a social enterprise that runs weekly memory groups.
Founded in 2018 the charity became the first of its kind to use sporting memories to help tackle dementia, depression and loneliness.
Using images of sport, articles and memorabilia, it supports older people across the country who may have become isolated.
If the sessions prove successful then it’s hoped a regular club can be launched in Wishaw.
Both charities are calling on older people with a passion for sport to come along, share their memories, and form a fledgling group with like-minded people to meet weekly.
The clubs are a great opportunity for older people to become more active and take part in fun indoor games and quizzes.
Jim Purvis, local co-ordinator for SMFS, said: “We are really excited to launch our newest partnership at a venue at the real heart of the Wishaw community. 
“We believe there are lots of older adults in the area who have a passion for talking about sport and who will benefit from attending a weekly group with like minded people. 
“Our taster sessions give local people a flavour of what we do and hopefully we can establish a weekly club at the venue in the near future. We can’t wait to get started.”
The taster sessions are free to attend and refreshments are also provided.
The next session at Chest Heart & Stroke Scotland’s Wishaw hub is on Monday, November 11, from 11am to 12.30pm.
Volunteers are also being sought to help run the weekly club and an information session is being held on Monday, November 18, from 11am to 12.30pm.
Full training will be provided to volunteers.
For more information on the sessions or becoming a volunteer contact Jim Purvis on 07752 436587 or email jim@thesmf.co.uk
You can also visit their website at www.thesmf.co.uk
John Whitelaw sees first hand the benefits that sporting memories have for older people.
The 66-year-old, who is Wishaw born and bred, volunteered for the Sporting Memories Foundation Scotland (SMFS) after retiring from his job with the civil service.
A former junior footballer with Larkhall Thistle, John is helping to get the Wishaw sessions up and running.
He recalls how he got involved with SMFS in East Kilbride where he lives.
He said: “I had actually seen a news item on TV about former Scotland and Rangers player Eric Caldow visiting a day care centre and it became apparent that he himself had dementia.
“Then I was in church and a guy came up to me and said he thought it would be right up my street to volunteer.
“I’d tried various things I had wanted to do in the community but never really got anywhere. I had a look at it and thought why not.
“I was encouraged to come along and I’ve never looked back since. I wish I’d loved my job as much as I loved this.
“I was approached a while ago when it was suggested new groups should be started in Drumchapel and Wishaw and asked which I’d prefer.
“I didn’t hesitate to choose Wishaw being born and bred there.”
As well as from his own playing career John has his own football stories as a supporter.
As a young boy his family stayed through the wall from Motherwell trainer Tommy McKenzie.
Along with his dad Tommy was one of the main influences on him becoming a Well supporter from an early age.
“I got loads of memorabilia and as I got a wee bit older even inside information before it hit the newspaper,” said John.
“I had a love of football from my dad. And Willie McKenzie, Tommy’s brother, stayed across the road.”
John is already responsible for running two groups in East Kilbride.
“It’s not just football we talk about at the groups, it’s others sports too” John revealed.
“We were talking about the rugby the other day with the World Cup being on.
“We’re hoping to get attendees and some volunteers along to help run the Wishaw group.”
