
# Crude oil intake normalises at Hengyuan, Petron refineries

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:03:48+00:00**

Author: **Chong Jin Hun**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/crude-oil-intake-normalises-hengyuan-petron-refineries)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 1): Hengyuan Refining Co Bhd and Petron Malaysia Refining & Marketing Bhd said today crude oil intake at their respective refineries at Port Dickson has normalised after repair work was completed at their crude oil offloading facilities there.
In separate statements to Bursa Malaysia today, Hengyuan and Petron Malaysia said repair work for the crude oil offloading facilities known as the single-buoy mooring (SBM) system was completed yesterday (Oct 31).
Hengyuan said: "The company is pleased to announce that the repair works to the underwater valve were completed on Oct 31, 2019 and the crude intake to Hengyuan's refinery has returned to normal operational levels.
"The company is still in the process of investigating the causes of damage and assessing its financial impact."
Petron Malaysia said the SBM repair was completed by the facility operator earlier than expected.
"Following observation and monitoring of the SBM's operational capabilities post repair works, Petron Malaysia is able to report that the SBM is now capable of receiving crude oil from ships for purposes of processing at the refinery," Petron Malaysia said.
Hengyuan and Petron Malaysia had initially announced to Bursa on Oct 22 this year the technical problems at their SBM facilities.
Both companies said then the SBM facilities' operations were anticipated to normalise by early November 2019.
At Bursa's afternoon close today, Hengyuan's share price settled down three sen or 0.7% at RM4.25. Petron Malaysia fell four sen or 0.79% to RM5.02.
