
# Lenovo announces Black Friday sales schedule for the US and Canada

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:23:28+00:00**

Author: **Zach Laidlaw**

Original: [Android Police](https://www.androidpolice.com/2019/11/01/lenovo-announces-black-friday-sales-schedule-for-the-us-and-canada/)

Halloween has come to an end, and the largest names in consumer electronics are gearing up for their 2019 seasonal sales. Lenovo's holiday offering is packed with a variety of deals orchestrated at specific times and days throughout Black Friday weekend. To make sure you get all the gadgets and accessories on your wishlist, we have the rundown on when you'll need to log on to Lenovo's website.
Please note that Lenovo's sale is running on an Eastern Standard time schedule, so you'll need to make the proper adjustments for your specific timezone. All offers are valid only for customers living in the United States and Canada. Below are just some of the best US deals, but Lenovo has a ton of sales on other devices, like Windows laptops, gaming gear, etc.
Black Friday weekend (November 28th – December 2nd)
Thanksgiving Day (November 28th)
Black Friday (November 29th)
Saturday and Sunday promotion
Cyber Monday (December 2nd)
US customers can redeem an extra 3% credit on holiday sale purchases by enrolling in the MyLenovo Rewards loyalty program. For a more comprehensive look at everything this sale entails, check out the official online catalog available for the United States and Canada.
Source: Lenovo (1), (2)

        Via: 
        Business Wire
      
