
# Cenk Tosun vows Everton players will motivate Andre Gomes during injury lay-off

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **David Maddock, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-maddock/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/cenk-tosun-vows-everton-players-20810886)

Cenk Tosun has revealed how the Everton squad will provide stricken team-mate Andre Gomes with all the drive he needs to play football at the highest level again.
Gomes, 26, underwent surgery in a Liverpool hospital on Sunday to repair a fracture dislocation of his right ankle and ligament damage after his horror injury against Spurs.
His recovery will be long and arduous.
As Gomes lay on Goodison Park pitch in agony on Sunday, close friend Tosun was holding his head.
“I just hope and pray he comes back stronger,” said Tosun. “We will give him the motivation he needs.
“It will be a tough time for Andre but sometimes in football, these injuries happen.
“Everyone is just so sad, I really feel for him – we are good friends, we sit at the same table together at Finch Farm.”
When Gomes went down after the challenge which saw Heung-min Son sent off, Spurs were leading 1-0. Deep into stoppage time, Tosun’s superb header salvaged Everton a point.
“He always helps me when we are on the pitch together too. When he went off, I just tried to score for him,” said Tosun.
Everton are confident Portuguese star Gomes will make a full recovery, with doctors at the Aintree hospital reassuring the player he will be back within a normal time-frame for such a fracture.
It could be 12 months or beyond but he has the perfect example in Blues skipper Seamus Coleman, who suffered a similar leg break in 2017.
He endured a long and demanding rehab and returned a year later.
Turkish international Tosun explained that Coleman also sits with Gomes, Yerry Mina and him at the lunch table at the training ground and all of them will visit their friend in hospital this week.
Tosun, a 68th minute substitute whose goal was a comeback of sorts for him of his own after a long period in the Everton wilderness, added: “If we had a few minutes more, we would have won it for him.
“We were pressing and pressing for him. It is for him. The goal is for him, the point is for him.
“The fans, us, the staff, we were all so upset. We could not even celebrate our point. Everybody is sad inside. Some players cried.
“I was so happy, I was waiting such a long time for this goal but obviously I could not even enjoy it.”
Teammate Mason Holgate said: “It shows what we are about as a team. We got together and I think it drove us on a bit more once we got going, trying to do it for Andre.
“In the dressing room afterwards It was really flat. It was like we had been beaten. He is all our friend and our team-mate so we are all gutted and wishing him the best.
“It’s hard to cope with. I have been on the pitch for two, I saw James McCarthy’s aswell and both were the same in that everything goes flat.”
