
# Now, all-in-one Microsoft app for Word, Excel, PowerPoint on Android, iOS

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:12:00+00:00**

Author: **IANS**

Original: [Business-Standard](https://www.business-standard.com/article/technology/now-all-in-one-microsoft-app-for-word-excel-powerpoint-on-android-ios-119110401662_1.html)

Microsoft on Monday unveiled a new Office app for iOS and Android that combines three most popular apps -- Word, Excel and PowerPoint -- into a single go-to app for mobile productivity.
The users no longer need to download each app separately, the tech giant announced at its flagship "Ignite" conference.
"With the new Actions pane, you can intuitively complete a variety of common on-the-go tasks, such as creating and signing PDFs and sharing files between devices," said Jared Spataro, Corporate Vice President for Microsoft 365.
Launched as a public preview, the Office app is available to Android users through Google Play Store and to iOS users through Apple's TestFlight programme.
The new Office app uses the unique advantages of mobile devices to make content creation easier. For instance, you can snap the picture of a document and turn it into an editable word file, or transform tables from a printed page to Excel.
The company also announced the general availability of the all-new Chromium-based Microsoft Edge browser set for January 15 release. The all-new Microsoft Edge offers the enterprise new tab page, where users will have direct access to Microsoft 365 files.
Microsoft Edge is now available across devices, including Windows 10, Windows 8x, Windows 7, macOS, iOS and Android, said the company.
