
# Walmart Black Friday 2019 Sales: What We Know So Far

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/11/03/walmart-black-friday-2019-sales-what-we-know-so-far-iphone-11-galaxy-s10-note10-xbox-ps4-pro-tv-deals/)

This story was written in collaboration with Forbes Finds. Forbes Finds covers products we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes and the author may receive a small share of that sale.Walmart’s Black Friday sales are already off to a flying start because the first deals are now live. Furthermore, with the first big ad leak and live sales also going on from Best Buy and from Amazon (lookout for major savings on Apple devices and Samsung Galaxy phones and TVs) we know a lot more about Walmart’s biggest holiday sales plans.  

        Amazon Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Walmart’s Black Friday 2019 Shipping Policy
      
Despite official shipping policy news from Best Buy and from Target, Walmart has kept silent. But this silence is telling. Target has long had the best Black Friday shipping terms and it was keen to promote this. Similarly, Best Buy’s announcement was an upgrade to match Target. But, speaking to industry insiders, the bad news is Walmart’s silence is because the store will stick to the same $35 minimum spend for free shipping as in previous years. 
The good news? It looks like you’ll want to spend a lot more than $35 on Walmart’s 2019 Black Friday sales. 

        Walmart Black Friday 2019: Current Live Sales 
      

        Apple Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Walmart Black Friday 2019: Expected Sales
      
While Walmart’s current sales are solid, they are also just a tease for the main event and you can expect headliners like the iPhone 11 Series, Galaxy S10 and Note 10, Xbox One X and PS4 Pro to all join in. Walmart is also under pressure after a leaked ad scan revealed Costco’s jaw-dropping Samsung savings this year. 
Consequently, these are doorbuster deals you should look out for during Walmart’s Black Friday 2019: 

        Samsung Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
Interestingly, many of Walmart’s biggest Black Friday deals have alternative sales which are actually live now. Walmart will deliver larger savings on Black Friday itself but stock will be low - particularly its headlining iPhone 11 series $300 deal. I also can’t see Walmart beating many of the current Samsung TV sales. 
That said, Walmart will deliver close to best-of-class deals on all major smartphones, games consoles and both premium and budget TV options - which should see it standout during Black Friday 2019. That is Walmart’s strength: it has everything. 
If you can’t want for Black Friday itself and want a deal now, check out my dedicated store-by-store, Black Friday deals guides for Amazon’s early live deals, Best Buy’s live deals, Walmart’s live deals and major Apple sales and Samsung savings. 
To track my daily Black Friday guides, leaks and recommendations hit the Follow button on my author page. 
___

        More of my Black Friday Guides on Forbes
      
