
# Naomh Conaill look for extra gas as game gets green light

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **By Gerry McLaughlin**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/gaafootball/2019/11/02/news/naomh-conaill-look-for-extra-gas-as-game-gets-green-light-1754526/)

IN a week when a local doctor has written to the Ulster Council asking for this match to be put back on medical grounds, the outcome of this tie could well depend on the general condition of Naomh Conaill.
For, they have understandably been celebrating a county championship triumph after three titanic tussles against Gaoth Dobhair and this would be their fourth high level game in 14 days
Dr Charlie McManus, doctor to the Naomh Conaill team, and who was also involved as part of Jim McGuinness’s back-room All-Ireland winning team, has written to the Council claiming that asking Glenties play again on Sunday is unfair on many levels.
However, last night the Donegal champions confirmed that the game would be continuing as scheduled.
Dr McManus had called on all parents, followers etc to get in contact with Croke Park and the Ulster Council to voice their strong opinions. He also said that if his appeal was unsuccessful, the Ulster Council should provide the medical grounds on which this game in Breffni Park should go ahead.
In fairness to Castlerahan this has nothing to do with the Cavan champions, who have been patiently awaiting the outcome of the Donegal county final.
The attitude of veteran Glenties veteran player Brendan McDyer earlier this week had indicated a different view and also a desire to do well in Ulster.
After the Wednesday night game, McDyer told The Irish News that a delay would be unfair on Castlerahan who bore no blame in this matter.
“No that would not be fair on Castlerahan who have played out their county championship and are waiting to play the Donegal champions,'' he said.
“It is not their fault that we had three matches so we will focus on the next test over the weekend and we won’t be complaining about too many games taking a toll on us.”
The game could all hinge on how able the Glenties side are from a physical and psychological state against the Cian Mackey-powered boys from Ballyjamesduff.
Castlerahan, who had a tough opener against Killygarry, were barely tested against Cavan Gaels in the semi-final and defeated Ramor United in the final to complete their second county title on the trot.
They lost to Eoghan Rua of Derry in the quarter-finals last year but Mackey has said the club were not really focusing on Ulster after the joys of winning their first ever Cavan county title.
But they are a resilient bunch as demonstrated when they lost their star midfielder David Wright before the clash with Cavan Gaels with Fergal Flanagan stepping in to do a fine job.
Like Glenties, Castlerahan have a firm game-plan under ex-Cavan boss Donal Keogan who only came back to manage the club belatedly after leading them to the ultimate achievement last year.
Keogan has had a huge impact on Mackey and his men who have now won two Cavan County Championships and two league titles on the trot.
They beat Ramor United by 1-9 to 0-10 in a tense decider where the banished the blues of losing three finals in a row in the space of six seasons.
In this they have a type of common cause with their Glenties opponents who banished the spectre of losing finals in 2017 and 2018.
So, both teams have been tempered like good metal in the embers of sad defeat, which will make both of them all the more determined to advance on Sunday.
Castlerahan are a rare bird in that no less than nine different players scored in their tight win over Ramor United with Oisin O’Connell grabbing the all-important goal.
Oisin Kieran, Shane O’Reilly, Cormac Daly, Enda O’Connell and Karl Cosgrove are all major figures for the Cavan champions.
But, Glenties are a vastly experienced side with players like Leo McLoone, Anthony Thompson, Marty Boyle, Brendan McDyer, Dara Gallagher and Eoin Waide who all now have four county championship medals.
And McLoone, Thompson and Boyle also won All-Ireland senior medals in 2012 under their club-mate Jim McGuinness.
They also appeared in an Ulster Club final in 2010 where they were narrowly beaten by the all-conquering Crossmaglen Rangers after leading the Armagh champions at half-time.
Dermot Molloy, AJ Gallagher and Aaron Thompson were also key figures on this side.
Glenties have appeared in seven of the last 10 finals in Donegal winning three and losing four.
They would have an edge in this respect on their opponents.
But this is not a normal situation, and if they run out of steam then the mighty Mackey powered Castlerahan have the patience and artillery to advance. Otherwise, it should be a Glenties victory.
