
# WWD Report Card: Does That Come With a Wand?

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:04+00:00**

Author: **Leigh Nordstrom, Alex Badia**

Original: [WWD](https://wwd.com/eye/lifestyle/wwd-report-card-best-worst-billie-eilish-laura-dern-rosalia-1203363559/)

Best and worst of the week:

        Dakota Johnson: B+
      
She does the sequined tuxedo look very well. The smoky eye, pulled-back hair and black nails are sexy yet timeless. The denim-friendly belt feels out of place, though.

        Rosalía: C+
      
We’re all about a heritage flamenco allover polka dot — but this falls flat. She’s very successfully modernizing flamenco music, but it doesn’t translate well to clothing in this attempt.

        Billie Eilish: B-
      
Eilish is known for favoring the slouch, but the pajama fabric here makes it feel too akin to a Snuggie. We are loving the dramatic sunglasses and green roots, though.

        Brie Larson: D+
      
We hope that this fairy-godmother gown comes with a wand — that way she can turn this dress into something less bippity-boppity-boop.

        Nicole Kidman: D
      
Is she preparing for the sequel of “The Others?” That’s the only thing that would excuse this ghost-like look.

        Laura Dern: C-
      
Between the beehive and the matriarchal dress, the aggressive cleavage feels confusing. We prefer Dern with a bit more edge — and less body oil.

        Dua Lipa: B+
      
She’s unapologetic in this look: the extreme bleached hair pulled back, with the corset and garter, exudes confidence and fierceness. We want to be part of this clique.

        Cynthia Erivo: A-
      
There is a major tension between the punkness and prettiness with the hair spikes and the baby pink formfitting gown. The shade of the dress is complimented by the hot pink stiletto — though we would lose the bracelets.
