
# Surface Pro X review roundup: Not the kind of “Pro” you’d like to have

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Raka**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/surface-pro-x-review-roundup-not-the-kind-of-pro-youd-like-to-have/)

Microsoft launched the Surface Pro X along with Surface Laptop 3 and Surface Pro 7 last month. The Pro X is Microsoft’s first Surface that uses an ARM chip that’s made by Microsoft, of course, with some help from Qualcomm. While the design aesthetic of the Pro X is praiseworthy, if there is something that kind of held customers back from pre-ordering the Pro X, it’s the concern regarding the performance!
Luckily, the wait is over and reviews of the Surface Pro X are finally out! We have compiled the reviews of Surface Pro X from various outlets and from what we’ve understood, the Surface Pro X isn’t the kind of “Pro” you’d like to have. You can find out whys and wherefores in the review round-up below.
While Engadget seems to have all the praise for the Surface Pro X, it pointed out a couple of major flaws in the Pro X model and those are the limited app compatibility and various software bugs. And while Microsoft could fix all those issues by issuing a software update, according to the Engadget, a Chromebook or a Surface Pro 7 is a far better choice than the Surface Pro X.
You can read Engadget’s full review here.
According to The Verge, the Surface Pro X is “a computer built for a world that doesn’t exist.” The Verge gives the due credit to Microsoft for beautiful design, screen quality, and the stylus, but it appears that the tradeoffs are so huge that they will force customers to look somewhere else.
You can read the full review of The Verge here.
CNN comes with a similar story. Screen quality, design, keyboard, stylus are all those things that make the Surface Pro X attractive, but with all those good things, comes compromises in performance, battery life, and most importantly, cost.
You can read CNN’s full review here.
You can read the full review of Petri here.
Gizmodo has a slightly different perspective on Surface Pro X. While the reviewer has acknowledged all the issues that come with Microsoft’s ARM-powered Pro, the Pro X, according to the reviewer, can be a great alternative to Chromebooks as the former has better compatibility for desktop-class software.
You can check out Gizmodo’s full review here.
While Surface Pro X has its flaws, if your usage is geared towards watching Netflix, checking emails, light web browsing, then Surface Pro X isn’t a bad choice. And if that’s all you want, you can go ahead and order the Pro X right now from Amazon.
