
# Harrowing hospital bed image of teen whose lungs stopped due to vaping addiction

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:25:33+00:00**

Author: **Amber Hicks, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/harrowing-hospital-bed-image-teen-20800888)

A teenager has shared a harrowing photograph of herself in a coma after she almost died from vaping.
Simah Herman lies unconscious, clad in a hospital gown and surrounded by tubes while hooked up to a ventilator in the disturbing picture.
Another photo from her hospital bed shows her determination to stop others suffering the same fate, as she holds up a sign calling for an end to vaping.
Days earlier, she had been rushed to hospital by her father after gasping for air, being unable to move or drink and 'wanting to crawl out of her skin'.
She had told him before he left for work: 'You cannot go, I'm gonna die'.
"On the way, I told my dad 'don't let me fall asleep and don't let me close my eyes or I will not wake up,'" she said to Sky News .
 
The 18-year-old's health began to rapidly decline and at first, doctors thought she may have pneumonia.
An X-ray revealed her lungs were inflamed and full of fluid and within 48 hours they had failed.
Simah, from Long Beach, New York, spent the following days on a ventilator before she was put on a medically-induced coma fighting for her life.
Her family had even been told to prepare for the worst.
But when she woke up days later, the first thing she did when she opened her eyes was to ask for a pen and paper.
She wrote ‘I want to start a no-vaping campaign.’
Simah, who first started vaping aged 15, had kept her smoking a secret from her parents.
And despite being a minor, would purchase the fruit flavoured cartridges from a shop.
She had tried to quit twice, but the longest she lasted without vaping was a day, which left her "completely miserable".
It made her realise she was "a prisoner to my addiction."
"I never would have vaped if they weren't flavoured," she told Mail Online , adding that she funded her habit by babysitting and skipping lunch.
"I tried the regular cigarette and it was disgusting. No teenager would want to vape that. But I was vaping mango and it tasted good, like I was eating mango."
 
In the two years that followed, Simah lost 50 pounds (three-and-a-half stone) “without trying” because she felt sick all the time.
She often felt dizzy and would black out from the "stupid little cigarette".
However, she was hooked and vaping "constantly all day, every day", with the total amount of nicotine in one cartridge equaling a pack of cigarettes.
Shockingly, before she was rushed to hospital she would be using a vape pen every 15 minutes.
She said: "You don't really realise how much you are actually smoking. It's not like you are lightening a cigarette and watching it burn. This is just so convenient and I would vape all day long.
"I wouldn't go places with my mom if I thought I couldn't vape."
 
Simah admitted vaping "was my oxygen" and she could not live without it.
"It took me almost dying to quit," she added.
Sharing the hospital-bed photos in an emotional Instagram post, Simah said: "Two weeks ago I started having trouble breathing.
"It took 48 hours for my lungs to fail which led to me being put on a ventilator.
"This is all because of vaping. Vaping is advertised as 'a healthier alternative to smoking' which is false.
"Whether it’s nicotine or weed vaping can be fatal. I was lucky.
 
"The doctors didn’t think I was going to make it but with prayers from family and friends I pulled through after almost a week on a ventilator.
"No one thinks this will happen to them and neither did I which is why I kept vaping.
"It took less than 48 hours for me to be put in a drug induced coma and a tube put down my throat because I could no longer breathe on my own."
Mum Stacy was "shocked" when she discovered her daughter's secret addition. 
The mother-of-three said: "It's not like the cigarettes of the past where you can smell it. This is like scented candles, like bubble gum. It's undetectable.
"As a parent, what kills me the most is that she was doing it in the house. It's undetectable. It looks like a pink mascara wand."
She added to ABC News : “The fact that they market this crap to children, and they turn it into pink, pretty purple packaging p*sses me off."
As we previously reported, a number of people in the US have died recently from a vaping-related illness.
In the UK, Public Health England (PHE) stands by its claim that vaping is 95% less harmful than smoking.
It has come under fire from some academics who say the organisation is wilfully ignoring mounting evidence that vaping is harmful.
Martin Dockrell, tobacco control lead at PHE, said: "A full investigation is not yet available but indications are that the US cases have been linked to people using illicit vaping fluid bought on the streets or home-made, some containing cannabis products like THC oil or synthetic cannabinoids like spice, and others Vitamin E acetate oil.
"This is not the same as using UK regulated nicotine products. Unlike the US, all nicotine-containing e-cigarette products in the UK are tightly regulated for quality and safety by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency and they operate the Yellow Card Scheme, encouraging vapers to report any adverse effects.
"Public Health England's advice remains that vaping carries a small fraction of the risk of smoking."
