
# Suspect in murder of three young brothers is found drowned 20 years later

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:06:18+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/suspect-murder-three-young-brothers-20807115)

A man suspected of the sectarian murder of three children in Northern Ireland has been found dead in a river.
Raymond Parke was implicated in the killings of brothers Richard, Mark and Jason Quinn, aged 10, nine and eight respectively.
Parke, reportedly a member of the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), never stood trial over the brothers' deaths in a petrol bomb attack at their home in 1998.
A relative of the boys says he hopes the suspected killer "rots in hell".
He was identified by getaway driver Garfield Gilmour, who was later convicted of manslaughter.
 
Parke, a father-of-two, was found dead in Coleraine on Thursday, shortly after his worried family issued an appeal for help finding him.
Police are not viewing his death as suspicious.
The boys' uncle, Frankie Quinn - who had to identify their burned bodies - told the Sunday World: "I hope he rots in hell."
The three Catholic boys died after the bomb was thrown into the family home in Ballymoney, County Antrim, on July 12, 1998.
 
Their mum, Chrissie Quinn, survived after jumping out of an upstairs window, the Belfast Telegraph reports .
Brother Lee was not at home when the attack happened as he was staying with his grandparents.
The killings happened hours before a July 12 Orangemen parade in Portadown.
During the week it happened, there were 137 petrol bomb attacks on Catholic homes.
Gimour was jailed for 14 years for his role in the killings.
Giving evidence, he told the court that Parke and another man, Johnny McKay, had carried out the petrol bombing.
Parke was arrested, but never charged.
A spokesman from the Police Service Northern Ireland (PSNI) said: "A  post mortem has been carried out following the death of a man, whose body was discovered in the River Bann, Coleraine on Thursday 31st October.
"The death is not being treated as suspicious."
