
# ‘Madden 20’ November Patch Addresses Franchise And Adds New X-Factor Zone Ability

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/04/madden-20-november-patch-addresses-franchise-and-adds-new-x-factor-zone-ability/)

The patch notes for the November title update on Madden 20 has been rolled out. As usual, EA delivered a comprehensive breakdown of their latest update with a clear and detailed explanation of each aspect of the patch. Here are the details, per EA:

        Key Highlights
      
It’s great to see EA adding zone abilities throughout the life cycle of this year’s Madden. While the game is as arcade as it’s ever been, it is at least well managed and fun. Much of that has to do with the constant care shown to the details.

        Global Updates
      
Updating details like the “NFL 100” logo isn’t all that impacting in the grand scheme of things. However, because it likely took minimal effort to add this detail, it was a worthy addition to the overall authenticity.

        Franchise Updates
      
Initially, the Zone and Superstar abilities from October’s update weren’t included in franchise mode. That has changed which should make new and existing franchise saves a little more lively. It would still be nice if you could create players from scratch and give them Superstar and Zone abilities outside of a franchise mode.

        Presentation Updates
      

        Gameplay Updates
      
“Mossed” was predictably overpowered after it was introduced in the October update. I haven’t had a chance to test it after this update, but it’ll be interesting to see ho much of a nerf it has received.

        Ultimate Team Updates
      

        Superstar KO
      
Who doesn’t like the addition of players like Deion Sanders and Troy Polamalu? Stay tuned for more information on this and future Madden updates.
