
# Pakistan says US terror report overlooks factual situation, urges constructive engagement

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:36:40+00:00**

Author: **​ Our Correspondent**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2093797/1-pakistan-says-us-terror-report-overlooks-factual-situation-urges-constructive-engagement/)

Pakistan on Tuesday expressed disappointment over a terrorism report published by the United States Department of State and said the “report completely overlooks the factual situation on the ground”.
“The report completely overlooks the factual situation on the ground and the tremendous contribution made and sacrifices rendered by Pakistan over the last two decades in the international struggle against terrorism,” said a statement released by the Foreign Office (FO).
The ‘Country Report on Terrorism 2018’ by the US State Department stated that the government of Pakistan “failed to significantly limit Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) from raising money, recruiting, and training in Pakistan – and allowed candidates overtly affiliated with LeT front organisations to contest the July general elections”.
Criticising the report, the FO added that efforts by Pakistan “have not only resulted in the elimination of Al-Qaeda from this region, but have also made the world a safer place”.
Washington’s report further said that Islamabad failed to implement significant action on Anti-Money laundering (AML) and Combating the Financing of Terrorism  (CFT) regimes placed by the United Nations and hence, was placed on the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) grey list.
Refusing the allegation, the FO categorically stated Pakistan has taken “extensive legal and administrative measures for the implementation of its obligations under the UNSC 1267 sanctions regime for the freezing of assets and denial of funds and economic resources to all designated entities and individuals”.
Citing the positive role played by Islamabad towards the collective goal of Afghan peace, the government maintained that “Pakistan’s positive contribution in this regard has been widely acknowledged, including by the US and its leadership. Any insinuation to the contrary is unwarranted and is inconsistent with the positive trajectory of the bilateral relations”.
Islamabad further said that the US report had also noted that the country still faces the threat of terrorism from a number of groups including the TTP, JuA and ISKP.
“The report, however, fails to mention that these groups continue to operate and conduct terrorist activities against Pakistan from across the border.”
The FO statement concluded that Pakistan has always stressed that counter-terrorism efforts can be effectively advanced through constructive engagement.
“We have always stressed that counter-terrorism efforts can be effectively advanced through constructive engagement. We hope Pakistan’s commitment, contributions and sacrifices would be fully recognized and appreciated in the right perspective.”
 
