
# Target Unleashes Massive 54-Page Black Friday Guide For Anyone To Score A Deal

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mikelle Leow**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407248/Target-Unleashes-Massive-54-Page-Black-Friday-Guide-For-Anyone-To-Score-A-Deal/)

Target has launched its ad for its “most epic” Black Friday sale, so you can avoid both the Black Friday and Christmas crowds. This year’s Black Friday guide is 54-pages-long, so there’s likely something for everyone. Notable steals include a US$299.99 Nintendo Switch with a free Mario Kart 8 Deluxe game, US$129.99 Beats Solo3 Wireless headphones, an updated US$64.95 Instant Pot, and a Google Home Mini at just US$19. 2019 iPhones with free US$200 Target gift cards and Samsung Galaxy models with US$400 gift cards have also been thrown into the mix. A Black Friday Preview Sale will take place on Friday, 8 November and Saturday, 9 November at stores and online for anyone wishing to get first dibs on home products, electronics, toys, and more. However, you might want to wait until Thanksgiving morning on 28 November, when you’re expected to enjoy more savings. All Black Friday deals will be made available then. Those keen on embracing the true frenzied nature of Black Friday sales should wait outside stores by 5pm, when the outlets will open. If you’re a RedCard subscriber, that’s even better, as members will get early access to over 100 Black Friday deals on 27 November via Target.com. Throughout November and early December, though, the retailer has prepared a whole lineup of shopping holidays to help you save up—or burn a hole in your wallet. Following the pre-Black Friday sales, Target will hold an event every weekend from 16 November to 15 December. Black Friday and Doorbuster sales will take place between 28 and 30 November, and shoppers can grab even more savings during Cyber Week on 1 to 8 December; and if that’s not enough, there’ll be another sale on 9 December. Preview some deals below, as well as take a look at Target’s deal calendar for the holiday season. Check out the store’s Black Friday guide here.
[via Mashable, images via Target]
