
# Ethereum (ETH) Forming Bearish Pattern, $186 Hold Key

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:08:42+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/07/ethereum-eth-forming-bearish-pattern-186-hold-key/)


        Ethereum price is forming a bearish breakdown pattern versus the US Dollar, while bitcoin is trading below $9,400. ETH price could decline heavily if it breaks $186.
      
Recently, there was a decent rise in Ethereum above the $188 and $190 resistance levels against the US Dollar. Moreover, ETH price traded above the $192 resistance area and settled above the 100 hourly simple moving average.
However, the price faced a strong resistance near the $195 level and a high was formed near $195. There was a downward move from the $195 and the price traded below the $190 level.
At the outset, Ethereum is holding the $188 and $186 support levels. On the upside, an immediate resistance is near the $192 level. Besides, the 50% Fib retracement level of the recent decline from the $195 high to $188 low is near the $192 zone.
Therefore, an upside break above the $192 level might push the price towards the $195 resistance. An intermediate resistance is near the 76.4% Fib retracement level of the recent decline from the $195 high to $188 low.
On the downside, there are many supports near the $188 and $186 levels. More importantly, this week’s key bullish trend line is intact with support near $188 on the hourly chart of ETH/USD.
It seems like there is a head and shoulders pattern forming with support near the $188 and $186 levels. Thus, if there is a bearish break below the $186 support, the price could start a fresh decline in the near term.
The next key support is near the $185 level. Any further losses are likely to push the price back towards the main $178 support area.
Looking at the chart, Ethereum price seems to be preparing for the next move, with key supports near $186 and the 100 hourly simple moving average. If the highlighted head and shoulders pattern plays well, the price could decline towards the $180 and $178 support levels in the short term.
Hourly MACD – The MACD for ETH/USD is now moving in the bearish zone.
Hourly RSI – The RSI for ETH/USD is currently declining and it is well below the 50 level.
Major Support Level – $186
Major Resistance Level – $192
