
# Strictly's Mike Bushell books Blackpool hotel room despite dance-off appearances

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:43:57+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/strictlys-mike-bushell-booked-blackpool-20820995)

Strictly Come Dancing star Mike Bushell has confessed that he's already booked himself a hotel room in Blackpool before the show goes live there in two weeks time.
Each year, the celebrities and their professional dance partners mark a performance at the seaside town in their minds as a key milestone in the competition.
But sadly, not everyone makes it to the Tower Ballroom.
And despite being in the dance-off three times in a row, hopeful BBC presenter Mike has already sorted himself digs for the night in the northern town.
Mike admitted he forked out with his own cash so he can visit Blackpool even if he does get booted off before then.
He told the Daily Star: "I’ve always wanted to go to Blackpool. I was going along to support the others. I’m going to Blackpool whatever.
“I’ve booked the hotel and I’ve paid for it myself and I’m going to cheer everyone else on.
"If I’m there as part of the competition that would be amazing and be a bonus but I’m going anyway to cheer them all on," vowed Mike.
The sports presenter won his third dance-off in a row with partner Katya Jones last weekend as they danced the Charleston against Viscountess Emma Weymouth and Aljaz Skorjanec.
Mike has had a turbulent time in the competition and been visciously trolled on social media.
But he's been keeping in good spirits despite the drama and joked that his appearances in the dance-off were replacing “replacing Poldark and Line Of Duty as the Sunday night drama”.
While his partner Katya vowed to quit social media over the backlash surrounding their survival in the dance compeition.
The 30-year-old told the Sun on Sunday : "I'm off social media; it's not real.
"For me, it's real what we're doing with our dancing and performance.
"There's no need for negatives. I just want to do my own thing."
But just days later, she took to Instagram to share a snap of herself holding Mike up in the air as he balanced on her back.
She said: "We’ve got each other’s back partner @mikebushellofficial ! Always making me a proud teacher! Look how far you’ve come! Thank you everyone who supports us! Week 8! Wow"
