
# Asda staff accused of 'eyeballing' shopper banned for calling assistant 'd**khead'

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:50:33+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, Tom Kershaw, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/asda-staff-accused-eyeballing-shopper-20787143)

A women who jokingly called a shop assistant a d**khead feels like staff are staring at her following her ban from the shop.
Rakel Bryan was barred from the Hull store after having an argument with a member of staff over cigarette papers.
The 29-year-old was challenged by the vendor about her age when she tried to buy the smoking paraphernalia, prompting her to blurt out the slur.
“I said 'aw shut up d**khead', as a joke. I thought he was laughing with me and then he said, ‘no I’m being serious’," Rakel said.
“I said ‘how dare you ID me?’.
 
“I had a panic attack, I felt like everyone was staring at me.”
The day after the October 16 confrontation Rakel was "frog marched" from the shop and handed a three year ban, Hull Daily Mail reported .
But the spurned shopper has to accompany her mum - who has mobility issues - to the Asda shop, leading to awkward encounters.
"I feel like I'm being treated like a criminal and feel really intimidated when I go near the store," she said.
"I have to hang about where my mum goes to do her shopping in 15 to 20 minutes.
 
"It's like I'm a naughty child and I have to stand outside on the naughty step or something.
"It's been four or five times where I have been to Asda, and because my mum is unsteady on her feet we wouldn't go into town [city centre].
"We eat fresh and visit [Asda] most days to get ingredients for our tea."
In a further meeting with the store manager Rakel was told she had been banned because she 'had been racist", she claimed.
She refuted the suggestion and spoke about how the ban had impacted her life.
"Staff members are eyeballing while I'm stood outside - it's a little bit embarrassing more than anything," Rakel added.
"It has just been blown out of proportion and now I have to stand outside like a naughty child."
An Asda spokesperson confirmed the ban and said: "While we would never discuss individual circumstances, we take any concerns of this nature seriously and will not tolerate any form of abuse or discrimination towards our customers or colleagues."
