
# Eddie Jones' wife Hiroko is Japanese teacher who caught his eye as they worked at same school

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:18:00+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/eddie-jones-wife-hiroko-japanese-20788442)

Eddie Jones likes to warn his England team about complacency - just as his wife does to him at home.
Jones credit Hiroko as being the woman who keeps him grounded when pressure moments come around, such as the Rugby World Cup Final this weekend.
The pair met in the early 90s as Jones was teaching geography at the International Grammar School in Sydney.
He became close with Hiroko, who was also working at the school teaching Japanese.
Jones is part Japanese, having been born to a Japanese American mother and an Australian father.
The pair have one daughter together, Chelsea, who has been brought up bilingual.
Jones has a close bond with Japan - not least because he coached their national team to a famous victory over South Africa in 2015.
But whether it be at times of need, or at times of celebration, Hiroko is always on hand to ensure that Jones has a wise owl looking over him.
"It’s nice to have a wife with her feet on the ground," Jones said in 2016.
"I remember when I got sacked as the Wallabies’ coach. I came home absolutely distraught because it was my dream job. She said: ‘Right, where are we going next?’
"You find most players, who come from a good home with parents, wife or family that is level-headed, find it easier to keep their feet on the ground.
"When you haven’t got that around and you have people around you to take advantage of some success and want you to do that extra commercial activity or change your hairstyle because it will look good on Saturday, then it’s harder."

        Buy the official programme for the Rugby World Cup final for just £10 at reachsportshop.com
      
