
# Higgs takes two-shot lead into final round in Bermuda

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:58:33+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-golf-bermuda-idUSKBN1XD021)

(Reuters) - Leader Harry Higgs will be out to avoid being caught napping when he takes a two-shot lead over fellow American Brendon Todd into the final round of the Bermuda Championship on Sunday.
Higgs, a multiple winner on the minor circuits who is finally getting a crack at the big time, jumped clear with a six-under-par 65 at Port Royal on Saturday.
After going 49 holes without a bogey, he missed out on a half century, dropping a shot at the par-four 14th after hitting a weak putt.
“I knew I needed to hit that putt way harder. I got a little irritated, but I just laughed,” Higgs said after posting a 17-under 196 total.
“I figured I was going to make a bogey at some point. I didn’t want to, but I was probably going to do it.”
Though PGA Tour rookie Higgs has not been in such a lofty position during his brief time in the major league, he takes comfort from being a regular contender in other professional tournaments.
“I’ve won twice in the last 13 months and I’ve had countless other chances to win,” he said.
“I’ve played with the lead a lot for the last year, so in a
way that makes you comfortable, but you’re still uncomfortable the whole time. I’ve got a good idea how I’ll feel.”
Higgs often enjoys a siesta when time allows, but will have no time for such a luxury on Sunday.
“Tomorrow will be a difficult day with all that goes on with leading after three rounds, but I’m looking forward to it,” he said.
