
# Review: The CZ P-09 Standard-Sized 9mm Pistol

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:00:57+00:00**

Author: **AWR Hawkins**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/sports/2019/11/07/review-the-cz-p-09-9mm-pistol/)

It should be noted up front the P-09 is the first CZ we have reviewed, and we do so after numerous people kept bringing the pistol, and CZ Firearms in general, up in conversation.
Again and again we heard about the P-09’s accuracy and simplicity in controls and design. When we got our hands on one these claims were quickly confirmed.
The P-09 is hammer-fired, so it is Double Action/Single Action in operation. It is extremely accurate and its controls consist of a slide forward lever and a decocker. The pistol brings a whopping 19+1 rounds of 9mm ammunition capacity to the table. Yes, 20 rounds in total. This makes the P-09 a great choice for any of you who have decided the seven to eight round capacity of popular pocket guns is not quit enough to provide peace of mind.
And the P-09 comes with factory fitted night sights.
Moreover, the P-09 eats whatever ammo you feed it. We shot hundreds of rounds through  the P-09 and quickly saw it does runs smooth regardless of whether the magazine is loaded with full metal jacket, hollow point, +P, standard pressure, old and dirty, or a combination of all the above.
To be clear, the P-09 is a standard size, i.e., duty size, firearm. It is not compact in any sense of the word. But its size is just what the doctor ordered for some concealed carriers who like the peace of mind they get from being able to carry more rounds in a firearm with some degree of heft.
We carried out P-09 concealed in a CrossBreed IWB SuperTuck holster on some days and a CrossBreed OWB SnapSlide holster on others. The pistol holster combinations delivered all-day carry comfort.

        
          AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.
        
      
