
# The Latest: Spain says 3 more migrants found dead at sea

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:12:48+00:00**

Author: **EndPlay**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/the-latest-spain-says-3-more-migrants-found-dead-at-sea/1006011963?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

PARIS (AP) - The Latest on Europe's migrant crisis (all times local):
12:10 p.m.
Authorities in Spain's Canary Islands say they have found the bodies of three more migrants, bringing to eight the number drowned while trying to reach land in rough seas.
Spanish private news agency Europa Press said three bodies were found Thursday near Lanzarote, one of the seven Canary islands off northwest Africa. An air and sea rescue operation is continuing for at least three more migrants.
Authorities said that the migrant boat overturned close to Lanzarote early Wednesday. Four of its occupants were treated by emergency crews and five bodies were found in the initial search.
Most migrants trying to reach Spain nowadays cross the Mediterranean Sea from North Africa. The Atlantic route to the Canary Islands was once also popular.
___
10:35 a.m.
French police have carried out a large operation to dismantle makeshift migrant camps in northeast Paris.
Police Prefect Didier Lallement told reporters Thursday that "1,606 people were evacuated and the site is now freed of all its occupants."
Officials say almost 600 police officers were involved in clearing up the makeshift tents set up in exhaust-fumed clad areas underneath suburban highways.
Lallement said that a police presence in the areas would be maintained to stop the migrants from returning.
This highly-publicized operation, the biggest in over a year, comes amid a French government pledge to "take back control" of immigration.
President Emmanuel Macron has been accused of cynically trying to fend off the appeal of the far right before next year's municipal elections.
