
# Army 'should be sued' over the death of Scots soldier Joshua Hoole who died during training exercise

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Stewart, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/stephen-stewart/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/army-should-sued-over-death-20788878)

Army top brass must be hauled before the courts to face prosecution for the tragic death of a Scots soldier during a fitness test on a hot day, according to one of the UK’s top military law experts.
Senior solicitor Clare Stevens said “enough is enough” after an inquest into the death of Corporal Joshua Hoole, 26, found “very serious” planning failings surrounding the exercise on a hot day in July 2016.
She said the MoD was guilty of serious “corporate, organisation failings” and defence chiefs would only learn from their mistakes if they faced prosecution over the tragic death of Joshua.
 
The news comes after Joshua’s father Phillip Hoole said he plans to sue the Ministry of Defence. Similar failings were identified after an SAS selection march in 2013 which saw three die.
Clare Stevens, partner at JMW Solicitors, said: “Corporal Joshua Hoole died during a routine, annual army fitness test. There was no operational urgency for the test to take place that day or in those conditions. 
“It is scandalous to hear almost identical MoD failings occurred that day as with Cpl James Dunsby and Lance Corporals Craig Roberts and Edward Maher who died just three years earlier during SAS selection.
 
“It is now tragically clear that the MoD learned nothing from their deaths. Joshua’s inquest revealed that Commanders are still not aware of the MoD’s own guidance to prevent these injuries and that risk assessments are still treated as rubber stamping exercises.
“Enough is enough - there must now be repercussions for the MoD. It can no longer carry on blaming individuals when we repeatedly hear the same failings which are corporate, organisation failings.” 
Clare has significant experience in representing injured servicemen and women in a wide range of military claims. Some of her key cases include the Pilot A case which involved a £7.2 million settlement for a pilot with a severe traumatic brain injury.
She was also involved in the Castlemartin Inquest into the death of two servicemen who died following an explosion of a Challenger 2 tank during live firing training in June 2017.
She also represented families during the inquest into the death of three soldiers who died of heat exhaustion following SAS selection test in the Brecon Beacons in July 2013.
She added: “We can have no confidence in the MOD’s promise to learn lessons. The only way to bring about change is for the MOD to face prosecution.”
Earlier this month, an inquest into the death of Corporal Hoole found “very serious” planning failings surrounding the exercise on a hot day in July 2016.
 
Dad Phillip Hoole said after the inquest: “I intend to take civil action against the MoD for corporate manslaughter.”
Senior Birmingham coroner Louise Hunt said she had “grave concerns” about the Army’s “ability to learn from mistakes”. Cpl Hoole, of Ecclefechan, Dumfries and Galloway, died on a fitness test at Brecon, Powys.
In a narrative conclusion, Ms Hunt said the cause was a “combination of factors” including heat, but ruled out unlawful killing.
Last night, an Army spokesman said: “The death of Corporal Joshua Hoole was a tragedy and our thoughts remain with his family and friends. We shall carefully study and consider the recommendations which have come from the inquest and are grateful for the suggestions from Cpl Hoole’s family members on how heat illness can better be detected and managed.”
