
# Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Is Now The Best-Selling Fighting Game In History

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Gavin Lane**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/super_smash_bros_ultimate_is_now_the_best-selling_fighting_game_in_history)

With the release of Nintendo's latest financial results, Super Smash Bros. Ultimate was confirmed not only to be the best-selling entry in the fighting series, having sold 15.71 million units as of 30th September 2019, but it also climbed to number 2 on the Switch all-time best seller list, with only Mario Kart 8 Deluxe keeping it from the top spot.
If that feat wasn't impressive enough, these sales numbers also take the game past a genre milestone; Smash Bros. Ultimate is now the best-selling fighting game ever, taking over both the seminal Street Fighter II (in all its myriad guises) and the combined total of Super Smash Bros. for Wii U and 3DS which were standing in its way when it dethroned Super Smash Bros. Brawl as the best-selling individual fighting game release back in April.
Totting up Street Fighter II figures can cause headaches thanks to the huge number of versions that have appeared across arcade and home hardware since 1991. Indeed, if you counted the copies on over 5 million Super NES / Famicom Classic Mini consoles around the world, Street Fighter II would still hold the crown with over 20 million unit sales. That would be weird, though.
Smash Bros. Ultimate's performance is a remarkable feat. The game got off to a flying start and quickly became the fastest-selling entry in the series and set peak viewership records at Evo 2019, but to have become the best selling fighter ever after less than a year on sale is an accomplishment befitting the biggest video game crossover in history.
And there's still more to come, with Terry Bogard waiting in the wings and Challenger #5 yet to be revealed, plus more DLC fighters to follow. Mr Sakurai, your team and every single Smash Brother and Sister, we salute you! *Master Hand and Crazy Hand slow clap*

        "Yeah, whatever - Smash isn't even a fighting game anyway." Ooo, who said that? Let us know your thoughts and if you think the copies of a game included on a Mini Console should count towards its overall unit sales below.
      
[via dexerto.com]
