
# IND v BAN | Need to be sensible in making changes ahead of World Cup, says Vikram Rathour

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:25:06+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/ind-v-ban-need-to-be-sensible-in-making-changes-ahead-of-world-cup-says-vikram-rathour?utm_medium=rss)


        Batting coach Vikram Rathour believes that they need to be sensible in making changes to India’s current setup in the build-up to the T20 World Cup next year. As India take on Bangladesh in the first of three T20Is in Delhi, Rathour hopes that his batsmen can do well at setting a target.
      
The fact that India is excellent while chasing in limited-overs cricket is a well-established fact, but the same is not true while the Men in Blue bat first. And so, in the early days of his tenure as the batting coach, Rathour wants major improvements in the area. 
"We need to bat better when we bat first in T20I cricket. We chase pretty well. That's one area we as a team are looking to improve. You cannot be changing too much when a big tournament is coming. We need to know what's the core of our team and maintain that core and in between try out new few players. Hopefully, if and when they do well, that can help our team combination," Rathour told reporters at the Arun Jaitley Stadium, reported TOI.
Meanwhile, a lot has been said about the poor weather conditions in the national capital, which has been deteriorating ever since Diwali. Although Bangladeshi players were seen wearing masks while practising as the air quality index reached the severe category on Friday, Rathour believes the Indian team can cope under familiar conditions
"I have played all my life in north India. We are used to these conditions and we have played under these conditions. So, nothing special is being taken care of. Pollution is there but the game has been scheduled. We are here to play and hopefully win," he said.
On the back of a poor World Cup campaign, India’s opponents Bangladesh lost a series away to Sri Lanka, a Test match at home to Afghanistan, and has been riddled with controversies between players and the national board in the past week. They are without star players like Shakib Al Hasan — who was banned by the ICC on corruption charges — and Tamim Iqbal — for personal reasons. Still, Rathour expects a proper fight, at least in the three matches of the T20 series.
"Of course, it's an unfortunate incident (referring to Shakib) and you don't want things like that in cricket. Missing out on top players, of course, makes a difference to the team. But T20 is the only format where you don't players miss too much. But the amount of T20 cricket that is being played in Bangladesh, I am sure they have good players," Rathour said.
"In today's game and age, you expect all the international teams to compete well against you. So, we are well prepared and we are hoping and are sure that Bangladesh will give their best. But we are looking to do our best. We are taking this series as a preparation for next year's World Cup. We are looking at all the options available," he added.
