
# Plant-Based Diets, Population Control Among Climate Change Fixes Backed by 11,000 Scientists

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:24:05+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/environment/201911061077232425-plant-based-diets-population-control-among-climate-change-fixes-backed-by-11000-scientists/)


        Thousands of scientists from around the world have joined together to issue a global announcement saying that while the Earth is facing an urgent climate crisis, it could be alleviated if fewer people planned to procreate.
      
In an effort to carry out their moral obligation to “tell it like it is,” a total of 11,258 scientists from 153 countries issued a joint report on Tuesday which sounded the alarm on the Earth’s climate emergency and listed a number of methods by which those around the world can combat the growing epidemic.
The report proceeded to mince no words about the primary culprits for the problem.
“The climate crisis is closely linked to excessive consumption of the wealthy lifestyle,” the article noted. “The most affluent countries are mainly responsible for the historical [Greenhouse Gas (GHG)] emissions and generally have the greatest per capita emissions.”
As for across-the-board issues, the scientists claim the most “profoundly troubling signs from human activities” include a sustained increase in both human and livestock populations, the level of meat production per capita, global tree loss, the consumption of fossil fuels and the number of air passengers.
Though the report lays out the usual ways to combat climate change such as developing renewable, clean energy sources, reducing methane emissions and increasing efforts to protect the oceans and coral reefs, it also offers solutions that are not likely to go over well with most modern-day people: population control and plant-based diets.
According to a 2018 study conducted by the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy and NGO Grain, the five leading meat and dairy corporations contributed more GHGs annually than major oil and gas companies, including ExxonMobil, Shell and BP.
While letting go of meat is a difficult request, decreasing the rate in which the Earth’s population grows may be an even tougher task.
“Still increasing by roughly 80 million people per year, or more than 200,000 per day … the world population must be stabilized — and, ideally, gradually reduced — within a framework that ensures social integrity,” the scientists asserted.
Despite likely opposition to come against the latest report, the options laid out provide a different take than previous climate reports from groups such as the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change by offering concrete solutions to the world’s problems - which critics claimed climate activist Greta Thunberg’s efforts also lacked.
