
# Bayern Munich ‘target Jose Mourinho appointment’ as Arsenal deny meeting

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:16:57+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/bayern-munich-target-jose-mourinho-20807518)

Bayern Munich have reportedly identified Jose Mourinho as their top target to replace Niko Kovac.
The Croatian was dismissed on Sunday following talks with CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, president Uli Hoeness and sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic.
Pressure was building on Kovac as Saturday’s 5-1 thrashing at Eintracht Frankfurt continued the team’s underwhelming start to the season.
Mourinho has been out of work since leaving Manchester United last December.
He has been credited with an interest in succeeding Unai Emery at Arsenal but Bayern look set to make a play for his services, according to journalist Nicolo Schira.
Arsenal were forced to refute claims Mourinho 'dined' with Head of Football Raul Sanllehi amid growing speculation over Emery’s future.
Former Juventus boss Massimiliano Allegri and former Gooner Mikel Arteta are among the candidates to replace the Spaniard if Emirates Stadium bosses pull the trigger.
A move for Mourinho is unlikely because of his previous jibes at Arsene Wenger and the club.
Mourinho has never managed in Germany during his glittering career so the chance to sample life in the Bundesliga with Bayern could appeal.
He has also been linked with Borussia Dortmund, and ex-United midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger claims ‘the Special One’ is curious about German football.
“In any case, I can imagine Jose Mourinho in Germany, I remember well that he always asked me about Bayern and the Bundesliga,” Schweinsteiger told Bild am Sonntag.
"He has not worked in the Bundesliga, so I can well imagine that he would be tempted by a commitment in Germany.”
