
# JDT lifts Malaysia Cup for second time with 3-0 win over Kedah

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:28:52+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Malaymail](https://www.malaymail.com/news/sports/2019/11/02/jdt-lifts-malaysia-cup-for-second-time-with-3-0-win/1806319)

KUALA LUMPUR, Nov 2 — Johor Darul Ta’zim (JDT) consolidated their status as local football giants by doing the ‘double’ after defeating Kedah 3-0 to lift the 2019 Malaysia Cup at the Bukit Jalil National Stadium here tonight. 
Already crowned Super League champions in June, their sixth league title in consecutive years, the win was payback for their 2014 Malaysia Cup final loss to the same team, in the process clinching their second only Malaysia Cup title after their other win in 2017.
The win today was also JDT’s third trophy of the season, after having won the Charity Shield.
In the match watched by 82,420 fans, JDT were in a class of their own tonight, as their players began with guns blazing right from the first whistle that eventually led to two goals scored in the first half, before completing the dominance with a third in the second half.
Argentinian import Leandro Velazquez put the Southern Tigers ahead in the 27th minute after latching on to a beautiful Gonzalo Gabriel Cabrera pass before scoring past Kedah goalkeeper Mohd Ifwat Akmal Chek Kassim.
Seven minutes later, national forward Muhammad Safawi Rasid doubled JDT’s lead, through a free kick that rocked the underside of the bar before crossing the goal line, leaving Mohd Ifwat rooted.  
Kedah, known for their fighting spirit, however seemed unable to cope with JDT’s  excellent play tonight, even failing to create any dangerous chances for themselves.
Already almost tasting victory in their hands, JDT attacked relentlessly, and this led to Muhammad Syafiq Ahmad heading in their third goal in the 58th minute. As much as Kedah tried to stage a comeback, the game seemed wrapped and done, and the score remained 3-0 to JDT until the final whistle.  
The cup final tonight was graced by the presence of the Raja Permaisuri Agong Tunku Hajah Azizah Aminah Maimunah Iskandariah.
Also gracing the event were the Sultan of Kedah Al Aminul Karim Sultan Sallehuddin Ibni Almarhum Sultan Badlishah and the Sultanah of Kedah Sultanah Maliha Tengku Ariff, while Kedah Mentri Besar Datuk Seri Mukhriz Mahathir and Football Association of Malaysia (FAM) President Datuk Hamidin Mohd Amin were also in attendance. — Bernama
