
# UPSC 2019 CDSE (II) Written Exam Results: Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) declares written exam results for Combined Defence Services Examination (II) 2019 @ upsc.gov.in

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:32:02+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/india/upsc-2019-cdse-ii-written-exam-results-union-public-service-commission-upsc-declares-written-exam-results-for-combined-defence-services-examination-ii-2019-upsc-gov-in/271176/)

UPSC 2019 CDSE (II) Written Exam Results: The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has declared the written exam results for the Combined Defence Services Examination (CDSE) (II) 2019 on its official website upsc.gov.in.
The successful candidates will now have to face what’s known as the Service Selection Board (SSB) interview round. Candidates will join the Indian Military Academy for training as officers of the Indian armed forces after they’ve cleared the SSB interview and medical tests.
A note by the UPSC read, “The candidature of all the candidates, whose Roll Numbers are shown in the lists below, is provisional. In accordance with the conditions of the admission to the examination, they are required to submit the original certificates in support of age (Date of Birth), educational qualifications, NCC (C) (Army Wing/Senior Division Air Wing/Naval Wing) etc. claimed by them to IHQ of MoD (Army), Rtg ‘A’, CDSE Entry, West Block-III, R.K. Puram, New Delhi-110066 in case of IMA/SSC as their first choice and Naval HQ “DMPR” (OI & R Section), Room No. 204, ‘C’ Wing, Sena Bhawan, New Delhi-110011 in case of Navy as their first choice, and PO3(A)/Air Headquarters, ‘J’ Block, Room No. 17, Opp. Vayu Bhawan, Motilal Nehru Marg, New Delhi-110106 in case of Air Force first choice candidates by the following dates failing which their candidature will stand cancelled. The original Certificates are to be submitted not later than 01st July, 2020 for IMA & NA, not later than 13th May, 2020 for AFA and not later than 1st October, 2020 in case of SSC course only. The candidates must not send the original Certificates to the Union Public Service Commission.”

        Follow these steps to check your results
      

        About UPSC
      
Civil Servants for the East India Company used to be nominated by the Directorsof the Company and thereafter trained at Haileybury College in London and then sent toIndia. Following Lord Macaulay’s Report of the Select Committee of British Parliament,the concept of a merit based modern Civil Service in India was introduced in 1854. TheReport recommended that patronage based system of East India Company should bereplaced by a permanent Civil Service based on a merit based system with entrythrough competitive examinations. For this purpose, a Civil Service Commission wassetup in 1854 in London and competitive examinations were started in 1855. Initially,the examinations for Indian Civil Service were conducted only in London. Maximum agewas 23 years and minimum age was 18 years. The syllabus was designed such thatEuropean Classics had a predominant share of marks. All this made it difficult for Indiancandidates. Nevertheless, in 1864, the first Indian, Shri Satyendranath Tagore brotherof Shri Rabindaranath Tagore succeeded. Three years later 4 other Indians succeeded.Throughout the next 50 years, Indians petitioned for simultaneous examinations to beheld in India without success because the British Government did not want manyIndians to succeed and enter the ICS. It was only after the First World War and theMontagu Chelmsford reforms that this was agreed to. From 1922 onwards the IndianCivil Service Examination began to be held in India also, first in Allahabad and later inDelhi with the setting up of the Federal Public Service Commission. The Examination inLondon continued to be conducted by the Civil Service Commission.
Similarly, prior to independence superior police officers belonged to the Indian (Imperial)Police appointed by the Secretary of State by competitive examination. The first opencompetition for the service was held in England in June, 1893, and 10 top candidateswere appointed as Probationary Assistant Superintendents of Police. Entry into ImperialPolice was thrown open to Indians only after 1920 and the following year examinationsfor the service were conducted both in England and India. Indianisation of the policeservice continued to be very slow despite pronouncement and recommendations of theIslington Commission and the Lee Commission. Till 1931, Indians were appointedagainst 20% of the total posts of Superintendents of Police. However, because of nonavailability of the suitable European candidates, more Indians were appointed to theIndian Police from the year 1939 onwards.
Regarding Forest Service, British India Government started the Imperial ForestDepartment in 1864 and to organize the affairs of the Imperial Forest Department,Imperial Forest Service was constituted in 1867. From 1867 to 1885, the officersappointed to Imperial Forest Service were trained in France and Germany. Till 1905,they were trained at Coopers Hill, London. In 1920, it was decided that furtherrecruitment to the Imperial Forest Service would be made by direct recruitment inEngland and India and by promotion from the provincial service in India. Afterindependence, the Indian Forest Service was created in 1966 under All India ServiceAct 1951.
Regarding Central Civil Services, the Civil Services in British India were classified ascovenanted and uncovenanted services on the basis of the nature of work, pay-scalesand appointing authority. In 1887, the Aitchinson Commission recommended the reorganization of the services on a new pattern and divided the services into threegroups-Imperial, Provincial and Subordinate. The recruiting and controlling authority ofImperial services was the ‘Secretary of State’. Initially, mostly British candidates wererecruited for these services. The appointing and controlling authority for Provincialservices was the respective provincial government, which framed rules for theseservices with the approval of the Government of India. With the passing of the IndianAct 1919, the Imperial Services headed by the Secretary of State for India, were splitinto two-All India Services and Central Services. The central services were concernedwith matters under the direct control of the Central Government. Apart from the CentralSecretariat, the more important of these services were the Railway Services, the IndianPosts and Telegraph Service, and the Imperial Customs Service. To some of these, theSecretary of State used to make appointments, but in the great majority of cases theirmembers were appointed and controlled by the Government of India.
The origin of the Public Service Commission in India is found in the FirstDispatch of the Government of India on the Indian Constitutional Reforms on the 5thMarch, 1919 which referred to the need for setting up some permanent office chargedwith the regulation of service matters. This concept of a body intended to be chargedprimarily with the regulation of service matters, found a somewhat more practical shapein the Government of India Act, 1919. Section 96(C) of the Act provided for theestablishment in India of a Public Service Commission which should “discharge, inregard to recruitment and control of the Public Services in India, such functions as maybe assigned thereto by rules made by the Secretary of State in Council”.After passing of the Government of India Act, 1919, in spite of a prolongedcorrespondence among various levels on the functions and machinery of the body to beset up, no decision was taken on setting up of the body. The subject was then referredto the Royal Commission on the Superior Civil Services in India (also known as LeeCommission). The Lee Commission, in their report in the year 1924, recommended thatthe statutory Public Service Commission contemplated by the Government of India Act,1919 should be established without delay.
Subsequent to the provisions of Section 96(C) of the Government of India Act,1919 and the strong recommendations made by the Lee Commission in 1924 for theearly establishment of a Public Service Commission, it was on October 1, 1926 that thePublic Service Commission was set up in India for the first time. It consisted of fourMembers in addition to the Chairman. Sir Ross Barker, a member of the Home CivilService of the United Kingdom was the first Chairman of the Commission.The functions of the Public Service Commission were not laid down in theGovernment of India Act, 1919, but were regulated by the Public Service Commission(Functions) Rules, 1926 framed under sub-section (2) of Section 96(C) of theGovernment of India Act, 1919. Further, the Government of India Act, 1935 envisaged aPublic Service Commission for the Federation and a Provincial Public ServiceCommission for each Province or group of Provinces. Therefore, in terms of theprovisions of the Government of India Act, 1935 and with its coming into effect on 1stApril, 1937, the Public Service Commission became the Federal Public ServiceCommission.
With the inauguration of the Constitution of India in January 26, 1950, theFederal Public Service Commission came to be known as the Union Public ServiceCommission, and the Chairman and Members of the Federal Public ServiceCommission became Chairman and Members of the Union Public Service Commissionby virtue of Clause (1) of Article 378 of the Constitution.
