
# Brooklyn Beckham 'had secret fling with Kate Moss' younger sister'

Published at: **2019-11-03T02:08:21+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/brooklyn-beckham-had-secret-fling-20800391)

Brooklyn Beckham had a 'fling' with Kate Moss' younger sister, it has been claimed.
David and Victoria's eldest got 'very close' to Lottie before he began dating model Hana Cross this summer.
According to the Sun on Sunday , his famous parents are growing concerned about the number of girls he is being seen with.
The paper says they are worried he is becoming "the new Calum Best” - son of football legend George, who is known for going from girl-to-girl.
The 20-year-old is now said to be seeing rising star Natalie Ganzhorn, the Canadian 21-year-old who has caught his eye.
A friend told the Sun : “Brooklyn is becoming quite prolific in his wooing. He has obviously inherited his dad’s charm.
“He’s not naturally the most ­gregarious of boys, but his success rate with girls is quite astonishing.
“His pals egg him on but David and Victoria are less impressed.
“They’ve spoken to him about his behaviour and warned him he ­can’t get away with certain things now he’s in the public eye.
“They are genuinely concerned about his reputation and have ­compared some of his antics to those of Calum Best.
“Just like Brooklyn, he was papped ­stumbling out of clubs with a new girl on his arm, week in, week out.
“If Brooklyn is going to be taken seriously as a professional photographer then this sort of behaviour isn’t exactly helpful.
“Although his fling with Lottie happened before he got together with Hana, it’s yet another high-profile female association and one he could frankly do without.”
MirrorOnline have contacted his agent for comment,
Brooklyn's new love interest Natalie is best known for playing Heather in popular Canadian comedy series Make It Pop until 2016.
The stunning rising star also boasts a huge social media fanbase and regularly updates her followers with enviable snaps which reveal an insight to her glamorous LA lifestyle.
Natalie's 42K followers have also watched the actress star in TV series The Stanley Dynamic.
A spokeswoman for Brooklyn declined to comment to The Sun.
