
# Lewis Capaldi’s ex-girlfriend who inspired hit album unveiled as BGT hopeful

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:32:17+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/lewis-capaldis-ex-girlfriend-who-20801037)

Lewis Capaldi's ex-girlfriend, who inspired his love song Someone You Loved, has been unveiled as 22-year-old Paige Turley - who appeared on Britain's Got Talent at the age if 14.
The musician, 23, and pretty blonde are said to have met at college in Motherwell, around five years ago, and went on to date on and off for around a year.
Lewis fell "head-over-heels" for the music student and was left "gutted" when their relationship ended, according The Sun, and went on to use the heartbreak to pen his UK and US number one hit Someone You Loved.
A source shared: "She’s the girl. The song and his album is clearly inspired by love and he loved her — he really did.
“Paige dated Lewis while they were both at college from around 2014 to 2016. They were on and off and together just over a year. It’s funny that his songs now mean so much to so many. But the real story behind it is boy meets girl."
They also added that Paige, who wowed judges on BGT in 2012, "must be thrilled" to have been Lewis' muse.
Another told the publication how the "unlikely pair" bonded over their "passion for singing" and shared mutual respect for one another musically.
 
Mirror Online have contacted a representative for Lewis for comment.
It comes after Lewis admitted he has had a tough time finding love on the dating app tinder.
At the Q Awards, in October, when asked how Tinder was going, Lewis replied: "It's going.
"I'm swiping my fingers to the bone, and lo and behold, still a single man.
"A real indication of that is I brought my pal from school here, who works in recruitment. So there's no relationship."
Lewis partnered with Tinder after publicising his dating woes.
