
# China’s National Digital Currency is Anything but Decentralized says Ethereum Co-Founder

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:00:39+00:00**

Author: **Anthonia Isichei**

Original: [BTC Manager](https://btcmanager.com/chinas-national-digital-currency-ethereum-co-founder/)


        China’s national digital currency is in the works, which would monitor transactions and curb money laundering. However, according to a recent 
        
          interview
        
         with 
        
          CNBC
        
         on November 5, 2019, Ethereum co-founder, Joseph Lubin, believes that China’s central bank digital currency (CBDC) lacks a key component of blockchain technology, which is decentralization. 
      
According to an earlier report by BTCManager, China revealed its plans to launch a central bank digital currency (CBDC), a project led by the country’s central bank. The move by China seemed like a turnaround from its previous negative stance against bitcoin and cryptocurrency in general.
But Lubin, who is also the founder of ConsenSys opined China’s CBDC is just a digital currency and nothing more. 
Lubin added that the only way China’s national currency would adapt the full characteristics of distributed ledger technology (DLT) is if there are other stakeholders apart from the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) involved in the project. The Chinese government earlier stated that it was in no hurry to launch its CBDC.
The Ethereum co-founder when answering questions on whether the country’s CBDC would give the government and the PBoC more power and control stated that the Chinese government and the apex bank already considerable control. 
Instead, the country’s national virtual currency would just enable the government to maintain control. 
In Lubin’s words:
China is particularly known for its high level of censorship and monitoring — namely “the great firewall of China.” Decentralization does seem antithetical to the ethos espoused and maintained by authorities in Beijing.
Despite China’s previous history with cryptocurrency, it appears the country could be gradually embracing the nascent technology. According to a recent report, the country was looking to launch a Digital Currency Electronic Payment System (DCEP) before the end of 2019. 
Also, amid enlightening the public about DLT and cryptocurrency, the Chinese government passed the “Cryptographic Law” which would be implemented at the beginning of the year 2020.
