
# Nearly half of 2019 homicides were the result of domestic violence: police

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:45:43+00:00**

Author: **Meghan Potkins, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/nearly-half-of-2019-homicides-were-the-result-of-domestic-violence-police)

Nearly half of the homicides in Calgary this year were the result of domestic violence and police say that they receive an average of two calls every hour related to domestic conflict.
“While we have seen some of our rates of domestic violence drop slightly this year, the numbers are still staggering,” said Calgary police superintendent Cliff O’Brien. “Perhaps even more disturbing is when you consider (that) the vast majority of them have children involved.
“I learned early on that domestic violence is not a problem that law enforcement alone can solve. For sure we have a role to play, but unhealthy families do not become healthy with a pair of handcuffs.”
O’Brien made the comments Friday at the launch of family violence prevention month at city hall, an event that began with a proclamation from Mayor Naheed Nenshi and continued with moving presentations from survivors and community workers with the Calgary Domestic Violence Collective.
Psychologist and domestic-violence survivor Patrizia Giampaolo said difficulties do not end with the arrest of a violent partner. After surviving a beating so severe she had to be hospitalized for days, Giampaolo said that navigating the legal system and social supports was “discouraging and re-victimizing.”
“I was told verbatim, ‘I should be embarrassed to be in this position, given what I do for a living,’” Giampaolo said. “Survivors of family violence do not come from one mould and this is something that has been historically overlooked.”
Calgarians are urged this month to wear a purple ribbon to draw attention to the issue of family violence and to reach out to family or acquaintances who they believe might be struggling with violence or abuse at home.
“We never talk about it and if we don’t talk about it, we can’t move forward,” said Nenshi, who pointed out Alberta has among the highest rates of domestic violence in the country. “We’ve got more work to do. Far too many families are affected by this here and everywhere. It’s an issue that has generational impacts and cross-generational trauma. Once the cycle of family violence begins, it’s very difficult to break.”

        If you’re concerned about or suffering from family violence and the matter is not urgent, contact 211, a 24-hour line that coordinates government supports. The line is a joint initiative of the Distress Centre, the City of Calgary and Family & Community Support Services and the United Way. 
      
