
# El Tesoro Now Has an Extra Añejo Tequila

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Emily Price**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/emilyprice/2019/10/31/el-tesoro-now-has-an-extra-aejo-tequila/)

El Tesoro has a new extra añejo, a new permanent addition to the distillery’s lineup. The tequila, one of the oldest available, is aged in ex-bourbon barrels for four to five years, the oldest put into those barrels by Master Distiller Carlos Camarena’s late father, Don Felipe J. Camarena.“Some families pass along heirlooms, but my family passes on a passion for making exceptional tequila,” says third-generation El Tesoro Master Distiller Carlos Camarena.
“I always say that we have two faces at El Tesoro – one that looks to the past and respects the tequila-making traditions of my family, and one that looks toward tomorrow for ways to push the category forward. While most extra añejos are aged for three years, my father understood that we could create an exceptional Extra Anejo by resting it for more than four. Tasting this tequila today, I agree we made the right decision!”
El Tescoro’s first extra añejo - El Tesoro Paradiso was released in 1994 before the extra añejo designation even existed.
As for what it tastes like, El Tesoro describes the tequila as having an aroma of Coffee, butter, caramel, lots of semisweet and dark chocolate. Toast and spicy cinnamon. It says it tastes smooth and very well balanced with flavors of coffee and dark chocolate followed by dry fruits and roasted almonds. It finishes with a hint of pepper and complex flavors of oak.
El Tesoro’s Extra Añejo is available now for $99.99 for a 750ml bottle.
