
# IND v BAN | We did not know about the pollution levels earlier, says Bangladesh chief Nazmul Hasan

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:40:34+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/ind-v-ban-we-did-not-know-about-the-pollution-levels-earlier-says-bangladesh-chief-nazmul-hasan?utm_medium=rss)


        Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) president Nazmul Hasan said that they were not aware of the air pollution levels in Delhi until it was too late for a shift in the venue. Despite the concerns, Bangladesh went onto hand India a shock seven-wicket defeat in the first of three T20Is on Sunday. 
      
During the last week, especially in the days that followed Diwali, the air quality level across India’s capital city declined alarmingly. Although doubts over whether the first T20I would even be played at the Arun Jaitley Stadium were raised by the Bangladesh board, BCCI president Sourav Ganguly made it clear that the match would go ahead as planned. 
''To be honest it is not something like we have known about it earlier. When we came to know about it, at the last minute, we had contacted them. I was scared (based on) what I have seen on the internet (about the air quality levels in Delhi plunging into hazardous levels)," Nazmul told said before the first T20I, reported Cricbuzz.
Initial reports suggested that both teams may choose to shift the outdoor practice sessions or cancel them altogether. But the sessions went ahead and Bangladesh's cricketers were seen wearing face masks to protect themselves.
"I was not supposed to come here but made the decision suddenly. I was keeping in touch with the coach along with Mahmudullah and Mushfiqur, and they said that though there is a problem they will be able to manage it. At that point I thought unless I go I cannot understand the gravity of it,” Nazmul said.
''I could not believe my eyes, I saw smog inside the airport. It was not dew, it was smog. In the morning when I came out, the condition was even worse. From that point, I was saying how can we play? We are not seeing anything and that is the reality. From the very beginning, they [BCCI] were saying that they cannot change it. They said that we were too late to inform them about our concerns. I was disappointed about it," Nazmul added.
In the end, it all played out well for the visitors, who produced their first-ever T20I win over India, courtesy an unbeaten 60 from Mushfiqur Rahim. The second match of the series will be played in Rajkot on Thursday.
