
# Four Really Good Outfit Ideas for When You Don’t Know What to Wear to Work

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Diana Nguyen**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/fashion/personal-style/a29462082/fresh-outfit-ideas-to-wear-to-work/?utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_source=twitter)

Even if you work in a corporate office, what you wear to your 9-to-5 doesn’t have to be boring. Level up from a work-wardrobe rut by taking notes from someone who’s turned outfit inspo into a thriving career: style blogger Emily Luciano of Lovely Luciano.
The New York City-based content creator is known for her minimalist-chic vibe; on her feed, she creates outfits with busy women (and 415,000 Instagram followers) in mind, providing tips on how to elevate neutral pieces and wardrobe basics.
Here, four simple and stylish work outfits you can wear any day of the week—each with a few incredibly versatile key pieces from Bloomingdale’s, proving you don’t need a ton of stuff to build a boss-level wardrobe.

        1.
      
Every work wardrobe needs at least one great pair of pants. “I’ve always loved a wide-leg trouser, and these fit like a dream,” says Luciano. Here, she pairs them with a white statement jacket, and finishes off the look with classic gold jewelry and snakeskin shoes.

        
          Shop: 
        
        Lafayette 148 blazer, 
        Theory pants, 
        Schutz boots
      

        2.
      
No matter the day, there’s one wardrobe essential that helps Luciano feel more confident: an excellent suit. This head-to-toe plaid number pulls double duty—it’s sophisticated enough for the office, but also works for drinks or dinner. Cool, angular sunglasses and an on-trend crocodile shoulder bag keep the look from feeling stuffy.

        Shop: Lafayette 148 
        blazer and
         pants, Nico Giani handbag, Saint Laurent sunglasses, Sam Edelman heels
      

        3.
      
If you work in a creative field, allow your longest blazer to clock in overtime by doubling as a dress. “Everyone who knows me knows I absolutely love blazers,” says Luciano. Here, she completes the look with sleek, snakeskin booties—bare legs balance out the proportions of the oversized jacket. (Work in a more conservative environment? Leggings make the look more every-office appropriate.)

        Shop: Lafayette 148 blazer, Nico Giani handbag, Schutz boots
      

        4.
      
Monochrome suits are effortlessly chic and leave a lasting impression. If you don’t have a suit, pair a blazer or jacket with pants in the same shade. (“I love wearing whites for fall,” Luciano says.) For this look, she wore the same draped jacket from above with matching wide-leg pants, pointed-toe pumps, and tortoiseshell sunglasses.

        Shop: Lafayette 148 blazer and pants, 
        Sam Edelman heels
        , Nico Giani handbag, Celine sunglasses
      
Tie-Front BlazerLafayette 148 bloomingdales.comSHOP NOW
Wide-Leg PantsLafayette 148 bloomingdales.comSHOP NOW
Wide-Leg PantsTheory bloomingdales.comSHOP NOW
Plaid BlazerLafayette 148 bloomingdales.comSHOP NOW
Plaid PantsLafayette 148 bloomingdales.comSHOP NOW
Snake-Embossed BootsSchutz bloomingdales.comSHOP NOW
Pointed-Toe PumpsSam Edelman bloomingdales.comSHOP NOW
Croc-Embossed Shoulder BagNico Giani bloomingdales.comSHOP NOW
Cat Eye SunglassesSaint Laurent bloomingdales.comSHOP NOW
Cat Eye SunglassesCeline bloomingdales.comSHOP NOW
