
# Photos: Kamal Haasan celebrates 65th birthday with family in Tamil Nadu

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Mirror Online**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/entertainment/south-masala/photos-kamal-haasan-turns-65-celebrates-with-daughters-shruti-haasan-akshara-haasan-and-brother-charu-haasan-at-his-ancestral-home-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/71953174.cms)

Veteran actor and filmmaker Kamal Haasan on Thursday celebrated his 65th birthday with his entire family. He debuted as a child artiste with Kalathoor in 1960 and has been entertaining cine lovers for nearly six decades. On his 65th birthday, Haasan unveiled his father's statue at the ancestral home at Paramakudi in Ramanathapuram district. His daughters — Shruti and Akshara — shared adorable pictures and posts on social media wishing him. "Happiest birthday to such an amazing father, best friend. You have always pushed us to always be better and achieve better; you have been a true example of these qualities and much more. I hope this year brings you much more and all the success in whatever you choose. @ikamalhaasan" wrote Akshara along with a picture on social media.
Kamal Haasan with his daughters Shruti and Akshara
His elder daughter Shruti Haasan, who has made a place for herself in the South and Bollywood industry also wished her superstar dad on his 65th birthday. "Happy birthday Bapuji @ikamalhaasan such a special birthday marking 60 years of your work in cinema, we get to go back to Paramakudi we get to celebrate this life as well and most importantly we get to be a part of your very special life :) love you lots papa.” The actor was also accompanied by his elder brother Charu Haasan and other family members to his hometown for a special occasion. Here are some more pictures from the celebrations:
Kamal Haasan poses with his other family members
Kamal Haasan with his elder brother Charu Haasan
Kamal Haasan will be next seen in Indian 2 which is slated to hit theatres in 2021. Last year on February 21, he launched the political party Makkal Needhi Maiam.
