
# Bournemouth's Liverpool loanee Harry Wilson sends message to Man Utd fans

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:34:35+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/bournemouths-liverpool-loanee-harry-wilson-20792965)

Bournemouth winger Harry Wilson insists he is ready for any stick he might receive from Manchester United fans on Saturday.
The Red Devils visit the Vitality Stadium looking to secure back-to-back wins in the Premier League after the 3-1 triumph at Norwich last weekend.
And Wilson, who is on loan at Eddie Howe's side from United's arch-rivals Liverpool , is expecting a hostile reception from the travelling supporters, but claimed he is ready to use it as a motivator.
"It's part and parcel of football," Wales international Wilson told the Bournemouth Daily Echo .
“I’m definitely expecting a bit of stick, like I was when we played Everton at the beginning of the season.
“That comes with it – being on loan from Liverpool and United being their big rivals – it’s going to come my way.
“Whether it’s on social media or in the games, you are going to get that. You just can’t let it affect you on the pitch, hopefully I can do my job and maybe get a goal.”
Wilson, who has scored three times for The Cherries this season, added: "When you are getting stick it is always good.
“If I score, I’ll get my own back. Or if we win, that will feel good for me. It definitely drives you forward.”
Wilson came up against the Red Devils while on loan at Championship club Derby County last season.
The winger was part of the Rams side that beat the Premier League giants - managed by Jose Mourinho at the time - on the penalties in the Carabao Cup and made his mark with a stunning free-kick in the 2-2 draw.
Bournemouth enter Saturday's meeting level on points with Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's side but they are without a win in their last four league games, which have brought draws against West Ham , Norwich and Watford , and defeat at Arsenal .
When asked about Saturday's clash, Wilson continued. “Every game in the Premier League is tough but when you are playing a big team like Manchester United, who are full of quality players – they might not be in the best spell at the minute but we know they are going to be dangerous.
“We feel if we play well and find the form we showed at the beginning of the season, we are confident we can get a positive result.
“We will have to be at the top of our game.”
