
# Carol Vorderman fights back tears as she celebrates 20 years of Pride of Britain Awards

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:38:31+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/carol-vorderman-fights-back-tears-20820755)

Pride of Britain Awards 2019 host Carol Vorderman was left super emotional as the annual ceremony, celebrating acts of bravery and inspirational members of the public, came to an end for another year.
This year marked 20 years of the special award ceremony, with Carol recalling how the winners from over the years have helped her and inspired her.
As she prepared to welcome this year's group of winners back on to the stage, she wanted to thank everyone from viewers, nominees and those brave members of the public.
Carol quickly began to well up, fighting back tears clearly emotional over the ceremony she has hosted on ITV for two decades.
She then introduced singer Emeli Sande to the stage to perform.
Carol said: "Before we meet all of this year's winners for one last time, I want to say from the bottom of my heart what a complete privilege it has been for me over 20 years to meet every single one of our Pride of Britain heroes.
"You have all changed so many lives with all that you've done, including mine, and I just want to say thank you."
Carol then smiled as the audience applauded her, clearly welling up from the support and from her words.
She then moved on with the show before welcoming all the winners back to the stage.
Viewers were moved by the moment as it aired, taking to Twitter to share their own reactions.
One fan said: "Omg Carol getting all emotional," with a sad face emoji.
Others shared Carol's emotion, with a viewer commenting: "Pride of Britain always gets emotional."
Another said: "I cried all through it so far. Inspirational people who make a difference to the world."
A third tweeted: "Crying so much very brave and wonderful people out there xxx."
