
# Stephen Robinson and Jack Ross lead Hibs boss hunt as Paul Heckingbottom's brutal dismissal laid bare

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Burns, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/scott-burns/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/hibs-manager-search-latest-stephen-20811541)

Hibs could make a shock move for Motherwell boss Stephen Robinson after sacking Paul Heckingbottom.
Robinson – who has led Well to third place in the Premiership – has been recommended to the Easter Road board by Northern Ireland manager Michael O’Neill.
Former Sunderland and St Mirren gaffer Jack Ross is also on the radar as Robinson has been tipped to take over at Hearts ever since Craig Levein was axed last week.
But  Record Sport  understands Hibs chief Leann Dempster is considering hijacking that proposed move after calling time on Heckingbottom’s reign.
Ross could offer a more straightforward option and it’s believed his right-hand man James Fowler was at Hampden on Saturday to run the rule over Hibees as they crashed out of the Betfred Cup semi-finals with a 5-2 thrashing from Celtic .
Ross is currently out of work but Hibs would have to cough up around £200,000 to get Robinson.
Heckingbottom too will be looking for a hefty payout after having his deal terminated less than one year into the job.
It’s understood the Englishman was sacked over the phone yesterday afternoon after returning to England.
A Hibs statement read: “Paul Heckingbottom and his assistant coach Robbie Stockdale have been relieved of their duties.
“Head of player development Eddie May will take charge of the team on an interim basis – supported by Grant Murray and Steven Whittaker.”
Motherwell insisted no approaches had been made for Robinson, who has worked with ex-Hibee O’Neill at international level.
Alan Stubbs, who guided Hibs to their first Scottish Cup in 114 years, admitted he would return to the club. He said: “I’d be interested. Yeah.”
Former Easter Road skipper Kevin Thomson could also be a contender along with veteran Bundesliga-winning boss Felix Magath and one-time Hibees hitman Shefki Kuqi.
