
# First Minister Nicola Sturgeon Speaks At 20,000 Strong Independence Rally In Glasgow

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:14:40+00:00**

Author: **by Jason Dunn**

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/europe/201911021077201097-first-minister-nicola-sturgeon-speaks-at-20000-strong-independence-rally-in-glasgow---photos/)


        Nicola Sturgeon and the ruling Scottish National Party (SNP) are determined to deliver a new independence referendum in 2020 and plan to make an official request before the end of the year, against the backdrop of a snap general election and the new Brexit 31 January deadline.
      
A rally calling for a Scottish independence referendum in 2020 was held at George Square in central Glasgow on Saturday afternoon, seeing First Minister Nicola Sturgeon speak for the first time at such an event since 2014, the year when Scotland held its first referendum on independence.  
Sturgeon took to the stage to rapturous applause, and reaffirmed a statement she made on Friday that she would request an independence referendum from whoever is in Number 10 by Christmas.
​The First Minister hit out at Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, for refusing to hold a "proper debate" during the election. Referencing the proposed ITV debate between the two leaders on 19 November, which has recieved a backlash for excluding the leaders of the SNP and the Liberal Democrats.
An array of other pro-independence voices also attended: including National columnist Paul Kavanagh, the Scottish Greens co-leader Patrick Harvie, and Maggie Chapman, the convener of the Scottish Independence Convention.
Patrick Harvie directed his attack towards Tory frontbenchers Jacob Rees-Mogg and Boris Johnson specifically, calling them "expensively educated idiots" as well as declaring Scottish independence to be "inevitable."
The rally, which was organised by The National newspaper, saw a turnout of around 20,000 in the square, according to the organiser on stage.
A singular demand was made from the crowd, brandishing a sea of blue and yellow flags emblazoned with the 12 stars of the EU and the Scottish saltire, that Scotland be granted a second chance to vote on Scotland's independence from the UK in 2020.
