
# Scotland lock in Tests against new Rugby World Cup champions

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:13:50+00:00**

Author: **Tom Vinicombe**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/scotland-lock-in-tests-against-new-rugby-world-cup-champions)

The 2019 Test season may have ended on a dour note for Scotland, but 2020 is promising to be a big year for Gregor Townsend’s side.
Scotland this year crashed to only a second-ever World Cup pool exit after falling to Ireland and Japan during the group stages of the tournament.
Ireland entered the competition as the favourites to top Pool A but hosts Japan shocked the world by claiming a well-taken win against the men from the Emerald Isle. Many still expected Scotland to triumph over the Brave Blossoms but they were brushed aside by the darlings of world rugby, 28-21.
Couple that loss with their earlier defeat at the hands of Ireland, and Scotland were on there way home earlier than most expected.
Between the World Cup exit and a 5th place finish in the Six Nations, it’s been a poor year for Scottish rugby.

        Continue reading below…
      

        Click here to see the video
      
The Bravehearts have the chance to immediately bounce back, however, with a promising number of fixtures already on the calendar for 2020.
RugbyPass understands that Scotland will travel to South Africa in July next year to play a two-match series against the world champion Springboks.
Scotland last played in South Africa in 2014. In that one-off match in Port Elizabeth, Scotland were crushed 55-6.
With a first game in New Zealand since 2000 also already booked into the calendar for July, Scotland will face their toughest mid-year schedule of the modern era.
That’s not the only good news for Scotland, however.
The Scotland Rugby Union has confirmed that Japan will head to the UK next year for a rematch of the World Cup Pool A fixture that saw Scotland ejected from the tournament.
