
# Woman in 'Carrie' costume wrecks her car, freaks out first responders

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:47:00+00:00**

Author: **Jeremiah Rodriguez, CTVNews.ca Writer**

Original: [www.ctvnews.ca](https://www.ctvnews.ca/lifestyle/woman-in-carrie-costume-wrecks-her-car-freaks-out-first-responders-1.4666784)

TORONTO -- In a twist fit for Stephen King, 20-year-old Sidney Wolfe’s night ended in blood (albeit fake), a deer and a destroyed car.
The Marshall University student -- dressed in a bloody “Carrie” prom dress costume, in an allusion to the eponymous King novel -- totalled her car after a deer ran onto an Ohio interstate road early morning on Oct. 25.
“I am literally the Stephen King novel,” Wolfe laughed during a phone interview with CTVNews.ca.
“You can’t imagine going 55 mph [88 km/h] and a buck jumping out of nowhere -- it was scary,” she said. “At first, it was just shock and I was like, ‘Oh my gosh! What just happened?”
Wolfe had been dressed up because she'd just left a haunted house meant to promote three Halloween Kentucky theatre productions she was in.
She ironically wasn't playing Carrie in the R-rated, musical rendition. Wolfe was cast as secondary character Sue Snell but had volunteered to dress up as Carrie because the original actress was sick the night of the haunted house event.
After the event ended, Wolfe had been driving near South Point, Ohio when the buck jumped in front of her car and “totalled it.” The deer did not survive.
The crash had given her such an “adrenaline rush” she hadn’t even left the vehicle before another driver passed by and asked if she was OK.
"I remember him looking in and seeing me [in costume] and being afraid. He was already calling 911,” she laughed. “And he was just freaked out. And next thing I know -- I was surrounded by cop cars, ambulances and fire trucks.”

        SHE TOLD 911 'DON'T BE SCARED, I HAVE MAKEUP ON'
      
And while she only walked away with a slight bruise to her leg from hitting her steering wheel, she was worried first responders would think she was much worse off. When Wolfe eventually called 911 she warned the operator: “don’t be scared -- I have makeup on!”
Despite the irony of everything, she hadn’t thought to post about it on social media. But she did once a coworker said the tale was too hilarious to keep it to herself.
