
# 39 Essex lorry victims identified and families informed

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:46:06+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/39-essex-lorry-victims-identified-17217867)

The 39 people found dead in the back of a lorry in Essex have all been identified and their families told, Essex Police said.
In a statement, Essex Police said all of the victims found in the back of a lorry in Grays last month had been formally identified and their families informed.
HM Senior Coroner Caroline Beasley-Murray said: "May I take this opportunity to offer my deepest condolences to the victims' families."
The senior officer in charge of the enquiry, Assistant Chief Constable Tim Smith said: "This is an important step in the investigation and enables us to work with our Vietnamese Police colleagues to support the families of those victims.
"It is only right that we provide an opportunity for family members to take in the news confirming the death of their loved ones before releasing any further information. Our thoughts remain with the families and friends of those whose tragic journey ended on our shores."
Vietnamese police and officials yesterday visited officers in Essex as the investigation continues into the deaths of 39 people found in a refrigerated lorry.
Essex Police confirmed a delegation from Vietnam had been working closely with its officers on Monday and Tuesday.
The identities of the victims remain unconfirmed but investigators are set to present cases to the Identification Commission which is overseen by Senior Coroner for Essex Caroline Beasley-Murray.
A spokesperson for Essex Police said: "Our priority continues to be to the thorough and meticulous investigation into the criminality that resulted in the death of the victims, to preserve the dignity of those who have died and to support their friends and family."
Vietnam so far has arrested two people in Ha Tinh province and nine in Nghe An who face charges of organising people smuggling.
