
# Uthongathi Go Five Points Ahead, Nevhulamba Nabs Triple

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:17:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/gladafrica-championship-wrap-01-03-november-2019/666645)

During round ten of the GladAfrica Championship, table-topping Uthongathi FC continued their winning way by overpowering Jomo Cosmos 2-0, however, JDR Stars and Ajax Cape Town dropped vital points to Free State Stars and Cape Umoya United respectively.
Furthermore, Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila and University of Pretoria kept pressure on the front runners by each acquiring their fifteenth point.
First half strikes from Francis Baloyi and Menzi Ndwandwe were sufficient for the Cane Cutters to grab a five-point lead, while keeping Ezenkosi in the danger zone.
The Urban Warriors, who were at one stage 2-0 up thanks to Abednigo Mosiatlhaga and Grant Margeman, suddenly found themselves level after a good fight back from the Spirited Ones.
But there was still lots of drama to come in this pulsating encounter because after Eleazar Rodgers had netted a late penalty, Ajax fans thought it was all over before Masixole Nkewana made the score 3-3 in injury time.
The Hammer Boys also disappointed their fans after a 1-1 draw with Ea Lla Koto at the Giant Stadium, where Thabang Sebanyoni opened the score for the home side in the second minute, however, here again, the lead was not sustained.
Tshakhuma whipped relegation-threatened Royal Eagles 3-1 in KZN, thanks to a hat-trick from veteran forward, Thembisani Nevhulamba.
Khanyisa Mayo scored for Eagles, who’ve conceded seventeen goals and suffered five losses in nine matches.
In another eventful game, on-form AmaTuks hammered TS Sporting 4-2 with Kamohelo Mahlatsi (2), Athenkhosi Dlala and Nqubeko Dlamini getting their names on the scoresheet.
The match between Steenberg United and Real Kings ended goalless, while
Swallows FC pipped Richards Bay FC 1-0 in Gauteng as coach, Brandon Truter, showed his former club who was best.
Given Thibedi netted the winner, which moves the Birds into double figures.
