
# Buy Crompton Consumer; target of Rs 339: HDFC Securities

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Broker Research**

Original: [Moneycontrol](https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/stocks/buy-crompton-consumer-target-of-rs-339-hdfc-securities-4593661.html)


        HDFC Securities' research report on Crompton Consumer
      
Net revenues grew by 4% (8% in 2QFY19, 12% in 1QFY20) vs. exp of 11%. Revenue miss was attributed to weak show in lighting (-12% vs. 6% exp). ECD (73% revenue mix) continued its steady growth of 11% (15% in 2QFY19 and 16% in 1QFY20) vs. exp of 13%. ECD growth was driven by market share gains in fans (+70-80bps) and robust growth in appliances (~30% growth in last 3 quarters). In the last one year, Crompton has re-launched its appliances portfolio (geysers, pumps and air coolers) and invested in marketing to accelerate growth. Co’s focus now shifts to mixer grinders. We expect 13% growth in ECD over FY20-FY21E. Lighting performance ex-EESL was tad better at -3%. In LED bulbs, price erosion continues to be steep at 15% despite manufacturing costs stabilizing. Crompton’s focus is on driving volume growth and maintaining gross margins in lighting. Co is now re-investing in building their infrastructure to grow their B-B business. As a result, we don’t expect double digit EBIT margins in lighting in the near-term. GM expanded by 330bps (exp. 125bps) to 31.9% (-174bps 2QFY19) led by favorable base, benign commodity inflation and price hikes (2% in fans). Employee/other expenses were up by 20/26%. EBITDAM expanded by 10bps to 12% (exp 12.9%). ECD EBIT margins expanded by 31bps to 19.2% (exp 19%) led by premiumisation and oplev. Lighting EBIT margins declined by 110bps YoY to 5.2% (exp 8%). Lighting margins were under pressure owing to price erosion, higher A&P and investments in B-B business.

        Outlook
      
Crompton’s 2Q performance was weak. Dull show in lighting overshadows ECD performance. Crompton remains committed to improve their lighting biz via investments in B-B (inspired by Havells). We believe Crompton’s 2HFY20 performance will be similar to 1H and hence don’t expect a sharp recovery (unlike peers). We cut EPS by 3-5% over FY19-22E. We value the co at 35x on Sep-21 EPS, arriving at a TP of Rs 339. Maintain BUY.

        
          For all recommendations report, click here
        
      

        
          Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts/broking houses/rating agencies on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.
        
      

        Special Thursday Expiry on 10th 7th NovEarly Closure to The Great Diwali Discount. Last Chance to get Moneycontrol PRO for a year @ Rs. 289/- only Coupon code: DIWALI
        Read More
      
