
# Nine tiny hacks that will change your life

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Michele O&#39;Connor**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/health-fitness/nine-tiny-life-changes-change-20827331)

Whether we realise it or not, we make lots of tiny mistakes each and every day.
For example, did you know that 90 per cent of Brits follow bad practices before bed? Caffeine, booze and use of ­electronic devices are the main offenders, according to a survey by bed manufacturer Sealy.
And of the 70 per cent of UK adults who have used free public wi-fi, more than half have entered passwords and used online banking, leaving them at risk of being hacked.
But there is good news – tiny mistakes need just tiny changes to put them right. Here we explore how to correct these common errors...
It’s certainly tempting to put the alarm on snooze to grab an extra 10 minutes.
“But by dozing off again, we’re preparing our bodies for another sleep cycle, which is then quickly interrupted – causing us to feel fatigued for the rest of the day,” said Holly Housby of Sealy UK.
Electrical appliances kept plugged in when not in use are a major cause of wasted energy. Phone chargers can cost up to £80 a year in unused energy.
 
“Never swill mouthwash straight after brushing – it just removes the protective fluoride from the toothpaste,” said Dr Mark Buddha, of MyClinique Dental.
Every year, Brits throw away 720 million eggs and 80million pints of milk because of our reliance on best-before dates, according to research by Too Good to Go. Dairy brand Arla is planning to scrap use-by dates on milk, encouraging customers to sniff or taste it instead.
You can also try the egg test. A fresh egg will sink to the bottom of a bowl of cold water and lie on its side. Eggs that aren’t fresh will float.
 
Fake wi-fi hotspots allow cybercriminals to ­eavesdrop on users and steal ­passwords and bank details. Genuine public networks ask the user to agree to the terms and ­conditions of accessing the wi-fi. Always ensure the web address bar reads HTTPS instead of HTTP and check for a padlock. This means that the data is encrypted.
A study of 2000 office workers found they typically spend around two hours each day browsing their inbox – wasting 30 work days a year. Turn off notifications and batch-check your emails at allocated times.
Office workers only manage to take an average of 16 minutes each day for lunch, according to a recent study. Apart from the obvious benefits of taking a break from sitting, our brain needs time to refresh.
Exercise is good for us. But poor form can be damaging. The plank is an effective exercise for developing your core strength but doing it wrongly can hurt your back. Guidelines for common exercises can be found at nhs.uk/live-well/exercise/top-10-gym-exercises-done-incorrectly.
A recent study found that 60 per cent of Brits eat the same foods every day – with one in 10 eating the same cheese or ham sandwich for lunch.
But even if your diet is healthy, it’s not always good for your gut.
“The digestive system needs a wide range of food in order to absorb the wide variety of nutrients and minerals we need,” said Dr Anton Emmanuel, of University College Hospital London.
