
# Mane Opens Up On Salah Relationship

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:45:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/sadio-mane-opens-up-on-mohamed-salah-relationship/666791)

With many still remembering Sadio Mane's furious reaction after Mohamed Salah did not pass to him in a game against Burnley, the Senegalese has now opened up on their relationship, revealing they "sometimes have disagreements".

        
          Read: Pep Fires Dig At Liverpool's African Superstar
        
      
Mane was left furious during the Reds' match against Burnley earlier in the campaign, and erupted on the touchline following his substitution.
However, the duo have long settled the incident, and he says they have a great relationship, even though they do not always agree on things.
"He's a crazy goalscorer and an exceptional player who can do everything," Mane told France Football.
"We have sometimes had our disagreements, but it remains a great pleasure to play besides him because I have the feeling we speak the same type of football."
Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies! 
The 27-year-old also spoke about Jurgen Klopp's relationship with his players, saying the German tactician is like a father to him.
"His secret, I think, is to be the team's dad. Between us, everything clicked straight away," Mane added
"We all love him like a father and we fear him like one too.
"He takes up a lot of space in my life, and not just in football. He's great as a person.
"I trust him blindly, like most of the dressing room, I think."

        
          Read: Klopp Reacts To Pep's Mane Comments
        
      
The Liverpool winger has had a great start to the 2019/20 campaign, scoring 10 goals and assisting another five strikes in 15 appearances so far.
