
# Vincent Price and Boris Karloff both used some weird ingredients in their homemade guacamole recipes

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:05:45+00:00**

Author: **Thom Dunn**

Original: [Boing Boing](https://boingboing.net/2019/11/04/vincent-price-and-boris-karlof.html)

Boris Karloff and Vincent Price are perhaps the two most well-known horror movie actors in history. But that's not all they had in common—they were, apparently, both fans of homemade guacamole.
Karloff's recipe was originally published in a newspaper (I couldn't track the original source, but the earliest date the image appears online is from November 2013). I personally prefer a squeeze of lime, rather than lemon juice, in my guacamole, but otherwise this is pretty straight-forward—except for that little touch of sherry. I've never tried that myself, but I bet it's worth a shot.
(The newspaper article also refers to this as a "sauce," which is…not how I tend to think of my guac?)
It was much easier to trace the source for Vincent Price's recipe, which was published in a cookbook that he and his wife put out in 1965. He prefers his guac with coriander as well as…Worcestershire sauce and mayonnaise?
I can imagine a world where this is fine, in that overly-smooth-store-bought kind of way. I just personally prefer not to live in that world. Kat Kinsman at Extra Crispy tried to re-create both recipes, and said of Price's mayo-slop: "If I'd been served this blindfolded, I'd have assumed that someone was shoveling Big Mac Secret Sauce onto my tongue, and that's just horrifying when you've been promised guacamole."
