
# James Forrest the ultimate Celtic throwback as humble hero joins list of Hoops' greatest icons

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Michael Gannon, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/michael-gannon/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/james-forrest-ultimate-celtic-throwback-20785075)

These days players are all over Instagram if they take a half-decent throw-in.
But James Forrest is the Celtic 21st century icon who doesn’t even have a profile pic.
The Hoops winger is happy to be a humble hero and he doesn’t bother himself with the silly stuff like social media.
It’s a shame mind you. If he did he would have seen the astonishing lists of his career statistics doing the rounds that put him up alongside the Parkhead greats.
In a week where he penned a new Celtic deal the incredible numbers went viral.
Forrest now has the record number of assists for the club since the Millennium, with the 84 goals he’s set up surpassing stars such as Alan Thompson and Henrik Larsson.
The medal haul of 17 honours has him with only team-mate Scott Brown, Bobby Lennox, Billy McNeill, Jimmy Johnstone, Bobby Murdoch, Alec McNair and Jimmy McMenemy ahead of him in the all-time major silverware stakes.
If all those dizzying figures weren’t enough boss Neil Lennon set the internet ablaze with another one after his goalscoring performance in the 2-0 win against St Mirren on Wednesday.
The gaffer said Forrest was worth £25million following yet another impressive display.
The 28-year-old could have dipped online to see some of the love but it’s not this lad’s style.
Forrest said: “The boys joke about it but no, I don’t have Twitter or Instagram. My uncle sends me some of the good stuff but not the bad stuff!
“It does make you feel good. There are a few who aren’t on it but most people are these days. It’s just not for me.
“I keep myself away from that. I always want to think of the next game and then add to it.
“It’s great to hear. It’s good and I do get a buzz off it but you need to stay grounded. The staff are good at keeping the boys humble. Maybe once I finish I’ll look back at things like that and realise what I had.
“But for now I want to keep working hard and get as much as I can get.”
Forrest takes the £25m price tag in his stride like it’s a full-back in his slipstream and despite the avalanche of plaudits he still won’t rest on his laurels.
He added: “It’s nice to hear good things. The manager is good that way.
“There have been a few different managers over the years and so many different players in my position and good players too, so the competition for places has definitely helped me to keep going.
“Even though I’ve signed that deal I’m not going to think that’s me here for the next four years. I know I need to work hard at it and it’s so enjoyable to play in this team just now.”
Celtic fans are so used to Forrest doing the business on a weekly basis they’re almost guilty of taking him for granted. But finally the word is getting around and the songs are coming from the stands.
The Scotland star shrugged sheepishly again and said: “I have heard a couple of them and it was good to hear.
“I must be doing something right so I just want to keep it going.
“No, I’m not embarrassed because it’s good but I’m just not one for social media or being out there.
“When you play for a club like Celtic it’s worldwide and I think over the years I’ve never taken it for granted how big the club is.
“I’m delighted with the way things are going but I just want to make sure it continues.
“That’s the pressure of playing for Celtic and that’s what keeps the players and the staff on their toes.
“You know that if you don’t have a good game there’s a big squad to deal with it and someone to come in.”
All this fuss is making Parkhead’s quiet man blush, especially when he hears he is on track for another incredible record this season.
Forrest has scored in three League Cup finals in a row – to match a feat achieved by the legendary Bobby Lennox – with Hibs blocking the path in the semis this weekend and the chance to make it four.
He said: “We’ve had goodperformances and good results at Hampden so we’re going in there with a lot of confidence.
“If you win the three games last week then you don’t come away with three points against St Mirren it doesn’t mean as much so it’s good that you follow up a good result with another one.
“With Celtic there are so many big games. We have a semi-final on Saturday and then a Europa League game on Thursday and we know we can’t afford to slip up in the league either.
 
“That’s good and you want to be involved in the big games and contribute. Hopefully I can do that on Saturday.”
Forrest mentioned Europe but Lennon won’t let his squad’s thoughts wander to Rome.
The winger said: “I don’t think the manager will let us think about Lazio. Hibs is the big one for us now and we all know it is a great day if we go to Hampden for a final so that’s what we want to do.
“Everyone’s looking forward to it. We won’t write Hibs off because we’ve had tough games against them.
“We know it will be a hard game and we’re going to need to play at our best if we want to get to the Final.”
