
# Disaster resilience agency bill OK by Christmas?

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:09:43+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/05/disaster-resilience-agency-bill-ok-by-christmas/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
SENATE President Vicente Sotto III sees no more hitch in the awaited approval by Congress of a law creating a Department for Disaster Resilience (DDR) that President Duterte has certified as urgent.
“Mabilis naman siguro mapapasa ngayon yan, sapagkat matagal nang kailangan ito; hindi nabibigyan ng pansin masyado, sapagkat panaka-naka yung mga disaster na nakikita. Hindi rin naman nabibigyan ng focus,” [It’ll probably proceed faster this time, since that’s been needed a long time ago. It didn’t get much attention, since the disasters we witnessed were intermittent. It didn’t get much focus],” Sotto said on Monday.
The two chambers of Congress resumed sessions on Monday (November) after a monthlong break.
Though the Senate leader admitted it did not readily draw support from senators, the recent succession of calamities, capped by three strong earthquakes in Mindanao in the second half of October, turned the tide. “The way I see it, since calamities have struck in succession, and we all know the Philippines is disaster-prone, this bill will now be given attention. Even while we’re tackling the budget, there’s a strong possibility we will tackle this, too,” Sotto said in a mix of English and Filipino.
He noted that after he filed his version of the bill, several other senators filed  similar bills creating a disaster resilience department. “I was just the first to file, but seven of us have filed bills on this. It’s not surprising that I was first to file the bill, since I was also the one who filed the Calamity Fund bill in 1992,” Sotto recalled.
Asked if he expects the bill to take precedence over other bills seeking to create new government departments, Sotto replied: “Yes, this will have priority, because the other departments have issues about right-sizing. In their cases, we can have the right-sizing before the new agencies are set up, but in this [DDR] case, it can’t wait. A national disaster cannot wait.”
The Senate President added that passing the proposed law creating the DDR will “make it clear who is in charge” of government’s quick response in times of disaster, including relief operations.
Sotto noted that the bill splits responsibility “from the municipal, the mayor, the city mayor, up to the secretary of Disaster Resilience,” and there is a “clear unity of command, [as well as the] effective collaboration [that we want].”
This will, he added, “pinpoint responsibilities.” Under the law, “we are going to institutionalize the National Disaster Coordinating Council.”
Sotto sees “a very big chance” that the enabling legislation could be passed by Congress before lawmakers go on their Christmas recess, and signed by the President soon after.
Image Credits: Roy Domingo
