
# Aston Villa provide fresh Jack Grealish injury update ahead of Wolves showdown

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:43:39+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-jack-grealish-injury-17205126)

Aston Villa are hopeful that Jack Grealish will be fit to face Wolverhampton Wanderers this weekend.
The Villa skipper missed the 2-1 defeat to Liverpool with a calf injury he picked up in the closing stages against Manchester City 10 days ago.
He also sat out Villa’s victory against Wolves in the Carabao Cup after the visit to the Etihad – although Dean Smith confirmed he probably wouldn’t have been picked anyway.
But he’s likely to be involved in Sunday’s West Midlands showdown at Molineux having responded well to treatment. The 24-year-old will return to full training later this week to get back up to speed.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Smith told avfc.co.uk on Tuesday: “Jack’s calf was just not right at the weekend. Hopefully he will be training on Thursday at the latter part of the week.”
Grealish has been pushed into a more advanced position in his recent outings and he’s scored twice in his last three games as well as providing the assist for Matt Targett’s late winner against Brighton.
He could receive his first ever England call-up when the squad is announced later this week and speaking after the Liverpool match, Smith confirmed he has no concerns about his playmaker being selected.
 
“He's available for selection that's for sure. He'll be fit for the Wolves game, I'm sure he'll be back training. It's a dead calf and after training on Friday it was probably just a day too soon.
“He trained on Friday and was fine, he was due to start against Liverpool but he felt it tightened up on Saturday morning. He went for a run on the pitch and felt he wasn't 100 per cent.
“I said we needed to make sure he was 100 per cent because Liverpool are a top team. He held his hands up and said ‘I’m not’”.
