
# Mum jailed for stabbing daughter multiple times despite victim pleading with judge not to lock her up

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:49:23+00:00**

Author: **Connor Gordon**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/mum-jailed-stabbing-daughter-multiple-20815413)

A retired nurse who repeatedly knifed her daughter has been jailed - despite a plea by the victim not to lock her up.
Irene Forrester pounced on Linda Ann Forrester after stating to her: "I don't love you as much as I used to."
The attack happened at the 66 year-old's flat in Glasgow's Partick in January this year.
Her 38 year-old daughter was knifed four times leaving her with a collapsed lung and broken rib.
Forrester today returned to Glasgow Sheriff Court after she pled guilty to assaulting Linda Ann to her severe injury and danger of her life.
Her lawyer Neil Stewart told the hearing: “Her daughter doesn’t want her mother to receive a custodial sentence.”
But, Sheriff Alan MacKenzie instead jailed Forrester for 32 months.
He told the OAP: "I understand your life has been grim for a very long time.
“Not withstanding that you held down valuable employment all your working life.
“I recognise this offence was isolated and was fuelled by medication plus alcohol.
“The reality is you have pled guilty to the most serious charge.
"I consider the gravity of the offence that no disposal is appropriate other than a custodial sentence.”
 
Family of Forrester sobbed as she was lead handcuffed to the cells.
Her daughter was not present for sentencing.
The court earlier heard the pair had been at Forrester's home when she suddenly blurted out that she no longer had the same love for her daughter.
Linda Ann went to bed and said she did not want to speak to her mum.
But, prosecutor Lorri Pidgeon told the hearing: “Forrester returned a short time later with a kitchen knife.
“She told her daughter that she was going to put her out her misery and stabbed her four times.”
A wounded Linda Ann managed to escape the flat into her car before calling an ambulance. Her mum also dialled 999 stating: "I stabbed my daughter. I hope she is not dead. I'm very sorry."
 
"She will be dead. I am guilty. It is so bad."
The pensioner was later held by police, who found the knife at the flat.
She told officers: "I did it. I did not want to do it, but sometimes enough is enough."
Linda Ann suffered wounds to her back, hip and arms.
She was fortunately able to leave hospital days later.
Forrester's lawyer Mr Stewart today/yesterday said: “Nothing I’m going to say is an excuse to her actions.
“There is very much a background as she was on the receiving end from her ex-husband this is her daughter..
“This affected her for a number of years.”
The court heard also heard Linda Ann had sent an email to the prosecutors asking for her mother not be to locked up.
No further details were given.
