
# UCP replaces NDP's opioid commission; vows 'new approach' to mental health and addiction

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:59:20+00:00**

Author: **Sammy Hudes**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/politics/ucp-replaces-ndps-opioid-commission-vows-new-approach-to-mental-health-and-addiction)

A 23-member panel tasked with improving access to mental health and addictions services will take “a different direction” than an outgoing group established by the former NDP government which focused on harm reduction, according to Jason Luan, Associate Minister of Mental Health and Addictions.
The UCP-appointed Mental Health and Addictions Advisory Council is co-chaired by Pat Nixon, founder of the Mustard Seed, and Laureen MacNeil, executive director of the Canadian Mental Association’s Calgary chapter.
Luan unveiled the members of the group Monday, stating it will align with the government’s “recovery-oriented continuum of care” approach that focuses on finding improvements to prevention, intervention, treatment and recovery for mental health and addiction issues.
The council replaces the Minister’s Opioid Emergency Response Commission, established by the previous NDP government in May 2017 to tackle the opioid crisis through harm-reduction initiatives, treatment, prevention and other strategies. The group’s mandate was set to expire at the end of November.
Luan said the NDP “seemed to be excessively focused on a one-pillar approach” that focused simply on “managing the problem” through harm reduction.
“Our government and this council is committed to listening to voices of Albertan families, First Nations, business, people who are struggling and those who live in long-term recovery,” he said. “Our comprehensive approach will not only benefit people by saving lives and preventing them from suffering, but also create significant economic gain.”
Luan said addiction in Alberta costs $5.5 billion per year.
He said harm reduction would remain a component of the new panel’s approach, noting that five representatives of the previous group would remain on as ex-officio members.
But asked which new council members are harm-reduction advocates, Luan declined to answer.
The council will provide recommendations to the government on ways to improve access to a recovery-oriented system by next summer.
“Much work needs to be done to properly fund and organize our services into a safe, effective and easy-to-access system,” Luan said.
MacNeil said she hopes the group’s upcoming work will allow Albertans to “find the door that’s right for them at any point of their recovery journey.”
“My hope is that at the end of this process, that we have recommendations that everyone can see a solution or a support available for them and they will know the pathways that they can take, no different than if they had another chronic disease like diabetes or cancer,” she said.
Petra Schulz, who served on the outgoing panel, said she wasn’t surprised to find out the UCP wouldn’t be renewing its mandate.
“I’m very disappointed. This commission was constituted of people with a great level of expertise in public health, in addressing the overdose crisis,” said Schulz, whose 25-year-old son Danny died of a fentanyl overdose in 2014.
Schulz said the panel made recommendations that have helped save lives.
“We’re people with a broad range of expertise and I think we brought a lot to the table,” she said.
That was echoed by NDP mental health and addictions critic Heather Sweet, who said the opposition had concerns surrounding the appointment of “individuals who don’t have any harm-reduction experience.”
