
# Now we have proof: the government used your money to lie about poor people

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:00:14+00:00**

Author: **Aditya Chakrabortty**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/06/government-universal-credit-deception-asa-taxpayer-funded-features)


        After I revealed Whitehall plans to deceive the public on universal credit, an investigation began. Its conclusions are shocking
      
Early this summer, a national newspaper published a string of curious articles. Under the logo Universal Credit Uncovered, the features promised readers of the Metro the truth about this most notorious of all benefits. The series began with a giant advert wrapped around the cover of the paper, coupled with a four-page spread right in its centre, and continued week upon week for nine weeks. Launched by the Department for Work and Pensions, it was an unprecedented attempt to salvage the reputation of a policy that had been attacked by MPs on all sides, plunged families into starvation and homelessness, and driven councils dealing with the fallout to call for its abolition.
That suffering across the country was dismissed by the DWP as “negativity and scaremongering” in an internal memo I saw and reported on here weeks beforehand. Signed by three top officials, it described the campaign to the Metro’s 2.5 million daily readers as “very different to anything that we’ve done before”. The civil servants crowed over how readers might be deceived into treating the advertorials as independent reporting: “The features won’t look or feel like DWP or UC [universal credit] – you won’t see our branding … We want to grab the readers’ attention and make them wonder who has done this ‘UC uncovered’ investigation.”
They almost got away with it too – but, tipped off by the Guardian’s reporting, others began an extraordinary fightback. MPs fired questions at Amber Rudd, then the DWP’s secretary of state, while disability activists turned up at train stations, from Swindon to Stoke, and emptied their stands of Metros – with the support of the RMT union. A number were bulk-delivered to Rudd’s offices in Westminster. Other groups, including anti-poverty charities such as Z2K, formally complained to the Advertising Standards Authority that the government was misleading the public. The watchdog was blitzed with 44 complaints (the average for a case is between one and five), and has been investigating the claims since early June. This morning it publishes its findings – and they make quite the starter pistol for the general election.
Throughout its campaign, the DWP would summarise what it called “Myths” about universal credit and then give readers the “Facts”. The ASA looked at three of the claims – and found they weren’t facts at all. They were lies, told by the government to its own taxpayers.
In big letters, the DWP boasted that “people move into work faster on Universal Credit than they did on the old system”. After poring over the statistics, the ASA has found this claim “did not reflect the evidence … had not been substantiated and was therefore misleading”.
“If you need money,” readers were assured, “your Jobcentre will urgently pay you an advance.” In its ruling, the ASA takes the government to task for not making it clear that this is only a loan and that the vast majority of claimants will have to wait five weeks for their first UC payment.
Finally, the adverts’ claim that “your Jobcentre can pay rent directly to landlords” was again found to be misleading because it only applies to a small number of claimants. The ASA looks at one other charge, that the ads might not be identifiable as such, and while it worries about the “quite small” font that admits this is DWP marketing, only partially upholds it. In total, that’s three clear rulings against the DWP, plus one partially upheld.
It is no small thing for a watchdog to face down the government in such an uncompromising fashion. Yet at the end of its remarkable judgment, there is something even more startling. The DWP is told that in future it must have “adequate evidence to substantiate the claims in their advertising, to include significant conditions [where the claims don’t apply], and to present significant conditions clearly”. The regulator has been forced to advise the Conservative government to tell the truth.
