
# Original Observer photography

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:00:22+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/gallery/2019/nov/02/original-observer-photography)


        Rapper AJ Tracey, actor Rebecca Ferguson and anti-Brexit activists Led By Donkeys – the best photography commissioned by the Observer in October 2019
      
Painter Celia Paul, photographed at her studio in London. She spoke to the New Review about life after Lucian Freud.
Photograph: Antonio Olmos/The Observer
Musician Michael Kiwanuka, photographed at Espero Studios in Brick Lane, east London, for an interview in the New Review.
Photograph: Suki Dhanda/The Observer
England’s Maro Itoje is congratulated by Jonny May after defeating New Zealand in the Rugby World Cup semi-final in Yokohama, Japan.
Photograph: Tom Jenkins/The Observer
Saliha Mahmood Ahmed, winner of the best new cookbook at the OFM Awards 2019.
Photograph: Alex Lake/The Observer
Marcelino Sambé, principal dancer at the Royal Ballet, photographed at the Royal Opera House, London, for an interview in the New Review.
Photograph: Suki Dhanda/The Observer
Tommy Banks, chef at the Black Swan, Oldstead, was photographed for Observer Food Monthly. Banks was named local food hero at the OFM Awards 2019.
Photograph: Phil Fisk/The Observer
Veteran journalist John Humphrys photographed at his home in London. He talks to Miranda Sawyer here.
Photograph: Antonio Olmos/The Observer
Denise Phelan, photographed at her home in County Down, Northern Ireland, where she spoke to the Observer about the suffering the country’s abortion ban had caused her.
Photograph: Charles McQuillan/The Observer
Photographer William Wegman with his Weimaraners at his holiday home in upstate New York, from where he spoke to the Observer Magazine about his work photographing dogs.
Photograph: Benedict Evans/The Observer
Actor Rebecca Ferguson, photographed for an interview in the Observer Magazine.
Photograph: Gustavo Papaleo/The Observer
Ecology student and environmental campaigner Ella Mann at her home in Oxford. She spoke to the Observer about her letter to the Royal Shakespeare Company, which put a halt to their sponsorship deal with BP.
Photograph: Ben Gurr/The Observer
Rapper AJ Tracey, photographed for an interview in the New Review.
Photograph: Pål Hansen/The Observer
Documentary maker and television presenter Reggie Yates, photographed for an interview in the Observer Magazine.
Photograph: Alex Bramall/The Observer
Jamie-Leigh McCarthy and her 16-month-old daughter, Isla-May, photographed at her temporary accommodation in Harlow, Essex. Her plight, like that of many others, was highlighted in a special report into the nation’s housing crisis.
Photograph: Andy Hall/The Observer
Director Rose Glass, photographed for a feature in the New Review on up-and-coming film-makers.
Photograph: Suki Dhanda/The Observer
‘There is a political power in laughing at these people.’ Led By Donkeys, the anti-Brexit billboard activist group, photographed in London for an interview in the New Review.
Photograph: Phil Fisk/The Observer
Film director and screenwriter François Ozon, photographed in Paris for an interview in the New Review.
Photograph: Ed Alcock/M.Y.O.P./The Observer
Musician Richard Dawson, photographed in Newcastle upon Tyne for an interview in the New Review.
Photograph: Antonio Olmos/The Observer
Chef Jamie Oliver, winner of food personality of the year at the OFM Awards 2019.
Photograph: Perou/The Observer
The Observer’s fashion team brought us the best patterned jumpers for men.
Photograph: Heather Favell/The Observer
Dairy farmers Sophie and Jess Vaughan, photographed with their herd at Hardwicke Farm in Gloucestershire. Their firm, Jess’s Ladies Organic, won the best producer category at the OFM Awards 2019.
Photograph: Murdo MacLeod/The Observer
