
# Lewis Hamilton doesn't really know how to feel after sixth World Title

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:41:00+00:00**

Author: **Louis Shaw**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49423/lewis-hamilton-doesn-t-really-know-how-to-feel-after-sixth-world-title.html)


        Lewis Hamilton claimed his sixth World Championship at the US Grand Prix last weekend. The Mercedes driver is struggling to comprehend what that means and doesn't know what emotions he is feeling. 
      
"Honestly no. And I don't know why. I really don't know why," Hamilton said to Autosport when asked if he is able to comprehend his sixth world title. 

        "How am I supposed to feel, you know? I remember watching this sport when I was younger, waking up, come downstairs, my stepmum, Linda, she would make me a bacon sandwich and me and my dad would sit there together and watch the Grand Prix."
      
It is a dream come true for the Brit who used to race in karts and watch the Formula 1 on TV like the rest of us. 

        "It's odd to watch it and see someone in the TV set and now to be the person that's in the TV set, and be doing something like the great that I saw in Ayrton [Senna] and the great that I saw in Michael.
      

        "It's beyond surreal to think that this journey, my life journey, has brought me to this point in winning a sixth title.
      

        "But I don't really know how I'm supposed to feel right now."
      
Hamilton has cemented himself in the history books but is still hungry for more success. There is no telling how far he will go in the sport and many predict him to overtake the great Michael Schumacher's record in time. 
