
# What striker Billy Clarke needs to do to force his way into Plymouth Argyle's starting line-up

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:42:33+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/what-striker-billy-clarke-needs-3490518)

Striker Billy Clarke is working hard to try and catch up with the fitness of the rest of his Plymouth Argyle team-mates, according to manager Ryan Lowe.
The 31-year-old signed as a free agent for the Pilgrims a fortnight ago after being released by Bradford City at the end of last season.
Clarke spent a week training with Argyle before Lowe decided to take him on and he has already made four appearances.
His first start came in the 1-0 Leasing.com Trophy defeat by Chelsea Under-21s at Home Park on Tuesday.
Clarke played for 62 minutes before being replaced by Joel Grant.
Lowe said: “He’s not where we would like. He’s fit, and I didn’t think he would be as fit as he is, to be honest.
“When we got him in for a week that’s what we wanted to see.
“He was sharp but lacking that little bit of instinct, and Bill knows that. He’s working hard every day, including in the gym.
“When you have a player of his calibre and professionalism he wants to get fit and he will make sure he gets fit.
“But, ultimately, if you miss July, August, September and a lot of October it’s a long stint.
“You can be as fit as you want. You can run the roads, you can run the treadmills, you can get the personal trainers.
“You can do anything you want but football fitness is a total different game.”
Clarke is one of a number of strikers at Lowe’s disposal, with the others including Grant, Byron Moore, Ryan Taylor, Klaidi Lolos and the hopefully soon-to-be-fit Dom Telford.
Lowe added: “What I have got is I have got a good selection of players that I feel I can pick from.

        Keep an eye out on our social media pages for more Argyle news - we are on Twitter  @HeraldPAFC  and on Facebook Plymouth Live - Argyle  
      

        You can follow Argyle reporter Chris Errington on Twitter @ChrisErrington1 and on Facebook HeraldChris
      

        Plymouth Live has launched a WhatsApp service dedicated to keeping you up to date with the latest Argyle news.  Click here to join  and follow the instructions on your phone.
      

        Your number will not be shared with anyone else in the group. If you want more information on signing up, or if this link does not work  click here.
      

         
      
“So if Bill gets picked, he gets picked. If he doesn’t, he has to wait his turn until he gets picked.
“It’s the same with all the strikers, Bill is no different. The only downfall for him is that he’s just a little bit behind in match sharpness.
“It was nice to give him that run-out (against Chelsea) and he has been coming on the pitch (as a substitute) and doing well.
“At some stage he’s going to knock on my door and tell me he’s ready. I will be waiting for that but when he gets the chance it’s up to him to take it.”
