
# Family's £10k Disney World holiday hell after finding used condom and cockroaches in hotel room

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:41:29+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Wilkes**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/familys-10k-disney-world-holiday-20803989)

A family who worked out £10,000 on a dream Disney World holiday for their severely disabled boys were left disgusted after finding insects and a used condom in their hotel room.
Michael, 35, and Paul Atwal-Brice, 41, found dead cockroaches, a used condom, exposed wiring and dirt on every fixture at the £400-a-night Caribbean Beach Resort hotel in Florida.
The couple, and their two adopted twins Levi and Lucas, aged 13, were on a 'magical' trip to the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida, US.
Their twin boys are autistic , asthmatic, suffer from epilepsy and don't speak.
 
The family had called ahead and asked staff to clean and check the room for their arrival as their children will touch anything.
Michael and Paul, who hit the headlines in 2018 when they adopted two sets of twins - Levi and Lucas and toddlers Lance and Lotan, were terrified about the dangers the hotel room posed.
 
Michael told Mirror Online : "Straight away you could see the room was dirty then we saw a dead cockroach, which was quite big.
"There was lots of exposed wiring. Our boys have no sense of danger, so they could easily stick their fingers in that.
"There was so much crap and dust.
"It’s been a holiday from hell so far. Dead cockroaches and other bugs in  the room, broken lights with exposed wires and, worst of all, a used condom on the bed.
"The boys could have stood on the cockroach and could very easily have touched the condom if they dropped their bouncy ball down the side of the bed."
"This holiday was supposed to be like all their presents rolled into one."
With flights, the Disney Package which includes tickets to Walt Disney World and the £400-a-night hotel, in all the couple spent around £10,000.
The flight took 10 hours before a two hour ride on the Magical Express bus which takes holidaymakers to the resort. 
After all that, the family were distraught with what they found.
"That's what shocked us. We've not just booked any old hotel. We've purposefully booked this resort and spent a vast amount of money to make it all magical and special," said Michael.
"It's supposed to be magical, once in a lifetime, but that was like a one-star bedsit.
 
"We couldn't stay in there. The boys were upset and were screaming and distressed.
"It was a really bad start to the holiday."
When the couple complained to front desk at the Caribbean Beach, they were moved to another room.
But to make matters worse, the next room contained just as much dirt and dust - as well as centipedes moving around the place.
Michael said: "It was more like I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!
 
Michael said Disney staff initially refused to refund any more than one night's stay but, as things escalated, senior management got involved.
Now the family have been moved to Disney's lavish, bayside Grand Floridian Resort and Spa.
Michael and Paul have been foster parents to more than 20 children.
They appeared on the BBC programme Shop Well For Less as they tried to save up cash to go on the dream trip.
They admitted to presenters Alex Jones and Steph McGovern that they regularly spent thousands on making Christmas special for their foster children.
The couple also campaign for better access to cannabis-based medications on the NHS and have appeared on Good Morning Britain to discuss the topic.
Michael is an ambassador of charity  MY AFK - formerly known as Action For Kids - and is a speaker on disability.
Paul was awarded a British Citizenship Award for promoting diversity and inclusion and also mentors new LGBTQ foster carers, giving support and advice for families who may be looking after children with additional needs.
A Disney spokeswoman said: "While we believe the guest claims were exaggerated, we took several steps to enhance their vacation."
