
# Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's Man Utd are a pale imitation of the side that used to be feared

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:58:46+00:00**

Author: **Darren Lewis, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-lewis/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/ole-gunnar-solskjaers-man-utd-20805929)

Do not take it for granted that Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side will put this right at home to Brighton next weekend.
Or even when they host Partizan in the Europa League on Thursday. Manchester United, remember, are the shower that surrendered in front of their own fans against ­Crystal Palace in August.
The side unable to beat League One Rochdale over 90 minutes in the Carabao Cup in September, squeaking through on penalties.
This was only the third time in Bournemouth’s history that they have beaten United. But these days ­everyone wants a piece of them – and they are getting it.
The Reds are still falling. It is now 13 points from 11 matches – their lowest return at this stage of a league ­campaign for more than 40 years.
“If you want to get into the top four you need to win games like this,” said Solskjaer.
Top four? Seriously? Do yourself a favour and leave that to the big boys. The top two have more fight, ­Chelsea and Leicester are more consistent and Arsenal cannot defend but possess more firepower.
United also failed to beat Wolves and ­Southampton, and lost at West Ham and Newcastle.
In the past, early-season form like this could be ­dismissed as being unrepresentative of the big picture.
Not now. The team are drifting. Living on their reputation but more reminiscent of that nightspot once the hottest ticket in town, now dated and dilapidated.
Josh King’s outstanding winner gave the Cherries their first victory since September.
The goal was their first in nearly six hours of football. If you want to break a drought right now, wait until the Reds roll into town.
United turned up for work here on the South Coast for 10 ­minutes – the first five and the last. In between they ­struggled to get ­bodies into the box.
Anthony Martial, ­supposedly champing at the bit to improve a record that suggests United win more games with him starting, was ­anonymous.
They have no clean sheet in 11 away games and have lost all six fixtures on the road under Solskjaer in which they have fallen behind. True, they had gone unbeaten since the international break, holding ­Liverpool and then claiming three straight wins for the first time this season.
Defeat here as favourites, ­however, underlined the fact they have gone from being a side which for more than 20 years could never be written off, to one that can no longer be trusted.
Bournemouth fully deserved the three points, grafting their socks off to get their noses in front and to stay there. Steve Cook, on his 150th Premier League appearance, was the man of the match.
Callum Wilson is just so good at holding the ball up to bring others into play. King’s goal was sublime, Harry Wilson continues to go from strength to strength and Jefferson Lerma had Fred in his pocket.
A special word on Cook. As ­ambassadors for the club go, the 28-year-old centre-back is a shining light. He will remember his ­landmark appearance not just for the win but for the effortless way in which he combined with Nathan Ake to snuff out Marcus Rashford and Martial.
“They complement each other very well,” said boss Eddie Howe. “Cookie is very aggressive aerially, loves to defend and is very good on crosses.
“Nathan reads the game very well and has that composure you notice immediately.”
Asked whether Cook could be a shock shout for England, Howe added: “There was a spell two years ago when he was playing very well and would be a definite option for England. It never quite happened for him.
“But if he continues to perform like that he will have every chance. They’re aware of him for sure. ­Gareth leaves no stone unturned.”
