
# Heroin addict shoots dad dead with a crossbow in gruesome revenge attack

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:50:51+00:00**

Author: **Neil Docking, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/neil-docking/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/heroin-addict-shoots-dad-dead-20835574)

A heroin addict murdered a dad by shooting him with a crossbow in a gruesome revenge attack.
David Ball, 50, was today found guilty of the murder of Lee Atkins despite always claiming his crossbow "just went off".
But a court heard Ball had taken alcohol and drugs before he brawled with the "completely defenceless" victim on a street.
Liverpool Echo says Ball shot Mr Atkins, 38, and just left him to die.
And a jury found Ball guilty of murder following four hours and 38 minutes of deliberation, after a 14-day trial.
He was cleared of further charges of robbery and affray.
Judge Neil Flewitt, QC, will sentence Ball on Monday at Liverpool Crown Court.
 
During the murder trial, Ball told Richard Pratt, QC, prosecuting, to "shut up", and later called the lawyer a "f***ing weapon".
Asked "how did you show you were sorry?" he replied: "What do you want me to do? Buy him a box of Milk Tray to say I'm sorry?"
Mr Pratt said: "There's all sorts of ways you could show you were sorry, how about hanging around to see if the ambulance came?"
The murder happened in Bootle, Merseyside, on May 6, after Ball and Mr Atkins had taken Pregablin anti-anxiety tablets, Diazepam, and drank lager.
 
The defendant was storing his crossbow, which he said he only used for "shooting rats", in the loft at a pal's home.
But he gunned the dad-of-one in the stomach after the "mood deteriorated".
Mr Pratt said: "This was a gratuitous attack by the defendant on a completely defenceless man.
"Whatever had passed before, to take the time and effort to leave the scene to go Riley's loft, collect the crossbow and bring it back and then fire it at close range into the abdomen of a defenceless man, cannot begin to be justified."
Ball, whose criminal record dates back to 1982 when he was 12, has convictions for assault, thefts, burglary, robbery and drugs.
He insisted he didn't know if he moved the safety catch to the firing position and replied: "Do you want it in writing? I don't know."
Asked "are you saying that the crossbow went off accidentally?" Ball said "no, I'm not saying that," but later said: "It was just an accident."
He again claimed he didn't realise Mr Atkins was hurt, but then said Mr Riley accused him of shooting him, adding: "I thought I had hit him in the leg or something."
