
# Public perception has shifted massively on climate change in West Lothian

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:04:32+00:00**

Author: **John-Paul Clark, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/john-paul-clark/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/public-perception-shifted-massively-climate-20824271)

Public perception of climate change has shifted drastically in West Lothian in the past three years.
New data released by the Scottish Government shows that in 2015 only 31 per cent of people in West Lothian viewed climate change as an immediate and urgent problem but by 2018 the number had more than doubled to 68 per cent.
West Lothian residents were generally slower in taking the issue seriously in comparison to the rest of Scotland.
 
While only 31 per cent of people in the area viewed the issue as problematic in 2015, the national picture was completely different with 50 per cent of people considering it to be a big problem.
By 2018 this had changed and West Lothian had a slightly higher number of concerned citizens at 68 per cent, compared to the 65 per cent of Scottish people overall who were worried.
Climate change deniers also seem to be dissipating too.
In 2015 9 per cent of people in West Lothian were not convinced that climate change was actually happening but in 2018 the number had dropped to just five per cent.
 
It was revealed earlier this year that West Lothian is one of only a few areas in Scotland where carbon dioxide emissions are increasing. In the year between 2016 and 2017 emissions from freight and passenger transport rose by over three per cent and the Scottish Parliament’s Committee on Climate Change warned that if that trend continues then the UK is in danger of missing carbon-reduction targets.
John Bynorth from Environmental Protection Scotland, said: “The work of the East Central Scotland Vehicle Emissions Partnership has been crucial in raising awareness of the damage to health caused by motorists idling a car or van engine while they are stationary.
“With 65 per cent of car trips in Scotland for 3.1 miles or less, Williamston Primary School in Livingston also carried out a traffic monitoring survey outside the school as part of our Clean Air Day in June to raise awareness of the air quality impacts of the school run. The prospects of not doing anything on climate change are stark for humanity. West Lothian needs to continue to do its bit, and more, to help Scotland achieve its longer-term climate change targets.”
 
Friends of the Earth Scotland director Richard Dixon said: “The recent climate strike protests were the biggest environmental protest in Scottish history, showing that an increase in concern is being matched by an increase in people demanding action. People are recognising that by acting together we can push both the Scottish Government and our local authorities to do more to cut our use of fossil fuels.”
Thousands of people in Scotland protested against climate change on September 20 and there was a gathering of protesters at West Lothian Council’s headquarters.
West Lothian Council have stated that tackling climate change is one of the biggest challenges they have to address and they created a climate change strategy for 2015 to 2020 that provides a framework for the council’s actions aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and preparing for the unavoidable impacts of changing weather patterns.
They also plan to publish a climate change adaptation action plan before the end of the year and have a climate change and sustainability working group.
 
A council spokesperson said a cross party working group has also been established to look at the issue.
He continued: “West Lothian Council recently declared a climate emergency, recognising that we are in the midst of a global climate crisis, and the council is committed to continuously increasing our efforts to address this locally.
“We signed the Climate Change Declaration in 2007 and significant work has taken place to date to make West Lothian a more environmentally friendly and sustainable place. We acknowledge the role that local government has in tackling the global climate emergency.”
