
# Gift Guide 2019: Stocking Stuffers For Every Family Member

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Vivienne Decker**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/viviennedecker/2019/11/04/gift-guide-2019-stocking-stuffers-for-every-family-member/)

When coming to stocking stuffers for your whole family, it is always best to go with what inspires you. Whether you have a music lover, an art critic, a social media maven or an outdoorsy type in your home, this list has something special for every family member. The perfect stuffers are always something people wouldn’t buy for themselves, but are oh-so-happy to have.
This Best Made Company Traveller Set comes with a notepad, pen, passport case, a ‘Stay Sharp’-engraved flask and a survival kit. Perfect for an adventurous family member on the go.

        SHOP NOW
      
Ms. Pac-Man should have a place at every Christmas party. This hand-held retro arcade game is perfect for any game-lover in the family.

        SHOP NOW
      
This mini Jacquemus leather pouch holds only one object—a lipstick—and is destined to be a hit for those who are lead Insta-worthy lives. Tiny enough to fit into even the smallest Christmas-stocking, this gift is sure to enable endless selfies.

        SHOP NOW
      
Perfect for your family member who is avoiding single-use plastic bottles, and wants to flaunt their love of art at the same time. This Corkcicle Basquiat Canteen is a sure hit.

        SHOP NOW
      
These Roxanne Assoulin Alphabet Soup enamel bracelets are as happy and festive as they are chic. Customize a special bracelet to put in a stocking for a gift they will always cherish.

        SHOP NOW
      
This Muhle travel shaving set is unparalleled in quality, from a corrosion-resistant razor to vegan fibers, and a vegetable-tanned leather case. Perfect for grooming a worldly gentleman in your life.

        SHOP NOW
      
A pretty candle is always a safe gift for a relative you don’t know that well. This scented Fornasetti candle is the perfect gift as it’s something everyone would enjoy, but not want to buy for themselves.

        SHOP NOW
      
This super chic Bang & Olufsen Sand Stone Bluetooth Speaker is the perfect gift for anyone on the go. It has a rechargeable battery that lasts 24 hours, and an elegant leather strap.

        SHOP NOW
      
Your can't forget your four-legged family members during the holidays. Your favorite dog will look extra chic in a special “Ain’t too proud to beg” bandana.

        SHOP NOW
      
