
# Christmas train opens at Saltash's most famous grotto

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:57:29+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Gosling**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/special-features/christmas-train-opens-saltashs-most-3502346)

Families travel from far and wide every year to visit an extra-special Christmas grotto but this year they've made it bigger and better than ever before.
Tamar View Nurseries garden centre in Saltash has been providing a spectacular winter wonderland experience for more than 35 years and this year has introduced a fun-filled train journey experience to the mix.
A new attraction, the number 25 Steam Train, means children can hop aboard the carriage complete with smoke, noise and animation which makes them feel as if they've been transported all the way to the North Pole.
At the end of the exciting journey they get to visit the man himself, Father Christmas, on his sleigh and tell him all about the presents they hope to receive on the big day.
The garden centre is known for its large, ever-changing Christmas displays and animations, making it the perfect place to take the whole family this winter.
From the lighting department, to the many decorated trees, extravagant baubles, woodland animals, gonks and Christmas angels, they have really gone above and beyond this year.
Whether you are a Christmas traditionalist or prefer a modern take on decorations, there is definitely inspiration there for everyone.
The Saltash garden centre is a sight to behold during the festive season, attracting thousands of people to its snowy scene which includes animated reindeer, donkeys, polar bears and, of course, Father Christmas' grotto.
Christmas has taken over nearly all of the centre this year and has a completely different look to past festive seasons.
The static train with carriage full of sounds and animation makes passengers feel as if they are being transported through imaginary snowy scenes as they head to meet Father Christmas.
After your turn with the big man himself, you follow the path through a winter woodland into the magical Christmas Bauble Headquarters where all the best baubles and decorations have been lovingly placed into themed sections making it so easy for you to find the perfect decoration to remember your wonderful visit to Santa.
The elves have created some amazing trees to inspire you to go all out this Christmas time. They have not only used baubles but decorated one tree by stuffing it full of cute, fluffy owls. It is really a Christmas discovery trail to explore each scene closely - there is even a real robins nest in one display where a bird handmade a home last spring.
One of the biggest differences to the grotto this year is that it has been re-designed so that it can be viewed and enjoyed by everyone visiting the centre, whether Father Christmas is in residence or not.
And when Father Christmas is there, families can watch the children talk with him and share in the magic he creates.
Owners Mike And Pauline Hooper first started collecting their animated characters over 35 years ago and now have over 60 pieces - one of the most popular being the singing reindeer introduced two years ago.
The whole experience has been given a huge thumbs-up by children of all ages, not to mention mums and dads, so this year Tamar View has extended its grotto opening times by offering more tickets available than ever before.
Following its opening on Saturday, November 17, visitors will be greeted by Santa's singing reindeer as they approach the dazzling grotto, as well as more than 60 animated, moving characters which are bound to get you into the festive spirit.
Tamar View's very own Father Christmas brings joy to the world, and hands out more than 3,000 surprise gifts each year to children of all ages.
If you are bringing the kids or just a big kid yourself, the garden centre likes to include all and make Christmas that extra-special.
This year Santa has managed to persuade a professional photographer to join him too so you can also buy a wonderful keepsake to cherish.
Entry to the grotto is well-priced and costs £6.99 for children, while adults can go in free but booking is recommended to avoid disappointment. For a small extra cost there will also be a photographer on-hand who can turn pictures into baubles, key rings, fridge magnets and 6x4 photos to cherish forever.
There will also be a children’s quiz with a prize being given away each week and father Christmas himself will choose the winner of the quiz each week and will also choose the winner of the selfie competition on the run up to Christmas.
Manager Anthea Ede, said: “It's lovely seeing the children's reactions when they come through the front door, which is usually 'wow wow wow' at full volume. One year we had a little boy who was so excited he could hardly speak and just shook with excitement, running back and forth between his parents pointing at everything."
She added: "We love seeing all the reactions from the customers and receive many compliments on our intricate displays. Sometimes we have children come to us who are really are not sure whether they still believe in Father Christmas or not. Often parents come away so pleased after they have spoken to our Father Christmas, because of course we have the real one, and he has restored the magic of Christmas for another year.
"Ask the staff at Tamar View Nurseries about our Christmas and they will always say that what makes it so special is that 'our Christmas has personality but is very traditional with something for everyone and we are truly unique in our displays'."
Each and every year the garden centre has display of decorations quite like any other. With a huge selection of freshly cut Christmas trees to choose from, to handmade wreaths and baubles as well as lights of all colours and styles, you can easily kit out your whole house with just one trip.
Real Christmas trees will arrive at the garden centre at the end of November and guests can also buy fresh holly wreaths, planted houseplant arrangements for indoors and out made on site by the team.
The gift area has everything you could possibly need to treat your loved ones and then you can reward yourself by kicking back and relax in the restaurant.
This year the garden centre has also expanded the range of gifts available to purchase in store to ensure customers easily find something they and their loved one will love.
