
# Twitter's political advertising ban puts ball in Facebook's court

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:00:47+00:00**

Author: **Melissa Quinn**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/twitters-political-advertising-ban-puts-ball-in-facebooks-court)

Twitter’s decision this week to ban political ads from the platform has put all eyes on Menlo Park, California, the home of competitor Facebook.
Facebook has in recent weeks, been fending off attacks stemming from its decision not to fact-check ads run by politicians or political campaigns, and Twitter’s move, dropped just before Facebook would report its third-quarter earnings to investors, is likely to boost pressure on the social media company to change course.
“Twitter now provides an alternative case that advocates and reformers can potentially make against Facebook and look to to hold them accountable,” said Daniel Kreiss, a media and journalism professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. “I think you will see the ratcheting up of political pressure and potentially regulatory pressure on Facebook.”
The announcement from Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to no longer accept political ads came in a string of tweets, some of which were aimed at Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, though he wasn’t mentioned by name.
“It‘s not credible for us to say: ‘We’re working hard to stop people from gaming our systems to spread misleading info, buuut if someone pays us to target and force people to see their political ad…well...they can say whatever they want!’” Dorsey wrote, adding the issue of political advertising “isn’t about free expression,” a shot at Zuckerberg’s defense of his own company’s policy.
“This is about paying for reach,” the Twitter chief tweeted. “And paying to increase the reach of political speech has significant ramifications that today’s democratic infrastructure may not be prepared to handle.”
The ban on political ads from Twitter prompted cheers from former and current politicians, who collectively turned to Zuckerberg to ask what he was going to do next.
“This is the right thing to do for democracy in America and all over the world,” former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton tweeted. “What say you, @Facebook?”
