
# A damn tough balancing act

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:11:29+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/02/a-damn-tough-balancing-act/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
DAMNED if you do, damned if you don’t.  This is the dilemma faced by the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage Project (MWSS) in dealing with the chronic water supply shortage affecting the National Capital Region (NCR).
Despite the strong opposition, the Duterte administration is bent on implementing what it deems a decisive solution: the P12.2-billion New Centennial Water Source—Kaliwa Dam Project in Rizal and Quezon. It will, for one, end the reliance on just one fragile water source for millions in the NCR, the Angat dam.
The ECC for the Kaliwa project was recently granted by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), with Secretary Roy A. Cimatu promising to place the project under strict monitoring to ensure compliance of environmental safeguards.
A water reservoir is an environmentally critical project and the project site, which is in the heart of the Sierra Madre Mountain Range—an environmentally critical area—requires environmental permits, including an environmental compliance certificate, or ECC.
The issuance of the ECC came days after private water concessionaires Maynilad and Manila Water announced water service interruptions due to the drop in the water level of Angat and Ipo dams.
In March this year, water consumers in the East Zone had experienced one of the worst water supply shortage episodes and for which the Ayala-led Manila Water, for causing inconvenience to millions of its customers, was slapped with a P1.15-billion penalty by the MWSS.
On October 24, the MWSS posted on its website a public advisory that rotational water interruption will be implemented anew by the private water contractors Maynilad and Manila Water, triggering howls of protest and causing much anxiety among water consumers who are growing tired of waterless days despite the privatization of water service in 1997.
The issuance of an ECC by the DENR is the only remaining precondition to the loan effectiveness that is holding back the proponents from implementing the Kaliwa Dam Project.
The issuance of the ECC came ahead of completing the process for the conduct of public consultations with would-be affected communities, and the approval by the Indigenous Peoples (IPs) or the Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) as required by law, something which environmental and cause-oriented groups strongly condemned.
MWSS Administrator Emmanuel Salamat said with the issuance of ECC by the DENR, the next step is to wait for the signing of the loan effectivity of the project.
“We will wait for the loan effectivity to be signed before we proceed with the project.  There are conditions outlined in the ECC so hand in hand, we have to comply with the conditions set for by the DENR,” he said.
Before the MWSS can award the project for the contractor to proceed with the design, the loan effectivity would have to be signed first, he said.
He said the process will take around six more months to complete, after which, construction is expected to begin.
“We still have to agree with the design before construction.  There will be several processes.  While waiting for the loan effectivity to be signed, we will go with the process of securing the FPIC [Free, Prior and Informed Consent],” he said.
“We will have a continuing dialogue and engagement with the IP community and the local government before we can pursue the project,” he said.
According to Salamat, the Kaliwa Dam Project is part of the mid-term program of the MWSS, meant to address the demand requirements for the next 3 to 5 years, and possibly, extend up to 10 years.
“Hand in hand with that, we are developing the short-term water security programs which include Laguna Lake and Wawa Project,” he said.
Developing water sources like the Kaliwa Dam, he said, is an urgent requirement, to ensure water security for Metro Manila.  Otherwise, he said Metro Manila will face even worse water shortages in the future.
National Water Resources Board (NWRB) Executive Director Sevillo David agrees with Salamat that the construction of a new water source like the Kaliwa Dam is vital to prevent future water supply problems in Metro Manila.
Because of the limited capacity of its installed conveyor tunnel, Angat dam can only provide a maximum of 4,000 MLD.  Maynilad Water Services Inc., the concessionaire for West Zone, receives 2,400 MLD, while Manila Water Co. Inc., the concessionaire for the East Zone, receives 1,600 MLD.
“With the increasing population, the demand increases.  As part of water security, there is a need for a new water source for Metro Manila other than Angat Dam,” he said.
Also, he said there’s a need to develop an alternative water source to prevent disaster in case Angat is destroyed by a strong earthquake.
Currently, the NWRB’s approved total water allocation for Metro Manila is 40 cubic meters of water per second (CMS).
“Water at Angat is currently a little over 185 meters above sea level.  But we decided to manage the supply so that our supply will last throughout the summer season next year,” he said.
The 40 CMS water allocation for Metro Manila’s domestic users is below the normal allocation of 46 CMS.  During extremely hot weather as in the event of El Niño or a long season of drought, water allocation for Metro Manila is sometimes increased by the NWRB to 48 CMS to address the expected increase in demand for water, he said.
To be financed by China through its Official Development Assistance (ODA), the 600-MLD Kaliwa Dam Project is a medium-term water security program of the MWSS and the Duterte administration’s flagship water security project under its Build, Build, Build program.
According to David, construction of large dams ensures adequate water storage capacity during the rainy season so that there will be enough water during the dry season.
On the demand side of the equation, the MWSS is encouraging the public to harvest rain and conserve clean water by recycling and reusing water for non-essential uses.
“Supply is not unlimited.  Demand is increasing.  Our supply of water is exhausted and we expect the demand for water to increase.  We need to manage the demand, like responsible use of water,” he said.
The Kaliwa Dam will be implemented by the China Energy Engineering Corporation Limited (CEEC) with the help of local consultants.
The dam and all the structures will be constructed in Barangay Pagsangahan, General Nakar, Quezon, and Barangay Magsaysay, Infanta, Quezon.
It will be a 60-meter-high dam wall with an initial supply of 600 million liters per day.
The dam capacity is 57 cubic meters, with spillway, diversion tunnels and low-level outlet and reservoir.
A conveyance tunnel—with 4 m diameter x 27.7 km with a depth from the lowest peak of 70 m and depth from the highest peak of 500 m—will be constructed using boring machines and will pass through Tanay, Rizal.
Water treatment plants will be constructed in Antipolo City, Rizal, for Manila Water and in Teresa, Rizal, for Maynilad.
ENVIRONMENTALISTS are strongly opposing the construction of large dams because of their potential adverse impact on people and the environment.
In the case of the Kaliwa Dam, the MWSS has identified some of the direct impact areas in Tanay, Rizal, such as Barangay Daraitan, as fringes of the reservoir area will occupy a portion of Tinipak River; and Barangays Cuyambay, San Andres and Sampaloc, because the water conveyance facility will pass through them.
In Teresa, direct-impact areas include Sitio Pantay-Buhangin Dalig, which will also be affected by the construction of the conveyance tunnel.
In General Nakar, Quezon, Barangay Pagsangahan is a direct-impact area because of the construction of the dam and reservoir area, as well as diversion tunnel.  In Infanta, to be affected is Barangay Magsaysay, where the dam and reservoir area, as well as a spillway and intake area, will be constructed.
According to the MWSS, those affected by the project will receive proper compensation, such as payment to landowners and new houses for those whose houses will be hit by the construction.
It also promises that facilities will be built to the relocation area like roads, water supply, schools and health centers, while affected families will benefit from alternative livelihood programs.
Moreover, those who will be moved out of the project sites will receive allowances for transportation and food.
While the dam is under and after construction, MWSS also promised work both for residents and non-residents, plus the benefit of robust economic growth of the municipality due to additional income from trading and other business opportunities.
On top of these, MWSS also promised that water rates currently being charged by the different water districts in the affected areas will significantly go down.
OPPOSITION to the project, however, remains strong, with the Network Opposed to Kaliwa, Kanan and Laiban Dams (NOKKLD) questioning the issuance of the ECC by the DENR while the conduct of an FPIC is still ongoing.
The group is particularly concerned that the MWSS is misleading the communities, claiming the Laiban Dam will no longer be constructed although the New Centennial Water Source-Kaliwa Dam Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) explicitly stated that the Laiban Dam must be constructed to prevent the accumulation of sediments at the Kaliwa Dam’s reservoir. This, despite assurances by the MWSS during public hearings that the Laiban Dam will no longer be pursued as the project was already rejected by no less than the National Economic and Development Authority (Neda).
“The construction design of the NCWS-Kaliwa Dam also includes a 27.70-kilometer conveyance tunnel with a capacity of 2,400 million liters of water per day (MLD). This means that the 1,800 MLD Laiban Dam will follow after the completion of the 600-MLD Kaliwa Dam,” said Wilma Quirrez, secretary-general of Dumagat Sierra Madre and NOtoNCWS spokesperson.
For its part, the Center for Environmental Concerns (CEC) raised concern that the project will be constructed within a protected area, the Kaliwa Watershed Area.
“According to the Nipas Law, an area is declared protected due to its ‘biologically unique features to sustain human life and development,’” said April Porteria, CEC executive director and convener of NOtoNCWS (No to New Centennial Water Sources).
“Hence, submerging a considerable portion of the Kaliwa Watershed—113 hectares of forested lands—will have considerable environmental damage with adverse impact not only to communities in the identified direct impact areas of the project,” Porteria added.
According to the EIS, the area to be submerged has a huge amount of stored carbon and biomass.
Clearing and inundation of the Kaliwa watershed will release stored carbon and add to the global warming problem.
The groups believe there are other potential sources of water such as the 2,500-MLD Laguna Lake Project, which the MWSS in the NCWS-Kaliwa Dam Project EIS cited.
There is also the option to rehabilitate the Wawa Dam, which, according to its proponent, Violago, can yield a potential 1,500 MLD of water, according to Vito Hernandez of NOtoNCWS, convener of the group Agham Scientists for the People.
Another 4,163 MLD of potential alternative sources of water were also listed by the network.
There is also the still largely unimplemented Republic Act 6716 enacted in 1989, which mandates the construction of rainwater harvesting or rainwater collection facilities. The government also enacted the Green Building Code in 2015, which required new establishments, whether residential, commercial or industrial, to have rainwater harvesting facilities.
“Annually, the country receives about 720 billion liters of rain. This is equivalent to 720,000 MLD, which is more than enough to sustain our water needs, but much is lost to devastating floods,” said Filipino scientist and inventor of innovative rainwater harvesting system, Dr. Antonio Mateo. “If we could use rainwater even at 10-percent public water supply, we could secure our surface and groundwater sources,” added Mateo.
“We lose billions from losses in livelihood from the impact of floods aggravated by releases of excess water from large dams. Lives are also lost in these destructive floods. The costs to lives, properties and the environment beg the option for building additional large dams in our dwindling watershed areas. We challenge the government to consider the interests of the people first before corporate profits, which are behind the push for these large infrastructure projects,” said Quirrez of the Dumagat Sierra Madre.
Image Credits: Bernard Testa
