
# England rugby players arrive home from Japan after World Cup final heartache

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:53:22+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/england-rugby-players-arrive-home-20810688?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

England's players returned home from their Rugby World Cup exploits in Japan just two days after their final heartache.
Eddie Jones's men were beaten 32-12 by South Africa in Saturday's showpiece event in Yokohama after a thrilling tournament had put them on the brink of becoming world champions.
Fans were on hand at Heathrow airport on Monday to offer their condolences with a huge round of applause and cheers for their efforts, despite the disappointing defeat.
Captain Owen Farrell was among the players who looked in sombre mood after landing back in Blighty on the BA008 flight from Tokyo.
Their plane had arrived at terminal five earlier than planned, landing 18 minutes ahead of schedule, but the players did not emerge until almost an hour later.
 
Holiday-makers had gathered at the arrivals lounge in anticipation, along with British Airways staff and the waiting media, in order to show their appreciation.
Ellis Genge was first through the gates, followed by the rest of his teammates, with Maro Itoje, George Ford, Ben Youngs and Dan Cole close behind.
Itoje has spoke of the disappointment at losing the final, calling it "one of the most painful experiences I've had in life," but was able to crack a smile as he passed the supporters.
Each player had a trolley piled high with luggage from their extended trip, while prop Joe Marler had a large pillow draped round his shoulders.
Kyle Sinckler, who had his final cruelly cut short with concussion in the opening minutes, was also in tow, along with George Kruis, as Anthony Watson opted to keep his hood up.
Farrell's appearance drew perhaps the largest cheer, as did that for boss Jones, who had masterminded England's route to the final.
 
The RFU have already signalled their intent to keep Jones on for the next World Cup in four years time, although his current contract only runs until 2021.
England had been favourites going into Saturday's showdown, after recording their first ever win over New Zealand at a World Cup.
Jones admitted after the defeat that he had no idea why his side were overturned by a dominant South Africa side.
“South Africa were too good for us and I don’t know why,” he said. “When you're the winning coach you've got all the answers. I've got no answers.
He added of his future: “I'll definitely be there in the Six Nations, I'm contracted for another two years so I'll be in my work tomorrow, ready to go.
“This team is finished now. There will be a new team made – which we’ll make for the Six Nations and which will be the basis of going to the next World Cup.”
