
# Hollyoaks star confirms 'dark' Christmas scenes for James Nightingale and teases exit

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:22:31+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/hollyoaks-star-confirms-dark-christmas-20826710)

Hollyoaks favourite James Nightingale, played by actor Gregory Finnegan, has struggled in recent episodes following the murder of his ex Harry Thompson.
He's currently embroiled in a shocking new storyline that has seen Mercedes McQueen shot and left for dead, with James one of seven suspects.
James wanted Mercedes dead after learning she had framed Harry for the recent car accident that led to his attempts to flee the village - only for him to be murdered by serial killer Breda McQueen.
While his killer is yet to be exposed, Mercedes herself came under suspicion due to her threatening Harry's life if he went to the police about her being the real driver in the accident.
But it seems the dark scenes will continue right through until Christmas, as James struggles to cope without Harry.
Speaking to Mirror Online, Greg confirmed "dark" scenes would play out over the festive period, and that his character might even make a brief exit from the village as he continues to fall apart.
He explained: "Romeo and Juliet are really looking forward to a proper family Christmas but it's not gonna go quite to plan.
"Certainly for James, he gets embroiled in some pretty dark goings on and makes a bit of an exit.
"It's not gonna be the family Christmas they're hoping for but it never is - hopefully there's some cheer on the way."
While not going into details about the scenes, he did reveal son Romeo and his sister Juliet would be left pretty gutted as Christmas fails to go to plan.
James' mother Marnie will no doubt have to pick up the pieces, as James storms out.
Greg also teased whether James could be the person to bring down Harry's real killer Breda, with her also being behind the murder of his dad Mac earlier this year - something James won't be too bothered about given their history.
He said: "I don't know how Breda, if she meets her end, I don't know if I'm involved.
"I certainly hope so but the queue is very long at this point. If he found out that she killed Mac he'd be high-fiving her!"

        Hollyoaks airs weeknights at 6:30pm on Channel 4, with the next episode at 7pm on E4.
      
