
# Blizzard Finally Reveals Diablo 4

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:30:51+00:00**

Author: **Alex Walker**

Original: [Kotaku Australia](https://www.kotaku.com.au/2019/11/diablo-4-pc-ps4-xbox-one-blizzcon-2019/)

After years of redevelopment and multiple iterations on the future of one of Blizzard's tentpole franchises, Blizzard finally unveiled Diablo 4 at their annual convention, Blizzcon.
Diablo 4 has been anticipated for a full year, after Blizzard opted to close last year's keynote with Diablo Immortal. The company immediately set about laying the groundwork for Diablo 4 through various hints and coded replies in interviews, and in the last fortnight the leaks gave the strongest possible indication that Diablo was afoot. Signs in and outside the Anaheim Convention Centre also noted that the keynote would have mature content not advisable for younger viewers, the first time in recent years such an advisory has been posted.
Lilith was officially confirmed as the antagonist for Diablo 4, having appeared earlier in the series as a boss in Diablo 2. It wasn't the only callback to classic Diablo, with the game's aesthetic and artstyle going back to the game's gothic roots, as indicated by comments from Diablo 4 art director John Mueller in an official art book.
The game was officially shown off with a Blizzard-style intro cinematic, with a small party of raiders running away from a horde of undead. The cinematic briefly cut out mid-stream, however, showing an overlay while the sound continued to play. But the action reverted back after about half a minute.
