
# Selena Gomez, Megan Rapinoe, Janelle Monáe, and More Partner Up With Michelle Obama to Increase Voter Participation

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Madison Feller**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/career-politics/a29723157/michelle-obama-when-we-all-vote-selena-gomez-2020/?utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_medium=social-media&utm_source=twitter)

Though it might feel like the 2020 election will never end, causing us to be stuck in an endless cycle of debates and polls, the truth is we're officially a year out from the general election, and Michelle Obama wants you to start thinking about voting.
In a new video from When We All Vote, the national nonpartisan organization she launched in 2018 in order to increase voter participation in all elections, the former First Lady enlisted some celebrity friends to explain why its so important:
"[Last year] millions of new voters made their voices heard for the first time," Obama says in the video. "Now, the stakes are even higher." So for 2020, Obama will be expanding her "Voting Squad" and partnering with new co-chairs, including Selena Gomez, Megan Rapinoe, Tracee Ellis Ross, Kerry Washington, and Shonda Rhimes to get the word out. (She'll also be joined by past co-chairs like Janelle Monáe and Lin-Manuel Miranda.) The group wants Americans to organize their own voting squads i.e. volunteer groups that work to get their friends, family, and communities registered and ready to vote.
"Voting is our duty as citizens," Megan Rapinoe told ELLE.com. "I want my voice to be heard, I want to be an active participant, and I want to have a say in the country I live in. I believe we can ALL have a better life, but in order to do so, we need people in office who will fight for us ALL."
In the lead up to the 2018 midterm elections, When We All Vote organized over 2,500 local voter registration events across the nation and texted nearly four million voters the resources needed to register and vote, according to a statement from the organization. In 2020, When We All Vote plans to build on its 2018 success with its Voting Squad program.
ELLE is also partnering with When We All Vote for the 2020 election. Find out more about the organization at whenweallvote.org.
