
# The Pixel 4 Has Really Basic Problems, and Google Seriously Needs to Try Harder

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:00:39+00:00**

Author: **Tom Pritchard**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/pixel-4-stupid-issues-google-not-trying-hard-enough/)

Every phone maker has their issues, with certain things that are always problematic about their stuff. For Apple it's the fact that they're so expensive, and have different-shaped cables to every other phone. Samsung flagships are also almost as expensive. OnePlus stubbornly refuses to offer wireless charging and more concrete water resistance ratings. I could go on all day really, but eventually I'd get to Google. Google's Pixel range always seems to be missing important features - and it's the kind of thing we can't really excuse from a company as rich and powerful as Google. Especially not when it's trying to make premium phones.
Pixel phones are generally really good as a whole, but there's always something that's off about them. The Pixel 3 range only had 4GB of RAM, for instance, at a time when damn-near all premium Android phones were starting to think 6GB wasn't enough. Plus the 3 XL had that great big honking notch that put other notches to shame. The Pixel 2, among other things, had a myriad of display issues that plagued the device for ages, and the original Pixel had a myriad of problems - the most obvious of which was that it was a significant price jump from the more-affordable Nexus range.
The Pixel 4 continues that tradition, and it's about time that Google cut the bullshit and actually put some effort into making a premium phone worth of being called premium. Because wrapping up your phone in a glossy chassis and throwing in a bunch of software features on the camera just isn't cutting it anymore.
Google can't seem to get the top of its phones right. Last year the Pixel 3 XL had a huge notch, that made even the most unsightly of notches look petite in comparison. The 3 and 3XL both had whopping big chins too, contrary to the trend of all-screen displays that we've seen elsewhere.
Then this year it did away with the notch, but left a really quite noticeable thick black bar at the top of both phone. A forehead, if you will, that just makes the phone look 'off'. It's asymmetrical, and frankly a bit unsettling.
I think I preferred the Pixel 3 XL's notch, for all the design issues it had. At least then the system icons had their own little space and didn't use up more of the phone's display than necessary.
There's probably a good reason why the Pixel 4 went for a bar and not a notch, which is all the extra tech. Not only does it include the usual things like the speaker, ambient light sensors, and the front-facing camera, it also has room for the face-unlock components and the Soli radar chip (though this was so small iFixit had a lot of trouble finding it).
The facial recognition uses a dot sensor, much like Apple, and there needs to be room for that, and that's why there's a forehead and not a fancy whole-screen display. Sadly, Google probably could have done a much better job of making it look nice. Then again, this situation is a no-win situation. People don't like notches, foreheads, or hole-punch cameras, and you can't squeeze all this in without at least one of those options. Not unless you opt into some sort of sliding mechanism like the Oppo Find X
This is a nitpick really, but considering one of Android's advantages over iOS is the option to customise the homescreen as you see fit, not being able to remove certain things is a huge let down. The Pixel Launcher comes with a bunch of stuff on the homescreen, but two things stay there and cannot be resized or removed entirely - a weather/clock widget, and the Google search bar. If you like these things the way they are then that's great. But if you don't, they stick out as a constant reminder that you can't get rid of them without installing a brand new launcher.
Obviously being able to swap for a new launcher is still in line with that whole 'customisable Android' thing I was talking about, and gives Pixel owners an option they wouldn't have if they bought an iPhone. That said, it's an extreme measure for a problem that shouldn't be there in the first place. And the fact that the weather widget is broken and keeps displaying the temperature units in Farenheight (despite the setting being set to Celsius) is just another issue. Sometimes it'll display as Celsius, as it should, but the majority of the time it doesn't.
A common problem for Google hasn't really figured out that people like batteries that last a long time - at the very least a single day of solid use. By all accounts the Pixel 4 can not do this, with near-universal reports that it ends up needing a recharge by late afternoon/early evening. It certainly doesn't help that the 4's battery is smaller than that of the Pixel 3, which wasn't all sunshine and rainbows to begin with. The Pixel 4 XL battery, which is a good 900mAh larger than the 4, tends to fair much better - but not that much better. Tom's Guide's testing clocked it at lasting roughly 115 minutes longer than the regular 4, though that's still lower than the Galaxy S10 and the iPhone 11 range - which is frankly rather embarrassing.
My battery tests involved streaming a 2h17 minute film from Netflix with maximum brightness. I found that the Pixel 4 would lose 20 per cent of its battery by the end, which the Pixel 4 XL would lose a slightly more reasonable 15 per cent. There are phones that have come out with worse battery drain, though they were all much cheaper and had smaller batteries. In other words, not the kind of things you'd be looking at if you were in the market for a premium phone.
There are serious questions that need answering there. For one, why does the Pixel 4 have such a small battery? Especially with all the fancy tech like 90Hz refresh rate and a literal radar module. And are they what's causing the drain on the much larger Pixel 4 XL?
4K video recording is available on the Pixel 4, but it's limited to a frame rate of 30 frames per second, and people have not been happy about that. Especially not since most other flagships offer that functionality.
Long gone are the days where daft people would take to the comments sections of the internet to argue that 30FPS was fine, and that the human eye could only see 30 frames per second anyway. These days not offering 60FPS is basically a cardinal sin, especially when you're dealing with higher resolutions.
In fact there's code to suggest that Google was going to include that particular mode on the Pixel 4, before abandoning it for some reason. But still the question is why?
