
# Rangers U19s 2 Slovan Bratislava U19s 0 as Dapo Mebude helps dominant Gers to first leg win

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:09:15+00:00**

Author: **Record Sport Online**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-match-reports/rangers-u19s-2-slovan-bratislava-20828217)

Rangers U19s will take a 2-0 lead into their UEFA Youth League second leg with Slovan Bratislava.
Graeme Murty's youngsters dominated their Slovakian rivals and could have won by more than the eventual two goal margin.
Dapo Mebude and Nathan Young-Coombes got the goals but it was Kai Kennedy who was behind the best of their play.
The diminutive youngster had the shot that led to the opener before crossing for Young-Coombes headed finish.
Mebude was the big name in the Rangers team, one of only two with first team appearances. The other was defender Lewis Mayo who played during pre-season friendlies for Steven Gerrard's men.
But it was Kennedy who was running the show from midfield with the highly-rated 17-year-old in control of the tempo.
He first found Young-Coombes with a lovely threaded pass before taking the return and having a shot himself that landed just wide.
Mebude and Ciaran Dickson also had chances before the opening goal came on 28 minutes.
Kennedy raced down the left before his shot was pushed away and landed at the feet of Mebude who finished well.
Rangers were two goals up within six minutes of the second half kicking off.
Again it was Kennedy with the delivery as a short corner was played towards him and he fired it in towards the former Chelsea youngster who nodded home.
The big Rangers support were loving it and sang a song once heard on the Ibrox terraces while Murty was in charge.
Lady Gaga's Paparazzi was a hit with fans in the early stages of Murty's time as caretaker with the words changed to 'I'm your biggest fan I'll follow you until you love me, Graeme, Graeme Murty'.
It was a further sign of the youth coach's rehabilitation from failed caretaker to highly-respected coach since he stepped back into his reserve team role.
No further goals were added but solid chances fell to Mebude, Kennedy and James Maxwell with all unable to find the target.
The second leg takes place in Slovakia in two weeks.
