
# Rabi Pirzada makes heartfelt request on social media following private video leak

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:58:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Entertainment/516920-Rabi-Pirzada-makes-heartfelt-request-social-media-following-video-leak)

LAHORE (Dunya News) – Pakistani pop singer and television host Rabi Pirzada Saturday made a heartfelt request on social media following her indecent video which was leaked on internet a day before.
Rabi Pirzada took to Twitter and wrote, “Allah will conceal the secrets of a person on the Day of Judgment who does not reveal the secrets of others in this world.”
Earlier, Rabi Pirzada had had lodged a complaint in the Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) Cyber Crime Wing against the persons responsible for leaking her private video.
The pop singer took the stance in her application that she had returned her cellular phone to the company from which she bought it after the device ran down. The company gave her a new mobile, she said.
Rabi Pirzada expressed concerns that her data was stolen from the old device and shared with her friends. She requested the FIA Cyber Crime Wing to delete her video from internet which is bringing dishonor to her and her family.
It has been learnt that the FIA has started interrogating the matter. Sources have further revealed that Rabi Pirzada will also contact the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) to prevent the footage from being uploaded. 
