
# EastEnders' Danny Walters quits - and Keanu Taylor could die in explosive exit

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:58:49+00:00**

Author: **Kyle O&#39;Sullivan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/kyle-osullivan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/eastenders-danny-walters-quits-keanu-20791495)

Danny Walters is quitting EastEnders after two-and-a-half - and Keanu Taylor's exit will be explosive.
The 26-year-old actor has confirmed he is leaving the BBC soap, which will always 'hold a special place' in his heart.
EastEnders bosses have teased he will go out in 'spectacular fashion' when his affair with Sharon Mitchell is finally exposed.
Keanu's storyline will come to a 'dramatic and blistering conclusion' when Phil Mitchell discovers his daughter's boyfriend got his pregnant.
EastEnders fans have been left fearing that Keanu will be killed off when Phil gets the ultimate revenge.
Speaking to Digital Spy , Danny said: "It has been a joy to play Keanu Taylor for the last two and a half years. I have been blessed to work with the most fantastic creative team and I will miss them and my fellow actors immensely.
"EastEnders will always hold a special place in my heart and I will continue to be an avid fan."
An EastEnders insider said: "Keanu should know that secrets never stay secret in Walford and he's been playing with fire for months.
"The truth is going to come out in spectacular fashion and bosses are promising that Keanu's exit is going to be explosive."
Phil will discover that his daughter's boyfriend, who he welcomed into the family and added to his will, betrayed him in the worst possible way.
EastEnders' executive producer Jon Sen added: "Keanu's story is set to come to a dramatic and blistering conclusion in the near future as one of the best kept secrets on the Square is finally revealed with devastating consequences.
"We'd all like to thank Danny for his nuanced performance as Keanu Taylor over the last two and half years.
"What Danny has brought to his character has been one of the reasons the 'Sheanu' affair has been such compulsive viewing for fans.
"Everyone at EastEnders wishes him well for the future."
Keanu will soon be found out after getting Sharon pregnant behind husband Phil Mitchell's back during a dramatic festive special.
During an exclusive chat with Mirror Online at the Inside Soap Awards, Danny said: "It’s going to explosive, like classic Christmas Day.
"There’s a lot of involvement of Keanu and Sheanu storyline. And it’s been going for a while, the Sheen storyline and you see different elements to the relationship - when he’s been tied to the bed with pink fluffy handcuffs and you’ve seen him when he’s tied to a warehouse, threatened to kill him.
"So yeah, there’s been different elements and it’s been a rollercoaster ride. But as we know, at some point it will be revealed. And when it does get revealed, it’s going to have such a massive impact on the Square on Keanu and Sharon and Louise and Phil and so many characters. So the repercussions are humungous."
The episode is set to be packed with twists and turns and could be as thrilling for viewers as last year's videotape reveal of Stacey and Max's affair.
Danny told us: "I don’t know who it’s going to be revealed but it’s going to be a very smart, clever… it might not be obvious, it could be something very subtle."
* EastEnders airs Mondays and Fridays at 8pm, and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30pm on BBC One
