
# Is Gold Mining The Primary Growth Engine For Wheaton Precious Metals?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/01/is-gold-mining-the-primary-growth-engine-for-wheaton-precious-metals/)

The gold division became the largest revenue segment for Wheaton Precious Metals (NYSE: WPM) in 2018. Over the last two years, though WPM’s total revenues (shows WPM’s key revenue components) decreased by $97.5 million between 2016 and 2018, while the company’s gold segment saw its revenue base grow by $30 million during the same time. Can WPM’s gold operations continue to command this kind of significance in the near term, or will it be replaced by the newly introduced palladium division? To understand this, please refer to the Trefis interactive dashboard – What Is The Importance Of Gold Mining In Wheaton Precious Metals’ Business? In addition, here is more Materials data.Segment Revenue Trend

        Revenue Share
      
To understand the performance of other operating segments of the company, please refer to the Trefis analysis – Wheaton Precious Metals: How Does WPM Make Money?

        Profitability
      
Trefis estimates Wheaton to be close to $127 million in revenues over the next two years, out of which, $52 million (41%) is expected to come from gold mining. Additionally, segment margins coming at par with the company’s margins, is expected to drive greater focus toward the gold division, which is likely to be the primary growth engine for WPM in the near future.
As per WPM’s Valuation by Trefis, we have a price estimate of $30 per share for WPM’s stock.
 
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
