
# Labour general election candidate in Coventry said she would celebrate when Tony Blair died

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:54:31+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Walker, https://www.facebook.com/JonWalkerPolitics?pnref=story**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/labour-general-election-candidate-coventry-17199921)

The Labour general election candidate for a West Midlands seat has apologised for saying she would "celebrate" when Tony Blair dies.
Coventry South candidate Zarah Sultana wrote in 2015 that she would celebrate the deaths of Tony Blair, former US President George Bush and Benjamin Netanyahu, the Prime Minister of Israel.
She quoted people who said "Don't celebrate the death of any person regardless of what they did", adding her own comment: "Try & stop me when the likes of Blair, Netanyahu and Bush die."
She went on to say: "The sooner they meet their creator the better. The concepts  of justice and accountability don’t truly exist in this life. Only in the next."
 
Tony Blair is the only Labour leader to have led the party to a general election victory since 1974. Ms Sultana's comments appear to have been a response to the UK's involvement in the 2003 invasion of Iraq, while Mr Blair was Prime Minister.
She also complained about a Jewish student attempting to stand as a Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) student leader. Although Jews are an ethnic minority, she suggested it was wrong for this student to stand because she considered them to be white.
She said: "Everyone sees how problematic it is for white people to run for positions representing BME students. Except white people."
Ms Sultana also said she supported "violent resistance" by Palestinians against Israel and described Zionism as "a racist ideology".
 
Zionism is the idea that the state of Israel should exist, although people who criticise Zionism sometimes say that they oppose the actions of the state of Israel rather than its existence.
In a statement published by PoliticsHome, Ms Sultana said: "Today I was shown tweets from a deleted account dating back several years from when I was a student. This was written out of frustration rather than any malice. I was a young activist exasperated by endless cycles of global suffering violence and needless killing resulting from decisions by political leaders, from the Iraq war to the killing of over 2,000 Palestinians in 2014, mostly civilians, which was condemned by the United Nations.
"I do not support violence and I should not have articulated my anger in the manner I did, for which I apologise."
 
Ms Sultana was selected last week to be Labour's candidate for Coventry South, where sitting Labour MP Jim Cunningham is standing down.
But the selection process has been criticised, including by Geoffrey Robinson, the MP for Coventry North West, who is also standing down.
He wrote a letter to Labour's General Secretary complaining about "the shambolic and underhand nature of the Labour Party selection process which has been conducted by the NEC, in both Coventry North West and Coventry South."
