
# Redmi K20 Pro (8GB+256GB) now selling for $327 - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:23:53+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/01/redmi-k20-pro-8gb256gb-now-selling-for-2299-yuan-327/)

Redmi K20 Pro (8GB+256GB) now selling for $3271 (20%) 1 vote
The Redmi K20 Pro is one of many Xiaomi devices that is currently receiving the MIUI 11 update. As the Chinese 11.11 sales hit the road, Redmi announced that the K20 Pro 8GB+256GB version now sells for 2299 yuan ($327).  It’s quite interesting to get an 8GB+256GB device for less than $350.
The Redmi K20 Pro is the first true flagship of the Redmi brand. Lu Weibing, vice president of Xiaomi Group and general manager of Redmi brand, said that the K20 series complements Redmi’s deficiency in flagship phones. The K20 series is the only flagship series of the Redmi brand.
This smartphone comes with a 6.39-inch AMOLED full-screen display with a resolution of 1080 x 2340. It is equipped with Qualcomm Snapdragon 855 flagship platform coupled with up to 8GB of RAM and 256GB of internal storage. In the camera department, it uses a 20MP pop-up front camera. In addition, it comes with a 48MP main sensor on the rear as well as a 13MP and 8MP shooters. Its lights are kept on with a 4000 mAh battery which supports 27W fast charge.
According to Lu Weibing,  the ultimate price/performance ratio is a business model for Redmi and not sales tactics. All in all, the current price of the K20 Pro is very competitive.

        Via
      
