
# Love Island's Malia Arkian and footballer fiancé Hope Akpan welcome adorable baby girl

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:19:26+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Katie Fitzpatrick, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/love-islands-malia-arkian-footballer-17191774)

Love Island's Malia Arkian has given birth to a baby girl.
The Love Island star, who appeared on the show during 2016, has welcomed a daughter with her footballer fiancé.
Malia is currently in a relationship with Bradford City star Hope Akpan.
The pair have named their new arrival Halo.
Sharing images of the tot on Instagram, Malia can be seen donning personalised pink pyjamas as she cradled her precious daughter.
Another snap showed doting dad Hope sharing skin-to-skin contact with their adorable newborn, reports the Manchester Evening News .
Malia said on her Instagram: "So proud to be your mummy, you have been an absolute joy to carry for nine months and thank you for allowing me to have such a smooth and natural labour.
"I am truly blessed. All of God’s grace in one tiny face, Love you Halo Baby. Mummy's got you forever."
The reality star also praised Hope for 'being such an incredible father.'
"So hands on, so loving. Our baby is so lucky to have you," she praised.
Announcing the birth she wrote: "Welcome To The World Baby Halo.
"Dreams do come true, we are eternally grateful!
"Thank You God. Born 25th October 12:45pm weighing 7.7 Pounds. Still speechless and overwhelmed with love."
And Hope said: "My greatest and latest inspiration. Born 25th October weighing 7.7 pounds. Thank you God for a safe delivery, her and mum did amazing. Welcome to the world my precious Halo. Divine aura of light."
