
# Heartbreaking image of little girl in princess dress queueing for food on Halloween

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:02:59+00:00**

Author: **Danya Bazaraa, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/danya-bazaraa/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/heartbreaking-image-little-girl-princess-20790035)

A charity has shared a heartbreaking photo of a little girl in a princess dress queueing for food on Halloween night.
Feed Our Homeless in Dublin, Ireland, posted pictures of people lining up to get a meal at their food station yesterday evening.
Huge queues of homeless people waited in the lashing rain for hot food - as well as support from the charity.
Among those waiting, a young girl was photographed in what appears to be a fancy dress princess gown with a coat over the top.
Next to her stood an even younger boy also looking to be fed.
 
Feed Our Homeless said: "It's [been] a very busy Thursday night for our team of volunteers here at our food station outside the bank of Ireland on college Green.
"As our team of volunteers set up here tonight at 7.30pm we had a huge queue of homeless people with children waiting in the lashing rain for hot food also support from our team."
The organisation's support team was also on site until 10.30pm offering support and advice to people.
"Our Outreach team will be [giving] out hot drinks, sandwiches, also other supplies to help rough sleepers around the city get through the miserable wet and cold night ahead," they said last night.
Other photographs shared on the charity's Facebook page included volunteers on the streets giving hot drinks to homeless people.
Some of the items offered were biscuits, sweets, crisps and orange juice.
Feed Our Homeless are a non profit, non funded, voluntary organisation operating six nights weekly in Dublin City Centre.
Their services include a soup kitchen, outreach and advocacy service as well as educational school workshops.
