
# Family of Alexandria woman Lisa Brown marks fourth anniversary of disappearance

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:27:28+00:00**

Author: **Lorraine Weir**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/family-alexandria-woman-lisa-brown-20810494)

The family of Lisa Brown marked the fourth anniversary of her disappearance today (Monday) as her brother admitted they still remain hopeful they will one day be able to bring her home.
Despite a Spanish judge confirming last month the investigation into the case had been closed, relatives including elder brother Craig Douglas believe they will still get justice for the mum-of-one.
Lisa, from Alexandria, was reported missing on November 4, 2015, after she failed to pick up son Marco from school.
News soon reached her loved ones back home who have battled for justice since.

        Busy West Dunbartonshire route named as one of the country's most dangerous
      
Brother Craig, 49, spoke to our sister paper the Sunday Mail at the weekend and said: “The anniversary is a hard day for us to get through but we have to keep believing that one day we’ll do what we set out to do – find Lisa and bring her home. “We just try to get on with our day-to-day life which isn’t easy.”
There has been an outpouring of grief on the Find Lisa Facebook page by those in the community and sister Helen Jordan put up a poignant post yesterday saying: “Our darling girl, four years ago they took you away from us and I can honestly say that everyday since has been a living hell.
“It doesn’t get any easier. We have worked so hard and found a strength that we never thought possible and that continues for however long it takes. Our love goes to your boy today who misses you so much.”
We told earlier this year how mum Catherine, 74, had passed away leaving the family – including Craig, his brother Martin and Helen – heartbroken that she wouldn’t see justice delivered.
Helen added: “This year we don’t have our wee mum here also. Hopefully she is now wherever you are and she’s still helping us on the journey for justice for you.”
Lisa vanished from Guadiaro, near San Roque in the south-west of Spain, on November 4, 2015. Her ex-boyfriend Simon Corner was at the centre of a murder probe with officers saying a “violent episode” had taken place at the home she shared with the Liverpudlian.
Five other Brits – four men and a woman – were also investigated for obstructing justice.
No trace of her has been found since. Prosecutors halted the investigation in April 2017 because they felt there was insufficient evidence for a trial. But the case was reopened to examine mobile phone data obtained from handsets recovered in Denmark, where Corner was arrested on a European arrest warrant after he fled Spanish police.
Corner – jailed for three months in Gibraltar in 2014 for having an offensive weapon – vanished again when he was on bail but police apprehended him at Heathrow Airport and he was extradited back to Spain in 2018.

        The Lennox Herald exclusively reported in March how the family were told no charges would be brought against her former partner.
      
Craig said at the time the family wouldn’t stop looking for answers and he this week added: “If someone comes forward with new information, then it’ll be reopened. We have a good relationship with the investigators in Spain. They are not working on Lisa’s case 24/7 but, if key information comes to light, then they’ll act on it. It can take people years to decide to speak out. If it happens soon, then great but if it doesn’t, we’ll keep waiting.”
Martin Docherty-Hughes, the MP for West Dunbartonshire, paid tribute to the family adding: “My thoughts are with Lisa’s family who’ve been through a lot this past year yet continue to show remarkable courage and determination in their search for answers about what happened that day.
“Last month I met with the Spanish Ambassador on behalf of Lisa’s family. We remain hopeful of a breakthrough in the investigation and will keep pressing the Spanish authorities to get justice for a much-missed mother, sister and daughter.”
A parliamentary report published on Saturday into the handling of cases where loved ones have died abroad heard from families who branded the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) “worse than useless”.
Lisa’s sister Helen Jordan added her thoughts to the cross-party group investigating the handling of deaths overseas adding: “Lisa has been missing since November 2015, and we had no contact from the UK authorities until FirsytMinister Nicola Sturgeon intervened after we wrote to her.
“The next day we got phone calls, the FCO was falling over to help us. Even now, after all the meetings, we have very little of significance. It takes months to get questions answered, if you’re lucky to actually get an answer.
“Another year has gone by. Is it any wonder families feel completely let down? From our point of view and other families, the FCO wishes we would give up.”

        Debate on Balloch site at centre of Flamingo Land's plans to be held by MSPs
      
An FCO spokesperson said: “Our staff maintain close contact with the families of British nationals who seek our support when we are advised of their need for consular assistance: offering information and advice to support them and making representations to relevant local authorities, when required.
“Last year we helped more than 22,000 British people overseas and the feedback we received was overwhelmingly positive. We carefully consider all feedback we receive to continuously improve our service.”
For more local news, click here
