
# Asda shoppers threaten boycott over 'disgusting' treatment of staff

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:43:41+00:00**

Author: **James Andrews, Saffron Otter, http://www.facebook.com/jameswritesmoney/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/asda-shoppers-threaten-boycott-over-20830480)

Asda shoppers have expressed their outrage after one staff member revealed he lost his job after refusing to sign a new contract.
The new contracts were issued to all staff, and meant people got at least £9 an hour wages, but paid breaks were scrapped and working Bank Holidays will became compulsory.
Former Asda worker Duncan Carson refused to sign, and as a result said he lost his job after 13 years as a baker at the supermarket.
He said the contract was equivalent to "agreeing to work whatever days, hours and bank holidays that suits them that week" - something that Asda says "is not true" - and he said he was "not asked, but told" to sign it.
The ex-baker's tweet has since accumulated more than 10,0000 retweets and almost 20,000 likes, resulting in shoppers threatening to boycott the retailer, the Manchester Evening News reports .
 
"I don't know anyone working for Asda but I've decided to boycott them. It's disgusting treating people like this!" said one Twitter user
Another said they'll "never" shop there again over the treatment of their staff.
Union GMB told Mirror Money it'll be those who "have second jobs" and "childcare responsibilities" that will suffer the most, after the US-owned supermarket issued an ultimatum to workers to sign up to contract changes or leave the company.
"Asda used to be a well-respected company where colleagues were proud to wear the Asda badge. This has changed and the change is not one for the better," union GMB said.
 
However, an Asda spokesperson today told the M.E.N that "fewer than 300 colleagues" are yet to sign the contract and they have written to those individuals.
The supermarket has also extended the deadline for signing contracts "a little longer" to November 10, a spokesman said: "Colleagues can still turn up to work, but anybody working after Saturday night will be doing so on the new terms, including the increased pay rate of £9 per hour, as these will be the only terms that exist in Asda.
"We have been absolutely clear throughout this process that we don't want any of our colleagues to leave us and have worked extensively with them and union representatives to understand and address any concerns.
"The overwhelming majority have chosen to move to this new contract, which represents an £80 million investment in pay for over 100,000 colleagues and ensures the same terms and conditions apply - which is fairer to all our colleagues.
"We understand people have responsibilities outside of work and we will always help them to balance these with their work life.
"Despite extensive engagement throughout this process it is disappointing that there has been some misinformation from external parties to our colleagues.
"We do not want anyone to leave due to misinformation, particularly in these challenging economic times, so once the notice period ends on Saturday, we will write to those colleagues who are still undecided - currently in the hundreds but continuing to drop - offering them the opportunity to sign up because we don't want any colleague to make a decision to leave and then regret it.
"Change is never easy, but we are determined that Asda remains a sustainable business for its customers and colleagues - now and in the future."
