
# Real Star Hits Back At Fans After Debut Goal

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:10:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/real-madrid-star-hits-back-at-fans-after-debut-goal/666536)

Real Madrid’s supporters are notoriously difficult to please and one of the club’s star strikers has now hit back at the criticism after scoring his first goal for Los Blancos.

        
          Read: Cristiano Jr. Following In CR7's Footsteps
        
      
Zinedine Zidane’s side were active in the latest transfer window in which they spent more than €300 million (R5 billion) in transfers to bolster their squad.
One of the new arrivals was Serbian striker Luka Jovic who joined Real for a reported fee of €60 million (R1 billion) after excelling with Bundesliga side Eintracht Frankfurt last season.
The 21-year-old has struggled to live up to expectation, however, and was heavily criticized after drawing a blank in each of his first nine appearances for the club.

        
          Choose the DM for SA’s Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt! 
        
      
Jovic broke his drought with a goal in the LaLiga giants' 5-0 win over Leganes on Wednesday and the former Benfica forward has now responded to his critics.
" It was a difficult period for me, for my career,” he revealed to Marca.
“Although I have never doubted my quality, nor have the people close to me, like my colleagues and my coach, the public was very hard and it was not pleasant to read those articles. I hope they will start trusting me more.”

        Click through the gallery below for images of some of Real's top signings this season!
      
Jovic scored 27 goals in 48 appearances for Frankfurt last season and was named in both the Bundesliga and UEFA Europa League Team of the Season.
