
# Five free agents West Brom could sign ahead of the January transfer window

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Josh Challies**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/west-brom-free-agents-transfer-17212399)

The transfer window may have slammed shut a few months ago but that doesn’t mean that West Bromwich Albion cannot bolster their ranks with new additions.
A number of free agents remain on the hunt for a new club, some of whom have experience in helping to guide a club from the Championship to the riches of the Premier League.
Here, we have identified six players that clubs could consider to provide a boost to their ranks.
The former Australia captain was promoted to the Premier League with Crystal Palace in 2013, spending four seasons in the top-flight before moving to Aston Villa.
Last season, Jedinak featured 17 times during Villa’s promotion-winning campaign and, despite being 35, his experience in earning promotion could be vital for a number of clubs.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
At 28-years-old, Ben Marshall should be in the prime years of his career but is instead without a club following his exit from Norwich City in the summer, having spent last season on loan with Millwall.
Having started his career with Stoke City, Marshall floated around a number of EFL clubs and made four appearances for the Canaries in their promotion-winning campaign last season before moving to Millwall.
 
The 27-year-old Jordon Mutch is certainly well travelled, with his last two places of employment being in South Korea and Canada. At his age though, he has a lot left to offer.
Mutch actually enjoyed promotion to the Premier League twice during his time in England, although he didn’t make an appearance for Birmingham City during the 2008-09 campaign, but he featured 22 times for Cardiff City during the 2012-13 season.
 
The one-cap Scotland international played 32 times for Sunderland during the 2006-07 season, when the Black Cats won promotion to the top-flight, and was also promoted with Burnley in 2014-15.
Now 34, the fact he appeared just once for Fleetwood Town in League One last season is a concern but he could still be a useful asset.
 
The 28-year-old has been a free-agent since leaving Blackburn Rovers in the summer.
The former Everton and Man City midfielder's career has stalled in recent years, although he had been linked with a shock move to Roma.
That has now fallen through and he is still available to sign before the transfer window opens.
