
# Things to do today in Bengaluru

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/things-to-do-today-in-bengaluru/articleshow/71844862.cms)

It’s magic The world famous magicians PC Sorcar (Young and Master) are in town, to cast a spellbinding performance with their family’s hit show Indrajal with multiple shows across two weeks. For the uninitiated, magic and the Sorcar family go hand in hand. PC Sorcar (Senior) had once famously said, ‘When asleep, I breathe magic. When awake, I work magic’. And it was he who took Indian magic on the world stage. WHERE: Town Hall, Sampangi Rama Nagar WHEN: 4pm & 7pm, November 1 ENTRY: `500 onwards, bookmyshow.com Learn about veganism November 1 is World Vegan Day and the city is participating in the celebrations too. Like at this resto cafe today, you can watch The Game Changers – a revolutionary new film about health, fitness, meat, strength and protein. Also, learn the advantages of consuming plant-based food at a panel discussion, featuring health experts such as Dr Vidya Chakravarthy, Dr Neetu Jain, Dr Rajeena Shahin and Dr Saravanan R. WHERE: JustBe Cafe, 383/31 13th Cross, Sadashivnagar WHEN: 3pm-7.30pm, November 1-3 48538672 Visit a flea market Indian Craft Collective aims to promote Indian craftsman, artisans and women entrepreneurs from different parts of the country. To that effect, it is hosting an exhibition-cum-sale of jute bags, pottery, brass handicrafts, handloom sarees, bedsheets, handmade jewellery, paintings, home decor items and more. Plus, they have arranged for live music and performances. WHERE: Karnataka Chitrakala Parishath, Kumara Park East, Seshadripuram WHEN: 10am-9pm, November 1-3 ENTRY: Free Watch a play Lihaaf is a theatrical narration of Padma Shree (1976) awardee Ismat Chugtai’s famous story of the same name. This play comes to India after two successful runs in London. The production deals with the subjects of homosexuality and freedom of speech, that our society is grappling with even today. The story is told from the point of view of a young girl and her experiences when she visits her relative Begum Jaan. WHERE: Lahe Lahe, HAL 2nd Stage, Indiranagar WHEN: 5pm-6pm, November 1 ENTRY: `250, bookmyshow.com Think it over Red Dress Waali Ladki is an ongoing, experimental performance piece by Diya Naidu. It was born out of Naidu’s response to the brutal crimes against women in India. Through the research and introspection that went into making the work, she decided to talk about the layered, subtle experience of the woman, who is seemingly liberated but constantly carrying fear in her body. Through the performance, she asks: Where does this patriarchal penetration locate itself? If ‘her’ rape is ‘my’ rape, can my bliss be hers too? Can men be invited as equals into this? WHERE: LshVa, Koramangala WHEN: 7pm-8.30pm, November 1 ENTRY: `204, pages.razorpay.com To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
