
# Screwfix reveals opening date of new Kingswinford store - and it's offering exclusive deals

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:44:18+00:00**

Author: **Jordan Coussins, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/jordan-coussins/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/black-country/screwfix-reveals-opening-date-new-17184646)

Exclusive discounts, a £150 gift card and new jobs are on offer as popular trade retailer announces its opening date of its new Black Country store.
Leading trade retailer, Screwfix, is set to officially open its new store in Kingswinford on Thursday, November 14.
The new branch – which is in Second Avenue, Pensnett Trading Estate – has created nine new jobs in the area and will help local tradespeople get what they need as quickly as possible to get the job done.
 
Tradespeople and serious DIYers are all invited to attend the special weekend and can demonstrate their professional skills in a free-to-enter competition.
The winner will receive a £150 Screwfix gift card.
Throughout the store’s celebration period and through until Sunday, November 17, Screwfix will offer a 10 per cent discount on all product ranges.
Store manager, Jayne Luxton believes the store’s convenient location, wide product range and ability to provide a Click & Collect service in as little as one minute from ordering, is a real bonus to local tradespeople and DIY enthusiasts, who need to get jobs done quickly, affordably and right first time.
“I’m confident we’ve got a great location here in Kingswinford. My team and I have been getting to know local businesses and tradespeople and we look forward to supporting them in their busy lives, with a focus on customer service.”
The brand’s huge range of the latest innovative and affordable products and exceptional deals are also available online at www.screwfix.com, on mobiles or over the phone on 03330 112 112.
Many commentators have reacted with the delight of the new potential store.
“Oh yes,” said one. “I’ve been wanting a Screwfix closer to home for some time now – this will do nicely.”
Another added: “Great news, saves me having to go to Brierley Hill.”
While a third wrote: “Silly place to have it. 7 days a week. You will have to go through the main gate on Saturday and Sunday and be checked in and out by security. But you should be secure as there are loads of security cameras everywhere.”
Visit Screwfix’s Kingswinford store at: Second Avenue, Pensnett Trading Estate, Kingswinford, DY6 7UF.
