
# Sonny Bill Williams is right - New Zealand is long overdue for a non-European coach

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:52:07+00:00**

Author: **Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/sonny-bill-williams-is-right-new-zealand-is-long-overdue-for-a-non-european-coach)


        NZ Herald
      
Sonny Bill Williams is right. We’re overdue for a Pacific Island or Maori coach of the All Blacks and not just in an assistant’s or advisory role either.
In the same way New Zealand Rugby might benefit from a female chief executive, so the All Blacks could do with a Pasifika head coach.
But who? Pat Lam was virtually run out of the Blues – and out of the country – and now coaches ex-All Blacks such as Charles Piutau, Steven Luatua and John Afoa at Bristol.
The star of Blues assistant Tana Umaga appears to have waned, while Tabai Matson has been retained on the staff of incoming Chiefs head coach Warren Gatland.
At provincial level Alama Ieremia and Filo Tiatia have done well with Auckland, but Darryl Suasua’s just led Counties Manukau to relegation.

        Click here to see the video
      
Wherever you look, the plentiful supply of Pasifika players at all levels of our game simply isn’t replicated in the coaching ranks and that’s a problem.
Rugby’s traditionally been a mono-culture. We work hard, we play hard and everyone’s equal. Or at least equal in the sense that anyone who’s different is made to conform to the prevailing view.
Australia’s Israel Folau couldn’t do that and look where it got him. More importantly, look at the team-mates who endorsed his infamous Instagram post.
Even players in other teams, such as England No 8 Billy Vunipola, came out in support of Folau and his religious beliefs.
The rest of us condemned Folau and rightly so. Or at least that’s what we told ourselves. After all, we’re right and he was patently wrong.
I’m not here to support Folau, but his employment issue with Rugby Australia provides an interesting illustration of how badly things can go wrong when management of one colour tell staff of another what they can and can’t do or say or think.
Let’s go back to Williams who, when asked to endorse Ian Foster’s candidacy as the next All Blacks head coach, instead said it would be nice to see Pacific Island or Maori coaches in the mix. After all, as Williams said, “there are a lot of island boys, a lot of Maori boys who play for the All Blacks.”
How much better might those guys play if they felt truly valued or included in team culture? No-one’s saying they’re excluded, but the hierarchy of that side is pretty Anglo-Saxon and almost always has been.
That’s fine if that’s the prevailing background of your players, but the issue now for rugby is it’s not.
