
# Chelsea predictions vs. Ajax: Blues will need to be at their best to earn a result

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:00:05+00:00**

Author: **The Pride of London Staff**

Original: [The Pride of London](https://theprideoflondon.com/2019/11/05/chelsea-ajax-predictions-stamford-bridge/)

Our writers foresee Chelsea’s home form working against them as they host Ajax in the Champions League. The Blues have the momentum in the group and overall, but nothing will be easy about tonight’s tie.
Scott Brant: Chelsea 2 – 1 Ajax. I may have to ride the safe and uncreative prediction of 2-1 wins for a week or two. I can’t put my finger on it just yet, but I have a sneaky feeling this match ends in a draw. I have more confidence in Chelsea on the road then I do at Stamford Bridge as of late. Ajax were difficult in the first meeting, with the Blues edging them late after a long stretch at 1-1 ends with Michy Batshuayi winning it late again.
Barrett Rouen: 1 – 1. It would be an incredibly boring and unoriginal prediction that came in as something like 2-1. 2-1 is, of course, possible, given that it’s the safest bet in the world for this Chelsea side. The match, though, likely won’t be much more exciting than the person who would predict a 2-1 scoreline yet again.
Ajax likely won’t lose to Chelsea again in the group stage. They’re a good side and a clean sweep of them is unlikely. The Dutch giants and the boys in Blue to come out even, Tammy Abraham to score.
Abhishek Pancholi: 3 – 1. This is what happens when you break a team’s unbeaten home record. Ajax will come into the game having already been beaten at home by their hosts, a home where they hadn’t lost in ages. Chelsea’s home record this season is by no means stellar, but they will have the measure of their opponents on the night.
Willian and Tammy Abraham will put the home side in control in the first half, but complacency in the second period will allow Ajax to get one back. The Chelsea defence will survive several scares until the 80′ when Mateo Kovacic will pop up in the right place and at the right time to bundle one over the line, breaking his Chelsea goalscoring duck.
Nate Hofmann: 2 – 2. It’s safe to say that Ajax bounced back from their loss against Chelsea, hammering Feyenoord 4-0 at home, followed by a 4-2 victory away against Zwolle.  Meanwhile, Chelsea have won impressively against Burnley, lost dumbly against Manchester United, and won stressfully at Watford.
Christian Pulisic is obviously the man of the moment, but he has started the last three matches and may be due for a rest. Given how effective he was as a sub in Amsterdam, that might not be the worst idea.
The first tiebreaker in Champions League groups is now head-to-head points, so Ajax will be desperate to win, while a draw would put Chelsea in pole position to advance to the knockout rounds.
It’s hard to imagine Frank Lampard instructing his side to play for a draw, so it should be an intense affair from the first whistle, but you could see Chelsea try to close up shop if they’re leading late in the match. Safely seeing out matches has been the team’s biggest weakness though, so I’ll bet on Ajax finding a very late equalizer, and Chelsea just managing to hold on for the point. Disappointing, but job done.
Olaoluwa Nwobodo: 2 – 1. Chelsea really pushed their luck with the amount of times they allowed Ajax to get in behind them. They will not be as lucky this time and I don’t see a clean sheet in this one. The Blues will be more comfortable in this game even though their home form has been subpar. Goals from Michy Batshuayi.
Hugo Amaya: 1 – 1. Chelsea have had a good run in the more important games in the last few weeks (we can let Manchester United have the “glory” of the EFL Cup). But this one will be difficult for the Blues. Ajax already know what it takes to win and won’t take anything less than a point for an answer.
Chelsea will go in front in the first half and play comfortably until the pressure piles on late in the game. Ajax will score a goal from a set piece making the game level.
Frank Lampard will be disappointed to not get the win, but there will be a lot of positives and a lot of lessons to take from the game.
Varun Dani: 3 – 1. Ajax will be back with a vengeance for the Group H six-pointer, as Frank Lampard will have to prepare his team to defend relentless waves of attack from the visitors. Kurt Zouma will have to continue his imperious form and Fikayo Tomori will have to put an end to his silly dangerous mistakes if Chelsea is to get anything from the game.
The midfield partnership of Mateo Kovacic and Jorginho will have another masterclass, though, and Callum Hudson-Odoi will remind everyone why he was one of the most hotly debated topics of 2019 with a magnificent performance. Expect it to be 1-1 by the hour mark and Chelsea sealing the victory in the late on.
Kevin Peacock: 1 – 1. Chelsea’s home form is no where near as good as their away form. Stamford Bridge is yet to become the fortress it once was under the likes of Jose Mourinho and Carlo Ancelotti.
The Blues beat Ajax in Holland but may struggle this time around as the Dutch side look to avenge that defeat. The game will be a tight one, ending in a draw with William getting the goal.
