
# 'We will take what we can get,' Moe says on prospective carbon tax talks

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:01:27+00:00**

Author: **Arthur White-Crummey**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/saskatchewan/we-will-take-what-we-can-get-moe-says-on-prospective-carbon-tax-talks)

Premier Scott Moe said his government “will take what we can get” for Saskatchewan industries if he has a chance to sit down with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and negotiate carbon pricing.
“Myself and the prime minister need to work together to repair the relationship and to change our direction with respect to where that relationship has been over the course of the last four years,” he said. “Much of this onus is on the prime minister.”
Moe’s comments came as Saskatchewan NDP leader Ryan Meili followed the premier’s recent letter seeking a “new deal for Canada” with a carbon tax message of his own to Trudeau.
While Moe has demanded a pause on the federal carbon backstop, Meili made a more focused demand on Wednesday. He wants an expedited rebate for farmers who are paying higher gas bills to dry grain during a wet harvest season.
He said he’s heard stories about producers getting stuck with bills hundreds of dollars higher than what they would otherwise pay.
In question period Wednesday, Meili accused Moe of failing to prepare for an “entirely preventable” issue.
Moe agreed that farmers are struggling with a “challenging harvest.” He said he personally knows of 10 farmers who have received energy bills in the thousands of dollars. But he repeated his call for a full moratorium on the carbon tax — rather than piecemeal tweaks — and accused Meili of changing his views.
“I’m actually pleased that Mr. Meili now has flip-flopped his position,” Moe told reporters. “He’s come around after three years, really, to the position of the government of this province that a carbon tax is ineffective.”
Meili has expressed support for carbon pricing in principle, but objected to the federal carbon backstop as inappropriate for Saskatchewan. He said he supports Moe’s call for a pause. He simply thinks the strategy isn’t working.
“He keeps floating that balloon and it doesn’t work, nobody’s listening,” said Meili. “Here’s something that is very practical, a very real difference for the bottom line of farmers.”
He argued that Moe is playing politics on the carbon tax issue.
“He’s more interested in whatever mileage he can get out of this politically than he is in making a real difference for farmers today,” said Meili.
Moe has proposed a face-to-face meeting with Trudeau, but said he is still waiting for the prime minister to confirm. He continued to link the grain-drying issue with the carbon tax as a whole, but signalled openness to negotiating whatever concessions he can get out of the meeting.
“We will take what we can get as far as reducing the cost on Saskatchewan farmers and Saskatchewan industries,” said Moe.
But he said he will continue to ask Trudeau for carbon pricing to be fully removed from agricultural activities, as well as from consumer fuels.
He declined Meili’s offer to sign on to the letter.
“I will not be co-signing a letter with the leader of the Opposition here in the province,” Moe said. “If he wants a co-signer for that letter, he should ask his federal leader, Jagmeet Singh.”
Meili said he’s open to that idea.
“I’ll cc him on the letter,” Meili told reporters. “I’m being serious. I think you’re absolutely right, and, heck, why don’t we send it to Mr. Scheer and everybody who’s leading a federal party.”
He accepted that his tone was less combative than the premier’s prior statements to Trudeau about the carbon tax.
“I’ll leave the bombast to the professionals,” Meili said.

        awhite-crummey@postmedia.com
      
