
# PwC Luxembourg Organizes IOTA Blockchain-Focused Event

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:00:26+00:00**

Author: **Aisshwarya Tiwari**

Original: [BTC Manager](https://btcmanager.com/pwc-luxembourg-iota-blockchain-event/)


        PwC Luxembourg is set to host an event titled “IOTA: Beyond Blockchain” on November 13, 2019, to spread the word about the German distributed ledger technology (DLT) among the masses. This, according to an article by 
        
          The Merkel
        
        , November 4, 2019.
      
Berlin-based DLT non-profit IOTA is primed to receive a high-profile endorsement from one of the leading accounting and auditing firms in the world. The fintech venture that aims to power the Machine to Machine (M2M) and Internet of Things (IoT) economy of the future will be the subject matter for the upcoming event organized by PwC Luxembourg.
While not a lot of details have been shed about the event yet, sources close to the matter state that it will center around the basics, the latest developments, and the applications of IOTA. The official announcement reads in part:
To inculcate a better understanding about the blockchain venture among the masses, PwC Luxembourg has decided to dedicate an entire event to IOTA.
According to the event’s schedule, IOTA co-founder, Dominik Schiener will give a 40-minute talk titled “IOTA from A to Z” to the audience in attendance. Further, Prem Kumar, Associate Director, Smart Trace Senior Technical Lead, PwC India, is expected to give a 20-minute demo on the aforementioned blockchain-powered traceability tool.
IOTA, while being one of the most promising projects in the crypto and blockchain space, is also one of the most technically complex DLT ventures in the budding industry. The non-profit’s flagship Tangle blockchain is a customized iteration of DLT that executes and confirms transactions between machines and electronic devices at minimal cost and maximum speed.
As reported by BTCManager on April 29, 2019, IOTA had partnered with Jaguar Land Rover to test a prototype that would pay vehicle drivers MIOTA tokens as a reward for sharing data.
