
# GTBank, Zenith, Access, FBN, 10 others spend over N8 billion on CSR

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:00:39+00:00**

Author: **Abiola Odutola**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/03/gtbank-zenith-access-fbn-10-others-spend-over-n8-billion-on-csr/)

GTBank Plc, Zenith Bank, Access Bank, First Bank of Nigeria (FBN), United Bank of Africa (UBA) and 10 others spent over N8 billion on their Corporate Social Responsibilities in 2018.
While Zenith Bank Plc spent N3.06 billion, UBA spent N1.04 billion, GTBank spent N928.07 million, FBN spent N831 million, Access Bank (N376.75 million), FCMB (N315.80), Sterling Bank (N299.01 million), Stanbic IBTC (N233.40 million), Fidelity (N158.36 million), Wema Bank (N34.62 million), Union Bank (N30.20 million) and Unity Bank (N13.38 million).

        [READ MORE: GTBank, Access, Zenith, UBA, FBN loans rise to N9.28 trillion in six months]
      
The financial institution spent N3.06 billion on various states governments’ security funds (N1.57 billion). Others are:
The Bank identifies with the aspirations of the communities and the environments in which it operates. It made contributions to charitable and non-charitable organisations amounting to N376.7 million, lower than the N567.02 million it spent in 2017.
Others are sponsorship of the 2018 International Press Institute Conference (N10 million), supporting 2018 World Mosquito Day (N10,000); contribution towards commemoration of World Malaria Day 2018 (N6.03 million), sponsorship of the African Women Business Initiative (N5.50 million) and contribution to NSE for its Essay Competition (N5 million) among others.
FBN’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CR&S) involves meeting the needs of its current stakeholders now and in the future. It goes beyond financing economic activity in a responsible way to ensuring an inclusive, positive impact on our communities. It is about creating long-term stakeholder value by adopting the opportunities and managing the associated environmental, social and governance risks. It concentrated on areas like:

        [READ ALSO: 
        GTBank removes all Bank Charges for Young Undergraduates on its GTCRea8 Account Product]
      
The bank engaged in various community development initiatives either directly through UBA Foundation, its special purpose vehicle for Corporate Social Responsibility, or in partnership with credible non-governmental organisations and public institutions. They are:
Others are Delta State African Senior Athletics Competition (N10 million), Flood Victims of Jibia Local Government Area, Katsina State (N10 million), Augustine University, Lagos State (N10 million), Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida University, and Niger State (N10 million) among others.
