
# Google Store ad suggests $200 off Pixel 4 on Black Friday

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:55:55+00:00**

Author: **Abner Li**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/07/pixel-4-black-friday/)

After last year, waiting for the holiday season to buy the latest Made by Google phone is advisable. A Google Store ad today suggests that the Pixel 4 on Black Friday and Cyber Monday will be $200 off.
According to one Redditor that encountered a Google Store ad, the “Pixel 4 & 4 XL are $200 off.” This “Save on Google Pixel 4” banner notes how you can “Shop the deal through 12/2,” which implies one deal starting on Black Friday (or earlier) and lasting into the weekend until Cyber Monday.
The Pixel 4 Black Friday ad implies that all models will be discounted by $200. In this scenario, the 64 GB Pixel 4 is $599 and 128 GB is $699, while the Pixel 4 XL starts at $699 and goes to $799. Clearly White and Just Black will be available, but it’s not clear if the the “limited” stock of Oh So Orange will last.
This possible Pixel 4 Black Friday will likely cause another uproar among early Made by Google adopters. Assuming the $200 deal is across the line, this is more generous than last year where the identically priced Pixel 3 was discounted by $150 and the Pixel 3 XL by $200.
In 2018, there was even an early Black Friday promo that saw buying a Pixel 3 or Pixel 3 XL at full price and getting a second phone at up to 50% off. Meanwhile, pre-orders this year will receive a $100 Google Store credit, though it’s not yet available.
Be sure to visit 9to5Toys this holiday season for wall-to-wall coverage of the best deals and discounts.

        If you also encounter this ad online, be sure to screenshot and post in the comments.
      

        More about Pixel 4:
      
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
