
# Paul Merson wades into Granit Xhaka debate and sides with him against Arsenal boo boys

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:51:03+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/paul-merson-wades-granit-xhaka-20832242)

Paul Merson has called on fans to recognise Granit Xhaka does everything he can for Arsenal, adding: "It's never nice to be booed by your own fans."
Xhaka was stripped of the Gunners captaincy this week after a run-in with supporters during the 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace.
The Swiss took offence to fans booing him and reacted by swearing, cupping his ears and removing his Arsenal shirt before storming off down the tunnel to the changing room.
Former Arsenal star Merson admits he isn't Xhaka's biggest fan, suggesting he understands why he singled him out at the Emirates.
But says he's "paid badly" for his outburst by losing the captaincy.
"I haven't been his biggest fan but I can understand what he went through the other week was hard to take," Merson told Sky Sports. "It's never nice to be booed by your own fans.
"He's not the most talented footballer but he gives everything he can.
"He makes mistakes but he always turns up. He's never injured, he always gets out on the pitch and looks for the ball.
"It's frustrating because if he could have that time again he probably wouldn't have done what he did but he cares, he cares.
"I don't care who you are, no one wants to be booed by their own fans, even [Lionel] Messi and [Cristiano] Ronaldo. He had a mad 30 seconds and he's badly paid for it.
"To be captain of Arsenal is a massive honour."
