
# Jeff Sessions rips protests during Northwestern University speech:

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jessica Chasmar**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/6/jeff-sessions-rips-protests-during-northwestern-un/)

Former U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions was repeatedly interrupted and eventually escorted offstage under police protection after giving a public speech at Northwestern University in Illinois on Tuesday.
During Mr. Sessions’ speech titled, “The Real Meaning of the ‘Trump Agenda,” students chanted, “No justice, no peace,” outside and tried to enter the back entrance of Lutkin Hall before police rushed in, according to videos posted by attendees to Twitter.
“I’m just going to tell you, this is stupid,” the former senator said as students outside chanted, “F– Jeff Sessions” and “You are a racist, you put kids in cages,” The Daily Northwestern student newspaper reported.
“They can have a right to do it, OK, but at some point I have to speak,” Mr. Sessions said. “You shouldn’t be blaming young Republicans for meticulously defending their beliefs and putting up with this kind of trash.”
The Daily Northwestern reported that a counterprotest called a “Night of Action at Northwestern University” took place at the same time as Mr. Sessions’ speech.
A video posted by the conservative Young America’s Foundation showed police trying to control protesters who were able to make their way into the building of Mr. Sessions’ event.
“Black and brown lives have never [expletive] mattered to this university!” one woman screamed in the video.
“We are fighting for their lives right now,” another protester said in the video. “And that man in there has violated every single one of us. … You all should be ashamed of yourselves and I’m ashamed to call myself a student of Northwestern right now.”
Another added, “Everyone in that [expletive] room is a criminal!”
Photos taken at the event showed Mr. Sessions leaving the stage while surrounded by security officers, Fox News reported.
Julie Payne-Kirchmeier, interim vice president of student affairs, said the university worked with organizers of both events to ensure student safety.
“For me, this is a university, and we value academic freedom, and we value creating an environment where we are listening and engaging and understanding different points of view,” Ms. Payne-Kirchmeier told The Daily Northwestern.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
