
# Watch: Salman Khan wishes Shah Rukh Khan on his birthday in the most adorable way

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:26:17+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/watch-salman-khan-wishes-shah-rukh-khan-on-his-birthday-in-the-most-adorable-way/articleshow/71873703.cms)

Shah Rukh Khan's birthday was celebrated across the globe yesterday. The badshaah of Bollywood received warm wishes from the nooks and corners of the nation. Moreover, his 54th birthday turned out to be a special one as for the first time, the world famous Burj Khalifa was lit up with a special message for Shah Rukh Khan on his birthday, yesterday.
Our B-town celebs too wished the King Khan on his special day. Karan Johar, Ayushmann Khurrana, Madhuri Dixit, Boman Irani, Kartik Aaryan and many others extended their birthday wishes for the star. Last but not the least, SRK's dear friend, colleague and neighbor Salman Khan took to his Instagram handle to share a warm wish for SRK in the most adorable way. He shared a video, where in Salman Khan along with Sonakshi Sinha, Sohail Khan, Aayush Sharma, Jacqueline Fernandes, Manish Paul, Warina Hussain sang the happy birthday song for SRK. At the end of the video, we can hear Salman Khan saying, "Abe tujhe phone kiya tha... phone toh utha leta mera..." on which Sonakshi says,'Very bad... very bad..."
Watch the video here:
SRK and Salman did many noteworthy films together in Bollywood and was lastly seen together in Anand L Rai's 'Zero', where Salman made a special appearance for a song in the film.
