
# Turkey threatens to send ISIS fighters back to home countries

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:42:04+00:00**

Author: **Jakob Hanke**

Original: [POLITICO](https://www.politico.eu/article/turkey-threatens-to-send-isis-fighters-back-to-home-countries/)

Turkey will send captured Islamic State members back to their home countries, Turkey's Interior Minister Süleyman Soylu said Saturday.
Soylu lashed out at European governments for their refusal to take back nationals who joined the group. “That is not acceptable to us. It’s also irresponsible,” he said according to Reuters. “We will send the captured Daesh [ISIS] members to their countries."
EU governments have been at odds over whether to repatriate people who went to Syria and Iraq to fight with the Islamic State group. France has advocated bringing the fighters home to face justice. Germany has opted to leave its nationals in the hands of Kurdish fighters and has only repatriated some children and women.
However, many fighters have escaped from Kurdish camps since Turkey launched a military incursion in Northern Syria and some have been re-captured by Turkish forces.
In an interview on LBC Thursday, Donald Trump said that the U.S. had offered to hand ISIS fighters back to their home governments. “We offered to give the ones from the UK back to the UK but they don’t want them, we offered France, we offered Germany."
But the president said national capitals were reluctant to take them. “They came from your territory and you guys ... you didn’t want to take them back."
