
# 30-Second Tests That’ll Show if You Have a Healthy Body

Published at: **2019-11-01T01:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/inspiration-health/30-second-tests-thatll-show-if-you-have-a-healthy-body-794635/)

The risk of getting sick increases drastically as we grow old and our immune system becomes weaker, according to doctors. While it is recommended that you get a full physical check-up every 2 years, here are some quick tests you can try at home for your own peace of mind. These will only take about 30 seconds and let you know if everything is okay with your body or not.
Bright Side has compiled a list of 5 super-quick tests that will tell you if there’s a need for you to visit a specialist or if there’s nothing to worry about.
With your right thumb and index finger, put pressure on the top part of your left hands’ fingers by squeezing the roots of nails. Start with your thumb and hold for 3-5 seconds. After that, proceed to other fingers and repeat the same.
After you remove the pressure, blood should come rushing back in no more than 2 seconds. If it does, your body has sufficient blood flow. Your fingers are closely connected to your internal organs and if the above test was painful for you, there might be something wrong. Here’s what pain in different fingers means, according to experts:
For this test, make a fist and hold your hand in the same position. After 30 seconds, open your fist and you will notice that your palm has turned white. When you make a fist, your blood vessels get squeezed, restricting the blood flow to your hand.
If after you free your hand, the blood comes rushing back, it means your blood vessels are working just fine and you are healthy. On the other hand, if it takes a while for the palm to turn back to its usual red again, it can be a sign of arteriosclerosis.
If you do this successfully, your body is healthy. But, if the test was painful for you, you might have a problem with your gluteus maximus, one of the strongest muscles in your body.
If you were able to do the above without twitching your legs or moving them, your body is healthy. On the other hand, if you found this task to be really difficult, there might be something wrong with your abdomen or lower spine.
If you pass this test without difficulty, your body is healthy. If you fail, there might be a problem with your spine.
Please, keep in mind these tests are not an alternative to actual tests done by a professional, but only a quick self-check that you can conduct at home. If you are having any troublesome symptoms, don’t delay in consulting a doctor.
Were you able to pass the tests? What are the natural measures you take to keep yourself healthy and active? Share your secrets with us in the comments!
Illustrated by Alena Sofronova for BrightSide.me
