
# Simplify your graphic design work with this Photoshop-alternative

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **TNW Deals**

Original: [The Next Web](https://thenextweb.com/offers/2019/11/04/simply-your-graphic-design-work-with-this-photoshop-alternative/)

TLDR: Fotor Online Pro lets you edit photos and create graphics all in one app for as low as $19.99.
A versatile robust graphics app is the true lifeblood of any graphic design project. However, the most popular tool for creating eye-catching graphics remains Adobe Illustrator, a program that’ll cost you almost $250 for a one-year license.
While many app shoppers will swallow hard at that price point, there are thankfully some very worthy and, in some cases, smarter alternatives.
Like Fotor Online Pro, the all-in-one visual content generator that’s garnered an impressive 4.6 out of 5 star-rating from over 2,300 reviews in the Mac App Store. All that Fotor love is probably because it can do practically everything Illustrator can do more easily and for a lot less money.
And, with the latest limited time offer from TNW Deals, you can now score the Fotor Online Pro service plan that works for you for over 80 percent off, starting as low as $19.99 for a 12-month subscription.
In fact, Fotor starts with its own built-in photo editor sporting their HDR technology, allowing you to handle all the cropping, resizing, retouching and other intricate image manipulation like exposure and color changes you’d usually expect from Photoshop or other high-end editors.
But where those editors finish, Fotor powers on, featuring a stockpile of cool templates, tools and other customizable elements to create social media graphics, photo collages, posters, ad graphics and more.
With this deal, a one-year Fotor Online Pro subscription is just $19.99 (an 81 percent savings), but you can save even more by extending your plan to a 3-year ($29.99), 5-year ($49.99) or a full lifetime subscription ($69.99) while this offer lasts.

        Prices subject to change.
      
