
# The best VPN deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:40:00+00:00**

Author: **Ashleigh Macro**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/internet/vpn-deals-3667656/)

If you're considering subscribing to a VPN service, the great news is that there are always fantastic deals on offer. We've picked the best deals from the top services, which you'll find below.
These are the best VPN deals available, including 70% off our top pick NordVPN, 83% off Surfshark as well as offers from CyberGhost, ExpressVPN and others.

        From: SurfsharkWas: £227.76Now: £38.16 (£1.59 per month)  (83% off) View Deal
      
Sign up for two years of this great VPN to get it for a bargain £1.59 per month, which is one of the cheapest deals around.

        From: PureVPNWas: $10.95 per monthNow: $1.65 per month  (85% off) View Deal
      
Get 85% off when you subscribe to five years of PureVPN - $1.65 is approximately £1.28. PureVPN currently sits at number three in our best VPN chart. 

        From: CyberGhostNow: £75.60 (£2.10 per month)  (80% off) View Deal
      
Get three years of CyberGhost for just £2.10 per month. You'll find CyberGhost at number four in our round-up of the best VPNs – a good choice.

        From: NordVPNWas: £348.46Now: £101.76 upfront (£2.82 per month)  (70% off) View Deal
      
Get NordVPN for only £2.82 a month by signing up to the three-year plan for £101.52. NordVPN tops our round-up of the best VPN services you can buy.

        From: TunnelBearWas: $239.76Now: $99.99 ($4.17 per month)  (58% off) View Deal
      
Get two years of TunnelBear for a total of US$99.88, which is $4.17 per month. That's around £3.40.

        From: ExpressVPNWas: $194.25Now: $99.95 ($6.67 per month)  (49% off) View Deal
      
Get ExpressVPN, one of our favourite VPNs, for $6.67 per month rather than $12.95 per month. At current exchange rates, this works out to be about £5.40.

        From: Private Internet AccessWas: $119.40Now: $39.95 ($3.33 per month)  (67% off) View Deal
      
Private Internet Access's current offer gets you 67% off the one-year subscription (it's about £2.60 for those in the UK). It's in the top 10 of our best VPN chart – read our full review here.

        From: Hidden24Now: £9.99 total for 3 months with code idg1709View Deal
      
Get Hidden24 VPN for just £3.33 per month for 3 months using the exclusive code idg1709.
A VPN (Virtual Private Network) is designed to keep you safe from prying eyes online by offering completely anonymous browsing. Not only will it protect your identity and sensitive information, particularly necessary on public or shared WiFi networks, it can also allow you to access blocked content. This can include BBC iPlayer when you’re travelling outside the UK, as well as Netflix in other regions like the US.
Usually available in the form of three or four different plan options, VPNs are traditionally something you can subscribe to for a month or more, with the more time you commit to reducing the price significantly.
Plans also tend to allow you to use the VPN on more than one device, including a PC, Mac and mobile devices.
Discounts on VPNs can be huge, with savings of more than 50% available from some of our favourite VPN providers from time to time.
We have plenty of content to help you find out everything you need to know about using a VPN. You can take a look at our favourites in our best VPN round-up, find one that'll let you access US Netflix in our round-up of the best Netflix VPNs, or simply find out how to use a VPN here.
