
# Watch: 'Jabra fan' Ayushmann Khurrana may just have the best birthday wish for Shah Rukh Khan

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:13:34+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/watch-jabra-fan-ayushmann-khurrana-may-just-have-the-best-birthday-wish-for-shah-rukh-khan/articleshow/71866392.cms)

As Bollywood superstar, Shah Rukh Khan turned a year older today, a sea of fans were seen arriving at his residence Mannat to kick off birthday celebrations at the stroke of midnight. Beating the deluge, fans arrived with notes of love, banners and customized t-shirts, to share their love and admiration for the star. However, Ayushmann Khurrana may have just out-done everyone’s birthday wishes, by playing the perfect SRK fan in his upcoming movie ‘Bala’.
Sharing a promo video of his SRK mimicry in the film, the actor revealed in a social media post that it was on his insistence that the makers incorporated his love for King Khan in the film.
Sharing the video that has its bits of comedy and romance, Ayushmann penned a note that read, “Happy bday Shah sir @iamsrk Main #Bala film mein aapka fan bana hoon. I’d insisted on this. So the producer & the director incorporated it in the script. Sapne dikhaane ke liye shukriya. Pyaar mein yakeen dilaane ke liye shukriya. Aapka jabra fan aur #SRKian. #HappyBirthdaySRK.”
Ayushmann also shared a new dialogue promo clip that will only make you eager for the film’s release later this week.
Directed by Amar Kaushik, 'Bala' narrates the plight of a young man who suffers from premature balding, is scheduled to release on November 7.
The film was initially scheduled to release on November 1 along with 'Ujda Chaman', but a clash of the similar-themed films was avoided.
