
# Dragged to work? I can relate to that

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:51:55+00:00**

Author: **Letters**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/06/dragged-to-work-i-can-relate-to-that)


        Gary Younge | Boris Johnson | Classical music | Japanese honesty | Commons Speaker
      
Well done, Gary Younge, on your appointment as professor (Report, 6 November). You have a rare talent that makes a reader feel present. I recall a May 2014 article recounting your two meetings with the late Maya Angelou which does it in spades: “As her car pulled away after dropping me off at the hotel, she put her head out of the window, waved, and shouted like a teenage girl: ‘That’s swanky!’ She was 74 and high on life.”Siobhán Ní ChuanaighDublin, Ireland
• David Dimbleby’s vox pop sessions for Panorama, previewed on Radio 4, included a woman from Merthyr who declared she would be voting for Boris Johnson because “he has balls of steel”. Does she have any evidence for this assertion? I think we should be told. Even if true, is testicular composition a good basis for our voting decisions?Cherry WestonWolverhampton
• I’m happy my colleague Stephen Morris has had his violin returned (Report, 4 November). When I left my viola on a train at West Hampstead in 1990 after a long day in the pub, I never saw it again. I hope it gives its current custodian the pleasure that only a viola can.Bill Hawkes Canterbury, Kent
• In 1992, while living in Tokyo, I left my bag on a train at Ginza station at around 1pm. At 10.15pm I happened to get on the same carriage going home, and there it was, untouched. Peter Stewart London
• It’s a shame I was not eligible to be Speaker. I certainly feel like I need to be dragged to work some mornings (MPs vote for Hoyle as new Speaker of the Commons, 5 November).Michael CunninghamWolverhampton

        
          • Join the debate – email 
        
        
          
            guardian.letters@theguardian.com
          
        
      

        
          • Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit 
        
        
          
            gu.com/letters
          
        
      

        
          • Do you have a photo you’d like to share with Guardian readers? 
        
        
          
            Click here
          
        
        
           to upload it and we’ll publish the best submissions in the letters spread of our print edition
        
      
