
# Trophy is handed to hard working schoolgirl in memory of one of Scotland's first heart transplant

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Debbie Hall, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/debbie-hall/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/trophy-handed-hard-working-schoolgirl-20772383)

A schoolgirl has won an award in memory of one of Scotland’s first heart transplant patients in recognition of her hard work and dedication.
St Kentigern’s Academy student Amy Stewart was handed the inaugural Tommy Penman trophy by Whitburn Rotary Club.
Tommy Penman was the thirteenth heart transplant patient in Scotland and gained an amazing 25 years and six months of which his friends and family were much the richer for.

         
      
Tommy joined Whitburn Rotary in 1997 first being President of the club in 2001/02 before serving a second term in 2010/11.
Tommy also received the Paul Harris Fellowship Award for his commitment and service. He worked tirelessly throughout the community on Rotary projects.
Sadly, Tommy passed away aged 73 in February 2018.

         
      
Karen Kane, CDT Teacher at St Kentigern’s Academy, said: “Professionally I was very proud to say that Tommy was my boss and I know he touched the hearts of many pupils and their families as principal teacher of CDT at St Kentigern’s Academy.
“This new trophy was awarded to Amy Stewart for working hard, pushing herself both academically and personally, being involved in whole school activities and generally having exceeded expectations.”
John Strang, Rotary club president, added: “Amy is a very worthy winner, Tommy would have been very proud to hear of Amy’s achievements and we all wish her the very the best for the future.”
