
# Revealed: Why Mbappe Snubbed Real Madrid

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/revealed-why-kylian-mbappe-snubbed-real-madrid/666685)

With it being believed that France superstar Kylian Mbappe chose Paris Saint-Germain over 13-time UEFA Champions League winners Real Madrid two years ago, his main reason for doing so has now reportedly been revealed by someone close to him.

        
          Pique Names Four Real Players He Gets Along With
        
      
After establishing himself as one of the hottest young prospects in Europe at Monaco, Mbappe chose PSG as the club to continue his journey with in 2017.
The talented forward was on Real's radar as well as the French champions', but former Monaco vice-president Vadim Vasilyev has now claimed that the Frenchman was determined to make a name for himself in France before taking his career elsewhere.

        
          Post Selfie’s On Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now
        
      
"Why did he not sign at Real?" he told Telefoot.  
"He told me: 'Vadim, I think it's too early, I'm Parisian, I do not want to leave my country like that, I want to become a great player here.'
"I told him, 'Kylian, you're right'. He wants to win. And of course, the Champions League must be won for a player like that. If he wins it with Paris, it's better.
"He remains the same person, the same Kylian. It's just that he has gained importance, power in the global landscape.
"I know Cristiano Ronaldo quite well, and he always wants to break all records, go further. Kylian is the same."

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
Mbappe, who is just 20 years old, has played 104 matches in Ligue 1 thus far, scoring 67 goals and assisting a further 31 strikes, and has also won six trophies with Monaco and PSG.
