
# T.I. says he escorts daughter to gynecologist every year to make sure

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jessica Chasmar**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/6/ti-says-he-escorts-daughter-to-gynecologist-every-/)

Rapper T.I. revealed in a controversial new interview that he escorts his 18-year-old daughter to the gynecologist every year to determine whether her hymen is “still intact,” apparently to prove she’s still a virgin.
During an interview with Nazanin Mandi and Nadia Moham on the “Ladies Like Us” podcast, T.I. talked about his approach to having the “sex talk” with his eldest daughter, 18-year-old Deyjah Harris.
“Not only have we had the conversation, we have yearly trips to the gynecologist to check her hymen,” the three-time Grammy-winning rapper said, BuzzFeed reported. “Yes, I go with her.”
The show’s co-hosts reacted with disbelief.
“Somebody check on Deyjah, she’s a prisoner!” one said, laughing. “What the [expletive]!”
T.I., who was born Clifford Joseph Harris Jr., went on to recall a story about his daughter’s 16th birthday and how he made her to see a doctor the next day.
“I put a sticky note on the door: ‘Gyno. Tomorrow. 9:30,’” he said.
T.I. said he forces his college-age daughter to share her medical information with him to prove she’s still a virgin, even though he acknowledged that the hymen can be “broken” by something as innocuous as using a tampon.
“So we’ll go and sit down and the doctor comes and talk, and the doctor’s maintaining a high level of professionalism,” he said. “He’s like, ‘Well, you know, sir, I have to, you, know, in order to share information’ — I’m like, ‘Deyjah, they want you to sign this so we can share information. Is there anything you would not want me to know? No? OK, see, Doc? Ain’t no problem.’
“And so then they come and say, ‘Well, I just want you to know that there are other ways besides sex that the hymen can be broken, like bike riding, athletics, horseback riding, and just other forms of athletic physical activity,’” he continued. “So I say, ‘Look, Doc, she don’t ride no horses, she don’t ride no bike, she don’t play no sports, man. Just check the hymen, please, and give me back my results expeditiously.’
“I will say, as of her 18th birthday, her hymen is still intact,” he said proudly.
The comments sparked a wave of backlash on social media, with many commenters accusing the rapper of child abuse. He has not yet responded to the criticism.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
