
# IND vs BAN | Don't see Shakib-less Bangladesh giving India a stern fight, believes Harsha Bhogle

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:48:48+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/ind-vs-ban-dont-see-shakib-less-bangladesh-giving-india-a-stern-fight-says-harsha-bhogle?utm_medium=rss)


        Harsha Bhogle believes that the loss of Shakib Al Hasan is a big blow to the Bangladesh team and he thus feels that they will not be able to provide tough competition to India in the T20I series. He also pointed out other absentees like Tamim Iqbal and Saifuddin that will hamper them even further.
      
Harsha Bhogle, in a blog for Cricbuzz, analyzed the Indian and Bangladesh squad and felt that Bangladesh will not be able to give India a stern fight in the series, especially with the suspension of their talisman Shakib Al Hasan. It is 8-0 as far as head-to-head between India and Bangladesh in the T20s is concerned. Bangladesh would love to end this losing streak by beating India in their own den.
This is the first time that Bangladesh will tour India for a long series that consists of 2 Tests and 3 T20Is. Bhogle believes that with T20 being India's weakest format out of the three, there is a chance for Bangladesh to enter the tour positively as they are playing the T20Is first.
"The fact that you're starting with T20s which is India's weakest format probably allows Bangladesh to enter the country with a high in spite of all that is happening around their cricket in recent weeks. India is number five in T20 rankings. There isn't the same aura around the Indian T20 side that is around the ODI and Test sides," he further added.
India will be playing in the absence of Virat Kohli while Rohit Sharma will be leading the side. The absence of Kohli gives players like KL Rahul, Manish Pandey, Shreyas Iyer, etc. a chance to cement their place in the T20I side. Bhogle speaks about what combination the Indian team management will have for the series.
"Can India see this (Virat's absence) as an opportunity? India has to take a call at number three with both KL Rahul and Manish Pandey with fine form in Vijay Hazare Trophy. Shreyas Iyer wins the spot ant number four in any case," Bhogle said.
Hardik Pandya is recovering from surgery and India has named Shivam Dube. Bhogle believes that India is looking at Dube as a possible like-for-like replacement for Hardik Pandya.
"I am excited about looking at Shivam Dube. Given that he is a sixth bowler, it is a nice way to squeeze him in with Krunal Pandya at one side and Rishabh Pant at the other," he said.
Bhogle also touched on the bad patch of form and the criticism that young Rishabh Pant is going through. He believes that this will be a test of Pant's character and it will be interesting to see how he responds under pressure.
" All eyes will be on Rishabh Pant. here is a young man who is hugely gifted and finds himself in the first major hurdle in his career and I will be very interested to see how India handle him because you can't afford to lose a player of his ability," Harsha said.
In the end, Harsha commented on the different problems that Bangladesh team will face with notable absentees like Tamim Iqbal and Saifuddin along with their best player Shakib. He feels that India are firm favourites in the series and will be too much to handle for a depleted Bangladesh side.
"They will be severely hamstrung missing Tamim Iqbal who could have given them good starts. Losing Shakib Al Hasan is a big blow. Also, Saifuddin's absence as a finisher and support with seam bowling will keep them hamstrung. There is so much going against Bangladesh that I don't see them coming hard at India and providing them stern opposition. If they can do that, it will say a lot about their resolve but I don't see them doing that in this series," he concluded.
