
# The best antivirus deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:47:00+00:00**

Author: **Ashleigh Macro**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/internet/antivirus-deals-3667690/)

Antivirus software is something you probably wish you didn't have to buy, but it's crucial that you run if on your PCs, laptops and even phones. 
The good news is that there are brilliant deals to be found. And we've scoured the internet to find the very best of them to help save you money.
We’ll only share deals if we think they’re good enough to be worth buying, so anything we recommend here will be a great saving on a service we trust.
Among the best deals is 50% off Bitdefender Total Security, which tops our best antivirus chart.

        From: BitdefenderWas: £69.99Now: £29.99  (£40 off) View Deal
      
Complete protection for Windows, macOS, iOS and Android. Bitdefender Total Security 2020, rated Advanced+ (the top score) by AV-Comparatives, gives you excellent anti-malware protection against e-threats across operating systems.

        Get Bitdefender cybersecurity that 500 MILLION users already have and trust.
      

        From: BullGuardWas: £69.95Now: £27.98  (60% off) View Deal
      
BullGuard Premium offers protection for up to 10 devices for 1 year. 

        From: KasperskyWas: £34.99Now: £27.99  (20% off) View Deal
      
Kaspersky's Total Security software for PC, Mac and mobile has 20% off right now.

        From: AvastWas: £169.96Now: £84.99  (£84.97 off) View Deal
      
Save over £80 with this deal which includes Avast Premier, SecureLine, Cleanup Premium and Passwords Premium. 

        From: Trend MicroWas: £49.95Now: £24.95  (50% off) View Deal
      
Trend Micro's online protection for up to three devices is available with 50% off right now for one year.

        From: Panda SecurityWas: £34.99Now: £20.99  (40% off) View Deal
      
This deal covers 1 device for a year.

        From: Avira.comWas: £29.99Now: £26.99  (10% off) View Deal
      
Unless you’ve got some sort of security software installed, your PC, laptop or mobile device is vulnerable. Antivirus software detects, and then prevents, disarms or removes malicious programs and malware, often referred to as ‘viruses’.
But security software is no longer just about countering viruses. Also important (arguably more so) is the security of personal data and protection from ransomware.
Check that the antivirus software you’re buying has ransomware protection built-in, and it’s also worth looking out for the ability to detect malware is so new that it hasn’t yet been analysed by security companies. This may be bolstered by a cloud element or artificial intelligence, which can really help to ensure that even the most sophisticated attacks get nowhere near your devices.
Antivirus discounts are plentiful, often with more than 50% off for your Mac, PC or mobile device. Sometimes these discounts are available on the websites of the antivirus providers themselves in the form of a digital download, but you can also find cheap boxed versions of the software from the likes of Amazon, Argos and Currys PC World.
If you’re a student, be sure to check out Tech Advisor’s Student Beans page. There, you can benefit from massive discounts from some of our favourite antivirus brands for school, college or university.
