
# EastEnders fans spot 'foreshadowing of Keanu's death' ahead of explosive Christmas

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:18:41+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/eastenders-fans-spot-foreshadowing-keanus-20836249)

EastEnders viewers were stunned over recent reports that Keanu Taylor could be killed off this Christmas, ahead of explosive episodes.
Danny Walters has confirmed he is leaving his role on the BBC soap, while it's thought to tie in with the festive drama.
Keanu takes centre stage with the Mitchells as his affair with Sharon Mitchell, and the fact he is her unborn baby's real father, is exposed to the family.
He's currently engaged to his pregnant partner Louise Mitchell, who is the stepdaughter of Sharon.
Amid rumours that both Louise and Sharon will give birth around Christmas time, it's been confirmed the family will be caught up in explosive scenes as the fling comes to light.
 
Now, Thursday's episode of the BBC soap aired scenes that some viewers took as a warning of Keanu's exit, and potential death.
While it may have appeared like a normal scene to most, fans who are aware of what is coming this Christmas and the fact that Keanu is leaving, have wondered if there could be hints to what lies ahead.
Picking apart most scenes he appears in for clues, his latest chat with siblings Keegan and Bernadette have left them suspicious.
Keegan and wife-to-be Tiffany Butcher were discussing his engagement to Louise, and the entire Taylor family's thoughts that Keanu is trapped with the Mitchells.
Keanu suggested he wasn't a pushover, but his siblings admitted, while joking, that they felt their brother had been taken away by the family across the road.
Tiffany joked about the fact Keanu wouldn't have a say in his own wedding, adding: "The only involvement you're gonna get is just turning up."
Bernadette then slightly eerily added: "Mum says they've taken over you and she'll be lucky to ever get to see her grandchild."
Keegan then claimed his sibling was "under the thumb", while Keanu pulled a face which showed his annoyance at the claims, while he also appeared to agree with them feeling trapped with the family.
He also made a comment to Keegan earlier on in the episode, ahead of his potential move to Portugal, hinting he wasn't getting a say in what goes on.
Viewers took to Twitter over the scenes, with one fan believing the episode may have heavily hinted at Keanu's fate.
They said as the scenes played out: "Foreshadowing a Keanu death there?"
Several others like the comment agreeing with the idea that the episode, and Keanu's comments, were heavily hinting at his fate.
So will Keanu manage to escape the Mitchells, or will he pay the price for his affair with his life?

        EastEnders airs Mondays and Fridays at 8pm, and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30pm on BBC One.
      
