
# Bus firm in bid to save Irvine service

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:44:21+00:00**

Author: **Toni Lennox, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/toni-lennox/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/bus-firm-bid-save-irvine-20824017)

Shuttle Buses are stepping in to try and save an Irvine bus service.
The Kilwinning company hope to take over the X11 bus route this December.
The move follows the announcement from Stagecoach West that the X11, which travels from Irvine to Ardrossan via Ayrshire Central Hospital, and the X44 service to Glasgow will be scrapped due to “increasingly low passenger numbers”.
The X11 service will cease on Sunday, December 1, but Shuttle Buses hope to take over the service the next day.
 
The firm have lodged an application with the Traffic Commissioner to take over the service but a 70-day notice period is needed to obtain a licence.
A spokesman for Shuttle Busses explained: “It’s a complicated procedure. The Traffic Commissioner need 70 days notice for another service to take over.
“We don’t have 70 days but we have applied for a dispensation to start earlier and keep the vital service operational.
“We hope to run hourly services from 8.10am to 5.10pm.”
 
A spokesman for The Office of the Traffic Commissioner for Scotland said: “We have received an application from Shuttle Buses Ltd to register a new local bus service, under service number X11, with a starting point of Ardrossan and finishing point of Irvine, via Saltcoats and Irvine Railway Station.
“The application will be referred to the Traffic Commissioner for further consideration and her decision published in due course.”
