
# Fitbit Versa 2 Review: No Surprise Google Wants To Buy It To Replace WearOS

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ben Sin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bensin/2019/11/01/fitbit-versa-2-review-no-surprise-google-wants-to-buy-it-to-replace-wearos/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2789097415&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesTechTwitter)

It’s been more than five years since Google launched WearOS in the hopes of capturing the wearable/smartwatch market in the same way its Android has become the most widely used mobile OS, but for the most part, that plan has been a failure. WearOS was never refined or consistent enough to compete against Apple’s industry-best WearOS. But even within the Android space, Samsung’s TizenOS and Fitbit’s self-titled OS are arguably better too, which makes this week’s Reuters’ report that Google is looking to buy Fitbit seem like a good move on Google’s part.
That’s because Fitbit’s most recent release, the Versa 2, has come the closest so far to making an Android smartwatch that can approximate the feeling of using an Apple Watch. This sounds like a backhanded compliment for those who value design and originality above all else, but I mean it as a compliment. The Apple Watch has been significantly better than any other smartwatch by such a wide margin, that the Versa 2 coming close is a major accomplishment in my book.
This makes the Versa 2 the best Android smartwatch available right now. Yes, the watch works for iPhones, too, but let’s be honest here, if you’re using an iPhone and want a smartwatch you should just get Apple’s own.

        Design and hardware: familiar, but nice
      
When Fitbit first ventured into the smartwatch territory with 2017’s Ionic, it had a unique design featuring sharp corners and an elevated face that made it bulky. It looked unique, but it didn’t fit too comfortably and wasn’t well-received. Fitbit quickly pivoted into the Versa series, which more resembles an Apple Watch.
Whether it’s the square-with-rounded-corners shape to dark grey aluminum finishes, its a clean and visually appealing design, but one that could be accused by Apple fans of not being original. Whatever the case, the Versa 2 fits nicely with a traditional rubber watchstrap with over a dozen notches to fit just about any wrist size.
There’s a single physical button on the left side of the watch, with most in-watch actions triggered by taps and swipes. Around the back is a heart rate sensor, and four pogo pins that charge the device, though unfortunately, the charger is proprietary. I want a future in which all gadgets are charged via USB-C.
The Versa 2 has a 1.4-inch OLED screen that gets bright and vibrant, but the panel is not built as nicely as on the Apple Watch. There’s a sizable bezel around the screen that is clearly visible when the watch display is off; whereas on the Apple Watch, the bezels are thinner and curves into the chassis, giving Apple’s screen a more seamless look. Though, I must mention here, the Versa 2 is priced at US$199, half the price of the Apple Watch Series 5, so the lack of hardware flourishes are excusable.
Fitbit’s watch, likely to keep the price low, also lacks built-in GPS support, so you will need to have a phone with you if you want to track runs. But it does support NFC (Near Field Communication) for digital payments.

        Software: better than WearOS, that’s for sure
      
The FitbitOS that runs here is clean and intuitive to use. Most actions require just a couple of swipes and taps to activate. Fitbit has a long history of making fitness trackers–and I’ve used more than a half dozen of its products–so I can vouch that its steps, heart rate, and sleep tracking are among the most accurate in the industry.
The latter–sleep tracking–is in my opinion the best among consumer wearables, showing me not just how many hours I’ve slept, but sleep cycles and when I was in deep-sleep state. Obviously, unless I visit a medical professional and get hooked up to a machine for a night, there’s no way for me to definitively prove that Fitbit’s sleep tracking is accurate, but going by feel, I believe it is. On sleepless nights in which I’ve tossed and turned often, the Versa 2 correctly shows my lack of deep sleep.
One of the major reasons I love the Apple Watch so much is it allows me to receive and respond to chat notifications via voice dictation or a simple yet intuitive typing system. Like many people in 2019, I conduct most of my communications via chat messages, and the Apple Watch saves me from needing to pull out the phone every single time I need to respond. Android smartwatches, for the most part, have failed this department, either by refusing to take in notifications in a timely manner or have a terrible system which makes responding hard to do.
I’m happy to report the Versa 2 does the best job so far among non-Apple Watch smartwatches. I can indeed receive WhatsApp and WeChat messages in a timely manner, and both the voice dictation and virtual keyboard methods work reasonably well for responding. I can reply with voice, and the Versa 2 can pick up my words at about 85% accuracy, which is pretty good and does allow me to send out simple messages without needing to pull out the phone.
Of course, Apple’s WatchOS is still on another level of intelligence. On an Apple Watch, I can speak entire 15-word sentences and the Watch can pick up with 90-95% accuracy. Also, once I respond to a message on Apple’s Watch, the notification disappears because I have fully interacted with it. The Versa 2, however, keeps these notifications in place. So there’d be days when I check the notification panel to see chat messages from days ago–that I’ve already responded to–still sitting there.
The Fitbit companion app is also slow to sync with the Versa 2 if changes are made and need to be reflected on my wrist. Last week, when I traveled to Chiang Mai, my smartphone automatically adjusted the clock an hour back to match Thailand’s time. But the Versa 2 wouldn’t do it for hours, despite multiple attempts to manually sync the clock. For half a day, the clock on my wrist was off by one hour. Expecting a digital device to recognize that the time has changed and adjust its clock accordingly is something we’ve grown to take for granted on our smartphones, MacBooks and Apple Watches, but on Fitbits and PC computers running Windows, it’s still slow to make that change.
The app ecosystem of the Versa 2 is anemic compared to what’s available for the Apple Watch, though there are some notable names such as Spotify and Starbucks. Controlling music playback on the Versa 2 is relatively simple.

        Endurance king
      
If there’s one area the Versa 2 truly excels without needing me to add the “except for the Apple Watch” qualifier, it’s battery life. The Versa 2 can last six days on a single charge. This is, quite frankly, amazing relative to all other smartwatches on the market. The Apple Watch can go a day and half at most. Samsung’s and TicWatch’s best go three days, tops. To be able to take the Versa 2 with you on five day trips and not need to charge it once is highly convenient.

        Final bits and conclusion
      
Other miscellaneous bits of the Versa 2 worth mentioning is it supports Alexa voice digital assistant, though the number of users in Asia who use Alexa is very low, as it’s mostly a North American thing. From my test, though, Alexa worked okay. It’s nowhere near as responsive or capable as Apple’s Siri or Google’s Assistant, but it was able to tell me the temperature, time, or basic fact check, all from voice. The Versa 2 doesn’t have a speaker, so although you can ask Alexa questions via voice, Alexa cannot respond to you the same way–you have to check the screen.
The Versa 2 is also rated IPX68, meaning it can survive being under water in depths no greater than 50 meters for 30 minutes. This allows the Versa 2 to accompany you for swimming, but not scuba diving.
Priced at US$199, the Versa 2 is a relatively good value–half the price of the entry-level Apple Watch Series 5 and also cheaper than TicWatch’s, Samsung’s, and Huawei’s best smartwatches.
In the Android space, the Versa 2 is the best smartwatch right now and the best choice. For iPhone users, it’s more complicated. iPhone users should consider the Versa 2 if they really dislike the hassle of needing to charge your watch every night, or if the $220 price difference matters.
But back to Android, aka Google. The Fitbit Versa 2 is a good device to continue Google’s wearable dream for now.
