
# Katie Taylor brands KSI vs Logan Paul headlining boxing card a mockery of the sport

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:55:44+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/katie-taylor-brands-ksi-vs-20792680)

World champion Katie Taylor has criticised the decision to allow Youtubers KSI and Logan Paul to headline a boxing card, claiming it makes a "mockery" of the sport.
The social media rivals will clash for a second time a the Staples Center in Los Angeles on November 9 after fighting to a draw last year.
Both KSI and Paul have turned professional for their fight, with the pair granted professional licences by the California State Athletic Commission.
And although excitement surrounding the rematch continues to grow after the first meeting between the pair amassed over one million pay-per-view buys, Taylor admitted she is sceptical of the clash.
"I'm not really too sure to think of the Logan fight," the 2012 Olympic champion told TalkSport . "Sometimes I think it makes a mockery of the sport in that these two YouTubers are headlining a big show.
"It's all about business, I understand that. I'm just interested in the purity of the sport, I love fighters going toe-to-toe together.
"This is our lives, it's something we've been working towards since we were 10 or 11 years of age. We've had amateur competitions, we've stood in the dressing room not knowing who we were going to fight in these competitions.
"We've put our bodies on the line week in, week out for years and years now. I love the fight game, I love the purity of the sport. There's something very noble about going into the trenches against your opponent.
"I just love that side of the sport, I don't like the other side of it."
The card for the November 9 event will also see Billy Joe Saunders defend his WBO world super-middleweight championship against Marcelo Esteban Coceres.
Taylor will be involved in a massive fight of her own when she faces Christina Linardatou on Saturday in a bid to become a two-weight world champion.
After becoming the undisputed world lightweight champion with a close victory over Delfine Persoon in June, Taylor is stepping a weight division as a she looks to claim the WBO super-lightweight title at Manchester Arena.
