
# China donates US$ 400,000 to NRPC

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:15:00+00:00**

Author: **EMG Reporter**

Original: [Eleven Media Group Co., Ltd](https://elevenmyanmar.com/news/china-donates-us-400000-to-nrpc)

 
On behalf of the People’s Republic of China, Mr Sun Guoxiang, the Special Envoy for Asian Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of PRC, donated US$ 400,000 to the National Reconciliation and Peace Center (NRPC) formed by the NLD dominant government of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar. The financial donation to the NRPC came from Mr Sun Guoxiang’s meeting with Union Minister Kyaw Tint Swe of the Ministry of State Counsellor Office in Nay Pyi Taw on November 6.
 During his meeting with Union Minister Kyaw Tint Swe, Mr. Sun Guoxiang said China would donate US$ 400,000 to the NRPC. China would assist Myanmar immediately if the latter had needs.
  Mr. Sun Guoxiang added that on behalf of the central government of the PRC, the current donation to Myanmar was the forth time. The donation marked Paukphaw friendship between the two countries contributing toward the peace process of Myanmar. Chinese government expressed wish that all Myanmar citizens would enjoy fruits of eternal peace the soonest.
Chinese government felt delighted at the news of Myanmar’s peace process developing step by step. Chinese government would assist Myanmar after laying down decisive decisions although its financial support was not very big. In the long run, Chinese government would provide assistance for Myanmar’s peace process through different ways and means. Tell me, please, if you have needs. Our government would assist Myanmar the soonest. Myanmar is a friend on whom China can believe and rely, said Mr. Sun Guoxiang.   
We thank Mr. Sun Guoxiang and party for rendering assistance to Myanmar’s peace process. Long-lasting Paukphaw friendship existing between Myanmar and China is still going strong due to the constant assistance provided by China. We believe that China would continue assisting Myanmar hoping common interests of both countries in the long run, said Kyaw Tint Swe.
Translated and Edited by Win Htut
 
 
 
