
# Xiaomi CC9 Pro gets Hi-Res Audio certification - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:17:26+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/02/xiaomi-cc9-pro-gets-hi-res-audio-certification/)

Xiaomi CC9 Pro gets Hi-Res Audio certification4.3 (86.67%) 6 votes
On November 5th, Xiaomi will release the CC9 Pro flagship in China. As of now, we already know most of the major specifications of this smartphone. However, there are still some minors. According to Xiaomi’s official Weibo handle, the Xiaomi CC9 Pro now has Hi-Res Audio certification. Its ultra-high-resolution even surpasses CD. This smartphone also comes with a 1CC large sound chamber and the overall loudness is twice that of the previous generation.
According to the encyclopedic information, Hi-Res is called High-Resolution Audio and it is a high-quality audio standard defined by Sony and developed by JAS (Japan Audio Association) and CEA (Consumer Electronics Association). The purpose of Hi-Res audio is to define the ultimate standard in musical sound quality. High-resolution music also refers to a music format in which the amount of sound information exceeds the sound quality. For this standard, the sampling rate is greater than 44.1 kHz and the bit depth is greater than 16 bits.
If you have not been following the reports regarding the Xiaomi CC9 Pro, click HERE for a complete review of the major specifications of this device. What do you think about the upcoming CC9 Pro? Let us know in the comments below

        Source
      
