
# Sony's Most Underrated Wireless Headphones Are Just $38 Today

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:14:06+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-sony-wh-ch510-wi-xb400-headphones-sale-deal.html)

The underrated Sony WH-CH510 and WI-XB400 wireless headphones are both on sale today over at Amazon. These are both down to just $38, which makes them an incredible steal. Normally, these would sell for $60, but today you are saving 37-percent.
These are part of Amazon's Gold Box Deal of the Day, so that these will not be at this price for long. And will expire at midnight PST tonight. So you'd better hurry if you want a pair.
The Sony WH-CH510 are a pair of on-ear headphones from Sony. It's from its mid-range lineup, but the CH line has actually been very impressive, especially for its price point, in the past few years. There's 30mm drivers inside, which will offer up some really great sound quality, along with some deep bass. Sony has kept NFC in these headphones, making it easier to pair with your smartphone. And finally, there is about 35 hours of playback on a single charge with the WH-CH510. That is pretty impressive, to say the least.
Advertisement
Unfortunately, the Sony WH-CH510 are not coming with noise cancellation or ambient sound, that's the only thing really missing from this, when compared to Sony's other more expensive headphones.
Now, the Sony WI-XB400, unlike the WH-CH510, have a ton of bass. And that's because it is in the EXTRA BASS lineup. So you're looking at a ton of bass, almost room shaking bass. These are wireless earbuds that actually sound really good. And offer around 15 hours of battery life. which isn't bad at all. There are 12mm drivers in each earbud, giving you some crisp mids and highs and some deep bass. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, these charge with USB-C. Meaning you can use the same charging cable for your phone and headphones.
You can pick up the Sony WH-CH510 and the WI-XB400 from this Amazon sale by clicking here.
Advertisement

        Sony Headphones Sale - Amazon
      
