
# Here’s how to get two Domino's pizzas for just £5

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:36:29+00:00**

Author: **Linda Howard**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/food-drink/heres-how-two-dominos-pizzas-20815502)

Tuesday is turning out to be the tastiest day of the week when it comes to food deals.
Not only can you get a McDonald’s Big Mac for just 99p today when you order through the app, but you can also claim £15 cashback on any takeaway purchased through Just Eat via money-saving website, TopCashback here .
But one of the most popular deals just got even better.
Domino’s Two for Tuesday offer is a favourite choice with foodie fans and means pizza lovers can get two pizzas for as little as £19.99 for the entire day.
And now a new online deal is giving shoppers an even bigger discount - two pizzas for as little as £4.99.
The deal is available through TopCashback , which offers users money back when they sign up and order items via the website .
This includes takeaways and it is now offering new members £15 cashback when they order from Domino's.
 
On a Tuesday, this means along with the buy two for the price of one pizza at Domino’s, you can also get £15 back off your bill.
The deal is only available to new members that sign up to TopCashback - which is free, easy and takes less than two minutes.
You can sign up to TopCashback here and once you’re done, simply follow the link to the Domino’s page and order as normal.
Once the order has been completed, TopCashback will credit £15 into your account within 14 days.
Domino's Two for Tuesdays deal includes two for one on medium or large pizzas and they include popular choices such as Texas BBQ, the Cheeseburger and a New York Hotdog pizza.
The £15 cashback offer works on any Domino’s spend as long as it’s over £19.99 - so you don’t have to wait until Tuesday to use it.

        The small print
      
To read the full terms and condition, click here .
