
# Winning: Issa Rae Stars in Steamy New Romance Film With LaKeith Stanfield and Is Producing New Show On Female Rap Group

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:00:06+00:00**

Author: **Daryl Nelson**

Original: [Atlanta Black Star](https://atlantablackstar.com/2019/11/01/winning-issa-rae-stars-in-steamy-new-romance-film-with-lakeith-stanfield-and-is-producing-new-show-on-female-rap-group/)

Issa Rae has a new show coming to HBO Max called “Rap Sh–,” which is now just the working title.
As described by Deadline, the 30-minute series will surround a female rap group from outside of Miami who are trying to break into the music business.
Rae is writing the script for the pilot, and she’ll executive produce the series with Montrel McKay under Issa Rae Productions. Dave Becky and Jonathan Berry will be executive producers as well through their company 3 Arts Entertainment.
Rae certainly has a solid relationship with HBO executives since her show “Insecure” has had three successful seasons under its belt. And “A Black Lady Sketch Show,” which she executive produces, has been picked up for a second season.
The 34-year-old will also be starring in the romantic comedy “The Lovebirds” on the big screen with actor Kumail Nanjiani next year.
Rae and Nanjiani play a couple who become involved in a murder mystery at the same time they’re about to break up. The film is slated to hit theaters in April 2020.
Plus, Rae will co-star in the romantic film “The Photograph” with LaKeith Stanfield, and the trailer was just released on Friday, Nov. 1.
Rae plays Mae Morton, the daughter of Christina Eames, a famous photographer who suddenly passed away. Stanfield plays journalist Michael Block, who’s covering Eames’ life, and along the way he and Rae’s character fall for each other. The film also stars Lil Rel Howery and “Insecure” actor Y’lan Noel.
“The Photograph” will be in theaters on Valentine’s Day 2020, and there hasn’t been a release date set for “Rap Sh–” yet.
You can see the trailer for “The Photograph” below.
