
# How to watch the 2019 League of Legends World Championship Semifinals: schedule and stream

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:53:44+00:00**

Author: **Austen Goslin**

Original: [Rift Herald](https://www.riftherald.com/2019/11/1/20944455/2019-league-of-legends-world-championship-semifinals-schedule)

The League of Legends 2019 semifinals match ups are set, and it’s time to see which team will make it to the Finals. We already know that one Chinese team will be there for sure, but which one, and who they will face is anyone’s guess.
The first match of the weekend will be an LPL contest as Invictus Gaming take on FunPlus Phoenix. While FunPlus managed to take home the trophy during LPL Summer just a few months ago, IG once again looks like one of the best teams in the world. If IG continue to play the way it has throughout the tournament, it may have a chance at repeating as World Champions.
Meanwhile, in the second semifinal match, SK telecom T1 will play G2 Esports. G2 entered Worlds as one of the favorites to win the tournament, but with every other western team knocked out, the level of competition it was facing throughout the season is starting to seem a little suspect. SKT, on the other hand, have been one of the best teams in the tournament and it would take an impressive G2 performance to knock SKT out.
Each of the semifinal matches for the League of Legends 2019 World Championship will be live on Riot’s Youtube and Twitch channels. If you want to claim missions rewards for watching the matches you’ll need to log in and watch on watch.lolesports.com, where you’ll also be able to access Pro View if you subscribe.

        Saturday, Nov. 2
      
Invictus Gaming vs FunPlus Phoenix — 7 a.m. ET

        Sunday, Nov. 3
      
SK telecom T1 vs G2 Esports — 6 a.m. ET
