
# Sadio Mane admits to Mohamed Salah disagreements at Liverpool

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:29:32+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/sadio-mane-admits-mohamed-salah-20816539)

Sadio Mane admits that he hasn't always seen eye-to-eye with Mohamed Salah at Liverpool , but says that the pair let their football do the talking.
The relationship between Liverpool's two African forwards has been under the microscope ever since Mane's angry reaction to not receiving a pass from Salah when he was in a good position towards the end of Liverpool's 3-0 win at Burnley at the end of August.
Salah opted to shoot instead, and after Mane was substituted shortly after the incident, he was seen angrily shouting to both manager Jurgen Klopp and captain Jordan Henderson on the Turf Moor bench.
Both players, some of their teammates and Klopp have since all explained away the incident as nothing to be overly concerned about, but it did spark suggestions of a rivalry between the pair.
Mane and Salah shared the Premier League Golden Boot along with Arsenal's Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang last season, while Liverpool's Champions League success has seen them vying for various personal awards, as well as Africa's Player of the Year.
But the Senegalese star hailed the Egyptian in an interview with France Football , while also admitting they haven't always been on the same page as each other.
“He’s a crazy goalscorer and an exceptional player who can do everything," said Mane, who has scored eight goals this season going into Tuesday's Champions League clash with Genk at Anfield, the same amount as Salah.
“We have sometimes had our disagreements, but it remains a great pleasure to play beside him because I have the feeling we speak the same type of football.”
Mane also praised the influence of Klopp, who he says is a father figure to the squad.
“His secret, I think, is to be the team’s dad," he said. "Between us, everything clicked straight away.
“We all love him like a father and we fear him like one too.
“He takes up a lot of space in my life, and not just in football. He’s great as a person.
“I trust him blindly, like most of the dressing room, I think.”
