
# Teams need to focus on running to build for T20 World Cup: Dean Jones

Published at: **2019-11-02T03:46:49+00:00**

Author: **Arani Basu**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/teams-need-to-focus-on-running-to-build-for-t20-world-cup-dean-jones/articleshow/71861738.cms)

NEW DELHI: With the T20 World Cup just about a year away, every series is being seen as a build-up to the marquee tournament. Even a couple of days ahead of the T20I series against Bangladesh, the Indian team management has been vocal about trying out as many players as possible to find the right combination.
While everyone's looking at the skill sets of players, it's also time to get the strategies keeping the conditions in Australia in mind. Big outfield is one of the big factors that impacts a game. David Warner recently pointed out the difference between playing IPL and T20 cricket in Australia.
"Australia bowled a lot of short stuff during the 2015 World Cup. It's very hard to hook it for six because those are very big grounds. Fitness is imperative. I think Bairstow and Warner - for Hyderabad in IPL - are the best partnership of running in T20 cricket. They have the strength to hit fours and sixes but still run the ones and twos. Bowlers hate it," former Australia batsman Dean Jones told TOI.
"Fortunately, India will be playing Australia in October just before the T20 World Cup. But you need to do a lot of planning. The lengths have to change and the roles need to be given out soon," Jones added.
Jones, who has been a part of the Bangladesh Premier League in the past, also feels Shakib Al Hasan's absence from cricket will help Bangladesh focus on their combination. "I know the organizational problems with the BPL. At the same time, Shakib will be ready to play the T20 World Cup. He will be available. But now it's the time to see if Mahmudullah can do the job. It will need good planning by selectors," he said.
"In 1987 World Cup, Australia were ranked the worst team in the competition. We lost eight games before the World Cup. Days before the tournament, we got the players to know what their roles are. That starts now," he reckoned.
