
# Rangers icon Fernando Ricksen's wife launches clothing line to 'keep his spirit alive'

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:05:11+00:00**

Author: **Nicholas Keyden, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/nicholas-keyden/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/rangers-icon-fernando-ricksens-wife-20809948)

The wife of tragic Rangers legend Fernando Ricksen has a new clothing line launched in memory of her husband to 'keep his spirit alive'.
Mum-of-one Veronika announced the limited edition collection designed alongside Gers clothing brand The Bears Den on Instagram this afternoon.
The range includes special t-shirts similar to those worn by Fernando's family and close friends at his funeral after he lost a brave six-year battle with Motor Neurone Disease at an Airdrie hospice on September 18.
Former team-mates Michael Mols and Nacho Novo were among those seen wearing the tops at the September 25 service in Glasgow's west end.
The tops are emblazoned with a picture of the late midfielder and the words 'Fernando, Simply the best', with the 43-year-old's squad number, 2, printed on the back and chest.
Fans can also get their hands on similarly designed hoodies and onsies, which come in all sizes for men, women and children.
 
Announcing the news to her Instagram followers, Veronika, 33, said: "Hi guys, I wanted to keep spirits of my husband alive.
"In memory of Fernando, me and www.thebearsden.co.uk are making a limited collection of t-shirts and  hoodies.
"It's an exclusive range available for women, men and children, in all sizes. Please help me to do it."
The Bears Den also posted: "Bursting with pride.. so so happy and proud to keep Fernando's spirit alive."
It comes after we revealed heartbroken Veronika finds everyday more difficult without her beloved husband back in October.
She posted an emotional tribute video of pictures of the couple in happier times in honour of her late partner.
It came two weeks after thousands of Light Blues fans lined the streets of Glasgow on the day of his funeral .
As the hearse carrying the Dutchman’s coffin was taken past  Ibrox , crowds chanted, “There’s only one Fernando Ricksen”.
Speaking in the aftermath of his funeral at Glasgow's Wellington Church Veronika said she tells their daughter Isabella how her 'Pappy is a star in the sky'.
She said: “We’ve told her he’s a star now.
"Every evening, we go outside and I pick the brightest star and say, ‘Look, Isabella, Pappy is looking down at you.’ Once she said she could see his face and it broke my heart.
“She will grow up without a dad and that hurts. It’s so hard. She’s still so little."
You can view the range, which starts at £22.95, here .
