
# Greg Inglis lifts STRC crown at Kingdom Stages rally

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:43:58+00:00**

Author: **Al Suttie**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/motor-sports/greg-inglis-lifts-strc-crown-20826892)

IT WAS winner takes all between the title contenders at the Kingdom Stages rally last weekend.
The event at Crail in Fife was the decider for the 2019 Cobble Shop Scottish Tarmack Rally Championship (STRC) and it came down to a fight between Greg Inglis and Kyle Adam.
In the end, it was Inglis in his Lotus Exige who came out on top in the championship, though victory in the rain-lashed event went to Andrew Kirkaldy in his Ford Escort Mk2.
At the start of the rally, Inglis and Adam were tied on points and that’s how they finished as both won their respective classes. However, Greg and Ian Parker won the championship by finishing third, with Adam just behind in fourth.
It was a hard-fought event and Kirkaldy was being pushed hard by Alistair Inglis in another Lotus. However, a huge spin on standing water landed the Lotus on a barrier and ended Inglis’ rally.
This left the way clear for Kirkaldy and co-driver Peter Carstairs to take first and a hard-charging Joe McKeand and Callum Shanks to finish second.
Even with positions settled by the end of the last stage, there was a final drama for Kyle Adam and co-driver Fiona Moir. As the pair came to the finish line, their Ford Escort suffered an electrical failure that caused it to spin and they crossed the line backwards.
However, Fiona had to use all her strength to push the car to the time control as no outside assistance is allowed till the car had clocked out. It was worth the effort, however, as Fiona is now the 2019 Navigators Champion.
   
A thrilled Greg said: “I’m over the moon and couldn’t have done it without the whole team. Ian was phenomenal again as navigator and hats off to everyone involved with the championship.”
As one rally season ended, another started for Ashleigh Morris as she lined up for the first round of the MSN Circuit Rally Championship at Oulton Park. It was a tricky start in wet conditions for Ashleigh and co-driver Jamie Mactavish in their Ford Fiesta R2.
Ashleigh said: “A few mistakes from me meant we lost time on the early stages, but we made up time and finished fourth in class, just three seconds off the podium. We can’t wait for the next round in two weeks.”
At Snetterton, the rain held off for the last Time Attack rounds of 2019. Ian Pitman, from Kelso, lifted the Club 4WD trophy in his Subaru Impreza at the unusual extra event run at night.
Aberdeen’s Andrew Barbour won in the Pro Extreme 4WD class in his Mitsubishi Evo, while Stirling’s Ben Robinson finished second in the overall championship in his Noble M12.
On two wheels, John McPhee suffered disappointment when he was hit by another rider while sitting comfortably at the head of the Moto3 race at Sepang in Malaysia.
With a damaged bike, John nursed it across the line in seventh to retain his fifth place position in the title fight. There’s one race to go in two weeks at Valencia, Spain.
This weekend sees the Jim Clark Rally back in spectacular fashion over two days of stages around Duns in the Scottish Borders. More than 100 cars will take the start and local hero David Bogie is in contention alongside Michael Binnie, Donnie MacDonald and Garry Pearson.
The Saltire Classic Rally gets under way on Sunday and it takes place around Pitlochry. Meanwhile, Jonny Adam will be enjoying a warmer climate in his Aston Martin Vantage GTE as the FIA World Endurance Championship heads to Shanghai.
