
# Huawei MatePad Pro is TENAA certified - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:26:48+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/07/huawei-matepad-pro-is-tenaa-certified/)

Rate this post
Renders of an upcoming premium Huawei tablet surfaced on the net back in October. The device got the look of an iPad Pro, though this time with a dual-lens back camera and a hole punch display housing a front-facing camera. The upcoming tablet even has a familiar name – the Huawei MatePad Pro, and from all indications, the device might be launching pretty soon.
Soon after Huawei secured approval from 3C for the MatePad, another Chinese regulator –TENAA has now approved the device for sale in the country. TENAA has yet to reveal official renders, and even the device’s full specs sheet, however, it does reveal it will come in two variants. There is the Wi-Fi variant bearing the MRX-W09 and MRX-W19 model numbers and a 4G LTE variant with the MRX-AL09 and MRX-AL19 model numbers. Apparently, the ultra-fast 5G connectivity isn’t coming to Huawei’s tablet lineup yet.
Unofficial renders of the Huawei MatePad Pro floating around suggest it has a similar design with the Apple iPad Pro. It gets a magnetic keyboard case like Apple’s Smart Keyboard Folio and a redesigned stylus. Designwise, the Huawei MatePad Pro has a punch hole design for the front camera, though the bezel seems big enough to take a front camera. On the flip side, it gets dual rear cameras, though with no visible fingerprint scanner. So, perhaps, the device will get an in-screen fingerprint scanner.
The device will come with a large battery capacity with the same 40W fast charging as the Mate 30. Reports have it the MatePad Pro will pack a 2560 x 1440 resolution display alongside the Kirin 990 SoC and up to 8GB of RAM.
These are only rumored specs, we hope TENNA gives us an updated specs page soon. As for the launch date, the brand hasn’t schedule any event yet, and it doesn’t seem the device will go official unnoticed.
