
# Donald Trump Jr. Slammed For Outing Alleged Whistleblower, As Major News Outlets Decline To Publish Name

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rachel Sandler**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/rachelsandler/2019/11/06/donald-trump-jr-slammed-for-outing-alleged-whistleblower-as-major-news-outlets-decline-to-publish-name/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_term=Valerie/)

Topline: Some right-wing news outlets and conservative circles in Washington—including Donald Trump Jr.—are actively trying to spread the identity of the alleged impeachment whistleblower, while major news outlets decline to publish the name amid concerns for the whistleblower’s safety.
Key background: While RealClearPolitics is the only nonpartisan outlet to reveal the name of the whistleblower, the New York Times in September published some details about him, including the fact that he is a male CIA officer who was detailed to work at the White House. Since then, other outlets have corroborated the New York Times but have not published additional details.
Meanwhile, Trump himself and some members of Congress, including senators Rand Paul and Lindsey Graham, have called on the whistleblower’s identity to be revealed, with Graham, according to the Associated Press, saying Wednesday that, “Nobody should be prosecuted based on an anonymous accusation.” Earlier this month, Trump called the whistleblower a “spy” working to undermine his administration.
Chief critics: The whistleblower’s lawyer, Andrew Bakaj, said in a statement that he could neither confirm nor deny the whistleblower’s identity, and that anyone publishing the name of the suspected whistleblower “puts that individual and their family at risk of serious harm.”
News peg: House Democrats have launched an impeachment inquiry into Trump’s actions in response to a phone call between Trump and Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelensky. On the July call, Trump directed Zelensky to investigate Joe Biden and his son Hunter for corruption. Trump and Rudy Giuliani claim that then-vice president Biden pushed for the resignation of Ukraine’s top prosecutor in an effort to quash an investigation into Burisma Holdings, where Hunter Biden had a board seat.
