
# Disney+ will launch with musicals and documentaries galore

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Tarantola**

Original: [Engadget](https://www.engadget.com/2019/11/06/disney-plus-launch-musicals-documentaries-jeff-goldblum/)

When Disney's new streaming service launches next week, it won't just be opening the vault doors to its massive Walt Disney Studios, Marvel, Lucasfilm, Pixar and National Geographic archives. Disney+ will also launch with 10 new, original films and more than 25 original series. Here are some of the shows we're most excited to watch.
Fans of High School Musical will have plenty to sing along to with Encore!, in which host Kristen Bell tasks former musical cast members with recreating their high school production, and High School Musical: The Musical: The Series (no seriously, that's what it's called) in which students attending the school where the original movie was filmed eagerly await their own real-life high school musical.
But if the thought of voluntarily watching a chorus line of pubescents and glee club alumni belt out show tunes sounds like your own personal hell, well get in line buddy, I was here first. Luckily, Disney+ will offer a wide range of more intellectual and explanatory fare as well.
For the kids, Disney+ has Forky Asks a Question. This 10-part series of 3-minute shorts follows Forky, the misshapen semi-sentient spork from Toy Story 4, as he ponders life's deepest questions like, "what is money" and "what is a friend?" But he's not alone in his musings, other characters from Andy's toy chest, including Hamm (voiced by John Ratzengerber), are around to help Forky arrive at the answers he so desperately needs.
Forky himself is just as delightfully demented as you remember from the movie (and is once again voiced by Tony Hale) so if your ankle biters are fans of the film, this series will provide them with minutes upon minutes of entertainment. New episodes of Forky Asks a Question arrive on Fridays.
