
# Babusapalya residents fill up pothole in 45 mns

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Reya Mehrotra**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/babusapalya-residents-fill-up-pothole-in-45-mns/articleshow/71844672.cms)

Pothole appeared after Bescom dug up road some months ago It took 45 minutes for five residents living in Babusapalya (Ward 25) to fill up a crater- sized pothole. Some gravel, cement and a genuine effort was enough to finish the job. Sajiv S, a resident of Sethna Power Tower in Babusapalya who was part of the five-member team said, “The pothole had appeared when the road was dug up by Bescom for some work around 6-8 months ago. We recently lodged a complaint on the BBMP Sahaaya app but got no response. “The situation is only turning worse with more rainfall as the stretch had become muddy.” The residents then came together and decided to do the job themselves. Materials like gravel and cement were collected from their apartment premises and at night, after work, they gathered and filled the pothole with cement. A barricade was also installed after the cement was poured. Residents said that the pothole has caused some serious two-wheeler accidents. Motorists often topple when passing through the stretch. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has fixed November 10 as the deadline for filling up all the potholes across the city. However, residents are not hopeful and have said that like in the past, this time too, the promise will go unfulfilled. BBMP Commissioner BH Anil Kumar recently held a meeting with all the officials to ensure that the pothole filling task is completed by the deadline. The BBMP has also said that the roads which were dug up for the Cauvery water pipeline work by the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will be repaired soon. The BWSSB has allocated Rs 100 crore for the project.
