
# Black Friday 2019 Ads Preview: Best Buy Vs Walmart Best Deals

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/11/01/black-friday-2019-ads-preview-best-buy-vs-walmart-best-deals-apple-iphone-samsung-galaxy-xbox-ps4-tv-sales/)

Black Friday 2019 is fast approaching. The first major ad scan has leaked and deals are now live from Amazon, from Best Buy and from Walmart. But these latter two behemoths are just warming up and now we know more it is time to square them up. Note: you can find my dedicated Black Friday 2019 guides for Walmart (here), Target (here), Best Buy (here), Costco (here), Amazon (here), Apple (here) and Samsung (here). For daily updates, bookmark my page. 

        Amazon Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
Walmart’s early deals give some details away (Best Buy’s deals do not), but the good news is both stores are creatures of habit, so the best place to learn about their biggest holiday season sales is to look at their doorbusters last year:

        Where Best Buy Black Friday Beat Walmart Black Friday 
      

        Where Walmart Black Friday Beat Best Buy Black Friday 
      

        Walmart Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        What To Expect From Walmart Black Friday 2019 and Target Black Friday 2019 
      
As you can see, both retailers are very evenly matched. So where will the differences be?
Apple iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max - Expect Walmart to again deliver the biggest savings here, it has sewn up iPhone deals for the last few Black Fridays and I think it will hit the $300 gift card option again with Best Buy getting no closer than $150/200 of direct savings. 
Samsung Galaxy S10, S10+, Note 10, Note 10+ - Best Buy should win this as its $300 of direct savings will trump Walmart’s matching amount in a gift card. Best Buy has won out for several years on Samsung with this tactic and I think Walmart is happy to concede if it takes the top spot for iPhones. 
Google Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL - Best Buy may increase its direct savings to $250-300 this year as Google attempts to distract users from the bad press over the smaller Pixel 4’s battery life (yes it’s bad, go for the XL). Walmart may have Pixel sales for the first time now Google is selling on all major carriers, but don’t bet on it. 
Microsoft Xbox One X Bundle - Price cuts should mean bigger savings this year and I expect Best Buy to deliver more bundles of up to circa $130 savings while Walmart will have similar savings on the standalone console. The winner here depends on the quality of Best Buy’s bundles. But watch out for Target’s additional REDcard discounts. 
Sony PlayStation 4 Bundles - Target looks set to have the killer PS4 Pro deal thanks to additional gift cards, and I expect a score draw from Best Buy and Walmart with circa $125 savings. Kohl’s may prove to be a dark horse here thanks to Kohls Cash. 

        Best Buy Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
 TVs - I expect Walmart to deliver the best 65-inch deal but Best Buy will again have a wider selection of 4K UHD TV deals and should win in the budget sector with a strong brand. Amazon will have the cheapest HD TV deals. 
Black Friday Opening Times - Walmart’s big sale will open at 6 pm on Thanksgiving and stay open all night, but Best Buy stores will close on the night of Thanksgiving before reopening on Black Friday at 8 am. Online shopping will continue throughout the night and all weekend. 
Free Shipping - Best Buy has upgraded its Black Friday shipping with killer two day delivery on most items with no minimum. Don’t expect Walmart to match this, the $35 minimum for fast shipping is here to stay. 
Cyber Monday Ad Scans and Deals - Walmart has no Cyber Monday ad scan but it will tease some deals on November 30 and carry forward many of its biggest Black Friday offers though iPhone deals don’t usually return. Best Buy won’t release its Cyber Monday deals until after Black Friday, but it will deliver an ad scan. Remember to watch Target on Cyber Monday because of its additional savings for REDcard owners. 
___

        More Of My Black Friday Coverage On Forbes
      
