
# Report: Mourinho Meets With Arsenal Chief

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:58:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/report-jose-mourinho-meets-with-arsenal-chief/666625)

With pressure mounting on Unai Emery at Arsenal, former Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho reportedly met with the Gunners head of football earlier this week.

        
          Read: Arsenal's Stance On Mourinho Revealed?
        
      
The Gunners' struggles continued on Saturday afternoon after being held to a 1-1 draw by Wolverhampton Wanderers, although the Gunners only sit three points adrift of the top four.
Mourinho's name has been thrown into the hat as a possible replacement for Emery, with the Portuguese having been out of work since December after his departure at Old Trafford.
According to the Times, Mourinho had dinner with Arsenal chief Raul Sanllehi this week as the club consider replacing Emery following a string of poor results.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
It is believed that the Portugese tactician impressed Sanllehi with his plans for the Gunners squad.
The report goes on to claim that the Spaniard has a couple games left to save his status, but the draw with Wolves on Saturday certainly upped the pressure, with supporters expressing their unhapiness at the full-time whistle.
The Gunners manager was asked if he felt under pressure recently, to which he replied,"I am very demanding myself and I feel my responsibility to work every time to come back with a better result in the next matches."

        
          Read: Arsenal Star Dropped After Apology To Supporters
        
      
