
# Neymar Punishment For Slapping Fan Revealed

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:32:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/neymar-punishment-for-slapping-fan-revealed/666753)

After Brazilian superstar Neymar sensationally found himself in hot water for slapping a rival club's fan, the Paris Saint-Germain forward's punishment has now been revealed.

        
          Read: Cristiano Jr. Following In CR7's Footsteps
        
      
PSG suffered a shock defeat to Stade Rennais in last season's French Cup final, and the proceedings were marred when Neymar was involved in a post-match altercation with a rival supporter.
After seemingly being taunted by a fan while making his way up some stairs to collect his silver medal, Neymar responded by striking the individual in the face.
The incident was caught on camera and was referred to French criminal prosecutors, who have now revealed what punishment the Brazil international will face for his actions.

        Click through the gallery below to see some footballers who were arrested:
      
According to AFP, the prosecution has decided to issue Neymar with a written warning, and have deemed that no further action is warranted in the circumstances.
The fan's lawyer has since hit out at the decision, claiming that it is unacceptable and justifies the use of violence.
"It's a justification of violence," lawyer Philippe Ohayon said.
"If that had been a fan hitting a player, he would have been brought to justice and maybe even received a custodial sentence."

        
          Read: 'Neymar Has To Be Like Ronaldinho & Leave PSG'
        
      
Neymar served a three-match suspension following the incident, and has since returned to the playing field, although he is currently sidelined by a hamstring injury he sustained on international duty.
