
# Government launches investment blueprint and capacity building county handbook

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:15:33+00:00**

Author: **CORRESPONDENT**

Original: [Capital Business](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/business/2019/11/government-launches-investment-blueprint-and-capacity-building-county-handbook/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 7 – The government has launched the Kenya Investment Policy and the County Investment Handbook.  
      
Speaking during the unveiling of the policy, Industry, Trade & Cooperatives Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya described the handbook as a comprehensive and harmonized policy to guide attraction, facilitation and retention of private investment both at the national and county levels.
ADVERTISEMENT
“The handbook details establishment of County Investment Units (CIUs) to spearhead investments at the grassroots, build capacities for counties and promote the devolved units as viable investment destinations,” he said.
The policy is guided by seven core principles, which emphasize the need for openness and transparency, inclusivity and sustainable development.
The County Investment Handbook was developed to build capacity of county governments in effective investment promotion and facilitation.
It is aimed at helping county structures dealing with investors in establishing priorities and lobbying for proper technical, financial and other forms of support from county and national stakeholders.
“Well thought-out investments are critical to achieve the Big 4 Agenda and help Kenya to achieve industrial transformation at the county level and expand the contribution from manufacturing to national wealth as targeted in vision 2030,” he added.
The Handbook was prepared with technical support of the World Bank Group (WBG), United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID) and The Netherlands Government.
