
# Corbyn Says Brexit Debate ‘Over’, Vows Not to Attack Johnson After UK PM Calls Him a 'Fossil'

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:39:00+00:00**

Author: **by Oleg Burunov**

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/europe/201911041077218984-jeremy-corbyn-boris-johnson-brexit-debate/)


        Last month, Jeremy Corbyn confirmed that he would “immediately legislate” for a second referendum on the Brexit withdrawal agreement in the event that his Labour Party wins power in an upcoming election in the UK.
      
In an interview with The Guardian on Sunday, UK Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn stated that he had unilaterally made a decision to support London’s drive to hold the 12 December general election, adding that he told his shadow cabinet dissenters that discussions on Brexit are over.
Corbyn also said that his unilateral decision to back UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s election plan flew in the face of opposition from several colleagues, including Labour’s chief whip Nick Brown.
According to him, the election is all about “the future of this country, the environment and the cohesion of society”.
“We can’t go on with austerity, poverty, inequality and injustice. We need a government that’s committed to reversing that. And we are the ones to do that,” Corbyn underscored, adding that he will defy possible attacks on him by Johnson supporters.
Corbyn also made it clear that he will refrain from launching attacks on Johnson because “doing personal doesn’t work”.
The interview came as Johnson urged Britons to vote for Conservative during the forthcoming elections and get Brexit done or otherwise get Jeremy Corbyn.
Johnson claimed that Corbyn offers an outdated vision for Britain, described the Labour leader as a “fossil” coming from “the Marianas Trench of politics”.
Earlier, the Labour Party officially launched its campaign for the 12 December general election, with Corbyn lambasting the US President and the current British government's relationship with him and claiming that “Donald Trump is trying to interfere in Britain’s election to get his friend Boris Johnson elected”.
The remarks came after Corbyn confirmed last month his push for a second referendum, also known as a “people’s vote”, saying that “after three years of Tory failure, it’s time to take the decision out of the hands of politicians and let the people have the final say”.
The comments come amid reports of serious splits within the Labour Party leadership over the issue of Brexit and a General Election.
Shadow Foreign Secretary Emily Thornberry, for her part, expressed "concerns" over the election becoming a "quasi-referendum, that it would be all about in or out, what kind of deal”, which is why she said she “can see the sense in trying to have a referendum first”.
Labour's Deputy Leader Tom Watson insists that the party should support a second referendum before a General Election, in contrast to Labour's official position.
The snap general election was approved by the UK Parliament's House of Commons early last week, a day after Brussels approved another deadline extension for the UK, giving the country until 31 January 2020 to ratify the Brexit deal negotiated by Johnson.
