
# Kendall Jenner poses on top of a white horse in lavish fairy Halloween costume

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:08:59+00:00**

Author: **Brogan-Leigh Hurst**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kendall-jenner-poses-top-white-20792841)

Kendall Jenner looked incredible as she posed with two white horses while glad in a gold fairy costume for Halloween .
The 23-year-old Keeping Up With The Kardashians star oozed confidence as she showed off her model poses in the lavish forest fairy ensemble.
She completed her look with huge glittery wings and an intricate gold head piece which complimented her flawlessly structured face.
Her stunning dress was made entirely from gold feathers, showing off her slender frame.
Sharing the photo with her 117million followers, she wrote: "forest fairy and friends" as she posed next to the white horses.
But the reality star took her outfit to the next level as she posed on top of one of the ice white stallions.
As usual, her sisters were the first to gush over the snap.
Khloe Kardashian was first to comment, writing: "Like who are you", followed by Kim Kardashian who penned: "Omg on the horse!!!! So beautiful!!"
Fans were going wild, sharing they that were "obsessed" by Kendall's amazing choice of fancy dress.
But others were more concerned for the horse than what Kendall was wearing.
One snapped: "Stop using animals!!! So stupid".
Another added: "Imagine caring about a holiday so much you spend $10k+ to have white horses for an instagram photo."
While a third said: "Let me dig my bony knees into your spine".

        
          Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
        
      
