
# Amazon Alexa may have recorded moment woman was killed during row with boyfriend

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:33:51+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Wilkes, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/amazon-alexa-recorded-moment-woman-20790657)

Police believe two Amazon Alexa smart speaker devices may have captured audio of the moment a man killed his girlfriend.
Officers in Hallandale Beach in Florida, US, told local media they had received recordings from Amazon after beginning an investigation into Adam Reechard Crespo.
The 43-year-old has been charged with murder after the death of 32-year-old Silvia Galva.
The NYPost reports Crespo told police he tried to drag Galva off his bed during an argument on July 12, in which he claims she took hold of a spear which had a 12-inch blade.
Crespo claims he heard the spear snap as he pulled her off the bed before turning around and realising the blade was in his girlfriend's chest.
The NYPost reports he told police that he pulled the blade out as he hoped his girlfriend's wounds were "not too bad".
Police wrote a probable cause statement to obtain a warrant to search the address and demand the recordings from Amazon. This was a month after the alleged incident.
They said: "It is believed that evidence of crimes, audio recordings capturing the attack on victim Silvia Crespo that occurred in the main bedroom…may be found on the server maintained by or for Amazon.”
Police have not made clear what evidence may be contained in the data recorded by two Alexa devices between  July 11 and July 12.
Amazon spokesperson Leigh Nakanishi told the South Florida Sun-Sentinel : “No audio is stored or sent to the cloud unless the device detects the wake word.”
Amazon's Alexa devices do not start recording until a user says something like 'Alexa,' 'Amazon,' 'computer” or 'Echo'.
Amazon's website states: "You’ll always know then Alexa is recording and sending your request to Amazon’s secure cloud because a blue light indicator will appear or an audio tone will sound on your Echo device."
The devices have a mute button that electronically disconnects the microphones and which allows users to review their recordings at any time and delete them.
Crespo posted a $65,000 bond and was released from custody. He awaits his next court appearance.
