
# Luxury £3.5million mansion up for sale - complete with indoor golf and go-karting for the kids

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:07:50+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Balloo, https://www.facebook.com/MissBalloo/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/property/luxury-35million-mansion-up-sale-17195270?utm_source=Facebook&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=BL_Facebook_Posts)

A stunning five bedroom mansion is up for sale - and it even has it's own go-karting track for the kids.
The huge detached home, located in Mill Lane, Coventry, is on the market for a jaw-dropping £3,500,000.
But Living Springs is every family's dream with a race track for the kids winding around the garden, virtual indoor golf, a playroom and a gym.
Its beautifully decorated interior is the epitome of luxury, with a silver theme running throughout - though it is on the market without the gorgeous furnishings.
The grand property also boasts eight acres of land, including a lake, a timed watering system for the rear courtyard and panoramic views of the idyllic Warwickshire countryside.
The classy open plan kitchen-diner opens out onto a patio which is complete with loungers and sofas - perfect for entertaining.
Constructed over eight years, the current owners have even thought to include a Sonus sound system in every room, stretching to the garden too.
It features underfloor heating and to top it all off there's a jaccuzi bath in one of the three glossy en-suite bathrooms.
Zoopla estimated the running of the household would cost almost £14,000 with the mortgage alone costing around £13,400.
It's fully protected by automated driveway gates activated by a remote control and also CCTV and an intruder alarm.
The Zoopla advert , hosted by Simon Burt Privilege, reads: "Living Springs is a truly magnificent, extraordinarily symmetrical, 5 double bedroom, contemporary country mansion residence, conceived and constructed to the highest possible standards by the current owners over a period of 8 years and offering nearly 7,500 square feet of the most highly specified and opulent family accommodation currently available on the market today!"
