
# BTS Star Jungkook's Management Apologises To Victim, Fans After Car Accident

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:35:40+00:00**

Author: **Hyonhee Shin and Minwoo Park**

Original: [HUFFPOST](https://www.huffingtonpost.in/entry/bts-star-jungkook-management-apologises-to-victim-fans-after-car-accident_in_5dc121c2e4b0bedb2d520e32)

SEOUL — A member of South Korean boy band BTS is being investigated by police after admitting he was at fault in a crash between a car he was driving and a taxi, the group’s management said.
Jungkook, the group’s main vocalist, was driving in central Seoul last week when he hit a taxi due to an “an error on his part,” manager Big Hit Entertainment said on Monday. The 22-year-old immediately admitted violating traffic laws and was questioned by police.
“Both the victim and Jung Kook did not sustain major injuries,” Big Hit said in a statement.
“He made a statement at the police department and reached an amicable settlement with the victim.”
Management for Jungkook, whose full name is Jeon Jung-kook, apologized to the victim and concerned fans. It did not give further details about the cause of the accident, citing an ongoing investigation, but local media said he violated a traffic signal.
Police officials in the central Seoul district of Yongsan declined to comment, citing internal rules.
The seven-strong BTS has spearheaded a wave of Korean pop music, crowning their success with three No. 1 albums on the Billboard chart in less than a year, a 2019 Grammy nomination and concerts from New York to Saudi Arabia.
The group last week wrapped up a world tour that included 10 cities and saw them perform in front of more than 1 million fans in total.
