
# 'Neurohacking' cream which 'helps memory and learning' could be available in 5 years

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:55:08+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/neurohacking-cream-helps-memory-learning-20802532)

Scientists claim a new cream helps users learn to speak new languages and play musical instruments.
The outlandish boast was made by the team behind "neurohacking" cream dihexa.
And according to reports it could be available in the UK within five years.
It was developed by experts at Washington State University in an effort to combat Alzheimer's disease.
Developers say it does this by slowing cell death and suppressing enzymes which wipe out chemicals used for memory and learning.
 
The product is on sale in the US, but makers say they do not know if Brits will embrace it as keenly.
Dr Daniel Stickler, who represents biotech company Apeiron, told the Sunday Telegraph : "When we were in London and meeting people, we were presenting this idea of improving human behaviour and we were finding that as long as there were other people worse off than them it was all OK, they just kept calm and carried on.
"That mindset was very different for us coming from the US where we have a very large percentage of people who think, 'I know I'm good but I want to get better.'"
He added: "If you’re learning to play the guitar or something, it’s really good for creating that kind of mental response."
Back in 2012, Prof Joe Harding, of the Washington State University, said: "This is about recovering function
"That's what makes these things totally unique. They're not designed necessarily to stop anything.
"They're designed to fix what's broken. As far as we can see, they work."
Trials have shown the drug can imprve concentration, mood and memory.
