
# English teacher buys £52 fake TB diagnosis online so he can skip work for holiday

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:54:25+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, John Feng, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/english-teacher-buys-52-fake-20806592)

A teacher who bought a fake tuberculosis diagnosis online so he could go on holiday has been caught out after officials hauled him in for further tests.
Mr Du's dodgy diagnosis was discovered after two pupils at the school he works were found to have contracted the bacterial infection.
The 23-year-old teacher reportedly paid the equivalent of £52 for a fake chest scan and diagnosis online so he could take time off to go on holiday.
When Mr Du, who teaches English as a second language to children around the age of five, presented the certificate to his employers at the privately run school, they decided to test his 18 pupils for the disease.
 
Things took an unexpected twist when two youngsters in his class were found to have TB.
The discovery led Mr Du to pay a further £35 for a second diagnosis showing he didn't have the disease, which usually takes months of daily antibiotics to cure.
But the teacher's second set of hospital documents failed to convince the parents, who pressured him into taking a third test at a Hohhot hospital in the Chinese region of inner Mongolia,
This proved not only that he had been clean of TB all along, but that the previous chest scans belonged to another person entirely.
It seems his two sick pupils contracted the disease from another source.
Mr Du, who parents said was popular among pupils, later made a public apology in front of all his pupils' parents.
He revealed he wanted to take an extended holiday and use China's National Day break to have some lengthy time off.
Fearing his first lie would be exposed, he decided to lie again to try and cover it up, he added.
Mr Du admitted he did not realise how serious TB was when he chose to use it as his sick leave excuse.
Parents have told local media they are demanding further assurance that management at the school will improve, but did not say whether they would seek to involve officials with the city's education bureau.
The school's director, Ms Zhang, did not say whether Mr Du would keep his job.
