
# Revealed: Arsenal flop and the other transfers Aston Villa missed out on

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:20:18+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/aston-villa-transfer-news-arsenal-17214035)

Gerrard Houllier has revealed the big-name signings Aston Villa missed out on when he was forced to step down as manager in 2011.
The Frenchman replaced Martin O’Neill as Villa boss in 2010 but his tenure was cut short because of concerns over his health.
Heart problems meant he was unable to take charge of the side for the final five games of the Premier League season and he left by mutual consent at the start of the summer.
But Houllier had grand plans for Villa and tried to set up several signings intended to boost the squad for the following campaign after a ninth-place finish.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Yohann Cabaye, Gervinho, Gary Cahill and Charlie Adam were all lined up as targets by Houllier and his team.
In an interview with the Athletic, he said: “We showed [Cabaye] around Villa Park and he was looking forward to joining. He would have improved the team so much.”
The central midfielder, who has 48 caps for France, instead moved to Newcastle United from Lille after Houllier’s departure.
 
Gervinho, the Ivory Coast forward, was also on the shortlist having impressed alongside Cabaye at Lille.
“I knew him from France,” said Houllier. “He had one year left on his deal and he was coming.”
But Gervinho decided to sign for Arsenal and went on to endure a difficult spell there, scoring only 11 goals in 63 games.
Cahill was also targeted as Villa looked to bring him back to B6 three years after he was sold to Bolton Wanderers, however he stayed put before moving to Chelsea the following January.
Houllier revealed: “Discussions were under way. “A centre-half was a priority and we felt confident we could get him back. Why Aston Villa let him go in the first place, I’ll never know.”
Then there was Adam, the midfielder who had been the driving force in the middle of the park for Blackpool the previous season.
Adam ended up at Liverpool, who paid £6.75m to take him to Anfield.
 
“Macca (Gary McAllister) said we should go for him,” Houllier added.“We had to be creative with our recruitment because there wasn’t much money available even though we were losing Ashley Young to Manchester United.
“I had a plan with Macca. If my health had been fine, I would have stayed on as manager and helped develop the talented, young players that we had coming through.
“With my health not fine, I said I will stay in the shadows and help Macca, but that wasn’t to be.
“It could have been a very different outcome in the end because the club has everything in place - the history, the fan base, the stadium, the training ground, and it used to have the players.”
Former Liverpool boss Houllier was replaced by Alex McLeish, who made the rare hop across the city from St Andrew’s to Villa Park.
