
# Kenyan Startup Among Top Ten African Firms To Showcase Solutions To African Challenges

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:08:34+00:00**

Author: **Francis Muli**

Original: [KahawaTungu](https://www.kahawatungu.com/2019/11/01/kenyan-startup-top-ten-african-firms-showcase-solutions-african-challenges/)

Asilimia, a Kenyan technological startup, will on  Thursday, November 7 be among top ten startups from around Africa that will be showcasing their solutions to some of the biggest challenges affecting the continent at the Startupbootcamp (SBC) AfriTech 2019 Demo Day.
Asilimia makes mobile money cheaper and easier to use for informal traders whilst rechanneling the transaction fees saved into critical services and products they couldn’t previously afford and access such as insurance.
Other startups showing off their solutions, which span financial services, retail, agriculture, property, big data, commerce and more, include:
Read: Instagram To Pull Down, Block Images That Suggest Self Harm, Suicide
Read: Facebook Extends Fact-checking Programme To 10 More African Countries To Curb Fake News
Read: WhatsApp Sues Israeli Firm NSO Group Over Malware Attacks On Activist, Journalist Accounts
This cohort was drawn from almost 2,000 applications from 60 countries.
During the programme, Yobante Express completed its first cross-border delivery from Harare to South Africa. Snapslip won second place at the inaugural Prosperity Games, a virtual investment experiment hosted by the UK SA Tech Hub.
The prize includes a trip to the UK to explore how this solution could be implemented abroad. Asilimia won the Africa Cup at the SA Innovation Summit which included a R5 million investment offer from the Unicorn Group.
Read: Share Prices For Banks At NSE Spike Minutes After Rate Cap Was Removed
YouFarm was shortlisted in the category of best FoodTech/AgriTech startup at the Southern Africa Startup Awards, Cinnamon Clubs signed a partnership with UAP Old Mutual and HouseAfrica is piloting the first national land registry to operate on the blockchain.
“The depth, breadth and resilience of this cohort is quite fitting, given that this is the third year of the SBC AfriTech series. This is the perfect opportunity for us to showcase the results of sourcing, screening and scaling the most innovative technology-driven solutions to challenges faced on the African continent,” says SBC AfriTech Programme Director, Nsovo Nkatingi.
The Startupbootcamp AfriTech accelerator is anchored by some of the fastest-moving corporates on the continent including Old Mutual, RCS, BNP Paribas Personal Finance, Nedbank and PwC. The programme is also supported by several service partners including: Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, Dentons, Cloudworx, VC4A, Inner City Ideas Cartel, Brevity Law and The Loudhailer.
