
# Dad who failed driving theory 27 times paid impersonator £500 to take test

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:08:06+00:00**

Author: **Janet Hughes**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/dad-who-failed-driving-theory-20814750)

A dad who failed his driving theory test 27 times paid an impersonator £500 to take it on his behalf.
Sujon Miah had come to his wit's end by November 2018, having tried and failed on 27 occasions.
Miah, 31, paid an accomplice £500 to pretend it was him sitting the test, Gloucestershire Live reported.
The plan quickly unravelled when staff at the test centre noticed the photo on his licence didn't match the person taking the test.
Not only has the Gloucester dad admitted to paying someone to sit the test on that occasion in a police interview, he told officers it wasn't the only time he had attempted it.
   
In January 2019 he'd paid someone else to pretend to be him for the day.
On that occasion the impersonator had passed, only for the result to be overturned later.
Miah was given a 14-month sentence suspended for two years and a 200-hour unpaid work order for handing his provisional driving licence to his accomplice.
The court also ordered Miah, from Gloucester , to pay £400 court costs and a victim surcharge.
Miah had already pleaded guilty to two counts of making or supplying articles for use in fraud for a driving theory test by supplying his provisional driving licence to an impersonator to carry out a test on his behalf at an earlier hearing when he was sentenced at Swindon Crown Court on Friday November 1.
Miah is not the only would-be-driver who has been caught out.
The Driver and Vehicles Standards Agency (DVSA) head of counter fraud and investigation, Andy Rice, said 1,065 cases of driving theory test fraud had been referred for investigation since April this year.
So far 136 of them have been referred for prosecution.
“DVSA’s priority is protecting everyone from unsafe drivers and vehicles," he said.
“Our theory tests are designed to ensure that future drivers have the right knowledge and attitude to drive safely and responsibly.
“We use all of our powers to seek punishment for anyone caught cheating their theory test to reduce the risk of dangerous driving on our roads. These sentences show the courts take this issue seriously.”
