
# Blizzard Explains Diablo 4’s Loot System, And It Sounds Really Good

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/03/blizzard-explains-diablo-4s-loot-system-and-it-sounds-really-good/)

Yesterday, I wrote a piece about how there were a few red flags being raised for me about Diablo 4 after its announcements, but 75 minutes or so of panels later and I’m feeling a bit better about it, and I wanted to highlight one aspect of it that I found rather compelling, the new loot system.As ever, Blizzard is heading back to Diablo 2 to bring some aspects of it forward including the return of Runewords, which replace Diablo 3’s gems, and are a bit more complicated in terms of customization for builds. And there’s a new rarity tier that is essentially giving Diablo “exotics” at last. So, let’s get into it:
This is the “org chart” for loot in Diablo 4:
You can see that we have the normal white-blue-yellow progression, but after that, set items and legendary items are meant to be on roughly equal footing. This is opposed to the past where sets could often feel dominant, pushing out most legendary options.
Past that, we have Ancient items in the game at launcher, higher stat versions of normal items, which Diablo 3 didn’t introduce until later, but it appears Diablo 4 will have them at launch.
After that, we have Mythic items. And Mythic items? That’s a whole other can of worms.
As you can see this Mythic amulet that was shown off has four legendary passives on it. As such, you can only wear one Mythic item at a time, kind of like a Destiny exotic. These don’t really appear to be “themed,” as in all four legendary passives increase the same kind of thing, so it might be an objective to make your Mythic item properly synergize with the rest of the build through its random rolls. I like that idea. I’m not sure if this is pulling legendary perks from existing legendaries, or if they have their own, special ones.
Finally, we have the return of Runewords. I am still scarred from Diablo 2 when I spent a month trading up for a Zod rune, only to find it was a dupe. Hopefully that will not happen this time around.
This is a rather clever system as the rune chain together in an interesting way that allows for pretty deep customization. In the example you have one rune that says something like “Every three seconds without moving, activate the next socketed rune,” and then the next rune in the chain could be “gain a random shrine effect for seven seconds.” And depending on how many runes you slot in, you could create a truly wild item that stacks all sorts of triggers and bonuses and is unique from something anyone else is using. That seems pretty rad.
While I remain skeptical about many aspects of Diablo 4 (which is apparently still several years away) I think Blizzard knows they need to avoid the loot problems that plagued the original at launch, and this seems like a very good start to me. More to come, obviously, but I like what I’m hearing here.
