
# ***Live Updates*** Trump Holds Mississippi Rally | Breitbart

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:45:18+00:00**

Author: **Tony Lee**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/2020-election/2019/11/01/live-updates-trump-holds-mississippi-rally-2/)

Stay tuned to Breitbart News for live updates.
All times eastern.
—
10:00 PM: After ripping the “mentally violent” members of the resistance, Trump asks how Democrats can impeach a president who did nothing wrong. Trump also says Democrats don’t seem to have Mitt Romneys but “we do.” He says though Republicans have better policies, Democrats are always more “vicious” and “united.”
9:50 PM: Trump claims “the wall is going up rapidly” and says “this is a very serious wall.” Trump says he will never apologize to “crazy Nancy” for calling MS-13 gangsters “animals.” Trump now talking about the tents and needles in the best neighborhoods of San Francisco. “Go home and fix your district,” Trump says, reminding voters that Democrats “have never been more extreme” than they are today.
9:39 PM: Trump rips Washington politicians who were disloyal to American workers. He says he’s America is “not the sucker country” anymore under his leadership and talks about how NAFTA/WTO devastated Mississippi’s manufacturing base. Trump says “nervous Nancy” doesn’t want to give Americans a victory by bringing up the USMCA trade agreement. He rips the ruling class for feeling entitled to redistribute America’s wealth all around the world. He says all that ended when he took the oath of office and says his signature line: “After years of building up foreign nations, we are building up our nation.” Trump says it is the job of the military to protect our security and not to be the “policemen of the world.”
