
# 2,000 bets vie in Inter-School taekwondo tilt

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:50:21+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/sports/other-sports/2000-bets-vie-inter-school-taekwondo-tilt)

The competition will feature Novice and Advance male and female performer in the Seniors, Juniors, Cadet and Gradeschool categories.
The two-day tournament also includes Poomsae or “forms” which is open to colored and blackbelt students for individual, pair and team events.
Poomsae entries follow a systematic time of movement in consecutive sequence against an imaginary lone or multiple opponents. Hands and feet and interconnected techniques like blocking, punching, striking, thrusting and kicking are used in this event.  Constant training of Poomsae helps improve flexibility and control in breathing, balance, power, eye focus and mental discipline.
Schools affiliated with the Philippine Taekwondo Association nationwide will compete.  Among these are Ateneo de Manila University, University of Sto. Tomas, St. Paul Pasig, Diliman Preparatory School, Mary Hill School, Emilio Aguinaldo College, Montessori Integrated School, De La Salle University, University of the East, National University, Philippine Science High School,  School of Holy Spirit, University of the Philippines Diliman, National University, Arellano University and other Visayas and Mindanao institutions.
Competition in the event supported by PLDT, Meralco, Philippine Sports Commission, Philippine Olympic Committee and Milo will start at 9 a.m.
Martial arts enthusiasts and sports fans, especially children who are interested to learn taekwondo. are invited to witness the tourney.
