
# Mr Robot Season 4 Episode 5: A Spectacular Hack In Three Parts

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kate O&#39;Flaherty**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kateoflahertyuk/2019/11/04/mr-robot-season-4-episode-5-a-spectacular-hack-in-three-parts/)

Mr Robot season 4 episode 5 is a must-see if only for the huge hack that Elliot (Rami Malek) and his sister Darlene (Carly Chaikin) somehow manage to pull off. All the concepts people have already seen via security research are there: You can certainly tell that Mr Robot’s creator Sam Esmail consulted with genuine industry experts to craft this superb series and episode. It’s due to this great hack that episode 5, named after the 405 error code Method Not Allowed, is one of the best of the entire Mr Robot season so far. It’s super-fun and exciting–but the elaborate physical hack isn’t particularly realistic. You could orchestrate most elements in theory, but in reality they would be very hard to pull off–even in isolation. 
Elliot has made Darlene a fake employee pass to get into the building of Virtual Realty but the thing is, she’s not on the system. The way Mr Robot makes the idea of being able to get into a heavily guarded building realistic is the situation: It’s Christmas so the time of year when security is lax and the best time to orchestrate a physical hack such as this one. There’s only one security guard on the desk when Darlene enters the building and tries to put her pass through casually, which of course doesn’t work. 
It’s also worth noting that Darlene has been chosen as the person to socially engineer the security desk guy because she’s the most innocent looking of the two: Elliot would not have made it past the desk. She drops her bag on the floor so Elliot can run past and jump the barrier without being seen. When in the security control room, he accesses the system with a very simple six letter password, is it ‘Admin1’ or ‘123456’?
He’s then able to edit the employee page to add Dolores Haze aka Darlene to the system so her pass works at reception. In case you didn’t know, the name Dolores Haze is also famous as the 12-year-old girl otherwise known as Lolita and it’s Darlene’s IRC screen name in season 2.
Elliot, meanwhile, is ensuring the security cameras don’t catch the pair by tinkering with the Camsec Pro configuration software. He is able to then upgrade the firmware which turns off all the security cameras; they’ve got 40 minutes.
The biometric hack is probably the most far-fetched part of this episode. Sure, fingerprint based hacks have been done before by numerous security researchers: Early biometric computers could be accessed using a gummy bear.  
In this case, Darlene has ‘accidentally’ left her phone at the front desk and has managed to obtain the security guard’s print when he calls her back and hands it to her. 
She peels off the screen protector containing the print and it is then 3D printed. Darlene and Elliot get some putty to press into the 3D printed fingerprint and it is used to access the server room. 
Once Darlene and Elliot have accessed the server room, they first need to delete Dolores Haze from the system. But as you’d imagine, the security guard is onto them–he’s clocked that the firmware upgrade was done and that someone has used his fingerprint to access the server room. (As an aside, notice that the security in the building is called ‘The Parmenides’–the Greek philosopher who claimed that nothing changes in reality; only our senses convey the appearance of change). 
In the server room, Darlene and Elliot have hacked into the Cyprus National Bank. They’ve done it.
A great breach and heist but was this Mr Robot episode realistic? Maybe not, although weak password security is known to be an issue in many companies. Recently, I reported that Equifax was using ‘admin’ as a password at the time of the 2017 hack.
Realistic or not, it was an action-packed and exhilarating Mr Robot episode that demoed a lot of concepts security researchers have been working on for years. Roll on next week. 

        Mr Robot airs on Sundays at 10pm on the USA Network and Mondays on Amazon Prime. 
      
