
# Yorkshire re-signs Nicholas Pooran for Vitality Blast

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:38:06+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/yorkshire-re-signs-nicholas-pooran-for-vitality-blast?utm_medium=rss)


        West Indies International Nicholas Pooran has been signed by the Yorkshire County Club for yet another season after an impressive first season, which was brief, with them in the 2019 season. The wicketkeeper-batsman has agreed to return to Headingley for next summer's Vitality Blast.
      
He was a part of West Indies’ World Cup 2019 campaign and scored a brilliant hundred in the run-chase against Sri Lanka at Chester-le-Street. Against the hosts and World Champion England, Pooran top-scored for his team with 63. 
The promising cricketer Pooran, who had a brief T20 season with the Yorkshire club, will now be available for a majority of the club’s North-Group matches in 2020, subject to international duties.
Pooran has revealed that he is very happy to be returning to play the Vitality Blast for Yorkshire and that will help him finish some “unfinished business” since the last season’s stint was a brief one.
"I'm very happy to be returning to Headingley for next season's T20 Blast. I really enjoyed my short stint there after the World Cup and feel I have a bit of unfinished business with the weather winning in a couple of the games I was scheduled to play in 2019,” Pooran was quoted as saying by ESPNCricinfo.
"I look forward to catching up with my team-mates in 2020," he added.
