
# Exposed 9-volt battery triggers junk drawer fire, fire officials say

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:15:07+00:00**

Author: **Logan Rude**

Original: [CHANNEL3000](https://www.channel3000.com/news/exposed-9-volt-battery-triggers-junk-drawer-fire-fire-officials-say/1138974282)

An exposed 9-volt battery started a fire in a junk drawer Friday after it came in contact with a metal object, fire officials said.
MADISON, Wis. - An exposed 9-volt battery started a fire in a junk drawer Friday after it came in contact with a metal object, fire officials said.
Firefighters responded to a call in the 4200 block of Jerome Street after the residents noticed smoke was coming from a kitchen drawer, according to a news release. When the homeowners opened the drawer, flames flared up. Officials said the homeowners took the drawer outside and dowsed it with snow to extinguish the fire.
The damage was minimal thanks to the homeowners catching the fire so early, according to the release.
Fire officials said the drawer contained a number of electrical items, including batteries that weren't held in any kind of packaging. According to the release, one of the homeowners put two chargers in the drawer roughly a half hour before the fire. Officials said the movement likely caused the 9-volt battery to come in contact with a metal object, resulting in a short that was hot enough to ignite other objects in the drawer.
The Madison Fire Department warns people to keep batteries in their original packaging to avoid them coming in contact with objects that could pose a fire risk.
