
# Changi Airport Group partners The Drone Racing League (DRL) to bring professional drone racing to Asia

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:33:44+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Netto**

Original: [The Online Citizen](https://www.theonlinecitizen.com/2019/11/05/changi-airport-group-partners-the-drone-racing-league-drl-to-bring-professional-drone-racing-to-asia/)

Last Friday (1 Nov), Changi Airport Group (CAG) and the Drone Racing League (DRL) – the world’s only professional circuit for drone racing – announced a partnership for Singapore to host its first professional drone race, the ‘DRL Allianz: Singapore Champions’, at Gardens by the Bay (GTBB) on 26 November at 7.30pm.
Supported by Singapore Tourism Board, CAG has teamed up with DRL to not only bring the high-speed drone race to Singapore, but also various innovative and educational drone-technology workshops at the Changi Experience Studio in Jewel Changi Airport on 24 November, where guests can look forward to virtually racing a drone on the true-to-life DRL Simulator, and engaging with drone pilots and photographers while learning about safe and responsible drone flying in Singapore.
Meanwhile, competing in the upcoming race will be some of the world’s best First Person View (FPV) drone pilots who have competed through challenging courses in legendary sports stadiums around the world. As the ultimate finale, four of the season’s top-ranking pilots will vie for the top spot of the Singapore Champions race through a complex three-dimensional track around the Flower Dome in GBTB – the world’s largest glass greenhouse.
The ‘DRL Allianz: Singapore Champions’ race will premiere on 31 December 2019 on Twitter via @DroneRaceLeague, showcasing Singapore to the world on top international sports networks for DRL’s tens of millions of global fans to watch.
Fans of drones and e-sports would not want to miss the chance to experience this immersive, futuristic sport that blends the digital and the real.
For more information and to purchase your tickets to the race and workshops, click here.
“We are thrilled to partner with DRL to bring the 2019 championship finals to Singapore. This is the first major drone racing event to be held here and comes at a time when public interest in – and government and industry support for e-sports is at an all-time high,” said Mr Jayson Goh, Managing Director of Airport Operations Management at CAG.
“With drones becoming an increasingly significant aspect of our daily lives, this is a great opportunity for the community to learn more about drone technology and the safe and responsible use of drones. We look forward to more people discovering this exhilarating sport and believe the event, which has garnered more than 90 million broadcast views in previous years, will not only enhance Singapore’s position on the global e-sports map, but also bring Singapore to the world,” he added.
“Southeast Asia has emerged as the world’s fastest growing e-sports hub, and with its booming tech industry and stunning landmarks like Gardens by the Bay, Singapore is a dream location to host a DRL race that’s often described as a real-life video game,” noted Mr Nicholas Horbaczewski, CEO & Founder of DRL.
We’re thrilled for fans to experience the speed, crashes and technology of professional drone racing live in Asia for the first time, previewing our continued expansion of more live events in Singapore and across the continent in the years to come,” he added.
