
# Avengers: Endgame Is Coming to Disney+ on Launch Day

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:06:51+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/471174-avengers-endgame-is-coming-to-disney-on-launch-day)

You asked for it, and now you got Avengers: Endgame on day one of Disney+. With less than a week before the official launch of the streaming service, The House of Mouse has proved once more that they actually listen to fans. The official Twitter account has announced with a short trailer that the epic conclusion of the Infinity Saga will be immediately available on the launch day.
The trailer opens up with the countless requests from Marvel fans to have Endgame on day one of Disney+. No sooner said than done. Robert Downey Jr.’s Iron Man snaps his fingers and makes all those comments disappear. As the video fades towards a white background, a simple message appears: “We got you.”
You can check the full promo in the player below.
In addition to Endgame, Disney+ users will find content from the company’s iconic entertainment brands, including Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars, National Geographic. On top of that, all thirty seasons of The Simpsons. Unfortunately, at the moment only seven of the 23 MCU movies will be available. It’s hard to say that they all will ever be available under the same banner, as services outside of Disney have the rights for some of them — like Spider-Man‘s recent movies.
Marvel’s fans can’t complain too much, though. Disney is developing multiple limited series featuring characters from the Marvel Cinematic Universe, with The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, Loki, Hawkeye, and WandaVision being four of the shows in development at the moment. This will be just a small part of the huge content Disney is offering to the fans.
Disney+ launches on November 12 in the US. Will you be streaming Avengers: Endgame when Disney+ launches? Let us know in the comment section below!
