
# Xiaomi Mi Watch launched: here is the first Xiaomi smartwatch - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:57:50+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/xiaomi-mi-watch-launched-here-is-the-first-xiaomi-smartwatch/)

Rate this post
Along with the long-awaited CC9 Pro cameraphone, Xiaomi has also presented the Mi Watch smartwatch, at a special press conference. It could be considered as a small smartphone because it provides a complete list of elements for offline calls: eSIM module, built-in microphone and speaker. In addition, the Mi Watch supports a full range of wireless interfaces (Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 5.0, GPS, and even NFC).
The Xiaomi Mi watch runs a proprietary custom MIUI, based on Google’s Wear OS. There is also a set of classic functions for smartwatches, including heart rate monitoring, the ability to control physical activity and sleep and display notifications from a smartphone. It is possible to listen to music from the watch, it has 4 GB of internal memory.
The smartwatch comes with a square touchscreen display protected by sapphire glass. The back of the watch is made out of ceramic. There’s a crown on the right to navigate through the watch UI. Also, there’s a multi-purpose button as well as a microphone on the right side. On the left, you have another microphone hole along with a speaker vent. The Mi Watch features an aluminum alloy body with a matte finish, but it has sharper curves than the Apple Watch. At the bottom, you’ll see the pins for the charging dock and the heart rate monitor.
The technical specs of the Xiaomi Mi Watch also include a 1.78″ AMOLED display (326ppi, like the Apple Watch 5) with the Qualcomm Snapdragon Wear 3100 4G chip featuring four Cortex A7 cores clocked at 1.2GHz. The watch has a battery of 570mAh, much bigger than its competitors. The company claims the Mi Watch can last up to 36 hours or up to two days on a single charge.
The Xiaomi Mi watch comes with its own in-built app store. It will offer 40+ optimized apps for the new watch. This includes popular Chinese apps like QQ, WeChat, and Keep (fitness). Thanks to NFC, the Mi Watch can also make payments in China. Also, the Mi Watch is also capable of connecting to and controlling smart home appliances at your home.
The Mi Watch also supports eSIM, which ensures you can connect to the internet via the cellular networks. As well as making and receiving calls independently.
The watch is up for reservations starting today and will go on sale on November 11th in China. The cost of the Mi Watch in China has amounted to 1299 yuan (about $185). For 1999 yuan ($285), you will get a special version with better materials. Including sapphire crystal, ceramic back, stainless steel frame, metal strap.
