
# Fortnite: Where to find the hidden 'N' in Dockyard Deal Loading Screen

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:40:55+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/fortnite-where-find-hidden-n-dockyard-deal-loading-screen?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Epic Games
      
With a brand new season of Fortnite comes brand new challenges, and Chapter 2 has once again changed up the way players will be taking them on. For the recent The Lowdown set of missions, one of the challenges for this week will have you scouring one of the games new loading screens for a hidden letter, and making your way to it in the game. This one can be tough if you don't know where to look, but thankfully we've found where to go.
First and foremost, this challenge won't be live until Thursday, Nov. 7, at 9:30 a.m. EST. After that time, you'll be able to jump in and tackle it, but just know that it won't be live until the weekly missions go live in Fortnite.
Secondly, you'll only be able to do this challenge once you've completed eight of The Lowdown missions, which is when you unlock the loading screen. This screen shows 8-ball and a handful of characters in an E.G.O. Outpost. In the back left of the picture, you can clearly see the letter 'N' floating above what looks to be a receptacle of some sort. There are a handful of E.G.O. Outposts in the game, but the one you'll be wanting to head to is the hangar.
Once you finish up, you'll be all done with that challenge, and can either get started on some of the other missions for this week or finish up the match you're in.
If you're looking for more challenges to do, you can always check out the full list of The Lowdown Missions to see what you've missed, still need to complete, or head back to the main menu to prepare for the next challenge. There are tons to do this week, so you'll be busy exploring Fortnite Chapter 2 for some time!

        Old-school Android Do you still root and mod your Android phones? Rooting and modding Android phones used to be incredibly popular, but in recent years, the urge to do this seems to have died down. Do you still like to tinker with your devices?
      

        more privacy Latest WhatsApp update lets you control who can add you to a group WhatsApp has made a few changes to its Group Privacy Settings to give users more control over who can add them to a group chat.
      

        Here we go! Amazon's big Black Friday sales on its hardware kick off November 22 If you were wondering when you would be able to get your hands on Amazon's devices for less during Black Friday, the answer is here. The company will be staggering the deals with the first set of price drops taking place on November 22.
      

        Best stuff in life is free Outlast 2 brings the scares in November's free PS Plus games If you have a PlayStation Plus membership, then you know about PlayStation's free games of the month. Here are the free games you can get this month with your membership.
      
