
# Pep Guardiola told he's going to regret making Sadio Mane diver jibe

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:11:28+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/pep-guardiola-told-hes-going-20822069)

Pep Guardiola might regret labelling Sadio Mane a "diver" when his Manchester City side take on Liverpool at the weekend.
That's according to former Reds midfielder Danny Murphy, who reckons the Spaniard could be left thinking "I wish I hadn't said that."
Guardiola made the comment following Liverpool's last-gasp victory over Aston Villa, in which Mane netted the winner but also picked up a booking for simulation.
Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp hit back at the comments, before Guardiola spoke out once more in a bid to justify them.
But regardless of his intention, Murphy believes the City boss has taken a risk.
"I don't think Pep went into [the press conference] with that in his head, I think he was just triggered by a question about the result at Villa Park and it's just come out," Murphy told  talkSPORT.
"In hindsight he might look back on that and think, 'I wish I hadn't said that'. If I was him, the last thing I'd want to do is wind up the best player in the Premier League at the moment and before you play him next week.
"Mane is playing incredibly well and if it does spur him on a little bit more, then why take the risk?"
Klopp was unhappy with Guardiola's comments, and was quick to play down the notion that Mane is a diver in his own press conference.
"I couldn't really believe it to be honest and then I saw it," said Klopp.
"I am not sure if Pep spoke in that moment about Sadio or the team – both is not too nice to be honest. I am not too sure if I want to put oil on the fire.
"I am not interested in these kind of things. And I promise not to mention tactical fouls. That is maybe already too much.
"When I came into the interview after the game [at Villa Park] I really had no clue what the other Premier League results were. That is the truth.
"I didn't ask anybody, It was 45 minutes after the game when I heard the results of the other games. When I come into the dressing room I don't say: 'What's the result of the other games?'
"I had to speak to players, I had to speak to a lot of people and then I went into interviews. I didn't think for one second about the other games.
"Then, after the interviews, [he will ask] how did the other teams play? Then someone told me City won in the 86th minute and all this happened. I don't understand these types of things.
"My brain is not big enough to think about another team as well. I have enough to do to think about us."
As aforesaid, Guardiola later attempted to play down his comments, suggesting they were taken out of context.
"In the 94th minute it was against Leicester, it was a penalty and it was wow," he said. "That was the intention for my comment. Far away from my intention to say Sadio is this type of player because I admire him a lot.
"For Jurgen it is a penalty, for the referee it was a penalty, for VAR it was a penalty, so I was the wrong guy. Jurgen said he knows Sadio better than me.
"And I have an incredible respect and the message in the football always try to be like this, always positive and attractive. My son and my daughter, when they win in the last minutes, they ask me how lucky they are. I say it's not lucky.
"What Liverpool have done last season and this season many times is because they have this incredible quality and this incredible talent to fight until the end. Hopefully I can clarify everything for Jurgen.
"That's why I said to my players, not just my son and my daughter, that it is not lucky. It happens once or twice in a life then yes [it is], but this happens maybe 10 or 12 or 13 times."
