
# Kenya to put best foot forward in New York bid for UNSC seat this week

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:21:06+00:00**

Author: **CORRESPONDENT**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/kenya-to-put-best-foot-forward-in-new-york-bid-for-unsc-seat-this-week/)


        NEW York, United States, Nov 3 – Dusk in New York, wee hour in Nairobi, this is how Kenya seeks to push the region’s security agenda, where the country will be waking up to new global decisions or inclusion of the region’s peace and security agenda.
      

        This Wednesday, November 7, at 7pm in New York and 2am in Nairobi, Dr. Monica Juma, Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs will lead a high powered global delegation in launching Kenya’s campaign for the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) seat for 2021-2022. Kenya garnered more than two-thirds votes to become African Union’s endorsed candidate.
      
ADVERTISEMENT
The eventful well thought out strategy will be launched in New York where the UN headquarters sits and it is a moment of great pride for the country as Dr. Juma says in this interview.
“We have come a long way as Kenya to where we are now, from getting an endorsement from AU through a vote in August and rallying associates to support our bid. Launching this campaign in New York, the headquarters of the Security Council 6 months shy of the vote means that we need each one of you to support the country’s bid because we stand to gain a lot if we get an opportunity at this top global security decision-making level.”
Last week, the African Union formally wrote to member states in New York informing them of Kenya’s position as far as the security council seat is concerned, a boost to the campaign happening on Wednesday. Dr Juma affirms; “it is the reason our President is meeting his peers to ensure that we get the vote come June 2020, we have to touch base with almost all the actors.
The campaign has a cocktail of Kenya’s best, from world front runners Brigid Kosgei and Eliud Kipchoge, he of No human is Limited, Tegla Lorupe and Paul Tergat, to rugby’s best Collins Injera.
Kenya’s best tea – KETEPA will be showcased and for the nightshade, taste will be our best beer globally – Tusker. The cuisine compliments the best that Kenya has to offer.
At the security council, Kenya intends to push for policies that strengthen the region’s peace and security status.
With a volatile red sea that is experiencing a high appetite of external interests, Kenya sits at a vantage point to push for policies that are crucial in the safety and security of the African continent.
Indeed, this launch to be held on the 49th street, 541 Lexington will prove that we are an inch closer to getting a place on the 46th street, 1st Avenue in a matter of months.
Post Views: 383
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
