
# BI resumes stamping on Chinese passports with nine-dash line

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:26:39+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/07/bi-resumes-stamping-on-chinese-passports-with-nine-dash-line/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
After seven years, the Bureau of Immigration (BI) will resume the stamping of Philippine visas on the regular e-passports of nationals from the People’s Republic of China (PROC) which bear the nine-dash-line map, but officials explained this was mainly on account of “security concerns” because the separate sheets of paper issued by officials were easily lost.
The BI had stopped the practice of stamping visas directly on Chinese passports in 2012 amid the heightened tension between the two countries over the standoff at Scarborough Shoal and other issues in the South China Sea (SCS).
China had used the nine-dash-line map to illustrate its claim over 90 percent of the SCS, but in 2016, a UN arbitral panel ruled the nine-dash line without legal basis. Beijing has never accepted the jurisdiction of the international court over the case that Manila fled against it.
When the tensions got heated in 2012, the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) decided to place Philippine visas of Chinese nationals on a separate sheet of paper.
However, in a memorandum issued by BI Commissioner Jaime Morente, immigration officers in various ports have been given the go-ahead to affix their stamps adjacent to the Philippine visa of a regular e-passport presented by a PROC passenger.
Morente explained that the change in policy was in compliance with the DFA’s recently issued foreign service circular instructing its Philippine consular officers to affix the Philippine visa on the pages of Chinese passports where the nine-dash-line map is drawn.
The agency, according to Morente, adjusted its own procedures in support of the change in policy of the DFA.
Morente said the previous practice of stamping on a separate sheet of paper raises security problems as these sheets are easily lost and misplaced by holders. 
“We support this policy update of the DFA. In the past, we have also expressed security concerns over the old practice because sheets of papers can easily be lost,” he added.
