
# ‘The Walking Dead’ Wants Me To Forgive Negan, But I Can’t

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/03/the-walking-dead-wants-me-to-forgive-negan-but-i-cant/)

Tonight’s episode of The Walking Dead is Negan-focused, and while I’ve already seen it, I won’t go too much into detail about what it contains. But in general, we are on the path of a “Negan redemption arc,” set in motion by him finally able to be out and doing things after many years in prison. So far, he’s saved Aaron from walkers when he didn’t have to. He killed someone who was attacking Lydia in a gesture so noble it even has Daryl on his side. Tonight he will do some…other things, and it’s very clear we are heading down an arc that comic readers will find very familiar. Yes, that one.The point is that both the show and the comic try very, very hard to redeem Negan for his past sins. I struggled with it in the comics when I first read them, and I am struggling with it now, despite Jeffrey Dean Morgan’s immense charisma making me want to like Negan again.
But man, I just can’t do it.
It isn’t just about all the murders, though that’s certainly a part of it. Negan directly killed Glenn and Abraham in “example” beat downs that were supposed to get everyone else in line. He later killed Spencer with his own hand. Past that, the war killed countless other innocents, and probably at least created the situation in which Carl died, to some extent, even if that was separate from the conflict itself.
That’s all bad enough, and I don’t think his justification, that he was saving lives by killing just a few people to prevent larger pushback, is any kind of explanation at all, and even in the apocalypse yes, that’s a sin that should either get you outright executed or imprisoned for life, not out on good behavior six years later or whatever it’s been.
Past that, I still just can’t get what is arguably the grossest aspect of Negan’s character out of my head, his harem of wife-slaves. Yes, Negan always expresses that he is firmly anti-rape, even killing a Savior that tries to rape Sasha when she’s in captivity. And yet the guy keeps a harem of attractive wives on call for him to sleep with at any given time, with some of them even having existing husbands.
His explanation is that these women all volunteered for that role, but let’s be honest, it’s still extremely awful and gross and definitely a form of rape, even if they’re “willing” to do it because they want protection or food. Clearly, the women were not pleased with the arrangement, hence their desire to flat-out kill Negan in the Eugene storyline during the war. I think all Negan’s wives are dead now, save Sherry wandering around somewhere over on Fear the Walking Dead, but Negan survived. And that doesn’t seem right.
Negan is very charming and likeable and he occasionally does the “right” thing when given the opportunity. He has a soft spot for kids. He’s got a killer smile. And yet his actions have made him the combination of Charles Manson and Harvey Weinstein, and that is hard to get past unless you just block all of that out of your mind. It felt weird and wrong when the comics tried to redeem Negan, and it feels weird on the show too. Yet I am in the minority here, because Walking Dead fans have spoken and apparently 65% of fans are now rooting for Negan:
It’s weird, because I guess I am still rooting for Negan? But it feels almost manipulative. The show is making him do good deed after good deed and trying to make me forget about what happened 2-3 seasons ago, and yet it’s always there, and it seems impossible for him to be truly redeemed.
But I guess that’s what makes his journey complicated, and this plotline interesting, and so far, I think it’s been handled well, even if the core of it continues to irk me. I will never forgive Negan fully, yet I can tolerate him being alive and helpful if that’s the road we’re going down. It’s very strange, very frustrating, but I can’t stop watching.
