
# Wait, You Need This: 5 New Products Cosmo’s Beauty Team Loves RN

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:04:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/style-beauty/beauty/g29638320/wait-you-need-this-11-01-2019/)

✨Hello, hi, and welcome to Wait, You Need This, a weekly series highlighting five brand-spanking-new products the Cosmo beauty team (’sup!) can’t and won’t shut up about. ✨
I don’t mean to brag, but being a part of the Cosmo beauty team is kindaaaaaa the shit. Between testing and swatching new launches in our beauty closet and learning about the latest products and formulas at events, we’re always discovering cool products. And since sifting through Sephora’s New Arrivals section can be more complicated than AP calc, we decided to make your life a whole hell of a lot easier by rounding up our team’s favorite new products that are definitely worth your $$$.
This week, we’re introducing you to the juiciest (literally) lip gloss of all time, an all-natural brand’s first stab at skincare, an eyeliner that withstands even the strongest of oil cleansers, and more. Check ’em out, ahead, and don’t forget to stop by next week for our five new picks.
kosas.com $27.00 SHOP NOW
Since the 2019 revival of lip gloss, I’ve found myself in a bit of a predicament: I love the shiny, glossy vibe, but I literally can’t stand the sticky texture. So when Kosas—who makes the creamiest lipstick of all time, BTW—recently launched its first gloss, I was ecstatic to find that it wasn’t sticky or drying in the slightest.
Not only does it give me with the perfect wash of color (like noticeable, but not too noticeable), but the formula is also loaded with moisturizers like hyaluronic acid, peptides, and evening primrose oil that keep my lips super-duper soft. 
✨ Ruby Buddemeyer, beauty editor
sephora.com $27.00 SHOP NOW
As someone who wears liquid liner most days of my existence, I can confidently say that I’m a top-level expert/snob on eyeliner formulas—especially the metallic type, which tend to be sheer, runny, and blah. But these gel-like liners from Marc Jacobs are seriously excellent. They’re opaque, thick (in a good way), and super long-lasting, to the point where I wore Blitz Coin yesterday from 9 a.m. to midnight, and even my oil cleanser could barely remove it all the way. 10/10 love. 
✨ Chloe Metzger, senior beauty editor
follain.com $32.00 SHOP NOW
I love the all-natural and organic products Follain curates online and in their stores, so when I heard they were coming out with their own clean skincare line, I was stoked. The first product I’ve tried is the moisturizer (it just dropped this week), and you guys, I LOVE it. 
It’s hydrating, but not heavy (which is a must for my combination skin), and contains antioxidant-rich rosehip oil, plus bakuchiol and peptides to smooth the look of lines with time. I use it under SPF in the day and on top of my acid serums at night. 
✨ Lauren Balsamo, senior beauty editor
sephora.com $38.00 SHOP NOW
I’m a sucker for a good face cream, especially one that will leave my skin feeling soft and looking glowy in the a.m.—and, let me tell you, this one gets the job done. It’s packed with chia seed oil, glacier water, and elderberry extract, all of which moisturize and hydrate TF out of my skin at night. Oh, and it’s not heavy or super oily, so it doesn’t leave my pillowcase (or face) greasy in the morning. Seriously, what more could you ask for? 
✨ Ama Kwarteng, beauty assistant
glossier.com $24.00 SHOP NOW
If you’re jealous of the way everyone’s skin looks in the Glossier ads, (1) same and (2) you no longer have to be, thanks to this new oil-serum hybrid that leaves my skin crazy soft and dewy. Thanks to the formula’s light-reflecting minerals and ingredients like evodia rutaecarpa extract, your skin will look instantly brighter. 
And even though oil-based products usually mess with my acne-prone skin, I haven’t had any problems with this one since it’s non-comedogenic (aka, it won’t break you out). 
✨ Carly Cardellino Vaccaro, beauty director
Ruby Buddemeyer Beauty Editor Ruby is the beauty editor at Cosmopolitan, where she covers beauty across print and digital.
