
# Giulia Provides Quick-Cutting Edge For Alfa Romeo’s U.S. Efforts

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dale Buss**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/dalebuss/2019/10/31/giulia-provides-quick-cutting-edge--for-alfa-romeos-us-efforts/)

Alfa Romeo has a long road ahead of it if the Italian sporty-car brand is ever going to become more than a mere curiosity in the U.S. market, and parent Fiat Chrysler Automotive will have to devote a lot more development and marketing resources to the brand to make that happen.But in the meantime, we can enjoy some of the first fruits of Alfa Romeo’s return to the U.S. market, and the biggest one is Giulia. The mid-size sports sedan is a real treat to drive and just to look at, bringing the kind of product credentials to discerning American buyers that will benefit the brand greatly in its return bid.
Giulia debuted in the United States in 2017, and there are really two “models”: the standard, quick-and-lively sedan that retails from around $40,000 to the mid-$40,000s depending on the trim level, and the high-performance Quadrifoglio version which is getting kudos as a worthy “supercar” version of the nameplate.
Giulia standard relies on a base 280-horsepower, turbocharged four cylinder that makes the sedan plenty athletic and quick, providing moments of pure driving joy as Giulia slices up a winding country road. Fuel economy isn’t bad, either, earning 24 mpg in the city and 33 mpg on the highway. Rear-wheel drive is standard, and all-wheel drive is available except in the Quadrifoglio version.
But Quadrifoglio is meant to deliver a superior driving performance for the aficionado with a twin-turbo V6 engine that generates 505 horsepower.
Interior materials are high-quality. There’s a pleasant dual-pane sunroof that’s available. And Giulia’s infotainment and navigation systems come in an available 8.8-inch display screen, a 14-speaker Harman Kardon premium auto system, and satellite radio.
It’s easy to complain about the tight room in the rear seats of Giulia and also its skimpy cargo space in the trunk. But Giulia isn’t about cosseting passengers – it’s there for the driver, who may or may not have company. And in that regard, Giulia has been a great way for Alfa Romeo to reintroduce itself to American drivers who enjoy a little excitement.
