
# Pictured: Mum claims 'ghost' photobombed family on trip to Birmingham cinema

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:30:00+00:00**

Author: **birminghammail.co.uk**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/pictured-mum-claims-ghost-photobombed-17184894)

Is the face of a ghost haunting a Birmingham cinema?
One mum certainly thinks so after capturing a shadowy figure photo-bombing a selfie.
The 43-year-old mother took her daughter and nephew to Empire Cinema, on Birmingham Road, Sutton Coldfield , when she took the spooky image.
It was not until days later that she noticed a mysterious figure sat behind them in the snap.
The spooky soul seems to be wearing goggles and is looking down at the camera with his hands clasped before him.
What is more intriguing is that there are no seats where the man is supposed to be sat - only a space for people to exit.
The mum - who is also from Sutton Coldfield - said: “I knew it was strange. The corridor veers out and there are no further seats behind me.
"There’s nowhere for someone to sit. I thought the person or whoever it is sitting there has got these old fashioned goggles on their head, like a pilot.
“I would’ve noticed if someone was sitting there because it was just before the film was going to start and the cinema wasn’t packed out.
"There were a series of selfies I took with me and the children and he suddenly appears in one of them.”
The picture was taken in 2014 as the family watched a movie. Yet the image has played on the mum’s mind as time has gone on.
 
She said: “Over the years, I showed the photographs to friends and they thought it was strange, particularly with the goggles.
“When Birmingham Live asked this week if anyone had seen had seen a ghost to get in touch, I thought I would send it in, so the readers could make their mind up.
She added: “When I was a kid and growing up, I always used to go to the Odeon as it was known back then and there were stories that there was ghost or it was haunted.
“I thought nothing of it.
“Maybe the readers know what it is?”
