
# Yankees don't extend qualifying offer to Didi

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:28:00+00:00**

Author: **Bryan Hoch**

Original: [MLB.com](https://www.mlb.com/news/didi-gregorius-does-not-receive-qualifying-offer)

NEW YORK -- Didi Gregorius tackled the impossible challenge of taking over the position of shortstop following the Derek Jeter era, a role that he could continue to fill even though he did not receive a qualifying offer on Monday.
Gregorius, who turns 30 in February, has said that he hopes to continue his career with the Yankees. He is coming off an injury-shortened 2019 season in which he batted .238/.276/.441 with 16 homers and 61 RBIs in 82 games.
Gregorius can now test free agency for the first time in his career. Should he not return, the Yankees could shift Gleyber Torres to shortstop, with DJ LeMahieu returning full time to second base -- a position where he won three Gold Glove Awards with the Rockies. LeMahieu was a finalist for the award, which went to Yolmer Sanchez of the White Sox on Sunday.
Gregorius was one of seven Yankees to hit free agency on Halloween, following right-hander Dellin Betances, outfielder Brett Gardner, right-hander Cory Gearrin, outfielder Cameron Maybin, catcher Austin Romine and retired left-hander CC Sabathia. In addition, the Yankees declined a $20 million option on first baseman Edwin Encarnacion, instead paying him a $5 million buyout.
Of that group, the Yankees seem most likely to pursue a reunion with Gardner, who could man center field in the wake of Aaron Hicks’ Tommy John surgery.
The Yankees announced the following roster moves on Monday:
• Reinstated 3B Miguel Andújar, 1B Greg Bird, OF Jacoby Ellsbury and RHP Jonathan Holder from the 60-day injured list.
• Reinstated RHP Jake Barrett from the 60-day IL and outrighted him to Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre.
• LHP Tyler Lyons has elected free agency in lieu of accepting an outright assignment to Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre.

        Bryan Hoch has covered the Yankees for MLB.com since 2007. Follow him on Twitter @bryanhoch and Facebook.
      
