
# National Museum of the U.S. Air Force

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:43:00+00:00**

Author: **rbt45769**

Original: [Atlas Obscura](https://www.atlasobscura.com/places/national-museum-of-the-u-s-air-force)

Help improve Atlas Obscura by expanding National Museum of the U.S. Air Force with additional information or photos.
The National Museum of the United States Air Force is heralded as the oldest and largest military aviation museum in the world. Inside, a massive collection is on display dedicated to the history and traditions of the Air Force. The first two atomic bomb replicas utilized casings made during World War II, and are prominently displayed right beside the B-29 bomber that was deployed over Nagasaki in 1945.
The hydrogen bombs that were developed during the 1950s and 1960s are displayed near an enormous B-36 bomber. Other exhibits explore various aircraft used during U.S. conflicts, ranging from the Korean War to the Cold War. Some of these inactive weapons are on loan from other museums. 
There is also one warhead on display in the space flight section. The museum is adjacent to the Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio.
The National Museum of the U.S. Air Force is open seven days a week from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission and parking are both free. It's easily accessible from Interstate 70. The museum contains 17 acres of exhibits under one roof and is closed on Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Years Day.
No Comments Yet
Start the discussion. forum Visit our forums.
