
# What the EFL think about Liverpool criticism over Aston Villa clash

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:32:00+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, Josh Challies, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/liverpool-villa-carabao-cup-klopp-17213564)

The EFL will not scrap the Carabao Cup’s two-legged semi-finals after criticism of the scheduling surrounding Aston Villa’s quarter-final clash against Liverpool.
Villa face the Reds in the last eight of the competition on Tuesday, December 18, 24 hours before Jurgen Klopp’s side play in the Club World Cup in Qatar.
Liverpool plan to use two separate playing squads to deal with the quick turnaround and Klopp complained the fixture pile-up.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
"We respect the competitions but I don't like the two-legged semis in the Carabao Cup,” he said after Liverpool’s win over Genk in the Champions League on Tuesday.
“The Club World Cup you only play if you win the Champions League and that doesn't happen often in your life. We can't carry on like this. We need to find a solution."
 
But there are no plans to ditch the home and away format in the semi-final that awaits the winner of the clash at Villa Park.
The EFL resisted calls to change that schedule when talks were held with the Football Association and the Premier League ahead of the introduction of the winter break.
Instead, a decision was made to scrap extra-time in the competition with any stalemates going straight to penalties, as witnessed in Liverpool's dramatic 5-5 thriller with Arsenal last week.
 
Klopp had initially ruled out adopting a split-squad approach but a Liverpool statement earlier this week confirmed: “As a result, we will be utilising two playing squads simultaneously, with one squad participating in the FIFA Club World Cup in Qatar and another in the Carabao Cup.
“The club would like to take this opportunity to underline that while this is not an ideal scenario, it is an outcome which was arrived at with the best interests of the competition, our fellow clubs and ourselves as the sole motivating factor.
“We would like to thank the EFL for their efforts to accommodate us and we can confirm alternative dates were discussed, but ultimately none were considered suitable without compromising the scheduling of the competition itself or placing an undue strain on our playing staff.”
The introduction of the winter break has added further fixture headache for Klopp, who initially ruled out playing two different sides in those back-to-back matches but the club were wary of risking an even bigger headache when they enter the FA Cup in January, which brings with it the threat of replays and draw-dependent postponements.
