
# Rugby X is neither league nor union, but it might just catch on

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:00:11+00:00**

Author: **Gavin Willacy**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/no-helmets-required/2019/nov/04/rugbyx-rugby-league-union-o2-london)


        The new five-a-side rugby format captured a new audience when it debuted at the O2 Arena in LondonBy Gavin Willacy for No Helmets Required
      
It wasn’t rugby union and it wasn’t rugby league. It was indoors, it was five-a-side, it was strange and it was different. But Rugby X, which made its debut in London last week, was definitely rugby. Whether it’s here to stay or not remains to be seen.
It had plenty of merits. More than 16,000 spectators turned up to the O2 Arena over afternoon and evening sessions on Tuesday and most of them seemed to enjoy themselves. They may not have seen the future of rugby but they did see tremendously talented players from around the world showing off some outlandish skills, all presented in the most modern way: with a booming soundtrack, darkness, spotlights, fire-shooters, the whole works.
The game itself is like a warm-up at rugby training, played across the width of a 4G pitch. “It’s similar to just a game of tip, touch rugby just with the contact,” said Ireland youngster Sean Cregan, who scored in both the semi-final and final.” The general proportions and relationship between people and space seemed about right, much better than sevens on a full-size pitch, less space than nines. Most of the law changes made it a generic, simpler game: uncontested “fed” scrums, tap restarts with the defensive line back ten metres, no kicking to touch.
At it’s worst it looked like a bad basketball game: one team attacks and scores, then the other do the same. At it’s best, it was entertaining and enjoyable. Some of the best contests came in the women’s matches, which had far more arm-wrestle than many of the more clinical men’s games. The women’s teams had to work harder for tries, going through multiple phases and tackles – partly because of their less sharp skill sets.
