
# Molly-Mae Hague slammed for 'cultural appropriation' over Cleopatra Halloween costume

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:43:42+00:00**

Author: **Verity Sulway, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/verity-sulway/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/molly-mae-hague-slammed-cultural-20792608)

Love Island star Molly-Mae Hague has come under fire for dressing up as Egyptian ruler Cleopatra for Halloween .
Her costume included traditional clothing for Egyptian monarchy, with a gold headdress and she held an Ankh in her hand.
This has drawn criticism for being cultural appropriation, which is when someone adopts aspects of a minority or disadvantaged culture that is not their own, for personal gain.
When Molly-Mae, who is not Egyptian, posted a photo in her costume last night, comments flooded in berating her for it.
"Love the look but this is cultural appropriation" said one.
"Cultures aren’t costumes :(" said another.
"My culture is not your Halloween costume", said a third.
"Cultural appropriation for Halloween at its finest" added another.
"Molly please don't culturally appropriate. You are not egyptian", begged another.
"Yes, this is cultural appropriation, you are not Egyptian and therefore have no right to use their culture for your own purposes, how very wrong of you", said another comment.
However, Molly-Mae also received thousands of positive comments on the post, and some fans expressed disappointment at that.
Model Demi Rose Mawby was slammed for the same thing earlier this year when she dressed as Cleopatra for her 24th birthday party.
Molly-Mae appeared at the Pride of Britain Awards earlier this week, where she talked about the accusations her relationship was fake.
She said: "I think we're proper over that now. I don't think anyone is saying that anymore.
"We're just happy to be here."
Tommy also echoed his girlfriend's sentiments that things were going well with their relationship.
The boxer gushed the couple were stronger than ever since making their new home in Manchester a lovenest.
"We've gone from strength to strength since moving in," he said.
