
# The Best USB-C Power Banks

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Anthony Karcz**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/anthonykarcz/2019/11/05/the-best-usb-c-power-banks/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_term=Carrie/)


        
          This story was written in collaboration with 
        
        
          
            Forbes Finds
          
        
        
          . Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
        
      
Not all power banks are created equal. 
Sure, you can pick up a cheap unit on Amazon for what seems like a great discount, until it fails to charge your device, doesn’t maintain capacity, or worse, overheats. That’s why it’s important to stick with brands that have been through QC testing and set logical limits on their devices. That way, the only things that are blowing up are whatever you’re shooting in the game on your newly recharged phone or laptop or Nintendo Switch.
Here are the best USB-C power banks:
The Lifeactív Power Pack from Lifeproof needs to be in everyone's emergency kit. With Qi charging, an emergency flashlight and emergency LED built in, it’s perfect for just about any situation. Good thing that it’s also waterproof, shockproof, dustproof and, well, lifeproof. Just keep in mind that, while it has a 10,000 mAh capacity, it can’t output enough charge to keep your laptop running. For that you’ll need one of the beefier units on this list.
If you're looking for a compact, but versatile power bank, Jackery’s PowerBar is an incredible performer. With an AC outlet that can support up to 100W of output at its peak, you can power even the hungriest of devices. The USB-C outlet is a bit of a red herring on this unit, rated for charging your phone or tablet but not your USB-C-powered laptop (that’s what the AC outlet is for). 
Goal Zero makes some of the most reliable and versatile power products on the market. I’ve used their generators and solar panels for years and have been impressed, not with just how well they perform, but how they keep performing, barely losing any of their capacity as the years go by. With 25,600 mAh capacity and a max 60W output, the Sherpa 100 AC has more than enough power to keep everything in your pack running. It doesn’t lack for ports either. There’s one USB-A port, two USB-C ports and even an AC port if you are stuck using the power adapter for your laptop. And, yes, there’s a 5W Qi charger on top. The helpful OLED display on the front of the unit lets you know how much power is coming, going out and lets you set roles for each port if you’d like. And the included magnetic USB-C, Mini-USB and Lightning cables are a nice touch—you don’t have to worry about leaving yours at home. This is the only power pack you’ll ever need.
Okay, so maybe you don’t need the giant capacity of the Sherpa 100 AC and just want to bring enough pack with you to charge your laptop and your phone. In that case, get the Sherpa 100 PD. It has one USB-C port, two USB-A ports and a 5W Qi charger on the top of the unit. Instead of a fancy OLED screen, it has a simple LED readout of the current charge state. It also has the 25,600 mAh capacity and a max 60W output of the AC-enabled Sherpa, so you’ll be able to keep your devices running for a nice long time. And if you need to charge on the go? Use the included cord or hook the Sherpa up to one of Goal Zero’s Nomad solar panels for clean energy.  
