
# City Lawyers Ahmednasir, Donald Kipkorir Engage In Twitter Spat Over CJ Maraga’s Outburst

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:30:21+00:00**

Author: **Wycliffe**

Original: [KahawaTungu](https://www.kahawatungu.com/2019/11/05/lawyers-twitter-spat-maragas-outburst/)

Chief Justice David Maraga’s outburst on humiliation by the state has elicited mixed reactions on the internet with many Kenyans weighing in on the matter.
In a press statement on Monday, Maraga, who was speaking on the challenges the Judiciary is facing following the 50 per cent budget cuts imposed by the government, decried mistreatment and disrespect subjected by the Executive arm of government.
He recounted occasions, including the recent Mashujaa Day celebrations in Mombasa, he has not been accorded the respect befitting his office.
“Unless I am treated with dignity due to my office, I will choose which of State functions to attend,” said the CJ.
City lawyers Ahmednasir Abdullahi and Donald Kipkorir have sharply differed on the CJ’s demands.
Ahmednasir, who represented President Uhuru Kenyatta in the 2017 Presidential election, took issue with the CJ’s demands.
Read: Angry CJ Maraga Decries Disrespect By the State, Vows To Skive Gov’t Functions
The senior counsel noted that Maraga should have focused on big issues facing the judiciary such as the onslaught from the Executive and judges.
“I am SUPREMELY disappointed with CJ Maraga..the judiciary faces an Almighty onslaught from the executive and corrupt judges, yet his complaint is about Mercedes-AMG, right to overlap in traffic jams, seating arrangements during public holidays, who is cleared to enter State House, ” said Ahmednasir.
Kipkorir criticized Ahmednasir for the comment saying Maraga decried the frustrations just to drive home the point of the Judiciary being sidelined by the Executive.
He accused the lawyer of unfairly attacking the CJ for demanding the respect that he deserves as the President of the third arm of government.
Read Also: CJ Maraga Added On Road VIP List After Public Outcry
“CJ’s Speech was over 2 hours, the line on Mercedes was an hyperbole to dramatize his humiliation and it was for three minutes …. SAD you are joining the lynch mob against the CJ …. Our CJ deserves total respect including all perks & benefits appertaining his Office, ” said Kipkorir.
Not a man to take the words kindly, the senior counsel lashed out at Kipkorir saying he knew little about Judicial independence.
“You are a new “convert”…what do you know about judicial independence and Kenya’s struggle for judicial reforms?…concentrate on the simple and mundane matters that excite you…” he replied.
The KTK Advocates founder found the words demeaning and sought to make his point clear that the Grand Mullah has in the past attacked the Judiciary and his defence against the judiciary can’t be taken seriously.
Read Also: CJ Maraga, All Governors, Most CSs Denied VIP Treatment On Roads
“Luckily, we’ve all seen your belittling & humiliating the Judiciary for the last 20 Years & is well documented …. Your defence of the Judiciary is episodic & fleeting …. My publications in the Sunday Nation & Sunday Standard when I was Op-Ed Columnist are self-evident, said Kipkorir.
