
# Rhulani Reflects On Jele's Suspension For Soweto Derby

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:42:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/rhulani-reflects-on-jele-s-suspension-for-soweto-derby/666809)

Orlando Pirates head coach Rhulani Mokwena has explained why losing Happy Jele for the Soweto derby is not a such a big deal.

        Read: Two Red Cards, No Goals, Bucs Drop Points
      
The Buccaneers dropped points in the Absa Premiership after being held to a goalless draw by Maritzburg United on Tuesday evening.
Pirates finished the game with 10 men after Jele received his marching orders in the second half, but Mokwena insists they will be able to cope against Kaizer Chiefs.
When asked by SuperSport if Jele's absence is a blow, he replied,"Not really, we've got enough ammunition, we've got 34 players at Orlando Pirates, so we don't complain about losing anybody, today we didn't have [Thembinkosi] Lorch from suspension, we didn't have [Mthokozisi] Dube from suspension but we managed to put on a strong team on the pitch.
"They gave their all to win the game, that's all you can ask for, even when they were one man down, ten versus 11, you couldn't really tell once more which team was man short, so like I said, Mlungisi needs to go back to the drawing board.
"If you look at the incidents and check how the yellow cards came...err the only thing is just to be consistent [match officials], I remember playing against Cape Town City at the very same stadium and [Thamsanqa] Mkhize was on a second yellow [card] and the referee had the yellow in his pocket and then he put it back to his pocket. For me all it says we just need a bit of consistency but I don't want to talk about referees.
"You know my stance, they need help, whatever assistance they can get, be it goal-line technology, be it VAR [Video Assistant Referee], I don't know, be it human resources, more from the educational perspective, I don't know. But it is what it is, my focus is on trying to be the best coach I can be for Orlando Pirates at this moment in time and not to speak on behalf of referees," he added.
