
# Trevor Noah shares interesting view on marriage: 'I’m a big advocate for not living together'

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:11:47+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/The-Juice/News/trevor-noah-shares-interesting-view-on-marriage-im-a-big-advocate-for-not-living-together-20191105)

Judy Philander
Cape Town - Trevor Noah shared an interesting take on marriage.
During an interview on The Howard Stern Show on Monday, the 35-year-old discussed his dating life and whether he’ll ever get married.
“I’m not opposed to (marriage),” he says.
Host Howard Stern (65) asked Trevor when he’ll “calm down with work” and he responded by saying that work is what he’s learned to enjoy.
“I can only know where I am now in life, and that’s what I’ve learned to enjoy.”
The comedian then spoke about being against people living together when they’re married, FOX News reports.
“I’m a big advocate for not living together ever, even if you’re married,” he revealed.
“I think one of the biggest reasons people get divorced and relationships break up is because of this cohabiting bulls**t that we’ve come to believe is the way relationships are supposed to be.”
Trevor isn’t the first celebrity to voice his opinion on not living together despite being married.
In August Gwyneth Paltrow said she and her husband, Brad Falchuk, finally moved in together one year after tying the knot.
The Big Bang Theory actress Kaley Cuoco also recently revealed that she and husband, Karl Cook, don’t live together full time.
Sources: FOX News, The Howard Stern Show
