
# Football: South Korea's Hwang the 'bee's knees' for Bordeaux

Published at: **2019-11-04T02:44:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/sport/football-south-korea-s-hwang-the-bee-s-knees-for-bordeaux-12060074)

BORDEAUX: Bordeaux captain Benoit Costil said South Korea's Hwang Ui-jo is the "bee's knees" after the forward scored his second goal in four Ligue 1 appearances in Sunday's (Nov 3) 2-0 victory over Nantes.
Hwang, 27, who joined the French club from Gamba Osaka for €2 million (US$2.2 million) in July, claimed his third goal of the league campaign as Bordeaux moved up to sixth in the table.
"His settling in time has been minimal. He's very efficient. What he's been doing has been the bee's knees," Costil said.
"I prefer to have Hwang with us rather than against us," he added.
Coach Paulo Sousa also praised the 29-time international who set up Francois Kamano for the opening goal of the game with a precise pass with the outside of his foot.
"Hwang is starting to understand his positioning and has better communication with his team-mates," the Portuguese boss said.
"With every match he's starting to be decisive, to show his physical ability. He's an important type of player for us," he added.
Elsewhere, Patrick Vieira's Nice won for the first time in six games denying Reims the chance to move to second in the table with a 2-0 victory.
Wylan Cyprien and Christophe Herelle scored after Mali international Moussa Doumbia was sent off in the first half for the visitors.
In the final game of the day, Saint-Etienne continued their resurgence under Claude Puel as Denis Bouanga's second-half effort was enough to beat Monaco 1-0 to claim their third win in four games under the former Leicester boss.

        French Ligue 1 results:
      
Saint-Etienne 1 Monaco 0
Bordeaux 2 Nantes 0
Nice 2 Reims 0
