
# Film Room: Breaking Down The Lakers’ Clutch Win In Dallas

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shane Young**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/shaneyoung/2019/11/02/film-room-breaking-down-the-lakers-clutch-win-in-dallas/)

During a few key stretches in Friday night’s road victory over the Dallas Mavericks, LeBron James probably felt as if he was looking in the mirror. Across from him wasn’t a seasoned veteran with 17 years of NBA mileage, though. Instead, he likely reminisced about being in the same shoes as Luka Dončić back in the mid-2000s – trying to guide a franchise into relevancy while captivating viewers with his flair and IQ.James didn’t have the same amount of professional experience as Dončić when he was 20. He had played in the league for a year, but was used to dominating high school competition before that. Dončić has been facing pro-level talents on a nightly basis since he was 16 and playing for Real Madrid in the EuroLeague, which is comprised of a talent pool better than anything the NCAA provides. Still, when LeBron was in his second year with Cleveland and making his first All-Star appearance, a lot of his nights (and stat lines) looked similar to what the Slovenian wonder boy is showing us in year two.
They went head-to-head in Dallas to begin the Lakers’ three-game road trip. At nearly 35 and trying to stave off the bald patches, James still has enough left in the tank to dominate the young blood across the league. His 39 points, 16 assists, 12 rebounds, and four steals lifted the Lakers to an overtime victory. Dončić, who idolized James from afar and modeled a lot of his playmaking skills after him, entered the history books in a loss. He, too, had a triple double and became the youngest player in NBA history to record at least 30 points, 15 assists, and 10 rebounds. He doesn’t even turn 21 until late February.
It was a wild game to kick off November, and one in which the Lakers trailed by 15 during the first half. Out of their four victories thus far, it was definitely the most satisfying. Let’s take a look at how they managed to escape the Big D with a Big W.
It was clear Frank Vogel wanted to start the game with a smart halfcourt action to get Anthony Davis going. It ultimately turned into a “Double Drag” alignment, which is two consecutive ball screens along the three-point line to give the ball-handler (LeBron) extra room to get downhill. It usually forces a heavy rotation by other defenders, so the ball-handler either has a wide-open roll man or a clear pathway into a floater.
But notice how the Double Drag started here. The Lakers used a dummy action for Danny Green on the weak side, appearing to bring him off a double-staggered screen from the two Lakers’ bigs:
That little wrinkle already had Dončić (defending Green) in motion toward the left and trying to stay attached. Then, Green comes off the weak side movement to set the first screen of the Double Drag. Davis will follow suit, screening Dončić and immediately darting inside. When LeBron turns the corner, look at the situation Dwight Powell and Kristaps Porzingis are facing. Powell has to step in front of the freight train, and Porzingis needs to quickly rotate over to the sprinting Davis. But if he does, JaVale McGee is left alone in the dunker slot. This type of movement by the Lakers is what makes it a perfect set to utilize throughout the season.
Dallas built an early lead on the back of Dončić’s drive-and-kick game and the Mavericks’ ability to find shooters in transition. However, despite having a brilliant night as the offensive creator, Dončić faced some struggles when Avery Bradley was glued to him. He might not be the best off-ball defender anymore, but when tasked with disrupting a high-usage guard, Bradley still causes frustration:
What helps Bradley is staying low, still being quick enough to move his feet with the young and dynamic scorers, and staying very active with his hands. He can be too aggressive and reach-happy, as he was later in the game when the Mavs were in the bonus, but Vogel wants a hyper perimeter stopper to create some turnovers.
The Lakers had a putrid 71.4 offensive rating in the opening quarter because they couldn’t find success on open shots and the lane was too clogged with McGee on the floor. Twelve total minutes was all Vogel needed to see of McGee, who racked up three fouls and did nothing to help the team offensively.
With another big on the floor, it’s just a lot easier for Davis to get swarmed on his desired post-ups. On this early possession, watch how Porzingis (defending McGee in the opposite dunker slot) leaves his assignment to crowd Davis with a double team:
As soon as Davis tries to spin, he’s met by another seven-footer while Powell perfectly rotates down to McGee. It was great defensive help. But give credit to Davis, who didn’t panic and found the best pass out of the double. This broken play still let to a swing-swing action for Bradley to get an open corner three. The Lakers just couldn’t shoot to begin the game.
To alleviate the pain and keep the score respectable, they did find success with their off-ball activity. The awareness of when and how quickly to cut inside is a lost art in the lower levels of basketball. But in the NBA, it’s imperative when your offense is suffering.
In semi-transition, L.A. realizes it has a crossmatch advantage with Davis being guarded by two (much) smaller defenders. The Mavs didn’t have time to switch back to the original matchups, so they try to deal with Hardaway being posted up by The Brow.
ALERT: Notice how there’s not another center on the floor, and it’s a four-out offense:
Dallas starts to try the only possible thing to prevent a Davis bucket, which is to “dig” down with the nearest defender (Maxi Kleber). Instead of being a little more patient with his help, Kleber sends a full double to Davis. He completely takes his eyes away from LeBron, and it leaves Powell trying to station himself between LeBron and Caldwell-Pope. LeBron didn’t cut into the lane until Kleber was all the way down to Davis, and the Mavs showed no resistance once he caught the ball in motion.
Kyle Kuzma, who made his season debut on Friday after suffering a stress reaction in his foot back in August, couldn’t really get his individual offense working. His legs weren’t under him on his outside attempts, so he played within the team’s flow. He, too, made a smart backdoor cut when the ball was near the post. Delon Wright turns his head to see what Bradley’s doing, and this is perhaps Kuzma’s best skill – attacking the open creases and finishing inside of five feet:
If Kuzma’s long-range success isn’t going to be there right away, the best way to get him in rhythm is to create space within 15 feet. It can be as a cutter (like he did above), or off designed sets to get him catching it on the move. Vogel had more excellent weak side motion that tricked the defense a bit. It happened to benefit Kuzma here. In the corner, Kuzma looks to be setting the first of a double-staggered screen. 
The defense would read this as a play for Caldwell-Pope, who would usually run around the second screen (set by Howard) and catch the ball from LeBron. They throw off the Mavs by having Caldwell-Pope cut inside after the first screen, and then Kuzma takes his place in the same action:
Howard is still a quality screener, and he catches Kuzma’s man with the right angle. Kuzma is able to curl around the screen, and you can notice what KCP’s cut inside did. It took his defender (Hardaway) out of the play. There’s a ton of space between Kuzma and the next available help, which is the slower Boban Marjanović. The free throw line jumper is a terrific confidence booster for a scorer trying to come back and get adjusted.
Even though the second quarter was the worst defensive period for the Lakers, you could see the tone LeBron was trying to set. I’ve been among the loudest critics of his defense – particularly the effort, willingness to rotate, and actually caring off the ball – over the last three years. So far, it’s glaring how much Vogel’s coaching discipline has mattered. He isn’t the most strategically polished coach LeBron has been around, but he won’t stand for poor effort on his favorite side of the court.
James made numerous defensive plays that made my eyebrows jump, simply because we haven’t seen them in a long time. When it looked like he might get beat off the dribble, he didn’t give up. Here, he stripped Wright from behind with superb timing on his swipe:
Here, his weak side engagement was on point. With Bradley fronting Dončić in the post and Howard standing outside of the paint, LeBron did a fantastic job of rotating (in a hurry) down to the block for assistance. He leaves the weak side right when the ball takes flight, meeting Dončić at the rim. He causes a miss, then a reset:
Then, a few possessions later, the Lakers really show why they can still cause trouble defensively when it’s only James and Davis in the game with no extra big. Keep an eye on LeBron here. He’s guarding Kleber on the wing to begin the play, then slides down. Once the ball hits the cutter, LeBron steps in front to put himself in “charge” position in case the driver continues. Once the pass is made back to Kleber, he recovers and meets his teammate there to erase any hope for an attempt at the rim:
Maybe all LeBron needed was another defensive-minded center to play next to, considering the last time he was this active was with Chris Bosh!
Now ... we get to the Davis post-up conundrum that warrants discussion. I’m not even sure it should be called a conundrum, though, if it’s generally been an overwhelming positive for the Lakers.
Because no team wants to run a hundred pick-and-rolls with their two best players and coaches believe in a balanced diet, we’ve seen a mixture of Davis serving as a high ball-screener and a primary post-up threat. To be more accurate, Davis is being featured a lot more in the post (in a five-game sample) than he was in New Orleans. Overall, his usage rating of 34.0% would also be a career-high.
In the Lakers’ 4-1 start, Davis has finished 45 possessions as a post-up option. That’s nine per game. With the Pelicans, he averaged just 4.4 post opportunities per game over the last four seasons.
Traditional post offense is occupying 32.4% of his offensive trips while operating as a roll-man is taking up 16.0% of his trips. Both are very effective so far – he’s scoring 1.07 points per possession in the post (great for such a hard play type), and 1.18 per possession in the pick-and-roll (right where he was during his 2017-18 playoff season with New Orleans).
So, he’s been outstanding as a whole. However, when you get into the specifics of his post-up game, one thing has become crystal clear: Davis needs to focus on getting closer to the basket when he tries to score from the post. Too often does he fade away or take highly contested shots over two nearby defenders.
Looking at Davis’ favorite shot types and efficiency on each, you have to imagine the coaching staff is encouraging him to eliminate the poison:
He’s 1-of-12 on shots classified as this, which is just a very poor halfcourt attempt that bails out a defense:
Davis, much like Kevin Garnett in his prime, is substantially better at facing up when he’s in the post. It allows him to survey the defense a lot easier, leverage the strength from his shoulders to bump defenders back while driving, and use his quick, guard-like skills to his advantage. He loses all of that while posting up and fading away. He’s not DeMar DeRozan. He’s not LaMarcus Aldridge. That has never been a major part of his game.
When he’s in the mid-post, these are the type of face-ups and post opportunities the Lakers would rather see him use:
Only two of those are from the second quarter, which is supposed to be the section here, but the stark difference in effectiveness was so apparent that I had to piece them together.
He shot 15-of-28 for the game. If you exclude the five three-pointers he took and missed, he shot 65.2% from inside the arc. Unlike the previous game versus Memphis, he didn’t get the benefit of living at the foul line (only two free throws).
Davis destroyed the Mavericks’ interior defense, and it’s very easy to tell how his face-up game helps the Lakers’ offense. It completely unlocks his passing abilities, which are often clouded when he’s hunting the fadeaway jumpers. It also makes it extremely more likely that he’s going to draw an extra defender, notably from the weak side corner or dunker spot. That leads to wide open threes or drop-off dimes for dunks.
The halftime deficit would have been a lot larger than 10 if LeBron didn’t carve up the Mavs with his precision passing. It’s astonishing that we can be 17 years into a player’s career and they can still supply the “wow” factor once a week. Even though we’ve seen it all from him, there are still passes that instantly make you hit rewind. More than once:
He threaded the needle on a few halfcourt dishes, but the most important trait LeBron brought to the table on Friday was his outlet passing. He continued to push the pace, knowing that Dallas would prefer to keep the game at a slower tempo.
After scoring just two points and missing both of his three-point attempts in the first half, Danny Green had to get rolling. It would prove to be important later for him to find his groove.
Right out of halftime, the Lakers executed a nifty set to get Green a wide open look from one of his best spots. It was actually one of the their most-used sets that typically focuses on getting the initial ball-handler (LeBron here) an easy bucket inside. But when the Mavs sniffed it out, Green was the one they left.
It begins with a cross-screen by Green on Davis’ man, getting The Brow into his elbow spot. The ball is then passed to Davis, while the passer (LeBron) immediately uses a flare screen by the first screener (Green). Once that happens, the Lakers are hoping the two defenders near LeBron and Green get confused. They didn’t, as they switched it.
However, the broken play flows into a nice opportunity for LeBron to post up. This is when he’s the most dangerous. After the ball is dumped down to LeBron, it’s Davis that signals for Green to come toward him. Davis sets a great pin-down on Seth Curry, and that gives Green all the necessary daylight.
L.A. climbed back in the game behind LeBron’s outside touch. Once it finally arrived, it wasn’t leaving. He knocked down three triples in the quarter, including this one on terribly botched coverage:
The screen by Bradley is used because the Lakers wanted to get Dončić involved. It was likely for two reasons; to wear him down by having to guard the best player on the floor, and to take advantage of the young brain. Dončić is still absurdly smart with the ball, but he does make quite a few defensive mistakes. In the clip above, Dončić uses what’s called a “show,” which is something the Warriors always do with Steph Curry when they face a LeBron screen-and-roll.
The problem is, there’s no plan between Dončić and Finney-Smith for what happens after the “show.” Dončić appears to think he can recover back to Bradley, but Finney-Smith had already switched. When Dončić turns his back, The King fired up a long ball to tie the game.
When it turned into a back-and-forth contest during the third, the vision of a 34-year-old veteran and 20-year-old stud put on display was unreal. It was the individual battle we should all be blessed with in a potential playoff series. You could sense how badly they wanted to answer each other’s passing or sharpshooting highlight. James had the patient attack that took advantage of the youngster’s poor awareness, while Dončić had the laser speed that took advantage of L.A.’s focus on the cutters:
A lot of chaos went down in the fourth quarter. Like, way too much to describe. Dončić busted the back of his head open on Howard’s chin, didn’t go through a proper concussion protocol, and continued to play while his cut was still bleeding. Oh, and he hit a couple insane shots through the pain, on top of making an excellent reads and passes to the corner.
But for the Lakers, the only real factor that helped them put together their best defensive quarter was the inclusion of Howard with the starters. In my season preview two weeks ago, I was certainly guilty of saying, “there is no scenario where Dwight Howard should receive minutes over JaVale McGee.” Yep, I deserve to be bashed for it.
It might trend the other way later in the season if Howard doesn’t stay locked in, but as for now, he should just be the starter if Vogel is hell-bent on playing with two bigs.
With Howard in the game with James-Bradley-Green-Davis, the Lakers held Dallas to just 76.0 points per 100 possessions. With McGee in the place of Howard, that figure escalated to 112.0 – both lineups played 12 minutes on Friday.
For the season, the Lakers’ starters with McGee have played the most minutes of any L.A. lineup (57) and that combo has a -4.8 net rating despite the team’s league-leading mark of +10.5 overall. How is that even possible? Well, when McGee sits, the team has scored and defended at an elite rate.
On top of Howard closing out the game and providing more paint resistance, the Lakers found Green on two of the most important buckets of the game. One was right up Green’s alley with a trail three on the wing after a live rebound. With James pushing the ball, the Mavs paid the price for Dončić complaining to the refs. His man was the one left open, and nobody could rotate over in enough time:
The last triple for Green was the one that saved them.
Down three with only 6.4 seconds left, the Lakers only had one crack at it. In this situation, the entire world knows their intentions. Heck, even a newborn infant would be able to understand what L.A. needed. No matter how much pressure LeBron puts on the rim, two points were not going to matter for the Lakers.
Someone didn’t tell the Mavs.
As James catches the ball with roughly 4.5 seconds left, he’s determined to drive. Why? It wasn’t to dunk. It was to cause a mistake. And he did.
He’s old enough to know how often teams screw up and make boneheaded decisions in these moments. As he drives inside, he’s aware of two things: Either they’re going to foul him and he can have a decent chance at creating a three-point play ... or the defense is going to rotate off the perimeter out of habit.
The latter is what happened, and it cost Dallas a win. For some reason beyond me, Kleber rotates down from the Howard-Green corner action and directs his attention to LeBron at the rim. For what? The world will never know:
As that takes place, watch Howard when the clip zooms. He sets a hammer screen on Curry, but he doesn’t account for Curry being smart enough to get around it. As it looks like Curry is able to close out on Green anyway, Howard literally holds him back like a parent protecting their child from running into traffic.
It was the most illegal move of the night that went uncalled. So, yeah, the Lakers did get lucky the refs were ball-watching. The hold allowed just enough time and space for Green to catch, pump-fake, and fire. It really is a testament to his elite corner shooting that he was able to convert it after altering his release to that degree. And if the passes earlier didn’t show off LeBron’s IQ, consider this: He remembered that Green told him to always hit him lower than most shooters, since Green likes to load up and get his leg power under him. To be that dialed into the final possession and remember the small details like that, it takes an extraordinary talent.
So, as it turns out, the only thing that matters in a close game is whether or not you have the most physically dominant scorer. The Mavs had a wounded sophomore, the Lakers had a giant – one that’s enjoying a revenge tour after last year’s noise:
They ran another ball screen by Bradley to get Dončić switched onto LeBron. After the spin, James even drew the Mavs’ second star (Porzingis) into the action. He muscled through both and got the and-one to push the lead to seven.
Then, when Dallas cut it back to seven, he decided to put the icing on the cake. Once again getting Dončić to switch out – because apparently Year 17 LeBron is just a bully – he drilled a side-step three to give the Lakers a 4-1 record:
After five games, Vogel has sprinkled his Pacers sauce on the Lakers’ new core by having them No. 3 in defensive rating. They might be right outside the top-1o offensively, but that’s never going to be a concern in crunch time when LeBron has the rock.
For this team to be off to such an impressive start, it can only generate optimism considering it’s a brand new group and Kuzma has only played 20 total minutes.
Thanks for dropping by the first session of the film room, and we’ll check back in once the Lakers finish their road trip in San Antonio and Chicago.
