
# Things to do today in Bengaluru

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/things-to-do-today-in-bengaluru/articleshow/71908503.cms)

It’s showtime Bengaluru’s most-awaited theatre event is back. This year, The Ranga Shankara Theatre Festival – The Festival of Laughter and Forgetting will stage six plays over six days, besides hosting talks, music concerts, workshops, games and art installations. Today, you can watch Nava, a production by Dramanon and Aravani Art Project. Directed by Sharanya Ramprakash, it explores the stories of nine urban transwomen and questions, provokes and demolishes popular notions of what constitutes the Natyashastra and its nayakis. WHERE: Ranga Shankara, JP Nagar WHEN: 7.30pm, November 5; the fest is on till November 10 ENTRY: `200, bookmyshow.com & at the venue CALL: 26493982 Listen them up Do you enjoy acoustic music? Don’t miss this gig then. Because, The Acoustic Saga is known for doing medleys of Bollywood, English and Kannada songs, across the genres of rock, soft rock and fusion. They have been active in the circuit for two years now and have done over 200 shows in this span. WHERE: Happy Brew, 5th Block, Koramangala WHEN: 8pm-11pm, November 5 CALL: 9886998011 The singles’ club The Bengaluru chapter of the Network of Women in Media, India (NWMI) is launching Single by Choice, a book that explores several shades of the story of how and why some Indian women arrived at singlehood across decades and revelled in it. Join a discussion with editor Kalpana Sharma and two of the contributors to the book, Sharda Ugra and Sharanya Gopinathan. WHERE: Champaca, 7/1, Edward Road, off Queens Road WHEN: 5pm-7pm, November 5 CALL: 9353608989 Scenes from nature Curated by Gomathi Suresh, this exhibition of photographs and ceramics is coming to a close this week. So drop by Waning, a show that introspects on the natural world as it waxes and wanes, through lucid imagery and vitrified forms; a visual discourse, a hard-wired mesh of shared values and interconnectedness. It delves into personal photographic archives, in national parks and in the last remaining lungs of the city and its shrinking water bodies. WHERE: Gallery Manora, 55, 100 Feet Road, Indiranagar WHEN: 10.30am–7.30pm, till November 9 CALL: 25219654 There’s nothing stopping them Age is no bar. Which is what a bunch of senior citizens, or silvers as they are called at Silver Talkies, a social engagement platform for 55+, will showcase tonight. At ‘Let’s Get Social’, they will put up a dance performance, a fashion show, and a panel discussion on the topic ‘Adopting Healthy Ageing’. The evening will close with a musical performance by The Thayir Sadam project, featuring Bindu Subramaniam, Ambi Subramaniam, and Mahesh Raghavan. WHERE: Bangalore International Centre, Domlur II Stage WHEN: 3.30pm-7.30pm, November 5 ENTRY: Free CALL: 9980508000 A display of innovation From discarded cycle parts, computer innards to AI- generated algorithms, artworks and installations, the ongoing edition of Art Bengaluru is all about innovation. This year brings together 21 artists and about 200 artworks, which include paintings, hand-blown glass sculpture, installations, video art projects, 3D printed sculpture, photography, mixed media and digital art. The focus this edition is on younger artists. WHERE: UB City, Vittal Mallya Road WHEN: till November 30 ENTRY: artbengaluru.in To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
