
# Wishaw Library worker steps away from bookshelves after 44 years of service

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ross Thomson**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/wishaw-library-worker-steps-away-20815124)

A Wishaw library worker is stepping away from a life at the bookshelves after four decades of serving the public.
May Young finished up at the library at the Houldsworth Centre last week after 44 years of service.
And May’s colleagues were not letting her head off into the sunset without a farewell bash.
She said: “I began working at Motherwell Library and then when my son Graeme was born I went back to work at Wishaw and have been here ever since.
“I love working here and I’ve worked with some great people over the years.
“I like a blether as well and enjoy speaking to many of the regulars who use the library nearly every day.
“My husband Robert I like to travel so we will be going to Madrid in a couple of weeks.
“I also like walking and swimming so I will keep myself busy.
“Obviously I love to read as well so I’ll be sure to come back to the library regularly though.”
To thank May for all her hard work down the years, the Wishaw Library team nominated her for our Say it with Flowers competition.
And we were on hand to mark 61-year-old May’s final shift last Wednesday with the presentation of a beautiful bouquet thanks to our friends at Pixie’s Petals in Newmains.
One of May’s co-workers at Wishaw Library, Annette Munro, said: “May will be sorely missed by everyone who works here and everyone who uses the library.
“All of our regular customers know her very well.
“She started off at Motherwell Library before joining Wishaw.
“Her husband retired last year so it’s a good time for her to be going although we are very sad to see her leaving.
“We have a small staff at the library but we all get on well and it’s a great place to work.
“We are all sorry to be losing May from our team.”
Would you like to nominate someone for our Say it with Flowers competition?
You can do so by emailing their name, the reason for the nomination and a contact phone number for yourself to: news@wishawpress.co.uk.
