
# Queen's meeting with Pope almost caused outrage - but employee's secret plan saved the day

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:24:01+00:00**

Author: **Zoe Forsey, https://www.facebook.com/zoeforseymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/queens-meeting-pope-almost-caused-20764568)

Decades of experience means the Queen knows exactly what she's doing when it comes to engagements and always reacts perfectly when things don't quite go to plan.
But there was almost an unfortunate moment during her meeting with the Pope back in 2000 after she was given some very bad advice from her staff.
Luckily her now dressmaker Angela Kelly was brought up Catholic so knew the etiquette of meeting him, and took steps to make sure she had a back-up plan for the big day.
Recalling the occasion in her new book The Other Side of the Coin, she explains that the Queen's advisors wanted the the Monarch to wear a bright day dress for the occasion.
 
She writes: "Straight away, I knew this would be a mistake.
"Having been brought up Catholic, I knew instinctively that a day dress would not be appropriate for meeting with His Holiness."
She tried to warn the advisors that this wasn't right, pointing out that the Queen had only ever worn smart black outfits for previous visits, but they weren't having any of it.
So she went straight to the Queen, saying "as always, the Queen listened" but the monarch went back to the advisors and decided to stick with the decision.
After going back back and forth several times, Angela knew she was not going to win - but she was also not prepared to let the Queen down.
 
She writes: "Confident in the knowledge that I would be standing my ground, regardless of what the secretaries said, I came up with a secret plan."
Angela found one of the Queen's old outfits and asked a member of the team to create a navy copy, sending the invoice to her directly rather than via the official royal account.
She also asked milliner Maureen Rose to make a hat with a detachable veil, which again was to be sent directly to her.
She made one last attempt to change the Queen's mind before the tour.
"Once again, I told her that I was certain the Vatican would not have suggested that a day dress would be appropriate. I remember the Queen asking if I had ever been to the Vatican before and how I could be so sure of my advice.
 
"I hadn't, but said the reason I knew was because I was brought up a strong Catholic and that if the Queen turned up for such an important meeting in a day dress, where would it all end?
"I felt that standards would start slipping.
"I insisted that the Pope would not expect guests to arrive in such informal dress."
When the day of the visit finally came, Angela recalls hearing a very panicked private secretary calling her name.
He asked what the Queen was due to wear and she replied saying the pink number they had requested.
 
He asked if they had a black outfit, to which Angela lied and said no. As she had predicted, the Vatican had said that morning that the outfit had to be dark and there was a huge panic.
The Queen asked to see her, and it was during their meeting that she revealed his secret planning.
She pulled out the navy outfit, which the Queen liked but said it would be better if it was black.
"Her Majesty agreed and without a moment of hesitation, I produced the exact same dress and veiled hat in black
"'Luckily enough', I said, ' I also had this made' So you're absolutely fine'.
"I vividly remember the brief look of relief on the Queen's face."
