
# LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: Left yearns for President Pence?

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **THE WASHINGTON TIMES**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/6/letters-to-the-editor-left-yearns-for-president-pe/)


        ANALYSIS/OPINION:
      
Donald Trump is the duly elected president of the United States. Elections are a process with winners and losers. If you don’t like the outcome, you have the next election to offer your platform. That’s what elections are all about.
We suffered for eight years under the most corrupt, dysfunctional administration in history. The current leadership gets things done in a transparent, coherent manner. It’s not all talk and no action, as is the resume of the left. President Trump and his peope define the mission and implement it right away. The impact is immediate and productive.
The left is able to participate and contribute to this process but they are not willing. They prefer a path of anarchy. What has that done for them? Where is the accomplishment?
There isn’t even a viable option for them in the next election. All of their bridges have been burned. All they have left is impeachment.
Can somebody explain to them that the Senate would never support this, and even if they had a method of removing Mr. Trump, we would then have a President Pence, with the same administration? Would they try to impeach Mr. Pence, too? Then what? How about President Pelosi? Sorry. That dog won’t hunt.

        STEPHEN MOUNGELIS
      

          Mt. Airy, Md.
        

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
