
# Jose Mourinho 'dines with Arsenal chief Raul Sanllehi' with Unai Emery on the brink

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:41:05+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jose-mourinho-dines-arsenal-chief-20800649)

Arsenal head of football Raul Sanllehi reportedly dined with Jose Mourinho this week as the club consider pulling the trigger with a managerial change.
The Gunners have struggled to make progress under Unai Emery and growing concerns over fractures in his relationships with senior players have led to contingency plans being put in place.
According to The Times , Mourinho and Sanllehi had dinner together, with the Portuguese boss said to have impressed with his plans for their squad.
It is claimed Emery has just one or two games remaining to save his job as club bosses seriously consider a move ahead of the November international break.
They were held to a 1-1 draw at home to Wolves on Saturday, with pressure mounting on Emery as fans grow increasingly restless at the Emirates.
Mourinho has been holding out for a return to the Premier League as he eyes his first job since being sacked by Manchester United last December.
During his work as a pundit with Sky Sports, he has spoken of his admiration for Arsenal's club record signing Nicolas Pepe, something working in his favour with the Gunners hierarchy.
The fact he got the best out of Mesut Ozil at Real Madrid has also gone down well with Sanllehi as he looks for a new manager capable of getting them back into the Champions League.
A perception Emery has struggled to communicate effectively with his players due to a language barrier is believed to be a cause for concern behind the scenes.
The club are also in desperate need of a return tot he Champions League and want a manager with a strong knowledge of the Premier League capable of delivering rapid results.
Having retained a home in north London, Mourinho is reportedly being advised a move to Arsenal would be his best move, rather than heading back to Real Madrid if Zinedine Zidane is sacked.
