
# These restaurants are honoring vets and active duty by offering a free meal on Veterans Day

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:02:49+00:00**

Author: **Justin Boggs**

Original: [Fox 4](https://www.fox4now.com/news/national/these-restaurants-are-honoring-vets-and-active-duty-by-offering-a-free-meal-on-veterans-day)

As a thank you to veterans and active duty of the U.S. armed forces, dozens of restaurants are offering free meals on Monday, Nov. 11 for Veterans Day. Check out our list below of different offers. Beverages and gratuity are not included, unless noted.
Offers are good for Monday only unless noted. Offers are at participating locations only, and most offers require proof of service
Applebee’s: Veterans and active duty can receive a free dine-in entrée off of Applebee’s special menu. Items include the Bacon Cheeseburger and Fiesta Lime Chicken. Since 2008, Applebee’s has served 9.8 million free meals on Veterans Day. The offer is dine-in only.
California Pizza Kitchen: With proof of service, veterans and active duty are able to select from a limited menu, which includes six pizzas, four full-size salads or three pasta dishes. The offer is dine-in only.
Chili’s: With proof of service, veterans and active duty can enjoy a free entrée from a menu of seven entrees, including the Just Bacon Burger and Chicken Crispers. The offer is dine-in only.
Cracker Barrel: Veterans can enjoy a free double chocolate fudge Coca-Cola cake or a pumpkin pie latte.
Golden Corral: The buffet joint is offering current and active duty military and reservists a free meal at the buffet.
Little Caesars: The pizza joint will offer its typical $5 lunch of four slices and a 20-ounce beverage for free to veterans and active military from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Monday.
Logan’s Roadhouse: Logan’s Roadhouse is offering a free entrée to vets and active duty from 3 to 6 p.m. on Monday from its American Roadhouse menu, which features 10 entrees. The offer is dine-in only.
McCormick & Schmick's: The steak and seafood joint is offering free entrees for veterans and gold star honorees (parents and spouse) on Sunday. The restaurant has 10 free entrees available for veterans. The offer is dine-in only.
Red Lobster: Red Lobster is offering a free appetizer or dessert with proof of service. Veterans and active duty can choose from seven appetizers or five desserts.
Red Robin: This burger joint is offering veterans and active duty a free Red’s Tavern Double Burger and bottomless fries all day Monday. The offer is dine-in only.

        
          Check back for more updates as restaurants release their specials for Veterans Day.
        
      
