
# Jurgen Klopp 100 per cent expects Man City's Ederson to play against Liverpool

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:00:10+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopp-100-per-cent-20833405)

Jurgen Klopp admits that Ederson would be a big miss for Manchester City at Liverpool on Sunday, but the Reds manager fully expects the Brazilian to play.
The City goalkeeper was substituted at half-time of his side's Champions League group stage clash at Atalanta on Wednesday.
His replacement Claudio Bravo was later sent off, with defender Kyle Walker going in goal for the final stages of the 1-1 draw.
City boss Pep Guardiola has refused to confirm the severity of Ederson's injury, stating that he didn't know whether or not the stopper would be available for the summit meeting at Anfield.
But Klopp says he expects to see the City No.1 between the sticks.
"If he wouldn't play then it would change, because Ederson is an important part of their game, 100 per cent," Klopp told Sky Sports .
"Bravo can do similar things, but exactly the same? Nobody can do. That's how it is.
"But I expect him 100 per cent to play. One hundred per cent.
"He's an 'all the time' player. He did last year something similar, where he was out for a game and then I think a couple of days later he was back on the pitch.
"Last night they did exactly what everybody thought. It was a precaution.
"I watched the game and I didn't see any problem for Ederson.
"Going in the dressing room, I know how it is, the medical team ask 'any issues?' and your goalkeeper can say 'it's a bit tight' and you say 'okay, no risk, come off.'
"These kind of things happen constantly and you have to react, but I don't see him not playing on Sunday."
Liverpool go into Sunday's game six points clear of City, with many claiming that they could place one hand on the Premier League title with a win.
