
# Inside Shirley Ballas' London house — the plush pad where she relaxes after Strictly

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:35:19+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/inside-shirley-ballas-london-house-20756484)

Shirley Ballas has a stressful job as the head judge on Strictly Come Dancing , with fans scrutinising every decision she makes.
But fortunately, the 59-year-old has a plush house in London where she can come home to relax after a live show.
She often gives her fans glimpses into her home on her Instagram account, showing off the modern furniture and posh decor.
Her living room has trendy crushed velvet sofas in different shades of green, with a big flat screen TV sat in the middle on a white self.
The chic room had dark hardwood floors that compliment the furniture.
Shirley's hallway features a huge display of family photos on the walls, including school pictures of children she knows and snaps of friends.
In another seating area she has comfortable leather sofas, which are decorated with brocade print cushions.
Her kitchen has a stunning breakfast bar with a marble top.
She has an old fashioned clock and gothic style decorations on the walls.
There is also a dining room with a glass table and comfy cushioned chairs, with a huge silver mirror looking over the seating area.
In the garden she has a swimming pool and hot tub, perfect for relaxing during the summer months.
Shirley previously told Hello! magazine that she enlisted the help of interior design company The Sparkle Company to decorate her entire house.
She had been living in Los Angeles but moved back to London permanently to work on Strictly.
She told the publication: "When I got the Strictly job it made sense to come back to England.
"It was quite difficult to commute back and forth, and I really wanted to build my charity work. I simply can’t do that if I am on the other side of the world."
*Strictly Come Dancing returns on Saturday at 7pm on BBC One
