
# Ajax star Quincy Promes opens door to Premier League transfer after Chelsea thriller

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:00:54+00:00**

Author: **Gareth Bicknell**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/ajax-star-quincy-promes-opens-20829788)

Ajax star Quincy Promes has opened the door to a Premier League move after impressing in his side's thrilling 4-4 Champions League draw with Chelsea.
Liverpool and Arsenal have previously been linked with moves for Promes, and the Ajax winger certainly did any hopes of a Premier League move no harm at Stamford Bridge on Tuesday.
The 27-year-old helped give Ajax the lead as he provided the cross for Tammy Abraham's own goal, before he headed home to restore the Dutch club's advantage after Jorginho had equalised from the spot.
Last season's semi-finalists Ajax eventually stretched their lead to 4-1, but both their centre-backs were sent off and their lead was wiped out as Frank Lampard's Chelsea secured an unlikely draw.
Promes only moved back to his native Netherlands from Sevilla in the summer for £14m, but with the January transfer window looming he has admitted he would be interested in a move to the Premier League.
"To me, if I have a chance, maybe in the future," Promes said in quotes reported by Goal .
Promes, who has scored eight goals in 12 Eredivisie games for the Dutch league leaders, is contracted to Ajax until 2024.
Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp was linked with a move for Promes in 2017 when the winger was at Spartak Moscow, while Arsenal and Everton were also believed to be interested at the time.
After the 40-cap international's goal put Ajax 2-1 up against Chelsea on Tuesday, Hakim Ziyech forced Kepa Arrizabalaga into an own goal from a corner before the Moroccan teed up Donny van der Beek to make it four.
Chelsea captain Cesar Azpilicueta, however, appeared offside as he made it 4-2 from close range in the 62nd minute.
Ajax then imploded with both their centre-backs sent off with just over 20 minutes left.
First former Manchester United star Daley Blind received a second yellow card for a foul on Abraham.
Then Joel Veltman saw red for handball. Jorginho pulled it back to 4-3 from the spot before substitute Reece James rammed the ball home through a crowded penalty box for a dramatic equalizer two minutes later.
The draw left Chelsea and Ajax level on seven points in Group H, with Valencia on the same amount of points following their win over Lille.
