
# What is MacBook ‘thermal throttling’ and what can I do about it?

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:19:05+00:00**

Author: **Sydney Butler**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/04/what-is-macbook-thermal-throttling/)

You might have heard that the latest MacBooks are a hot item. Literally. The controversy surrounding CPU thermal throttling in recent MacBooks may have cooled down, but there are probably more than a few still asking what “thermal throttling” is in the first place. Is it a big deal? Does it even affect you? Surprisingly, the answer isn’t black and white. The (rather touchy) topic of MacBook thermal throttling requires a slightly deeper look at the inner workings of your laptop to fully understand.
In principle, any MacBook (or really any high-performance laptop) can be affected by thermal throttling under the “right” circumstances. However, some models have been particularly likely to exhibit a case of heatstroke.
Most recently, MacBooks Pro models from both 2018 and 2019 have shown severe throttling issues. In the case of the 2018 MacBook Pro 15-inch and 13-inch (with Touch Bar) models, a now-fixed firmware bug was the culprit. We ran a poll, asking our readers whether Apple should make a thicker MacBook to solve thermal issues in future models. The results were in favor of a chunkier MacBook with more thermal headroom. Unfortunately, the 2019 15-inch MacBook Pro showed that Apple still had to take aggressive measures to keep the temperatures down.
In this case, however, it wasn’t throttling, but a lowered voltage from the factory, which indicates that the core problem of limited thermal headroom is still stalking the MacBook Pro line. This may very well be one of the main reasons Apple is strongly moving towards using its own cool-running ARM processors instead.
Energy in the form of electricity is the magic that makes a computer work, but the byproduct of doing work with that energy is heat. Some portion of the electricity your CPU uses to do all those calculations is wasted and heats everything up. This is a bad thing because there’s a temperature range within which the circuitry works properly and, of course, very high temperatures where the materials that make up the CPU itself could be damaged.
The manufacturer specifies a temperature range that should never be exceeded if you want your CPU to last for its full natural lifespan. The exact numbers vary from one CPU model to the next, but every CPU has a limit.
When you ask the CPU to do something that requires most or all of its processing power, heat starts building up rapidly. The cooling system of your MacBook kicks in to move that heat away from the CPU and out of your system. Usually, this cooling system involves a metal heatsink directly attached to the CPU package and a fan system that moves air over that it, so that the built-up energy can be transported into the room instead.
