
# England prop Sinckler admits ‘sport is cruel’ after World Cup final heartbreak

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:35:00+00:00**

Author: **By Press Association**

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/sport/england-prop-sinckler-admits-sport-is-cruel-after-world-cup-final-heartbreak-961414.html)

Kyle Sinckler admitted “sport is cruel” after he was knocked out in the opening moments of England’s 32-12 World Cup final defeat by South Africa.
Sinckler, the Lions tighthead prop, departed the pitch after 173 seconds following an accidental collision with Maro Itoje and Makazole Mapimpi as he attempted to tackle the Springboks wing.
What followed was a harrowing experience for the scrum as six penalties were conceded at the disintegrating set-piece in his absence, Dan Cole repeatedly falling prey to Tendai Mtawarira.
“Words can’t do justice to how I’m feeling right now. Biggest moment in my life and not even being able to get a chance to shoot my shot,” Sinckler said on Twitter.
“Sport is cruel but we can never let adversity get the better of us. Want to thank everyone for their support especially back home…”
England prop Joe Marler offered some solidity to the scrum when he replaced Mako Vunipola in the second half, but the Springboks had already taken full control of the game.

        The Daily Donal Vlog: Stamp of Rassie Erasmus all over this South Africa side
      
“It was a tough ask and (referee) Jerome Garces decided he was going to referee a scrum this week, which is good to know, bless his heart,” Marler said.
“It’s very hard to change that perception. South Africa fully deserved to win. I hope they have a great night.
“As soon as you paint a picture early doors then that is in the back of the referee’s mind. The South African pack did a good job.”
“I was really gutted for Kyle. He has had an unbelievable tournament and he has really come of age here.
“What he can do in the scrum as well as the X factor stuff he does around the park – I put him up there as one of the top tightheads in the world and it is disappointing for it to end like that for him.
“It was a bit of blow to lose him early on because he has been in such good form. I’m gutted for Kyle but he can be proud of what he has done in the tournament. He will be unbelievable.
“This team, if they keep developing as they have, they will dominate for a long period and that is a joy to see.
“I have thoroughly enjoyed my time over the last 10 weeks and seeing the growth of the youngsters. They have got a bright future.”
