
# Mitt Romney seen favorably by just 18% of Americans: Poll

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:45:37+00:00**

Author: **Tim Pearce**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/mitt-romney-seen-favorably-by-just-18-of-americans-poll)

Less than a fifth of Americans view Sen. Mitt Romney favorably.
The Utah Republican is looked at positively by just 18% of Americans, according to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released on Sunday. His favorability has dropped from 43% since October 2012, prior to losing his presidential bid to then-President Barack Obama.
Romney is viewed very positively by 2% of Americans, somewhat positively by 16%, neutrally by 37%, somewhat negatively by 19%, and very negatively by 19%, according to the poll.
Romney, 72, has served as Utah’s junior senator since January 2019 and has become one of President Trump’s chief Republican critics in Congress. In October, Trump escalated his feud with Romney, calling him a "pompous ass." The president later called for Romney to be impeached.
"Somebody please wake up Mitt Romney and tell him that my conversation with the Ukrainian President was a congenial and very appropriate one, and my statement on China pertained to corruption, not politics," Trump tweeted on Oct. 5. "He is a pompous 'ass' who has been fighting me from the beginning, except when he begged me for my endorsement for his Senate run (I gave it to him), and when he begged me to be Secretary of State (I didn't give it to him). He is so bad for R's!"
Later in the month, Romney suggested that his feelings about Trump are shared by a large number of Republican lawmakers, but that his GOP colleagues generally keep criticism of the president to a minimum for fear of providing ammunition to Democrats in the 2020 election.
"They don't want to do something which makes it more likely for Elizabeth Warren to become president or for us to lose the Senate," Romney said. "So, they don't want to go out and criticize the leader of our party because they feel that might have the consequence of hurting our country longer term."
