
# Phone call to wife helps ensnare kidnapper

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/phone-call-to-wife-helps-ensnare-kidnapper/articleshow/71911744.cms)

The Girinagar police waited patiently for almost seven months to arrest a 40-year-old kidnapper. The accused had kidnapped a three-year-old boy on March 14 from Giri Nagar area and had sold him for Rs 1.5 lakh to a childless couple, residing at BEL Layout on Magadi Road. The police had managed to rescue the child within three days of his abduction. However, the accused was still at large. The police had no details of his whereabouts and even his wife and other family members were unaware of him. On Sunday, the police managed to arrest him after the accused made one phone call to his wife after seven months, and asked her to meet him. The accused has been identified as Lokesh alias Loki, 40, and is a resident of Kadabagere. When the police seized his mobile phone, pictures of four- five toddles boys were found. The accused had fixed price for each of the boys and would kidnap them in case any childless couple approached him for adoption purposes. He had managed to kidnap and sell the boy with the help of his sister and brother-in-law. He, his sister Anitha, 30 and her husband Sandeep Kumar, 30, both residents of Chikkagolarahatti, have been arrested by the police. “Lokesh is an auto driver and a carpenter by profession. His sister Anitha and her husband work in a garments factory at Chikkagolarahatti. Anitha’s colleague, Radhamma, who did not have children sought Anitha’s help for adopting a child. Anitha discussed the matter with her brother and seizing the opportunity, Lokesh contacted Radhamma and told her that he knew a poor couple selling their child for money. He convinced her that this was a better method as going through the adoption agency would take upto five years. He gave her options to choose and the price of each kid,” said an officer on part of investigations. After Radhamma selected the three-year-old boy, Lokesh kidnapped him while he was playing with his five-year-old brother on March 14. Lokesh had distracted the older brother by giving him Rs 20 and asking him to buy chocolates. When the brother returned, he found his little brother being taken away by the accused in the auto. The older brother then ran behind the auto, but the accused had managed to escape. After he informed his parents, a police complaint was filed. Based on CCTV footage, the police managed to get details of Lokesh. Further investigations revealed that the boy was sold to Radhamma and the boy was rescued from a village near Mandya. “After the boy was rescued, Lokesh managed to escape, while Anitha and her husband were taken to custody. The couple had moved to the High Court alleging police harassment claiming that they had no role in the kidnapping. As the police was made party in the case, they were unable to arrest the couple and Lokesh remained at a hideout in Kadabagere. After seven months of patiently following up on the case, the police managed to nab him when he called his wife. The police kept a close watch on Lokesh’s wife and followed her to Nelamangala, where she had gone to meet Lokesh. The Girinagar police have registered a case and further investigations are on.
