
# Pirates Confirm Stars To Miss Tonight’s Match

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/pirates-update-on-preparations-for-maritzburg-match/666767)

Orlando Pirates have provided an update on their preparations for tonight’s Absa Premiership match against Maritzburg United.
The Buccaneers will be at Orlando Stadium to host the Team of Choice who are oozing with confidence due to impressive form and results.  

        Read: Pirates Fear The Worst For Mntambo 
      
The KwaZulu-Natal outfit has won five matches in a row in League and Cup respectively as they go to Bucs, who have had a stuttering start to the season due to inconsistent results. 
Meanwhile, Bucs have confirmed that they will be without the duo of Thembinkosi Lorch and Mthokozisi Dube, owing to suspension.  

        Read: Lorch To Miss Pirates' Next Match! 
      
Lorch will be serving a one-match suspension for four yellow cards, while Dube will be out for the first of two matches due to a sending off. 
Both players picked up their respective cards from the 4-2 penalty shootout defeat in Telkom Knockout match against rivals Kaizer Chiefs on the weekend.  
“Mokwena and his assistants Fadlu Davids and Franck Plaine; will be without the services of some key players tonight. Right back Mthokozisi Dube is ruled out following his red card in the game against Amakhosi. The 27-year-old was sent off after his second bookable offence after impeding an opponent,” confirmed Pirates on the club’s official website.

        Read – Pitso: I Was Benni’s Biggest Fan! 
      
“Another casualty from this past weekends’ match is Thembinkosi Lorch who will be serving a one match suspension after an accumulation of yellow cards,” the club confirmed.
Bucs have also confirmed that midfielder Linda Mntambo could also miss the Maritzburg match, due to injury.  
