
# Pervaiz Ilahi contacts Fazlur Rehman, appeals to solve issue through dialogues

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:01:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/517039-Pervaiz-Ilahi-contacts-Fazlur-Rehman-appeals-to-solve-issue-)

ISLAMABAD (Dunya News) – Member of government’s negotiation team Pervaiz Ilahi on Sunday contacted JUI-F chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman and appealed him to solve the issues through talks.
Sources said Pervaiz Ilahi made a contact with Maulana Fazlur Rehman to discuss the sit-in of JUI-F and Maulana gave a positive signal. Efforts are being made to solve all issues of sit-in through mutual understanding.
Chaudhary Shujjat Hussain also contacted JUI-F head and congratulated him on successful holding of Azadi March. He said 2 big parties of opposition have admitted you as leader.
Ch Shujjat Hussian told Maulana that impact of his talks against Army is not good and he must redress it. He urged him to resolve the issues with a reconciliatory approach.
Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain said Malana Fazlur Rehman is the son of the father, who had political understanding. He said Maulana Mufti Mehmood believed in resolving matters through reconciliation.
Sources said in an important development in the current political scenario, chaudhary brothers will meet Maulana Fazlur Rehman in Islamabad on Monday. Important issues pertaining to current situation in the country would be discussed.
On the other hand an important meeting of JUI-F was held under the chair of Maulana Fazlur Rehman to discuss matters related to Azadi March.
The meeting pondered over the suggestions of Rehbar Committee. Sources said Rehbar Committee of opposition had suggested collective resignations and shutter down strikes.
The government’s negotiation committee also met to discuss the matters as the deadline of JUI-F chief for demands ends today.
The meeting discussed future strategy and re negotiations with opposition. Sources said government is waiting for Maulana Fazl’s address and situation would be clearer after that.
The committee members hoped that JUI-F will stick to the agreement and no undemocratic show would be displayed.
 
