
# One or 100 matches, it is an honour to lead Team India, asserts Rohit Sharma

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:50:00+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/one-or-100-matches-it-is-an-honour-to-lead-team-india-asserts-rohit-sharma?utm_medium=rss)


        Rohit Sharma has stated that it is an absoulote honour for him to lead the Indian team, even though it is for one series. The newly-positioned Indian Test opener has also added that he was personally looking forward to the day-night Test against Bangladesh at the Eden Gardens from November 22.
      
Rohit Sharma's tactical nous as captain has never been understated for the simple fact that he has led Mumbai Indians to four IPL titles, and whenever he was given the responsibility of leading India, he delivered. By guiding India to Asia Cup title in alien conditions of Dubai, Rohit ensured that he had it in him to be the perfect leader of men.
As India are slated to take on Bangladesh in a three-match T20 series, with Virat Kohli rested, Rohit Sharma will lead the side once again. On being asked about if the occasional captaincy duties burden him, the stand-in delivered a punchline.
"These things (captaincy) are not in our hands. One or 100 matches, it is an honour," Rohit said in a promotional event in New Delhi, reported PTI.
"When we were growing up, it was all about playing for the country. I have captained the team and the experience has been good and I don't think about how long I should be made captain. Whenever I get the chance to captain the team, I try and enjoy that."
After the completion of T20I series, India will take on Bangladesh in a two-match Test series, with the second Test at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata being a Day/Night One. While there have been quite a few talks surrounding the impact of dew, Rohit brushed aside the fact and stated that he is personally looking forward to it.
"I am very excited as it is the first time. I can't say about others, but I played one match in Duleep Trophy with the pink ball and it was a good experience. The opportunity has come and will try to do well. I always try to do well and for me, the thought is to not stop. My job is to keep performing and I see it that way. Be it Bangladesh or West Indies after that, or when we go to New Zealand," he said.
