
# BTS singer investigated for car crash

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:48:51+00:00**

Author: **AFP**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2093781/4-bts-singer-investigated-car-crash/)

SEOUL: BTS megastar Jungkook was responsible for a weekend car accident, his K-pop agency admitted Monday, apologising to the victim and his fans.
The singer’s vehicle hit a taxi in Seoul on Saturday, and both he and the cab driver have since been treated for minor injuries, according to police.
The accident happened just days after the finale of BTS lucrative world tour in Seoul.
“Last week, while driving his vehicle, Jungkook hit another car due to his own mistake,” the singer’s agency Big Hit Entertainment said in a statement.
“Immediately after the accident took place, Jungkook admitted he had violated the traffic laws… and reached an amicable settlement with the victim. We once again apologise to the victim. We also apologise to the fans for causing concerns,” the statement further read.
An official from the National Police Agency told AFP that the star was sober when the accident took place, but declined to say what the violation was.
“The investigation is still ongoing and we are trying to find out if both parties are mutually at fault,” the official said.
BTS are the first K-pop group to top charts in the US and Britain, having performed a string of sold-out shows in Los Angeles, Paris, and London’s Wembley Stadium.
The floppy-haired musicians, all in their 20s and often sporting earrings and lipstick, have a global and predominantly youthful fanbase.
