
# NFL Week 9: MVP candidate Deshaun Watson ready to work Wembley magic in final London 2019 game

Published at: **2019-11-03T07:17:55+00:00**

Author: **Jason Bell**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/american-sports/nfl-week-9-mvp-candidate-20800856)

It’s already time for the last London game of the year, and this is a big one between the Jacksonville Jaguars and Houston Texans.
We’re actually really lucky to get this game, because it’s two divisional rivals, and teams always go at it in those games. 
Houston and Jacksonville do not like each other. It’s been that way since I played for the Texans, so these two teams are going to be battling out with a bit of extra edge like they always do.
I’m looking forward to watching MVP candidate Deshaun Watson against this Jacksonville defence. They’re fourth in sacks, so Sacksonville is back, and I’m expecting them to get after Watson.
He’s going to have to make some magic like he always does, make big plays down the field, and this is the perfect game for him to showcase his skills to the London crowd to get the Texans a win.
 
On the other side of the ball, this is the Leonard Fournette show for the Jags. We talk a lot about Gardner Minshew as their new QB, but this offence really runs through Leonard Fournette and his physical running style.
We’re going to see him up against a Texans defence who is in the top five in the league at stopping the run, but can they still play that way without their star man JJ Watt?
 
This is going to be a really tight match-up between two teams who are very similar in terms of their strengths and weaknesses.
I’m expecting a good battle and it’s going to be a great way to wrap up the London games for this year. 
You’re going to be able to watch a guy that’s up there as an MVP candidate right here in London. He can will his team to victory and create things out of nothing.
Back in America, the Baltimore Ravens vs the New England Patriots is the big match-up.
We get to see this electric Ravens offence with Lamar Jackson against a Patriots defence that has been lights-out so far.
The Patriots have been incredible on defence, but they've come in for some criticism for the level of opposition they've played. You can only beat what's put in front of you, but they're going to get their biggest test so far against Lamar Jackson.
The same goes for Lamar Jackson and the Ravens. They've never faced anything like this before, and the Patriots are going to take away what you're good at.
It's like being forced to play left-handed, because you're being forced to do what you're not comfortable with, that's what they do.
This is going to be a defining game for this Patriots defence and Lamar Jackson and his Ravens offence. Both teams are going to get some different things thrown at them, and we’ll see how they respond.
Whatever the outcome, this is a game which is going to teach us a lot about both teams moving forwards.
The Miami Dolphins vs the New York Jets is a classic case of two struggling teams in a match-up that's not going to have any bearing on the play-off picture.
Both sides are already looking to the future, looking to the draft, and just looking to get through this season to be honest.
They've only got one win between them, but as a player, you've got to ignore the situation.
None of that matters for a player, because every time you step out onto the field, that's your resume.
Your game film is all you've got, so everything you do, no matter what's happening with the team, is going to count against you.
If you want to stay in the league a long time, you can't get a reputation as someone who plays down to the level or only succeeds in certain situations.
For the players, these games are as important as any other when it comes to securing your future in the league, even if they might not look like the most important games.
