
# Steven Naismith accuses Hearts players of 'resting on their laurels' as he defends Craig Levein

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:32:57+00:00**

Author: **Gabriel McKay**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/steven-naismith-accuses-hearts-players-20807812)

Steven Naismith has accused certain Hearts players of resting on their laurels, as he defends Craig Levein 's record.
The former Scotland manager was sacked by the club last week, with Austin MacPhee taking charge for the Betfred Cup defeat to Rangers .
Fans had well and truly turned on Levein by the end of his reign, but Naismith feels the injury crisis at Tynecastle and a lack of competition in the squad are mitigating factors.
The 33-year-old said: "Everyone who has an interest in the club, a love for the club, all want the same thing.
"There has been a lot of frustration and anger over the last two or three months.
"But if everyone takes a step back, look at what the fans put into the club, look what the board and Ann (Budge, owner) have done for the club, and us as players now have to show what it means to be at the club for the rest of this season and beyond.
"I still have high hopes as a group of players that we should be pushing up the league.
"That now starts with St Mirren at the weekend and that's what we should focus on.
"The gaffer was unfortunate with injuries over the last year.
"Arguably his five most important players have been out at the start of the season so inevitably, whoever comes in will inherit these boys coming back to fitness and it is a strong position to be in.
"What we have is a decent amount of experienced boys who have probably been through this before and we won't let standards drop, it will be a case of everyone fighting for their places.
"That has been the problem. Too many boys have potentially rested on laurels and expected to be in squads and now boys are coming back to fitness, that is not going to be the case.
"Whoever is in charge in the long run will have decisions to make."
