
# Cruel elephant camp where babies bred to perform are hit with hammers and tugged by ears

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:54:42+00:00**

Author: **Alice Peacock**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/cruel-elephant-camp-babies-bred-20803383)

Dozens of elephants are being abused and kept in captivity in a camp in northern Thailand, where they are bred for the purpose of becoming money-making 'performers'.
The calves are taken away from their mothers when they are just two years old before being forced to learn tricks and perform at Maesa Elephant Nursery.
Footage taken inside the nursery by Moving Animals - a photojournalism and filming project working to expose animal industries around the world - shows the young elephants being struck and scraped by sharp metal bullhooks, tugged by their ears and chained up, swaying in distress.
This kind of abuse is part of the 'phajaan' - the traditional process of breaking a young elephant's spirit.
 
Elephants are bound with ropes, confined in tight wooden structures, starved and beaten repeatedly with bullhooks, nails and hammers until their will is crushed.
Activist Amy Jones said the group's investigations across Asia had repeatedly shown elephants facing "relentless" physical and emotional suffering.
"It is heartbreaking to think that these innocent babies at Maesa Elephant Nursery are at the start of a lifetime of captivity that will feature sharp bullhooks, cruel performances, and severe psychological stress," she said.
“Travel companies are misleading tourists into supporting animal abuse.
"To save another generation of baby elephants from a lifetime of misery, Defra must act now and ban British companies from selling tickets to elephant “attractions”."
 
More than 80 elephants are living in captivity in the camp, which has been running for more than 40 years.
The aim is that they will entertain tourists who come to see the infant elephants at the 'nursery' and watch the older animals perform.
They're taught to paint pictures with their trunks, to throw sharp darts at balloon targets and to kick footballs into goals.
They're also forced to pull and stack heavy logs.
Over 20 animals take part in the performances, which are put on three times a day.
The camp is one of many in which the baby animals are treated poorly.
This year Phuket Zoo's performing baby elephant 'Dumbo' made headlines when he was forced to perform until his back legs snapped beneath him and he died.
There were also concerns about the breeding systems in place in many elephant nurseries.
One adult elephant at the camp had already given birth to six babies.
As elephants spend 18-22 months in pregnancy, the mother elephants often spend a lot of their lives pregnant.
They are often forced to continue to work and perform whilst pregnant.
Moving Animals along with Save the Asian Elephants - a not-for-profit association - are urging Defra to implement a law making it illegal for British companies to advertise or profit from selling tickets to place like Maesa.
The latter is asking individuals to voice their support, by signing a petition here .
