
# Facing Crossmaglen Rangers helped focus Clontibret minds: John McEntee

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **BRENDAN CROSSAN**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/gaafootball/2019/11/05/news/facing-crossmaglen-rangers-helped-focus-clontibret-minds-john-mcentee-1755932/)

WHILE being paired with Crossmaglen Rangers in the opening round of this year's Ulster Club series mightn't have been the draw John McEntee wanted, he believes it was the perfect tie for his Clontibret players.
The Monaghan champions edged out Crossmaglen by the narrowest of margins [0-10 to 0-9] in Saturday night’s provincial quarter-final and will now face Glenties, expected to be Saturday November 17, in the last four.
Clontibret boss McEntee acknowledged it was an emotionally difficult task trying to plot the downfall of his own club, but it was a challenge that focused his players' minds.
“I suppose if we’d faced a lesser renowned team [than Crossmaglen] we maybe wouldn’t have focused as well as we did over the past couple of few days,” McEntee said.
“Clontibret have history in the championship. I suppose they’ve been fortunate enough to win their county championship. We didn’t go in with any expectations in the Ulster campaign. We’d go in and do our best and see what happens.
“What this result means is that it has given us a chance to get back on the championship bandwagon.”
McEntee, who disappeared from view as soon as the final whistle sounded on Saturday night, felt that Crossmaglen’s wastefulness in front of goal gave Clontibret impetus.
“'Cross came very hard at us in the second half,” he said. “They tackled in huge numbers and there was huge intensity in their play and as a result we didn’t have the same control that we had in the first half. I suppose we had to match their intensity.
“We had chances, they had chances... On a different day they could have kicked six or seven [more] points and won the match comfortably.
“I thought ’Cross maybe went for goals too early; they had chances to kick a few points and didn’t.”
