
# Reece James sets Chelsea record with goal in Champions League thriller with Ajax

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:47:07+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/reece-james-sets-chelsea-record-20821622)

Reece James had a night to remember for Chelsea as he became the club's youngest ever goalscorer in the Champions League on Tuesday.
James, 19, came off the bench to score an equaliser for the Blues in their 4-4 draw with Ajax at Stamford Bridge.
XChelsea were trailing last season's semi-finalists 4-1 with just 30 minutes remaining in the game but clawed their way back to secure a memorable point.
Cesar Azpilicueta had started the Premier League club's second-half revival in the 63rd minute before the Dutch champions had both centre-backs sent off in the space of a minute.
The two red cards proved to give Frank Lampard's side the boost they needed and they took full advantage, with Jorginho adding his second goal from the penalty spot in the 71st minute before James completed the comeback moments later.
It was the defender's first goal in the Champions League and saw him book his place in Chelsea history books as he became the club's youngest scorer in the competition.
James, who scored at the age of 19 years 332 days old, beat the previous record set by Arjen Robben.
The former Real Madrid and Bayern Munich winger netted his first Champions League for the Blues against CSKA Moscow in November 2004, while he was aged 20 years, 284 days.
Chelsea thought they had netted a winner late on, but VAR ruled out Azpilicueta's effort after Tammy Abraham was seen to have handled the ball in the build-up.
"It was a crazy game," James told BT Sport .
"They were hard to break down and we took advantage of them going down to nine men, it was a shame we couldn't win."
"Scoring a goal is a bonus. The manager told me to come on and liven the boys up, we had chances to win it but from where we were at halftime it's a good result."
The draw leaves Chelsea in a three-way tie with Ajax and Valencia a the top of Group H, with each side on seven points.
Lampard's side travel to the Spanish side in their next game in the competition, who beat Lille 4-1, but face league Crystal Palace and Manchester City in the league before then.
