
# Highest accolade for coastguards and volunteers who braved cliffhanger rescue

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:16:42+00:00**

Author: **Charlie Gall, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/charlie-gall/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/highest-accolade-coastguards-volunteers-who-20824262)

Heroic islanders have received HM Coastguard’s highest national accolade for a cliffhanger race-against-time rescue.
Rescue services, including many volunteers, saved a teenager trapped at the bottom of a 130ft cliff as the tide came in.
The after-dark drama unfolded on May 9 last year (2018) at the dangerous Fethaland on the north tip of mainland Shetland.
A young man was cragfast for four hours. His friend had managed to scramble back up to raise the alarm and trigger a land,sea and air operation.
Coastguard teams from Lerwick, Hillswick and Sumburgh, coastguard search and rescue helicopter and RNLI volunteers were scrambled.
The coastguard operations centre in Shetland coordinated the successful emergency response.
Now Shetland has been awarded the prestigious Department for Transport Rescue Shield given to coastguards performing the year’s most outstanding rescue.
It’s the sixth time that Shetland-based teams have been presented with the shield.
It was handed over by Brian Johnson, chief executive of the Maritime and Coastguard Agency.
The rescuers worked in darkness battling gales, rough seas and a rising tide to reach the stranded climber.
Johnson said yesterday (Wed): “This was the most difficult rescue in the year in the whole of the coastguard services.
“It’s a really big deal. The circumstances included coordination of volunteers, scaling cliffs, and helicopter and a lifeboat.
“This was real coordination from the community from a number of emergency services in a quite extraordinary rescue.”
Dave Sweeney, Shetland’s senior coastal operations officer, said rescue teams navigated difficult terrain in appalling conditions on the narrow headland.
The helicopter and Aith lifeboat used their night lights to illuminate the cliff-face for brave rescuer Jamie Newlands.
He descended the cliff in storm force winds, rain and heavy squalls from the incoming tide to recover the casualty to the top.
He was winched aboard the helicopter winched and taken to a waiting ambulance at Tingwall Airport.
Despite being mildly hypothermic due to exposure the teenager was otherwise uninjured.
Sweeney said: “As emergency response teams we rely heavily on each other to achieve success and this case was a prime example of that.
“It was a challenging rescue and we needed all our teams’ shared expertise and resources to safely rescue the teenager.
“It was teamwork at its best. We’re honoured to be awarded for our efforts on this particular rescue.
“It’s a mark of recognition for all the work and dedication of the front line volunteers, paid crew members and behind-the-scenes teams that help us all save lives together.”
