
# Brit DNA breakthrough will save thousands of kids from killer diseases

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:58:24+00:00**

Author: **Martin Bagot, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/Martin_Bagot/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/brit-dna-breakthrough-save-thousands-20819891)

A DNA test for newborns that predicts risk of serious and rare health conditions could save 3,000 kids a year.
It will allow early treatment to make life-threatening ailments including cystic fibrosis and severe epilepsy less debilitating.
And it could even stop some conditions taking a grip. If a pilot proves successful, the NHS will roll out the “whole genomic sequencing” scheme nationwide in a world first.
Tots already helped by the Genomics England project’s work include Owen Everitt, five.
Professor Mark Caulfield said: “A third of children with a rare disease will die before their fifth birthday. We want to change that and change it for ever.”
The test pioneered in the UK is poised to achieve a world first in a “mission to do genetics that transforms healthcare”.
A pilot scheme will give newborns a screening to flag up any risk of serious and rare conditions.
 
Early treatment could make them less debilitating or life-threatening – or even prevent them.
Of the 700,000 babies born in the UK every year, one in 260 will develop a serious rare disease in their first five years that could be tackled.
The “whole genomic sequencing” test will be given to 20,000 babies to identify conditions “highly likely” to develop before they are five.
And researchers estimate the process could eventually help 3,000 newborns a year.
Prof Caulfield, chief scientist at Genomics England, said: “What we want to show is there is a new opportunity for children in our nation to have something that stops some of the worst diseases."
The DNA test, costing just under £1,000, will be offered alongside the current heel prick test.
If successful, the NHS will roll it out in as little as three years in a world-first move.
The heel prick test can only flag nine conditions, including sickle cell disease. But genome testing will find scores more that can be treated or reversed with “transformative” drugs – or even simple supplements.
Some forms of epilepsy could be tackled to help prevent permanent brain damage using just a 6p vitamin pill.
Prof Caulfield said: “A form of epilepsy is responsive to vitamin B6. If I said, ‘Your child could by taking vitamin B6 avoid this problem’, you would probably give it to them. These are the kind of examples. It could alter their life course.”
Genomics England is a private firm owned by the Government, working with universities and pharma. Boss Chris Wigley said: “There are 3,000 people a year whose lives we could transform.
“That’s just in early onset cases. Someone may 25 years later develop another problem. We can use the same data to assess [them]. The benefits can play out over the course of someone’s life.”
 
Prof Caulfield added: “Our mission is to do genetics that transforms healthcare.”
The technology was discussed at the Genomics England Research Conference in Westminster this week, where Health Secretary Matt Hancock said we are the “cusp of a healthcare revolution”.
Owen Everitt’s life was transformed by the whole genome test.
The five-year-old had spent years having tests and procedures to understand why he was not growing and was unable to walk or talk properly.
They included steroid trials, blood transfusions and growth hormone injections. His parents feared that he would be severely disabled and possibly not even see adulthood.
Mum Sarah said: “At six months he wasn’t sitting up and then he wasn’t even beginning to babble or talk. That’s when I had real concerns.”
Dad Robert said: “He had a lot of appointments and some were quite invasive. We were told sometimes people just never get a diagnosis.”
Medics had no idea what was causing Owen’s poor development and by four and a half he struggled to walk unaided and could say just 20 to 30 words.
He joined the 100,000 Genomes project, which sequenced his entire genome and found he had trouble processing thyroid hormones.
The DNA test discovered a mutation in the THRA gene – which has only been successfully diagnosed in 30 people worldwide.
Owen was given a thyroid hormone tablet called thyroxine, which he takes daily, and his condition has improved dramatically. His walking and coordination is better, he has grown significantly and he has more energy.
Sarah said: “This was transformational. You put your life on hold. You think, ‘What’s going on with my child?’ and you have no answers.
“When we did get some answers it was amazing. I just want Owen to have a full and fulfilling life. He has the best chance now.”
