
# Emmerdale hints Graham Foster will be killed off as his exit storyline is teased

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:24:47+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/emmerdale-hints-graham-foster-killed-20827581)

Emmerdale aired worrying hints about Graham Foster's fate on Wednesday, as it was teased Kim Tate was planning to have her ex killed.
It wouldn't be the first time she ordered the death of someone in the village, previously asking Graham to kill Joe Tate a year ago - not to mention her causing the death of her ex-husband Frank Tate years ago.
It was confirmed this week that Andrew Scarborough, who plays Graham, would be bowing out of the ITV soap in the new year.
Now, amid drama between Kim and Graham, fans are predicting a death will hit the village next year.
This week saw Kim take away all of Graham's privileges from the business - with him having been her right hand man for years - after learning of his new romance with Rhona Goskirk.
She was jealous, hoping to reignite their own romance, but he then dropped another bombshell revealing her son Jamie Tate was the one who gave the police the evidence they needed to send her to prison.
While she made it up with Jamie, she's not keen to let things go with Graham.
Viewers speculated whether Graham would seek revenge over her treatment of him, ahead of his exit from the soap.
Now, others are speculating Kim might in fact have Graham killed for, in her eyes, betraying her.
In the latest episode, Kim appeared to hint this could be the case as she pressed on with her plan to get rid of him.
She told Al Chapman: "He tried to rip my family apart and he's gonna pay the price for that."
Kim then made reference to giving Al a bigger role in the business "when Graham is out of the picture".
Viewers are now questioning how Kim plans to get rid of Graham, and what this will mean for Rhona.
Fans of the ITV soap will have to stay tuned to find out what happens in the weeks leading up to his departure from the village.

        Emmerdale airs weeknights at 7pm on ITV, with an extra episode at 8pm on Thursdays.
      
