
# The biggest changes coming to Diablo 4

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:38:26+00:00**

Author: **Austen Goslin**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/1/20944241/diablo-4-blizzcon-features-druid-sorceress-barbarian-skill-tree)

Diablo 4 was one of Blizzard’s big announcements at BlizzCon 2019. But during the opening ceremony, Blizzard only showed off a little bit of the game. As part of the Diablo 4 panel that followed the ceremony, some of the members of the development team were able to shine a light on some of the game’s other features.
Here are all the biggest differences you can expect between Diablo 3 and Diablo 4.
More character classes are probably on the way, but for now, Blizzard has revealed three classes for the game, and even given us a short teaser, showing what each class is capable of.
Druids can summon animal companions to help do their bidding and take out their foes. They can also use their caster form to control the elements, creating things like tornadoes, and lighting storms. But the most important ability that Druids have is shapeshifting. Through shapeshifting, Druids can transform into a werewolf and even a werebear — those are the two things Blizzard has shown so far. These transformations take place instantly and will let players string together abilities from different forms all in the same fight. The Druid was last seen in Diablo 2.
This class is exactly the kind of magic user you expect them to be. They can call down massive blizzards to slow their enemies and weaken them, attack with one massive fireball, or call down a rain of them to hurt several enemies at once. This time around, Sorcerers and Sorceresses can even transform into a ball of lighting and rush through the enemies around them. They seem to closely mimic that of the Mage in Diablo 3.
Barbarians have changed quite a bit from their Diablo 3 counterparts. While they’ll still maintain some of the big, brooding abilities they used in the previous game, Diablo 4 turns the Barbarian into a master of any weapon. And to fully show off that mastery, the game will let Barbarians equip different weapon builds all at the same time. This means you could switch between one and two handed builds in the middle of combat, and even equip four different weapons at once.
