
# Up in smoke: Imperial Brands profit shrinks as regulators knock vaping

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:33:22+00:00**

Author: **Joe Curtis**

Original: [City A.M.](https://www.cityam.com/up-in-smoke-imperial-brands-profit-shrinks-as-regulators-knock-vaping/)

Imperial Brands blamed “tough trading” in its vaping division after full-year profits slipped and shareholders saw earnings per share fall by a quarter.
Operating profit fell 8.7 per cent to £2.2bn in the 12 months to the end of September.
That came despite a 5.1 per cent rise in revenue to £31.59bn. Earnings per share sank 26.2 per cent to 106p, down from 2018’s 143.6p.
Its NGP line revenue posted growth of 52.4 per cent to £285m, while tobacco net revenue rose 2.7 per cent to £7.7bn.
Meanwhile net debt ticked up by £71m year on year to £11.97bn.
The results won’t come as much of a surprise for many.
In late September, shares in the tobacco giant fell 13 per cent after the company issued a profits warning on the back of a US-led backlash against vaping.
Prior to the September warning, Imperial Brands had already refined its dividend policy, abandoning a plan to increase the shareholder distribution at a trend rate of 10% a year.
A week later chief executive Alison Cooper, who had been with the cigarette manufacturer for 20 years, announced that she would step down after nine years in the role.
Last week US tobacco company Altria reported a $4.5bn (£3.5bn) loss in the third quarter of 2019, driven by its 35 per cent stake in Juul, as the e-cigarette maker’s products were banned in several cities and states.
Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell, said: “At least this means the bar of expectations has been set fairly low for these results from the owner of the JPS, Gauloises, Davidoff and Golden Virginia brands.”
Outgoing CEO Alison Cooper said:
