
# Dave Cormack makes Celtic and Rangers cash claim as Aberdeen chief sends warning to rivals

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Burns, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/scott-burns/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/celtic-rangers-arms-race-aberdeen-20818955)

Dave Cormack reckons Glasgow’s giants are in the midst of an arms race – but the Pittodrie powerbroker warned that Aberdeen are on a war footing too.
Rangers and Celtic splashed out £7million apiece on Ryan Kent and Christopher Jullien respectively in a busy transfer window before the season started.
By comparison, Dons boss Derek McInnes’ only outlay was the £125,000 spent on Funso Ojo.
Vice-chairman Cormack accepts it is impossible for his club to compete at the stakes the Old Firm are dealing in.
But he is adamant Aberdeen’s football budget has also risen significantly and should be better than anything outside of the big two. An increased wage budget not only helped McInnes keep hold of top players, it aided in the recruitment of the likes of Ryan Hedges and Craig Bryson.
US-based tycoon Cormack said: “There is a bit of an arms race between Celtic and Rangers with Rangers coming back up and spending money.
“Celtic have upped the ante as well and those are tough things to compete with – and so are we. Some people think we have skimped on the football operations budget to take the money for the training ground.
“That was never the case because we are up significantly on our football wage bill over the last three years. The budgets for both were separated. The most important thing for us is we have a longer-term vision and we have mapped out our goals for the club to be competitive.
“Clearly, even with a £9m wage bill, compared to Celtic’s £60m it dwarves what we do. Although it is better than what some of the other teams have.
“For us to compete on the pitch our goal has to be to put as much as we can, while being sensible, into the football budget.
“We want to get into that top 100 in Europe and to be regularly competing for trophies.”
Aberdeen’s four-year stranglehold on second place ended last term as they finished fourth.
Europa League nights were still seen in the Granite City for a sixth season in a row, although Cormack admits making it through brutal qualifying must be their next sign of progress.
He said: “Football has changed but we have an appetite here at Aberdeen for European football and it doesn’t need to be Barcelona, Real Madrid or Bayern Munich to turn up these days.
“We have an aspiration to get to the group stage of the Europa League. In 2008, we had one qualifying round when Jimmy Calderwood was here.
“We now have to get through four and that is particularly tough. But we have an aspiration to be a top-100 club in Europe.
“We have made some progress and now we are about 170. But if we can get to the group stage on a regular basis then we will absolutely be in that top 100.”
