
# Rakul Preet reacts to dating Rana Daggubati: When I became friends with him, he was in a relationship

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:34:19+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/rakul-preet-reacts-to-dating-rana-daggubati-when-i-became-friends-with-him-he-was-in-a-relationship/articleshow/71934987.cms)

Rakul Preet Singh and Rana Daggubati are thick friends and there have been a lot of rumours of the two being in a relationship. However the actress has maintained that she is single and recently reacted to being linked to Rana. On a chat show, Rakul revealed that when she became friends with Rana Daggubati, he was already in a relationship. She went on add that they have been friends since her first film and are a close gang which also includes South actress Lakshmi Manchu. Beyond friends, Rana and Rakul are apparently neighbours and the actress insists that there is nothing cooking between them.
Rakul is currently busy with the promotions of her upcoming film ‘Marjaavaan’, which features Sidharth Malhotra and Tara Sutaria as the leads. Rakul is working with Sidharth for a second time after sharing the frame in ‘Aiyaary’. The romantic revenge thriller is scheduled to hit the screens on November 22.
Rakul will next romance Arjun Kapoor in a yet untitled project, which will mark the directorial debut of Kaashvie Nair. The coming-of-age, cross border love story will be shot extensively in Punjab and Los Angeles. The film is scheduled to go on floors this month and will be produced by Bhushan Kumar, Krishan Kumar, Monisha Advani, Madhu Bhojwani, Nikkhil Advani and John Abraham.
