
# Lady Hermon's withdrawal from Westminster race leaves pro-Remain supporters dismayed

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **JOHN MANLEY**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/07/news/lady-hermon-s-withdrawal-from-westminster-race-leaves-pro-remain-supporters-dismayed-1758721/)

LADY Sylvia Hermon's bombshell announcement that she will not defend her seat has boosted the prospects of a DUP victory in North Down.
The one-time Ulster Unionist's withdrawal from the Westminster race leaves the constituency's pro-Remain majority without a single candidate to rally around.
In the coming days efforts are expected to be made to find an agreed pro-European candidate for the seat, however, it seems unlikely anybody with a suitable profile and the support of all anti-Brexit parties can be found.
Sinn Féin and the SDLP have already agreed to stand aside in the constituency, a move largely based on the assumption that Lady Hermon would contest the seat.
But last night in an announcement that dismayed many of those in the north opposed to Brexit, the 64-year-old said she would not be seeking re-election in the seat she first took in 2001.
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
"Serving as an MP is a tremendous privilege, and I remain profoundly grateful to all those who placed their trust and confidence in me in the last five general elections," she said.
"It has undoubtedly been the greatest honour of my life to serve the people of North Down as their Member of Parliament since 2001, and so it is with enormous sadness that I have decided not to contest the next general election in December."
Lady Hermon, who was married to the late RUC chief constable Sir Jack Hermon, left the Ulster Unionists in 2010 after the party formalised links with the Tories.
Representing one of the north's most affluent constituencies, she was resolute in her opposition to a no-deal Brexit.
"This has been a particularly difficult decision but, after much thought, I have concluded that it is the right decision for my family and for me at this time," she said.
"During my 18 years as an MP, I have tried hard to balance public and family responsibilities. I owe my family a huge debt of gratitude for allowing me, without ever a word of reproach, to spend so much time at Westminster; they understood how much joy and satisfaction I had from working on behalf of others."
She apologised for any disappointment caused to constituents who had urged her to stand again for re-election.
Sinn Féin MP Michelle Gildernew described Lady Hermon as a "diligent representative for the people of North Down".
"While we held different political perspectives, I found her to be someone who acted at all times with respect and integrity," she said.
SDLP leader Colum Eastwood described her as an "MP of immense conviction".
"Pro-Remain parties need to take some breathing space, analyse the results in North Down over the last number of elections at assembly level, Westminster and others to determine how best to challenge a hard Brexit candidate," he said.
Ulster Unionist leader designate Steve Aiken said Lady Hermon had "served unionism and North Down with distinction".
"She is a dedicated public servant who treated her constituents with respect and integrity," he said.
