
# SpaceX Planning To Launch 30,000 Additional Starlink Global Internet Satellites

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ilker Koksal**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ilkerkoksal/2019/11/02/spacex-planning-to-launch-30000-additional-starlink-global-internet-satellites/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

The Space Exploration Technologies Corp. known as SpaceX has recently filed the paperwork to send 30,000 new satellites to the sky. The official paperwork was filed with the International Telecommunication Union and it is expected to be fulfilled soon.SpaceX Mission in the Sky
Elon Musk’s SpaceX already has the permission to launch 12,000 new satellites into space and they have filed the paperwork for 30,000 more. The company is planning to launch such an such enormous amount of satellites to ensure that the their network can meet the upcoming demand.
“As demand escalates for fast, reliable internet around the world, especially for those where connectivity is non-existent, too expensive or unreliable, SpaceX is taking steps to responsibly scale Starlink’s total network capacity and data density to meet the growth in users’ anticipated needs,” wrote a SpaceX spokesperson for TechCrunch.
Judging by their recent moves, SpaceX is preparing for a drastic increase in the demand for improvements of the network regarding low-latency and high-capacity. The first launch of Starlink global internet satellites will only cover a small fraction of this demand it will be an important step toward the overall goal.
It is important to emphasize that the launching of all 30,000 satellites is going to be a slow process. In fact, SpaceX is planning to send only a few hundred satellites into space in 2020, whereas the rest will be launched based on the demand.
Moreover, the company has announced that Starlink will initially provide service in select areas including northern US and some parts of Canada. The network will go live early in 2020 and it is expected to expand throughout the year.
SpaceX has opened up about their plans to scale the network on a global level to eventually provide global coverage. The scaling process should be complete over the course of 24 launches of Starlink satellites.

        Affecting Stellar Observations and Research
      
Besides preparing their Starlink satellites for high-traffic operation, the company is going to leave a drastic impact on the orbital population. There are around 8,000 objects currently floating in space. With that in mind, SpaceX is going to leave a drastic impact on how space is viewed from the Earth.
The company is not going to operate all their satellites in the same orbital region to avoid any interference with scientific research and observation. In addition, SpaceX teams are actively addressing the common concerns from astronomers regarding the buildup of satellites in space.
To solve this problem, SpaceX is turning back all the Earth-facing Starlink satellites. The company is also planning to build an automated collision avoidance system to avoid additional issues.
With all the recent innovations and plans to globalize their Starlink network, SpaceX is definitely exceeding the industry standards. The first 60 Starlink satellites were launched back in May, 2019 and Elon Musk has recently sent a tweet through one of them. This marks the beginning of what could be the next space revolution.
