
# An Ode To The ‘NCIS’ Theme Song And Its Many Turbo YouTube Remixes

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:01:21+00:00**

Author: **Jared Richards**

Original: [Junkee](https://junkee.com/ncis-theme-remix-best/227160)

NCIS is currently in its seventeenth season, despite there being no evidence that anyone has once tuned in on purpose. No one ‘watches’ NCIS (except Trump voters, apparently); it simply happens in front of you, reaching out from the TV, the Videodrome of crime procedurals.
The show’s theme song, however, does not simply happen. An intense psy-trance trackwritten by Numeriklab (who seem to have done nothing else), the ‘NCIS Theme’ pulsates with way too much energy for this show.
The theme is better suited to a cybergoth day-rave under a bridge than the opening to a show about internal US Navy crime investigations. Thankfully, the conceptual approach behind the two-disc approach of NCIS: The Official TV Soundtrack (Volume One) provides context.
While Disc 1, called ‘Special Agent’, offers songs from Oasis, Bob Dylan and Dashboard Confessional, Disc 2, ‘Abby’s Lab’, is inspired by Pauly Perrette’s goth forensic character. The theme, then, is something Abby would listen to. Abby was the differing element between the show and the thousands of its kind, including JAG, which is where it spun off from — so it makes sense they signpost that right from the start of the show.
Abby is now gone, as Perrette said goodbye to the show in 2018 after suggesting a series of ‘physical assaults’ led her to leave. But NCIS continues.
So in ode to Perrette’s character, put on your best baggy chained pants and listen to the best NCIS remixes while drinking a slurpee and thinking about how NCIS was originally called ‘Navy NCIS’, aka ‘Navy Naval Criminal Investigative Service’.
