
# Utah educators suspended after student wears Nazi costume in Halloween

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bailey Vogt**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/5/utah-educators-suspended-after-student-wears-nazi-/)

A Utah elementary school principal and teacher have been suspended with pay after a photo of a child walking in the school’s Halloween parade in a Nazi costume went viral.
The Davis County School District — located just outside of Salt Lake City — apologized for the Creekside Elementary’s student’s costume, which included tan pants and a red armband with what appears to be a hand-drawn swastika.
“[The district] does not tolerate speech, images or conduct that portray or promote hate in any form,” the statement read, according to The Salt Lake Tribune. “The district is taking the matter very seriously and is investigating every aspect of the situation.”
While the school chose not to name the educators suspended, the principal of the school is listed as Steve B. Hammer on their website.
The Davis County School District has faced accusations of racism and insensitivity in the past.
The district paid a family $62,500 in July to settle a lawsuit alleging a school bus driver committed a “racial assault” in May by closing the doors on a biracial student and continuing to drive.
Another district teacher apologized in March after she forced a Catholic student to remove the Ash Wednesday cross on his forehead, saying she was unaware it was a religious representation.
 

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
