
# Amy Robach’s Journey to the TCS New York City Marathon: Exclusive Interview with the ABC News Co-Anchor

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rachel Chang**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/rachelchang1/2019/11/01/amy-robachs-journey-to-the-tcs-new-york-city-marathon-exclusive-interview-with-the-abc-news-co-anchor/)

When the 50,000 runners gather in Staten Island the morning of Sunday, November 3, at the start line of the 2019 TCS New York City Marathon, it’s a journalist’s dream come true. After all, with participants coming from more than 125 different countries and all walks of life for a common goal to finish 26.2 miles, the stories behind every participant is news-worthy.But for one of those runners, that’s the biggest role reversal of all. Throughout her career, Amy Robach has interviewed notable personalities ranging from Barack Obama to Prince Harry — and two weeks ago, she made headlines for her high-profile sit-down with Hunter Biden, as the current co-anchor of ABC’s 20/20.
Somehow, between her crazy schedule — often having to wake up early for Good Morning America and work late for ABC News, the 46-year-old managed to squeeze in proper marathon training as she prepares to tackle her first-ever marathon, alongside her husband, actor Andrew Shue of Melrose Place fame this weekend.
Here’s how the breast cancer survivor and working mother has made her way to the final week of marathon training.

        She’s Been Running Four Days a Week for 18 Weeks
      
Although Robach has been running since high school, she hadn’t really ever run more than three to five miles. But to prepare for the TCS New York City Marathon, she started going the distance this summer, checking off three half marathons and two 10Ks along the way. 
“It definitely takes a lot of planning and looking at my calendar at the start of every week, carefully scheduling runs around work and other commitments,” she admits. “I use the Hal Higdon method for Novice 1. It’s 18 weeks with four days a week of running, two days a week of cross training and one day of rest.”
With her plan, the long runs reach distances as long as 20 miles, so she’s had to also invest time in a healthy balance around that. “I have been getting a foot and leg massage once a week and have definitely had to consume more calories with the long runs,” Robach says.
Since the summer, she’s simply prioritized running into her life: “I’ve been doing this for 18 weeks, so I’m not sure what I’m going to do with my free time after Sunday!

        Robach’s Husband Andrew Shue Has Been By Her Side
      
While training can often feel like an isolating experience, Robach has had Shue along with her every step of the way since he’ll be running the race as well. “It’s been an incredible bonding experience for us,” she says. “We’ve had a lot of fun training together.”
 Their schedules often send them in different directions, but they still keep each other accountable. “Even when we are apart, we send pictures of our training runs to each other to stay motivated and on track,” Robach adds.  
And on Sunday, they’ll be crossing the finish line together. “Although I told him to run at his own pace, he decided he wants to stick with me and run by my side.”
As the mother of two and stepmother of three, the kids have pretty much separated themselves from their parents pursuits. “There’s been little to no reaction to our marathon training from the three teenagers we have in the house right now,” Robach admits. “However, they have told us that they will cheer us along from the sidelines with signs!”

        The Breast Cancer Survivor Has Also Summited Mount Kilimanjaro
      
After being encouraged to do a live mammogram on Good Morning America by cancer survivor Robin Roberts, Roach discovered she had breast cancer in 2013. 
She ended up having a double mastectomy — and part of the reason she’s running this marathon is that it takes place on a special date. “The race on November 3 falls just four days after the six-year anniversary of my breast cancer diagnosis,” Robach says. “While running, I’ll be remembering how far I’ve come and how amazing it is to feel my own strength and trust my body again.”
This isn’t the first time she’s challenged herself physically. She also summited Mount Kilimanjaro last fall. These grueling feats aren’t just for herself: “At the same time, I will be thinking about all of the women and men who are still fighting their fight and I will be running for them as well.”

        She Stays Motivated with Power Anthems — and Oprah!
      
During the race itself, Robach will have her earphones in. “I have a four-and-a-half hour playlist so it’s going to be all music on marathon day,” she says. “I’m starting my race listening to The Band Perry’s ‘Pioneer’ — that’s the song I listened to as I went under anesthesia for my double mastectomy. I am going to cross the finish line listening to ‘This is the Moment’ from Jekyll & Hyde.” 
But during the 18 weeks, she didn’t always listen to tunes. “During my training run, I have been listening to podcasts, mainly Oprah’s SuperSoul Conversations,” Robach says. “I have gone through the whole audio book of Eckhart Tolle’s A New Earth and I’m already a third of the way through Gabrielle Bernstein’s audiobook Super Attractor.”

        She’s Found the True Meaning of Running
      
Already having conquered so many physical challenges and also finding the right sources of motivation, Robach is psyched for the starting line — as well as the post-race celebrations. “It is shocking how incredible the human body is,” she says. “If you train correctly, you could run 20 miles and not be super sore the next day. It’s also shocking how incredibly hungry I am all the time. Ravenous. I’m nervous and excited. I’m just trying to trust in my training and believe I am ready to do this! After the race I’m going out downtown with friends to raise a glass or two.
But more than anything, she’s come to realize that it’s the journey that the training has taken her on that truly means the most. “I’ve learned that it’s not about marathon day or crossing the finish line,” Robach says. “It’s about putting in the work, believing in yourself and enjoying every single mile running alongside people I love.”
 New two-hour episodes of 20/20 air Fridays at 9 p.m. ET on ABC.
