
# Reference committee releases 12 recommendations to reform Sask. education system

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:40:23+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Ackerman**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/local-news/reference-committee-releases-12-recommendations-to-reform-sask-education-system)

The Saskatchewan public education system is in desperate need of a reset, says a report from the Re-Imagine Education Reference Committee which included 12 recommendations and was released Monday.
“The system’s old. I think it served a purpose in the past. It met a lot of needs 50, 60 years ago, but we’re not there anymore and our times are changing much more quickly than we’re able to adapt,” said Monica Kreuger, first vice chair of the Saskatchewan Chamber of Commerce.
The chamber was one of 20 community-based organizations that made up the committee, which also included groups like the Saskatchewan Human Rights Commission and the Regina Anti-Poverty Ministry.
The “12 Actions for Education” fall into four focus areas: the learning environment, decision-making in education, legislation and policy in education, and funding education.
The recommendations are based on consultations held in 204 schools in 69 different communities — where students, teachers, parents, Indigenous communities and leaders, the business community and other interested groups got to share their vision for the future of public education in Saskatchewan.
In addition to the consultations, 6,000 people also completed a public survey.
“I think the biggest surprise was the feeling by many parents and public members that they aren’t engaged,” said Randy Schmaltz, chair of the committee and executive director of the Saskatchewan Teachers’ Federation (STF). “The system doesn’t include their input and their voice, and so one of the big takeaways for the reference committee was the desire to shine a light on the need for community voice and public input into decision making.”
Recommendations range from creating safe and effective learning environments that include human resources to provide support, including Indigenous elders and speech pathologists, to continually updating the curriculum and developing school policies in collaboration with staff, parents and students.
Recommendation No. 11 calls for a comprehensive study to determine the “real costs of a quality education system that fits for the 21st century and commit to a long-term funding mechanism to ensure students receive a quality education.”
“I think that’s where we have to start,” said Kreuger. “We need to go back into the community and talk about what does that look like and get a few more parameters down and then we need to bring those back to government.”
The Ministry of Education is currently working on a framework for a new provincial education plan that with lay out direction for the next 10 years, according to Minister of Education Gord Wyant.
“This framework, as well as the findings in Re-Imagine Education, will help us build the provincial education plan which we hope to implement by the fall of 2020,” said Wyant from the release event Monday.
He said the ministry will be reading through the report in detail “over the next short period of time.”
While there’s been no shortage of good ideas over the years when it comes to improving public education in Saskatchewan, Schmaltz said what has sometimes been missing is the political will to work on them.
“What we’re really seeking through Re-Imagine Education is a compelling reason for government to listen to the wishes and hopes for the future of education,” he said.
For Kreuger, the revamp is about working to fit the ever-changing needs of diverse classrooms and provide the supports needed for all learning types and abilities, supports that weren’t there for her husband when he struggled to finish Grade 12 and still weren’t there when two of her four kids faced similar challenges in the school system.
But the recommendations, none of which are particularly new ideas, need action to make a difference, says the report. Recommendation No. 12 calls for just that: “We are all accountable. Government policy-makers and traditional leaders, parents, community groups and the public share the responsibility of ensuring that conversations about the future of education continue and that decision makers are held accountable.”
It’s going to take time and work, said Kreuger.
“People are going to have to roll up their sleeves and we’re going to have to sit at a table and have many conversations that may not always be easy,” she said. “But change is not easy.”
To read the full report and its recommendations, visit www.reimagineeducation.ca.

        jackerman@postmedia.com
      
