
# Whatcha been playing this week, Destructoid?

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Moyse**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/whatcha-been-playing-this-week-destructoid--571043.phtml)

I got sick this week. Real sick. Maybe it was something to do with the changing season, or maybe something I ate, or maybe a heightened period of worries that made me vulnerable, but by Wednesday I was a uncontrollably shivering wreck, requiring some pretty hardcore meds. As such, I'm operating at a quarter level of my usual self, good and ready to write everything about this past week off. Fortunately, it is the weekend, and that means however this week has played out for you personally, each and every one of us can hit the reset button, learn a little from the previous seven days, look back on our positives, forget our negatives, and move into the month of November full of vim and vigor. However you're feeling about yourself, know that I believe in you.Naturally, I haven't played much this week, but I have recently started up Night School Studio's Afterparty (review coming soon) which unfortunately got put on the back burner at launch due to other commitments, but the pub crawl from Hell is looks like a laugh, and I'm looking forward to sharing my thoughts.How about all of you? As always, we on site and the rest of our community love hearing about the games you've been playing this week. Perhaps you've hit some of the new winter releases, or dipped into a tomb of terror to celebrate Halloween. There's certainly a lot on the market right now, so drop us a note below and fill us in on all the scoops from your homestead.Have a wonderful weekend, from all of us at Destructoid.
