
# Guide: Pokémon GO 'A Colossal Discovery' - Regigigas Quest Walkthrough and All About Pokémon GO's First Global Premium Event

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Woor**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/guide_pokemon_go_a_colossal_discovery_-_regigigas_quest_walkthrough_and_all_about_pokemon_gos_first_global_premium_event)

Pokémon GO has held its first global premium event – a paid, ticketed event that could be played anywhere in the world, giving yexclusive early and easy access to the legendary Pokémon Regigas and a raft of other perks.

        Tickets are no longer on sale and the premium ticket event has concluded in all time-zones.
      
Our guide covers a full walkthrough for the ‘A Colossal Discovery’ special research quest for those who haven't yet completed the research quest, as well recap of everything you needed to know to participate in the event. We also cover where Regigigas will be available, post-event

            How to Get Regigigas in Pokémon GO – ‘A Colossal Discovery’ Walkthrough
          

            Free Event Details – November 1 to November 4
          

            What Did ‘A Colossal Discovery’ Ticket Get You?
          
With event distribution concluded in all timezones, you may still need to know the contents of upcoming steps (assuming you haven't yet finished the quest).
During the event hours, Regirock, Regice and Registeel will be found in high numbers as five-star raids – they will be your main target during this event, with the additional requirement of catching and evolving a number of Pokémon at each stage – Rock-type in this instance.
(Advice upfront: you are going to need to have all three Regis for step four – so if possible, prioritise getting at least one of each with your extra raid passes).
Step 2 sees you repeat very similar steps to the above, only with ice-type Pokémon in quests and rewards.
Step 3 is the same again, though steel-type Pokémon are involved here.
We are anticipating a change to be made to the requirements (and potentially the rewards) for the quest once the free event concludes on November 4th. Please check back for more updates when further information is available.
Significantly, Niantic have confirmed that Regigigas will start appearing in the high-difficulty EX Raid series ‘in November’, meaning that there is still a free route to obtaining the Pokémon (though the premium pass gets your access sooner and far more easily considering the difficulty and selection criteria of EX Raids).
To accompany the release of ‘A Colossal Discovery’, Niantic are running a commemorative event for all players, focused around the Regi-Trio that Regigigas is considered the ‘trio master’ of. This will run from Friday, November 1 2019 at 13:00 to Monday, November 4 2019 at 13:00 PDT
The legendary titans, commonly called the Regi Trio or ‘Regis’ will appear for everyone to catch in 5-star raids. In the mainline games these three Pokémon are usually involved in the process of catching Regigigas, hence their involvement in this event. Their types and type weaknesses are as follows:
All three legendaries will also appear in shiny form for the first time.
Billed as Pokémon that are good counters to the Regi-trio, expect to see more Geodudes, Magnemites, Swinubs, Arons and Spheals in the wild. Aerodactyl, Shuckle, Sneasel, Skarmory, Snorunt and Beldum will be hatching more frequently in eggs.
Once the pass was purchased, players had to open Pokémon GO between Saturday, November 2 2019 from 11:00 to 19:00 local time to receive the ‘A Colossal Discovery’ Special Research quest. As with all Special Research quests, you can take as long as you want to complete the ’A Colossal Discovery’ story, though bear in mind that specific tasks may be more difficult as changes are made to the game through the year.
In their announcement blogpost, Niantic recommended "trying your best to complete the research on Saturday, November 2, 2019, from 11:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. in your local time zone", "for an optimal gameplay experience".
The ticket was priced at $7.99/£7.99 and for the first time, had to be purchased with real world currency (not the in-game currency – Pokécoins – which are partly available for free).
The tickets could be found in the in-game shop. In the main Poké-ball menu, hit ‘shop’ and scroll to find the ticket.
The headline attraction of the ‘A Colossal Discovery’ pass was the release of Sinnoh legendary Regigigas through a special research quest. This quest was similar to those for Mew, Celebi and Jirachi, aside from the fact that only those who purchase a pass could receive it.
Regigigas (#486) is a Normal-type Pokémon. Therefore its sole type-weakness are Fighting-type Pokémon. It is resistant to Ghost-type attacks.
As with all story quests you players accumulated items, XP, stardust and Pokémon encounters at each stage of the quest. See our ‘A Colossal Discovery’ Walkthrough’ section for more details.
‘A Colossal Discovery’ participants could receive up to 10 free Raid Passes when spinning Gym photo-discs for a limited period (normal rules apply in that you can only carry one at a time, but the daily limit of one free pass per spin was relaxed).
