
# Peter Crouch provides unique response to Roberto Firmino's 'armpit' VAR call

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:00:10+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/peter-crouch-provides-unique-response-20802106)

Former Liverpool forward Peter Crouch has given his unique take on Roberto Firmino's controversial disallowed goal at Aston Villa.
Reds forward Firmino saw what would have been an equalising goal ruled out on Saturday when the assistant referee deemed him to be offside.
However, a VAR review showed that the Brazilian was as good as level with Villa defender Tyrone Mings, before ultimately deciding that he should be given offside.
The Premier League put out a tweet clarifying why the decision was made at half-time of the game, which Liverpool went on to win 2-1 to preserve their six-point lead at the top of the table.
 
It read: "Liverpool's Roberto Firmino was flagged offside before putting the ball in the net against Aston Villa and the decision was confirmed by VAR.
"The red line signifies Firmino and was aligned to his armpit, which was marginally ahead of the last Villa defender."
Pundits including Sky Sports' Chris Kamara and beIN Sports' Andy Gray have found fault with the decision-making process though, citing that prior to the offside decision being made two other lines were drawn that showed Firmino behind Mings and therefore onside.
 
Many fans also found the fact that Firmino's armpit was mentioned in the decision to be somewhat laughable.
Crouch, who also played for Villa during a long career in the top-flight which ended this summer, seems to agree, and says that he'd have faced issues with VAR had it have been in action when he played.
Tweeting to his 732,000 followers, the 6ft 7ins former forward wrote: "If I’d have been playing in the VAR era my long arms would have been offside for about 50 goals."
Luckily for him it wasn't though, with Crouch managing 108 Premier League strikes in his career, including six for Aston Villa and 22 for Liverpool.
