
# 'I am repulsed and baffled by trophy hunters', says Environment Minister Zac Goldsmith

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mirror.co.uk**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/i-am-repulsed-baffled-trophy-20790962)


        
          Ministers on Saturday will throw open a public consultation on banning trophy hunting imports.
        
      

        
          Writing for the Mirror, Zac Goldsmith MP reveals what the government could do and how you can make your voice heard.
        
      

        
          The consultation is open for 12 weeks and you can make your submission here.
        
      
Like most British people, when I see photographs of tourists gurning having gunned down a defenceless and majestic wild animal, I am both repulsed and baffled. 
Is this really the best we can do for endangered species like lions, leopards, elephants, and rhinos – for wealthy Westerners to shoot them like fish in a bowl, and bring their dismembered parts home to hang on their walls? 
What we do about this matters – because it speaks volumes about how much we treasure the natural world. 
These iconic animals can act as champions for whole ecosystems and communities – if only we place a greater value on them alive than dead.
I recognise that some people argue that trophy hunting can be a conservation tool.
But at a time when the natural world is in a sorry state and species are in decline, the onus should be on the provision of conclusive proof that trophy hunting has genuine and clear conservation benefits. 
That’s why I am so pleased that Defra is launching a call for evidence and a consultation on the import and exports of the spoils of so-called trophy hunting – including a potential ban.
Because when it comes to animals we need to use our heads as well as our hearts. 
There may well be examples of best practice – but are they rare exceptions? 
What is the evidence to support assertions that trophy hunting creates revenues for local communities, to be ploughed back into conservation? 
Is trophy hunting causing unnecessary suffering to animals? 
What impact will action have?
This is not about dictating policy to African countries – far from it. 
This is about focusing on our domestic responsibility – and the UK is proud to work in partnership with communities all over the continent for the protection of animals. 
So I hope that you – this nation of animal lovers – will make their voices heard. 
