
# England cricket match umpire was porn star who 'starred in Sex Around the World'

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:00:24+00:00**

Author: **Liam Prenderville, http://www.facebook.com/mirrorfootball**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/cricket/england-cricket-match-umpire-porn-20830689)

The umpire who was on duty for England's match with New Zealand is a former porn star.
Garth Stirrat, 51, was the fourth official for England's T20 loss in the Nelson Region earlier this week.
He has taken charge of domestic matches in New Zealand as main umpire and also women's international matches.
Stirrat is alleged to have featured in magazine porn shoots for NZX and Brass under the name Steve Parnell, when he was a his post with the New Zealand Professional Golfers Association, reports the Sun.
Steve Parnell is listed as appearing in the adult film Sex Around The World: New Zealand in 2003.
Garth Stirrat told Mirror Sport: "I have no comment to make on an issue from my very distant past and which I have no intention of relitigating."
Speaking in 2010 , New Zealand Hotel Council chairwoman Jenny Langley said: "I've spoken to Garth and he told me that he was involved in some filming over six years ago, while he was single, living in Auckland.
"I have also spoken to NZHC Board members who were previously unaware of the situation and they have accepted his resignation."
Stirrat, from Wellington, expressed his delight at being named as fourth official for England's defeat to New Zealand.
"Was proud as punch to be involved in the T20i in Nelson as 4th umpire. Wasn't a bad way to spend the birthday too," he wrote.
"Thanks for putting on weather and a sell-out crowd."
Stirrat previously played cricket in his homeland before later venturing into umpiring.
Stirrat had previously been chief executive of the New Zealand Professional Golfers’ Association but resigned in 2008.
He also held a post as head of the New Zealand Hotel Council but quit as news of his X-rated antics came to light.
On his profile on the New Zealand Professional Cricket Umpires' Association (NZPCUA) page, he explains his decision to go into umpiring.
"I’ve always said it’s the best seat in the house – if you like watching cricket and have a passion for it, you can’t get any closer to the action," he said.
Mirror Sport has also contacted NZPCUA for comment.
