
# Stuck on painkillers, but we’re not addicts

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:12:15+00:00**

Author: **Letters**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/society/2019/nov/03/stuck-on-painkillers-but-were-not-addicts)


        With no other treatments available, many patients with chronic conditions are forced to rely on painkillers for years, writes Jill Wallis
      
Your article (Lack of support for painkiller addicts ‘hiding epidemic’, 2 November) says half a million people in England have been taking opiate medication for more than three years. There seems to be an assumption that most people are prescribed painkillers for short-lived conditions but cannot stop taking them. I suggest another reason.
After years of chronic back pain I finally managed to get an x-ray, which showed spinal deterioration. I expected to discuss treatment. “Not necessary,” I was told. No doubt the pain was considered inevitable at my age. There are a range of conditions with similar issues of poor diagnoses and limited treatment. Many of us take painkillers for years because we are still in pain. We are not addicts. We are treating a debilitating condition when no other option is offered. Jill WallisAston Clinton, Buckinghamshire

        
          • Join the debate – email 
        
        
          
            guardian.letters@theguardian.com
          
        
      

        
          • Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit 
        
        
          
            gu.com/letters
          
        
      

        
          • Do you have a photo you’d like to share with Guardian readers? 
        
        
          
            Click here
          
        
        
           to upload it and we’ll publish the best submissions in the letters spread of our print edition
        
      
