
# Man arrested after major house fire in Plymouth

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:28:35+00:00**

Author: **Rom Preston-Ellis**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/man-arrested-after-major-house-3498693)

A man has been arrested on suspicion of arson after a major house in Plymouth this morning.
Emergency services were called to Ladysmith Road just before 8.10am after the blaze broke out in the front room of the property.
Police have launched an investigation and a man aged in his 40s has now been arrested on suspicion of arson with intent to endanger life.
Ladysmith Road was close but reopened at around 9.25am.
A Devon and Cornwall Police spokesperson said: “Police are investigating following a suspected suspicious fire at a property in Ladysmith Road, Plymouth, today.
“Emergency services were called around 8.10am after the fire began in the front room of the address.
“No-one was found inside the property.
“Fire investigators and scene of crime officers are on scene to establish the cause of the fire.
“It is currently being treated as suspicious.
“A man in his 40s from Plymouth has been arrested on suspicion of arson with intent to endanger life.
“Neighbouring properties were not affected or evacuated. The road was closed but re-opened around 9.25am.”
A Devon and Somerset Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson said: "We were called just before 8.10am to reports of a fire in a terraced house on Ladysmith Road.
"The ground floor was damaged by fire and upstairs damaged by smoke.
"Everyone is accounted for.
"It is suspected that the fire was started deliberately."
