
# What Happened To Kamala Harris?

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bill Whalen**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/billwhalen/2019/11/03/what-happened-to-kamala-harris/)

To the saying “denial is a river in Egypt,” which Los Angeles resident is less aware of their walls closing in: actress Lori Loughlin, who almost pled guilty in the celebrity college admissions scandal but didn’t; or California Sen. Kamala Harris, whose presidential campaign seems close to death’s doorstep?Over the weekend, Harris closed her New Hampshire field offices and canned her Granite State organizers. And she announced that she’s now all-in, in Iowa. “I'm practically living in Iowa,” the senator boasted in an interview, “to do the work that is necessary to make sure that I earn the support and have the folks in the caucuses who are standing in Kamala's corner."
Only, it’s a pretty small corner.
On Sunday, Harris became the fifth Democrat to qualify for December’s candidates’ debate. But she did so by attaining the bare minimum in an NBC News/Wall Street Journal national poll released earlier that day.
In that poll, Harris was the choice of only 4% of respondents. Back in mid-July, she was at 13% — and the front of the pack with the likes of former Vice President Joe Biden, Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders.
This November sampling has Harris in the back of the pack and in the same company as Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar, New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker and Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard – all fighting for scraps.
Granted, Harris could stage a comeback. She has two more debates this year in which to shine. And, as Donald Trump proved in 2016, never say never in presidential politics. 
But at this moment, that doesn’t seem likely. Harris appears to be the latest case of a presidential candidate who peaked too early.
If so, then what caused her to crash and burn?
America’s Wasn’t Ready For Her. Let’s dispense with the silliest spin should the Harris campaign ultimately go belly up before or after the Feb. 3 vote in Iowa.
That spin: America wasn’t ready to elect a woman of color (the senator’s parents are Jamaican and Asian-Indian).
How then to account for Harris’ meteoric rise (at this point in the race, just four months ago, she had surged to second place in both national and Iowa polls)? Did likely Democratic voters become misogynist racists over the summer and fall?
A more likely culprit than America not being ready for a President Kamala Harris: Sen. Kamala Harris not being ready for the presidential spotlight. Harris failed to clarify if she was for or against private health insurance. The long-awaited healthcare plan she eventually rolled out – kinda, sorta, Medicare-For-All, left her fellow Democrats perplexed.
Whatever momentum Harris had coming out of the initial June debate was soon squandered by her own ineptitude. And that has nothing to do race and/or gender.
The Crowded Field. Harris has been running in a field that, at one time, included two dozen Democratic hopefuls. Though the field’s no longer that large (bye-bye, Beto), it’s not as if Harris finds herself as one of two “either/or” choices.
In the first Democratic debate, where she used the issue of federal busing so effectively against Biden, Harris came across as a more sympathetic alternative to the more established ex-veep.  
But that was then, this is now – the current Democratic “either/or” at the moment being Biden vs. Warren or Sanders (small wonder that Harris’ most notable in the last debate was when she pestered Warren to join her in calling for a Trump Twitter ban).
Campaigns are about contrasts – a party’s primaries even more so. That Harris failed to establish herself as a clear-cut alternative to Biden, due in part to squishy policy and a less forceful style than Warren and Sanders, may prove to be her undoing.
That, and one other factor.
California. Being the junior senator from America’s most populous state supposedly gave Harris two advantages the other candidates lacked – access to troves of donors; assuming she won the South Carolina primary, the turbo-boost of a victory in California on March 3 (2020’s “Super Tuesday”).
As for money, Harris raised $11.7 million in the third quarter of 2019 – just fourth-best among Democrats and far behind Sanders, Warren and South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg. Meanwhile, she spent about $14.6 million from July through September.
In this case, fiscal consistency is Harris’ hobgoblin – she raised $12 million in the first quarter of 2019 and $11.8 million in the second quarter. With the “burn rate” increasing as the voting nears, she either has to raise more money (in a hurry) in order to spend more in Iowa or beyond – or start thinking about bringing the campaign to a halt lest she have to worry about paying off debt for years beyond.
As for Harris’ “California love,” that too is misleading. Consider this Quinnipiac University poll from back in February: 55% of California voters gave her a thumbs-up on job approval; only 40% said Harris would make a good president.
That fall-off might speak to a stature issue – a problem for any candidate on a crowded stage (you might remember Mitt Romney being very selective in his debate appearances at the beginning of the 2012 selection process).
But it might also point to another Harris shortcoming: having been on the minority side of the Senate for her entire time in Washington – and not quite midway through her six-year term – Harris is nowhere near a “signature-issue” politician. Unlike Sanders (healthcare) Warren (corporations) or even Andrew Yang (universal basic income), one doesn’t associate her with a policy.
How then to characterize Harris? It’s back to race and gender. And Democrats went down those paths in 2008 and 2016. So much for novelty.
And, perhaps, so much for Kamala Harris in 2020.
I invite you to follow me on Twitter: @hooverwhalen  
