
# Opinion: Here's evidence corporate tax cuts really do work

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:53:08+00:00**

Author: **Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/columnists/opinion-heres-proof-corporate-tax-cuts-really-do-work)

While most of the commentary on the Oct. 24 provincial budget has focused on the expenditure restraints required to return the province to a balanced budget in 2022, a central piece of the government’s economic program is the reduction in Alberta’s corporate tax rate by one percentage point per year from 12 per cent to eight per cent in 2022.
That policy has been subject to ill-informed criticisms, such as Gil McGowan’s assertion that a corporate tax cut “has never worked anywhere, ever.” (“Will a corporate tax cut trickle down in Alberta?” Calgary Herald Oct. 25.) Such assertions are inconsistent with recent high-reputable economic studies, which indicate that corporate income tax cuts have a major impact on growth, employment and workers’ well-being.
While many of the most relevant studies for Alberta are based on the U.S. states’ experiences with tax cuts, Ergete Ferede and I have also found in our studies that higher corporate taxes reduce the growth rates of the Canadian provinces. In our recently published School of Public Policy paper, we developed an econometric model of the factors that affect the Canadian provinces’ growth rates, based on data from 1981 to 2016. We found that four years after a one-percentage point reduction in a provincial corporate income tax rate, the economic growth rate increases by 0.12 percentage points and real per capita GDP increases by 1.2 per cent in the long run.
Applied to the Alberta tax cut, our econometric model indicates that the growth rate of real per capita GDP in Alberta would increase by 0.92 percentage points in 2022 and by 0.28 percentage points in 2029. This would translate into a 2.5 per cent increase in real per capita GDP in 2022 and 6.5 per cent in 2029, with employment increases of approximately 58,000 in 2022 and 172,000 by 2029. These results are very similar to what we found using an econometric model of provincial economic growth that we published in 2012 in the National Tax Journal, the leading U.S. academic journal on tax policy. This means that our current simulation results are robust because the 2012 study was based on a data set from an earlier time period and used a different econometric model.
Concerns have been expressed about the wisdom of cutting the corporate income tax rate in light of Alberta’s large fiscal deficits. However, critics of the tax cut have exaggerated the reduction in revenues because they don’t acknowledge that the tax cut will increase economic activity in the province, thereby generating additional revenues that will substantially offset the revenue loss from the initial tax rate cuts.
Based on our previous published study of the tax sensitivity of provincial bases, we estimate that the four-percentage point reduction will reduce total tax revenues by about $350 million per year in the long-run. While a $350-million reduction in revenues is significant, it is small in the context of Alberta’s current and projected deficits.
Any discussion of the role of the corporate income tax needs to acknowledge that it is a “high cost” source of revenue because high corporate tax rates diminish the income-generating opportunities for Albertans. Cutting the corporate income tax will increase investment in machinery and equipment and other forms of capital, raising workers’ productivity and ultimately their wage rates.
My colleagues, Ken McKenzie and Ergete Ferede, have found that for every $1 reduction in corporate income tax revenues, aggregate wages in Alberta will increase by 95 cents in the long run. Therefore, cutting the corporate tax rate, even though there is an urgent need to reduce the provincial fiscal deficit, is justified because of its positive impact on economic growth and employment opportunities for Albertans.
Bev Dahlby is research director and distinguished fellow, tax and economic growth, at the School of Public Policy, University of Calgary. He was a member of the Blue Ribbon Panel, which published its report on the province’s fiscal situation on Sept. 3, 2019.
