
# Frank Lampard hails Chelsea's spirit after dramatic Ajax comeback

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:46:53+00:00**

Author: **Darren Lewis, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-lewis/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/frank-lampard-hails-chelseas-spirit-20821016)

Frank Lampard praised the spirit of his Chelsea heroes after their epic comeback to deny nine-man Ajax.
The Blues boss, whose team fought back from 4-1 down, said: “Our spirit and character was something that the fans loved. We need to tighten up for sure but with that spirit we can go places.”
Lampard’s team looked dead and buried against last season’s semi-finalists with just over half an hour remaining.
But they somehow escaped with a point after a crazy contest which also saw both Ajax centre-backs sent off and two goals disallowed.
Lampard added: “I don’t think I’ve been involved in a game like that. The two own goals from us were the story of the first half.
“We were in it at half time. I said to the players we will draw this game at least 3-3 or even 4-4, it could even be 4-3 to us, we could win it.
“If we get rid of those moments that gave them the crazy goals, some misfortune on our part, we could go places.”
Tammy Abraham had gifted the Dutch side a second-minute lead when he turned a Quincy Promes cross into his own net.
Promes then headed home in the 20th minute to put Ajax after Jorginho had equalised from the spot. Hakim Ziyech forced Blues keeper Kepa Arrizabalaga into an own goal from a corner and the Moroccan then teed up Donny van der Beek ten minutes after the break to make it 4-1.
Chelsea captain Cesar Azpilicueta, however, appeared offside as he made it 4-2 from close range in the 62nd minute.
Ajax then imploded with both their centre-backs sent off with just over 20 minutes left.
First former Manchester United star Daley Blind received a second yellow card for a foul on Abraham.
Then Joel Veltman saw red for handball. Jorginho pulled it back to 4-3 from the spot before substitute Reece James rammed the ball home through a crowded penalty box for a dramatic equalizer two minutes later.
Azpilicueta believed he had won the game for his side with an angled drive with just 12 minutes left. But VAR ruled his effort out for handball.
Lampard went on: "I know we had 4-4s with Liverpool and some crazy games, but the red cards and the VAR....I can't give you a dissection of those because I need to look back with a calm head and see them. When you are on the sidelines, it’s very difficult to grasp it straight away."
With nine men Ajax still attacked, with full-back Noussair Mazraoui forcing a fine save from Arrizabalaga. Substitutes Callum Hudson-Odoi and Michy Batshuayi also blew chances to grab a winner for the home side.
It leaves Chelsea second in Group H on seven points with Ajax top. Chelsea next travel to Valencia - 4-1 winners over Lille - on November 27.
