
# Fox host asks Tulsi Gabbard if Hillary Clinton had FBI-CIA 'cabal' target Trump in Russia probe

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:49:59+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Chaitin**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/fox-host-asks-tulsi-gabbard-if-hillary-clinton-had-fbi-cia-cabal-target-trump-in-russia-probe)

2020 Democratic presidential candidate Rep. Tulsi Gabbard declined to comment on whether she believes Hillary Clinton played a key role in the origins of the Russia investigation.
Fox Business anchor Maria Bartiromo asked the question Sunday, spinning off a feud in which Clinton said Gabbard is “a favorite of the Russians” and implied that the congresswoman is a "Russian asset" being groomed to spoil the 2020 election with a third-party run.
"Do you believe she had anything ... to do with the FBI and the CIA — that cabal of people — putting Donald Trump in the story of Russia meddling in the United States?" Bartiromo asked on her Fox News show Sunday Morning Futures.
"I can’t speak to any of that," the Hawaii Democrat said. The congresswoman did, however, slam Clinton for what she and "her proxies and minions have been putting out and trying to smear my character, reputation, and undermine my campaign."
Much of Bartiromo's Sunday program has been dedicated to following developments in the Justice Department investigations into the Russia probe. In speaking with Gabbard, she noted that there is "real speculation out there" that Clinton was "at the core" of the Russia investigation origins, because the 2016 presidential candidate made similar comments about Trump being in Russia's pocket and her campaign helped fund an unverified dossier compiled by British ex-spy Christopher Steele used by the FBI to obtain warrants to electronically surveil Carter Page, a onetime member of Trump's 2016 campaign.
Opining that "this is something bigger than just about me," Gabbard said her public quarrel with Clinton "is really about our freedom. Our freedom of speech and being able to make sure that we as the American people can stand up. We can be critical of our leaders. We can disagree, and the reason why we’re seeing this coming from Hillary Clinton and her proxies and kind of this foreign policy establishment that represents her legacy is they know they cannot control me. And that worries them very much."
