
# Jurgen Klopp begs authorities to focus on player welfare amid Liverpool's fixture pile-up

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **David Maddock, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-maddock/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopp-begs-authorities-focus-20791002)

Jurgen Klopp says the top managers across Europe ALL agree the time has come for football’s authorities to stop thinking about “their wallet”, and instead focus on player welfare.
The Liverpool boss passionately argues that the sport he loves has reached a tipping point - and he’s even produced a plan which he believes can address the current situation, which he reckons will destroy the game unless drastic action is taken.
The Reds have been left in a farcical situation where they are due to play in two different competitions on two different continents on the same night. And the German coach said enough is enough.
“The situation is clear: there was not one day where FIFA, UEFA, the Premier League, the Football League has to sit at a table and think about the players and not about their wallet,” he explained.
“Pretty much all managers, especially managers with a lot of international players, think the same. They get players back on a Wednesday or Thursday from Shanghai or Miami and on Saturday we have to play.
“The game has grown and I get that it’s a business, we are part of that and we get the benefit of the business 100%. But it grew so much because of the quality of the players.
“Our part of it is to help players fulfil their potential. That only really works with training but in modern football a manager has no time for training any more.”
Liverpool had to enter the season without some of their biggest stars like Sadio Mane because they spent all summer playing for their countries.
The Reds also have fixture clashes with the World Club championships, which will be expanded in 2021 to be played in the summer, and include Champions League winners of the previous four years…meaning yet more demands.
Klopp now wants a summit meeting between top managers and all the competing football authorities to thrash out a solution to a problem he says “everybody involved in the game would tell you that is too much”.
“There should be a meeting with five to ten top managers in the world, Fifa, Uefa, and the CEOs of the big leagues. They discuss it and everyone gets the same vote. No, managers get a double vote!” he said.
“The biggest benefit what this game could get is to give these really good coaches out there more time. This game could be improved unbelievably again to the next level if we had a period in the year when we could really train together.
“Yes, I love what I do, but we have come to a point where it gets too much. And it gets too much because nobody speaks to the people who have to do the actual work.”
