
# Gary Lineker drops four major hints Ian Wright is heading into I'm A Celebrity on Match of the Day

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:23:22+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/gary-lineker-drops-four-major-17192077)

Gary Lineker appears to have confirmed Ian Wright is heading into the I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! jungle.
The ITV1 reality show will return later this month as the series kicks off on Sunday, November 17.
I'm A Celeb fans are eagerly-anticipating the show's return, with Holly Willoughby set to be replaced as presenter.
Ant McPartlin is back, taking the reins from the This Morning presenter Holly, 38, with Declan Donnelly partnering him.
Ant and Dec have been reunited on the show after the former's problem-plagued 2018, which saw him banned from driving and take time off TV commitments to deal with addiction issues in rehab.
While the jungle line-up has yet to be announced, Gary Lineker appears to have dropped a major hint.
Host Gary mercilessly teased his co-star Ian with a series of jungle related puns on Match of the Day last night.
Gary asked the former Arsenal and Crystal Palace striker about 'passing all the trials'.
 
Former Everton, Leicester City and Tottenham Hotspur star Gary then said: "You all right Ian? I'm not bugging you?"
Gary then remarked that Norwich City had 'come out of the jungle that is the Championship'.
And it was this particular comment which led to Wrighty bursting into a fit of giggles.
 
Gary told viewers: "Wrighty's off to eat leaves."
One football fan laughed on social media over the hilarious exchange.
They wrote on Twitter: "Gary Lineker teasing Ian Wright by making low-key jungle references is absolutely hilarious. Wright almost burst out laughing at that last one."
