
# 'Perfect' - West Ham fans are loving January transfer hint involving West Brom

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:16:02+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/diangana-west-ham-recall-wba-17219852)

Manuel Pellegrini has hinted Grady Diangana will be staying at West Bromwich Albion beyond January – and West Ham United fans are loving it.
The 21-year-old has been a revelation for Albion since joining from Premier League West Ham on a season-long loan in August.
He’s scored four goals and set up another four to help push Slaven Bilic’s side to the top of the Championship.
That kind of form understandably hasn’t gone unnoticed and with West Ham having the option to recall Diangana when the window reopens, Manuel Pellegrini was asked about his plans for the winger.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
The Hammers boss indicated he’s happy to let Diangana continue his progess at The Hawthorns, saying: “I think that Grady is doing what we wanted for him, same as Josh Cullen. He’s a player without any doubt will be part of West Ham in the future.
“I trust a lot in Grady and I think it was better for him to go and play 40 games this season and be ready for next season, than to play here just some games. I think he must finish his season where he is.”
 
Despite their recent struggles in the top-flight, West Ham fans all seem to be in agreement that Diangana is best served by staying put. Here’s what they have been saying:
@Whufc98: Please don’t bloody recall him. It’s much better for him to have a full season there than come back and sit on the bench here.
@WhuEthan: He would hardly play and if we don’t recall him it’s better for his career.
@TheLawless: Good news.
@Atkins_Trevor: Good Grady is in form and playing it would be terrible to recall him for the bench of a losing team.
@GeorgeMoss77: Right decision.
@Nathaniel_John: Right call for me. We would call him back for him to bench behind Antonio and Anderson for the rest of the season. Let him play, he is tearing it up and a whole season with 35+ games will do wonders for his development ahead of a Premier League season with us in 2020/21.
@JackMaji: Think it would be unfair on him to take him out of somewhere he is flourishing. He would be better improving there before coming here next season and smashing it.
@SimonDickens1: Good. Wouldn't be fair to cut short this brilliant learning experience just to come sit on our bench, if he's lucky enough to be picked for the squad.
 
@Claretludo: Makes perfect sense - he will return a much better/stronger player.
@Mcardle_bob: Good. Get the players we have performing first.
@Danturnr: Why would you recall him when he is doing well and getting regular first team football? Absolutely the right call by Pellegrini.
