
# Man cleared of slashing girlfriend and stamping on her head during 'weird sex game'

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:09:49+00:00**

Author: **Lorraine King**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/man-cleared-slashing-girlfriend-stamping-20813532)

A boyfriend has been cleared of attacking his girlfriend after telling a jury that she was injured during "rough sex."
Kane Elliott, 26, was accused of assaulting his naked partner before stamping on her and slashing her back with knives.
But Elliott told a court it happened during "a really weird sex game" after the pair had been drinking heavily.
He denied wounding with intent to inflict grievous bodily harm, unlawful wounding and making a threat to kill and was found not guilty by a jury.
Cardiff Crown Court heard his partner wanted to "try something new" and asked him to "strangle her then slapped him across the face".
 
Giving evidence at the trial, he said: “We were drinking heavily then the sex games began. She was very much into very rough sex.
“She said she wanted to try some new sex stuff. It got really weird. I did not know what to think.”
“From there it just got violent. Her idea was to involve the violence with the sex. She insisted on strangulation. She just wanted more and more and more.
“She slapped me across the face. I was not expecting her to hit me. I realised I was not enjoying it. I pushed her off and told her to stop.”
The court heard Elliott stopped and pushed her away, causing her to "go mad and start smashing up the flat".
Elliott said his girlfriend destroyed a wooden table - and used a table leg to beat herself up before swinging it at him.
He added: "I was knocked unconscious and came round to see blood and her playing with a knife. The next thing I remember was the police arriving."
Prosecutor Meirion Davies, said: "When police arrived they found his partner naked and showing signs of heavy bleeding and injuries to her face which was swollen. She had two black eyes.
"There were a number of slash marks on her back. There was bruising on her legs and arms. This was a savage battering.
Mr Davies said that when police entered the flat Elliot became "very aggressive" and "began frothing at the mouth".
Mr Davies said: "He kept shouting "who is she, get her out of my flat" and "she's been in here beating herself up".
"He was arrested and during his police interview denied assaulting Miss Davies.
"He told them she had assaulted herself as part of having rough sex."
His partner told police Elliott asked her to cut herself with a knife but when she refused he cut her.
Mr Davies added: "She also references being slashed in the back. She described Elliott strangling her while she was on the floor.
"She was begging him to stop. She tried to escape but was dragged back.
"She tried to deceive him, telling him she was pregnant. But he punched her to the stomach anyway.
"At one point when she was being strangled she felt like her eyes would pop out." The court heard his partner eventually escaped and ran outside to call for help
Elliott, from Cwmbran, was found not guilty of all the charges against him after a week-long trial.
