
# Spider-Man: Into The Spider-Verse Is Teasing A Big Announcement

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:48:23+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483642/spider-man-into-the-spider-verse-is-teasing-a-big-announcement)

Written By
Spider-Man has been on movie screens almost continuously for the last two decades, but we'd never seen anything quite like Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse. The movie wowed critics and fans alike and it won an Academy Award for Best Animated Film. A lot of people probably went dressed as their favorite member of the Spider-Verse on Halloween.
However, something else happened on Halloween, as the Instagram page for Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse appears to have dropped a hint that something important was on the way. Everybody's spider-sense is tingling, and now, so is ours. Check out the post below.
The Instagram page has never been entirely dormant, despite the fact that the movie came out nearly a year ago. It regularly posts images but they're usually just bits of the movie reminding the fans how great the film was.
This one appears to be something more. It's not just showing off this image from the movie, it's using the image to make a point. Something's up. We just have no idea what that could be.
It seems like an announcement of something new related to Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse could be coming any day now. Considering how popular the movie was, this has a lot of people excited wondering what it could be.
The most obvious possibility is a new movie. Several sequels and spinoffs were rumored in the wake of Spider-Verse's success. we're pretty sure that they're coming, but that's about it. While it's unlikely that we're going to be seeing a trailer or anything sexy like that, it's just too soon, we could very well get a confirmed title and a release date for a Into the Spider-Verse 2 or the Spider-Gwen spinoff or whatever else could end up being the next thing out of the gate.
Slightly lower on the wish list, it could be something tangentially related to the Spider-Verse movie that isn't a movie itself. Plans for an animated series, maybe a tie-in video game. Something that gives fans access to more Spider-Verse, but in a different way.
Maybe the Spider-Verse is getting a brand new comic book tie in. Since that's where all these characters were born, it would make some sense to see the movie version get it's own direct continuation in comics, that's certainly happened before.
On the flip side, there's also the possibility that there isn't any announcement coming at all. Maybe this was just meant to get some user engagement on Instagram by asking people to actually leave comments. It wouldn't be the first time what seemed like a big tease turned out to be nothing at all.
Still, it really does feel like this could be something. The question is, how long will we have to wait to find out. Could we hear something today? Maybe next week? It's over a month before we get to the one year anniversary of Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse. If we're looking at a big date like that, it could be a while, but if we are waiting that long, we'll almost certainly get more hints of what is to come between now and then.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
