
# Microsoft unveils all-new Outlook for Mac, ribbon replaced with a simple toolbar

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:25:00+00:00**

Author: **Pradeep**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/microsoft-unveils-all-new-outlook-for-mac-ribbon-replaced-with-a-simple-toolbar/)

At Ignite 2019, Microsoft announced an all-new Outlook for Mac experience with redesigned UI, improved performance and several new features. This new Outlook for Mac uses Microsoft sync technology that already powers Outlook for iOS and Android and Windows Mail app. The Microsoft sync technology offers faster and more reliable syncing experience, improved search results, reduced email load times, and enables Outlook for Mac team to bring more Office 365 features easily.
The major change in this new Outlook for Mac experience is the new toolbar on top. Microsoft has replaced the ribbon with a new customizable toolbar. Microsoft feels that this new toolbar helps reduce your visual clutter and helps you focus on what’s most important.

        Other new features in the new Outlook for Mac:
      
It is important to note that this is a very early version of new Outlook experience and it misses several features that are available on existing Outlook for Mac. You can find the list of features that are missing below.
Join Office Insider Fast to try this new Outlook for Mac experience. And it works only with Office 365, Outlook.com, and Google accounts. If you are using an old Exchange based email account, you should continue using the existing Outlook experience.
Source: Microsoft
