
# Kaleem replaces Maqsood as captain for ACC Emerging Teams’ Asia Cup

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:28:00+00:00**

Author: **Shahzad Raza**

Original: [Times of Oman](https://timesofoman.com/article/2178111/Sports/Cricket/Kaleem-replaces-Maqsood-as-captain-for-ACC-Emerging-Teams-Asia-Cup)

MUSCAT: All-rounder Amir Kaleem will lead a new-look Oman to the ACC Emerging Teams’ Asia Cup being held in Bangladesh from November 14 to 23. Kaleem replaces Zeeshan Maqsood as captain though dashing batsman Aqib Ilyas retains his position as the team’s vice-captain.Apart from Maqsood, Oman Cricket has also rested senior players Khawar Ali and Bilal Khan for the 50-over tournament. Al Turki speedster Gopendra Bohra comes in as Khan’s replacement after a series of impressive performances in the country’s top league. Khan ended up as the highest wicket-taker in the recently concluded ICC T20 World Cup Qualifier in UAE.All-rounder Sanuth Ebrahim and slow left-arm Badal Singh join Jay Odedra in the team to complete a trio of spin bowlers apart from Kaleem, who is a left-arm spinner.Oman has been placed in Group A along with Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Group B comprises India, Bangladesh, Hong Kong and Nepal. Oman will take on Sri Lanka in the tournament opener on November 14 at Cox’s Bazar Academy ground in Dhaka. It will face Afghanistan on November 16 and Pakistan on 18.
Two teams from each group will reach the semifinals, scheduled to be held on November 20 and 21 while the final will be played on 23 rd.Oman squad: Amir Kaleem (captain), Aqib Ilyas (vice-captain), Jatinder Singh, Suraj Kumar, Sandeep Goud, Muhammed Naseem, Khurram Nawaz Khan, Mehran Khan, Sanuth Ebrahim, Jay Odedra, Badal Singh, Muhammed Nadeem, Ahmed Fayyaz Butt, Kaleemullah and Gopendra Bohra.Reserves: Sufyan Mahmood, Wasim Ali, Nester Dhamba and Sindo Michael.Officials: Chef de Mission: Pankaj Khimji. Manager: Madhu Jesrani. Head Coach: Dulip Mendis. Assistant Coach: Mazhar Saleem Khan. Team Trainer: Evert. VideoAnalyst: Zeeshan Siddiqui.
