
# DoH holds mental health training

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:00:39+00:00**

Author: **Lee Ann Ducusin**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/doh-holds-mental-health-training)

Dr. Eduardo C. Janairo, DoH regional director, said the second batch of “Training on Mental Health & Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) for guidance counsellor, nurses of the Department of Education personnel, and Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP) personnel was held last week
“MHPSS is a significant tool used in situation of violence, crisis, emergency and during armed conflicts to prevent psychological distress. “Yung incidence ng psychological problems ay lumalaki sa mga sitwasyong nagkakaroon ng calamity, gaya ng lindol at bagyo at  pangyayaring may kinalaman sa violence hindi lang sa mga lansangan kundi pati na rin sa mga paaraalan,” Janairo said.
“Yung incidence ng “bullying” sa mga schools, napakalaking epekto sa ating mga estudyante na biktima nito dahil sa araw-araw silang exposed sa ganitong violence ay nagkakaroon na sila ng takot at nawawalan ng ganang mag-aral at pumasok na kung minsan ay nauuwi sa kanilang pagpapakamatay,” he added.
Janairo emphasized that exposure to violence, loss of or separation from a loved one, friend or relative, and poverty can affect the well-being of a person, his/her family and the community which he/she resides.
The MHPSS training aims to provide mental health interventions to improve psychosocial well-being of a person by reducing the levels of psychological stress, improving daily functions, and ensure effective coping strategies.
The DoH-Calabarzon Training on MPHSS was held at the Ciudad Christhia Resort in San Mateo, Rizal from October 27-31, 2019. A total of 72 participants from various provinces of the region attended.
