
# Lewis Hamilton admits he is battling demons after latest F1 world title success

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:27:15+00:00**

Author: **Liam Prenderville, http://www.facebook.com/mirrorfootball**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/formula-1/lewis-hamilton-admits-battling-demons-20811922)

Lewis Hamilton admits he is 'battling demons' away from the world of F1.
Hamilton, 34, clinched his sixth world title on Sunday following his second-placed finish in the US Grand Prix.
The Brit is now within striking range of Michael Schumacher's all-time record and was joined by his team as he celebrated in New York.
But Hamilton admits his latest success has come at a cost as he continues to struggle away from the track.
"Every year you go through a different rollercoaster ride of emotions," he said.
"Each and every single one of us is struggling with something in life.
"I try to show people that, from the outside, things always look great but it's not always the case.
"I am struggling with lots of different things and battling certain demons.
"When you look in the mirror each day, whether you feel good or you feel bad, there is always the darker side that's trying to pull you down, and you're constantly having to wake up.
"I look in the mirror each morning and I'm trying to lift myself up and say, 'Yes, you can do it. Yes, you are great.
"Yes you can be fit if you go and put that time in. Yes, you can win this race if you do the right steps, and you continue to believe in yourself, and no one else is going to do it for you."'
Hamilton admitted he was hit hard by the deaths of Niki Lauda and F2driver Anthoine Hubert this year.
"I would say that I didn't think losing Niki was going to hit me as hard as it did," Hamilton continued. "It was really upsetting and I miss him dearly. I didn't realise how much I loved the guy.
"We also lost a young kid in Spa. When something like that happens, it can put a lot of doubt in your mind and you have to bat that off. You think, 'Jeez, is it time to stop or shall I keep going?'
"There's lots of life after F1 and I want to spend time with my family. I still want to have a family one day. But I love doing what I do so much that I don't think there's a lot that can particularly stop me."
