
# BSVI Hero Splendor iSmart launched in India for Rs 64,900

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:46:16+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/bsvi-hero-splendor-ismart-launched-in-india-for-rs-64900/)

The BSVI Hero Splendor iSmart has been launched in India for the price of Rs 64,900 ex-showroom. The price for the new BSVI model is dearer by Rs 7,500. Hero Motocorp has taken the opportunity to not only introduce a BSVI compliant mass market commuter but to launch an all-new Splendor iSmart. The new Splendor gets a new diamond frame that houses the new BSVI compliant 110cc engine. The new frame offers an increased ground clearance of 180mm and an increased wheelbase of 1,270mm. The suspension geometry has been retuned and offers an additional 15mm longer travel over the older model. The motorcycle is now offered with a 240mm disc brake up front.
The new Splendor iSmart sources power from a newly developed 110cc BSVI compliant engine that uses electronic fuel injection for carburetion. The new Splendor iSmart produces 9.1PS at 7,500rpm and 9.89Nm at 5,500rpm. The new engine offers 10 per cent more torque through the rev range. The engine is mated to a 4-speed gearbox. The styling largely remains the same but the motorcycle gets new colour schemes. The new colour schemes are blue and black, red and black and silver and grey.
At the launch of the BSVI Hero Splendor, Malo Le Masson, Head - Global Product Planning, Hero MotoCorp, said, "The Splendor iSmart is a clear testimony to the immense progress we have made in scaling up our in-house R&D capabilities in a short span of time. This is the first BSVI compliant motorcycle homologated in the country with a new engine family, and a new chassis design, completely designed and developed at our Centre of Innovation and Technology (CIT) in Jaipur. Conforming to stringent BSVI emission norms, while improving the performance capabilities, style quotient and riding experience of the motorcycle is a remarkable feat. All these, under the successful Splendor franchise provide a highly appealing proposition for the customers. This marks the commencement of the transition of our product range to BSVI norms."
The BSVI Splendor I-smart rivals the Honda Dream Yuga, TVS Radeon and the Bajaj Platina H-Gear.

        EICMA 2019: Hero Xtreme 1.R Concept motorcycle showcased
      

        EICMA 2019: Hero Xpulse 200 with Rally kit unveiled
      
