
# Armeena Khan, OKB, Meesha Shafi react to Khalilur Rehman's remarks

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:29:09+00:00**

Author: **Entertainment Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2091354/4-armeena-khan-okb-meesha-shafi-react-khalilur-rehmans-remarks/)

Khalilur Rehman Qamar’s recent comments regarding women and infidelity have caused quite a stir in the showbiz industry and the audience.
In a recent interview, the writer went on to defend his ideas and ‘Philosophy’ around how he sees society.
“Get someone to try me under #MeToo, I won’t care about that either. But I won’t be able to call every woman a woman. That simply isn’t true for me.”
Qamar continued that when he saw the infidelity within women and the state of men, he went on, “A man leaves all his honour, his self-esteem with his wife when he goes out to earn a living. And I curse those women who violate that trust. That was the concept behind Mere Pass Tum Ho and so I’m fighting for the ‘good women’. It would be unfair to these [good] women to be classified along with those who aren’t loyal.”
The Kaaf Kangana director further elaborated that he is a feminist to the core, but he is slightly selective about his politics.
“Trust me, you’ll not find a bigger feminist in Pakistan, but I fight for good women only. Loyalty is a woman’s virtue; don’t challenge it.”
Many came forward, baffled at the writer’s stance. Osman Khalid Butt, Ali Gul Pir, Armeena Khan, Meesha Shafi, Jami were few celebrities who commented on Qamar’s remarks.
“And this guy is the most sought-after writer in our TV industry. If he is the one writing the dramas then you can expect the kind of s**t you see on TV,” Pir wrote.
