
# Dwarf dumped by adoptive parents denies being 'adult sociopath who posed as kid'

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:37:30+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/dwarf-dumped-adoptive-parents-denies-20813272)

A dwarf allegedly abandoned by her adoptive parents has denied their claims she was an 'adult sociopath posing as a child'.
Natalia Grace Barnett defended herself in a dramatic interview with Dr Phil, insisting she was a child when she lived in the American couple's home.
Kristine and Michael Barnett were arrested for child abuse in September for allegedly leaving Natalia in an apartment and moving to Canada with their other children.
The alleged victim claims she was nine at the time, although the Barnetts say she was 22-years-old.
They also accused her of trying to kill members of the family and smearing blood over mirrors.
 
The couple adopted Natalia in 2010, when they thought she was six-years-old, before allegedly abandoning her in 2013.
The Ukrainian, who is now living with a Christian American family, claimed to be 16-years-old in a new interview with American TV star Dr Phil.
Responding to the Barnetts allegations that she was an adult, Natalia said: "It's not true.
 
"It's not true at all. I just want people to hear my side."
Her new adoptive mum Cynthia Mans, who sat alongside her for the interview, said her daughter had bone scans which prove her real age.
The Barnetts previously claimed a bone scan they paid for indicated she was born in 1989, Mail Online reports.
 
They even alleged that their adopted daughter attempted to kill them and their sons.
The Barnetts had Natalia's age changed to 22 and later rented an apartment in Lafayette, Indiana, in 2013 and left her there alone, according to police.
Mrs Mans said she was not concerned about taking in Natalia and allowing her to mingle with her other children, despite the terrifying accusations levelled against her.
She added: "We're supposed to help. Me and my husband adopted these kids.
"It's like, who would do it if you don't?"
Ms Barnett claimed Natalia had already started her period and was trying to cover it up when she was adopted.
She added that the Ukrainian had adult teeth and full pubic hair.
The mother also said doctors examined Natalia and concluded she was suffering a severe psychological illness only diagnosed in adults.
This illness supposedly led to her jumping from moving cars and smearing blood over mirrors.
