
# India women hold Vietnam to 1-1 draw in second International friendly

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:21:15+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/india-women-hold-vietnam-to-1-1-draw-in-second-international-friendly?utm_medium=rss)


        The Indian women’s football team manage to play out a 1-1 draw against hosts Vietnam in the second of the two FIFA international friendly at the National Training Centre ground in Hanoi on Wednesday. After conceding in the first half, India scored in the second half to salvage a draw.
      
The Indian women’s football team managed to play out a 1-1 draw against hosts Vietnam in the second of the two FIFA international friendly at the National Training Centre ground in Hanoi on Wednesday. Thai Thi Thao put the hosts in the lead in the 39th minute before India came back strongly in the second half to equalise through Ranjana Chanu in the 57th minute. India had lost the first friendly 0-3.
India got their first real chance of the game around the 30-minute mark when Dangmei Grace broke clear of the Vietnamese defence, but her effort went wide of the goal. Soon after, India goalkeeper Aditi Chauhan, who made crucial saves in the first game, made a great save to deny the hosts from a counter-attack. The visitors then won a free-kick from in a dangerous position, but striker Bala Devi’s effort also went wide of the target. India paid for their missed chances as Thai Thi Thao soon put Vietnam ahead six minutes before half-time.
In the second half, Vietnam goalkeeper Tran Thi Kim Thanh was being put to test by the Indian strikers. The Vietnamese goalkeeper pulled off two crucial saves – the first one was a close-range free-kick by Sanju, while the second chance was from a long-distance shot by centre back Sweety Devi – to keep her side in the lead.
India eventually drew parity when Ranjana was played through by captain Ashalata Devi and the former made no mistake to slot the ball past the in-form keeper. India head coach Maymol Rocky brought in Anju Tamang in place of Daya Devi at the hour mark. Sanju had a chance late in the match from a close-range free-kick, but the ball flew wide of goal.
