
# 2020 Nissan Patrol pricing and specs: AEB now standard, no CarPlay/Android for Australia

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:38:51+00:00**

Author: **Scott Collie**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/806188/2020-nissan-patrol-pricing/)

- shares
Nissan Australia has updated its Patrol off-roader range with a new suite of potentially life-saving semi-autonomous safety assists, but Australia will miss out on the dual-screen infotainment system and smartphone mirroring offered abroad.
Autonomous emergency braking (AEB) – which automatically slams on the brakes if it detects an impending accident with other cars or pedestrians – is standard across the updated Patrol range, which starts with the Ti priced from $75,990 before on-road costs (+$3110).
Previously the tech was reserved for the top-spec Ti-L, and didn't offer pedestrian detection.
Along with AEB, the updated Patrol will also get rear-cross traffic alert, adaptive cruise control, lane-departure warning, and blind spot monitoring as standard across the range.
Standard equipment also includes satellite navigation, electric front seats, a surround view monitor, and leather trim for the seats and steering wheel in the Ti.
Meanwhile, the range-topping Ti-L now costs $91,990 before on-road costs (+$2110).
Compared to the base model, the Ti-L gains entertainment screens for the second row, memory for the driver's seat and mirrors, a Bose sound system, a sunroof, roof rails, and heated/cooled front seats.
Safety updates aside, you'll be able to tell the updated Patrol from the outgoing model by its bolder new headlights and grille, updated taillights, and new alloy wheels.
Inside, the new Patrol looks roundly similar to the model it replaces. Australia won't be offered the dual-screen infotainment system shown in the launch images, nor will it get an updated infotainment system with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto.
Nissan says the car's air-conditioning system has been upgraded to deliver improved airflow, especially in the rear, while the seat heaters now cover more area for faster, more consistent bun warming.
Power still comes from a naturally-aspirated 5.6-litre V8 making 298kW and 560Nm, put to all four wheels through a seven-speed automatic transmission.
Nissan has, however, retuned the car's dampers to offer better on-road ride comfort. Braked towing capacity remains rated at 3500kg.
A rough-and-ready Patrol Warrior is also on the cards.

        All prices exclude on-road costs.
      
174
nextprevious2020 Nissan Patrol pricing and specs: AEB now standard, no CarPlay/Android for Australia
