
# 21 Gifts Under $5 That Actually Look Wayyy Expensive

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:13:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/style-beauty/beauty/g2401/gifts-under-5/)

In a world where even lattes cost more than $5, finding gifts for less than that amount sounds, well, pretty much impossible. I mean, let’s be real here—even the card you put with the gift is at least five bucks these days. But I assure you, finding inexpensive gifts can be done. Not only are they out there, but you’ll also be surprised at just how many good ones you can snag for so dang cheap. To prove my point, I rounded up 21 of the best gifts under $5, so keep on scrolling to shop these hidden gems before someone else does.
Mlife amazon.com $4.99 SHOP NOW
Reusable straws are more expensive than the plastic disposable ones, yes, but this one is still only five bucks and it protects the lives of turtles. TBH, you should give one of these to everyone on your list.
Roblue amazon.com $2.00 SHOP NOW
With this set, you get not one, not two, but six super-cute resin hair clips all for the price of one.
RingBuu amazon.com $1.59 SHOP NOW
Why drop a lot of cash on hair ties when they’re just going to get lost anyway? Restock your friend’s stash with this set of neutral-toned spiral hair ties.
NYX PROFESSIONAL MAKEUP amazon.com $5.00 $3.33 (33% off) SHOP NOW
NYX is known for having good quality makeup at shockingly reasonable prices. This lipgloss might only be a few bucks, but it’ll stack up against even the designer brands, which is what makes this such a good gift.
Cren amazon.com $4.64 SHOP NOW
At just four bucks, this bracelet makes it easy for your friend to get in on the shell accessory trend.
Forever21 forever21.com $3.99 SHOP NOW
Nope, these hoop earrings aren’t real gold, but no one (except for your wallet) will know the difference.
Forever21 forever21.com $3.90 SHOP NOW
Can someone have too many neutral beanies? When they’re this cute and this affordable, the answer is no.
Masque BAR amazon.com $4.95 SHOP NOW
Sheet masks are great—aside from the fact that you can only use them once before they go in the trash. With this inexpensive 24k gold mask, the person you’re gifting it to won’t feel so bad tossing it afterward.
H&M hm.com $2.99 SHOP NOW
A cute top is always a good gift idea for your BFF, and this black cami won’t leave you broke after buying it for them.
Forever21 forever21.com $3.99 SHOP NOW
Everyone could use the gift of more bobby pins. These gold and pearl-embellished barrettes are the perfect balance of something your friend would want and need.
Goldweather amazon.com $2.59 SHOP NOW
Not over statement headbands yet? Same. And I bet your friend isn’t either, so get her this cute cross-knot headband you know she’ll love.
Diamond Cosmetics ulta.com $5.00 SHOP NOW
If giving the gift of a mani and pedi isn’t in the budget rn, this super chic nail set, complete with a buffer, file, and gold nail clippers, is the next best thing.
Urban Outfitters urbanoutfitters.com $2.99 SHOP NOW
For your stylish friend who doesn’t need glasses for seeing but does need them to complete their lewk, get them these gold rimless readers.
Urban Outfitters urbanoutfitters.com $4.00 SHOP NOW
You know what are surprisingly expensive? Decorative candles. But this set of candlesticks is only $4, so whoever you’re shopping for won’t feel bad about burning them—which is good because these color drip candles need to be lit for the full effect.
Urban Outfitters urbanoutfitters.com $4.99 SHOP NOW
Got a friend who loves RuPaul’s Drag Race? Make their day with this fun book of Mad Libs.
banlany amazon.com $2.87 SHOP NOW
Can’t afford to treat someone to nail art? No prob! These peacock nail art stickers will look like the real dang thing for a fraction of the cost.
Forever21 forever21.com $3.90 SHOP NOW
If the person you’re shopping for has a thing for accessories, get them this cool geometric jewelry holder.
Forever21 forever21.com $3.99 SHOP NOW
Your friend who lives in their biker shorts would be so grateful to add another to their rotation, and this pair comes in six different colors.
Dergo amazon.com $3.29 SHOP NOW
Whether your friend’s a VSCO girl or just likes to wear scrunchies to sleep at night, they’d love to add another to their collection.
Freedi amazon.com $0.49 SHOP NOW
If your friend is all about the trends, they’d be so pumped to open up a present and find this eyeglass chain inside. And hey, get one for your grandma, too, while you’re at it.
Forever21 forever21.com $4.90 SHOP NOW
Real leather belts can get pricey, but this faux-leather one is a stylish alternative and makes a great gift too.
Brooke Shunatona Brooke Shunatona is a contributing writer for Cosmopolitan.com.
