
# 'Great signing' - Liverpool fans make £60m Aston Villa transfer demand

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:28:44+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/john-mcginn-liverpool-transfer-villa-17193558)

Liverpool fans want to see John McGinn at Anfield after Saturday’s 2-1 victory against Aston Villa.
The Reds took all three points so extend their lead at the top of the Premier League, coming from behind after Trezeguet had fired Villa into a first-half lead.
Late goals from Andy Robertson and Sadio Mane turned the game on its head and Jurgen Klopp’s side now have a six-point advantage over Manchester City.
But it was Villa midfielder McGinn who caught the eye of plenty of Liverpool supporters.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
The Scotland international was a stand-out performer, driving Villa forward in the absence of Jack Grealish who missed out through injury.
He’s impressed all season after helping Villa to win promotion – and Manchester United are said to be keeping tabs on his performances.
McGinn is said to be valued at around £60m and Dean Smith said last month: “The big clubs can come calling but they’ll get a short, swift reply! He’s a player we want here at Aston Villa.”
 
But that hasn’t put off Liverpool fans who think the 25-year-old should be a target for their side. Here’s what they have been saying:
@Redxabi141: Liverpool needs to look at McGinn as a long term Milly (Milner) replacement. Quality player!
@Jell_1982: Thought Villa were excellent yesterday. Yes we created a lot of chances but they didn’t just put 11 behind the ball. McGinn looks a top player.
@Kev_Charlton: Credit to Villa, they were good. McGinn would be a great signing for us to add to the Scottish contingent (of 1). Absolutely amazing end to the game, Trent class all game.
 
@Dantunna: McGinn would be a great signing for #LFC to replace Lallana, who is likely to leave at the end of the season.
@Nayanmoha: John McGinn better than all our three midfielders.
