
# Google Camera 7.2 brings astrophotography mode to older Pixel phones

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:14:14+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/pixel-4s-astrophotography-mode-comes-older-pixels-google-camera-72?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Hayato Huseman / Android Central
      
Just as it had promised, Google has started rolling out (via 9to5Google) version 7.2 of its Camera app for the Pixel 3 and Pixel 2 series smartphones on the Play Store. While the Pixel 4 and 4 XL received the Google Camera 7.2 soon after they went on sale last month, older Pixel phones had so far been stuck on version 6.3 of the app.
The Google Camera 7.2 update brings nearly all the features that are available on the Pixel 4 series phones, including the astrophotography mode. However, the first thing that you will notice when you update the app will be the refreshed interface.
The latest version of the Google Camera app moves the mode switcher to the bottom and comes with redesigned zoom and exposure sliders as well. You will also find social sharing options on the bottom right. The feature basically lets you quickly share your photos with friends and family on apps such as Messages, WhatsApp, Telegram, and Instagram.
The biggest highlight, of course, is the new astrophotography mode, which lets you capture some great photos of stars and other astronomical objects. All you will have to do is enable Night Sight and point your phone at the night sky while keeping it as steady as you possibly can.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        One eternity later Hey Google — why hasn't my Pixel 4 gotten the November security patch? The Pixel 4 is Google's latest flagship smartphone, so why is it still stuck on the October security patch?
      

        🐠🐡🐟🦈 Something fishy's going on: How Google names in-development Pixels Did you know your Pixel phone was named after a fish? Check out the faces behind the names for Google's Pixel line.
      

        Smarter Smart Screens You no longer have to ask your Google Smart Display when a photo was taken Google Photos on smart displays now shows the date and the length of time since a photo was taken. Huzzah!
      

        Unbreakable Take your Pixel 3's protection to the next level with a rugged case The Google Pixel 3 is a darn good phone, so it'd be a shame if something bad happened to it. Keep it as safe as can be with one of these rugged cases.
      
