
# LIVE ISL 2019-20 | Jamshedpur FC vs Bengaluru FC – Match 15

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:18:21+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/03/live-isl-2019-20-jamshedpur-fc-vs-bengaluru-fc-match-15?utm_medium=rss)


        A winless Bengaluru FC travel to the Furnace on Sunday to face an in-form Jamshedpur FC side, who hasn’t lost or drawn any of the two matches that they have played so far this season. A win could see the Men of Steel go top of the table, leapfrogging ATK, while BFC aim to break into the top four.
      
Antonio Iriondo’s men have been in some form after an encouraging 10-men win against Odisha FC in their very first match of the season. They replicated their prolific display against Hyderabad FC with the same set of forwards running riot in opponents’ penalty box and the challenge only gets tougher from here on. They would be against a more robust BFC side with the likes of Albert Serran and Juanan way more organized and experienced that Odisha or Hyderabad.
However, as far as the pressure is concerned, the Blues would really feel it after they drew against FC Goa in almost the minute after leading most of the second half. Carles Cuadrat has the tag of the “defending champions“ to live up to and lack of wins could see him making impulsive changes in the match on Sunday.
There is hardly anything going wrong for the Men of Steel. Even the pathetic refereeing, which has preyed on every team this season, have hardly done any injustice to Iriondo’s side. On the injury front, there are the only side to not see any major names out injured and the recent return of CK Vineeth further adding icing on the cake. The veteran forward could be a huge help for the likes of Farukh Choudhary and Aniket Jadhav. 
Bengaluru, however, don’t have the same luxury as they still miss a towering pillar in Erik Paartalu, who has been suffering an ankle problem for long now. The Australian hasn’t even travelled with his side to Jamshedpur. However, with Serran making an inspiring bench appearance against FC Goa in the last match, Ashique Kuruniyan might not be starting in his new-found left-back position or starting at all. 
The first and foremost key player for Jamshedpur would be Piti. The Spanish playmaker is two-month-old into ISL and has already become a fan favourite. Apart from the JFC fans, Piti’s composure on the ball and ability to find teammates with a perfectly-weighed floating ball would impress any football lover. Apart from him, the Indian duo of Farukh and Aniket would be crucial for Jamshedpur for the immense work rate they put and the goals that are coming as a result of it.
Bengaluru have a number of players who could play key roles in the crucial away match and it begins with Raphael Augusto in the heart of the field. The Brazilian has been instrumental in BFC retaining the ball in the opponents’ half and if only he had gotten the right kind of support from his forward three – Udanta Singh, Manuel Onwu, and Sunil Chhetri. After scoring a goal in the last match against Goa Udanta must be brimming with confidence.
Gaining entrance in the ISL back in the 2017-18 season, both teams have gone their separate ways. While Bengaluru have managed to stay on top for two consecutive seasons, JFC could only sustain mediocrity at best. They have faced four times in two seasons with Bengaluru winning twice and drawing one. The only win for Jamshedpur, however, was a mammoth 5-1 in their backyard last season.
Jamshedpur FC:Subrata Paul, Robin Gurung, Memo, Tiri, Keegan Pereira, Aitor Monroy, Mobashir Rahman, Piti, Isaac Vanmalsawma, Farukh Chaudhary, Sergio Castel
Bengaluru FC:Gurpreet Singh Sandhu, Rahul Bheke, Albert Serran, Juanan Gonzalez, Nishu Kumar, Dimas Delgado, Harmanjot Singh Khabra, Raphael Augusto, Udanta Singh, Sunil Chhetri, Manuel Onwu
Jamshedpur FC: W-W-W-D-L
Bengaluru FC: D-D-W-W-L
The Spaniard broke into the scene only after Albert Roca left Bengaluru FC, and Cuadrat made a huge name for himself last season with many considering him the best man for the job. Having previously been the assistant manager of Saudi Arabia and El Salvador, Cuadrat is known for his brilliant camaraderie with players.
The Spanish manager has a vast experience in Spain and has managed several clubs. To make things easier, he has a mini Spanish squad under his command at Jamshedpur. He plays high-line tactics, which was seen against Odisha FC even playing with 10 men. The 65-year-old coach’s first outing outside Spain for the first time might be fruitful considering the strong squad he has.
