
# Charlie Nicholas claims Celtic got lucky against Lazio as he makes Europa League predictions

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:48:33+00:00**

Author: **Record Sport Online**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/charlie-nicholas-claims-celtic-lucky-20822020)

Charlie Nicholas claims Celtic got lucky against Lazio as he tipped the Italians to exact revenge this week.
Neil Lennon's side roared back from a goal down to defeat the Serie A giants 2-1 on a stirring Europa League night at Parkhead in October.
It was a recovery Nicholas described as "brilliant" - but he believes Simone Inzaghi's side should've been out of sight before Ryan Christie and Christopher Jullien turned the result on its head.
The former Hoops striker predicts an angry reaction from the Serie A giants and is backing a narrow 1-0 home win at the Stadio Olimpico on Thursday.
He told Sky Sports: "I am feeling a bit awkward about this one. Celtic did brilliantly to beat them with a last-gasp winner first time around.
"I did flag up a 2-1 win, but they were fortunate. Celtic needed to take a good scalp eventually.
"In this one, do they attack, counter-attack or sit in? They are not a team that naturally sit in. Domestically, they have 70 per cent of the ball.
"Celtic are getting better at it and Neil Lennon is asking them to play the ball forward much quicker.
Lazio will be angry and agitated as they should have gone two or three up at Celtic Park. The Serie A side must win here to stay in the group.
"Cluj will win I think so it may come down to head-to-head with these two sides. Lazio went fourth in Serie A and will get their revenge in this one."
Elsewhere, Nicholas has predicted Rangers will earn a repeat of their 1-1 draw in Estadio do Dragao as Porto head for Ibrox.
Alfredo Morelos secured a precious point last time out and a similar result would keep Steven Gerrard's side in contention to reach the knockout stage.
Nicholas added: "It is hard to pin who wins this group and this result will leave it wide open with a draw."
