
# The Lenovo C340-11 outdoes the C330 in every single way

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:00:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/lenovo-chromebook-c340-vs-lenovo-chromebook-c330?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)

Lenovo's follow-up to its most popular Chromebook brings some class and extra productivity to a compact machine that could already run all day with ease. Combined with aggressive pricing and two color options, the C340-11 is a slam dunk Chromebook.

        $301 at Amazon
      
The C330 is a great Chromebook, but it's almost the same price as the new model without the extra ports, extra colors, or the iron-clad guarantee that it will receive updates after June 2023. Once it gets steeper sales, it'll be a good budget buy, but it's a waiting game right now.

        $270 from Amazon
      
Lenovo hit a home-run with the affordable workhorse Lenovo Chromebook C330, but there were some minor complaints that the company tried to rememdy with its successor. At long last, the C340 is here, and now that it is out and on sale, the decision between the new and old models is a suprisingly simple choice to make.
Source: Ara Wagoner / Android Central Lenovo Chromebook C330 on the left, Lenovo Chromebook 340-11 on the right
When you hold the two generations of the C330 line up to each other, they're practically twins. The C340-11 is slightly smaller in all directions — the depth most notably — and the keyboard isn't quite as rounded at the edges, but typing experience and the trackpad are the same. While the C330 is an all-plastic affair, the C340-11 dresses up a bit fancier with an aluminum lid, though the rest of the body is plastic. Despite the switch to a metal lid, the weight is the same, and it's just as easy to carry the C340-11 around a busy classroom or a crowded cafe as its predecessor.
Yes, the bezels around the screen are still huge, but that makes it easier to hold the C340-11 in tablet mode without accidental taps on the screen. The screens between the old and new generation are the same on paper, though my C340's screen is a bit cooler than the slightly yellow screen on my C330, but both get bright enough to use in the shade outdoors and dim enough to use in a dim dorm room without waking your roommate.

        Source: Ara Wagoner / Android Central
      
There's also two color options for the C340-11, a delightfully rosy Sand Pink and the more neutral Platinum Gray. The Sand Pink is a lovely shade that brings some much-needed personality to a Chromebook market oversaturated with blacks and grays. Even more important than the slight cosmetic changes are the additions of extra USB ports and larger volume and power buttons.
You'll notice there's not a whole lot of differences in that spec table, but make no mistake, the few changes made here are significant, especially in regards to memory and available ports. Having a USB-C and USB-A port on each side of the Chromebook makes things significantly easier when you're plugging it in to charge. It also gives you a fallback if somehow you manage to break one of these reinforced ports.
I would be heaping on the praises of Lenovo for including an 8GB RAM option for the C340-11, but until those models actually are available for purchase, it's just a number on a page. When an 8GB/64GB C340-11 is available, it is 100% the model you'll want to buy, but 4GB has been enough for me to work with as I keep 8-12 tabs open at a time and a couple Android apps handy. More RAM is always better in a Chromebook, but 4GB is enough to get by today.

        Source: Ara Wagoner / Android Central
      
The C330's only real failing last year was that it had a short support life. When it was announced it had an AUE date of June 2022. A recent update from Google announced end-of-life extensions for several Lenovo Chromebooks, most notably the C330, but the new AUE date of June 2025 isn't set in stone. It's reliant on component suppliers helping Google ensure that new Chrome OS updates are compatible with their parts.
There are few reasons you'd want to choose the C330 over the C340-11 unless you really just have to have an HDMI port on the Chromebook itself or you prefer the Blizzard White plastic over the new shiny aluminum lids. The price difference is too small to not go for the extra ports and the assured updates on the C340-11. However, when the C330 starts getting some more sales it could make for a good bargain buy.
Better in every way and prettier to boot.
Double the USB ports and a more powerful Intel processor sweeten the pot on last year's best workhorse Chromebook. The Aluminum lid and two color options give the C340-11 a more premium feel without giving it a premium price hike.
Wait for the holiday sales.
This small discount isn't quite worth it to not get the newer, sweeter version. However, if you don't mind having fewer USB ports, watch for the C330 to go on sale — it's bound to happen — and get yourself a dependable Chromebook for less.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Storage expansion These are the best external hard drives for your Chromebook Expanding the available storage space on your Chromebook is really easy. All you need is an external hard drive or solid-state drive (SSD) that can use one of the available USB ports. Here are the best options for your Google-powered laptop.
      

        Sleeved protection Get rid of the backpack and use one of these sleeves with your Chromebook If you don't want to fuss with a backpack to travel with your Chromebook, then you might want to check out using a sleeve. These still offer great protection without the added bulk of lugging around a bag with you all day long.
      

        Best stuff in life is free Outlast 2 brings the scares in November's free PS Plus games If you have a PlayStation Plus membership, then you know about PlayStation's free games of the month. Here are the free games you can get this month with your membership.
      
