
# Khalilur Rehman Qamar's misogynistic spree continues in yet another interview

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:12:49+00:00**

Author: **Entertainment Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2093128/4-khalilur-rehman-qamars-misogynistic-spree-continues-yet-another-interview/)

Khalilur Rehman Qamar, the brains behind Lunda Bazar, Pyaray Afzal, Sadqay Tumharay and many other popular projects, recently sparked quite a controversy after a recent interview of his went viral on social media.
The celebrated writer, in the interview, had shared some rather derogatory remarks about women, feminism and infidelity, as well as defended the misogyny found in many of his scripts. Qamar is being slammed all over social media for what he said. However, in a new statement given to a local publication, the showbiz giant has declared that he doesn’t care what people have to say about him.
In yet another interview, the Mere Pass Tum Ho script-writer said he is aware of the backlash against him. But he just sees it as jealousy and feels pity for those talking about him.
“I call such people sick and one should pray for their recovery,” Qamar stated. “Those who say that my dialogues are verbose, I would just want to say to them that I do not talk vulgar in routine so how would I do that in my writing?”
He added, “If someone lacks the sense to comprehend my writing and considers that it is hard to understand, I can’t help but pity their lack of mindlessness. If I am honest, I don’t write for those who lack the skill to comprehend. I have no way of teaching the dumb.”
Qamar said he will not change the way he writes since no one is ‘daring’ enough to make him change it. And if actors  who are calling him out are capable enough, they can write and he can do the acting. “Any one who would try to change my writing would never be seen in any of my dramas or films,” the director, whose recent release Kaaf Kangana, bombed at the box office, said. “Isn’t it unfortunate that a man who defends his script is called rude? My dialogues are poetic. A pause in the rhythm ruins the entire scene. Hence, I need to express my anger. Now it is up to you how you label it.”
Qamar stated he does not intervene in anyone else’s work except his own. “I do not drag the stories, or write a sequel. And I won’t criticise any other writer either,” he continued.
The writer irked many last week, when he said he does not consider all women to be women. When asked if he respects them, Qamar responded, “I often say that a good man cannot run a society but a good woman can. Unlike men, a woman can say no. When a man doesn’t refuse, a home gets ruined. But when a woman doesn’t refuse, a whole generation goes down the hill.”
