
# Two lucky players split £12.6m Lotto jackpot after matching all seven numbers

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:28:26+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Wilkes, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-two-lucky-players-split-20828587)

Two ticket holders have won tonight's £12.6million National Lottery jackpot, splitting it equally between them.
Andy Carter, Senior Winners’ Advisor at The National Lottery, said: "Tonight’s whopping £12.6M ‘Must Be Won’ Lotto jackpot has been won by two lucky Lotto players, each banking a £6.3M share of the jackpot. All players are urged to check their tickets to see if they are The National Lottery’s latest big jackpot winners.
"By buying a ticket for Lotto or any other National Lottery game, every player is helping to raise money for Good Causes. On average, around £30M is raised every week for projects across the UK, both big and small, including funding everything from local community projects to preserving the nation’s heritage.”
We'll be bringing you the very latest updates, pictures and video on this breaking news story.
Please check back regularly for updates on this developing story here at  Mirror.co.uk .
For the latest news and breaking news visit  Mirror.co.uk/news .
Get all the big headlines, pictures, analysis, opinion and video on the stories that matter to you.
Follow us on Twitter  @DailyMirror - the official Daily Mirror & Mirror Online Twitter account - real news in real time.
We're also on Facebook /dailymirror - your must-see news, features, videos and pictures throughout the day from the Daily Mirror, Sunday Mirror and Mirror Online.
