
# Slipknot to headline Hammersonic Festival in Jakarta next year

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:44:37+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Jakarta**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/jakarta/lifestyle/slipknot-to-headline-hammersonic-festival-in-jakarta-next-year/)

After having skipped this year’s edition, the annual headbang fest Hammersonic Festival will be back on March 27-28, 2020, and it is marking the return with the announcement of American heavy metal legends Slipknot.
https://www.instagram.com/p/B4hYDyDlDD-/
Slipknot has also confirmed upcoming concerts in Asia — including Jakarta on March 27 — as part of the We Are Not Your Kind World Tour to promote their latest and sixth album of the same name, which was released in August. The album debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200.
Despite having only announced one act, Hammersonic tickets will be available to purchase on its official website starting from Monday, Nov. 11. The early bird price for a two-day pass is IDR750K (US$53.42). Once they sell out, prices will go up to IDR1.25 million (US$89) and IDR1.7 million (US$121) for pre-sale. Tickets will also be available on the spot, with Friday pass ticket priced at IDR1.2 million (US$85.47) and Saturday at IDR800K (US$57).
Hammersonic was last held on July 22, 2018 in Ancol, North Jakarta featuring local and international metal and rock acts such as Noxa, Koil, American rock band Escape The Fate, Norwegian symphonic black metal composer and singer Ihsahn, and Swedish heavy metal band In Flames. Aside from metal, there were punk acts such as American band Dead Kennedys and Indonesian collective punk group Marjinal.
Slipknot was founded in 1995 in Des Moines, Iowa by drummer Joey Jordison, percussionist Shawn Crahan, and the late bassist Paul Gray. The band, which is famous for the frightening masks worn by its members on stage, have eight members in the current lineup, with Crahan as the last remaining original member and Corey Taylor as the lead vocalist.
Known for their aggressive style of music and chaotic live shows, Slipknot has released six studio albums and sold 30 million records worldwide: Slipknot (1999), Iowa (2001), Vol. 3: (The Subliminal Verses) (2004), All Hope is Gone (2008), .5: The Gray Chapter (2014), and We Are Not Your Kind.

        Stay up-to-date with the coolest events in Jakarta 
        
          here
        
        .
      
