
# Pain behind Lewis Hamilton's title win as celebrations marred by death of team employee

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:29:51+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/formula-1/pain-behind-lewis-hamiltons-title-20813687)

Lewis Hamilton achieved his sixth Formula 1 World Championship in the wake of a Mercedes employee’s tragic death.
Hamilton’s second-place finish at the US Grand Prix on Sunday was enough to secure the title but his team have been left devastated by the fatality last month.
A 29-year-old employee was on his way home from the team’s Brackley HQ in Northamptonshire in the early hours of October 15 when tragedy struck.
The unnamed employee was travelling in a Mercedes 300 AMG which came off the A422, mounted a grass verge and crashed into a tree.
He was confirmed dead at the scene.
Northamptonshire Police are currently preparing a file for the coroner.
The force have called for anyone with information to get in contact.
A spokesperson said: “Just after midnight on Tuesday, October 15, a White Mercedes 300 AMG travelling in the direction of Farthinghoe left the carriageway, for reasons yet unknown, mounted the grass verge and collided with a tree.
“As a result of the collision, the driver, a 29-year-old man, died at the scene.”
A Mercedes spokesperson said: “We can sadly confirm that a team member lost his life in a road traffic accident when returning home on the evening of Monday 14 October.
“The team is in contact with the family and supporting them at this difficult time.”
The fatal incident happened less than 48 hours after Mercedes won the Constructors’ Championship.
Valtteri Bottas’ victory in the Japanese Grand Prix combined with Hamilton’s podium finish was enough to clinch team success.
Hamilton’s latest title puts him second on the all-time list behind Michael Schumacher .
The 34-year-old dedicated his win to his family and the late Niki Lauda.
Hamilton's family including father Anthony, the driving force behind Lewis' career, step-mother, Linda and paternal mother Carmen were there to watch his coronation in Austin.
Hamilton said: "It's hard to understand what I'm feeling right now. Naturally, it's just pure happiness and I feel more humble than ever.
"I just saw my parents as I came in and just looking at my dad's smile says it all.
"He supported me from day one - as did Linda, as did my mum. They've worked so hard for me to be here so I really wanted them to come out together.
"I think this the first race I can remember for a long, long time that they've been together and us being united as a family.
"Cloud nine doesn't even get close to where I am. I'm somewhere far above that."
