
# Man abducts friend, blackmails him to get property

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Pragna L Krupa**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/man-abducts-friend-blackmails-him-to-get-property/articleshow/71930504.cms)

A 50-year-old Bengaluru businessman has filed a complaint against his friend for allegedly kidnapping him and keeping him under house arrest for a month and forcing him to transfer all his properties worth Rs 6 to Rs 7 crore. The kidnapper had allegedly threatened to kill his family and asked him not to file a police complaint. Though the incident took place last year, the complainant, MG Anandkumar, a resident of Begur filed a complaint with the Hulimavu police station on Thursday against his friend, Gnanadev H, 50, a resident of JP Nagar. In his complaint to the police, Anandkumar stated that on 2 November 2018, Gnanadev took him in his car from Akshya Nagar to his house stating that all loan recovery agents were on the lookout for him and locked him inside a room. Gnanadev told him that the CCB police were also on a lookout for him and convinced to help him. He promised to look after his daughter’s education and would also help with his family matters. Gnanadev made a private bank manager of JP Nagar, to come to his house and opened a bank account under Anandkumar’s name. He took the cheque books along with debit card and asked him to sign the cheques as well. Gnanadev then threatened to destroy his family and blackmailed him to transfer five lands in Begur under his name along with others who were known to him. Gnanadev used the signed cheques and on December 1, 2018 while releasing Anandhkumar, he threatened him keep mum about the matter. Fearing the safety of his family, he did not approach the police for a year. “The incident took place last year and we have asked him to produce supporting documents for his claims and we are investigating the case from all angles,” said an officer on part of the investigations. Hulimavu police have registered a case and are further investigations are on.
