
# Philips launches a 24-inch Android TV designed for the kitchen

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:09:26+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/philips-launches-android-tv-kitchen-built-google-assistant?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Philips
      
Philips today launched (via 9to5Google) a truly unique Android TV that is unlike anything else that we have seen so far. The TV has been designed for use in the kitchen and comes with a built-in Google Assistant speaker.
As can be seen quite clearly in the image below, the TV has a centered stand that houses two speakers as well as far-field microphones. Similar to smart displays such as the Nest Hub Max, the latest Android TV from Philips can be used to follow cooking recipes on YouTube or watching your favorite shows while you cook. The bundled remote even has dedicated buttons for YouTube and Netflix.

        Source: Philips
      
Youssef Ibrahim, Senior Product Marketing Manager at Funai Corporation, said in statement:
Since it runs on the Android TV platform, you will be able to access from over 5,000 different apps on the Google Play Store. Philips has priced the TV at $300 and says it will be available from major retailers across the United States and Canada starting today. Currently, however, the TV isn't available for purchase online.

        Best Cheap Android TVs in 2019
      

        more privacy Latest WhatsApp update lets you control who can add you to a group WhatsApp has made a few changes to its Group Privacy Settings to give users more control over who can add them to a group chat.
      

        Here we go! Amazon's big Black Friday sales on its hardware kick off November 22 If you were wondering when you would be able to get your hands on Amazon's devices for less during Black Friday, the answer is here. The company will be staggering the deals with the first set of price drops taking place on November 22.
      

        App Defense Offense Google's App Defense Alliance teams up to fight malware on Android Google is sharing technology and creating a partnership of mobile endpoint security companies to identify and control the spread of malware
      

        Get your game on What controllers are compatible with the NVIDIA Shield TV Pro (2019)? The NVIDIA Shield TV Pro continues to offer the best Android TV experience for gamers, but you'll need to supply your own controller to get in on the fun.
      
