
# Gazing outwards: “People! They’re the worst!”

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/opinion/others/gazing-outwards-people-theyre-the-worst/articleshow/71882762.cms)

By Joshua Muyiwa For years and years, I’ve been dying to use this Elaine Benes quote from Seinfeld – my favourite sitcom of all time, “You are through, Soup Nazi. Pack it up! No more soup for you! Next!” But, the perfect moment to detonate this brilliant line has continued to elude me to this day. Though, there are other lines from this show that have found themselves in my daily turn of phrases, peppered proudly through most of my conversations. Just recently, I found myself angrily spitting out another favourite line from this series, one that I seem to use to death, “People! They’re the worst!”As you can see, this line is delicious as it contains multitudes and is able to describe succinctly every frustrating situation that we have ever been in. And just this week, it came in handy again to nail the sheer terribleness of my fellow city dwellers. Somebody had just abandoned one of these new-fangled self-drive rental bikes right in the middle of the street. Neither was it badly parked nor was it sticking out into the street. It was just left bang in the middle of it. And this isn’t the first time, I’ve noticed this lack of concern, care and citizenry with regards to these vehicles. Since the launch of these app-based bike rental services in the city, I’ve been boiling, brimming and bursting with rage with regards to the careless manner in which people (ab)use these vehicles. Users of these conveniences leave them on footpaths, not even neatly or lined up but in complete disarray. I’ve seen them dumped in front of people’s gates, leaned against the railings of traffic circles and even a traffic signal. Yes, you want to say it together, guys? One, two, three! “People! They’re the worst!” At each of these times, the conveniences of these users have come at the inconvenience of others. On the occasion that the bike was junked in the middle of street led to traffic being backed up for many kilometres and everyone being frustrated with each other. Meanwhile, their true target had messed up and escaped. The person to blame is always missing, and if you do want to complain to the company – there’s a person missing there too. “Having good manners isn’t about being hoity-toity, it is about acknowledging actions done by others, or even acknowledging another,” my biologist bestie’s mother said. And she’s more than right. For a long time, I was on the other side of this fence. As a child, I disliked saying ‘thank you’ and at some point even arrived at a pretty legitimate argument for this stance. My logic was that phrases like ‘thank you’ and ‘please’ were introduced to the Indian languages much much later in their history, and I postulated it is because as a culture, we’d rather show than tell. I mean my most loving grandparents were averse to physical contact on most days of the year. There were exceptions more often than they liked. While we did not say too many plainly affectionate things to each other, we found ways of demonstrating it to each other. And if we did say something loving, it was the way we told stories of each other and the way we remembered each other. I felt like we imprinted this warmth on each other, not necessarily with words but there was never any sense of lacking. But even I have to admit that they did slip, slide and stayed in our languages. And yes, we might have to find ways to use them that don’t echo with their caste, class and creed prejudices, but we must use them. I’ve found seeing my neighbour from downstairs, who smiles from ear to ear, and hearing him holler, ‘Good Morning!’ usually results in a better one. It just does. As someone who has tailored his life to interact with the world the least possible times in a day, manners allow me to glide into it. On my outings to get vegetables and meat, I smile at people, and they smile at me. We’ve grown to sharing a cup of tea lately. Perhaps, it is striking a balance between word and deed that’s the better path to take. Of late, I have started using the phrases ‘thank you’ and ‘please’. Though, I also make sure to not erase the ways of demonstrating them too, like I might save them the last piece of chocolate or let them have the last dosa and so on. Whatever it is, we must find our own ways to saying, ‘Hey! I see you!” and once you do, you won’t be leaving bikes across the city willy-nilly because it is someone else’s problem. But till then: let’s say it together with full feeling: People! They’re the worst!
