
# ‘As a Private Citizen:’ Trump Jr. Responds to Backlash Over Sharing Whistleblower Identity Story

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:34:04+00:00**

Author: **by Lilia Dergacheva**

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/us/201911071077242512-as-a-private-citizen-trump-jr-responds-to-backlash-over-sharing-whistleblower-identity-story/)


        Since the alleged whistleblower’s identity, protected by special legislation, hasn’t been confirmed, Trump Jr.’s tweets bringing up a concrete name met a barrage of criticism, despite it having been mentioned many times before.
      
A storm of reactions ensued after Donald Trump Jr.’s recent publication of a link to a Breitbart story that mentioned the name of the alleged whistleblower, whose complaint has triggered formal impeachment proceedings against POTUS.
Most, who were angered by the presidential son’s tweet, claimed his revelation was breaking strict conventions – namely the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 - to safeguard officials that blow the whistle on what they see as wrongdoing in the administration.
Amid calls by POTUS himself to expose the whistleblower, his son in his turn flew off the handle over the ubiquitous criticism arguing he posted the link as “a private citizen” and he did no more than just peddle off old stuff when he posted the now purportedly deleted link mentioning a CIA analyst, with the latter echoing an earlier report by The New York Times that the whistleblower was from the intelligence ranks and has expertise on Ukraine.
“The entire media is #Triggered that I (a private citizen) tweeted out a story naming the alleged whistleblower. Are they going to pretend that his name hasn’t been in the public domain for weeks now? Numerous people & news outlets including Real Clear Politics already ID’d him”, Trump Jr. tweeted.
