
# Rotation Policy Confirmed, More Changes For Soweto Derby?

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mazola Molefe**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/why-pirates-are-chopping-changing/666547)

Group dynamics and keeping everybody happy has been given as the reason why Orlando Pirates seem to prefer rotating their starting line-up so much.
Coach Rulani Mokwena was this week asked why he’d already used an incredible number of 23 players in his starting line within the two months he has been in charge of the Buccaneers – and that was his response.

        Read: Five Big Name Players To Watch In The Soweto Derby 
      
“We have a big squad and we are trying to keep everybody happy. So of course you have to think about group dynamics as well,” Mokwena, speaking ahead of the Soweto Derby against Kaizer Chiefs in the quarterfinals of the Telkom Knockout this afternoon, said.
“You’ve always got to try and manage a big squad and part of doing that is trying to give minutes to everyone. And the other side is the one you’ve not heard me talk about – our injuries. We’ve had a lot of injuries this season and we don’t complain about it because everyone that comes in always knows what needs to be done.”
You can expect one or two changes this afternoon in Durban, with Thembinkosi Lorch expected to return to the starting line-up after he was left out of Pirates’ midweek match away to Highlands Park because of his yellow cards.
And if Mokwena is following the same approach, Lorch won’t be the only change against an in-form Chiefs team that has won eight of their 10 games this season.

        Read: Desperate Plea To The PSL 
      
