
# This New Cargo E-Bike Is Fighting An Uphill Battle

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Kramer**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/scottkramer/2019/11/03/this-new-cargo-e-bike-is-fighting-an-uphill-battle/)

Cargo electric bikes have this inherent issue: They’re generally built solidly to help you lug things around. But to gain that sturdiness, their sheer size and heavy-duty parts make for collectively heavy bikes. A heavier bike logically has a tough go of getting up hills. For me, that’s unfortunate as I live in a hilly area. But in the spirit of being open-minded and curious, I agreed to test out the new Packa cargo bike from Blix.In the case of this 72-pound model, it has an additional 7-pound second battery (the battery’s color nicely matches the bike). The presence of that second battery means it doubles the bike’s riding range to 70 miles. The downside is it adds weight that makes it a little more sluggish while you’re riding. And in my hilly neighborhood, while the Packa handled mild hills like a champ, it had a difficult time getting up the steeper ones. Mind you, I wasn’t loading any cargo onto the bike — just my 165-pound body. I can’t imagine how it would be able to climb the hills with cargo. I took it out on my standard route that I test e-bikes on — to a local grocery store where I think would be a natural destination for people with cargo e-bikes. Going up the route’s steepest hill — where most e-bikes I’ve tested go from 11 to 18 miles per hour — the Packa topped out at just 5.8. That included me pedaling with pedal assist maxed out, and with the throttle engaged. The whole time I kept wondering how a mom could possibly do this with even just one grocery bag or a kid on a seat attachment in the rear.
It’s too bad, because there’s a lot to like about this bike. For one, it looks nice and beachy. Several people gushed over its looks while I rode past them. It even has color-matched running boards along both sides of the rear tire. Secondly, it’s maybe the quietest e-bike I’ve ever been on. You don’t hear a hum, which is a great safety feature because you can hear approaching cars much easier than on other bikes. Thirdly, it’s really comfortable. You can adjust the handlebars so that they’re at a relaxing angle for you, while the padded, comfy saddle is easily adjustable, as well. Also, the LCD is large, vibrant, easy to read in sunlight, and has a USB port on the side so that you can keep your phone charged. And I like that the 24-inch wheels seem more stable than larger diameters, and the tires are puncture-resistant. 
On paper, the specs are outstanding — including a 750w rear motor, Tektro disc brakes, seven-speed Shimano gear shifter, dual batteries, comfortable grips, aluminum alloy frame, throttle, five pedal assist levels, modular rack system, blinking rear light and a headlamp. The bike is built for safety, no doubt. It’s just that when you get on it and start moving, it can be a bit sluggish at first if you’re just pedaling – likely a weight issue. So if you’re like me and prefer to break away from red lights and through intersections quickly, you really need to use the throttle. When going downhill, again because of the weight, I found myself braking often because the Packa will pick up momentum and speed. And on flat ground, it cruises along just fine. If it could only do the same going uphill on steeper streets. But if you live in a fairly flat area – even one with mild hills – and are seeking an e-bike to take your small children around on, this may be a nice fit for you.
