
# Red, white wine may keep sore throat away

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:16:31+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/lifestyle/health-and-wellness/red-white-wine-may-keep-sore-throat-away)

A study published in the Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry showed that compounds found in wine could kill 99.9 percent of germs that cause sore throats.
An old study in 1988 found that wine had antibacterial properties, and the latest research has concluded that the acidity and alcohol concentration in wine was not responsible for this, as was previously believed. It was due to a number of organic compounds found in both red and white wines.
Doctors said streptococcal bacteria, is the primary cause of mild sore throat to strep throat.
A group of scientists from the Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry at the University of Pavia in Italy “de-alcoholized” the wine used, or basically removed the alcohol and left the various compounds intact, and found that both types of wine were effective against streptococcal bacteria, preventing sore throats.
Streptococcus mutans is the strain of strep bacteria that destroys teeth and causes cavities. Scientists found that the compounds in wine were effective antimicrobial agents that could kill this strain of strep bacteria.
There are many different types of Streptococci bacteria, and infections vary in severity from mild throat infections to life-threatening infections of the blood or organs. Most streptococcal infections can be treated with antibiotics.
The study also found that red wine may be better than mouthwash at preventing cavities and gum disease. Gum disease, when left untreated, could lead to cancer, diabetes and other serious disease.
Red wine and the grapes it is made from, is rich in resveratrol, an antioxidant that can slow the aging process and help prevent cancer and heart disease.
Resveratrol is also found in dark chocolate, berries, and nuts, as well as in supplement form). But if you want to douse the sore throat- and cavity-causing germs, you may have to enjoy at least a glass of red wine a day.
So, if you feel that sore throat coming on, a glass of wine may be just what you need.
