
# ICC deem Kane Williamson's bowling action legal

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:18:05+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/icc-deem-kane-williamsons-bowling-action-legal?utm_medium=rss)


        Following an assessment in Loughborough on October 11, ICC has declared that Kane Williamson's bowling action is legal again. During the Galle Test in August earlier this year, Williamson, who had bowled three overs of off-spin in that game, had been reported and undergone a test in Leicestershire.
      
Williamson's bowling action first came under the scanner in 2014 when he was suspended from bowling in international cricket. He was allowed to bowl again at the end of the year after making changes to his action, but during the Galle Test, he was called for a suspect action once again for which he had to undergo a test in an ICC-accredited bio-mechanics centre.
However, now, it was found that the elbow extension of all his deliveries was within the permissible 15-degree level of tolerance. Williamson bowls part-time off-spin and is currently recovering from a hip injury and is not a part of the New Zealand T20I squad for their five-match series against England.
Williamson played in the Plunket Shield last week for Northern Districts and it was concluded after discussions with coach Gary Stead that rest was the best course of action. Now, whenever Willamson returns to play for New Zealand, he can bowl his cheeky off-spin that came to New Zealand's aid many times in the past.
