
# Hollyoaks actress Nadine Mulkerrin talks filming emotional Cleo scenes while pregnant

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:32:49+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/hollyoaks-actress-nadine-mulkerrin-talks-20786491)

Hollyoaks actress Nadine Mulkerrin, who plays Cleo McQueen, has left the Channel 4 soap for her maternity leave, welcoming baby son Reggie in October.
Nadine was over eight months pregnant when she was still filming for the soap, featuring in some pretty emotional scenes as her character discovered a betrayal.
Cleo left the village this week in the wake of the crane disaster, after rumbling her boyfriend Mitchell's affair with Scott.
After Mitchell chose Scott over her, a devastated Cleo realised she was worth more and after a heart-to-heart with ex Joel Dexter, played by her real-life fiancé Rory Douglas-Speed, she departed the show.
 
It comes just weeks after Nadine and Rory welcomed their first child, who Nadine said is her "little best friend".
Speaking of filming the tense scenes during her pregnancy, she confessed she liked having little Reggie with her.
She said: "Everyone was amazing the directors the camera crews everyone looked after me, I ate loads of biscuits, I got to sit down a lot.
"I did keep thinking, Reggie is going to be thinking my mum is mental because she just keeps screaming the whole time, but hopefully he knows it was just acting."
 
She added: "It was nice having him, and sometimes I’d be doing a scene and he’d kick and for a second, I’d kind of be taken out of being Cleo.
"I found it quite funny to experience. It was amazing I loved having him in there."
On being a new mum, Nadine talked of the love she and Rory had for their little one.
Nadine said: "It’s amazing, it’s a scary rollercoaster and I keep panicking about little things and then keeping trying to just remember to chill, it’s all going to be fine.
"Obviously, you just worry about every little thing but he’s amazing and it’s all good. He’s just a dream and he’s our best little friend.
"It’s amazing we are just like a little team and we love him so much."

        Hollyoaks airs weeknights at 6:30pm on Channel 4, with the next episode at 7pm on E4.
      
