
# New anti-terror cell set up

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/new-anti-terror-cell-set-up/articleshow/71930449.cms)

In the backdrop of the announcement made by the home minister during his recent visit to the city police commissioner officer about forming a separate wing to tackle terror activities in the city, CCB sleuths have revamped their structure by including three new wings to the present existing six wings. On Tuesday, the new wing, Anti-Terrorist Cell (ATC) was established under the Central Crime Branch (CCB) which will be headed by an ACP rank officer. The wing will be monitored by Joint Commissioner Police (Crime). Following the reports of JMB and sleeper cells being present in the city, the city police decided to have a separate cell to investigate about such terror activities in the city. The new cell has been formed on the lines of Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) which deals with only terrorism related activities. Recently, the security had been increased in the city after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) revealed that the JMB set up 20 - 22 hideouts in the city and tried to spread their base in South India. Along with ATC, the CCB have formed other two wings, Anti-Narcotics Wing (ANW) and Women Protection Wing (WPW). An officer said that it was difficult for the police personnel to concentrate on multiple tasks, the officers of ANW and WPW will only focus on drug menace and protection of women respectively. Both wings will be headed by an ACP level officer.
