
# What Tesla’s Blast Upward Tells Us About High Short Interest Stocks

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **John Navin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/johnnavin/2019/11/01/what-teslas-blast-upward-tells-us-about-high-short-interest-stocks/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

When short sellers are forced to cover you can get quite a rally. We saw this in October after Tesla reported earnings that exceeded the predictions of Wall Street analysts. The short float in the stock at the time was 25% – very high, to put it mildly, for such a well known name – and the price quickly blasted from the 250 level all the way up to 330.
Here’s how it looked on the weekly price chart:
So many were so short because some analysts who closely study the financials see serious problems. Forbes contributor Jim Collins described his issues with the car manufacturer’s numbers in this piece published in late August.
When Elon Musk’s auto concern reported the better than expected numbers, buyers came in quickly and then the shorts had to buy back their shares. A much bigger than expected rally ensued: the short-covering rally is legendary when it really gets going, as it did in this case.
Seeing Tesla’s mid-October fun, hedge funds searching for unusual upside opportunity might begin looking at other stocks that have been heavily shorted lately.
Here are a few that might be showing up on such lists:
RPC., Inc is an oil and gas exploration company with a 47% short float. The New York Stock Exchange traded stock has dropped from 13 in April to the recent price of 4.27. A 3rd quarter loss and an earnings miss have led to much selling, not to mention much shorting.
On the other hand, Citigroup analysts think it may be worth buying. They’ve just upgraded RPC from “sell” to “neutral.” Not a “buy” rating, but a move in the right direction. If even a hint of good news shows up, the massive shorting in the stock is of interest.
Abercrombie & Fitch is the well-known apparel store chain traded on the New York Stock Exchange which now sports a 21.56% short float. Selling at about book value and paying a 4% dividend, that high short interest seems to indicate a certain lack of confidence among some in the ability of the company to increase earnings.
You can see that it’s one of the stocks not participating in the “new highs” rally for the S&P 500 and other indices. On the other hand, it’s surprising that with that much short interest Abercrombie remains well above the lows it put in back in late 2017.
Tootsie Roll Industries has a 17.43% short float which seems high for such a well known NYSE-traded stock. Earnings have been off lately and although the 5-year record is positive, it’s not positive by much.
If Halloween sales were good – or better than expected – what could happen here? The company has little debt compared to shareholder equity and they’re still paying a 1% dividend yield.
Stats courtesy of FinViz.com.

        I do not hold positions in these investments. No recommendations are made one way or the other.  If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. You can lose money trading or investing in stocks and other instruments. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment advisor.
      
