
# Wealth Of 400 Tycoons on 2019 Forbes China Rich List Rises By More Than A Fifth Despite Slowdown And Trade Friction

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **prforbesasia**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbespr/2019/11/06/wealth-of-400-tycoons-on-2019-forbes-china-rich-list-rises-by-more-than-a-fifth-despite-slowdown-and-trade-friction/)

SINGAPORE (NOVEMBER 7, 2019) – Despite an economic slowdown and ongoing trade friction with the U.S., the total wealth of the 400 members on the 2019 Forbes China Rich List rose by more than a fifth from a year ago, from US$1.06 trillion to $1.29 trillion. The complete list can be found at www.forbes.com/china and www.forbeschina.com. 
China’s trade tensions with the U.S. have risen over the past year, while GDP growth in the world’s second-largest economy has slowed to a near three-decade low. Despite the gloomy headlines, the increased spending of China’s consumers, an ever-growing share of which is online, kept some of China’s richest flourishing. More than half of the listees saw their wealth climb in the past year, while a quarter saw their fortunes fall. The minimum net worth needed to make the list this year was $1 billion, back to 2017’s threshold, after dropping in 2018 to $840 million. There were 60 newcomers to the list; returnees made up most of the rest. 
Topping the list for a second year is Jack Ma, who recently resigned as chairman of the e-commerce giant he cofounded, Alibaba, to focus on philanthropy. Ma’s fortune rose to $38.2 billion from $34.6 billion a year earlier as the New York-listed Alibaba gained on China’s e-commerce boom. Tencent CEO Huateng “Pony” Ma ranks No. 2 with a net worth of $36 billion, followed by Evergrande Group’s chairman Hui Ka Yan who retains his third place with a net worth of $27.7 billion.
Russell Flannery, editor-in-chief of Forbes China, said: “China's economic growth may be easing but the country’s savvy entrepreneurs continue to find ways to create new businesses and fortunes. Access to capital markets also notably helped.”
Sun Piaoyang, chairman of Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine, jumps to No. 4 from No. 15 with a fortune of $25.8 billion. He shares that spot with his wife Zhong Huijuan. Sun is one of the pharmaceutical and healthcare tycoons on the list who are benefiting from higher healthcare spending as Chinese citizens become more affluent.
 Li Xiting, chairman of medical equipment supplier Shenzhen Mindray Bio-Medical Electronics, also moves up the rank to No. 27 with a net worth of $8.55 billion. His company’s shares soared after it relisted in China following its 2016 delisting from the New York Stock Exchange.
Growing fortunes in online shopping appear throughout the list. Colin Huang (No. 7), CEO of e-commerce site Pinduoduo, saw his net worth soar to $21.2 billion from $11.25 billion last year as Pinduoduo gained on rival JD.com. Entrepreneurs who provided services tied to e-commerce like Lai Meisong (No. 66), CEO of Alibaba-backed express delivery firm ZTO, also did well. Lai saw his net worth climbed to $4.6 billion from $3.35 billion.
Notable listees on this year’s list include the leaders of sportswear maker Anta Sports, brothers Ding Shizhong and Ding Shijia, who rank at No. 53 and No. 56, respectively. Shares of their Hong Kong-listed company have more than doubled in the past year, helping to propel their net worths by almost 150% to $5.6 and $5.5 billion. Two Anta executives also landed on the list for the first time. They are CFO Lai Shixian, a Ding brother-in-law, at $1.4 billion and Wang Wenmo, a family cousin who manages the company’s apparel operations.
IPOs were another fuel for fortunes. Zhang Liaoyuan, chairman of snack maker Three Squirrels, and Hui Deng, chairman of software company ArcSoft, debuted on the list with estimated net worths of $1.6 billion and $1 billion, respectively, proving that traditional firms can still create billionaires in China. Both companies went public in July.
Zong Qinghou, founder of Hangzhou Wahaha Group, China’s largest privately held beverage company, ranks No. 31 on the list, with a net worth of $8.2 billion, down slightly from $8.5 billion. He overcame many challenges in his long career which began by selling snacks out of a canteen inside a local school before producing and distributing milk. He later launched a nutritional drink for children in 1988, which became a national hit.
China’s slumping car sales hurt Li Shufu, chairman of Geely Group and main owner of Volvo, who ranks at No. 12 with a net worth of $12.9 billion, down from $14.2 billion.
 The top 10 richest in China are:
This list was compiled using shareholding and financial information obtained from the families and individuals, stock exchanges, analysts and regulatory agencies. Assets were calculated using stock prices and exchange rates as of October 25. Private companies are valued based on similar companies that are publicly listed. Collateralized shares are discounted. Unlike the Forbes Billionaires List, the Forbes China Rich List includes spouses who are involved in their partners’ business. Some estimates also include assets owned by additional family members.
The full list of China’s top 400 richest can be accessed at www.forbes.com/china and www.forbeschina.com.
-END-

        For media queries, please contact:
      

        Catherine Ong Associates Pte Ltd
      
Catherine Ong, tel: +65 6327 6088, cell: +65 9697 0007, cath@catherineong.com
Ashley Silitonga, tel: +65 6221 3321, cell: +65 9025 3532, ashley@catherineong.com
