
# Flipkart Group narrows losses to Rs 17,231 cr in FY19

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **PTI**

Original: [Moneycontrol](https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/flipkart-group-narrows-losses-to-rs-17231-cr-in-fy19-4596461.html)

Flipkart Ltd, the Singapore holding company of the Indian e-commerce major, narrowed its losses to Rs 17,231 crore ($2.42 billion) for the fiscal ended March 2019, while revenues grew by 42 per cent over the previous year, according to financial data platform Paper.vc. The group managed to achieve a 63 per cent reduction in losses from Rs 46,895 crore ($6.6 billion) in 2018 to Rs 17,231 crore ($2.42 billion) for the financial year ending March 31, 2019, it said.
Flipkart posted Rs 42,878 crore revenue from contracts with customers with total revenue adding up to Rs 43,615 crore ($6.14 billion), it added.
The group's revenue in 2018-19 was 42 per cent higher than the previous year's revenue of Rs 30,644 crore ($4.32 billion), Paper.vc said.

        Close
      
Flipkart declined to comment.
In August last year, the US retail giant Walmart had picked up 77 per cent stake in Flipkart for $16 billion. Flipkart group operates a number of entities like e-commerce marketplace Flipkart, fashion portals Myntra and Jabong, digital payments through PhonePe, a wholesale unit and EKart (logistics).
The company had recently said it is setting up a new food retail unit under 'Flipkart Farmermart'.
The group's overall expenses went down significantly from Rs 46,895 crore ($6.6 billion) in 2018 to Rs 17,281 crore ($2.4 billion), the document said attributing the decline to a steep reduction in finance costs.
Excluding finance costs, overall group expenditure went up by 118 per cent. Employee benefit expenses shot up by 58 per cent to Rs 4,254 crore ($600 million).
Flipkart group spent $46.8 million on acquisition in 2019, including $21.4 million on the September 2018 acquisition of Israel-based Upstream Commerce and $10.5 million on the acquisition of Bengaluru-based Liv AI, it said.Special Thursday Expiry on 10th 7th NovEarly Closure to The Great Diwali Discount. Last Chance to get Moneycontrol PRO for a year @ Rs. 289/- only Coupon code: DIWALI
