
# Why F1 got it right with 2021 rules!

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:35:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Newton**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49162/why-f1-got-it-right-with-2021-rules-.html)


        Thursday saw the announcement of the new regulations for F1 in 2021 and there is set to be a huge amounts of changes to really shake up the F1 world. From the budget cap to the aredynamics changes, F1 has got it right and here's why...
      
$175m. That might sound like a lot to you and me but for an F1 team, it's nothing. The top teams such as Mercedes and Ferrari spend in excess of $400m, so the budget cap has been brought in to squeeze that gap between the top and bottom teams. Hopefully it can allow smaller teams such as Williams and Alfa Romeo to produce cars that are closer to the top, and maybe we can see a bit more variation in the winners and podiums of F1.
F1 cars currently lose 50% of downforce when following another car. This makes it incredibly difficult for them to get close and overtake, but in 2021 it is set to drop to just 15% downforce lost. Allowing cars to follow each other closer will reduce the reliance on DRS overtakes, which have become predictable in recent years. Whilst it may make the cars slower, I'm sure most F1 fans would rather see slower lap times but better racing, right?
Every team in 2021 must give at least two FP1 opportunities to drivers with two or less Grands Prix under their belt. So far this season, only two other drivers have participated in an FP1 session, Nicholas Latifi for Williams in Canada and Naoki Yamamoto for Toro Rosso in Japan. This rule has been brought in to give drivers a flavour of the F1 weekend and it can only be a good thing, as rookie drivers will hopefully have a feel for F1 before the make their debuts.
So that's our thoughts, what about yours? Comment below!
