
# After Baghdadi: who are the world's most wanted fugitives?

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:35:26+00:00**

Author: **Michael Safi**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2019/nov/02/after-baghdadi-most-wanted-lists-criminals)


        The tallying of the most heinous criminals on earth is a time-honoured and unstoppable tradition
      
He never touched mobile phones. Had no permanent home. Got his underwear stolen by an informant. And had his final moments narrated by Donald Trump.
Such was life for the world’s most wanted man. The title doesn’t exist. But if anyone could have staked the claim it was Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the Islamic State chief who oversaw a UK-sized empire involved in slavery, torture, lurid video-taped executions and terrorist violence in an estimated 40 countries.
His death left Isis – temporarily – without a leader, and lists of the world’s most-wanted criminals without a compelling number one.
There are, regrettably, no shortage of replacements, the challenge being to rank them. Is a Burmese génocidaire worse than a Sri Lankan terrorist? A French gun-runner more heinous than a Chinese don?
Forbes used to compile a world reprobate ranking in coordination with law enforcement agencies, but appears to have abandoned the enterprise in 2011. The top of its list then was the Mexican drug lord Joaquín Guzmán. “El Chapo”, as he is better known, was arrested three years later, escaped and captured again in 2016.
Another since struck off the list is the Irish-American mobster James “Whitey” Bulger. He was finally caught in late 2011 after his neighbour recognised him from a most-wanted feature on TV and called the police. She pocketed a US$2m reward. Bulger was beaten to death in prison last year.
The rest of the eight-year-old Forbes lineup are otherwise still at large, including the Ugandan warlord Joseph Kony, whose militia had been so whittled down by 2017 that authorities simply stopped looking for him.
The most famous criminal survey is the FBI’s 10 most-wanted fugitives list, which turned 70 this year. The bureau claims 93% of those listed are eventually caught. It recently added its oldest suspect, Eugene Palmer, 83, accused of killing his daughter-in-law.
Osama bin Laden featured on the list until September 2001, when he was shifted to a newly created list of most-wanted terrorists that extends to 28 names and offers lucrative cash rewards.
The al-Qaida leader Ayman al-Zawahiri is worth most at $25m. Bin Laden’s purported heir Hamza (“looks just like his father, tall, very handsome”, Trump observed last week) never had the chance to make the list after it was confirmed in September he had died in a US airstrike.
The FBI’s list of most-wanted cyber criminals has undergone a transformation. The 2010 list featured five names, including a man accused of selling illegal satellite TV connections. Now it extends to nearly 70 people, including dozens in Russian and Chinese military uniforms, and groups with titles such as “Russian Interference in 2016 US Elections”.
“Most wanted” appears to be mostly a matter of perspective. India’s anti-terrorism agency debuted its version of the list in October last year, with a scale befitting the second most-populated country in the world. No less than 258 names were listed, with the highest reward (1.5m rupees, or £16,000) reserved for the Ganapathi, the nom-de-guerre of a former leader of a Maoist insurgency that has raged for more than five decades.
China has also taken to publishing its own list of 100 most-wanted fugitives, the vast majority accused of fraud, theft or bribery as part of a wider anti-corruption crackdown that has become a signature campaign of president Xi Jinping.
In 2019, the idea that “most wanted” should necessarily be followed by “man” has not gone unquestioned. “Crime has no gender,” declared a recent campaign by the European agency for law enforcement cooperation, Europol, to publicise a list of the continent’s most notable female suspects. They include accused forgers, drug smugglers, human traffickers and murderers – the same miserable catalogue of offences suspected of the men of Europe’s Most Wanted, a series in publication since 2016.
The list is a kind of delinquent Eurovision, with EU countries nominating their two most sought-after suspects for the spotlight. No rankings are provided, but the two-person rule is occasionally waived for those being sought with extra urgency. Suspects in the November 2015 Paris attacks were among those to receive that dishonour. The sole addition is Ridouan Taghi, a Dutch-Moroccan national suspected of murder and drug smuggling, whose name was included last month after a lawyer in proceedings against him was gunned down in Amsterdam.
The Nigerian militant became leader of the Boko Haram group in 2009, overseeing a brutal “holy war” wages not just against military or police targets but civilians, including the kidnapping of 276 girls from a secondary school in Chibok, a town in Borno state.
Isis’s newly named successor will immediately find a place on the most-wanted lists of governments around the world.
Born in 1950 to a well-to-do Egyptian family, Zawahiri initially trained as a surgeon before becoming ensconced in the country’s burgeoning radical Islamist movement. Frequently jailed and tortured, he fled to Pakistan, where he aided the mujahideen fighters to repel Soviet invaders, and met a young Saudi financier by the name of Osama bin Laden. The pair fused their organisations to form al-Qaida, and Zawahiri took the helm after Bin Laden’s 2011 death.
Dawood, 63, built a multimillion-dollar empire through extortion, match fixing and drug smuggling, and was named as mastermind of a series of bombings in Mumbai in 1993 that killed more than 250 people. Being a UN-listed global terrorist has not stopped the Indian gangster from living large: he is alleged to still have interests in property across the UK and reportedly attended his nephew’s 2016 wedding via Skype.
Ovidio Guzmán, known as “little Chapo” or “Chapito”, followed his father Joaquín into the family business, becoming one of the most prominent drug traffickers in the Mexican city ofCuliacán. Dozens of heavily armed Mexican police managed to capture Ovidio a few weeks ago, but found themselves outgunned when the cartel leader’s henchmen fanned into upscale neighbourhoods in the city, setting fires and blocking roads until authorities agreed to release their boss. Little Chapo is not regarded as the boss of his father’s organisation, but after his recent escape, Mexican authorities will be especially eager to show they can bring him to justice.
The Chinese-Canadian national dubbed “the most-wanted man in Asia” is accused of leading an international drug syndicated born from an alliance of five triad groups. Police allege his syndicate funnels vast amounts of narcotics including heroin and methamphetamine across the region, from Japan to New Zealand. He is said to be protected by a posse of Thai kickboxers, according to Reuters investigation.
Europe’s most lucrative bounty is reserved for the thief and kidnapper Vassilis Paleokostas. Dubbed “the uncatchable”, the Greek national fled prison in 2006 aboard a helicopter hijacked by his brother. He was arrested again two years later, but escaped the same prison, once again aboard a helicopter, in February 2009. Greece will pay €1m to whoever helps bring him back.
Described as “the last Mohican of the old mafia”, the Sicilian organised crime figure is one of the world’s most wanted fugitives, in hiding since 1993. Denaro, 57, infamously claimed: “I filled a cemetery all by myself”, and has apparently kept up his luxurious lifestyle, thanks to his several bankrollers who, according to prosecutors, include politicians and businessmen.
The persona of one or several hackers who claim to be responsible for penetrating the servers of the Democratic National Committee in 2016 and then leaking documents and emails they found. The US justice department last year indicted 12 Russian nationals for the hack, all of them members of the GRU, a Russian military intelligence agency. It is extremely unlikely the Kremlin will ever hand any of those indicted over to US law enforcement.
Kabuga is wanted by the international criminal tribunal for Rwanda for his alleged role in facilitating that country’s 1994 genocide in which more than 800,000 men, women and children were massacred. Kabuga, now though to be 84, used his radio stations to incite hatred against minority Tutsis and is accused of supplying machetes and hoes used in the killings.
