
# Looking Back At Marv Levy, Who Was Hired By The Bills On This Date In 1986

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Curtis Rush**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/curtisrush/2019/11/03/looking-back-at-marv-levy-who-was-hired-by-the-bills-on-this-date-in-1986/)

Marv Levy is 94 years old and living in Chicago. But he will always be associated with the Buffalo Bills.It’s a good time to look back at Levy now because, on this date, Nov. 3, 1986, Levy was hired by the Buffalo Bills.
Levy went on to change the course of Bills history, which included four straight Super Bowl appearances, though all of them ended in defeat.
Prior to coming to Buffalo, Levy had been a kicking-teams coach with Philadelphia and special-teams coach with the L.A. Rams and Washington Redskins.
He then carved out a successful head-coaching career with the Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian Football League. In his five seasons there, Levy led Montreal to a pair of Grey Cup championships in 1974 and 1977.
Levy returned to the NFL in 1978 as head coach of the Kansas City Chiefs, but after five seasons, he was fired at the end of the strike-shortened 1982 season with a 3-6 record.
After a two-year break from coaching and one season coaching the Chicago Blitz of the USFL, the Bills came calling.
The Bills were struggling under head coach Hank Bullough with a 2-7 record. Many blamed him for misusing quarterback Jim Kelly, who had been signed to a record $7.5 million deal over five years before the start of the season. Despite Kelly’s skills, Bullough decided to make the Bills a running team.
The turning point came in Buffalo’s 34-28 loss to Tampa Bay a day earlier when running back Robb Riddick dropped a pass in the end zone on the final play of the game.
When Levy was hired, the headline in The Buffalo News the following day read, “Levy Era Begins as Bullough Bows Out.” Said Levy at the time: “The Bills are a young team and I’m excited about this.”
Who knew that this hiring would unleash the greatest era in Buffalo Bills history? Levy won his first game the next Sunday when Buffalo beat the Pittsburgh Steelers 16-12, but the Bills were 2-5 under Levy the rest of the way.
That 1986 season the Bills finished at 4-12. But the pieces were in place. They had three future hall of famers in Kelly, wide receiver Andre Reed and defensive end Bruce Smith.
By 1988, the Bills added future hall of fame running back Thurman Thomas, who became part of the “no-huddle offense” that was an innovation at the time, although the Cincinnati Bengals, under coach Sam Wyche, also employed the scheme to some extent.
The hurry-up offense in Buffalo was known as the “K-Gun,” which some thought to be named after Jim Kelly. But in fact, the inspiration behind the name was Bills tight end Keith McKellar, who was so fast the coaches and teammates said that McKellar had “killer speed” and thus the K-Gun name was born.
In 12 years with the Bills, Levy took the team to eight playoff appearances and four Super Bowls in the early 1990s. He was named AFC Coach of the Year three times.
Levy is club’s all-time winningest coach with 112 wins and was enshrined in the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2001.
Apart from his football coaching skills, Levy was known for his knack for finding the right thing to say at the right time, owing to his English literature degree at Coe College in Iowa and his master’s degree in English history at Harvard. Levy’s most popular phrases became known as “Marvisms.” The most famous one is “Where else would you rather be than right here, right now?”
Levy, of course, was only part of the magic of the Bills at that time. General manager Bill Polian was a master at assessing talent. In his great career, Polian brought five future hall of famers to Buffalo in Kelly, Reed, Smith, Thomas and James Lofton.
Polian’s best acquisition was the 1986 signing of Kelly from the USFL three years after Buffalo had drafted him. Levy’s signing on Nov. 3, 1986 sparked a new energy and filled a leadership gap.
It’s far too early to say whether Bills current front office of GM Brandon Beane and head coach Sean McDermott can usher in a new era of excellence, or whether quarterback Josh Allen can become a hall of famer some day.
But on this day, when the Bills are facing the Washington Redskins with a 5-2 record and enjoying their best season in years, the Bills should look back at the Marv Levy hiring for some inspiration.
