
# Airbnb Is Fixing Its Safety Problems After California Shooting Leaves 5 Dead

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Biz Carson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bizcarson/2019/11/06/airbnb-to-verify-all-listings-after-orinda-shooting/?utm_source=twitter_video&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=forbes)

A week after a Halloween party at an Airbnb left five people dead, the home-sharing company is pledging to overhaul its safety measures. The biggest changes: Airbnb plans to verify all 7 million listings on its platform, and it’s introducing a guest guarantee for people to get 100% of their money back if the Airbnb doesn’t meet expectations.It’s also going to launch a 24/7 neighbor hotline, staffed by real people, and manually review high-risk reservations.
Verifying the listings, and offering guest’s money back, will help alleviate one of the biggest complaints about Airbnb: that what you see advertised on the site is not always what you get. The company has run into challenges with hosts faking identities on its platform and advertising units that don’t exist. A reporter for Vice detailed one such scam where a host was running multiple properties in different cities around the country and would move guests into different units than advertised. Airbnb had declined to comment on how it verifies hosts to the reporter, and then the FBI got involved.
Speaking at the New York Times Dealbook conference, Chesky said that Airbnb will use a combination of its own technology and guests to help verify that listings and hosts are accurate, assigning what he called a “confidence score.” Airbnb’s goal is to have all 7 million properties on its platform verified by December 15, 2020.
As part of that process, if guests check into an Airbnb that doesn’t have an accurate listing or host, Airbnb says it will now rebook the guest into a different listing or provide a 100% refund if it can’t. “Most hosts do a great job, but guests need to feel like Airbnb has their back, and we believe this commitment is a necessary step in giving guests peace of mind,” Airbnb said in its blog post.
For the highest-risk bookings, Airbnb says it will now add human review to any reservations flagged as suspicious in its systems, like someone booking a ten-room house in the city that they live in for the same night. Chesky had pledged to prevent “party houses” in the future following the shooting in Orinda, California, on Halloween. A guest had rented a large house for one night, claiming that their relatives needed a place to stay away from the smoke from the northern California wildfire, according to USA Today. It ended up being a cover for a Halloween party that attracted over 100 people and got out of control, leaving five people dead and several shot.
One of the most requested features has also been a neighbor hotline, so people in the community can reach Airbnb if they are concerned about a rental. The company says it will be staffed 24/7 by real people—not just an email program—and it’s working with former police chiefs to develop its response protocols. Airbnb says it will launch the hotline by the end of the year in the U.S. and roll it out globally in 2020.
Chesky acknowledges that it has made “significant” changes to the company’s business model since it launched 11 years ago. The company had built its business on making it easy to list a room for stays, but Chesky says he knows his company has to take a more active role in policing what happens on its platform.
