
# Celtic injury update as Boli Bolingoli and Tom Rogic miss out on Lazio clash

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:55:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark McDougall, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/mark-mcdougall/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/celtic-injury-update-boli-bolingoli-20827450)

Celtic will be without Boli Bolingoli and Tom Rogic for their Europa League tie with Lazio.
The pair didn't travel to Italy for the clash with Leigh Griffiths and Mikey Johnston also left in Glasgow.
Griffiths and Johnston have been missing since August and September respectively while Bolingoli was replaced at half time during the 5-2 win over Hibs on Saturday.
Griffiths trained at Celtic Park this morning but isn't ready to turn out for the Hoops just yet.
Neil Lennon admits his side are looking forward to the clash in Rome but knows how difficult the game is going to be.
Celtic beat Lazio two weeks ago with goals from Ryan Christie and Christopher Jullien coupled with Fraser Forster's stunning late save.
Christie is now likely to be back in the team for this game and Lennon insists they aren't taking anything for granted despite being currently top of the group.
He said: "In the context of the group it's an important game.
"So much quality in both the sides. It's my first time in Rome taking the team so it is very special. It's a game we're very excited and very motivated for.
"Lazio's form is very good, another great win in the San Siro on Sunday, so we're under no illusions about how big the job is as we try and go for a result.
"The players are in great form themselves, they've played very well domestically. We currently top the group, that can change very quickly but we're here to try and get a positive result.
"It sort of takes the shine of it a little bit. When the draw was made this is the game everyone associated with the club was looking forward to.
"Our players have played in intimidating atmospheres so I don't think it'll effect the mindset too much. We're here to play the game and not the occasion."
