
# Downstage Theatre tackles contentious issues in upcoming season

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:00:09+00:00**

Author: **Louis B. Hobson**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/entertainment/theatre/downstage-theatre-tackles-contentious-issues-in-upcoming-season)

Under its new artistic director Clare Preuss, Downstage Theatre is gearing up for a season of socially conscious theatrical events.
“At Downstage, we are always looking at approaching social issues with the goal of inciting fertile conversation, which means we are  constantly searching for pieces with enough fodder for conversation. There must be a complexity to the shows we present because after every performance, we have a talk back,” says Preuss, who sees this approach as a way “to bring the community together.”
Downstage’s first offering Nov. 16 and 17 at the Arts Commons’ Motel Theatre is Safe Site.
“We started working on this show in the summer. It is a collective effort by community members who have different relationships to the safe injection site at the Sheldon Chumir Centre.
“The collaborators include people currently accessing the site, people who have accessed it in the past, people who have never been inside the site but live in the area and nurses and caregivers who work at the site.”
There are nine core members who perform the show, which features songs, poetry, storytelling, and installation art, but they represent the input of more than 30 other people, says Pruess.
“I am truly inspired by the generosity of everyone who contributed to this show and were willing to share their perspectives with courage, honesty, openness, humour and humanity.”
Safe Site will be performed at the Motel Theatre Nov. 16 and 17 at 2 p.m. Admission is pay-what-you-can at the door but you can reserve a seat by going to downstage.ca/safe-site.
Climate change is also a hot-button issue these days and Downstage has created a one-night-only event on Dec. 12 called Lighting the Way.  It’s a collaboration headed by Ashley Bodiquel and Vicki Stroich who have selected eight different short plays by national and international playwrights that approach the topic of climate change through diverse viewpoints. What all of the plays share in common is looking toward the future, not dwelling on the past, says Pruess.
“One of the most exciting aspects of this show will be long-table discussions. There will be a table with 10 chairs in the centre of the stage and people from the audience who have something to say can choose to sit at it. It promises to be so exiting.”
Once again, tickets are pay-what-you-can at the door but you can reserve a seat by going to downstage.ca/lighting the way.
For the 2020 One Yellow Rabbit High Performance Rodeo, Downstage will once again host the 10 Minute Play Festival, which will see six local independent companies create a 10-minute play in 24 hours inspired by a line of text and one prop. This event, now in its 20th year, has always sold out well in advance so it is being moved to the GRAND on Jan. 11. Tickets will go on sale through One Yellow Rabbit in December.
Always a topic of conversation in Calgary is hockey and Preuss is excited that Downstage has secured the world premiere of Sunny Drake’s new comedy, Men Express Their Feelings. This one is a comedy about culture, hockey, relationships and sex as two dads and their hockey-playing sons are sequestered to a hockey rink locker-room to sort out a misunderstanding.
Preuss recalls being at a reading of Drake’s play in Toronto’s Factory Theatre last year where it received a thunderous standing ovation.
“I went up to Sunny after the reading and told him I wanted to direct the world premiere and assured him Calgary was the best possible city for a play about hockey.”
Preuss has cast Nathan Pronyshyn and Richard Young as the dads and Ray Daliwal and Justin Lanouette as their sons.
Men Express Their Feelings, which is a joint production with Hit & Myth Productions, will be presented in the Arts Commons’ Big Secret Theatre in February and March with dates to be announced early in 2020.
Downstage will conclude its 2019/2020 season with The ShakeUp Festival from May 22 to May 30 in the Motel Theatre.
Ellen Close, Arielle Rombough and Jay Northcott will work with emerging artists from the University of Calgary and the Alberta Queer Calendar Project to present eight new plays in various stages of development.
“This sneak peek approach at plays in development is an important part of Downstage’s commitment to help foster new works.”
It will announce ticket sales early in 2020, but people can check out the website at downstage.ca.
