
# From YouFoodz to YouRacistz: Australian couple under fire after mocking Asians during Singapore visit

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:41:49+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Singapore**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/singapore/news/from-youfoodz-to-youracistz-australian-couple-under-fire-after-mocking-asians-during-singapore-visit/)

An Australian couple has found themselves in hot water after videos of them purportedly mocking Asians in Singapore were posted to Instagram. 
Lance Giles, founder of the Australian food delivery business YouFoodz, and his fiancee, Jordana Stott, were in town this week to attend the Global Restaurant Leadership Conference at Marina Bay Sands when they posted two Instagram videos showing what appeared to be Stott ridiculing a couple watching an origami-making video at a restaurant, as well as a group of ladies taking a photo in the infinity pool. 
Following a torrent of criticism over the insulting posts — which had a distinctly anti-Asian bent — the couple deleted the videos from Giles’ Instagram account and apologized for their actions. The Australian supermarket Woolworths, which retails some of YouFoodz’s products, is reportedly investigating the company over the incident. 
“Watching this back makes us feel pretty lousy. What we thought was light-hearted is unpleasant and not funny,” Giles said in a statement to the Daily Mail. 
“Jordana and I would like to assure everyone that this isolated incident does not portray the way we feel or act on a day-to-day basis,” he added. 
In one of the two videos, Stott had appeared to ridicule a couple sitting next to them at a restaurant who were watching an origami-making clip on a phone. In the clip, the camera zooms in on the phone’s screen, and Stott can be heard attempting to impersonate a stereotypical “Chinese” accent (which, by the way, still manages to sound outrageously Australian), saying: “F***ing origami, mate.”
