
# One Of The Most Popular Players In Toronto, Jose Calderon Retires After 14 NBA Seasons

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Curtis Rush**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/curtisrush/2019/11/04/one-of-the-most-popular-players-in-toronto-jose-calderon-retires-after-14-nba-seasons/)

After 14 NBA seasons, Jose Calderon has announced his retirement at age 38. Calderon will join the National Basketball Players Association as special assistant to the union’s executive director, Michele Roberts.It’s a newly created role that allows recent NBA players to serve as season-long consultants for the players union. Calderon will provide advice on union strategy as well as on specific issues related to current NBA players.
Calderon told The Washington Post that he doesn’t miss playing. “I know my weaknesses and I’m always honest with myself,” he said.
The slick, 6’ 3” , 200-pound point guard was known as one of the best free-throw shooters in the game, having set an NBA record for free-throw shooting (98.1%) in 2008–09 with 151 of 154 attempts.
Over 895 NBA games with seven teams, Calderon averaged 8.9 points a game, 5.8 assists and 2.4 rebounds.
His last team was the Detroit Pistons, where he played in only 49 games in 2018-2019 in a diminishing bench role. Calderon will always be remembered for his seven-plus seasons with the Toronto Raptors, with whom he made his professional debut in 2005.
With the Raptors, Calderon was an underrated player who was a fan favorite in Toronto because of his humble demeanor.
With the Raptors, he averaged 10 points and 7.2 assists, along with the record free-throw shooting mark. The native of Spain was traded to the Pistons during the 2013 season, and he also had stints with the Dallas Mavericks, New York Knicks, Los Angeles Lakers, Atlanta Hawks and Cleveland Cavaliers.
With his wife, Ana, Calderon has three boys under the age of 10, and had no plans to continue his playing career abroad, even in Spain, according to the Washington Post’s Golliver.
Calderon was persuaded to come to Toronto in 2005 by former Raptors general manager Rob Babcock after Calderon had spent six seasons in the Spanish pro leagues.
When Calderon first reported to Toronto, he struggled with the language barrier, particularly with processing instructions from the coaching staff and with communicating with his new teammates.
But he had no difficulty understanding the language of the court. Calderon immediately showed off his ball-handling and playmaking skills, but struggled with his shooting as a rookie, particularly from three-point range, where he shot only 16.3% that first season.
The following campaign, in 2006-2007, playing primarily a backup role to T.J. Ford, Calderon proved instrumental in helping the Raptors claim the Atlantic Division title, although the Raptors lost in the first round of the playoffs. Calderon was also part of the Raptors’ second straight march to the playoffs, but they exited again in the first round in 2007-2008.
On January 30, 2013, Calderon was sent to the Detroit Pistons in a three-team trade which sent Tayshaun Prince, Austin Daye and Ed Davis to the Memphis Grizzlies and Rudy Gay and Hamed Haddadi to Toronto. Calderon became the starting point guard for the Pistons.
Then he became a true journeymen player, spending time with the Mavericks, Knicks, Lakers, Hawks and Cavaliers before returning for one final stint with the Pistons in 2018-2019.
Calderon never won an NBA title, but he came close when he was with Cleveland in 2017-18. The Cavaliers were swept 4-0 by the Golden State Warriors in the NBA Finals.
But Calderon enjoyed success on the international stage. Playing for Spain’s national team, Calderon won a FIBA World Cup title in 2006, two Olympic silver medals in 2008 and 2012, as well as a bronze in 2016.
