
# 'And the circus continues...' - Stoke City fans react as Nathan Jones is sacked before West Brom clash

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Kemble**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/and-circus-continues-stoke-city-17187254)

Stoke City are in limbo ahead of their clash with West Bromwich Albion early next week.
The two teams are set to do battle at the bet355 Stadium on Monday night, and ahead of the game, the Potters have axed manager Nathan Jones.
Jones has been sacked after an ill-fated seven months in charge, leaving Stoke just one place off the bottom of the table and four points from safety.
The Welshman arrived at Stoke in January, leaving Luton Town to take over from Gary Rowett.
Stoke are now left searching for a new manager ahead of Monday's clash with the league-leading Baggies with second-place Preston's Alex Neil favourite.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
But what are Stoke fans saying after Jones' sacking? And how do they feel the late decision will impact Monday's game?
Here is a selection of reactions from Twitter.
