
# Mauricio Pochettino says Son Heung-min red card unbelievable despite Andre Gomes injury

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:42:35+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/mauricio-pochettino-insists-son-heung-20804747)

Mauricio Pochettino has declared Martin Atkinson's decision to send Tottenham star Son Heung-min off as "unbelievable."
Forward Son was shown a red card after his tackle left Everton midfielder Andre Gomes with a sickening leg injury.
Gomes needed urgent medical treatment on the pitch before he was stretched to an ambulance and rushed to hospital.
Son originally received a yellow card from referee Atkinson before it was upgraded to a red after the seriousness of the damage to Gomes was revealed.
While there wasn't an official VAR check, he was given guidance in his ear from officials in Stockley Park to show a red card.
The Premier League explained in a statement: "The red card for Son was for endangering the safety of a player which happened as a consequence of his initial challenge."
But Pochettino was not impressed with the verdict to dismiss Son despite his thoughts being with Gomes.
“It is unbelievable he received the red card. if it’s not up to the refs then we are in a big mess, it is going to change the spirit of football," said Pochettino.
"VAR changed the game because it changed the yellow card to red. it is creating a big mess. It was very very tough, completely unfair for Son, complete unfair for Tottenham very difficult to understand this type of situation.
“It was clear it was never the intention of son to create the situation afterwards.
“I don’t know if we will appeal the red card, i don’t know if it is possible, but will it change it, because what we can’t change all that happened after the red card.”
The clash at Goodison Park was littered with VAR controversies, including a penalty decision for Son and a hand ball in the box from Dele Alli, which led to a lengthy check, at the other end.
Marco Silva said: "Really tough for us to talk about what has happened on the pitch.
"What I want to tell you, all of us love football and we play for our fans and I am 100% sure they didn’t like what they saw this afternoon.
"In the second half, there are so many moments to stop the game.
"The penalty from Dele Alli, it was three minutes to decide. They have to be more clear.
"They saw their team last week lost the game one penalty coming from nowhere and this afternoon is completely the opposite. It was not just the Dele Alli situation. I saw all the moments and I have opinions on all of them. How it is possible three minutes to decide?
"Me, the club, we respect the referees, tough job, and we respect the VAR as well. I know they want the best but it is up to them to decide." 
