
# Mothercare: Hundreds of jobs at risk as firm confirms it will go into administration

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:20:33+00:00**

Author: **James Andrews, http://www.facebook.com/jameswritesmoney/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/breaking-mothercare-hundreds-jobs-risk-20806590)

Mothercare has announced plans to put its UK retail business, which has 79 stores, into administration, putting hundreds of jobs at risk.
The firm's UK business has been unprofitable for more than a decade, which sparked a mass of closures last year.
The UK franchise run its stores and website independent of Mothercares in other parts of the world.
In a statement this morning, Mothercare said: "Mothercare announces that Notices of Intent to appoint administrators to the Company's active trading subsidiary, Mothercare UK Limited and Mothercare Business Services Limited, which provides certain services to Mothercare UK, are being filed with the Court today. 
"It is emphasised that the Company and its other subsidiaries are not covered by these notices of intent. The Group, Mothercare UK and MBS will be free to continue to trade in the normal course of business."
The struggling retailer, which fell to a £36.3million loss last year under a controversial company voluntary arrangement (CVA), has been trying to sell its UK arm for a while.
In January, it warned of a "challenging period" after even digital sales at the retailer dropped 16.3% .
 
It blamed lower iPad sales led by its store closure programme as well as a smaller 'Toy offer' with less discounting.
By the end of March 2019, the chain's business store count had fallen from 137 in May 2018 to 79.
Last month it called in restructuring experts from accountancy giant KPMG.
"Since May 2018, we have undertaken a root and branch review of the Group and Mothercare UK within it, including a number of discussions over the summer with potential partners regarding our UK Retail business," Mothercare said today.
"Through this process, it has become clear that the UK Retail operations of the Group, which today includes 79 stores, are not capable of returning to a level of structural profitability and returns that are sustainable for the Group as it currently stands and/or attractive enough for a third party partner to operate on an arm's length basis. Furthermore, the Company is unable to continue to satisfy the ongoing cash needs of Mothercare UK.
"These notices of intent to appoint administrators in respect of Mothercare UK and MBS are a necessary step in the restructuring and refinancing of the Group. Plans are well advanced and being finalised for execution imminently. A further announcement will be made in due course."
Rebecca Long Bailey MP, Labour’s Shadow Business and Energy Secretary, said: “Mothercare disappearing from our high streets would be a huge loss to the new parents who rely on it and the thousands of workers whose jobs are at risk.
“The government must urgently meet with unions and the company to safeguard these jobs.
“Under the Conservatives, our high streets continue to suffer. They are at the heart of our communities and desperately need saving.
“Labour’s five point plan will rejuvenate Britain’s town centres and protect jobs.”
Put simply - Mothercare spent too much money at exactly the wrong time, then got into an argument with itself, the firm revealed in May.
Back in 2014 Mothercare spent a third of it's cash in an aggressive plan to modernise stores and update its websites.
In chairman Clive Whiley's words, it was playing "catch-up". There was just one problem.
"It did so without the knowledge that the UK would see an unprecedented slow down," he added.
That left it very low on cash when it needed to plunder its reserves most - and that led to more problems and more expenses.
The executives then fell out with each other, meaning the owners lost faith in them, and a lot more money was spent on consultants as a result of the lack of trust.
As Whiley put it: "The difficult situation was further fuelled by a fracture in the relationship between the ‎non-executive and operating executives, a break-down in trust with key shareholders and the appointment of an array of increasingly expensive professional advisers."
About £6million was spend on advisers alone, along with another £4million from a new set of advisers.
Eventually they stopped spending, changed some key executives and decided it was easier to just talk to each other.
"Had the recast board not acted decisively in curtailing professional costs in April 2018 and, more importantly, bridged the disconnect between our relationship banks and our equity providers, these costs alone could have rendered the business unsalvageable," Whiley said.
Mothercare split itself in three. The first part designs and finds products for stores to sell. These are then provided to stores both in the UK and across the world.
The second part is the Mothercare UK franchise. That means the UK run its stores and website independent of Mothercares in other parts of the world.
That way Mothercare UK ranges will be added to with products from the likes of Britax, Silvercross, Joie and Bugaboo.
The third part of the business - Mothercare Business Services - includes finance, HR, property and IT. It's job? Improve efficiency and service levels.
It is the second part - the Mothercare UK franchise -that is now to be put in administration.
