
# US economy added 128k jobs in October, beating estimates

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:34:39+00:00**

Author: **Melissa Quinn**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/us-economy-added-128k-jobs-in-october)

The U.S. economy added 128,000 jobs in October, and the unemployment rate ticked up to 3.6%, according to new data released Friday, overcoming the drag from a monthlong GM strike that ended last week
The monthly employment report from the Labor Department far exceeded expectations from forecasters, who predicted 75,000 jobs would be created in October, a sharp dip from 136,000 in September. Unemployment was expected to increase slightly to 3.6% from 3.5% last month, when the country saw a 50-year low.
The unemployment rate for African-Americans reached a new record low of 5.4%. Hourly wages rose by 6 cents in October and grew by 3% over the past 12 months. In all, more than 158.5 million Americans are employed.
The strike at GM was projected to cast a shadow on the monthly employment report, as more than 47,000 workers were not working last month. The return of the United Auto Workers members to work after the strike's end last week will likely boost the November employment numbers.
The strike caused employment in auto manufacturing to drop by nearly 42,000.
President Trump heralded the employment gains, proclaiming "USA ROCKS!"
"Wow, a blowout JOBS number just out, adjusted for revisions and the General Motors strike, 303,000. This is far greater than expectations," the president tweeted.
