
# Box Office: ‘Terminator’ Bombs Again As ‘Dark Fate’ Nabs Apocalyptic $10.6 Million Friday

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Mendelson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/scottmendelson/2019/11/02/box-office-james-cameron-and-tim-millers-terminator-dark-fate-starring-linda-hamilton-and-arnold-schwarzenegger-bombs-with-apocalyptic-11-million-friday/)

Even with James Cameron and Linda Hamilton reuniting with Arnold Schwarzenegger in an R-rated sequel which stole from the Star Wars: The Force Awakens playbook, Terminator: Dark Fate once again failed to avoid Judgment Day because audiences just don’t care about the Terminator as a brand, an IP or a franchise.Terminator: Dark Fate faced judgement day once again yesterday, earning just $10.6 million on Friday. The sci-fi sequel, directed by Tim Miller, produced by James Cameron, and starring franchise vets Linda Hamilton and Arnold Schwarzenegger alongside newbies Mackenzie Davis, Natalia Reyes and Gabriel Luna, was the third attempt to revive the Terminator series in a decade. McG’s Terminator: Salvation, a future war sequel starring Christian Bale, earned just $125 million domestic and $375 million on a $200 million budget. Alan Taylor’s Terminator: Genysis, a time-twisting retcon that paired Schwarzenegger with Emilia Clarke and Jai Courtney, earned $89 million domestic and $441 million worldwide on a $155 million budget, including $113 million in China. Tim Miller’s Terminator: Dark Fate, following the Star Wars: The Force Awakens playbook, is the third strike for the sci-fi series that won’t die and can’t live.
Terminator has become a metaphor for itself, with filmmakers trying different things only to face the same outcome: Judgment Day is inevitable. Hollywood may yet figure out that audiences who aren’t die-hard sci-fi geeks have little interest in additional Terminator movies. Making a “future war” sequel with Christian Bale as John Connor didn’t do it. Making a time-twisting retcon, presumably modeled after Star Trek, didn’t do it. Bringing back the old gang for a passing-the-torch sequel like Star Wars: The Force Awakens didn’t do it. The pitches change, the hooks differ, but the result is always the same. Just because folks liked The Terminator in 1984 and lost their minds over Terminator 2: Judgment Day in 1991 does not mean they have any interest in additional Terminator movies. Just because something was once popular doesn’t mean audiences care for a new iteration.
The sheer hubris, to try to convince audiences three times in a row to want something that they clearly don’t want, at great expense, is frankly appalling. The “this time folks will bite” attitude is what has left theatrical moviegoing in grave peril as streaming and television networks have filled the gap for something beyond cover records of yesterday’s former glories. It is one thing to try a reboot, strike out and move on. It is another thing to pull solid grosses but at too high a cost, like Sony’s Amazing Spider-Man, and then team with a rival and keep the budget in check for the second reboot. It is another entirely to take the same dead franchise and presume that the same audiences who said “No, thank you” not once but twice will somehow magically embrace it on the third try.
Terminator: Dark Fate should earn a $26.7 million opening weekend, or less than the $29 million Fri-Sun debut (in a $42 million Thurs -Mon launch) of Alita: Battle Angel. Depending on legs, it’ll open over/under the $27 million Fri-Sun launch (of a $44 million Wed-Sun debut) of Terminator: Genisys. Yes, that’s between the $33 million debut of Dark Phoenix and the $25 million launch of the Fantastic Four reboots.  Those unrequested brand exploitations also seemed to make all the wrong choices leading up to release. While X-Men: Apocalypse earned $122 million in China, Dark Phoenix was rejected with just $65 million. Sure enough, the $113 million earned by Terminator: Genisys (from a $26 million opening day at the end of a blackout period) meant diddly, as Dark Fate is heading toward $24 million opening weekend and under-$55 million total in China after a $9.45 million Friday.
Terminator: Dark Fate is being distributed by Paramount domestically and Fox/Disney overseas (aside from China, where Tencent is distributing). It would be cruelly ironic if it bombed in North America while scoring overseas, giving Disney an un-needed victory. Even if using the Force Awakens playbook (a diverse/inclusive new cast with the franchise stars as mentors in a loose remake of the first flick) was the right call, it was two movies too late. After two lousy Terminator movies (following the decent Terminator: Rise of the Machines, which earned $433 million worldwide in 2003 but wasn’t intended to relaunch the franchise), even a better offering wasn’t enough to entice audiences since they just didn’t care about this franchise. Terminator: Dark Fate is bombing in North America because audiences didn’t want to see it. When audiences don’t care, all the “fixes” in the world can’t prevent Judgment Day.
The notion of a Harriet Tubman biopic has been a measuring stick of sorts for years and years, with the absence thereof used as a prime example of Hollywood not valuing historically interesting or heroic black stories. That’s probably true, but now we have a Harriet Tubman biopic, from a black female filmmaker (Kasi Lemmons) no less. Yes, it’s a bit formulaic, borrowing the structure of Captain America: The First Avenger, but it’s a solid biopic/superhero origin story hybrid. Cynthia Erivo is terrific and the film just works exactly as intended. Sometimes a good movie is a good movie. Anyway, I’m happy to note that audiences seem to be showing up, with the film netting a $3.9 million Friday for a likely $10.6 million weekend. That’s not a barnburner but Focus Features will likely call it a measured win.
Warner Bros. released writer/director/producer/star Edward Norton’s Motherless Brooklyn, a long-gestating passion project, into 1,342 theaters. The $26 million adaptation of Jonathan Lethem’s novel stars Norton as a private investigator with Tourette’s trying to solve his mentor’s murder in the 1950s. Even with okay (but not superlative) reviews and a cast including Bruce Willis, Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Alec Baldwin and Willem Dafoe, this is just the latest Warner Bros. drama to essentially call the bluff of moviegoers who claim to want sophisticated, star-driven, adult-skewing studio programmers. After a $1.055 million Friday, it’ll be lucky to nab $3 million this weekend, joining the honored dead (Blinded by the Light, The Kitchen, The Sun is Also A Star and The Goldfinch) as all parties hope for more robust results for Doctor Sleep next weekend.
Finally, we have Entertainment Studios’ animated flick Artic Dogs. The Jeremy Renner toon debuted yesterday with little in the way of hype or buzz, so it’s no shock that the $50 million (!) animated feature will struggle to gross even $2.5 million this weekend. The other newbie is the theatrical release, in eight theaters in New York and LA, of Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman. The 3.5-hour mob drama, starring Robert De Niro, Al Pacino and Joe Pesci has earned rave reviews and strong buzz heading into the weekend. That said, it’s a Netflix film, due to debut on the streaming service on November 27, so even if it sets a record for per-theater averages for movies opening in more than six theaters (Precious earned $1.8 million in 18 theaters on this very weekend in 2009), we may never know.
