
# Cristiano Ronaldo robbed of the Ballon d'Or by 'Football Mafia', claims star's mother

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:32:10+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/cristiano-ronaldo-robbed-ballon-dor-20794393)

Cristiano Ronaldo should have won more individual honours - but has been held back by the ‘football mafia’.
That’s the sensational claim made by the Portugal and Juventus star’s mother, Dolores Aveiro.
Ronaldo, 34, is one of the most decorated players of all-time, after 15 years at the top of the European game, with Manchester United , Real Madrid and the Bianconeri.
He has won the Ballon d’Or a record five-times, a figure rivalled by only Barcelona superstar Lionel Messi.
Last year, the pair’s decade-long duopoly was broken up by Luka Modric, after his role in Real Madrid's third successive Champions League and Croatia’s run to the World Cup final.
And Ronaldo this year didn’t attend FIFA’s The Best Awards, as Messi took the Player of the Year crown and the Portuguese finished behind runner up Virgil van Dijk in the voting.
Now Ronaldo’s mother has stated her belief that her son does not get the recognition he deserves.
"There is a mafia. That's the right word to define it. Yes, there is a mafia in football," she told the Portuguese press.
"If there wasn’t a football mafia, my son would have more [individual] international trophies. If you see everything that happened, you will realise that it is the mafia.
"If he was Spanish or English they would not do what they did to him. But since he's Portuguese and from Madeira... well, this happens.”
Ronaldo is again in the running for the Ballon d’Or this year, with the award due to be dished out in December.
Van Dijk, his Liverpool teammates Sadio Mane and Mohamed Salah, and again Messi, are all contenders for the award, along with Ronaldo.
And his mother insists he should take the award again.
"I don't know if he will get it, but I am confident. I think he deserves it if we analyse what he did during the season."
