
# Edinburgh Christmas Market 'won't open till it's safe' after worrying scaffolding picture

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:54:33+00:00**

Author: **Dailyrecord.co.uk**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/edinburgh-christmas-market-wont-open-20818992)

Edinburgh's world famous Christmas Market will not open until it's deemed safe, council officials confirmed.
Worrying footage of wonky scaffolding balancing on a slope in Princes Street Gardens sparked outcry on Tuesday.
Corstophine Climate Action shared the concerning snap on Twitter.
The post read: "Apparently no planning application or safety inspection - Christmas Market platform.
"Will you risk it?"
Last month, Edinburgh Live told how the company behind the Capital’s Christmas market was handed a two-year contract extension, without councillors being shown the design of a controversial steel platform structure yet to receive planning permission.
It was signed off by the culture convener and his deputy.
Edinburgh City Council have since launched an investigation into whether correct processes were followed.
Droves of punters from all over the world head to the Christmas Market over the festive season, generating millions for the local economy.
The platform needs to be sturdy enough to hold thousands of people at the one time, with over 100,000 visitors per day.
The 2019 market is set to open on November 16.
 
Labour councillor Gordon Munro told BBC News: "I would like assurances that this work, that has obviously been rigorous, in taking four months to be undertaken, also takes into account the figures that are being talked about - up to 124,000 people accessing the Christmas market.
"Is that structure able to cope with that load-bearing should those numbers be replicated? Does it take into account the weight of the goods that will be there as well? We need reassurances in that regard."
A City of Edinburgh Council spokesperson said: "The latest stage is that a building warrant application has been submitted and is currently being assessed.
"The application includes an SER certificate from an approved certifier of design of building structures, which demonstrates compliance with the regulations."
 
A spokeswoman from Underbelly, the firm behind the market, said: "The structure in East Princes Street Gardens is safe.
"The design has been signed off and certified by independent engineers who have issued an SER certificate, and it has also been agreed by the council's engineers.
"It has been designed in accordance with the appropriate codes to comfortably accommodate the capacities expected by Edinburgh's Christmas through its busiest periods and in all weathers.
"The installation is also subject to a building warrant and is therefore compliant with the Building (Scotland) Regulations."
