
# Adam Lallana hails special power Liverpool have for scoring last-gasp goals

Published at: **2019-11-04T02:25:51+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/adam-lallana-hails-special-power-20805949)

Adam Lallana believes Liverpool have developed a feeling “like a sixth sense” that fuels their ability to secure last-gasp victories.
Sadio Mane was the hero on Saturday as the Reds' late show at Aston Villa maintained their title charge.
The forward's stoppage-time header earned a thrilling 2-1 win just as Jurgen Klopp's side looked like losing their unbeaten Premier League record.
Andrew Robertson had equalised with just three minutes left to cancel out Trezeguet's first-half opener for the hosts.
That result came after another last-gasp goal ultimately helped them secure a Carabao Cup victory over Arsenal - and Lallana has hailed their never-say-die attitude.
The former Southampton star said: "We keep getting late goals. Another two today and one in midweek.
"Then there was my goal at Manchester United a couple of weeks ago. The resilience and character is there in abundance.
"It’s almost like a sixth sense. We knew at half-time that if we could get one goal it could lead to another.
"We got it late but we still had time and, with the deliveries and set-pieces we’ve got in our team, we use it to our advantage. It’s such a weapon.
"Teams worry when it’s late. Even though we weren’t at our best in the first half we were saved by that never-say-die ­approach.
"Two goals in the last five minutes. We’ve just got that momentum. We’re just on that path at the minute."
The victory maintained Liverpool's unbeaten start to the season and kept them six points clear of Manchester City at the top.
