
# Red Flags Abound At Bankrupt Rhode Island St. Joseph Health Services Church Pension

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Edward Siedle**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/edwardsiedle/2019/11/06/red-flags-abound-at-bankrupt-rhode-island-st-joseph-health-services-church-pension/)

"I See Dead People" is a memorable quote whispered by the child protagonist from the 1999 supernatural horror film, The Sixth Sense.
I don’t see dead people.
But I do see dead pensions. And I see things about dead pensions that other people do not see.  
And what I see is scary.
I see untimely deaths that should never have happened and anguished survivors grieving their losses.   
Gross mismanagement, conflicts of interest, hidden and excessive fees, scamming, looting—all are commonplace—if you know where to look.
In 2017, the St. Joseph Health Services of Rhode Island pension fund filed for bankruptcy, devastating the retirement plans of nearly 3,800 former and existing workers whose benefits will likely be dramatically cut.
The hospital operating company, which throughout its history had been affiliated with the Catholic Church, wrote in its 2017 receivership request that the pension fund is "unsustainable" and absent any judicial intervention, "will be terminated and its funds distributed in a manner that will result in current plan beneficiaries receiving about 60% of their accrued benefits and all others receiving nothing."
With an average monthly payout of $425, a cut of 40% of benefits will be brutal. Participants will be left with barely enough to go out to dinner a few times a month. So much for the retirement security they were promised.
As an affiliate of the Catholic Church, the Plan qualified as a “church plan” exempt from the provisions of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). The receiver for the Plan is seeking to have the church plan reclassified and administered as if it had been covered by ERISA and to have the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. assume responsibility for it.
The receiver admitted in an interview with Pensions&Investments earlier this year, "However, there can be no assurance that PBGC will provide any coverage for pension fund shortfalls as a result of underfunding prior to (the receivership) or at all."
"I have no idea whether this is going to help the plan," he said. "At the very least, I thought it was not only appropriate because it should have never been a church plan, but it certainly doesn't hurt to try to make the (ERISA) election."
Based upon over a decade of experience with PBGC, I can assure you that having PBGC assume responsibility for your pension is hardly a panacea, or even likely to provide much relief.  
On the other hand (and without giving too much away), carefully reviewing the management of your pension over the decades could be enlightening and productive. I see lots of “red flags.”
As I said last week with respect to the coal miners’ imperiled pension fund, every pension death deserves an autopsy.  Workers and retirees deserve answers about what caused their loss and once the PBGC takes over the plan, it will be too late. The PBGC has consistently demonstrated it has no interest in knowing what causes pensions—your pension—to fail.   
After decades of trusting promises made would be promises kept, St. Joe participants should demand a full review of the causes of their pension’s collapse. Any parties responsible for contributing to the pension’s demise should be held accountable.
Doing nothing—sitting back, is not an option. And neither is simply walking away without answers.

        I See Dead PeopleKnow Your Meme
      
