
# Isle of Wight man 'murdered over festering dispute’

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:20:40+00:00**

Author: **Steven Morris**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2019/nov/04/isle-of-wight-man-murdered-over-festering-dispute)


        Jonathan Stasiuk attacked Gerry White with a chainsaw and strangled him, jury told
      
Two trustees of a communal garden on the Isle of Wight became embroiled in a “festering dispute” before one murdered the other by attacking him with a chainsaw and strangling him, a jury has been told.
The relationship between publican Gerry White, 73, and chef Jonathan Stasiuk, 60, turned sour after disagreements over money, the dumping of rubbish and plants, and a delivery of logs, the court heard.
In the days before White’s death on 27 May, Stasiuk allegedly messaged friends saying: “Tomorrow I go to war”, and even referenced using a chainsaw.
Southampton crown court heard on Monday that at around 4.30pm at Lake Community Gardens in the village of Lake on the Isle of Wight the pair had a confrontation.
After allegedly attacking White with the chainsaw, which is understood to have come from the garden’s clubhouse, Stasiuk strangled and smothered him, screaming: “Die bastard, die”, the jury heard.
Minutes later he allegedly confessed to murdering White to a 999 operator, the court was told.
Stasiuk, who worked for White’s pubs, helped look after the 16-acre “wellness” garden.
Matthew Jewell QC, prosecuting, said Stasiuk had a list of complaints against White. “Stasiuk harboured a growing sense of grievance and formed a strong belief in his position,” he said. “Their relationship began to go sour for a number of reasons.
“There was an accusation made against Stasiuk’s partner about £25 transport costs owed to her. There was a dispute about logs being delivered to Mr White’s pubs that were apparently damp, there was an issue about plants. Rubbish appeared on the site and it appeared to Stasiuk that Mr White was using it as some kind of dumping ground.”
After the attack, Stasiuk called the police and told the operator: “I’ve just murdered someone”, the court heard.
Jewell said: “He told police where to find his body and said the murder happened 20 minutes earlier. He gave a full account over six interviews and told police officers he attacked Mr White with a chainsaw and then by strangling and smothering him until he believed he was dead.
“Stasiuk explained it was the result of a growing and festering dispute that had led to his actions on that day. None of these grievances justify what Stasiuk did on that day to Mr White.”
Pathologist Dr Basil Purdue said White suffered severe injuries to his neck as a result of the strangulation as well as cuts to his legs.
Jurors were told Stasiuk denies murder but admits manslaughter on grounds of diminished responsibility.
The trial continues.
