
# How we live together: the sofa-surfers

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:30:16+00:00**

Author: **Abby Young-Powell**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2019/nov/02/how-we-live-together-sofa-surfers)


        I’ve developed a good instinct. If I sense someone just wants a free place to stay, I’m not interested
      
I’ve been sofa-surfing – both hosting and staying with other people – for seven years and it’s a big part of my life. I was moving to London from Paris and needed somewhere to stay for a few days before I moved into my own place; I found Hannah through couchsurfing.com.
I get excited when looking for a host because I want to discover a new person and be outside my comfort zone. But I’m nervous, too, because you never know if the host will appreciate you. I’ve only had good experiences, but it still takes energy and courage.
Hannah was easy-going and welcoming, so my fears disappeared. Her flat is small – she joked that I didn’t need to be shown around as I could see it all at once – but it is comfortable.
I brought cheese with me from France and we spoke in French and English. I put a mattress on the floor and made myself at home.
I’ve been sofa-surfing, as a guest and host, for seven years, too. When you sign up, you write what you expect from guests and what you offer. It’s free accommodation, but that’s not the point – it’s a cultural exchange where people make friends, and it’s a good way to meet locals if you’re travelling and need somewhere to stay for a few days.
I’ve developed a good instinct. If I sense someone just wants a free place to stay, I’m not interested. Justyna and I clicked straight away. She was considerate, polite and good company.
Letting someone into your home takes a fair amount of effort and openness. I’ve had a few dodgy experiences, but I’ve never felt physically unsafe. Most times, it’s all positive.
• If you have a story to tell about who you live with, fill in this form and tell us a little about your set-up.
