
# Shale gas fracking wasted ‘millions of taxpayers’ cash’, say scientists

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:13:09+00:00**

Author: **Robin McKie**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2019/nov/03/fracking-shale-gas-scientists-tories-earthquake)


        Scientists say research on carbon capture was always better environmental option
      
Ministers have been condemned for wasting millions of pounds of taxpayers’ money in a failed attempt to introduce fracking to the UK. The bid also cost the nation a decade of effort that should have been expended on other, more environmentally friendly energy projects, scientists and activists claimed yesterday.
The criticisms were made in the wake of the government’s decision on Friday to impose a moratorium on fracking in the UK. A review published by the Oil and Gas Authority concluded it was impossible to predict the likelihood or scale of earthquakes triggered by fracking.
The moratorium leaves the government with an option to restart fracking in future years. However, many critics believe the technology is not suitable for the UK.
“Fracking is utterly incompatible with our aims of ending the burning of fossil fuels in this country in a couple of decades,” said geologist Professor Stuart Haszeldine, of Edinburgh University. “Pursuing the technology of fracking while embracing the concept of having a carbon-free society is an example of national schizophrenia. It has wasted millions of pounds of taxpayers’ money. It has also wasted a decade when we should have been pursuing other goals.”
One such aim should have been the development of the technology of carbon capture and storage which would involve carbon dioxide being captured, liquefied and stored underground in old mines or depleted oil reservoirs, added Haszeldine. “We have lost significant leads in developing this technology over the past decade when we should have been pursuing them energetically. Instead we have wasted our time on fracking projects.”
This point was backed by Professor Jon Gluyas, director of the Durham Energy Institute at Durham University. “The government ban on fracking is a neat way of ignoring the now inescapable truth that the projected shale gas potential for the UK is tiny at best. We have, though, as a nation wasted a decade hoping for more gas to heat our homes rather than installing ultra-low carbon geothermal heating like that used in much of Europe.”
Fracking, also known as hydraulic fracturing, involves pumping water, chemicals and sand underground at high pressure to fracture shale rock and release trapped oil and gas. However, the process can also trigger earthquakes, and although fracking was enthusiastically endorsed by Tory politicians when plans for erecting drills were first made 10 years ago their introduction has been hindered by intense local opposition. To date only three wells have attempted to frack for oil and gas in the UK.
Earlier this year one of these wells triggered a tremor that measured 250 times the level permitted by regulations. A subsequent review concluded that it was impossible to predict the probability or scale of earthquakes triggered by fracking. Business secretary Andrea Leadsom yesterday announced she was imposing a moratorium. The decision brings England into line with the rest of the UK. Fracking in Scotland was suspended in 2013. The Welsh government imposed a moratorium in 2015, while there is a planning presumption against fracking in Northern Ireland.
However, Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn yesterday dismissed the move as an election stunt. “I think it’s what’s called euphemistically a bit of greenwash,” he said. “I think it sounds like fracking would come back on the 13th of December, if they [the Conservatives] were elected back into office. “We’re quite clear, we will end fracking. We think it’s unnecessary, we think it’s pollutive of ground water systems, and is actually dangerous and has caused serious earth tremors.”
