
# India women’s football team handed 3-0 loss by Vietnam in friendly

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:56:58+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/03/india-womens-football-team-handed-3-0-loss-by-vietnam-in-friendly?utm_medium=rss)


        The India women's football team registered a 3-0 loss in its first of the two international friendly against hosts Vietnam at the VYFTC Ground in Hanoi, on Sunday. After conceding the first goal early, goalkeeper Aditi Chauhan kept India in the match before Vietnam scored twice after 80th minute.
      
The Indian women's national football team registered a 3-0 loss in its first of the two international friendly against hosts Vietnam at the VYFTC Ground in Hanoi, on Sunday. Thi Nhung (8'), Thi Van (82'), and Thi Thuy Hang (89') scored a goal apiece for Vietnam to secure a comfortable win. 
In the 12th minute, India goalkeeper Aditi Chauhan pulled off a terrific save to deny Vietnam from doubling the lead after the visitors conceded an early goal. At the stroke of the half-hour mark, India's Bala Devi unleashed a superb shot from the centre only to see it missing the target by a whisker.
Coach Maymol Rocky chose to make early changes to the team by bringing in Daya, who replaced Sumitra in the 32nd minute. Aditi was unarguably at the top of her game, as she kept India in the fight till the 80th minute before Vietnam struck twice in quick succession to seal the tie. Thi Van tucked in the hosts’ second goal before Hang converted from a corner-kick with a minute of regulation time left on the clock. 
The two sides will face-off once again in their second friendly on Wednesday.
