
# ‘A proposal of €15million' - The latest on Arsenal and Wolves transfer 'target'

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:37:51+00:00**

Author: **Alex Dicken, https://www.facebook.com/alexdickenjournalist/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/dejan-kulusevski-wolves-transfer-news-17197857)

Swedish midfielder Dejan Kulusevski has been linked with a transfer to Wolverhampton Wanderers.
The 19-year-old, who plays his club football for Serie A side Atalanta, has been linked with a host of Premier League clubs including Manchester City and Arsenal.
However, according to TMW (via Sport Witness), Wolves have now joined the race for Kulusevski with boss Nuno Espirito Santo ready to sanction a £13million offer.
This is your round up of all things Wolves; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Wolves throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WWFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Wolves reporter Alex Dicken on Twitter, and his email address is Alex.Dicken@reachplc.com
 
The report claims ‘a proposal of €15million (£13m) will be sent’, but Atalanta are said to want closer to €25million (£21.6m) for the midfielder.
Kulusevski’s agent, Stefano Sem, recently discussed the interest in the Sweden under-21 international.
“For elegance I don’t name names, I only say that they were both Italian and foreign teams," he said.
“He’s a Swedish international, he’s a player who has a more international market than other guys even for a basic mentality and culture discourse.
 
"It’s clear that he’s a player that even at the national team, when he plays, it’s easier to follow than his other teammates who play for the Italian national team.
“The Italians have the ambition to play for Azzurri and maybe get in a big Italian club, a foreigner wants the top: if the top is in Italy good, if it’s abroad he goes abroad.”
