
# The Latest: Voters approve tax deduction for some veterans

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/6/the-latest-polls-closed-in-new-jerseys-assembly-el/)

TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - The Latest on New Jersey’s election (all times local):
9:55 p.m.
New Jersey voters agreed to a ballot question to let veterans living in retirement communities get a $250 property tax deduction.
The question was the only statewide referendum on Tuesday’s ballot.
Legislative estimates show the deduction would carry a cost to taxpayers of $350,000 to $550,000 annually. That’s just a small fraction of the state’s roughly $39 billion budget.
It’s unclear, though, exactly how many beneficiaries the expanded deduction would affect.
Also on the ballot are all 80 of the Democrat-led General Assembly seats, and one state Senate election, where voters are picking Democrat Rep. Jeff Van Drew’s successor.
8 p.m.
Polls in New Jersey’s election to select all 80 General Assembly members have closed.
All the seats in the Democrat-controlled Assembly were atop the ballot for New Jersey voters in Tuesday’s election.
There were also local races and a statewide ballot question to decide if veterans residing in retirement communities should get a $250 property tax deduction.
There was also a single state Senate seat on the ticket in southern New Jersey’s 1st District to fill the seat vacated when Democrat Jeff Van Drew went to Congress.
County offices have been accepting mail-in ballots for weeks, though.
State data show roughly 600,000 mail-in ballots have been sent. The last time the Assembly topped the ballot in 2015, about 114,000 or nearly 10% of ballots cast were through the mail.
5:25 a.m.
Polls open at 6 a.m. in New Jersey’s elections.
At the top of the ballot Tuesday are all 80 of the seats in the Democrat-led General Assembly.
A number of local races and a statewide ballot question on whether veterans living in retirement communities should get a $250 property tax deduction are also on the ballot.
Voters in the 1st District are also electing a successor to fill Rep. Jeff Van Drew’s state Senate seat since he was elected to Congress.
Polls are open until 8 p.m. County offices have been accepting mail-in ballots for weeks, though.
State data show roughly 600,000 mail-in ballots have been sent. The last time the Assembly topped the ballot in 2015, about 114,000 or nearly 10% of ballots cast were through the mail.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
