
# From Monologue To Dialogue: Towards Playable Cities

Published at: **2019-11-04T06:36:45+00:00**

Author: **Dr Steven Conway**

Original: [Kotaku Australia](https://www.kotaku.com.au/2019/11/from-monologue-to-dialogue-towards-playable-cities/)

A cityscape is made of stubborn material: concrete, steel, granite, tarmac. It is not malleable or modifiable without enormous financial and political resources. It is a monologue often performed by extremely wealthy and powerful entities. A consequence is such spaces can often feel oppressive and conformist, quashing any impulse for creativity or expression.
In contrast, play is a dialogue, an exchange between things, whether they take the form of people, ideas, or an environment. Within this dialogue lays a capacity for change, for (re)creation, for offering new perceptions of a world. Such experiences have measurably positive impacts upon people’s physical and mental health.
Play’s natural companions are open spaces in which folk can come together, filled with rich objects generative of novel experiences. This is the traditional role of parks, sports fields, and playgrounds, historically taking up acres of land within a community. Yet within the city, space is measured and costed by the foot, not the acre. The desire for capital trumps the need for play within such domains.
We thus find ourselves confronted with a fundamental design problem: how can we provide play when the space, literally and figuratively, does not afford it? How do we open up the city for dialogue? We have to get smart with play.
