
# Benefits of up to Rs 70,000 available on Toyota Fortuner, Innova Crysta, Glanza

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jaiveer Mehra**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/benefits-of-up-to-rs-70000-available-on-toyota-fortuner-innova-crysta-glanza-414769)

For November 2019, Toyota dealers are offering benefits ranging from Rs 40,000 to Rs 70,000 on select models in their line-up.
During the last few months, a few Toyota dealers known to us had offered substantial discounts of up to Rs 2.2 lakh on select models available at their dealerships. However, these dealers are now offering substantially lesser discounts of up to Rs 70,000 only for the month of November 2019.
Save up to Rs 70,000The second-gen Fortuner continues to remain popular amongst buyers in the segment where it rivals the Ford Endeavour, Mahindra Alturas and Isuzu MU-X. Dealers are offering benefits of up to Rs 70,000 – including cash discounts and exchange benefits – on their large SUV, for the month of November. Buyers can choose between a 2.7-litre petrol and a 2.8-litre diesel engine, paired with either a manual or an automatic gearbox option. Furthermore, the diesel also gets the option of four-wheel drive.
Save up to Rs 55,000When Toyota finally replaced its long-standing Innova with the Innova Crysta, it pushed its popular MPV into a higher segment, along with making it more upmarket than before. And the MPV still continues to remain a popular option amongst both, private owners and fleet operators. Toyota is currently offering benefits of up to Rs 55,000 on its people mover. Buyers get the choice of two diesels – 2.4- and a 2.8-litre unit – and one petrol engine, a 2.7-litre unit.
Save up to Rs 55,000Launched last year, the Yaris was Toyota’s long-awaited rival to the Honda City and Maruti Suzuki Ciaz. Offered with a sole petrol engine, paired with either a manual or CVT gearbox, Toyota, in September this year, upgraded the sedan by bringing in new trim levels, updated equipment and a dual-tone variant. Dealers are presently offering benefits of up to Rs 55,000 on the midsize sedan.
Save up to Rs 40,000The first shared model under the company’s partnership with Maruti Suzuki, the Glanza is essentially a rebadged Maruti Baleno. Offered with a choice of petrol engines – 1.2 and 1.2 mild-hybrid – the Glanza can be had with either a manual or CVT gearbox and is available in two trim levels, based on the top two trims of the Baleno. Prospective customers can benefit from discounts of up to Rs 40,000 on the premium hatchback.
Save up to Rs 35,000The Etios and Liva have been updated multiple times since their launch back in 2010 and 2011, respectively. The siblings have continued to soldier on, though sales have dropped dramatically owing to newer and better-equipped alternatives in the market. However, they both have a spacious cabin and are known for their reliability. Engine options for the Etios sedan include a 90hp, 1.5-litre petrol and a 68hp, 1.4-litre diesel, the latter of which is shared with the hatchback. The Liva also gets the option of an 80hp, 1.2-litre petrol. Toyota dealers are presently offering benefits of up to Rs 35,000 for the long-standing models.

        Disclaimer: Discounts vary from city to city. Please check with your local dealer for exact discounts, which may not match figures quoted here. 
      
