
# Google's App Defense Alliance teams up to fight malware on Android

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:31:38+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/googles-app-defense-alliance-team-will-fight-malware?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Google will partner with three mobile security software makers to improve its ability to catch malware on Android. The new App Defense Alliance will bring Google together with ESET, Lookout, and Zimperium — all makers of endpoint security software for Android mobile devices. Google says these partners were chosen for their success in finding malware and for the recognition they receive from industry analysts.
These new security partners will get direct access to the Google Play Protect screening system to share samples back and forth. Google may share app samples with the vendors and vice versa. When malware is found, it will be flagged and categorized for further handling. Users can also report potential malware directly to the App Defense Alliance, and reporters can give Google a heads-up if a story will reveal an exploit.
Per the Vice President of Android Security & Privacy, Dave Kleidermacher:

        Source: Google
      
Some potentially harmful apps (PHA) may be allowed to pass through Google Play if they are user-desirable. For instance, apps that root the phone and change the system software are potentially harmful, but if the user understands the risks (or nods and smiles while watching a YouTube tutorial) then the app can be installed. The first time the app is installed, the user will get a detailed description of the risk factors involved and can accept the danger explicitly.
If an app features more than one malware behavior, it will be categorized as both, but Google has a priority system in place to determine which malfeasance is the most disruptive. Google also separates "Unwanted Software," which is not strictly malware but might take unwanted and rude actions like pretending to be another app or offering disruptive advertisements.
Google trusts them so maybe you should
Part of Google's new App Defense Alliance, Lookout Security & Antivirus probably came preloaded on your phone. If not, you can download it for free from Google Play, and the app offers upgrade options for security enhancements.

        more privacy Latest WhatsApp update lets you control who can add you to a group WhatsApp has made a few changes to its Group Privacy Settings to give users more control over who can add them to a group chat.
      

        Here we go! Amazon's big Black Friday sales on its hardware kick off November 22 If you were wondering when you would be able to get your hands on Amazon's devices for less during Black Friday, the answer is here. The company will be staggering the deals with the first set of price drops taking place on November 22.
      

        come closer Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max can now react based on your proximity Ultrasonic sensing is now rolling out to the Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max, which allows them to dynamically change what is on the display as you get closer or further away.
      

        Buyer's guide These are the best rugged Android phones Living the rough and tumble life? Get yourself a smartphone that can handle everything you throw at it — or throw your phone at.
      
