
# Brave Plymouth boy, 5, is battling rare genetic disorder

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Molly Dowrick**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/brave-plymouth-boy-5-battling-3487229)

A Plymouth mum whose five-year-old son has just been diagnosed with a genetic disorder of the eyes is appealing to the public to take a moment to learn about the condition.
Tanya Rickard, 30, who lives in Hooe, was diagnosed with retinitis pigmentosa when she was nine years old, after she struggled to see in the night when potty training as a toddler, and had experienced years of struggling to see in darkness and low-lit rooms.
Now, her five-year-old son Christopher has been diagnosed with the condition, which can cause gradual - but permanent - changes that reduce vision, potentially leading to blindness.
Tanya told Plymouth Live she completely 'broke down' when her son was diagnosed, but wants to raise awareness of retinitis pigmentosa, and is also planning a charity ball to raise funds for the Retinitis Pigmentosa (RP) Society, which supports people affected by RP and invests in medical research.
Tanya told Plymouth Live that her son Christopher hadn't previously shown many symptoms of the condition, for example, he didn't seem to have the 'tunnel vision' often associated with RP, but she had become concerned when he had struggled to find his seat in a low-lit cinema and had shared his difficulties seeing in the dark.
Christopher told Tanya: "I can't see in the dark, mummy," earlier this year, leading to their visit to the Royal Eye Infirmary.
"I took my little boy to the eye infirmary and found out he had the condition. It completely broke me down.
"I know there's far worse things that could happen, but you just want your child to be perfect," she added.
Retinitis Pigmentosa, often known as 'RP', is the name given to a group of inherited eye conditions called retinal dystrophies, says The Royal National Institute of Blind People.
According to the RNIB: "A retinal dystrophy such as RP affects the retina at the back of your eye and, over time, stops it from working.
"This means that RP causes gradual but permanent changes that reduce your vision.
"How much of your vision is lost, how quickly this happens and your age when it begins depends on the type of RP that you have. The changes in your vision happen over years rather than months, and some people lose more sight than others."
Tanya has the 'dominant' version of RP, she says, and particularly experiences 'night blindness,' trouble seeing in the dark or at night.
Because the condition is inherited, Tanya's children have been monitored from a young age, but Tanya also made a note of any time Christopher seemed to struggle, such as in the cinema.
Christopher was diagnosed early, Tanya says, but struggles with his medication sometimes.
He has to have three eye drops in each eye everyday which 'sting' Tanya says, but he is 'accepting' of his condition and understands he needs to have this medication.
Tanya said seeing her son struggle from the sting of the eye drops can be 'heartbreaking'.
Tanya told Plymouth Live she used to try and keep her diagnosis quiet, and not share with others what she was experiencing.
But, after Christopher's recent diagnosis, Tanya wants people to know and learn about RP.
"I no longer want to keep my diagnosis hidden, I want people to know about it and learn about RP," she said.
Tanya has organised a Winter Wonderland themed Charity Ball next month, she says, so people can have a good evening out while learning about the condition.
She told Plymouth Live: "I'm running a charity event, a Winter Wonderland Charity Ball, as a social gathering for people to have fun and learn about the condition."
"It's not about ramming charity down people's necks," she said. "It's a happy thing, to open people's eyes [and tell them about the condition]."
"Everybody can get together and have fun before Christmas, and learn a little bit about the condition," she added.
The Winter Wonderland charity ball for the RP society will be held on Saturday, November 23 from 6.30pm to midnight.
It is a black tie event and will be held at the New Continental Hotel in Plymouth city centre.
Tickets include a three course meal and a band, DJ, photographer and photo booth. There will also be a raffle and aunction.
Tickets are £45 and can be bought from Tanya: tanyarickard1989@hotmail.com
Tanya has also set up a JustGiving page to raise funds for the RP Society, which supports people affected by the condition and invests in medical research.
On her site, she says: "I am trying to raise money for the Retinitis Pigmentosa society (RP), and am reaching out to as many as I can in search of support and donations - absolutely anything will be amazing and makes such a difference.
"RP is a degenerative condition. RP is a group of rare genetic disorders that involve the breakdown and loss of the cells in the retina - which is the light sensitive tissue that lines the back of the eye - causing difficulty seeing at night and the loss of peripheral vision, and eventually resulting in blindness.
"With money [raised for the charity], eventually a cure may be developed and can then go on to help my children and children’s children, should they develop RP."
"Without fundraising and donations, medicine would not be able to advance," she added.
If you'd like to support Tanya's fundraising for research into RP, click here.
