
# Jurgen Klopp explains how he's preparing for Liverpool's Man City showdown

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:33:53+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopp-explains-how-hes-20805064?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

Jurgen Klopp is yet to think about Liverpool's crunch clash with champions Manchester City next weekend.
The Reds host Pep Guardiola's champions at Anfield next Sunday, in a mouthwatering encounter between the Premier League's top two.
But the Anfield chief, whose side sit six points clear at the top, says he isn't even thinking about the visit of City.
Liverpool came from behind to beat Aston Villa on Saturday, with Sadio Mane's injury-time winner giving them a 2-1 victory - having trailed at half-time.
But Klopp's side face Genk in the Champions League in midweek and that is his new focus after the win in the West Midlands.
He insists he hasn't spent any time thinking of next week's fixture and that it didn't cross his mind while speaking to his side at the break.
Klopp said: “I never thought a second about the Man City game and the Aston Villa game together.
"I never thought, ‘OK, you should win that, because maybe we lose next week and then we are on a level [points] or whatever.’
“As yet, I have no clue about any Premier League results from other teams, I didn’t ask, it was not too important."
And even now that three points at Villa Park have been claimed, the German's focus is firmly on their return meeting with Genk, whom they beat 4-1 in Belgium.
“We play Genk and then we play City," added Klopp.
"Yes, it’s important, away at Aston Villa, the way they set up, really important, really difficult, but we did it and that’s good.
"And now we have to again collect the bounce and prepare for the next challenge - Genk.”
