
# Joe Trivelli’s savoury and sweet cold weather comfort food

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:30:13+00:00**

Author: **Joe Trivelli**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/food/2019/nov/03/joe-trivelli-savoury-and-sweet-cold-weather-comfort-food-recipes)


        Deeply warming dishes, from Italian bubble and squeak to a light and luscious apple pie
      
My grandmother used to fry eggs for me as a boy when she was on visits from southern Italy during winter months – always with a piece of cheese and some chilli that she brought in her suitcase. I have taken her lead here using them on a golden cabbage pancake that I know she’d enjoy. Although I am sure that she would add some spicy sausage that would be also lurking around the bottom of her case.
In the cold, I need comforting and these dishes will do this with warming ginger and a touch of acidity. When I asked my chef colleagues what they were looking forward to this autumn, the answer came back: “Eating all sorts of orange food while wearing a jumper.” The vongole surrounded by pumpkin pillars with fregola soaking everything up fits the bill. And if by the end of this you’re not feeling suitably cosy there is apple pie.
All of the joy I associate with bubble and squeak, but with a dustily Italian accent. Serves 4
potatoes 150g, peeled savoy cabbage 200g plain flour 90g polenta flour 60g bicarbonate of soda a pinch eggs 2 buttermilk 300g salt and pepperolive oileggs 4 cheese strong and harddried chilli 1, crushed
Boil and roughly mash the potatoes. Shred the cabbage and then boil it for 5 minutes. Drain it thoroughly.
Mix the flours and baking soda together. Beat the buttermilk and eggs together with 1 tbsp of olive oil. Into this, mix the flour, 2 good pinches of salt, a grind of pepper and finally the vegetables. Set aside to rest a moment.
When you are ready to eat, fry a ladle of batter in a heavy-bottomed pan in 1 tbsp of olive oil over a medium heat. Do this one ladleful at a time. Then, fry eggs in more olive oil over a medium heat, seasoned and topped with two shards of strong cheese and a pinch of chilli.
Serve the pancakes, warmed in the oven if necessary, with the eggs on the top.
Baking everything together gives this dish unity. One to serve on the table directly from the pan. Serves 4
clams 200g pumpkin 1, medium olive oilfregola 360g garlic 1 clove parsley a few sprigs ginger 1 piecedried chilli flakes pinch butter a knob white wine two capfuls pecorino 2 tbsp, grated
Heat the oven to 180C/gas mark 4. Bring a large pot of salted water to the boil Clean the clams. Peel the pumpkin and cut it into pieces, roughly 3cm cubed. Heat a large pan or skillet that can go in the oven. Coat the pumpkin cubes with a little olive oil and salt and roast in the oven for 10 minutes.
During this time boil the fregola. Chop the garlic. Chop the parsley. Peel and grate the ginger. Then drain the fregola.
Remove the pumpkin from the oven, turn the cubes over. Add the garlic, parsley, ginger, chilli, clams and fregola, and stir thoroughly. Place the butter in the middle, pour over the wine and scatter the cheese.
Return to the oven for 15 minutes, or until all the clams open. Serve at once.
Steaming aubergines until they are almost translucent changes their texture. Dress when warm, but eat once they have cooled to be most delicious. Serves 4
aubergines 1 or 2 (about 750g total)ginger 2in, peeled (about 25g)garlic ½ a clovesea saltdried chilli 1, crushed oregano leaves 1 tbsp, dried or fresh vinegar 3 tbsp tomato 1, finely chopped (about 150g)mint ½ bunch olive oil
Bring a deep pan of water to the boil, choose one that will accommodate a steamer on top. Cut the aubergine in half then into 2cm slices. Sit them in the steamer above the water for 15 minutes, while you make the marinade.
Grate the peeled ginger and the garlic into a bowl. Season with salt, chilli, oregano, vinegar. Add the tomato. Set the aubergines into this while still warm, dressing with chopped mint and some olive oil, and allow to cool together. Eat within a few days.
This indulgent pastry is super light and prefers a light touch to an electric mixer. Eat it with the ice cream recipe that follows. Serves 4
00 flour 200g baking powder 1 tsp golden caster sugar 85g salt pinch butter 200g, softened mascarpone 200g apples 4 lemon juice of ½ demerara sugar 2 tbsp
To make the pastry, first mix the flour, baking powder, caster sugar and salt together. In a large bowl with a fork or wooden spoon, mix the mascarpone and butter together until absolutely amalgamated, but not whipped. Mix in the flour and continue to combine with a spoon and eventually your hands. Do not overwork the dough, but wrap it in baking paper as soon as it is a homogenous thing. Allow it to rest for at least half an hour in the fridge.
Peel the apples and roughly cut them into small pieces. Squeeze over the lemon juice and sprinkle with 1 tbsp of demerara sugar. Heat the oven to 160C/gas mark 3.
Squeeze the dough between your fingertips, then press two thirds of it directly into a 15cm tart case. Take care to join the pieces together so there are no gaps. Fill with the apple and top with the rest of the dough, pressed slightly thinner. Gaps are more than acceptable. Sprinkle with the last spoon of sugar and bake for 45 minutes.
Inspired by a trip to a Dorset ice cream parlour, neither the coconut nor the lime dominate, but act as brothers-in-arms. Serves 6
coconut chips 50gdouble cream 300ml coconut milk 400ml limes 2, unwaxed egg yolks 5 golden caster sugar 130g
Toast the coconut chips in a pot for a few minutes over a medium heat until fragrant and browned around the edges. Add this to the cream, coconut milk and the zest from the limes. Bring gently to a simmer.
Whisk the yolks with the sugar. Pour two ladles of the hot milk mix over the eggs, whisking to loosen, and then whisk this into the rest of the milk. Continue to cook, stirring all the time, until the custard is thickened. About 4 minutes.
Transfer to a bowl, still stirring, and once cool, into the fridge, preferably overnight. Sieve and add the juice of one of the limes before churning according to the instructions of your ice cream machine if you have one. If not, freeze in a metal bowl, removing after 40 minutes then beat with a fork. Return to the freezer and repeat 40 minutes later, twice more.

        Joe Trivelli is co-head chef at the River Café
      
