
# Queen 'said Thatcher stayed too long and talked too much', claims secret diary

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:09:53+00:00**

Author: **Zoe Forsey, https://www.facebook.com/zoeforseymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/queen-said-thatcher-stayed-long-20810449)

The Queen famously didn't always see eye to eye with Margaret Thatcher , and the two women reportedly didn't get on.
Insiders have even gone as far as to suggest that the Monarch debating cancelling her traditional Wednesday meetings all together.
But extracts from a secret journal written by newspaper diarist Kenneth Rose, who mixed with the royal circles during his long career, give us more of an insight into what the Queen really thought of the Tory Prime Minister.
In one of the entries, which he has published in the Daily Mail , he writes that she one told one of the members of the team that Thatcher "stays too long and talks too much".
His entry from September 18, 1985 reads: "Jean Trumpington to dine.
"She relates how when she went to take her leave of the Queen as a Baroness-in-Waiting on being promoted to be Under-Secretary in the Department of Health and Social Security, the Queen said of the PM [Mrs Thatcher]: ‘She stays too long and talks too much. She has lived too long among men.’"
 
Another entry from 12 years later also discusses their relationship.
On June 1, 1997 he writes: "To Headington for tea with [philosopher] Isaiah Berlin. We talk of relations between the Queen and her Prime Ministers.
"The Queen is careful never to reveal what she thinks of each, although it is generally known that she and Margaret Thatcher had sharp disagreements on the importance of the Commonwealth. Isaiah now has an important piece of evidence.
"Both the Queen and Thatcher came to a gala at Covent Garden, but sat in different parts of the house. In the interval, the Queen let it be known that she did not want to meet Mrs Thatcher — who was sent to an upper room for drinks, as was Isaiah. Thatcher then said she would like to say goodbye to the Queen, a request that was ignored."
 
In an entry the following year he claims that the Queen's meetings with Tony Blair were much longer than the ones she had with Thatcher.
This is far from the first time details of their difficult relationship have been made public.
Declassified files revealed in 2017 claimed the Tory PM enraged the Queen by  defying Commonwealth leaders in a vote over apartheid .
Files from the National Archives of Ireland show that Thatcher sparked international anger after refusing to back tighter sanctions against South Africa.
 
The move had been agreed by 47 leaders at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Vancouver, Canada, but Mrs Thatcher refused, thwarting efforts to end apartheid and enraging heads of state.
An Irish diplomat based in London reported back to Dublin that it was widely regarded that the PM had “blundered badly” and “she well knows but cannot admit her mistake”.
After speaking with a source at Buckingham Palace, he sent a confidential message to the Taoiseach’s office. The diplomat wrote: “There is a wide view too that the Queen is in a rage with Mrs Thatcher over her handling of the sanctions (the Queen, it is said, sees the insensitivity as further damaging ‘her’ Commonwealth at a sensitive time).”
Using the nickname Brenda, which was given to the Queen by satirical magazine Private Eye, the diplomat continued: “A source in the palace said that ‘Brenda’ was seriously considering cancelling last night’s Tuesday audience with the prime minister. This audience... has existed for more than a century.”
