
# Xiaomi Mi TV 5 series teased again- 5.9mm thin, Quantum dot display, and more - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:47:43+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/xiaomi-tv-5-series-teased-again-5-9mm-thin-quantum-dot-display-and-more/)

Xiaomi Mi TV 5 series teased again- 5.9mm thin, Quantum dot display, and more4.3 (85%) 12 votes
The much-hyped November 5th event in China is only a few hours away. Xiaomi isn’t keeping anything secret at the moment. It has revealed quite a lot about the upcoming TV, the CC9Pro and the Mi Watch. Besides the Xiaomi CC9 Pro, and the Mi Watch, Xiaomi will also be updating its Mi TV series with the launch of the Mi TV 5 series.
In an early morning teaser today, general manager of the Xiaomi TV Department – Xiao Xiaoshuang revealed the upcoming Xiaomi TV 5 series adopts a full-screen design, which is 47.1% narrower than the previous generation frame. The TV 5 gets a higher screen to body ratio, wider field of view,  while offering a more immersive viewing experience.

        The Xiaomi Mi TV 5 series features a metal body, with a single bent frame, no screws on the backplate and measures 5.9mm thick at its thinnest part. So the TV should come with an almost bezel-free design.
      
Xiaomi through a series of teasers has already revealed the Xiaomi  Mi TV 5 series will 4K QLED panels sourced from Samsung and will boast an NTSC color gamut coverage of 108%. It supports MEMC motion compensation technology, HDR 10+ support with high dynamic range image display, and comes with 9th generation image quality engine technology to restore the true color.
Compared to the previous generation of the Mi TV, the Mi TV 5 series is expected to come with the four-unit speaker. It offers an improved acoustic response curve by optimizing the acoustic waveguide structure. The bass is thicker, the treble is more delicate, and the sound field is wider. It supports Dolby and DTS audio double decoding.
