
# UFC 244 early prelims results & video: Chookagian dominates Maia, Good melts Rencountre

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:02:35+00:00**

Author: **Eddie Mercado**

Original: [Bloody Elbow](https://www.bloodyelbow.com/2019/11/2/20945605/ufc-244-early-prelims-results-video-chookagian-dominates-maia-good-melts-rencountre-mma-news)

The UFC 244 Fight Pass prelims just ended with the company’s #1 ranked flyweight, Katlyn Chookagian, taking a dominant decision win over the #5 ranked Jennifer Maia. Chookagian used her range and landed a variety of strikes en route to the nod. Being ranked where she is, there just may be a title fight in her future.
Before that, Lyman Good landed all of the strikes on Chance Rencountre. He kept bombing away on a ever-tough opponent, and then pulled out the third round TKO to avoid the scorecards. Opening up the event, Hakeem Dawodu and Julio Arce put on a sticky technical fight for all three rounds. Dawodu was just a step ahead for the majority of the match, earning himself a tough split decision win. Dawodu now enjoys a four-fight wining streak, and asked for a ranked opponent in his next outing.

        Fight Pass prelims:
      
Chookagian took the center to kick things off. Maia tried to bomb, but had difficulty closing the distance. Maia was bale to push her foe against the fence, but didn’t land anything significant before Chookagian broke free. Chookagian used her reach advantage, tagging Maia from the outside.
The volume of Chookagian continued to be there in the second round. She was linking her straight punches with her high kicks. The variety of strikes from Chookagian made it tough for Maia to establish any consistency.
Maia closed the distance to start the third act, but again Chookagian was able to free herself before taking any damage. In open space, it continued to be one way traffic. Chookagian was landing the better strikes while moving out of the way of her opponent’s. Maia did get a takedown with just over a minute left in the fight, but time expired before anything manifested.

        **It should be noted that Maia missed weight
      
Good came out cracking with his right hand. Rencountre closed the distance but Good wasn’t having it and broke free back into his wheelhouse. Rencountre kept grabbing ahold of the Thai plum, but Good kept bombing on him. The big punches of Good continued in the second act. Rencountre would eat knuckles whenever he tried to close the distance. Despite showing signs of fatigue setting in, Good continued to land at a descent clip.
The third round saw more of the same, with Rencountre starting top bleed from the face. Good kept putting it on his foe. He was landing technical and powerful punches with Rencountre there to be hit. Good ultimately landed a head kick to right cross that dropped Rencountre. After a single ground strike was dropped, the referee stepped in to call it off.
