
# Great Britain call up Leeds Rhinos winger Ash Handley as late tour cover

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Julie Stott**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-league/great-britain-call-up-leeds-20830121)

Wayne Bennett has backtracked on his policy of not calling up reinforcements for Great Britain's injury-hit tour.
The Lions coach is bringing in Leeds winger Ash Handley, just days after saying his current injury-hit squad could cope.
Handley, 23, will link up with Bennett's men early next week and will play in the final Test against Papua New Guinea.
Tour manager Jamie Peacock said: “We’ve been considering our options since losing Ryan Hall and it makes sense for Ash to come out and join us in PNG.
 
“He had a good season with Leeds to earn his place in the Great Britain Performance Squad, which means he’s had all the necessary injections to come to PNG at short notice.
"He’s the sort of guy who will really appreciate and benefit from the experience of joining the senior squad, and he will add to our options in an area where our plans have been affected by injury.”
Hall's wing spot will be taken by Zak Hardaker in Saturday’s Test against New Zealand - eight years after he last played on the wing.
The Wigan full-back, who has played centre in the opening two Test defeats, said: "It's a long time but it's a bit like riding a bike, you never lose it. I played there for a number of years when I was younger.
“It's just about positioning but it's not much of an issue, I should be alright. Catching the ball is probably one of my strongest parts and I like to think I'm good at reading the game."
Hall has returned to Sydney Roosters for treatment on a dislocated knee, while centre Oliver Gildart has flown home to England for a shoulder reconstruction.
Prop Luke Thompson hopes to return in the final game in Port Moresby next week after damaging ribs early in the opening loss to Tonga.
