
# 'Elevated' pitch for first India-Bangladesh T20I

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:56:25+00:00**

Author: **Arani Basu**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/bangladesh-in-india/elevated-pitch-for-first-india-bangladesh-t20i/articleshow/71873877.cms?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=TOIDesktop)

NEW DELHI: The 'hazardous' pollution in the city aside, the pitch at the Ferozeshah Kotla will be in focus too. The square here came in for sharp criticism during the last IPL for being too slow and low. However, the pitch looks a bit different this time after heavy 'repair' and 'renovation' work during the off-season.
Fresh soil has been added to elevate the square above the outfield. Daljit Singh, former chief of BCCI's grounds and pitches committee, had told TOI that an elevated surface helps to derive better bounce out of it. Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) curator Ankit Datta has readied the centre pitch for the match on Sunday.
"The pitch has a fair bit of grass and looks that the ball should come on to the bat nicely," Bangladesh captain Mahmudullah said on Saturday.
India skipper Rohit Sharma said: "We will decide if we want to go with seamer-heavy attack if the pitch has grass on it or else we will go with more spinners."

        Monitoring visibility
      
TOI has learnt that the match referee is concerned about the visibility inside the stadium. "The visibility dipped in the evening even with the lights on. The structure of the stadium is such that the smog or fog settles in with little ventilation. The match referee has asked the BCCI and the local groundsmen to have a person to monitor the visibility and give an hourly update on Saturday evening," a source told TOI.
