
# Calvert, Hickson guide Liberty past UMass 63-21

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:46:19+00:00**

Author: **EndPlay**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/massachusetts/calvert-hickson-guide-liberty-past-umass-6321/1004388034?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

AMHERST, Mass. (AP) - Stephen Calvert passed for 474 yards and four touchdowns and Frankie Hickson added three scoring runs as Liberty overpowered Massachusetts 63-21 on Saturday in a game between independent programs.
Liberty (6-3) took control of the game in the first quarter. Hickson capped a game-opening drive with a 7-yard touchdown run. The Minutemen were forced to punt on their first drive, but DJ Stubbs fumbled and Isaiah Rodgers recovered the ball, giving UMass a first-and-10 at the Liberty 16. Cam Roberson ran it in from there to knot the score at 7.
It took the Flames three plays to regain the lead for good. Calvert connected with Joshua Mack for a 62-yard gain on second down and freshman quarterback Brandon Robinson stepped in and tossed his first career TD pass, a 5-yarder to Troy Henderson. Calvert stretched the Flames' lead to 14 with a 31-yard scoring strike to Demario Douglas with 1:36 left in the second quarter. After Liberty forced a three-and-out, Calvert needed just two plays to make it 28-7 - hitting Antonio Gandy-Golden for a 60-yard TD with 2 seconds left.
Hickson, who finished with 99 yards on 14 carries, had two third-quarter TD runs for Liberty. Calvert connected on 20 of 27 passes without an interception. Gandy-Golden had six catches for 137 yards.
Andrew Brito completed 16 of 27 passes for 134 yards and two touchdowns for the Minutemen.
