
# Reports: Zidane Feels Betrayed By Bale

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:47:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/reports-zinedine-zidane-feels-betrayed-by-gareth-bale/666485)

After giving superstar Gareth Bale regular game time earlier this season, Real Madrid manager Zinedine Zidane is now believed to feel betrayed by the Welsh winger after some recent developments.

        
          Zidane Names His Potential Real Successor
        
      
It is widely known that Bale and Zidane have not always seen eye to eye at Los Blancos, but a new problem has reportedly arisen.
When it became clear the 30-year-old was not leaving Real at the beginning of the season, a conversation was had between the pair about the 2019/20 season, one that Zidane deemed went well.
The manager promised Bale that if he was up for the campaign and fully committed, he would be counted on, which showed in the team's first few games of the season.
Bale played eight of Los Blancos' first 10 matches before the second international break, although Zidane left him out of the team's UEFA Champions League encounter against Club Brugge to give him a rest.

        
          Choose the left-back for SA's Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt!
        
      
The winger, however, still joined up with the Wales national team during the latest break, and openly criticised the Frenchman's decision to leave him out of that UCL matchday squad.
According to Sport, the 47-year-old has taken issue with Bale's behaviour as he was under the impression that he and the player had an understanding as to the reasons for his exclusion.
At the moment, the former Tottenham Hotspur star is out with an injury, but reports seem to suggest that the club is now considering selling him in the January transfer window.

        
          10 Records Messi & Ronaldo Have Not Yet Broken
        
      
Perhaps they feel the relationship between the player and coach will not get any better, especially after what has gone on since the end of latest international break.
