
# Son Heung-min opens up on Andre Gomes injury aftermath after Tottenham double

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:28:24+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/son-heung-min-opens-up-20829018)

Tottenham star Son Heung-min has opened up on his "really tough few days" after the challenge which caused Andre Gomes to suffer a horrific ankle injury.
Everton midfielder Gomes has undergone successful surgery on a fracture dislocation on his right ankle and been released from hospital after suffering the injury at Goodison Park on Sunday.
South Korean star Son left the field in tears and inconsolable after being sent off for the sliding tackle which caused the Portuguese international to fall awkwardly.
Son, who has had his red card overturned by an independent panel after an appeal, scored twice as Spurs beat Red Star Belgrade 4-0 in the Champions League.
He appeared to apologise as he celebrated his opening goal before saying he is "really, really sorry" for the "accident" that took place.
Speaking to BT Sport, he said: "Of course these are really tough few days.
"I realised how lucky I am. The supporters, friends and team-mates. Everyone gave me strong messages.
"I'm really, really sorry for this accident and the situation.
"Of course, I have to focus on the team and respect the football.
"Keep going and working hard. This is my right answer to all the people who support me."
Son broke his silence on the incident hours after Gomes sent a message to supporters in his first social media post since the injury.
In the video, which was captioned "Thank you for your unconditional support", he said: "Hi everyone. As you already know everything went well. I'm already at home with my family.
"I would like to thank you all for the support, messages and the positive enegry. Thank you."
