
# Liverpool Under-23s boss Neil Critchley set to take Carabao Cup clash with Aston Villa

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:32:07+00:00**

Author: **Liam Prenderville, http://www.facebook.com/mirrorfootball**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-under-23s-boss-neil-20830378)

Liverpool Under-23s boss Neil Critchley is in line to take charge of the Carabao Cup quarter-final with Aston Villa.
The Reds are set to travel to Villa Park, just 24 hours before the Club World Cup semi-final in Qatar.
Jurgen Klopp is yet to make a decision on who will take charge of the two teams, with logistics meaning he is unlikely to be in the dugout for both.
Klopp is also likely to want to be with his players when they fly to Doha earlier in the week, before the FIFA competition.
The Mail reports Klopp's assistant Pep Lijnders is also a contender to take charge of the Villa tie, but Critchley may be a likelier option.
Klopp is said to have complete confidence in the Under-23s boss, who will know the players involved first hand.
Liverpool are set to play a similar team to the one that beat Arsenal in the last round, with the likes of Rhian Brewster, Sepp van den Berg and Curtis Jones set to feature.
First-team stars James Milner and Adam Lallana played in the previous round but will likely travel to Qatar, meaning the Reds will have to raid the Under-23 side to fill the squad at Villa.
Speaking on the decision to play the game on December 17, Klopp said: "We asked Aston Villa if they would come to Qatar and we can play the game there!”
“We have an idea how we do it, but it’s too early to speak about it. We made a decision because all the other alternatives were more problems than solutions, so we said ‘OK’.
“This is how we can do it as good as possible for us. We have a bit of time to think about that, and more important things to do.
“In these next couple of weeks we will make a decision about how it will look exactly. But in the end, they will play a Liverpool team, 100 per cent.”
