
# Caitlyn Jenner Says Preparing To Transition Is Harder Than Competing In Olympics

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:39:15+00:00**

Author: **Cameron Frew**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/celebrity/caitlyn-jenner-says-preparing-to-transition-is-harder-than-competing-in-olympics/)


        Caitlyn Jenner, a former gold medal-winning athlete, says coming out as a trans woman was more difficult than competing in the Olympic Games. 
      
Caitlyn, previously known as Bruce, came out as transgender in 2015. Going from Olympic athlete in a former life to reality star, alongside ex-wife Kris Jenner and the other high-profile family members, Keeping Up With The Kardashians put her further in the spotlight.
However, while ‘everyone loved the games’, Caitlyn Jenner felt far less accepted after transitioning from male to female.
The 70-year-old reality star recently spoke on the BBC’s Don’t Tell Me the Score Podcast, saying people ‘hated her guts’ when she transitioned.

        Caitlyn said: 
      
Caitlyn, who has six children, said: ‘I have the great double. Olympic decathlon champion [in 1976] and Glamour’s Woman of the Year.’ However, she added that while she enjoyed succeeding at sports, training helped her to ‘run away from her issues’.

        Caitlyn explained: 
      
Following transition, the 70-year-old has raised around $2.6 million for trans organisations. However, while ‘a lot of them are extraordinarily appreciative of it’, others are apparently wary of how controversial Caitlyn can be.
While on the podcast, she also took a moment to comment on the International Olympic Committee’s approach to trans athletes competing in the 2020 Olympic Games, saying ‘they deserve the opportunity to play sports’.

        Caitlyn added: 
      
Just recently, Rachel McKinnon, a transgender cyclist, defended her world title win after Donald Trump Jr. said ‘this bullshit will destroy women’s sports’.

        Cameron Frew
      
After graduating from Glasgow Caledonian University with an NCTJ and BCTJ-accredited Multimedia Journalism degree, Cameron ventured into the world of print journalism at The National, while also working as a freelance film journalist on the side, becoming an accredited Rotten Tomatoes critic in the process. He’s now left his Scottish homelands and took up residence at UNILAD as a journalist.
