
# Kate Middleton pops to pub with school-run mums - using secret door made for Prince Harry

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:30:14+00:00**

Author: **Zoe Forsey, https://www.facebook.com/zoeforseymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/kate-middleton-pops-pub-school-20806862)

The Duchess of Cambridge popped to the pub with a group of other mums from Prince George and Princess Charlotte 's school - and she managed to go undetected thanks to a secret door set up for Harry.
Kate attended Thomas's Battersea's 'meet and greet' drinks party for parents of children who joined the school in September, including little Charlotte.
The event was held at the Hollywood Arms in Chelsea, which used to be a popular hangout for London socialites.
Kate's brother-in-law Prince Harry used to be a regular there, so much so that the former owners created a secret entrance for him so he could come and go without being photographed, reports the Mail on Sunday .
 
While a more relaxed location now, the pub used to be known for its wild parties and impressive guestlists.
The school event was held in the pub's private room the Boulevard Bar, which costs £2,500 to hire for the evening.
Kate had just one protection officer with her who was in the background while she chatted with the other mums and dads.
The Duchess and husband Prince William are regulars on the school run, and are often spotted dropping George and Charlotte off at the gates.
 
And while you might expect that the other people in the playground would be very excited to see the royals every day, it turns out people barely look at them any more.
But one parent told the Daily Mail there's actually another mum who people find a lot more interesting than Kate and Wills - especially the dads.
They said: "No one really gives Kate a second glance when she does the school drop-off.
"We have a Victoria's Secret model doing the school run, too, and the dads are far more interested in her!"
