
# Liverpool could make Timo Werner transfer swoop in January says former Reds ace

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gareth Bicknell**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/liverpool-could-make-timo-werner-20829828)

Liverpool could strengthen their fearsome forward line by swooping for Timo Werner in January, according to Emile Heskey.
Reds boss Jurgen Klopp opted not to sign senior players in the summer following the Reds' Champions League triumph.
But Heskey reckons Klopp must spend in the new year as he bids to keep his side ahead of Manchester City in the race for the Premier League title.
Werner has been linked with both Liverpool and Manchester United , and the 23-year-old centre-forward has scored eight goals in all competitions for RB Leipzig this season.
Liverpool of course have Sadio Mane, Mo Salah and Roberto Firmino as their first-choice forwards, as well as Divock Origi and Rhian Brewster as back-up.
But former Reds striker Heskey thinks they need another top-class attacker to ease the pressure on Mane, Salah and Firmino and freshen up the competition.
“I think he'll reinforce,” said Heskey, who was speaking of behalf of GentingBet in quotes reported by the Daily Star . “He'll just add one or two in key areas.
“I don't think they have enough strength and depth in attack.
“They do at the back - particularly at centre-back - but going forward they are more limited.
“Divock Origi is handy when he comes on, but they've got a young lad like Rhian Brewster who isn't established yet - even though he's a great talent.
“Nobody knows what he could possibly become. But at this moment in time we don't know if he's the next big thing."
Heskey isn't worried that the potential arrival of 28-cap Germany international Werner could upset the dressing room balance at Liverpool - insisting instead that it could spur the club's current strike force on to even greater levels of performance.
“It can rattle egos,” said Heskey.
“But this is where your staff will have done their homework.
“In a sense of who you bring into the club, obviously it's going to upset someone - especially when they could take your place.
“But as a player, you've got to be able to say: ‘Okay I'm going to rise to the occasion’.”
“Origi still has a future there, but as a starter - someone you'll put your faith in - probably not.”
Liverpool and United have been warned by RB Leipzig that they do not intend to let Werner leave the club.
The striker is contracted to Leipzig until the summer of 2023 and would cost at least £58million, according to stats site Transfermarkt .
