
# Deodhar Trophy: Kedar, Nadeem win it for India 'B'

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:18:19+00:00**

Author: **Sam Chakraborty**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/deodhar-trophy-kedar-nadeem-win-it-for-india-b/articleshow/71918188.cms)

RANCHI: The last time Kedar Jadhav featured in India's limited overs set up was in the Caribbean Islands, in August, when West Indies were subdued 2-0 in a three-match ODI series.
The 34-year-old served a timely reminder to the national selectors with an audacious 86 of 94 balls as he powered India 'B' to a 51-run win over favorites India 'C', in the final of Deodhar Trophy here on Monday.
Despite pacer Ishan Porel's second List-A five-wicket haul, India 'B' posted a challenging 283 for seven in their 50 overs, before the defending champions could only manage 232 for nine.
Ahead of the final, Jadhav had been dismissed for five each against India 'A' and 'C' in the league stage. After Parthiv Patel called correctly at the toss and opted to bat first, Jadhav walked in with India 'B' in a spot of bother at 73/3. Off-spinner Jalaj Saxena had dismissed Baba Aparajith (13) in the 21st over of the innings.
After guiding the young Yashasvi Jaiswal (54), who cracked his fourth List A half-century, Jadhav added 79 runs with Nitish Rana (20) for the fifth wicket. Vijay Shankar took little time in settling down and carved out 33-ball 45-run cameo with four boundaries and two towering sixes. A target of 284 was always going to be a daunting task even for a formidable batting line-up led by Shubman Gill.
India 'C' skipper Gill (1) departed early, driving pacer Mohammed Siraj straight into the hands of Jaiswal at cover. Mayank Agarwal (28) appeared fluent but misjudged Shahbaz Nadeem's flight to become the left-arm spinner's first scalp of the day. While Uttar Pradesh's Priyam Garg (74) played exquisite cover drives and sublime cuts at the other end, India 'C' continued to lose wickets to atrocious shot selection and Nadeem's guile. The Jharkhand spinner dismissed Suryakumar Yadav (3) and Dinesh Karthik (3) in quick succession to break the backbone of the opposition batting, after Virat Singh (6) managed to run himself out.
Brief scores: India B 283/7 (Y Jaiswal 54, K Jadhav 86; I Porel 5/43) beat India C 232/9 (P Garg 74; Nadeem 4-32, Siraj 3-42) by 51 runs
