
# Football: Support for tearful red-carded Son after Gomes injury

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:20:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/sport/football-support-for-tearful-red-carded-son-after-gomes-injury-12060238?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

LONDON: Tottenham Hotspur forward Son Heung-min was left in tears after being involved in an incident that resulted in a sickening injury to Everton's Andre Gomes on Sunday (Nov 3).
Son was shown a red card after Gomes collapsed to the ground with what looked like a serious injury to his lower right leg.
He was clearly distraught, although his manager Mauricio Pochettino said the decision to send off Son was "unfair" - a view echoed by many former players and pundits alike.
Tottenham's Dele Alli, who scored his side's goal in the 1-1 draw at Goodison Park, said Son was inconsolable.
"Sonny is devastated and in tears. It's not his fault. Son is one of nicest people you've ever met. He can't even lift his head up, he's crying so much," Alli told Sky Sports.
It was a confusing situation all round as Son's attempted tackle made minimal contact with Gomes but the Portuguese midfielder then landed off balance at speed.
Referee Martin Atkinson initially showed a yellow card but then produced a red, apparently after a VAR intervention.
A Premier League statement said: "The red card for Son was for endangering the safety of a player which happened as a consequence of his initial challenge."
Twitter went into overdrive after the incident.
"Shocking decision to send Son off but that's insignificant in the scheme of things," former Liverpool and England striker Michael Owen said.
