
# Cops raid Bayan office, seize guns, explosives

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:02:10+00:00**

Author: **Itchie G. Cabayan**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/cops-raid-bayan-office-seize-guns-explosives)

Sinas said that the three suspects identified as  Ram Carlo Bautista, Alma Moran, and Reina Mae Nasino will be facing charges for violation of Republic Act 10591 or the Comprehensive Firearms and Ammunition Regulations Act of 2013 and RA 9516 or illegal possession of explosives.
The NCRPO said that the three were arrested inside a Bayan office along Flora corner Clemente Streets in Barangay 183 in Tondo which was raided by combined NCRPO and PNP Criminal Investigation and Detection Group operatives past 1 a.m. yesterday.
The raid led in the seizure of several firearms, assorted live ammunition and a grenade. The three were immediately placed under the custody of the PNP-CIDG for further questioning and documentation.
PNP spokesman, Brig. Gen. Bernard M. Banac said that the arrests were legitimate and done in accordance with law.  “The series of arrests of activist leaders and members shows the rule of law and criminal justice system at work,” he said.
“The PNP performs its mandate to enforce the law following established procedures with utmost respect for human rights. We assure the public that the PNP remains alert and vigilant to prevent occurrence of crimes and ready to respond to any emergency, calamity and call for assistance,” Banac added.
Sinas also denied having any hand in the recent search operations conducted against left-leaning groups. He issued the denial amid claims by Bayan Muna party-list Representative Carlos Zarate that he recently met with a Quezon City judge who issued the search warrants used by the police to raid Bayan Muna and Gabriela offices in Negros Occidental.
