
# ComplexCon 2019: The Top Brand Activations

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lauren Alvarez**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/laurenalvarez/2019/11/04/complexcon-2019-the-top-brand-activations/)

Hip-hop’s finest figures, brands, artists and food vendors took over Long Beach, California for the 4th annual ComplexCon at the Long Beach Convention Center on Saturday (November 2) and Sunday (November 3). From “Brands to Watch” to thought-provoking panel conversations, the convention featured an array of special appearances and energetic performances from Kid Cudi, Lil Kim, Anderson .Paak, 21 Savage and DaBaby. 
Panels ranged from Disruption: How Gen Z Is Taking Control with Yara Shahidi and Storm Reid to All Hail the Queens: The Women Changing the Face of Rap with Rico Nasty, Kamaiyah, Eve and Trina. Other intriguing conversations included the following: From YouTube to Major Moves with Complex’s own Hot Ones host Sean Evans, The Rise of Afropop and What Comes After Streetwear?
The First We Feast Lagoon kept attendees’ tastebuds satisfied in-between activities with their outside area of endless foodie options: Tacos 1986, Harold’s Chicken, Sweet Chick, Ricebox and Fat Sal’s Deli. The drinks were endlessly running, and the food lines were around the corner.
Aside from the back-to-back activities that were running the show all weekend, the one portion of the event that remained constant was the convention floor featuring brand activations. Here were the top brand activations at ComplexCon Long Beach 2019. 

        1. Blockbuster Booth 
      
The crowd-favorite station featured classic VHS tapes on stands to emulate the original video rental shop, along with a life-size video tape with the Blockbuster logo/cover. The staged video tapes on the stands featured favorites such as Legally Blonde, Sopranos, Grease, Drive Me Crazy and Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. Similar to the original store, which sold popcorn and snacks, the booth sold packaged movie candy, including Sour Patch Kids and Twizzlers. The booth even contained a merch line for sale, ranging from bright yellow T-shirts to royal blue sweatshirts.

        2. Billionaire Boys Club 
      
Pharrell Williams’ streetwear brand, Billionaire Boys Club, featured an epic collaboration with Spongebob Squarepants. Inspired by the episode Goons on the Moon, the line featured T-shirts, storage crates, skate decks and pins with Spongebob graphics. The most coveted item at the booth included the Human Made T-shirt collaboration with a graphic of Pharrell’s very own jewelry. 

        Honorable Mention: 
      
Takashi Murakami x Swarvoski debuted a one-of-a-kind skate deck and two sweatshirts. The exclusive skate deck sold out within four minutes of opening the official Gift Shop, and with good reason, seeing that the collection featured more than 800,000 crystals. The Swarovski pop-up booth also offered beanie and bandana customizations. 
