
# MGB deploys rapid assessment teams as earthquake death count climbs to 16

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:43:20+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/01/mgb-deploys-rapid-assessment-teams-as-earthquake-death-count-climbs-to-16/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
The Mines and Geosciences Board (MGB) has dispatched 10 rapid damage assessment teams in Regions 11 and 12, as the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) reported 14 earthquake-related casualties in the last three days. Close to 400, meanwhile, were reported injured.
A Philippines News Agency dispatch, however, placed the death toll at 16. The latest victims were identified as Tessie Alcayde, 70, of Sitio Kapatagan, Barangay Luayon, Makilala, Cotabato; and Lito Peles Mino, 59, resident of Sitio Musak, Barangay Sinapulan, Columbio, Sultan Kudarat.
The NDRRMC said Alcayde “died due to the 6.5 -magnitude earthquake” while Mino succumbed to a rockslide caused by the tremblor.
Moderate to strong earthquakes are still being felt in Mindanao, according to the earthquake information posted at the web site of the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (Phivolcs). 
MGB Director Wilfredo Moncano said five teams are now conducting a rapid assessment in Region 11 while the rest are conducting the same exercise in Region 12.
The conduct of rapid damage assessments aims to identify landslide areas and new landslide-prone areas that may have been formed as a result of earthquakes and typhoons.
Aside from MGB personnel, also part of the rapid damage assessment teams are engineers from the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) and members of the concerned local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office.
Environment Secretary Roy A. Cimatu, for this part, renewed his call to local government units (LGUs) to revisit the geological hazard maps distributed by the national government and use them as a guide in reducing the risk of, and managing disaster.
The NDRRMC previously reported that eight people were killed as a result of the 6.6-magnitude earthquake, also in Cotabato, on October 29. Both earthquakes were connected to the tremor that occurred on October 16, 2019.
The three consecutive earthquakes have already caused severe damage and destruction to several residential and commercial buildings in Cotabato and nearby provinces. The earthquake, according to the NDRRMC, affected four Mindanao regions—Regions 10, 11, 12 and the Bangsamoro region.
According to NDRRMC spokesman Mark Timbal, the agency is still conducting an assessment of the cost of the damage to public and private properties.
“While we were still conducting an assessment of the damage to property caused by the October 16 earthquake, another earthquake happened on October 29. 
“Yesterday [October 31], there was another strong earthquake. So…the first two earthquakes have caused severe damage to infrastructure,” he said.
Since the first earthquake, a 6.3-magnitude tremor that struck on October 16, residents of affected areas have started to evacuate. The evacuation continued as a stronger 6.6-magnitude earthquake was felt anew.
So far, a total of 4,604 individuals are currently staying in three emergency evacuation centers, said Timbal. These evacuation centers—one in Magsaysay, Davao del Sur, and two in Makilala and Kidapawan City in North Cotabato—are now providing temporary shelter to 2,035 individuals. With PNA report
