
# Premier League managers to meet referees’ head to discuss VAR problems

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:42:25+00:00**

Author: **PA Media**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/04/premier-league-managers-mike-riley-referees-manager-var)


        • Mike Riley to hold second meeting with managers on Thursday • Lack of pitchside monitors for referees to be discussed
      
Premier League managers will meet with Mike Riley, manager of the Professional Game Match Officials Limited (PGMOL), on Thursday to discuss the video assistant referee (VAR) system.
Riley, who heads the body responsible for the country’s leading referees, will meet the top flight’s northern-based managers after sharing views with southern managers last week.
The meetings had been planned months ago, it is understood, but following the latest VAR controversies the meeting on Thursday will include discussion of whether match officials should be allowed to consult pitchside monitors. Referees in all other competitions that currently use the VAR system are allowed to consult these monitors but those taking charge of Premier League matches are not.
Should a majority of managers and clubs agree on the issue, the PGMOL will consider introducing them but it is understood no formal vote will be made at this stage.
The Liverpool manager, Jürgen Klopp, vented his frustration at VAR after Roberto Firmino had a “goal” ruled out for offside during his side’s win at Aston Villa on Saturday. Klopp, who has said his side have been on the wrong end of several big VAR decisions this season, has called for clarification on the current use of the system.
Everton’s home draw against Tottenham on Sunday was the latest in a growing list of Premier League games in which VAR has come in for heavy criticism. Tottenham’s Dele Alli appeared to have handled in his own penalty area but after a three-minute delay VAR decided not to award Everton a spot-kick. PA Media
