
# India vs Bangladesh: MS Dhoni to do commentary during day-night Test at Eden?

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:27:31+00:00**

Author: **ANI**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/bangladesh-in-india/india-vs-bangladesh-ms-dhoni-to-do-commentary-during-day-night-test-at-eden/articleshow/71934687.cms)

NEW DELHI: Former India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who bid adieu to Test cricket in 2014, is likely to begin his new innings as a commentator when India take on Bangladesh in the day-night Test to be played at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata.
The broadcasters have sent the proposal but the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is yet to give permission.
"Yes, the broadcasters have sent the proposal but no decision has been taken as of now... If BCCI gives the permission, then Dhoni would be seen doing commentary in day-night Test to be played at the Eden Gardens," a BCCI source said.
Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) on October 29 agreed to the proposal of BCCI to play the second Test of the series as a day-night match, scheduled for to start from November.
Currently, India and Bangladesh are playing a three-match T20I series. The visitors won the first T20I by seven wickets to take a 1-0 lead.
Dhoni hasn't played any international cricket since India lost to New Zealand in the semifinal of the ICC World Cup earlier this year in England. Speculation has been rife about Dhoni's future plans in international cricket, but he himself hasn't spoken anything about it.
