
# White House talking to Republicans about Tax Cuts 2.0, Kudlow says

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:08:23+00:00**

Author: **Nihal Krishan**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/white-house-talking-to-republicans-about-tax-cuts-2-0-kudlow-says)

White House officials and Republicans in Congress have started discussions about a new round of tax cuts and other plans to boost the economy under pressure from President Trump, who wants a follow up to his 2017 tax cuts, top economic adviser Larry Kudlow said.
“I don’t have any details, but we would like to see some middle-class tax cuts. It will be announced during the campaign, and let’s just see where it takes us,” the White House National Economic Council Director said on Friday while talking on Fox Business.
Kudlow said that the White House in talks with House Ways and Means ranking member Kevin Brady about legislation, and will be talking to others in the House and Senate.
House Ways and Means ranking member Kevin Brady said Thursday that there likely won't be any movement on Tax Cuts 2.0 this year, but it is likely to come next year as the 2020 election approaches.
“I haven’t talked to them about any proposals this year but there will be a pro-growth agenda for the 2020 election that will include continued tax cuts,” the Texas Republican told reporters.
Democrats have dismissed the idea of working toward further Trump tax cuts. Democrats have alleged the 2017 tax law is a boon to corporations and the wealthy. They are frequently focused on increasing the tax rate to 25% or higher after it was lowered from 35% to 21%.
