
# ‘The Morning Show’Review: An Average Show With An Above Average Budget

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Merrill Barr**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/merrillbarr/2019/11/01/the-morning-showreview-an-average-show-with-an-above-average-budget/)

With Apple TV+ launching today, there are a lot of eyes on all of its day-one series. And, coming into this first round of sign-ups, there’s no show the company is pushing harder than The Morning Show - its big ($15 million per episode big) budget drama series starring Jennifer Aniston, Reese Witherspoon and Steve Carell. Now, after all the trade articles, commercials and hype, audiences are finally getting a chance to see the new show for themselves and what can be said about it is it’s… fine.Created by Jay Carson and showrun by Kerry Ehrin, The Morning Show follows the life of Alex Levy, the co-host of a hit morning news program who has her entire production thrown into chaos when her co-chair, Mitch Kessler, is fired from his position following a #MeToo scandal. Now, the hunt is on for Mitch’s replacement, which is about to come from a very unexpected place.
A little over a year ago, a story broke from The Wall Street Journal claiming some staff had become so disillusioned with the bland nature of Apple’s programming that they had taken to calling their company “expensive NBC.” Now, having seen the biggest pushed show from the service, that comparison seems incorrect.
What hurts The Morning Show is the very thing it’s garnered so much press for. It’s $15 million per episode, star-studded cast is simply overkill for what could’ve been a more compelling show had actresses and actors with more to prove had been placed at the center of it.
Because there’s nothing terribly new happening in the series from a plot perspective (at the end of the day, it’s just another take on the BTS of a TV show drama like many dramas before it - usually created by Aaron Sorkin), where there could have been a really interesting choice was in casting. This isn’t to say Aniston, Witherspoon and Carell don’t play their parts well, but that isn’t to say they're bringing the house down the way the show’s budget would imply.
Their respective performances feel much like just another job for them, when hungrier talent may have done more with the material.
In the end, there’s nothing at all wrong with The Morning Show. It’s a completely watchable character piece that has no qualms with dropping its subtlety when it comes to its #MeToo messaging. But, that’s all it is. Watchable. It’s average. It’s fine. Which, frankly, just isn't enough when Apple is staking a big chunk of its launch on it.

        The Morning Show is available on on Apple TV+
      
