
# Surrey Eagles pick up three points against BCHL foes

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:34:00+00:00**

Author: **Nick Greenizan**

Original: [North Delta Reporter](https://www.northdeltareporter.com/sports/surrey-eagles-pick-up-three-points-against-bchl-foes/)

After picking up three of a possible six points on the weekend, the Surrey Eagles are aiming to make up ground in the BC Hockey League standings during a homestand that will see them stick close to South Surrey Arena for the next two weeks.
Last weekend, the Birds lost on Friday – 5-3 to the visiting Penticton Vees – before rebounding Saturday in Chilliwack, edging the Chiefs in front of nearly 2,000 fans at the Chilliwack Coliseum. On Sunday, the Eagles returned home for an afternoon tilt against the Vernon Vipers, and lost 3-2 in a shootout after regulation time and overtime solved nothing.
“If you looked beforehand at those three games… (against) those three teams and told me we were going to get three points I would have been very happy with that,” said Eagles head coach Cam Keith. “Actually, I think we could have had five of the six points, and… we were a bit unlucky to get only three – although three is still good. Those are the results we want.”
Surrey now sits tied for fourth place with the Langley Rivermen in the BCHL’s Mainland Division, with a record of 7-13-0-2 (win-loss-overtime loss-shootout loss). The three-point weekend also provided them some breathing room in the league-wide standings, as they’re now ahead of the Victoria Grizzlies, West Kelowna Warriors and Merritt Centennials.
