
# Binance US Reaches 10% of Coinbase Trading Volume in First Month In Crypto Market

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:00:39+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/01/binance-us-reaches-10-of-coinbase-trading-volume-in-first-month-in-crypto-market/)

Binance exploded onto the scene in late 2017 and quickly captured the lion’s share of the overall crypto market, even despite dominance from platforms like Coinbase. But a recent change in the regulatory climate forced Binance to move US investors off its flagship platform and onto a new US-based exchange.
And just like the original Binance, the new US-based platform is already growing rapidly and has reached 10% of the trading volume Coinbase currently sees in a single day.
Back in June, Binance revealed that it would soon be shuttering US investors from using its regular trading platform, known for its exotic list of altcoins, and onto a new US-based platform sans many of the altcoins that put the crypto poster child on the map.

        
          Related Reading | Can Coinbase Capitalize On Binance Becoming Less Attractive To US Crypto Investors? 
        
      
The following panic in investors led to a mass exodus of altcoins, causing them to bleed out to new lows, while Bitcoin stole whatever interest was left in the crypto market.
But since Binance US opened in late September, the platform is already off to a great start, regularly adding new assets and already capturing 10% of the trading volume that rival Coinbase does.
Binance US trading volumes have grown to over $15 million on any given day, while Coinbase reaches roughly $150 million in the same timeframe.
