
# Three Necessities For Maximizing Your Digital Twins Approach

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jans Aasman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2019/11/04/three-necessities-for-maximizing-your-digital-twins-approach/)

The digital twin premise is arguably the most viable means of implementing equipment asset management throughout the industrial internet. It’s an exceptionally lucrative element of the internet of things (IoT), with an applicability that easily lends itself to numerous businesses. Its real-time streaming data, simulation capabilities and relationship awareness may well prove to be the “killer app” that makes the IoT mainstream.Digital Twins Types
There are presently three types of digital twins: those for individual assets, operations and predictions. In this article, we will focus on individual assets. Examples of these assets include drilling machines in the oil and gas industry or assembly line equipment. Each type of digital twin creates a three-dimensional simulation of the real-world features it models based on relationships of IoT data. The simulated models capture and contextualize this low-latent data about each asset for vital visibility into its performance. This real-time data provides a blueprint for diminishing downtime, scheduling maintenance and monitoring other factors that impact overall asset productivity and ROI. At scale, each factor translates into significant savings, increased performance and greater chances for optimization.
The crux of the digital twin’s expansive capabilities is almost entirely predicated on solving one of the more time-honored data management difficulties: data modeling. But the schema issues complicating downstream data modeling processes such as transformation, integration and predictive analytics can be swiftly redressed by knowledge graphs that simplify this vital prerequisite. The standards-based data models of semantic knowledge graphs deliver unparalleled flexibility, interoperability and low latency for which IoT deployments are renowned. (Full disclosure: My company specializes in semantic knowledge graphs.)

        Schema-Free Modeling
      
Whereas modeling in other environments requires frequent recalibrations of schema to include new requirements, data sources or questions about relationships, semantic knowledge graphs utilize standard data models to which all data (regardless of point of origination) adheres. Those models naturally evolve to include new additions, including unexpected relationships found in digital twin data. As long as there are uniform vocabularies and taxonomies to describe those models, they quickly mutate to incorporate new sources of data relationships that inform the performance of digital twin assets.
In other settings, organizations spend exorbitant amounts of time rectifying schema differences while equipment assets may be underperforming or not functioning. Conversely, the flexibility of the semantic graph model of smart data technologies is akin to modeling data in a schema-free environment. It greatly accelerates time to value, which is critical for optimizing digital twin deployments.

        Relationship Savvy
      
Knowledge graphs are necessary for correlating the various data about these assets and surrounding environments because they’re primed for detecting relationships between data. In these repositories, each source of IoT data becomes a node that’s linked to others. Understanding how equipment asset data relates to other IoT data -- perhaps the temperature of its surroundings, the data of nearby assets, etc. -- is essential for a pair of reasons. It forms the basis of the insights digital twins deliver by contextualizing their data in relation to other IoT data for intelligent inferences about performance. This exemplifies the cardinal reason this technology needs knowledge graphs: Relationships frequently manifest in unexpected places. The adaptability of graph models is critical to rapidly adjusting to these new circumstances to capitalize on them at the pace of the IoT.

        Optimizing Assets
      
Although unexpected relationships are prone to occur with operational digital twins -- in which entire production environments are modeled -- they frequently happen with specific assets, too. Knowledge graphs can model the different ways in which individual assets are configured. For example, there may be digital twins of the turbocharger unit and engine in a locomotive. However, because of the environment in which that asset is deployed (perhaps it’s transporting materials across a hot, arid region), operators may add a filtering device between the unit and the engine. Unless organizations quickly incorporate the relationship of the filter’s data with that of the locomotive unit, the data they’re monitoring will become skewed. But with knowledge graphs, they can do so, rapidly accounting for this circumstance or any others to maximize the use of the equipment asset and the digital twin investment.

        Bringing Digital Twins To Life
      
Digital twins also rely on a number of different simulation techniques to furnish their three-dimensional models. Hybrid simulation engines are pivotal for implementing the three-dimensional models of data for IoT assets. Simulation technologies should ideally support discrete event modeling, agent-based modeling and system dynamics. Agent-based modeling encompasses the various things people may or may not do to affect models, while system dynamics deliver overarching umbrellas of the impact of different factors (like those in a supply chain) on one another.

        Practical Implementation 
      
The tremendous scale of the data involved in digital twins is assuaged by the use of big data frameworks such as data lakes. Cloud-based Hadoop distributions are particularly useful for helping accommodate the array of sources that give digital twins business value. These sources not only include the largely semistructured or unstructured data emitted in the IoT, but also typical structured data internal to the enterprise, such as information about supply chain management or other relevant factors. Competitive platforms for Hadoop distributions enable the performance and low cost functionality necessary for practically implementing digital twins in production.

        Maximize Digital Twins’ Potential
      
Although digital twins may provide some functionality with other data modeling techniques, their full potential -- the ability to simulate an entire industrial setting and to accurately predict that setting’s operational needs a month or more in advance -- warrants using a knowledge graph approach. In addition, simulation technologies that support three-dimensional modeling and big data frameworks such as data lakes are also ideal for maximizing the unique value of digital twins.
