
# Read, dance, laugh or play with clay – take a break today

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/read-dance-laugh-or-play-with-clay-take-a-break-today/articleshow/71908981.cms)

Latin love Do you want to try your hand at Salsa? Then walk into this trial class of 45 minutes today or any day this week. There is no age bar – everyone is welcome, and guess what, you don’t need any prior dance experience. The peppy beats of Salsa songs alone will put you in the right mood. At shArA – Salsa & Latin Dance Institute, 5th Block, Jayanagar, from 11am to 11.45pm, till November 10, (entry) `450, eventshigh.com Shape it up Get your hands dirty and let your creativity fly at this pottery workshop. In the first half, you will learn to make articles through multiple hand-building techniques. In the second phase, you will get a chance to sit behind the pottery wheel to create pots, vases and various other things. You can take back these articles after firing. At Mud Effects Pottery Studio, Whitefield Main Road, from 11am to 1.30pm, from November 5 to 15, (fee) `4,900, eventshigh.com Laugh along Comedy Shots is back to lighten up your Tuesday. The show will have upcoming standup comics, trying new material. The line-up includes the chai-loving Shankar Chugani, the confused Somnath Padhy, the calm Joteen Patro, Shamik Chakraborty, who’s a self-proclaimed ‘analogue guy in a digital world’, and the whiney Anand Rathnam. At Bistro Claytopia, Koramangala, from 8pm, on November 5, (entry) `150, insider.in Readers’ digest Introduce your kid(s) to the joy of reading with Booklings, an event designed to make book reading a fun experience. Listen to Peter Pan, enact action words, make words with letter blocks, befriend books... Expect this and more from the event. It’s meant for kids between the age of three and seven. At Enerjuvate, KR Road, Banashankari Stage 2, from 4.30pm to 6.30pm, on November 5, call 9986015483 Behind the scenes Artist Dhanaraj Keezhara is back with his exhibition, Wounded Souls. In this, he has tried to explore the theme of community and marginalisation by depicting the Theyyam ‘Kaliyattam’ festival of Kannur and the Malabar region of Kerala. It aims to challenge people’s assumptions about Theyyam, and to provide a visual experience that is familiar in ritual and tradition, but which gently guides the audience to the hardwork that goes into creating the Kaliyattam. WHERE: ArtVille 711, HRBR Layout, 1st Block WHEN: Opens at 7pm on November 5; on view till November 18 CALL: 41490200 Epic return From the dusty pages of Hindu mythology, comes the fascinating tale of Ila. At different points in time, Ila lives in the physical form of either a woman or a man. This musical retelling of the legend delves into the inner experience of their identity, while outwardly exploring the wonder and the absurdity of it all... the story, the character, as well as our own notions of gender. Catch Ila – A story in song. WHERE: Atta Galatta, KHB Colony, 5th Block Koramangala WHEN: 7pm-8pm, November 5 ENTRY: `250, eventshigh.com Let the Comic Con begin The time has come to turn on the superhero in you. You guessed it right. Bangalore Comic Con 2109 is knocking on your doors. And to build up the mood and unite the fans, the team of Bengaluru Comic Con is launching this year’s edition with a ‘Superhero party’. So, needless to say, you must come dressed in your favourite superhero’s costume. There will be tons of contests, selfie points, rewards and other such engagements to keep you, superheroes and sidekicks, busy. Bangalore Comic Con 2109 is scheduled on November 16 and 17, and will be headlined by international names from the comics and cosplaying fraternity, including Adam Elllis, Amenokitarou (A.K. Wirru) and Warwick Johnson-Cadwell. Visitors will also get a chance to meet and interact with India’s finest comic book publishers, artists and writers such as Sailesh Gopalan (Brown PaperBag), Bhagya Babu (Awkwerrrd), Corporat, Alicia Souza, Abhijeet Kini, Rahil Mohsin, Holy Cow Entertainment, Bulleye Press, Acid Toad and Sumit Kumar (Bakaramax). WHERE: Vapour, 100 Feet Road, HAL 2nd Stage, Indiranagar WHEN: 8pm, 8 November CALL: 9900088194 To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
