
# White supremacist 'who wanted US holy war plotted to blow up synagogue'

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:13:30+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/white-supremacist-who-wanted-holy-20812762)

A white supremacist who supported a racial holy war planned to blow up a synagogue, it is claimed.
Richard Holzer, 27, from Colorado, US, was arrested after he shared an alleged plot with undercover FBI agents, who gave him fake pipe bombs and dynamite.
He is accused of wanting  to plant explosives in one of the state's oldest synagogues, the Temple Emanuel, in Pueblo, near Denver, to show Jewish people 'they were not welcome in his community'.
It is said he intended to carry out the attack on Saturday, however he was arrested on Friday and now faces a 20-year prison sentence if convicted.
Following his arrest, Holzer waived his right to remain silent and admitted to planning to blow up Temple Emanuel synagogue, court documents said.
 
Holzer allegedly sent an unidentified Facebook user a message on July 11 saying he was "getting ready to cap people".
He also showed himself dressed in clothing with white supremacist symbols and holding firearms, including an assault rifle, according to the affidavit.
The suspect later told undercover agents he wanted to use explosives against the Temple Emanuel, after initially raising the idea of using Molotov cocktails, it is claimed.
His also expressed support for a racial holy war, the court documents said.
Holzer visited the synagogue in Pueblo, around 100 miles (160 km) south of Denver, several times.
At one point he sent an undercover agent a video of himself walking around the exterior of the building, prosecutors say.
Anti-Jewish attacks spiked by 37 per cent in the US in 2017, the most recent year for which statistics are available, according to the FBI.
Holzer's arrest came just over a year after 11 people were shot dead in the Pittsburgh synagogue mass shooting - the worst attack on a Jewish community in the United States.
