
# Conor McGregor fined £860 after brutally assaulting man in Dublin pub

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:42:56+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/conor-mcgregor-fined-860-after-17186141)

Conor McGregor has been fined £860 after pleading guilty to assaulting man in a Dublin pub.
McGregor pleaded guilty to assaulting a man in a Dublin pub in April after the declined a shot of the fighter's whiskey.
The UFC star entered a guilty plea at Dublin District Court on Friday after his initial hearing in the morning was adjourned.
The former two-weight UFC champion  has been fined €1,000.
Desmond Keogh in his 50s from south west Dublin had been at the Marble Arch Pub, Benbulben Road, in Drimnagh at about 2.30pm on 6 April when he was attacked by the mixed martial arts (MMA) star.
A file was sent to the Director of Public Prosecutions and the fighter was later served with a summons.
He was forced to appear at Dublin District Court on a common assault assault charge.
 
McGregor who has spent recent weeks travelling the world promoting his Proper 12 whiskey brand, but had to return to Ireland for day-two of his case.
Disclosure or prosecution evidence including CCTV footage had been ordered at his first hearing on October 11 last.
The case was adjourned until today for him to formally indicate if he was pleading guilty or to have a trial date set if the case was contested.
The case was called at 11.07am.
His solicitor Michael Staines told Judge Treasa Kelly that his client is pleading guilty.
 
State solicitor Stephanie Doyle said Mr Keogh has indicated in a signed letter that he did not want to give a victim impact statement, which was his right.
Mr Keogh was not in court.
The defence said the facts could be given by prosecuting officer, Garda Jason O’Carroll, and it was not necessary to see the video evidence.
The court heard McGregor had also apologised and that was accepted by Mr Keogh.
The judge was furnished with a letter from the victim confirming he did not wish to provide a impact statement.
However, the prosecution insisted that the court should see the short piece of footage.
