
# Renovation work has begun on Tipu Sultan’s summer palace, old techniques to be used to preserve its essence

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Reya Mehrotra**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/renovation-work-has-begun-on-tipu-sultans-summer-palace-old-techniques-to-be-used-to-preserve-its-essence/articleshow/71882059.cms)

In two years from now, Tipu Sultan’s summer palace will get its royal touch back. Starting this year, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has started renovation of the summer palace that is known for its Indo-Islamic architecture and was the summer residence of the Mysorean ruler Tipu Sultan. Construction of the palace was begun by Haidar Ali Khan in 1781 and completed by Tipu Sultan in 1791. To restore the plaster and cracks on the walls, ASI has been using lime mortar, that is primarily used in the conservation of existing old buildings or the recreation of new ones on the outer surface of the walls. Experts say this is a traditional method of conservation and that the use of any new technique would take away the essence of the heritage structure. To avoid usage of cement, lime mortar for the restoration is being prepared by mixing lime, water and sand. A number of cracks had developed on the walls of the palace with time and after the construction of KR Market Metro station. However, the renovation work that started with water proofing of the roof earlier this year is being taken up in a phased manner with each phase costing about Rs 60-70 lakh. After this work is over, plastering of the outer walls will begin and after that the inner walls and paintings and the wooden structures in the palace will tended to. ASI has also been thinking of shifting of utilities like toilets and drinking water station from the right side of the palace to the left in the garden area. Dr Shivakant Bajpai, Superintending Archaeologist, ASI, says, “The cracks on the palace walls had to be attended to. We are removing the old plaster from the outer walls and replacing it with lime mortar. We wanted to use traditional methods of conservation and lime mortar is what has been used traditionally. The paint of the structure has also deteriorated with the passage of time and due to sunlight so we want to restore its original colour. Earlier this year, some leakages were observed from the roof and the water proofing work is almost complete now. We have started with the outside first and will take up works inside after that.” He said conservation is a slow and continuous process. “We don’t want to hurry and compromise on quality so the entire process might take up to two years. Once we start the work, several new issues too will surface as it is a very old structure.” The renovation work is being funded by the Central Government. Even inside the structure, ASI plans to take up repair of wooden structures and restoration of paintings. As there were no CCTV cameras or security in the palace till about two years ago, some vandals had scribbled their names on the wall. Officials say vandalism has been brought under control now. The walls of the chambers on the ground floor of the palace that still have names scribbled on them will be repaired by retouching it with paint. Public amenities to be shifted to the garden Once the renovation is over, ASI plans to shift the amenities which are on the right side of the palace as of now, to its left, in the garden to move it away from the main monument. Signages asking people not to touch the walls, not to scribble names, and others will also be installed under the renovation project. ‘Fort in good condition but for a few cracks’ The Tipu Sultan Fort also located close to KR City Market is in a good condition, except for a few harmless cracks, say ASI officials. “The fort is almost intact except for some cracks which are not dangerous. If there’s a chance of collapse or damage, we attend to it as we do not want to disturb the original fabric of the monument,” says an official.
