
# Microsoft Launches Chromium Edge Release Candidate, Brings Intranet Search To Phones

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:45:00+00:00**

Author: **msmash**

Original: [tech.slashdot.org](https://tech.slashdot.org/story/19/11/04/1446234/microsoft-launches-chromium-edge-release-candidate-brings-intranet-search-to-phones)

Microsoft today announced that its new Edge browser based on Google's Chromium open source project has hit release candidate status. From a report: Additionally, the company shared that Chromium Edge will hit general availability in more than 90 languages on January 15, 2020. Microsoft also detailed some new features around Microsoft Search in Bing. While the two announcements might seem disjointed at first, Microsoft is trying to position Edge and Bing as "the browser and search engine for business." [...] Now that Chromium Edge is at the release candidate stage, Microsoft is sharing a little more about how it plans to differentiate the new browser from the many other Chromium-based options. As with its decision to build its own Android phone, Microsoft is tapping Google to give business users unique features on popular consumer platforms. Whether it's hardware or software, Microsoft is obsessed with selling productivity. So that's what Chromium Edge appears destined to be: a business browser. Businesses mainly use Windows, though some also have Macs floating around so Chromium Edge is not just a Windows 10 affair. Microsoft knows the existing version of Edge isn't appealing because it isn't keeping up with the web. But the company also knows Chromium Edge will not convert most existing Chrome users, so it's focusing on the business use case. To do so, Microsoft plans to give Chromium Edge some extra privacy tools and access to corporate information that exists on company intranets. "The irony is that it is easier to find an obscure piece of information on the much larger internet than it is to find a simple document on your company's intranet -- such as a paystub portal, a pet at work policy, or the office location of a fellow employee," Microsoft CVP Yusuf Mehdi laments.
