
# Cops nab 16 wanted felons

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:24:10+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/provincial/cops-nab-16-wanted-felons)

The official said that one of the suspects is an 18-year old male teenager who was arrested for stealing a motorcycle in Sto. Niño, South Cotabato last Saturday.
Corpus said that the attention of the local police was called by a concerned citizen who saw the suspect pushing a Honda XRM motorcycle in front of a gasoline station in Purok San Vicente in Poblacion Sto. Niño around 10:55 a.m. last All Souls’ Day.
Acting on the information, a team of policemen led by Chief Master Sergeant Allan Ortegas and Senior MSgt. Cezar Gonzales rushed to the site and accosted the suspect who turned out to be a resident of Barangay Tamnag in Lutayan, Sultan Kudarat.
Corpus said that the suspect turned out to have stolen the motorbike with plate no. 9174 MO  when it was left unattended by its registered owner Jess Quimsing.
Quimsing reported the theft of his motorbike to the local police.
The other 15 suspects including two most wanted men in South Cotabato were arrested during the recent long weekend.
Corpus said that members of the South Cotabato Police Provincial Office headed by Colonel Joel B. Limson arrested six of the suspects including the no. 3 most wanted man in Lake Sebu and the no. 8 most wanted in Polomolok town.
On the other hand, the Sultan Kudarat PPO under Col. Reynaldo S. Celestino jailed five of the suspects including one wanted for arson and one for theft.
Two others who are wanted for murder and frustrated murder and illegal possession of firearms and ammunition were arrested by operatives of the Cotabato City Police Office headed by Col. Portia B. Manalad.
Corpus said that the arrests were made in line with his order for his men to further step-up their campaign against most wanted persons in the region.
“This is part of our effort to make Soccsksargen region a much safer place to live and do business,” said the official.
