
# Apple iOS 13.2 Starts Causing Serious New iPhone Problems

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/10/31/apple-ios-13-2-problems-multitasking-failure-iphone-11-pro-max-update-iphone-xs-max-xr-upgrade/)

Apple iOS 13.2 may bring super-smart new features, but it’s also a dumpster fire. And, having already broken HomePods, the latest iOS 13 update is now causing serious problems for every model of iPhone. 
Picked up by MacRumors, iOS 13.2 has introduced a bug into background app management which is so extreme it is causing even the new iPhone 11 Pro to crash out apps the moment they are not in use, with Safari particularly badly affected. Reports are flooding in about this and even fansites such as iMore have admitted iOS 13.2 appears to have “broken multitasking”. 
“Major new bugs introduced in iOS 13.2: - background downloads often hang forever and never run - apps get killed in the background so aggressively that iOS effectively doesn’t offer multitasking anymore” tweeted Tumblr CTO Marco Arment 
“I'm used to the camera purging all open apps from memory on my iPhone X, but iOS 13.2 goes above and beyond in killing background tasks. Earlier today, I was switching between a thread in Messages and a recipe in Safari and each app entirely refreshed every time I foregrounded it. This happens all the time throughout the system in iOS 13: Safari can't keep even a single tab open in the background, every app boots from scratch, and using iOS feels like it has regressed to the pre-multitasking days.” - blogged iOS developer Nick Heer

        Apple iOS 13.1.3 Is Causing Some iPhone 11s To FailForbes Gordon Kelly
      
 “Every single app on my iPhone 7 iOS 13.2 gets killed every time I close. No backgrounding. And each tab on Safari when I move to a new one. So frustrating” - source
“For me Safari just stops rendering. Usually just killing it and reopen works. But more and more I have to reboot the phone. Ohh and it is the “cheap” 11pro 512 so what can I expect, right?” - source
“My apps are getting killed as soon as I switched to safari n back, #ios132 #iosbugs” - source
“This happens on my iPad Pro, and it’s the one with 6GB of RAM. Infuriating!!” - source
“Very noticeable in Mail. Messages don’t arrive until I open the app.” - source
“I couldn’t believe it when I started seeing almost all my apps reloading after being in the background, often only for less than a minute. It seriously affects the experience of using an iPhone, especially when using timeline-based apps.” - source
“So who's gonna give this a hashtag? Or am I the only one thinking about this? #memorygate?” - source 
“Twitter is absolutely awash with reports of poor performance, memory management, and multitasking issues” - iMore

        Apple iOS 13 Wireless Charger Concerns Raised For iPhone Users [Updated]Forbes Gordon Kelly
      
And this barely scratches the surface. There are epic Twitter threads with popular YouTubers Austin Evans and DetroitBORG chipping in, reddit posts, Apple Support Community complaints and much more. 
I’ve asked Apple to respond to ‘memory gate’, and I’ll update this post if/when I get a reply. But the big picture is now very clear: iOS 13.2 has already been heavily criticised for ignoring the worst iOS 13 bugs, but it is now creating serious new ones as well which fundamentally impact how your iPhone operates. With several unexplained instances of iPhone failures being recorded as well, iOS 13 is shaping up to be Apple’s most unreliable release in years. 
So, if you’re sitting pretty on the stable haven that is iOS 12, stay where you are. And remember, right now: friends don’t let friends upgrade to iOS 13. 
___

        More On Forbes
      
