
# Saddle up: Taylor Wessing photographic portrait prize 2019 – in pictures

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:00:51+00:00**

Author: **Mee-Lai Stone**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/gallery/2019/nov/07/taylor-wessing-photographic-portrait-prize-in-pictures)


        From a transgender soldier to a young sumo wrestler, this year’s exhibition represents the most exciting portrait photography from around the world. Winners were chosen from 3,700 submissions from 70 countries
      
Pat Martin’s intimate portraits from his series about his late mother, who struggled with addiction issues throughout her life, won top honours at this year’s £15,000 Taylor Wessing photographic portrait prize, presented this week. ‘For most of my life, I misunderstood my mother and witnessed how the world misunderstood her,’ says Martin. ‘Photographing her became a way of looking into a mirror and finding details I never noticed. There were always new ones to discover, and something new to hide …’ An exhibition of this year’s shortlisted works is at the National Portrait Gallery, London, until 16 February
Photograph: Pat Martin
Second prize was awarded to Enda Bowe for his portrait of a young man on Belfast’s Conway Estate. Love’s Fire Song documents youth culture on each side of the city’s ‘peace walls’ , built to separate the unionist and nationalist communities. ‘Belfast is a city segregated and divided,’ says Bowe. ‘The peace walls are even taller in places than the Berlin Wall’
Photograph: Enda Bowe
Garrod Kirkwood was awarded third prize in the competition for his shot of a family on the cusp of a holiday adventure to Whitley Bay beach in North Tyneside. About this cinematic scene of real life in a vintage Ford Cortina, he says: ‘When I was a child, my mother owned a similar car, so it made me think of a time gone by, when life was more simple … who doesn’t want to look at a picture that gives a feeling of happiness?’
Photograph: Garrod Kirkwood
Sumo wrestling is a sport traditionally associated with Japan, but Mongolian wrestlers have won the majority of championship titles over the last two decades. The success stories have made sumo wrestling a path to anticipated fame and glory for young boys in Mongolia – a scene documented by London photographer Catherine Hyland
Photograph: Catherine Hyland
The Smithsonian magazine has estimated that one in four cowboys after the US civil war were African American, but the subculture has been often overlooked. Rory Doyle photographs cowboys and cowgirls in the Mississippi Delta, asking viewers to question what it means to be a cowboy. Here, Dkamyion, left, and Carlos share a horse outside a rodeo in Greenville, Mississippi. See more of Doyle’s images in our gallery
Photograph: Rory Doyle
Chan Marshall, better known by her stage name Cat Power, was photographed last year to mark the release of her 10th studio album, Wanderer. The sitting took place in Phil Sharp’s home studio in north London, while the photographer’s baby daughter, Grey, played nearby. Despite the singer-songwriter serenading her, Grey refused to sit still
Photograph: Phil Sharp
Jouk Oosterhof photographed child brides for Linda magazine and the child right’s organisation Plan International. ‘The wish was to get more attention for child marriage, so we travelled to Bangladesh, where the problem exists on a large scale,’ says the photographer. ‘With their faces hidden to safeguard their identities, the girls’ invisibility and lack of control in their society is also highlighted in this series’
Photograph: Jouk Oosterhof
This image is of the photographer’s mother after she was diagnosed with dementia. ‘My mother and I have lived side by side on the same farm for decades. Our love was mutual and constant. She developed vascular dementia, and so began the flushing away of her emotions and her memory,’ says Cheryle St Onge. Though at first St Onge stopped taking photos of her mother, she eventually began to produce these images ‘as a distraction from watching her fade away, as a counterbalance to conversations with her about death’
Photograph: Cheryle St Onge
Tristan Still’s portraits of Raynen O’Keefe, who uses the gender-neutral pronoun they, document their recent surgery. While working together, Still and O’Keefe discussed the balance of power in being photographed and the subject’s agency in this process. To ensure equality, Still invited O’Keefe to write about being photographed at this important point in their life – a process that revealed the vulnerability, visibility and recognition echoed in Still’s portrait
Photograph: Tristan Still
Amy Touchette’s street portraits bring to life the friends, families and social connections made on city streets, such as the ones she’s taken in New York’s Bedford-Stuyvesant neighbourhood
Photograph: Amy Touchette
Is Australia a lucky place? That’s what Bristol-born Chris Hoare set out to investigate, travelling the country in search of people and situations that revealed the chance operations of good and bad fortune. Here he depicts Alister, sporting a rigid brace after falling down stairs at home
Photograph: Chris Hoare
Sirli Raitma started this series in 2015, when her mother, Eha, began to struggle with depression, as a way to give her a new focus beyond a procession of doctors’ appointments. Raitma found that Eha became more confident and engaged through the shoots, taking increasing pride in her appearance – and often sporting quite artful and colourful outfits
Photograph: Sirli Raitma
In this series, the Russian-born photographer aimed to profile the unique personality of her subject – and challenge perceptions of people with Down’s syndrome. Since completing school, the teenage Sofie spends most days at her family’s farm in Eilenstedt, Germany
Photograph: Snezhana von Buedingen
Photographed as part of a commission for Pride in London, Captain Hannah Graf rose to be the highest-ranking transgender woman in the British army. Since coming out in 2013, she has advised on the army’s transgender policy and in 2019 was awarded an MBE for services to the LGBTQ+ community in the military
Photograph: Seamus Ryan
The spontaneous portrait was taken on the street and explores a complex mix of West African, Muslim, and Western cultural codes shaping youth identity in Dakar, Senegal. In the image, one girl wears a headscarf and her friend’s jumper reads ‘New York City’, while neither pay attention to the cosmetics advertisement which appears on the poster behind them.
Photograph: Jermaine Francis
‘For 35 years,’ says photographer Vikram Kushwah, ‘my father has been a school teacher at a government school in rural Uttar Pradesh, one of the poorest states in India. I had never once been to his school … Only when I told him that I wanted to do a photo story before he retires next year did he begrudgingly arranged a visit.’ The school has no electricity, dirt floors in the classroom and a single ficus tree in the playground, where students and teachers gather to stay cool in the summer heat
Photograph: Vikram Kushwah
