
# Paisley shop worker who had ear chewed off too scared to leave his house

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:25:07+00:00**

Author: **Andrea Lambrou, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/andrea-lambrou/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/paisley-shop-worker-who-ear-20822248)

A Paisley man who had a chunk of his ear chewed off in a horror street attack says he is too scared to leave his house.
Lauchlan Mullen, 38, was left permanently disfigured when he was jumped by a gang of youths outside Corky’s newsagents in Paisley’s Broomlands Street.
Lauchlan, who works at the shop, had refused the underage gang booze and is now scarred for life after one of the vicious thugs bit the top of his ear off.
Speaking to the Express, Lauchlan revealed he is still trying to come to terms with the gruesome injury and is now too afraid to leave his home.
He said: “As the days have gone by I can feel the depression swallowing me up.
“I’m falling into a hole and trying to hold on to the edges.
“You always get drug addicts causing bother at the shop, but never this severe.
“Everyone has been horrified by it, especially my family.”
 
Lauchlan lost one-and-a-half inches off the top of his left ear in the vile assault on Saturday night.
Despite part of his ear being recovered in the street the following morning, it cannot be reattached.
He will now have to undergo three rounds of plastic surgery to try and mend the damage.
Lauchlan added: “I have to go in for my first round of plastic surgery at the Victoria Hospital on Monday.
“Most of the damage is to the back of the ear. It’ll now be left to the plastic surgeons to fix it. They are quite optimistic that they will be able to.
“I was given a tetanus and Hepatitis B jag and still have two more to get.
“I hope to God they didn’t have anything.”
In yesterday’s Express, we told how Corky’s owner Fauzia Mohammed felt physically sick when she saw the blood pouring from Lauchlan’s wound.
He was also spat on, left with a bite mark on his right arm, suffered a black eye and his right shoulder is badly bruised.
The sickening attack was caught on CCTV and police say they are now moving in on the perpetrators, believed to be in their early teens.
Recounting the vile assault – which lasted around five minutes – Lauchlan said: “I’d never seen them before. I don’t think they’re from this area.
"They tried to get a bottle of vodka and when I told them to come back with ID, the boy who attacked me started arguing with me saying ‘What the f**k’s it got to do with you’.
“They were all three sheets to the wind and probably on drugs.
“Then four or five of them were round me at the one time.
“I knew he was biting into my ear but I didn’t know he’d bitten it off.
“After it happened I was still in shock. I’m now feeling depressed and locking myself away. I’m afraid to go out.”
Despite feeling anger towards the animal who did it, Lauchlan showed compassion for his assailants, adding: “I don’t wish them any jail time, I just hope they realise what they have done and are remorseful.”
Saturday’s attack happened around 8.40pm and the male involved is described as 5ft 7ins tall and was wearing dark clothes and possibly gloves.
The female has shoulder-length dark hair and was also wearing dark clothing
Anyone with information should call police on 101.
