
# Mum smacks daughter, 8, with a belt because she didn't do her homework 'properly'

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:57:34+00:00**

Author: **Neil Murphy**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/mum-smacks-daughter-8-belt-20787069)

A Chinese mother has admitted to smacking her eight-year-old daughter with a belt because she didn't do her homework 'properly'.
The unnamed woman, who lives in Queensland, Australia, defended her actions by saying that the practice was acceptable in her home country.
She carried out the cruel punishment because her daughter was not completing her homework assignments correctly.
The girl has since been taken out of her care after child protection services became involved, reports the Queensland Times .
The mother pleaded guilty in Ipswich Magistrates Court to assaulting a child when armed with an instrument, causing bodily harm.
Defence lawyer Matthew Fairclough told the court that the child alleged she had been treated inappropriately.
"Child Safety took a view of the matter that the children should not remain in her care," he said.
"Her husband is here with her (in the courtroom). It has proven to be quite troubling for the family.
"It has been a significant wake-up call for both parents."
Mr Fairclough said the mother wanted to resume her role as a parent and has taken part in a parenting program. 
Magistrate Virginia Sturgess said parents should not beat their children under any circumstances, branding the practice "unacceptable".
The mother was sentenced to a supervised nine-month probation order.
