
# Essex lorry deaths: All 39 migrants found dead were Vietnamese nationals, police say

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:41:08+00:00**

Author: **Danya Bazaraa, Jilly Beattie, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/danya-bazaraa/, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jilly-beattie/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-essex-lorry-deaths-39-20791411)

The 39 migrants found dead in the back of a lorry in Essex are believed to be Vietnamese nationals, Essex Police has confirmed.
Assistant Chief Constable Tim Smith, the officer in charge of the investigation, has released a statement this evening urging anyone with information to come forward and help provide answers for the 39 grieving families.
He said Essex Police are in contact with the Vietnamese Government and believe they have identified families for some of the victims.
Last week the bodies of 39 migrants were found in a refrigeration container on an industrial estate in Grays, Essex.
The full statement from Constable Smith released tonight reads: "Essex Police is continuing to work closely with HM Senior Coroner and the National Crime Agency to progress the investigation and help identify the victims.
"At this time, we believe the victims are Vietnamese nationals, and we are in contact with the Vietnamese Government.
"We are in direct contact with a number of families in Vietnam and the UK, and we believe we have identified families for some of the victims whose journey ended in tragedy on our shores.
"The confirmatory evidence needed to formally present cases to HM Senior Coroner for her consideration has not yet been obtained.
"This evidence is being gathered across a number of jurisdictions worldwide. As a result, we cannot at this time announce the identity of any of the victims.
"We will continue to co-operate closely with the Vietnamese Government, and others, to identify the victims and offer our support to all those affected by this tragedy.
"From the outset, our thoughts have been and remain with those who have lost loved ones in this tragic incident."
The statement continues: "I would like to continue to appeal to anyone who has information that may assist us in our process to identify the victims to please contact Essex Police.
"Details of how you can pass information can be found at mipp.police.uk where there are also details on how to contact us translated in to Vietnamese.
"We have specially trained people, supported by Vietnamese interpreters, answering our dedicated hotline between 9am to midnight, seven days a week on 0800 056 0944 if you live in the UK and 0044 207 158 0010 if you’re dialling internationally.
"Please come forward and help us to provide answers to the 39 people’s families."
The Vietnamese Embassy in London said it sent its "heartfelt condolences" to the families of the victims.
"The embassy was deeply saddened at the initial findings by the Essex Police that among the victims who lost their lives in the lorry on 23rd October 2019 in Essex, UK, may be Vietnamese nationals," the embassy said in a statement.
"Specific identities of the victims still need to be identified and confirmed by the relevant authorities of Vietnam and UK.
"We would like to convey our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims.
"The Embassy of Vietnam in London will closely co-ordinate with the relevant authorities of Vietnam and UK to support the families of the Vietnamese victims, if any, to bring their loved ones home."
This morning, Mirror Online reported that a man has been charged with 39 counts of manslaughter over the deaths of dozens of migrants found in a container in Essex.
Essex Police allege he delivered the trailer to the Belgian port of Zeebrugge before its onward journey to Britain.
Eamon Harrison, 23, from Mayobridge, appeared before Mr Justice Donald Binchy in Dublin High Court today.
It follows the endorsement of a European Arrest Warrant for Harrison yesterday, reports Belfast Live.
The court heard that Harrison was arrested in the holdings cells of the Criminal Courts of Justice in Dublin this morning.
Harrison faces a total of 41 charges, the court was told, 39 manslaughter charges, conspiracy to commit a human trafficking and conspiracy to assist unlawful immigration.
Extradition proceedings to bring Eamonn Harrison to the UK from Ireland to face manslaughter and human trafficking charges over the 39 lorry trailer deaths in Grays, Essex, have begun.
A statement said: "A European Arrest Warrant has been executed in Dublin today, Friday 1 November, in connection with the Essex Police investigation in to the deaths of 39 people who were found in a lorry trailer in Grays last week.
"A 23-year-old man from Northern Ireland, is charged with 39 offences of manslaughter, as well as human trafficking and immigration offences.
"He has appeared before the High Court, Criminal Courts of Justice, Dublin, and remanded in custody. Essex Police has started extradition proceedings to bring him to the UK."
It also emerged today that police in Vietnam have arrested two people and summoned others for questioning in connection with the deaths.
Lorry driver Mo Robinson, 25, from Portadown has been charged with 39 counts of manslaughter, people trafficking and money laundering.
Robinson will appear at the Old Bailey later this month.
Earlier, police appealed directly for two on-the-run brothers, wanted as part of the investigation, to hand themselves in.
Detectives urged Ronan and Christopher Hughes to come forward and hand themselves in to police in Northern Ireland.
Ronan Hughes, 40 and his brother Christopher Hughes, 34 from Armagh, Northern Ireland, are wanted on suspicion of manslaughter and human trafficking in connection with the deaths of 39 people, whose bodies were found in a container in Grays last week.
Speaking in a press conference at Police Service of Northern Ireland Headquarters today in Belfast, Senior Investigating Officer Detective Chief Inspector Daniel Stoten said: "Today I want to make a direct appeal. Ronan and Christopher hand yourself in to police.
"We need you both to come forward and assist us with this investigation."
