
# Could a Post-Swell Ripple Dump Cause XRP To Drop Another 50%?

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:00:08+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/07/could-a-post-swell-ripple-dump-cause-xrp-to-drop-another-50/)

This week kicks off the annual Swell event hosted by Ripple, which gathers together the greatest minds and influencers from the crypto and general finance space under one roof to talk about the future of fintech.
Each year, the conference causes a pump leading up to it, but later dumps following Swell in a “buy the rumor, sell the news” type selloff. One crypto analyst believes that if the dump gets severe enough, it could cause another 50% drop in XRP price.
Back in 2017, Ripple first began its annual Swell conference where it has hosted big names like former United States President Bill Clinton, former Fed Chairman Dr. Ben Bernanke, and Sir Tim Berners-Lee, regarded as the inventor of the world wide web.
The surge in interest around the company and their native cryptocurrency, XRP, and the expectation of hot industry news breaking during the event, often leads to a pre-event pump, driving up the price of XRP.

        
          Related Reading | Will Upcoming Ripple Conference Cause XRP Price to Swell?
        
      
Even this year, Ripple had fallen to a new low of $0.24 cents per XRP token, and as the Swell conference inched closer and closer, the crypto asset rebounded back to $0.30 where it is currently trading.
But now that the event itself is underway, investors may be preparing to “sell the news” and dump any XRP bought in anticipation of a more significant pump. And if the dump gets severe enough, according to one crypto analyst, it could push XRP below current support, resulting in another 50% drop from current levels.
