
# Fracking ban and England rugby heroes

Published at: **2019-11-02T05:01:55+00:00**

Author: **BBC News**

Original: [BBC News](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/blogs-the-papers-50270831)


        There is a consensus in the papers that Nigel Farage's warning that his Brexit Party will stand in every seat unless Boris Johnson scraps his Brexit deal is not good news for the Conservatives.
      
The Financial Times calls it a significant blow to Mr Johnson's hopes of winning a parliamentary majority.
The Times thinks it risks splitting the Leave vote, making the prime minister's electoral challenge more difficult.
The Daily Mail says the Tories have gone to war with Mr Farage after he threatened to wreck their election hopes.
In its editorial, the paper feels he has overreached - and urges Mr Farage and his hardliners to dilute their ideological purity and embrace pragmatism.
The Daily Express takes up the theme, saying the Brexit Party leader has won his place in history, but his time is up.
The Sun calls on Mr Farage and his voters to think again, because his stance is far more likely to prevent Mr Johnson winning the majority which is vital to delivering Brexit.
The Daily Mirror accuses him of indulging in a cheap publicity stunt that could spell trouble for both Labour and the Conservatives.
But, writing in the Daily Telegraph, Mr Farage defends his approach, saying that if his party is the only one willing to stand up for a proper Brexit, then so be it.
The Daily Telegraph focuses on the general election campaign, saying the Tories are preparing to launch a manifesto that will commit them to tax cuts.
Elsewhere, the columnist and former Conservative MP, Matthew Parris, uses his weekly column in the Times to announce that he is leaving the Conservative party after 50 years.
He says he finds himself unwilling to support a leader who - he says - is a stranger to honesty or principle, and who surfs a foolish populist wave for the sake of ambition alone.
The time has arrived, he argues, to give up hoping for a return to Tory sanity, saying although he is not a Liberal Democrat, he will unhesitatingly vote for them on 12 December to "defeat Tory zealotry over Europe".
After Twitter's decision to ban all paid for political advertising, the Financial Times believes online political advertising is in urgent need of regulation and requires further investigation.
With the general election under way here and the US Presidential election a year away, the FT concludes the stakes are exceptionally high.
The Guardian expresses concern that Facebook's power over what users see gives it potential for immense influence on politics. The paper suggests that forcing Facebook to reveal where parties are spending campaign cash and enforcing constituency spending limits would be a start.

        Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning
      
The papers also focus on the government's announcement that fracking will be banned.
The i sees the decision as a U-turn and a huge victory for green campaigners.
The Times says the Conservatives are seeking to neutralise Labour attacks on their environmental record.
The Guardian believes it's a blow to companies that had been hoping to capitalise on what has been one of the new frontiers in the fossil fuel industry.
And finally, there's much excitement about the Rugby World Cup final.
The Daily Mirror suggests England, who meet South Africa on Saturday, stand on the brink of sporting immortality.
The Times suggests an England victory would lift the nation's spirits at a time when it needs a distraction.
The Telegraph has a 16-page pull out. But, with the game due to start at 09:00 GMT, the paper's readers might be pushed to read it all in time.
