
# Gay Byrne has died at age 85

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:44:00+00:00**

Author: **Digital Staff**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/republicofirelandnews/2019/11/04/news/gay-byrne-has-died-at-age-85-1756227/)

Gay Bryne, veteran broadcaster and original host of the Late Late Show, has died at the age of 85.
The respected RTÉ figure had been ill for some time after being diagnosed with prostate cancer and he died at home today.
In a statement, his family said: "It is with sadness that Kathleen, Crona and Suzy wish to announce that their beloved Gay has died peacefully at home today, surrounded by his family.
"We wish to thank everybody for their love and support during Gay's illness. Particularly the wonderful teams in the Mater Hospital, St Francis Hospice and the Irish Cancer Society".
President Michael D Higgins has paid tribute to the "legendary broadcaster".
"A man of great charisma, Gay Byrne was someone who exuded warmth and presence, who was possessed of effortless wit, charm and who had a flair for broadcasting. This was combined with an innate gentleness as a person, professionalism and humour.
"Through his work in radio and on television he challenged Irish society, and shone a light not only on the bright but also the dark sides of Irish life. In doing so, he became one of the most familiar and distinctive voices of our times, helping shape our conscience, our self-image, and our idea of who we might be.  
"Beyond compassion, which he had in abundance, he had a sense of what was just." 
