
# Despite Lack Of Home-Field Advantage, LA Chargers Have No Interest In Moving Back To San Diego

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jay Paris**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jayparis/2019/11/03/la-chargers-chances-of-moving-back-to-san-diego-slim-and-none/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2797223627&utm_campaign=sprinklrSportsMoneyTwitter)

One Los Angeles Chargers fan threw up his hands and stated the obvious."I'm surrounded by cheese!'' he said.
That he was with the Green Bay Packers in town. That meant thousands of their loyal Cheeseheads were in full throat on Sunday as the Chargers beat the Packers, 26-11.
Chargers backers, again, were outnumbered at a home game in a scene that has been repeated since the team returned to L.A.
Something else that's predictable: the national stories about what a disaster the relocation from San Diego to L.A. has been for the Chargers.
Or how the NFL will force the Spanos family to liquidate the team and return to America's Finest City. Or how owner Dean Spanos committed a huge business blunder by leaving his reliable patrons of nearly six decades for the fickle fans of L.A., the ones that arrive late and exit early.
To all those questions, here's the resounding answer from a Chargers executive in-the-know. Any thoughts of the Chargers setting up shop again in their old stomping grounds are all wet.
"We have a better chance of playing in the swimming pool in the backyard at my house than we do in returning to San Diego,'' said Fred Maas, the Chargers' chief of staff, who oversees day-to-day business functions for the organization.
Maas once worked for San Diego Centre City Development Corporation which orchestrated the redevelopment of the downtown region. In 2016, he joined the Chargers to spearhead negotiations with the city to strike a deal to keep the squad in San Diego.
He's had a seat at the table when the Chargers were looking at a downtown San Diego site, or one in Mission Valley or any of the other roughly 12 locales in San Diego County. They were the places that all looked spiffy in splashy artist renderings, but weren't worth the paper they were printed on.
"I said back in 2016 that the worst deal in Los Angeles is better than the best deal in San Diego,'' Maas said, not mincing any words. "That statement, that fact, is still true today.''
Sunday was another day in which the Chargers backers were outmatched in the stands, with jerseys of Bart Starr, Aaron Rodgers, Clay Matthews and even Paul Hornung eclipsing the gear that honored Chargers players, past and present.
Maybe that was because tickets were going for about $400 on the secondary market. Chargers season-ticket holders cashed in on the thousands of Packers boosters living in the land of sun balm instead of bratwurst.
The Chargers faithful were heard. But it couldn’t quite match the "Go Pack Go" chant that reverberated around Dignity Health Sports Park, with the colors of yellow and green evident.
But the green that really counts is the potential cash headed to the Chargers in their long-term investment bet by moving. In that regard, Maas said the Chargers have "hit a home run.''
"We went from a market in San Diego with four million people to a market that has 13-15 million people,'' he said. "And of that figure, four million are football fans. So I don't think how many visiting fans are at our games should be a measuring stick.''
Instead the Chargers point to a data base that they've accumulated of nearly 800,000 L.A. area football followers. They mention selling out their season tickets, albeit in a facility which seats about 27,000, in all three of their seasons. They mention the nearly 20,000 people clogging the Santa Monica Pier for last spring's draft party.
Have there been missteps along the way? Maas doesn't discount that. But he couldn't stress any clearer that if San Diego gets another NFL team, while that would be swell, it won't be the Chargers.
"This is not a sprint, it's a marathon,'' Maas said of the Chargers planting their flag in the crowded L.A. sports landscape. "We knew we couldn't parachute into L.A. and have the fans immediately fall in love with you.
"It takes time for them to get to know us, know our players and for us to become familiar faces in the community. I think that is the perspective you have to have.''
So even if the visuals aren't money, the Chargers' decision to flee San Diego is.
"We didn't leave San Diego,'' Maas said. "We got kicked out.''
One Chargers fan is happy they're some 100 miles north.
"I love it that they are here,'' said Burbank's Sean Perez, a Chargers season-ticket holder since 2005. "For an NFL experience, you can't beat this.''
Perez won't bang the drum that the team should be back in San Diego.
"San Diego fans didn't want to pay the money, just like St. Louis fans didn't want to,'' he said. "And if that happens that usually means someone else will.''
And if Perez is elbowed by fans wearing the opposing teams' colors, so be it.
"It's L.A.,'' he said. "Everyone wants to be here and everyone is from somewhere else: Wisconsin, Colorado, just go down the line.''
Perez's buddy from Long Beach couldn't disagree more. Juan Nodal grew up in San Diego and was once a ball boy who ran out of the stadium tunnel with Dan Fouts.
"My preference is that they were still in San Diego because that is where they need to be,'' he said. "I think at some point the NFL is going to force (Spanos) to sell the team and go back.''
They are reports that the Chargers have sold just $100 million in personal seat licenses for season tickets in the new SoFi Stadium. It was once speculated that they would contribute $400 million in sales.
"It's going to be embarrassing for the NFL to have parts of the new stadium tarped off,'' Nodal said.
But Maas wouldn't concede that advance sales aren't up to snuff, while declining to reveal hard numbers of how many season tickets the team has sold for next year. 
If nothing else, the Chargers ducats are significantly more affordable than the ones being peddled by the Rams.
So while the Chargers struggle to currently get their fans in the building, their doors will remain open in L.A. They'll move into a $5 billion venue next year with the Rams, which Maas expects to nudge the needle in his team's direction.
"It's going to be enormous,'' he said. "It will be a signature for us and greater Los Angeles. You can't really fathom what it is going be. It's a building the likes of which no one has ever seen.
"People are going to look back five years from now and say Dean was the smartest owner in the NFL to move into this stadium with the favorable economic conditions that give us the running room to do other things.''
It’s believed the Chargers have a 20-year lease at $1 per year, plus four five-year options to extend the agreement.
Those terms are among the factors to prevent the Chargers from skedaddling back to San Diego. 
There's also little reason, in their eyes, to be in the nation's No. 28 media market instead of one ranked No. 2, or gallop to a city without a stadium from one where an NFL palace is rising where Hollywood Park once stood.
They’re also obligated to pay a $650 million relocation fee to the other NFL owners and they have borrowed $200 million from the NFL G4 loan program.
The Chargers, whose value increased 11 percent to $2.5 billion in the last year according to Forbes, are also slated to receive a 18.75 percent cut from the reported $30 million annual payment from a 20-year deal for the naming rights sold to Social Finance.
Plus they’re partners in attractive sponsorship deals cemented with American Airlines and Pepsi to lessen the Chargers’ motivation to chuck it all away and come back to San Diego.
Rome wasn't built in a day and the same holds true for accumulating a legion of Chargers fans in L.A.
Still ...
"It's clear we made the right decision,'' Maas said. "It might not be moving as fast as we want but we are on track.''
What’s as clear as the Chargers’ stout defense in shutting down Rodgers is that on the team's long road to respectability in the entertainment capital of the world, there's one thought they're not entertaining: returning to San Diego.
"It's not happening by any stretch of the imagination,'' Maas said. "There is no opportunity out there that would make that happen.''
