
# Jermaine Jenas claims player uncertainty is costing Tottenham after poor management

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:36:03+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jermaine-jenas-claims-player-uncertainty-20823866)

Jermaine Jenas feels that the uncertainty over the future of key stars is hampering Tottenham ’s season.
Jan Vertonghen, Christian Eriksen and Toby Alderweireld are all out of contract next summer, and can enter pre-negotiations with other clubs from January.
All three players have come in for some form of criticism due to Spurs’s poor start to the campaign, but Jenas believes it is only natural for the situation to be affecting them.
“I know Jan and Toby very well,” Jenas said. "Christian, I’ve got a good scope of his personality.
“They are not the type of players who would step onto the pitch and not want to try.
“I don’t think it’s that they’re not trying, just uncertainty, that has made them think, ‘if you don’t want me then what am I doing here? Let’s make a decision so I can focus on the future or I can move on.’"
Eriksen looked to be on his way out of Tottenham during the summer, having previously signalled his desire to join Real Madrid , but a move never materialised.
Spurs are now in the compromising position of potentially losing Eriksen for nothing, although Jenas thinks there is little more either party could have done.
“I think the club were happy to let him leave but they just didn’t get the figure that they wanted or Christian didn’t get the club that he wanted.
“If I was Eriksen and the bid didn’t come in that I wanted to come in, I would sit tight, I wouldn’t rush.
“Not only can I move for free in the summer, but that brings in Bayern Munich, Real Madrid, all the big hitters, Man Utd, even Liverpool .
"On top of that you have the huge windfall of wages.”
However Jenas was critical of the club’s “poor management” in dealing with Vertonghen and Alderweireld.
"It’s surprised me that they’ve let them get to the position that they are. I thought they would have at least secured one of them," he added.
"We’re essentially going to lose them both for free. It's poor management.
“Altogether it’s culminated in poor performances and possibly them missing out on Champions League football this year.
“With regards to the club they’re looking at about a quarter of a billion pound they’ll need to reinvest into the team to stand any chance of staying where they want to be if they let those three players walk out.”
