
# Thrifty mum saves THOUSANDS on renovations to former council house by bagging freebies

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:25:48+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/Fabulous/**

Original: [The Sun](https://www.thesun.co.uk/fabulous/10265988/thrifty-mum-saves-thousands-renovations-council-house-freebies/)


        A THRIFTY mum has saved thousands on renovations to her former council house - by bagging freebies online.
      
Rebecca Compton, 27, uses websites like Freegle, Freecycle, Freelywheely and Facebook Marketplace to update her home - with brand new carpets, wallpaper and home decor.
The mum-of-two rents her home in Walsall, Birmingham, but says her landlord is "really understanding" about her desire to update the property.
Rebecca told the Mirror: "At the time of moving in, I got a few bits from friends and family, we bought a new bed and sofa – but we had no actual flooring.
"On our shoe-string budget, we had to think outside of the box."
Rebecca was already pregnant when she moved in with her partner five years ago and is now a full-time mum to two boys.
She added: "Once you sign up to the freebie websites, they’ll start sending you alerts every morning. Go on there each day to see what’s been listed – everything is free."
If you're after something specific, Rebecca recommends putting a request on the sites, as others are often keen to get rid of bulky items like wardrobes.
Saving money isn't the only benefit, it's greener to pick up unwanted furniture second-hand too.
Rebecca believes you can get absolutely everything you need for free, as long as you're prepared to wait.
She recommends using samples from hardware shops like B&Q for upcycling tables, beds and even her mantlepiece - which she also got for free.
Thrifty Rebecca transformed her son's bedroom into a superhero paradise for just £60 and her bathroom for £50 (with £40 of that being spent on flooring).
She also transformed her kitchen worktops and cupboards for just £25, and taught herself how to change carpets after bagging yet another freebie - saving £200 on the fitting alone.
Earlier today, we reported on a mum who created an incredible hang-out space for her son using a £24 teepee from eBay - pimped with lights, pom poms and homemade quilt.
