
# Hartley On Getting Candid, Dreaming Big And How Music Can Empower Us

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:00:46+00:00**

Author: **Jack Tregoning**

Original: [Junkee](https://junkee.com/hartley-interview-own/227284)

Like many turning points in life, Hartley‘s powerful new single, ‘Own’, started with “an emotional shower moment”.
Determined to capture her journey to self-acceptance in a song, the Brisbane-based producer and singer seized on that emotion and started writing. Soon she was pouring herself into the verses and tinkering with production ideas. Two years later, Hartley’s in-shower inspiration has bloomed into her “self-empowerment anthem”.
‘Own’ is the kind of song Hartley always imagined herself making, pairing a strong message with highly-polished production. Hartley’s own mental health struggles guided her to the theme of loving yourself above all else. As she sings with passion in the first verse, “Did you think I need another body/ To make me feel like I’m somebody?”
With her hard-won affirmation of self-worth, Hartley joins an accomplished field of women currently redefining pop music. With ‘OWN’, she’s following in the example of empowerment advocates like Lizzo, Charli XCX, Lorde and BANKS. It’s BANKS in particular who inspired Hartley to be fearless: “She makes it look so effortless to talk deeply about herself.”
Hartley’s evolution to this moment began with a period of stubborn doubt. After self-producing an original song called ‘Used To’ in her Brisbane bedroom, she very nearly didn’t upload it to triple j Unearthed. Finally, after a whole lot of painful second-guessing, Hartley took the plunge. That drum & bass-inflected indie-pop tune caught the ear of Warner Music’s A&R, and before long the neon-haired newcomer had a record label behind her.
After working in the studio with in-demand producer and mixer Cassian, Hartley re-released ‘Used To’ on Warner Music. She followed it quickly with the fizzing, heartfelt ‘Mind’, before stepping into a new phase with ‘Own’.
Junkee catches up with Hartley from the label’s Sydney office. It’s “release day” for ‘Own’, and the usual nerves are this time outweighed by excitement. “I haven’t really celebrated yet,” she admits. “This morning I’ve been in a hotel room by myself, and it’s been surreal.”
Speaking with infectious enthusiasm about her newly-widened horizons, Hartley has a lot to share about finding self-love through music.

        How did ‘Own’ first start out?
      
I started writing ‘Own’ a couple of years ago, actually. I started discovering my self-worth and the ways I deserved to be treated. So it was a really significant change for me and my mental health.
I was also finding my place in the music industry and its social circles, so writing those lyrics was all about forcing myself to have my own back and believe that I didn’t need anyone else’s approval.
Now that it’s two years later, I truly believe those lyrics. There has been a huge change in me since that time, so it’s a cool time to release it.
