
# Revenge reboot in the works - with fan favourite from original series to return

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:08:55+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/revenge-reboot-works-fan-favourite-20835426)

Calling all Revenge fans! One of your favourite characters might soon be back on your television screen.
According to reports, the hit American drama show is set to get a reboot at ABC Studios with the show's original crator, Mike Kelley on board.
The network is reportedly working on a follow-up to the series, which saw Emily VanCamp star as Emily Thorne/Amanda Clarke, a young woman who moves to the Hamptons seeking revenge for her father's false imprisonment.
The gripping series ran for four seasons from 2011 to 2015 and also starred Madeleine Stowe, Gabriel Mann, Nick Wechsler and Josh Bowman.
 
Not much is known about the reboot, except that it is set to focus around a Latinx lead character and a fan favourite from the original is likely to reprise their role.
Deadline reports: "Revenge chronicles the story of a young Latinx immigrant.
"Guided by one of the original series' favourite characters, she arrives in Malibu to exact revenge on a Sackler-esque pharmaceutical dynasty, whose insatiable greed lead to the murder of her biochemist mother, the destruction of her family and a global epedemic."
The "guiding" character is yet to be named, but fans will likely be hoping to see tech genius Nolan Ross (Mann) return or possibly his wealthy pal Louise Ellis (Elena Satine).
 
People on Twitter had mixed feelings about the reboot.
Some were excited by the prospect.
"I miss Emily Thorne and her revengenda every day. So excited about this potential #Revenge reboot news, as long as @EmilyVanCamp makes an appearance," wrote one person.
Another simply proclaimed: "REVENGE REBOOT OMG."
However others didn't see the point in it.
"For goodness sake it feels like that just finished last week," said someone else. "These reboots are getting ridiculous."
A different person replied: "How about instead of a reboot y'all just give us the Nolan spinoff we should've gotten in the first place."
A third added: "Please don't reboot Revenge. Y'all not gonna top Miss Emily Thorne/Amanda Clarke."
