
# November 2: Time Out: Sporting greats, Dates and a Quick Quiz blitz...

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **The Irish News Archive and PA**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/2019/11/02/news/november-2-time-out-sporting-greats-dates-and-a-quick-quiz-blitz--1754518/)

BACK IN THE DAY
The Irish News, November 2 2009: Hurling/Shinty International: Scotland 1-8 Ireland 1-11
Ulster players were among those to the fore as Ireland captured a triple title haul after hurling-shinty international wins on Saturday, with the seniors, U21s and camogie sides all emerging victorious.
In what was the first year ever for Ireland to do a clean sweep of wins, all three visiting teams to Inverness at the weekend gave huge dedication to their respective game.
Led by Kilkenny’s Hurler of the Year Tommy Walsh, the seniors withstood six gruelling minutes of injury-time, as his team-mate Shane Dooley snatched a goal four minutes into added-time which pushed Ireland to a 1-11 to 1-8 victory.
In a side managed by Shane’s dad, Joe, with Down’s Jim McKernan and Kevin Ryan of Carlow as selectors, Down’s Gareth ‘Magic’ Johnston, Armagh’s Paul McCormack and Johnny McIntosh of Antrim were among those who gave excellent displays.
BIRTHDAYS
Ken Rosewall (tennis) - Australian who won eight grand slam singles titles, born 1934.
Derek Mountfield (soccer) - former Everton and Aston Villa defender, born 1962.
Dario Silva (soccer) - former Malaga, Portsmouth and Uruguay striker, born 1972.
Orlando Cabrera (baseball) - former World Series-winning shortstop with the Boston Red Sox, born 1974.
Danny Cipriani (rugby union) - England and Gloucester fly-half, born in 1987.
Stevan Jovetic (soccer) - Montenegro and former Manchester City striker, currently at Monaco, born 1989.
QUICK QUIZ
1. Who is the manager of the St Enda’s hurlers?
2. Who scored Naomh Conaill’s winning point in their third meeting with Gaoth Dobhair?
3. Which side is currently bottom of English League Two?
4. With which professional club did Chelsea manager Frank Lampard last play?
5. Who is the captain of the Crossmaglen footballers?
(See quiz answers below)
ON THIS DAY
1947: The United States defeated Great Britain 11-1 in the seventh Ryder Cup at Portland Golf Club.
1998: Former Great Britain Davis Cup captain David Lloyd sold struggling Division Three club Hull to a Sheffield-based consortium.
2003: Tim Henman beat Romania's Andrei Pavel to win the Paris Masters - the only Masters Series title of his career.
2006: New Zealand were stripped of the two Gillette Tri-Nations points earned in the 18-14 win over Great Britain after it emerged that hooker Nathan Fien was not eligible to play for them.
2007: McLaren confirmed two-time world champion Fernando Alonso would be leaving their Formula One team. After spells at Renault and Ferrari, the Spaniard returned to McLaren for the 2015 season.
2008: Michael Lyng scored the only goal of the game as Cavan Gaels defeated St Gall’s at Casement Park.
2009: AC Milan confirmed the loan signing of England midfielder David Beckham from the Los Angeles Galaxy for a second time.
2010: Tottenham beat Inter Milan 3-1 at White Hart Lane in the Champions League, with Gareth Bale playing a starring role and goals coming from Rafael van der Vaart, Peter Crouch and Roman Pavlyuchenko.
2014: Ronan O’Neill was to the fore as Omagh dumped Crossmaglen out of the Ulster Club Championship.
2015: Remi Garde was announced as Aston Villa's new manager. He lasted 23 games and oversaw just three wins.
2016: Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho was given a one-match touchline ban and fined a total of £58,000 by the Football Association over comments made about a referee and match official.
2017: Swansea striker Tammy Abraham, Crystal Palace midfielder Ruben Loftus-Cheek and Liverpool defender Joe Gomez received their first senior England call-ups in friendlies against Germany and Brazil.
SPORT ON TV
Today (Saturday, November 2)
GAELIC GAMES: Ulster Club SFC, Crossmaglen v Clontibret - BBC Sport NI – 1900.
SOCCER: Premier League, Bournemouth v Manchester United - BT Sport 1 1200, Watford v Chelsea - Sky Sports Main Event, Sky Sports Premier League 1700; Championship, Wigan v Swansea - Sky Sports Main Event 1200; Betfred Cup, Hibernian v Celtic - BT Sport 1 1700; Bundesliga, Union Berlin v Hertha Berlin - BT Sport 2 1715; A-League, Western Sydney v Brisbane Roar - BT Sport 1 0600, Melbourne Victory v Western United - BT Sport 2 0830, Melbourne City v Wellington Phoenix - BT Sport/ESPN 0500 (Sun).
RUGBY UNION: World Cup final, England v South Africa - ITV 0800, eir Sport 1 0800, S4C 0815; Gallagher Premiership, Leicester v Gloucester - BT Sport 2 1430; PRO14, Scarlets v Cheetahs - eir Sport 1 1455, Cardiff Blues v Munster - eir Sport 1 1930.
CRICKET: T20 International, New Zealand v England - Sky Sports Main Event/Sky Sports Cricket 0030 (Sun); Women's Big Bash League - Perth Scorchers v Melbourne Stars - BT Sport/ESPN 0745.
GOLF: WGC, HSBC Champions - Sky Sports Main Event 0600 & 0500 (Sun), Sky Sports Golf 0600 & 0230 (Sun); PGA Tour, Bermuda Championship - Sky Sports Golf 1730.
MOTORSPORT: F1, United States Grand Prix practice and qualifying - Sky Sports F1 1745 & 2055.
DARTS: PDC, World Series - ITV4 1900.
SNOOKER: World Open - Eurosport 1 1125.
BOXING: Fight Night including Katie Taylor v Christina Linardatou - Sky Sports Action 1900, Sky Sports Main Event 2030.
UFC: UFC 244 including Jorge Masvidal v Nate Diaz - BT Sport 1 2330.
HOCKEY: Great Britain women v Chile - BT Sport/ESPN 1400, Great Britain men v Malaysia - BT Sport/ESPN 1630.
HORSE RACING: Wetherby - ITV4 1300; Breeders' Cup - Eurosport 2 1135.
BASKETBALL: NBA, Oklahoma City Thunder v New Orleans Pelicans - Sky Sports Arena 2100.
Tomorrow (Sunday, November 3)
GAELIC GAMES – Dublin SFC, Ballyboden v Thomas Davis – TG4 1430; Tipperary SHC, Borris-Ileagh v Kiladanagan (deferred) – TG4, 1740.
SOCCER: Premier League, Crystal Palace v Leicester - Sky Sports Premier League 1300, Sky Sports Main Event 1400, Everton v Tottenham - Sky Sports Main Event, Sky Sports Premier League 1600; Championship, Charlton v Preston - Sky Sports Main Event 1130; Betfred Cup, Rangers v Hearts - BT Sport 1 1430; Ligue 1, St Etienne v Monaco - BT Sport 1 1945; Bundesliga, Fortuna Dusseldorf v Cologne - BT Sport/ESPN 1430, Augsburg v Schalke - BT Sport/ESPN 1700; Bundesliga 2, Stuttgart v Dynamo Dresden - BT Sport/ESPN 1230; A-League, Perth Glory v Central Coast Mariners - BT Sport/ESPN 0700.
RUGBY UNION: Gallagher Premiership, Worcester v Exeter - BT Sport 2 1430.
GOLF: WGC, HSBC Champions - Sky Sports Main Event, Sky Sports Golf 0600; PGA Tour, Bermuda Championship - Sky Sports Golf 1730.
MOTORSPORT: F1, United States Grand Prix - Sky Sports F1, Sky Sports Main Event 1905.
DARTS: PDC, World Series - eir Sport 1 1245 & 1900, ITV4 1245 & 1900.
SNOOKER: World Open - Eurosport 1 1120.
ATHLETICS: New York Marathon - Eurosport 2 1415.
HOCKEY: Great Britain women v Chile - BT Sport 1 1200, Ireland women v Canada - BT Sport 2 - 1900.
MOTORCYCLING: MotoGP, Malaysia race - BT Sport 2 0630.
BASKETBALL: NBA, Indians Pacers v Chicago Bulls - Sky Sports Arena 2200.
GRIDIRON: NFL, Jacksonville Jaguars v Houston Texans - BBC Two 1400, Sky Sport Action 1700, Sky Sports Main Event 2105.
QUICK QUIZ answers: 1. Terence McNaughton; 2 John O’Malley; 3. Morecambe; 4. New York City FC; 5. Aaron Kernan
