
# EICMA 2019: 2020 Suzuki V-Strom 1050 and 1050 XT revealed

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:16:24+00:00**

Author: **Rohit Paradkar  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/eicma-2019-2020-suzuki-v-strom-1050-and-1050-xt-revealed/)

Proving the rumour-mill right, Suzuki has taken the wraps off their new flagship adventure bike - the V-Strom 1050 and the V-Strom 1050 XT. The new V-Strom builds on the success of the V-Strom 1000 and uses the same 1,037cc V-Twin engine, albeit with a higher output of 107PS and 100Nm. The updated engine is Euro 5 compliant.
As is the norm set by its predecessors, the V-Strom 1050 is available in two variants - a Standard variant that is street focussed with alloy wheels (19-inch front and 17-inch rear), and an adventure friendly XT variant shod with wire-spoke tubeless-tyre compatible wheels in similar sizes, and additional electronic aids. The V-Strom uses similar chassis and suspension components as the V-Strom 1000.
The V-Strom 1050 XT employs a new six-way three-axis Bosch IMU that enables a more refined measurement of yaw, pitch and roll movement along the acceleration and deceleration. Building on that capability, the XT features aids like Hill Hold, slope deceleration control, cornering brake control, and a load-dependent brake force control. The XT also features a cruise control system that can operate between 50-160kmph. Traction control and three-level riding modes are standard on both variants of the V-Strom 1050.
The V-Strom 1050 draws styling inspiration from the yesteryear DR Big/DR-Z, with the large side fenders, a motorsport-inspired red and white signature shade and a squared-off headlamp with vertically stacked lights. The bike also features a split seat with the rider seat adjustable through 20mm. The V-Strom 1050 features fully digital instrumentation, a tool-free adjustable windscreen, and adjustable suspension. We hope that the same design filters down to the V-Strom 650 line as well.
The V-Strom 1050 and V-Strom 1050 XT are likely to make their way to India too, by mid-2020 and we expect the prices to be between Rs 1.5-2 lakh dearer than the V-Strom 1000.
