
# Matheus Pereira transfer plan revealed as Grady Diangana recall fears grow

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Wakefield**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/west-brom-transfer-news-pereira-17212663)

It seems Sporting Lisbon are making plans for life without midfielder Matheus Pereira .
The 23-year-old is spending the season on loan at West Bromwich Albion from the Portuguese outfit, and has been in fine form.
The Brazilian has scored three goals and provided eight assists in 13 Sky Bet Championship appearances for the league leaders this season.
Pereira clearly has a bright future ahead of him, but it appears his parent club are getting ready to part company with the playmaker.
Reports in Portugal claim that Albion will trigger an option to buy Pereira on a permanent deal in January , with Sporting expecting to use the funds to aid their own transfer business.

        
          MORE HERE
        
      
West Brom boss Slaven Bilic has admitted he was not aware of the quality possessed by forward Hal Robson-Kanu .
The 30-year-old has had to settle for a bit-part role under the new Baggies manager so far this season, but has made an impact when called upon.
In his nine Sky Bet Championship appearances so far, the Wales international has scored three goals – an impressive feat given that he’s only had 249 minutes on the pitch. That means he has been hitting the back of the net every 83 minutes.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
Robson-Kanu’s last four outings for Albion have all been as cameo’s off the bench, but he has bagged all three of his goals in that time.
His last strike was Albion’s second goal in the 2-0 win over Stoke City on Monday night, which came from the penalty spot.
Bilic says he is now fully aware of Robson-Kanu’s abilities, but admits he wasn’t prior to becoming Baggies head coach.

        
          MORE HERE
        
      

         
      
West Ham are considering recalling forward Grady Diangana during the January transfer window, according to media reports.
The 21-year-old has impressed while on loan at West Bromwich Albion , bagging four goals and providing five assists already this season.
His performances have certainly caught the eye at parent club, and Sky Sports are now claiming Diangana could return to the London Stadium in the New Year due to a clause in his loan agreement with Albion.
Hammers boss Manuel Pellegrini could look to recall Diangana as he looks to strengthen his attacking options for the second half of the season.

        
          MORE HERE
        
      
West Bromwich Albion will resume their Sky Bet Championship campaign this weekend at Hull City .
The Baggies go to the KCOM Stadium in fine form and in a healthy position in the league table.
Slaven Bilic ’s side beat Stoke City 2-0 in their last outing to move to the top of the Championship, two points ahead of second-placed Preston North End.
Hull have had a mixed start to life under new manager Grant McCann, but have picked up wins against Derby County, Nottingham Forest and Fulham in recent matches.
In the build-up to the game, we spoke to Jonty Colman from Hull Live to get the inside track on Albion’s next opponent.

        
          MORE HERE
        
      
West Bromwich Albion left-back Conor Townsend has never been more desperate to impress after finally breaking into the team.
Opportunity has knocked for Townsend with Kieran Gibbs out injured and his replacement, rookie academy product Nathan Ferguson, serving a three-match suspension .
Their absence paved the way for Townsend’s first league start of the season in the win over Stoke on Monday night when Albion kept only their third clean sheet.
And the 26-year-old has no intention of relinquishing his jersey - not with a trip to hometown club Hull, where he started his career as an eight-year-old, on the immediate horizon.

        
          MORE HERE
        
      
