
# [Update: November 2019] The best Android phones you can buy today

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:15:55+00:00**

Author: **Ben Schoon**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/05/best-android-phones/)

If you’re on the hunt for a new smartphone, chances are you’ve got a lot of devices on your shortlist. There are so many different options out on the market today that it can make finding the right one a bit difficult. So, let’s take a look at the best Android phones you can buy today, as of November 2019.

        
          New for November:
        
      
Samsung is the biggest name in Android, and for 2019, the company has pulled no punches. The Galaxy S10 and S10+ are the two best Android smartphones you can buy today — here’s why.
The main focus of the Galaxy S10 is the display with a 6.1-inch panel on the S10 and a 6.4-inch panel on the S10+. In either case, it’s an Infinity-O display at 3040×1440 with a “hole-punch” at the top right corner to house the 10 MP selfie camera. There’s just a single camera on the S10, but a dual-camera array on the S10+ for improved portrait mode. Each display also has a built-in ultrasonic fingerprint sensor.
As far as the build goes, Samsung has also stuck with the same aluminum and glass build as in years past. Wireless charging is on board, USB-C, and a dual-speaker system as well. Around back, the S10 and S10+ also both have three cameras with a standard 12 MP primary sensor, 12 MP telephoto zoom lens, and a 16 MP super wide-angle option, too.
Both devices also run on top of a Snapdragon 855 processor, 8 GB of RAM, and 128 GB of storage. The smaller Galaxy S10 has a 3,400 mAh battery while the S10+ has a 4,100 mAh battery. Both devices can also be upgraded to 512 GB of storage, but the S10+ can also go up to 1 TB of storage and 12 GB of RAM. Samsung has also managed to keep the headphone jack and IP68 water/dust resistance. Android 9 Pie ships out of the box with the company’s OneUI software layer.
Put simply, it doesn’t really get much better than the Galaxy S10 lineup. These phones have the strongest processors on the market right now, a frankly crazy spec package, and promising cameras, too. The software continues to get better too, and pricing is well in line with the rest of the industry.
The only glaring flaw with the Galaxy S10 and S10+ is software support. Typically, Samsung is slow to push out major updates, and security patches are generally delayed, too, depending on your carrier. It’s a shame, and something you’ll want to keep in consideration.
Unlocked, the Galaxy S10 starts at $899 while the S10+ starts at $999. That’s in line with other flagships, but a big jump from last year’s Galaxy S9 family. The device can be purchased in its unlocked state from Amazon, Samsung, and B&H Photo (S10, S10+). As for carriers, Verizon (S10, S10+), T-Mobile (S10, S10+), and AT&T (S10, S10+) all carry both the S10 and S10+.
