
# Liverpool predicted line-up to face Genk as Jurgen Klopp ponders multiple changes

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:44:02+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-predicted-line-up-face-20813347)

Liverpool will be looking to move one step closer to securing a place in the Champions League knockout stages when they host Genk on Tuesday.
The defending champions of Europe are currently second in Group E with six points, one behind leaders Napoli, after two wins and one defeat in their opening three games.
After securing a 4-1 win in Belgium last month, the Reds will be looking to do the double over Felix Mazzu's side when they travel to Anfield.
Although they will be without existing absentees Joel Matip, Xherdan Shaqiri and Nathaniel Clyne, Jurgen Klopp reported no fresh injury concerns following the weekend's victory over Aston Villa.
However, the Liverpool boss admitted he will consider making changes from the team that extended the club's unbeaten start to the Premier League campaign with a dramatic 2-1 win at Villa Park.
 
“We will hopefully have a couple of fresh legs in,” he told Liverpoolfc.com on Monday.
“It’s clear that we want that, but it’s not like we will do so many changes that you cannot recognise our team anymore and think, ‘Who is that?’
“This period was absolutely OK because we made changes against Arsenal , we had to, then we played Aston Villa, now we have to look a little bit at what we do tomorrow night.
“But it’s all about having the best formation for this game, nothing else. It was always like this and will always be like this.”
 
Klopp is not expected to make too many changes to his back line, with Andy Robertson and Virgil van Dijk set to keep their usual starting spots while Alisson starts in goal.
The most likely change to the defence could see Joe Gomez return to the starting XI, with Dejan Lovren and Trent Alexander-Arnold the most likely to miss out. 
With Fabinho no longer in danger of missing Sunday's crucial clash with title rivals Man City after being left out against Aston Villa, the Brazilian is expected to return as part of a midfield reshuffle.
Meanwhile Jordan Henderson could be rested after he was absent from the team's training session on Monday, with James Milner set to come in.
It also remains to be seen whether the Reds will choose to rest any members of their star front three for Sunday, with Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain also set to be given another chance to impress after scoring twice during the trip to Belgium a fortnight ago.
Liverpool predicted XI: Alisson; Alexander-Arnold, Gomez, van Dijk, Robertson; Milner, Fabinho, Wijnaldum; Oxlade-Chamberlain, Firmino, Mane
