
# With Tokyo ticket in hand, time for Rani & Co to up their game

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:35:33+00:00**

Author: **Manuja Veerappa**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/hockey/top-stories/with-tokyo-ticket-in-hand-time-for-rani-co-to-up-their-game/articleshow/71885756.cms)

BHUBANESWAR: When the final hooter sounded at the end of India's second match of the two-leg FIH Olympic qualifiers against USA on Saturday, fireworks lit up the night skies over the Kalinga Stadium.
The Indian players enveloped skipper Rani Rampal in a celebratory hug. The team had just qualified for the Olympics and tears of joy flowed as what appeared a distant dream was finally realized.
However, for players like goalkeeper Savita and Rani herself, relief was the predominant feeling. After all, they had just avoided the nightmare of 2012 when they failed to qualify while playing at home. The US had given India a fright, nearly knocking back the 1-5 deficit from the first leg. Rani and her team held on by the skin of their teeth.
One of the biggest victories for the team thus far has been surviving uncertainty in their camp. Sjoerd Marijine, who took over the reins in February 2017, was moved to the helm of the men's team in September that year with Harendra Singh returning as head coach of the women's team. Eight months later, Marjine was back with the women's side.
Marijine and Harendra are two tactically, culturally and temperamentally different individuals, but the Rani-led team emerged from the chaos unscathed. If anything, they grew stronger. They sacrificed plenty too and some like Lalremsiami chose country over attending her father's (who passed when the team was playing the FIH Series Finals in Hiroshima last June) funeral.
All this almost came to nought on Saturday. Going into the second qualifier with a 4-goal advantage, it took the US just 28 minutes to wipe out the lead. Much like the opening match on Friday, India's shortcomings were laid bare in the first two quarters.
Execution and consistency were the grey areas. Over 120 minutes across two days, the team was dogged by lack of consistency. It felt like different Indian teams were walking in and out of the field. This was particularly true in the first two quarters of both matches. During that period, their passing lacked precision and their fumbled once too often while stopping the ball. On the move, they failed to find their teammates in position and the defenders fell into well-laid traps when the Americans pulled them out of position with their deft stick work and short passes. An otherwise rock-solid goalkeeper Savita had an off-colour Saturday, just like dragflick ace Gurjit Kaur on Friday.
But they withstood the pressure as the hard work of the past couple of years was on show. The Indian players of the past would have walked with their shoulders slumped when trailing 0-4. But what the new crop did was discard their defensive approach and withstood the American onslaught and put themselves back on track.
In Marijine, the team has a specialized motivational speaker, who has encouraged them to grow as individuals and take responsibility. The soft-spoken Wayne Lombard, the team's scientific advisor, has worked extensive with each player building muscle by muscle and tided over issues like vegetarianism. Not to forget the contribution of sports psychologists who worked with the team periodically.
With the first step of qualifying done and dusted, the Indian girls are looking ahead with renewed vigour. With time at a premium, the preparations started on Sunday, said the coach.
