
# Two Celtic fans stabbed in Rome ahead of Lazio Europa League clash

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:50:15+00:00**

Author: **Gareth Bicknell**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/breaking-two-celtic-fans-stabbed-20829698)

Two Celtic supporters have been stabbed in an Irish bar in Rome ahead of Thursday's Europa League clash against Lazio.
Fans were in Flann O’Brien's in the Italian capital on Wednesday night when they were reportedly targeted, according to the Daily Record.
Police said two Celtic fans had been stabbed but their injuries were not life-threatening, and they remain in hospital.
The incident is being investigated by police.
A video posted on Twitter which contains strong language also showed hooligans trying to smash in the windows of a bar which had Scottish fans inside.
Thousands of Celtic fans have travelled to Rome for Thursday's game despite fears of violence from Lazio 'ultras'.
Celtic fans were advised by the Foreign Office not to wear their club colours while visiting Rome after their side's 2-1 win over Lazio in Glasgow last month.
Ahead of that game, a group of Lazio football fans were caught on camera performing fascist salutes as they marched through the city.
The Italian Serie A side are already on a final warning from UEFA after they made a similar gesture during their previous European game versus French side Rennes.
Celtic’s own ultra fans, The Green Brigade, countered by making a massive banner depicting fascist leader Benito Mussolini hanging upside down - depicting how he was treated after his death in Milan in 1945.
Its message of 'follow your leader' brought a UEFA charge for Celtic and led the club to believe the provocation might put fans in danger.
Celtic FC issued detailed guidance on fan safety after considering that the potential risks in Rome exceeded anything else the club has faced in recent years.
The Glasgow club are top of Europa League Group E ahead of Thursday's game, which kicks off at 5.55pm.
Lazio are four points behind in third place with three games remaining, while Romanian club Cluj are one point behind Celtic and play bottom side Rennes on Thursday evening.
