
# Live the cottage life at Montrose Crossing

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:16:50+00:00**

Author: **Cindy Stephen, for the Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/life/homes/condos/live-the-cottage-life-at-montrose-crossing)

Ready to leave renting behind and invest in a home of her own, Sarah McDonald left one small town for a slightly larger small town.
She moved from the hamlet of Blackie, 70 kilometres south of Calgary, to a new home in High River, where her job as a sales rep in the agricultural sector is based.
In the 10 years that McDonald has worked out of High River, she’s been watching the community of Montrose by Dream Development blossom on the south side of town, waiting for just the right opportunity.
“As a single person with two dogs, the first houses built in Montrose were too large. But then I saw them building townhomes and I went to check it out,” she says.
The development was Montrose Crossing, by Stepper Homes, a 42-unit community of maintenance-free townhomes and detached cottages, launched earlier this year. McDonald was among the first to buy and the first to move in.
“I couldn’t find anything in High River to compare them to,” she says.
Stepper’s Cottage Collection in Montrose Crossing includes three different models of detached homes just 2.5 feet apart. The Ashton, at 816 square feet, is a one-bedroom, one-bathroom model starting at $235,900; the Brixton with 1,136 square feet has two bedrooms and two bathrooms priced from $254,900; and the Croydon, at 1,264 square feet, has two bedrooms and 2.5 bathrooms priced from $264,900.
Each cottage is two or three storeys high with a rear-entry single-car garage instead of a basement.
The Townhome Collection has larger three-bedroom, 2.5-bathroom units from 1,264 square feet to 1,405 square feet, with single car garages and basements, priced from $278,900.
McDonald chose a cottage — the Brixton — with a garage and flex room at ground level, kitchen and living area plus a bedroom and full bathroom on the second level and a large master with an ensuite on the third.
“I’ve never had a garage before, so that’s really nice. And with a spare bedroom and full bathroom, I don’t have to share my space when guests are here,” she says.
Stepper area sales manager in High River, Joanne Parkes, says the standalone cottages are just like townhomes without the shared walls.
“It gives people an option. A lot of people talk about a tiny house — this is a step up from a tiny house. It’s a niche product, which we’re very happy about,” she says.
The Ashton in particular, with one bedroom, offers more space than an apartment-style condo might offer, with the benefit of an individual garage. Parkes says the Croydon has been popular because of the gourmet kitchen.
Buyers for the most part are locals with many from nearby Okotoks.
“There’s also lots of interest from Calgary, but High River is a lifestyle choice. You’re buying into a rural community, which is smaller and friendly.”
With $200 million worth of restoration and mitigation work done since the flood of 2013, High River could be the most protected town in Alberta. Parkes says prairie people are resilient and don’t look back.
“We pick up and make the community better than ever. We don’t dwell on the past but look to the future. Precautions have been taken, so let’s look at what our community has to offer right now.”
As a half-marathon runner and dog mom, McDonald loves the walking trails in Montrose. She volunteers with her youngest pup, a therapy dog, at the hospital on Thursday nights and simply enjoys her life in High River.
“It’s a really nice small town. There are lots of local businesses like restaurants and breweries. We have a Canadian Tire, so there’s no reason to go to Calgary unless you want something special,” she says.
COMMUNITY: Montrose in High RiverDEVELOPER: Dream DevelopmentPROJECT: Montrose CrossingBUILDER: Stepper HomesHOMES: One- and two-bedroom detached cottages with single garages; three-bedroom, 2.5-bathroom townhomes with basements and garagesSIZES: Cottages: 816 to 1,264 square feet. Townhomes: 1,263 to 1,405 square feet.PRICES: From $235,900. Condo fees are expected to be less than $200 per month.SALES CENTRE: The sales centre is at 1407 3rd St. S.E. High River, open Monday and Tuesday from 3 to 8 p.m., closed Wednesday to Friday, open Saturday and Sunday noon to 5 p.m.INFORMATION:StepperHomes.com
