
# Kew The Music 2020 goes big on romance with James Blunt, Will Young and James Morrison - how to get tickets here

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:31:06+00:00**

Author: **Alison Brinkworth**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/music-nightlife-news/kew-music-2020-goes-big-17206191)

Kew the Music will have a romantic feel to its 2020 line-up after revealing British singers James Blunt, Will Young and James Morrison as headliners.
Jack Savoretti and Gipsy Kings are also set to play the popular outdoor family festival in Kew's Royal Botanical Gardens,
The festival is set to attract thousands of music fans from across the country for its tenth annual concert between July 8 and 12, 2020.
The first headliners have been announced as James Blunt on Wednesday July 8, Jack Savoretti on Thursday July 9, Will Young and James Morrison as co-headliners on Friday July 10 and Gipsy Kings on Sunday July 12.
More headline acts for the festival are yet to be revealed.
 
Blunt, Young and Morrison are renowned for their ballads. Brit Award winner Blunt, whose new album Once Upon A Mind was released last month, had a worldwide hit with You're Beautiful, which he followed up with other songs including Goodbye My Lover.
Young, famous for tracks Leave Right Now and All Time Love, returned with album Lexicon this year after spending time concentrating on other projects including film and theatre. He gained acclaim for his role as Emcee in the stage tour of Cabaret alongside Louise Redknapp.
While James Morrison's husky voice and songs about love helped him rise to fame with his Undiscovered album in 2006 with hits including You Give Me Something and Wonderful World.
Joining them are Spanish singing band The Gipsy Kings and acoustic folk rock singer Savoretti.
Families flock to the summer music festival, taking picnics with them to saviour the day. 
 
Tickets are on general sale from 10am on Friday November 8 from The Ticket Factory and cost from £47, with each show ticketed separately. You can find out more and get yours here .
