
# Biggest soap incest plots - Married cousins on Emmerdale to Hollyoaks twins having baby

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/biggest-soap-incest-plots-married-20787346)

Emmerdale viewers are convinced a new incest storyline is about to hit the soap, with Vinny Dingle taking a liking to his cousin Belle Dingle.
He's not actually related to Belle or the family, but they currently believe he is the son of Belle's cousin Mandy - while his true identity is yet to be confirmed.
But this isn't the first time an incest plot has rocked Emmerdale, or any soap for that matter.
EastEnders, Coronation Street, Hollyoaks and Australian soap Neighbours have all been hit by bombshells of romances between family members - from cousins, to siblings and even twins.
Here's a look back at some of the most shocking incest twists in soap land...
 
Dodger was stunned to learn he had a twin sister, Sienna, back in 2012 - with the siblings separated at birth.
But there was an even bigger shock to come when it was revealed they had in fact met up when they were 13 without realising who each other was, before having sex leading to Sienna falling pregnant.
Sienna and Dodger's daughter Nico Blake later arrived in the village.
Viewers were pretty repulsed by the storyline, with Sienna sleeping with her twin brother - the plot was revisited later on too when Sienna kissed her brother.
A similar storyline rocked Ramsay Street on Neighbours, when Amy and boyfriend Leo got the shock of their lives.
As romance blossomed for the pair, Amy's dad dropped the news that Leo was in fact his long-lost son - and Amy and Leo were half siblings.
The pair were disgusted and devastated, and Leo struggled to switch his feelings off for his secret sister.
Lola Pearce slept with Ben Mitchell when they were teenagers, as he struggled with his sexuality.
She ended up falling pregnant and gave birth to their daughter Lexi, with Ben and Lola remaining close pals ever since.
But Lola is the granddaughter of Billy Mitchell, who happens to be the cousin of Phil Mitchell.
With Ben being Phil's son, this makes him and Lola cousins somewhere along the way.
As well as Sienna and Dodger, Hollyoaks aired another controversial incest storyline back in 2007.
Rhys and Beth began dating with her initially engaged to his best mate Gilly - and it wasn't long before the pair were besotted with each other.
But they were left horrified to learn they were in fact half brother and sister after both attending the funeral of their father Noel.
Rhys had only recently learned at this point that Noel was his dad, and neither he or Beth knew of each other's existence.
In a twist, the siblings weren't deterred by their family relation and continued their forbidden romance - that was until they attempted to flee and Beth was killed in a car accident.
Coronation Street viewers were a little grossed out when Carla Connor bedded her nephew Ali Neeson last year.
Carla's sister-in-law Michelle Connor, Ali's mother, was left furious and stopped talking to her, while several viewers blasted it as incest.
Ali and Carla are not related by blood, with Carla previously married to his uncle Paul - Michelle's brother.
Ali also didn't grow up with the Connors so there was no family bond there.
The Dingles have a long history of incestuous relationships, amid Vinny and Belle's potential new romance.
Mandy Dingle married her own cousin Butch back in the 90s. Butch was the son of her uncle Zak Dingle.
Then there was Cain Dingle's romance with his cousin Charity Dingle, who is the daughter of Zak's cousin Obadiah. The pair had a child together, Debbie Dingle.
This is a romance that has been revisited over the years, while Charity also slept with another cousin, Marlon Dingle, back in 2003 - with Marlon's father Albert being Zak's brother and therefore Obadiah's cousin.
Possibly one of the most memorable and controversial incest storylines was EastEnders' Dennis Rickman and Sharon Watts - now Sharon Mitchell.
The pair fell in love and got married before welcoming a son together, Dennis, - but Dennis senior was stabbed to death in 2003.
Viewers and even their loved ones were not on board with the romance, because they were brother and sister.
Sharon and Dennis weren't actually related, as Sharon was Den Watts' adopted daughter, while Dennis was his biological son.
This didn't stop the family, and viewers, struggling to get on board with the relationship.
Jim McDonald shocked his ex-wife Liz when he revealed he'd found their long-lost daughter Katie, who had died over 20 years ago after being born prematurely.
He claimed there'd been a hospital mix-up and that their daughter was still alive.
So you can imagine Liz's shock when she walked in on the father and daughter snogging - only to be told Katie, now known as Hannah, was actually Jim's girlfriend and the entire thing was a scam.
Despite knowing the truth about Hannah not being their daughter, it didn't stop fans feeling grossed out by the romance.
