
# The Trumps Say Goodbye to All That

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:51:00+00:00**

Author: **R. Eric Thomas**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/career-politics/a29664992/trump-move-to-florida/)

Get ready to read the most self-serving, unintelligible "Why I Left New York" essay ever because Donald and Melania Trump are making like Sophia Petrillo and changing their residency to Florida. The president filed paperwork to make the change in September and the first lady followed suit shortly thereafter, according to The New York Times. It's unclear if the Trumps realized that you can be extradited from Palm Beach County, but whatever. Bye!
Donald Trump, who famously was working in a bridal shop in Flushing, Queens, before stumbling into a life of crime like Matt Damon in The Departed except deeply, deeply stupid, claims that he is leaving New York because the local politicians have treated him badly. If by local politicians he means every tourist who takes a selfie giving the Trump building the middle finger, then sure. The height of oppression. Trump, of course, is under investigation for a host of crimes in the state of New York and, like your friend who thinks that moving across state lines will suddenly transform them into less of a disaster, he's looking for a new start for old nonsense. Yo homes, smell ya later!
The Trumps really are those people who live in an apartment filled with old pizza boxes and are terrible at their jobs and whose only friends are Anna Delvey and the Grubhub driver and have been on Judge Judy at the defendant multiple times and think that the problem in their lives is other people. They're like, "Our Co-Star app says we need a change of scenery and to throw off the old baggage." And you're like, "you are the baggage, bish!" Anyway, ciao!
According to the paperwork, the Trumps are claiming that their primary residence will be Mar-a-Lago which is the saddest thing I have ever heard in my whole damn life. I'm not a rich monster, so maybe I don't know, but Mar-a-Lago seems, at best, like the retirement home in Cocoon and, at worst, like a tacky museum of crime. Who lives at a golf club? It's like the kids in The Mixed Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler grew up but didn't learn any lessons whatsoever. Like everything Trump does, this smacks of being the kind of thing a rich kid who gets Freaky Friday'd into an adult's body does. He's like "We're going to live at the gold palace in the middle of Florida like my aunt Hildy and eat green Jell-o for dessert every day!" Okay, whatever, peace out!
Living at Mar-a-Lago is like living on a cruise ship mixed with the Overlook Hotel from The Shining. Now, a cruise ship I could see. Food whenever you want it and waking up somewhere different every day? Sounds like my junior year of college but not personally ruinous. Sign me up. But being stuck in 90 degree heat with a bunch of equally terrible retirees who only tolerate you because you are the country's most famous criminal? I just don't know, hon. But who cares what I think? Blessings!
The Trumps leaving New York in a huff because nobody likes them is like Lexie Featherston on Sex and the City careening around Candice Bergen's party, smoking a cigarette inside, and screaming about how New York is over before pratfalling out a window.
Okay, actually though, Kristen Johnston is iconic and she does not deserve this comparison and I RuPaulogize.
The Trumps are the set of grandparents that you never really liked who are finally moving far enough away that you don't have to visit. Sources at the White House say the decision is primarily tax related, which is very, very on brand. My condolences to the fine residents of Florida including Jacksonville Jaguar Nick Foles, clapback king Andrew Gillum, and the actress playing Cruella deVille at Disney World. Our gain is your loss. Deuces!
