
# Only a fool would write off Frank Lampard’s Chelsea - they have his never-say-die spirit

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:15:00+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/only-fool-would-write-frank-20820954)

Frank Lampard enjoyed some incredible Champions League nights at Stamford Bridge but few were as dramatic as this.
Eight goals, an incredible Chelsea fightback after some of their own fans had begun to leave early with their team seemingly beaten and two Ajax players sent off in one of the most remarkable Group matches you are likely to see.
Somehow Ajax held on for the final 20 minutes with just nine men as Chelsea came within a VAR decision of getting a winner when it seemed the most unlikely victory was within their grasp.
That would have been unthinkable when Lampard’s side were 4-1 down during the second half with Ajax rampant and pulling Chelsea apart but the beauty of this team is they never give up.
Incredibly, when the final whistle went you could see Lampard’s disappointment at not having won and now Group H is on a knife edge with Chelsea, Valencia and Ajax all on seven points with two games left.
But now only a fool would write off Lampard’s Chelsea under any circumstances because they simply never give up and, best of all, they are fun to watch again.
It was breathless, brilliant and dramatic in equal measure and it would be pointless to compare this young side with the legendary team which won the Champions League during Lampard’s glorious playing career.
But the thing they do have in common is the same never-say-die spirit because lesser teams would have buckled against an Ajax team seemingly hell bent on revenge for the defeat in Amsterdam two weeks ago.
The game got off to an incredible, breathless start with two goals in the first four minutes - and the pace never relented during the whole frenetic game.
Ajax were ahead inside two minutes as Quincy Promes curled in a free kick from the left, Tammy Abraham tried to clear it and unwittingly deflected it past his own keeper and inside the near post.
But Chelsea roared straight back up the other end and in-form Christian Pulisic won a penalty after being tripped by Joel Veltman and then crashed into Nicolas Tagliafico. Up stepped Jorginho and, cool as you like, the Chelsea midfielder stroked the ball into the bottom corner.
But rather than heed the warning and settle down, Chelsea just fell apart with Hakim Ziyech wreaking havoc. It was Ziyech’s teasing cross which led to Ajax’s second in the 20th minute as Chelsea’s defence went AWOL to leave Promes unmarked to head home.
Then Ziyech struck again after 35 minutes when his curling cross sailed over Kepa Arrizabalaga’s head, hit the post and then hit the Chelsea keeper in the face and going into the net in rather comical fashion.
That felt bad enough but, after 55 minutes, it got even worse as Ajax went 4-1 up. Ziyech found Donny van de Beek and he smashed home a low shot.
Chelsea pulled one back after 63 minutes as Pulisic’s ball flashed across the goal and Azpilicueta slotted home at the back post. Suddenly the crowd had belief. It then went crazy after 69 minutes when Ajax had two players sent off in the same flashpoint.
First, Daley Blind got his second yellow card for a foul on Abraham and then all hell broke loose when Veltman got his marching orders for a second booking for handball which led to Chelsea’s second penalty. Up stepped Jorginho to convert another spot kick.
Then, after 74 minutes, Chelsea grabbed an equaliser. Kurt Zouma headed against the crossbar, substitute Reece James then smashed an unstoppable shot through a crowd of players.
The roof came off the place. But still they weren’t finished. Azpilicueta thought he had won it after 78 minutes only for VAR to rule it out for a handball against Abraham and the incredible celebrations were cut short.
Both teams kept going as Ajax had their chances while Chelsea pressed and pressed but could not find a winner on a night when everything felt possible.
