
# Kieran Tierney finds his Arsenal answer to Patrick Roberts as he channels Scott Brown tradition

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:54:03+00:00**

Author: **Record Sport Online**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/kieran-tierney-finds-arsenal-answer-20816601)

Kieran Tierney continued to train with Arsenal on Tuesday - and it appears he has a new pal in David Luiz.
The left-back was present at London Colney after Steve Clarke revealed the Gunners had requested he be left out of the Scotland squad amid an "ongoing issue".
The former Celtic defender has been carefully managed since his £25million summer move having missed much of last season through injury.
But he's now made six appearances totalling 427 minutes in the past month, including starts in Arsenal's last two Premier League fixtures.
Clarke admits he's frustrated by the left-back's absence as he looks to build momentum ahead of next year's Nations League play-offs.
He said: "Kieran’s got an ongoing issue that Arsenal are keen to address in the next international break and Arsenal asked us not to select him.
“It’s a little bit frustrating and it’s obviously frustrating for Kieran as well."
Tierney was pictured making his way onto the pitch, alongside team-mates Luiz and Gabriel Martinelli.
In the former, perhaps he finally has a replacement, albeit an unlikely one, for Patrick Roberts.
The two were inseparable at Celtic's Lennoxtown base and their friendship was a theme of Roberts' loan spell in Scotland.
Also a feature was Tierney's refusal to wear anything but short sleeves, even in the thick of Scottish winter, in the same vein as captain Scott Brown.
While team-mates donned gloves on tights, that London weather should be comparatively tropical to the hills of East Dunbartonshire for the Scot.
Despite another Scotland omission, Tierney has insisted he's fully committed long-term, previously revealing all parties were on board with his decision to sit out the last international break.
He said in October: "What I’m doing isn’t against Scotland, it’s for the future of my Scotland career. I need to help my body and make sure that I am in the best place possible for the next camp - that’s what it’s all about.
“I understand it, Arsenal understand it and Scotland understand it."
But Tierney is not yet ready and it appears Arsenal are continuing to manage the 22-year-old's workload
The Gunners' Europa League participation ensures a heavy schedule and come Saturday evening he could feasibly have played three times in a week.
