
# Grief-stricken family of murder victim beg judges not to release killer

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:51:51+00:00**

Author: **Louie Smith, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/, Fiona Duffy**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/grief-stricken-family-murder-victim-20829126)

The family of murder victim Helen McCourt – whose body has never been found – will today plead with judges: “Don’t release Helen’s killer to dance on her secret grave.”
Mum Marie, 76, celebrated three weeks ago when a Bill to introduce Helen’s Law was unveiled after years of campaigning.
It means killers could be denied parole for not revealing where their victims are.
But Marie fears it may come too late to stop Helen’s killer, Ian Simms, 63, being freed after this week’s parole hearing.
Speaking of his possible release, she said: “The thought horrifies me. I cannot think of one good reason anyone could possibly believe he is safe to be released.”
 
Marie, supported by husband John Sandwell, 72, and son Michael, 51, will beg the hearing not to consider freeing Simms before the law comes into effect next year.
In her victim impact statement she will tell of her “increasing distress” at having no answers when her grandchildren ask how their Aunt Helen died.
And Michael, who was 19 when Helen, 22, was killed, will reveal his fears about the danger Simms poses to the family.
Marie, who launched her campaign in the Mirror four years ago, said: “Learning the Ministry of Justice was going to introduce Helen’s Law was a dream come true.
“I was able to sleep at night and think of my daughter without crying. We didn’t have her back but we had created a legacy in her name.
“This hearing has sent me back to hell – giving my statement is traumatic.
“Reading those words brings it all back to me – just how raw the pain still is of knowing she is out there somewhere. But I have to do it for my daughter.”
Thursday marks the first time Michael has felt able to attend a hearing, aware it could be the last chance to keep Simms locked up. Marie, of Billinge, near Wigan, explained: “Michael never wanted to risk coming face-to-face with Simms.
“Hearing Michael read his statement for the first time – revealing the pain he still endures – will break my heart.
“I lost a daughter, he lost a sister and best friend and has never got over it.”
Simms was given a life sentence in 1989, with a minimum 16-year term.
The two-day hearing is taking place in London.
