
# Red Cross deploys thousands of volunteers, staff, standby ambulances for ‘Undas’ 2019

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:25:47+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/01/red-cross-deploys-thousands-of-volunteers-staff-standby-ambulances-for-undas-2019/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
THE Philippine Red Cross (PRC) said it is all set to provide safety and welfare assistance by mobilizing 156 ambulances and more than 1, 700 staff and volunteers nationwide in the observance of All Saints’ and All Souls’ Days.
“As always, PRC is in full operation to accommodate everyone, especially our kababayans who will be going home to their respective provinces to visit their departed loved ones. We want to ensure their safety,” said PRC Chairman and CEO Richard Gordon.
PRC will set up 168 first aid stations and 120 welfare desks in 147 cemeteries and memorial parks as well as to major highways including North Luzon Expressway (Nlex) and South Luzon Expressway (Slex), Tarlac-Pangasinan-La Union Expressway (TPLEx), Subic-Clark-Tarlac Expressway (SCTEx), ports and bus terminals, and beaches.
There will be 39 roving and 117 standby ambulances deployed in strategic places while foot patrollers will be positioned in hard to reach areas like cemetery alleys.
For emergency and any untoward incidents, contact the Red Cross’s 24/7 Operations Center, dial 143 or 8790-23-00.
MUNTINLUPA residents and visitors visiting their dearly departed may take shuttle services to the city’s six public and private cemeteries and candles until November 2 free of charge.
Muntinlupa Public Information Officer Tez Navarro said state-owned service vehicles, including 15 e-jeepneys, flexi-trucks, and city buses will be deployed along the national road from Sucat to Tunasan to ferry constituents going to the grave sites for this year’s All Saints’ Day and All Souls’ Day celebrations.
Pickup points of free shuttle services include: Susana Heights Bus Terminal (Everest Hills Memorial Park), Plaza Central (Japanese Cemetery), Caltex Station–Soldiers Hills (Muntinlupa City Public Cemetery/Aglipay Cemetery), and Sucat East Service Road to Alabang Montillano Street, to M.L Quezon Street, to Meralco Road Loop (San Nicolas de Tolentino Cemetery).
Mayor Jaime Fresnedi ordered the Muntinlupa Ciy Police Department and Muntinlupa City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council to beef up security personnel and emergency response teams to ensure peace and order in the cemeteries.
Muntinlupa Undas 2019 is spearheaded by the Office of the Mayor, in coordination with Muntinlupa Traffic and Management Bureau.

        
          Claudeth Mocon-Ciriaco and Roderick L. Abad
        
      
