
# Out of joint

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Daily Mirror**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/opinion/you/out-of-joint/articleshow/71858035.cms)

Aching hips and creaky knees? Learn how to take care of your joints Concerned about how your joints are working? Aching backs or knees keeping you up at night? If that’s a yes, you need to know what you should do — physically, medically and diet wise — to keep keep the pain at bay. █ FIRST UP, THE PHYSICAL...1. Exercise wisely Regular exercise helps keep weight in check and prevents stiffness and swelling. “Low-impact activities like biking and walking are better than running or aerobics, while swimming takes the entire load off the joints,” says Dr Yousef Habbab, an orthopaedic specialist. Exercises that target the spinal segmental range of motion, like t’ai chi, Pilates and yoga, improve posture and reduce wear and tear on joints. 2. Keep warm When you’re cold and shivery, muscles tense and stiffen, making them more prone to injury and discomfort. 3. Drink water Staying hydrated can lessen pain caused by conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis , osteoarthritis and gout, says Earle Logan, muscles and joints adviser. “If we don’t drink enough, the production of protective synovial fluid will be reduced, increasing the risk of friction pain and cartilage deterioration,” he warns. 4. Build muscle About 60 per cent of the force that goes through the legs when walking should be absorbed by muscles surrounding the hips. If your muscles aren’t strong enough, joints take more force and can become injured, says Earle. Exercise with resistance bands, hand weights and your body weight (squats, lunges and so on). 5. Stop smoking A few cigarettes a day can more than double your risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis, according to Swedish researchers, who followed more than 30,000 women over seven years. 6. Stand on one leg Balancing exercises are important, says Tim Allardyce, osteopath and physiotherapist. “Stand on one leg with your eyes open (progress to eyes closed) and try to keep your balance.” Touch the wall for support if you need to. Hold for two minutes daily.” “This strengthens the muscles and ligaments around the ankles and knees, improving balance and co-ordination.” █ THEN THERE'S THE DIET...1. Beware the wrong fruits and veggies Citrus fruits and the nightshade family (potatoes, tomatoes, peppers and aubergines) can lead to inflammation and make arthritis symptoms worse, Earle warns. Eat green leafy vegetables like kale and spinach and cruciferous broccoli, cauliflower and sprouts, all thought to be antiinflammatory. Mango, pineapple, papaya, and guava enzymes may help reduce acidity in the body, which will help joints. 2. Oil the machineryRegularly eating oily fish rich in omega-3 fats like salmon and mackerel could halve rheumatoid arthritis risks, a Swedish study found. Women who ate at least one serving of oily fish a week had a 52 per cent lower risk of developing the condition than those who didn’t. 3. Have some red wineGreat news — research from the Al-Rafidain University College in Baghdad found that osteoarthritis patients given resveratrol, an antioxidant found in the skin of red grapes, had reduced levels of pain and inflammation. 4. Sip green teaA chemical in green tea, EGCG (epigallocatechin gallate) has the potential to address crippling arthritic joint pain, inflammation and tissue damage, say scientists at Washington State University. █ AND THERE'S THE MEDICAL BIT...Drug-free remedies1. Acupuncture “By stimulating different points on the body, acupuncture can provide longterm joint pain relief by reducing inflammation and improving muscle stiffness,” says Maureen Cromey, acupuncturist. 2. CapsaicinThis chilli-pepper extract works by reducing substance P, a pain transmitter in the nerves, and comes in cream, gel or plaster form on prescription only. Herbal remediesDr Dick Middleton, a registered pharmacist, says. “Herbs such as devil’s claw or sigesbeckia tablets may relieve muscle aches, joint pain and backache,” he says. 1. GlucosamineFound naturally in the body, glucosamine plays an important role in making the essential building blocks of the joints, including the ligaments, tendons and cartilage. As painkillers can have side-effects and many older people can’t take them because of other health conditions, glucosamine is worth trying. As an added bonus, a recent study in the BMJ found that glucosamine might have a protective role for the heart. If you have diabetes or take warfarin, check with your GP before starting a course of glucosamine. 2. RosehipCapsules made from natural rosehips has anti-inflammatory properties. “It has been shown in randomised, placebo-controlled clinical trials to significantly reduce arthritis joint pain,” says consultant rheumatologist Dr Rod Hughes.
