
# Union, employees, advocates speak out after death of Wood's Homes employee Deborah Onwu

Published at: **2019-11-01T02:59:17+00:00**

Author: **Alanna Smith**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/union-employees-advocates-speak-out-after-death-of-woods-homes-employee-deborah-onwu)

While workers within the social services sector are waving red flags about dangers in the industry, the union representing a Calgary organization whose employee died on the job last week said they have been advocating change.
The death of Deborah Onwu, 47, shocked many and has triggered current and former workers to speak out and distribute a petition calling on the province to ensure safer working conditions.
Onwu, a youth counsellor employed by Wood’s Homes, was stabbed to death Oct. 25 at an assisted living facility in Calgary. An 18-year-old client has been charged with second-degree murder. The allegations have not been proven in court.
The client, who allegedly has complex mental health needs and a history of violence, had a classification of needing at least a 2-1 ratio of care according to the Canadian Union of Public Employees.
However, the union representing Wood’s Homes employees states that Onwu was dealing with the client alone while a co-worker handled another client on a different floor.
Lou Arab, a spokesman of the Alberta division of CUPE, said they had been raising concerns about staffing levels and safety issues for years.
He said funding and the work environment need to be improved to eliminate fears for safety.
“Obviously, we cannot leave this alone and we cannot shake this off. We will use every conceivable means we have to improve the working conditions of our members,” said Arab.
A current employee of Wood’s Homes, who spoke to Postmedia on the condition of anonymity, said the organization’s culture, policies and practices are a concern.
“I thought if I don’t say anything, I don’t think I would be able to live with myself,” they said. “Something needs to change.”
They said employees want the company to improve communication and the staffing levels surrounding clients.
“Management needs to step up and listen to staff when they say they feel unsafe,” the employee said.
The best friend of Onwu said she had only been working at the southwest facility for two weeks before the homicide, having worked at a different Wood’s Homes centre previously.
“I don’t know how well she knew the client or how comfortable she was with his care plan or how much information was revealed to her. There are these questions and we need to know the answers,” said Nnenne George. “The Debbie that I know, she is a seasoned social worker. She is very professional and would not put herself in the line of harm.”
George said something has to be done otherwise Onwu’s death won’t be the last.
Her death is the latest in a series of cases where care workers have paid the ultimate price caring for others.
Recent examples include the death of Sharla Collier, 20, who was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a tree branch by a 14-year-old boy in 2002; Camrose care worker Valerie Wolski, 41, who was strangled by a youth in her care in 2011; and another Camrose care worker, Dianne McClements, 61, who was stabbed to death by a 17-year-old boy.
In all three incidents, the women were alone with the client, like Onwu.
A spokeswoman with Wood’s Homes said they take the responsibility of promoting a safe workplace very seriously.
“We are working with our staff to address the issues stemming from this very sad incident,” said Sylvia MacIver in a statement. “Due to client confidentiality and privacy, we are unable to comment on any specifics related to our past or current clients.”
MacIver said Wood’s Homes is fully co-operating with investigations underway by the province’s occupational health and safety agency and Calgary police.
“While these workers are not government employees, organizations are required to have appropriate security protocols in place. Harassment and violence have no place in our workplaces and are not just ‘part of the job,’ which is why it’s addressed in our occupational health and safety laws,” said Rajan Sawhney, minister of community and social services.
Sawhney, in addition to Labour Minister Jason Copping and Justice Minister Doug Schweitzer, said they couldn’t comment further considering the ongoing investigations.
In the cases of Collier and Wolski, fatality inquiries regarding their deaths took years to complete and fuelled criticism about the value of the reports if the recommendations aren’t implemented. Schweitzer said they can be useful under the right circumstances but did not comment on the criticisms.
Erin Northey, a former youth caseworker who has launched a petition demanding action from the province, said she knows first-hand the dangers of working with vulnerable populations.
While working in a high-risk environment in 2016, she was assaulted by a client and suffered a concussion, resulting in post-concussion syndrome, anxiety and PTSD. She counts herself lucky considering she made it out with her life.
“It’s time for change,” said Northey. “We’re demanding action.”
Her petition, which has been signed by thousands of people, calls on the government to review current policies and practices in place by speaking with workers on the front-lines. Everything from funding, legislation and resources for employees transitioning back into the sector should be evaluated, she said.
Brandon Jacob Spencer Newman, 18, is charged with second-degree murder in Onwu’s death and is set to appear in court Friday.

        With files from Janet French and Lisa Johnson
      

        alsmith@postmedia.com
      
On Twitter: @alanna_smithh
