
# Man Utd 'begin preparations for £80m Declan Rice transfer'

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:52:20+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/man-utd-begin-preparations-80m-20808627)

Manchester United have reportedly started preparations to secure the signing of Declan Rice from West Ham .
Rice, 20, has emerged as Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s top target for next summer - but he could join in the upcoming transfer window.
The Red Devils lack options in the engine room after losing Ander Herrera and Marouane Fellaini this year.
Uncertainty over Nemanja Matic and Paul Pogba’s futures has further increased the need to reinforce the midfield.
A swoop for Rice is likely to be made at the end of the season, according to Goal , but preparations are already underway raising hopes of a potential January deal.
West Ham would reportedly demand around £80m for the England international.
Rice is under contract with the Hammers until 2024 after penning fresh terms last December.
Despite fevered speculation over his future, Rice insists he is committed to the east Londoners.
"I signed a five year contract with West Ham last year, which will keep me at the club till I'm 24, and for me this is the best place to be right now," he said.
"I am playing for a manager who has given me my chance and played me week in, week out.
"I'm improving every week and although I see all this speculation, I don't really think about it too much.
"It's all talk until something happens - and nothing has - so I'm just focused on West Ham, doing my best and making fans happy."
Rice, who was released by Chelsea at the age of 14, has made 81 appearances for West Ham since his debut in 2017.
Saturday’s 3-2 defeat to Newcastle made it six games without a win in all competitions for Manuel Pellegrini’s side.
