
# Malaysia has its own laws to classify terrorist groups — police

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:49:36+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/malaysia-has-its-own-laws-classify-terrorist-groups-%E2%80%94-police)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 5): Malaysia has its own laws and systems in determining whether a group is extremists or terrorists including in the case of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).
Bukit Aman’s Special Branch Counter Terrorism Division (E8) principal assistant director Datuk Ayob Khan Mydin Pitchay said although the United States (US) had removed the LTTE from its list of terrorist groups, it could not be the basis for Malaysia to do the same.
“We are a sovereign country and have our own laws, everything that we do has its own standard operating procedure (SOP).
“We can’t use the US list as the basis as there are many other countries that still listed the LTTE as a terror group,” he told reporters when met at the 11th International Conference on Financial Crime and Terrorism Financing 2019 (IFCTF 2019) here today.
Commenting on the terrorism financing investigation, Ayob Khan said 22 investigation papers had been opened with 19 individuals were brought to court since 2016 to date.
He explained that any money transaction, even in a small amount, would still be considered as a crime if it was channelled to finance terrorism activities.
“Some people make transaction of RM100 up to a significant amount regularly, and this can be traced with the help of the bank.
“Most of them use Western Union to send money to families or third parties as funds to Syria and Southern Philippines,” he said.
Meanwhile, on the fate of millitant Yazid Sufaat who is currently detained at the Simpang Renggam Prison, Ayob Khan said it would be decided by the Prevention of Terrorism Board that was scheduled to meet in the middle of this month.
“We gave our inputs and (now) waiting for the decision from the board,” he said.
Yazid, 55, who is directly linked to theSept 11, 2001 attacks on the United States, may be released from detention this month and that release may raise concerns among anti-terrorism officials in the country.
The US-trained biochemist has been detained at the Simpang Renggam Prison near Kluang for the past two years under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, that allows the suspect to be detained without trial for two years.
Asked on the whereabouts of Malaysians in Syria, he said to date, the authorities had identified 65, but only be able to make contact with 40 of them. — Bernama
