
# Microsoft new app on Android: Word, Excel and PowerPoint in one app

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:12:10+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/02/microsoft-launches-a-new-app-on-android-word-excel-and-powerpoint-in-one-app/)

Microsoft launches a new app on Android: Word, Excel and PowerPoint in one app3.6 (72.29%) 83 votes
Microsoft is heavily invested in the Android ecosystem. The company offers its own launcher, but also its services. In this category, the best known is still Microsoft Office that the firm offers in the form of a suite of different applications for Android: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, but also Office Lens to scan documents.
Microsoft has indeed published on the Play Store a new application named “Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint & more” which as the name suggests proposes to bring all the aforementioned applications in a single app. The application is currently in “early access”, that is to say in beta.
In addition to creating or editing Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents from the Android smartphone. Also, the application also integrates Office Lens capabilities to scan documents, whiteboards or even simple QR codes.
Hard to know what Microsoft’s future holds for previous separate applications. The editor seems for the moment focused on its new unified application.
Word, Excel, and PowerPoint combined in one app:
Update: It seems that Microsoft has pulled the app from the Play Store, Here is an alternative link (Download).
