
# JM says movie with Alessandra an experiment

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:43:50+00:00**

Author: **Mario Bautista**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/entertainment/showbiz/jm-says-movie-alessandra-experiment)

So what did he learn from Alex? “She’s very positive na katrabaho. Hindi demanding. Relaxed lang, but para kaming nage-experiment in doing our scenes together and I think maganda naman lumabas ang mga eksena namin in ‘Lucid’, directed by Victor Villanueva, who’s also a new but very talented young filmmaker.”
He and Alex play lucid dreamers in the movie. “May mga tao talagang ganyan, lucid dreamers. Nakokontrol ang mga nangyayari sa panaginip nila. Ako mismo, I have vivid dreams. My doctor told me to wrire down my dreams para hindi ko malimutan, but I can’t, so I just draw them, sketch them. Isang dream ko, about war. Anarchy. I still remember the sounds. Planes fell from the sky. Suddenly, there came a strong electric force. Alleys were flooded.  Children from the streets were everywhere. There were killings. Darkness reigned. The doctor said it’s not an ordinary dream but a nightmare. Kaya nga naka-identify ako sa role ko in ‘Lucid’ and the surreal dreams my character there experienced.”
He is currently being linked to Ria Atayde but he says they’re just good friends who are still getting to know each other better. “She’s a rare find, a good influence. I think we bring out the best in each other. But we’re both more focused now on our careers. I want her to watch ‘Lucid’ kasi I’m proud of this movie. It will have is premiere night at Trinoma on November 10, 7:30 PM and I will invite her.”
JM is just glad to be part of Cinema One Originals again as one of his biggest hits ever was an entry here in 2014, “That Thing Called Tadhana”, with Angelica Panganiban, that became a blockbuster when it was later released in theaters nationwide.
