
# VIDEO | David Warner defies laws of physics to inflict Babar Azam run out

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:42:38+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/video-david-warner-defies-laws-of-physics-to-inflict-babar-azam-run-out?utm_medium=rss)


        Australia southpaw David Warner is always a live wire on the field, let it be in the slips or in the deep. Warner inflicted a superb run out to dismiss the danger man Babar Azam with a direct hit and played a brisk cameo of 20 as Australia won the second T20I against Pakistan by seven wickets.
      
David Warner is renowned across the world for being a devastating opener but his fielding skills are top class too. Warner is a live wire on the field, let it be in the slips or in the deep one can't keep him out of the game.
In the second T20I of the series between Australia and Pakistan, at one point Babar Azam was looking to threaten the Aussie bowling line up and it was then that Warner's rocket arm came to the rescue. At 49, Babar nudged the ball into the midwicket region for a single. Trying to sneak in a second Babar was run out as Warner who rushed in from deep midwicket hit the stumps on one bounce. The departure of Babar(50), at the score of 106, slowed the Pakistan innings as they were able to manage only 150 in their quota of 20 overs.
Having contributed on the field Warner played a brisk cameo of 20 runs as Steven Smith's unbeaten 80 guided the Kangaroos home with nine balls and seven wickets left. With the win, Australia goes 1-0 up in the 3-match series. The third and final T20 of the series will be played at the Perth Stadium on 8th of November and Australia will look to seal the series, which they would have won by now had rain not interrupted the first match.
