
# It's not proper to topple unwanted govt through sit-ins: Chaudhry Nisar

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:25:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/517546-proper-topple-unwanted-govt-through-sit-ins-Chaudhry-Nisar)

TAXILA (Dunya News) - Former interior minister and veteran politician Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan said that it is not proper to topple an incompetent and unwanted government through protest.
The veteran politician further said that the one who rejected the PTI’s sit-in in 2014 calling it wrong is declaring the JUI-F’s Azadi Match right today, “It should be called martial law when the leadership is changing its stance repeatedly”, he expressed adding that it is very difficult to get rid of a sit-in once it is staged.
He expressed that Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) chief Fazlur Rehman’s Azadi March is as wrong as the Prime Minister Imran Khan’s sit-in was in 2014.
The former federal interior minister expressed that it was not difficult for the religious parties to assemble a sit-in. He added that changing the government through the protests would lead to a false tradition. “Next sit-in will be staged when the previous one ends”, he added.
Chaudhry Nisar Ali asserted that nowadays politics have more hypocrisy than truth. “Imran Khan has put the wrong tradition of dharna”, he criticized adding if government should be changed through protests.
“The government and the police have the capability to stop such kind of sit-ins if they stand together”, he added.
Meanwhile, the former interior minister went on to say that our country is surrounded by many security issues. “It is not a valid decision to allow Indian Sikhs to enter Pakistan without a passport”, he added.
