
# ​'Housefull 4' box office collection Day 13: The Akshay Kumar starrer continues to hold well on the weekdays

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:37:18+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/housefull-4-box-office-collection-day-13-the-akshay-kumar-starrer-continues-to-hold-well-on-the-weekdays/articleshow/71952136.cms)

Continuing its dominance at the box office, Akshay Kumar starrer comedy-drama 'Housefull' is maintaining its successful run on the weekdays. The Farhad Samji directorial which features an ensemble star cast is inching towards the Rs 200 crore mark and look sure to enter into the ambitious club.

        Read Also:
        Housefull 4 Movie Review : Not so full of comedy
      
As per the latest report on the Boxofficeindia.com, on Wednesday, the film has raked in Rs 4 crore on its thirteenth day at the box office. The weekdays are seeing falls of 15% but the film is still collecting very well. The film has managed to collect a total of Rs 181.11 crore in thirteen days at the box office.
'Housefull 4' looks all set to emerge as the highest-grossing comedy film, surpassing the nett collection of 'Golmaal Again.' The film has already beaten the numbers of the Rohit Shetty directorial in some circuits. The film is going to do its best business in the Mumbai circuit which may finish at Rs 70 crore plus.
The film will also be the highest grosser of Akshay Kumar and will probably achieve the feat in the third weekend.
Directed by Farhad Samji, ‘Housefull 4’ boasts of an ensemble star cast that includes, Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon, Riteish Deshmukh, Kriti Kharbanda, Bobby Deol, Pooja Hegde in the lead roles. The film is the fourth installment of the hit comedy franchise. The film hits the screens on October 25 and clashed at the box office with Rajkummar Rao's 'Made In China' and Taapsee Pannu-Bhumi Pednekar's 'Saand Ki Aankh'.
