
# Erasmus' All Blacks admission: 'Terrible build-up' sparked Boks

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:37:37+00:00**

Author: **Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/erasmus-all-blacks-admission-terrible-build-up-sparked-boks)

The mastermind behind the Springboks’ inspirational Rugby World Cup campaign – Rassie Erasmus – says that it was a dire run-up to their loss to the All Blacks that ultimately ignited their tournament.
South Africa’s director of rugby, said after the team’s ultimately crushing, 32-12 victory over England in Japan that the team had been inspired by the opportunity to bring some light and joy into the daily lives of their fellow countrymen.
However, Erasmus says it was the All Blacks loss that effectively made their Rugby World Cup.
He said it had been the mental shift the team needed after the disappointment of defeat in the opening match against New Zealand – a performance the Springboks turned on its head by becoming the first team to win the title after losing a pool match.
“The first All Black game was a great test run for us in terms of handling pressure,” said Erasmus.

        Click here to see the video
      
“We were terrible in that week in terms of talking about things and getting tense – it was a terrible build up that told us a lot about how to play the play offs.
“We were quite honest with one another about that. We started to talk a lot about what is pressure.
“In South Africa, pressure is not having a job or if one of your close relatives is murdered. In South Africa there are a lot of problems, which is pressure. We started talking about things like that.
“Rugby shouldn’t be something that creates pressure; it should be something that creates hope. We have a privilege of giving hope – it’s not a burden.”
