
# #MansuhTouchNGo trends on Twitter as PLUS reload booths scrapped starting today (VIDEO)

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:17:43+00:00**

Author: **BY KENNETH TEE**

Original: [Malaymail](https://www.malaymail.com/news/malaysia/2019/11/05/mansuhtouchngo-trends-on-twitter-as-plus-reload-booths-scrapped-starting-to/1807117)

KUALA LUMPUR, Nov 5 — The recent announcement by PLUS Malaysia Berhad (PLUS) on the abolishment of Touch ‘n Go (TnG) reload facilities at all toll plaza exit lanes starting today seems to have rekindled public criticism against the electronic cashless payment system.
Online, the #MansuhTouchNGo hashtag (Malay for “abolish TnG”) joined Twitter’s trending topics today as Malaysians complain about limited top-up alternatives and unreasonable surcharge.
Touch 'N Go Sdn Bhd’s parent company is CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.
Despite the fact that it was PLUS that closed the reload booths, many Malaysians chose to blame TnG for the apparent inconvenience.
PLUS escaped the brunt of the criticism, as Twitter users took aim at TnG.
“Now, let's hold big corporations accountable for their sh*tty services. They've managed to get away with providing subpar services for so long, that consumers are the ones paying the price,” said a top tweet by @aidathecat.
“CIMB has had so many data breaches, if they can barely fortify their system and update their tech what makes us think they'll bother with TnG?” asked musician Takahara Suiko of The Venopian Solitude on her account.
Among the top comments were users calling the system a “scam”.
“TouchNGo is a scam. If you don’t use it in a year, your card is invalid, your money is ‘burnt’,” said user @AlongEasy.
 
