
# [Update: November 2019] The best Android TV boxes you can buy today

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:02:25+00:00**

Author: **Ben Schoon**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/06/best-android-tv-set-top-box/)

Android TV is built into dozens of different TV models, but if you’ve already got a panel you’re happy with, there’s no reason to upgrade just for software. With a simple HDMI port, you can refresh your TV with Android TV powering the experience. Here are the best Android TV set-top boxes in 2019 you can do that with.
There are Android TV products available in all shapes and sizes. From high-end TVs to the boxes sold by pay-TV operators, Google’s platform is growing quickly. In this roundup, though, we’re just taking a look at set-top boxes that anyone can buy for any TV.

        
      
The Nvidia Shield TV has long been a favorite in the streaming space and in late 2019, it’s gotten a huge update. The third generation of the Shield TV comes in two form factors each with a different price tag too.
For the 2019 revision, there’s the standard Shield TV which is a compact device designed to fit basically anywhere in your setup and is essentially just a streaming device. The other new Shield TV is a proper set-top box with the same design as the previous models and both come with the same Android TV software.
The smaller Shield TV comes with the Tegra X1+ chipset, a microSD card slot, 8GB of storage, 2GB of RAM, and Android TV with Pie. That provides more than enough power and storage for all your favorite streaming apps — Amazon Prime Video included — and it an even handle games at 4K HDR. The new Shield can even handle Dolby Vision and Atmos as well.
The larger Shield TV Pro has mostly the same hardware, but with USB 3.0 ports for further expansion, 16GB of storage, and 3GB of RAM. The Pro is definitely the one to get if you want to use it as a Plex server too.
Both devices also offer a powerful upscaling feature that uses AI to deliver stunning quality on basically everything you watch.
