
# 'It makes sense doesn't it' - RFU chief admits England keen on Eddie Jones beyond 2021

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:53:37+00:00**

Author: **By Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/it-makes-sense-doesnt-it-rfu-chief-admits-england-keen-on-eddie-jones-beyond-2021)

Eddie Jones will remain England head coach until at least 2021 and possibly beyond after his performance at the World Cup received the approval of Twickenham.
Rugby Football Union chief executive Bill Sweeney wants Jones to see out his contract and hinted at the prospect of a new deal being agreed that will keep him in charge for France 2023.
England were overrun 32-12 by South Africa in Saturday’s World Cup final but dismantled Australia and New Zealand en route to reaching the Yokohama showpiece.
Jones has also masterminded one Grand Slam and a Six Nations title since replacing Stuart Lancaster at the end of 2015 and Sweeney still views him as the outstanding candidate for the job.
“Eddie’s one of the world’s best coaches – if not the best – despite the result against South Africa,” Sweeney said.

        Click here to see the video
      
“One of the first priorities when we get back will be to sit down and have a chat. We will do it as a matter of urgency.
“Eddie is committed to his contract through to the end of August 2021 and he is fulfilling that.
“There are a lot of emotions flying around after a game so let the dust settle a little bit and then see where his head’s at, see how he feels about it.
“But the first step is to honour that contract through to 2021 and then we’ll discuss what goes on beyond that.”
When asked about the wisdom of appointing a coach for an entire World Cup cycle rather than for a two-year spell, Sweeney said: “It makes sense doesn’t it?
