
# SpecFix: Welcome to the H2G2 universe

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/opinion/others/specfix-welcome-to-the-h2g2-universe/articleshow/71844155.cms)

By TG ShenoyForty years after it was published, the Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy remains as popular as ever Forty years ago, in October 1979, one of the best, most enjoyable books ever – science fiction or otherwise – The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy was published. What began life as a radio show a year prior to that, has since become a beloved classic. Over the course of the three years since the first book was published, Douglas Adams’s ‘trilogy’ would encompass four fabulous books: The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy; The Restaurant at the End of the Universe; Life, the Universe and Everything and So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish. Finally in 1992, Douglas Adams would add a fifth book, Mostly Harmless, to make it The Hitchhiker’s Guide To The Galaxy world’s first ‘trilogy in five parts’. How is that even possible, for a trilogy to have 5 parts? Therein lies the irreverent charm of H2G2, the slightly Bollywood-ish convenient acronym by which the series is also referred to by fans. It may be four decades old, but H2G2 still retains its freshness, remains still as relevant and hilariously fun to read as it was when it was first published, with lakhs of new readers giving in to its evergreen appeal and falling for its charm. H2G2’s counts amongst its fans scientists, film stars, musicians, famous writers, politicians and readers and geeks of all hues. Asteroids, animals and songs have been named after its characters. The world’s first online translation service, Babelfish was named after the alien fish that people in H2G2 would stick in their ears to understand anything said in any form of language. Deep Thought, the first computer to beat a Grandmaster in a competitive game of chess, was named after a computer of the same name in H2G2 that was created to compute The Answer to The Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything (the answer is 42 by the way). Elon Musk has named SpaceX’s first Mars-bound ship Heart Of Gold as a tribute to H2G2. Thousands across the world celebrate Towel Day every year on May 25, carrying a towel with them all the time. What explains H2G2’s undying, enduring appeal? Is it the satire? The deadpan commentary on life, the universe and everything that Douglas Adams provides? Is it his trenchant style and immensely prescient observations about everything from politics and people to society and technology? Is it because H2G2 gives you immensely practical tips on many things, such as the art of flying (It’s simple: The knack lies in learning how to throw yourself at the ground and missing it) or tell you things to avoid, like Vogon Poetry. Is it the way H2G2 challenges our preconceived notions of superiority: that Earth isn’t special in any way but an utterly insignificant little blue-green planet best described as ‘mostly harmless’ and demolished to make way for a hyperspatial express space route right at the beginning of the trilogy; that Humans aren’t special either or even the most intelligent creatures on this planet (that would be the mice, with dolphins in at second). Well, to ask such questions would be futile – as futile as trying to find out what the exact question is, for which ‘42’ is the answer. Because the genius of Douglas Adams and the beauty of H2G2 is a sum of all these and much more. If you haven’t read H2G2 yet, you’re in for a treat. Prepare to find yourself laughing out loud and to actually find out what God’s Final Message to His Creation is. If you have read H2G2, then you know now is as good a time as any to re-read it, for it only gets better each time. But whatever you do, remember: Don’t Panic.
