
# Blow for Windows 10 on ARM as Snapdragon Samsung Galaxy Book S rumoured to be cancelled in favour of Intel version

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Surur**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/samsung-galaxy-book-s-availability/)

We have new news about the Samsung Galaxy Book S availability. In August Samsung announced the Samsung Galaxy Book S, a 13-inch Qualcomm-powered Always Connected PC.
Powered by a Snapdragon 8cx processor, it offered 23-hour battery life, features built-in LTE, had 8 GB of RAM, 256 or 512 GB storage and up to 1 TB of  expandable storage and only weighs 0.96 kg (2 pounds.)
The laptop was meant to hit the market in September, but our readers may have noticed it is November and the only new ARM laptop is the Surface Pro X, with no news about the Samsung Galaxy Book S availability.
Now DrWindows reports that Samsung has become rather cagey regarding the device. When asked when it will hit the market they merely said:
Given that the device is already two months delayed, “coming months” suggests a release sometime in 2020.
This is also when an Intel Lakefield-powered Samsung Galaxy Book S, announced by Intel at the end of October, is expected to arrive.
Then Intel said:
Putting two and two together DrWindows suggests the ARM-powered device may have been cancelled, similar to how the Lenovo Yoga C630 with Snapdragon 850 was delayed until it was replaced with the C640 with an Intel CPU and that next time we hear about the Samsung Galaxy Book S availability it will be with an Intel processor.
Given how poorly the Surface Pro X, which features a customized Qualcomm CPU, was reviewed, the move may be for the best.
What do our readers think? Let us know below.
