
# MSL 2019 | Bavuma appointed as captain of defending champions Jozi Stars

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:36:32+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/msl-2019-bavuma-appointed-as-captain-of-defending-champions-jozi-stars?utm_medium=rss)


        South Africa international Temba Bavuma has been named as the skipper of defending champions Jozi Stars for the second edition of Mzansi Super League. While this move has fuelled the talks of Bavuma’s succession of Test captaincy, Quinton de Kock felt that this would boost the batsman’s confidence.
      
The champions of the inaugural edition of the Mzansi Super League, Jozi Stars have appointed Temba Bavuma to lead their quest of defending the title in the second edition. Bavuma comes in from Durban Heat to replace Dane Vials who led the Stars to the title.
The Test vice-captain of the Proteas have been taunted as the successor of Faf du Plessis as the Test captain and his appointment as the skipper of the Stars has come as a nod to leadership qualities further feeling the talks. Bavuma captained the Lions across formats last season while he also leads the South Africa A side which toured India recently.
The recently concluded Test series against India has dented the confidence of many Proteas players and Bavuma is no exception. He was first promoted up the order before settling down in his regular position of No. while all he managed was a string of low scores. Bavuma has had a very quiet Test career so far as he hasn’t reached three figures after his maiden ton in his seventh Test match. Bavuma has an underwhelming average of 31.24 in as many as 39 Test matches.
South Africa keeper batsman who has been appointed as the captain of Cape Town Blitz has expected that Bavuma will regain his confidence through the MSL.
"A lot of guys are under pressure [in the Test team], it's not just Temba," Quinton de Kock told ESPNCricinfo. "A guy like Temba is now been seen as playing all three formats and I'm sure he will play MSL to try and get his confidence back.
"Temba has played enough cricket and he is old enough now - it's not like we are dealing with a youngster - he has gone through the ups and downs of playing professional cricket. Temba is a relatively good space. He didn't score the runs he would have wanted to but I think he understands what he needs to get done to be at his peak again."
It seems like MSL which is an important part of Cricket South Africa’s talent identifying structure is now being used to groom the future leaders of the national side. While Bavuma is being groomed for leadership at the Stars, de Kock, who is also being touted as a future national captain, has been appointed as Cape Town Blitz skipper.
