
# Tories push fake news doctored video of Labour's Keir Starmer

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:55:18+00:00**

Author: **Mikey Smith, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mikey-smith/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/tories-push-fake-news-doctored-20818433)

The Conservative Party has pushed out a fake news video edited to make it appear Labour's Sir Keir Starmer is unclear on the party's Brexit policy.
In a doctored video, tweeted on the Tories' official account and already viewed more than 200,000 times on Twitter , the party inserted several seconds of Sir Keir's face in silence after a question during a TV news interview.
The original GMB interview saw host Piers Morgan ask Labour 's Shadow Brexit Secretary why he thought the EU would give Labour a good deal if there was a risk they'd campaign against it in a second referendum.
In reality, Sir Keir immediately replied: "Well, Piers, I have been talking to the EU, to political leaders across the EU 27 countries for the last three years, and I know very well what the parameters are of any deal they would do with a Labour government.
"We actually explored some of it in the cross-party talks that we were in with the government six months or so ago.
"So I know that a customs union and single market alignment, and protection of workers' rights and environmental rights and consumer rights is something that can be negotiated."
 
But in the fake video, footage of Sir Keir was inserted after the question, with the slogan "Labour has no plan for Brexit".
After it was pointed out on Twitter that Sir Keir had in fact answered the question, Mr Morgan replied: "Correct, he did, albeit not very convincingly - but the way this has been edited is misleading & unfair to Keir Starmer."
But the party's press office doubled down, refusing to address the doctoring of the footage, and saying: "There have been some enquiries about the veracity of Keir Starmer’s interview this morning where he was unable to explain Labour’s plan to delay Brexit.
"Believe it or not, this car crash interview did really take place."
Speaking earlier on the Today Programme, Sir Keir said he is confident Labour can negotiate a new Brexit deal with the EU within three months if they win power at the General Election on December 12.
In a speech in Harlow, Jeremy Corbyn will reaffirm Labour's commitment to get a new agreement and put it to the public in a new referendum within six months of taking office.
Sir Keir said he believed the timetable was "very realistic", with negotiations on a new deal being completed within three months.
"I have been talking to officials in the (European) Commission for the best part of three years and to very senior politicians in all the EU 27 countries," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.
"I know very well what the parameters of a deal are. I am confident, first, that it can be secured and second that it can be secured within a very short period of time.
"I am confident that this can be done in three months. I actually think it will take a lot less."
Sir Keir said a no-deal Brexit was not off the table even with the Prime Minister's Withdrawal Agreement.
The opposition frontbench minister said: "Johnson's deal also poses a further risk. A huge risk - a trap door to no deal.
"No 10 are now so obsessed with chasing the Brexit Party that they confirmed yesterday that a Tory majority government will not extend the transition period.
"It means the Tories would only have until July - just seven months - to negotiate the whole future economic and security relationship with the EU.
"That's some task, particularly after failing for the last three-and-a-half years."
And he defended Labour's Brexit position telling supporters it was "straightforward".
He said it would be possible to do a deal with the European Union "quickly" if Labour is elected to government.
"Next, we will secure the best possible deal, including a customs union, single market alignment and protection for rights and the environment," he said.
"People challenge me that such a deal is not possible. I absolutely reject that.
"Having had many hours of discussions with political leaders across Europe, I am confident that such a deal can be secured and secured quickly."
Sir Keir, addressing the public vote his party would put a deal to, said: "The public will have the final say on a very straight-forward question - do you want to leave with the deal that has been secured? Or would you rather stay in the EU? And the result will be binding."
