
# Best Ski Travel: 5 Most Important New Ski Hotels This Winter

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Larry Olmsted**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/larryolmsted/2019/11/03/best-ski-travel-5-most-important-new-ski-hotels-this-winter/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2818743008&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

While skiing and snowboarding remain popular and a must-do annual vacation trip for many fans, notable new hotel openings are generally few and far between. In the average year, the big destination resorts like Vail, Park City and Telluride get no new hotels at all, so in that sense, this is a banner year with several high profile openings at some of the most famous and popular resorts in the U.S, including Aspen, Jackson Hole and Breckenridge. Overseas, the big news is the push (finally) of name brand North American luxury hotels companies into markets they have typically ignored, the Alps and fast-trending Japan, which continues to break tourism record and is arguably the best ski destinations on the planet, and unarguably the hottest - with the most snow.
Here are the latest and great new openings of the 2019-2020 ski and snowboard season.
Niseko, Japan - Park Hyatt Niseko Hanazono: This is a biggie! For some odd reason it has taken Americans decades to figure out what Australian ski travelers have long known, which is that Japan gets the most snow in the world, it’s dry, and locals oddly prefer groomers to deep powder, leaving vast quantities of it untracked and in plain view, whereas here in the U.S. it would be torn up quickly. All the resorts in Japan - and there are a ton - get lots and lots of snow, but the deepest is on the northern island of Hokkaido, which hosted the Sapporo Winter Olympic Games, and the biggest and best known of all the resorts there is Niseko. In some ways it has been a victim of its own success, losing much of the Japanese character you can still find in Nagano and other ski areas in Japan, becoming a big, Westernized resort village in the style of Whistler, where it can be easier to find tacos than takoyaki.
Not surprisingly, Niseko was the choice for the first Western luxury hotel brand entering the Japanese ski market, in the form of the new Park Hyatt (reservations starting January 20). Park is Hyatt’s top tier brand, and remains somewhat underappreciated here in the U.S. but is a fabulous and legitimately luxurious product, and I’ve stayed at Park Hyatts everywhere from Buenos Aires to Tokyo and have generally been wowed (read my detailed reviews of the Park Hyatt DC here, Tokyo here, Buenos Aires here and Vienna here).They have been especially successful in Japan, where the Tokyo hotel, famous as the setting for the movie Lost in Translation, is fantastic, and the Kyoto Park Hyatt gets rave reviews. There are already good places to stay in Niseko, but for travelers who want the familiarity and consistency of a top international luxury brand, the Park Hyatt jumps right to the top of the list.
It is also refreshingly Japanese in both style and offerings. The Park Hyatt Niseko Hanazono looks to be pulling out all the stops and has oversized luxuriously appointed guestrooms and suites, with lots of floor to ceiling glass and panoramic mountain views, while the high-end signature suites have their own private onsens (traditional Japanese hot springs bath). There is also a general onsen for the hotel, a full spa and fitness center, and for a property with just 100 rooms and suites, they have an impressive array of facilities, including eight different restaurants, plus three more bars and lounges, and while they do have the obligatory Italian, an impressive four of them are distinctly Japanese, something badly needed in Niseko. There is a chef driven concept showcasing Hokkaido’s famous local seafood, as well as teppanyaki spot, a robata grill, a sushi place and even a Chinese restaurant featuring hand pulled noodles and Sichuan hot pot. They have a great ski-in/out location on one of the world’s great ski resorts with full staffed ski valet, and also offer nearby backcountry sno-cat day trips. If you are going all the way to Niseko to ski - and you should - then you want to stay at least 5-7 days, and this is the kind of place you can so it in style without getting bored.
Jackson Hole, WY - Continuum Hotel: It’s hard to beat the ski-in/ski-out convenience of slopeside Teton Village, the upscale enclave at the base of what many consider the single best ski resort in the nation, Jackson Hole Mountain Resort, whereas the larger (and utterly charming) town of Jackson is a good 20 minute drive away. That’s why hotels like the Four Seasons (read a detailed review here), Teton Mountain Lodge and Hotel Terra have staked out prime real estate here. One of the last mid-market hotels in the village was the nondescript Inn at Jackson Hole, which closed and has been completely reborn, returning this season as the Continuum Hotel. It has a very good location at the far skier’s right side of the village, next to the Hotel Terra (read more about what makes Jackson Hole one of the world’s best ski resorts here).
Interestingly the Continuum is a first if its kind partnership with Teton Gravity Research, TGR, the legendary ski and snowboard action film maker based here. The planned opening day is November 29 - the same day the mountain opens for skiing - yet details are still surprisingly sketchy, but the Continuum seems to be positioning itself as one of the new breed of Millennial/Gen Z-focused lifestyle hotels, with modern, functional, and comfortable rooms that are sleek and stylish and have upscale bathroom amenities but do not aspire to compete with the Four Seasons across the way. Instead, it boasts of having a “killer bar and lounge” and “a staff that rocks” and plans on serving “as Teton Village’s year-round home base for adventure enthusiasts that love all things Jackson.” The Continuum will offer mostly king rooms as well as larger lofts and rooms with kitchenettes, is pet friendly, and has a heated pool, hot tub and fitness center. The all new restaurant will feature an exhibition kitchen, but while the rooms and lofts are all complete, the restaurant, bar, pool complex and fitness center will lag slightly behind the grand opening with a planned debut in early December. The Continuum also offer some interesting packages that include lift tickets in the rates.
Megeve, France - Les Chalets du Mont d’Arbois, a Four Seasons Hotel: Just as the Park Hyatt Niseko represents the first top North American luxury brand into the Japanese market, the same holds true for Four Seasons’ 2017 ski debut in the French Alps, the Four Seasons Megeve. The brand already had a stellar ski resort track record, as the Four Seasons Jackson Hole is one of just three Forbes 5-Star ski-in/out properties in the world (read a detailed review here), and the Four Seasons properties in Whistler (read more here) and Vail are no slouches either. But the Alps are uncharted territory and especially important because most of the fabled grand ski hotels people have heard of, such as Badrutt’s Palace in St. Moritz, the Alpina Gstaad and the Victoria-Jungfrau in Interlaken, which are all great, are not actually located at (or in some cases even close to) actual lifts.
The Western luxury concept of ski-in/out full-service hotels is a rarity in the Alps (Courchevel 1850 and its staggering array being an exception) and that is what made the Four Seasons Megeve so relevant to American travelers for the past two winters. On December 13 it is getting a new and even tonier sibling, Les Chalets du Mont d’Arbois, a Four Seasons Hotel.
The property is an eight-figure renovation of a family-owned hotel comprised of historic chalets belonging to the Edmond de Rothschild family, and will debut in mid-December. The boutique hotel consists of three large chalets, Eve, Noemie and Alice. Eve is the main building and includes 25 guest rooms and suites, a 1-star Michelin restaurant, Prima, and spa with indoor/outdoor pool. Alice and Noemie have sixteen more rooms and suites between them, and both are set up so they can be booked as private takeovers.
The larger 2-year old sibling hotel is very family friendly with an over the top kids club, children’s pool and lots of activities aimed at youngsters. It claims to be the only hotel in Megeve with a full modern ski valet and even has special house cars with treads instead of tires for short jaunts across the snow. There is a 24-hour fitness center with TechnoGym gear, full lavish spa by La Prairie, and après ski is a big deal here, with indoor and outdoor dining and bar spots with incredible views. Guest of the new chalets will likely find themselves making the trip over here, as the Four Seasons Megeve has Michelin 2-star Le 1920 and several other dining options including a Japanese eatery, lobby lounge, French Alps-themed bar and a whisky and brandy laden cigar lounge.
Megeve has been known as an escapist destination for the rich and famous for 100 years. It is one of Europe’s worst kept ski secrets, a “hidden gem” everyone knows about, with views of Mont Blanc, a charming village, and shockingly uncrowded slopes. It seems the perfect place for a Four Seasons with just one problem: Megeve is known as a beginner area and has very little in the way of challenging terrain. A veteran ski guide in nearby Chamonix told me that if I went here as an advanced skier I would be bored after one day. It is however, also close enough to the other resorts around Chamonix to mix things up. Otherwise both Four Seasons properties offer turnkey luxury ski vacations, and Megeve is easy to get to, just over an hour from Geneva, which is home to both one of the finest Four Seasons in Europe (expect lots of pairing packages with these properties) and one of my favorite family-owned luxury gems, the Hotel d’Angleterre (detailed review here).
Aspen, CO - W Aspen & The Sky Residences: It’s been eleven year since the last new hotel of note opened in this world famous ski town (the Limelight in 2008), which makes the new W (now open) - a rebuild of the Sky Hotel - notable. It is also notable for frequent travelers because W Hotels is part of Marriott, which operates Bonvoy, the biggest frequent stay program in the high-end travel world.
I recently wrote a detailed article about the new W Aspen which you can read here, but here’s an overview. It sits at the end of Durant Street within walking distance of the lifts at Aspen Mountain (Ajax) and is the brand's second "Mountain Escape" resort, following W Verbier in the Swiss Alps. It is focused on being hip and cool and very, very après, and the showpiece feature is the WET Deck, a year-round, all-weather, Vegas-style public rooftop complex with heated pool, hot tub, fire pits, cabanas, bar, dance floor and DJ booth. The Sky Hotel’s popular 39 Degrees après ski bar has been repositioned as an underground “ultra-lounge cocktail bar and grotto” inspired by the Red-Light District from Aspen’s days as a 19th century hell raising silver mining outpost. The second floor Living Room, which has with couches, bar shuffleboard and an outdoor terrace with fire pits, is expected to be another big après ski hotpot.
The W Aspen & The Sky Residences is a contemporary take on the chalet concept, with plenty of stone and wood, alongside modern art, bold patterns and bright colors. It has 88 guestrooms, 11 residences and five “WOW suites.” There is an in-house ski and snowboard shop, and well-equipped modern fitness center, but no spa, normally a fixture of top tier ski town properties.
Breckenridge, CO - Gravity Haus Breckenridge: Breckenridge vies annually with sister resort Vail as the single most popular ski destination in the U.S., has the highest lift served terrain and one of the longest seasons in the country, and is by every standard a wildly popular vacation destination, with a cool Old West mining town vibe, lots of good bars and restaurants, and tons of terrain for all abilities (read more about Breckenridge here). What it has lacked, with the notable exception of the excellent and luxurious One Ski Hill Place, is good hotels.
That’s why the debut of Gravity Haus is newsworthy. It’s an odd concept, a “social club and hotel for modern outdoor enthusiasts,” opening next month (December) and planned as the first of several future Gravity Haus properties. The ski-in/ski-out lodging replaces the nondescript Village Hotel and is located at the base of Peak 9, within walking distance of both the QuickSilver SuperChair lift and Breckenridge’s historic and impressive Main Street. It describes itself as “the first and only, four-season adventure lifestyle social club and hotel in Colorado” and claims to be “an entirely new hospitality concept fusing guided outdoor adventures and tech-forward conveniences.”
Capitalizing on the current craze for experiential travel, the 60-room hotel will offer activities such as backcountry hut trips and has established strategic partnerships with top shelf outdoor companies including Icelandic Skis, Never Summer Snowboards, K2 Skis and the Faction Collective. The hotel will be managed by Breckenridge owner Vail Resorts, which already does a great job with properties such as One Ski Hill Place here and the fantastic Arrabelle in Vail. It has a full ski valet and rental shop, all tied into the hotel’s multi-pronged mobile app. Rooms feature black-out curtains and tech-forward conveniences, including conveniently designed power stations, fiber-powered wireless internet, and digital guest services access. It’s positioned as a sort of 4-star experience, with eco-conscious touches and extras such as EO Essential Oil’s Zero Waste body and bath products, synthetic-free linens, robes and sandals. There’s a full-service restaurant featuring local products and craft cocktails, a Japanese onsen-inspired complex of four hot tubs and a cold tub, an infrared sauna and two features I have never seen at another ski hotel, a hyperbaric chamber and NormaTec compression sleeves for muscle recovery. These are part of Dryland Sports, a high-tech fitness and sports recovery center with small group classes yoga, and personal fitness coaching. 
