
# Suryakumar Yadav named Mumbai skipper for Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:46:46+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/suryakumar-yadav-named-mumbai-skipper-for-syed-mushtaq-ali-trophy?utm_medium=rss)


        Suryakumar Yadav has been named as the captain of the 15-member Mumbai tea,m announced by the Mumbai Cricket Association, for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament that will begin from November 8. Yadav was in scintillating form in the Vijay Hazare Trophy and will be hoping to perform the same way.
      
After an impressive IPL 2019 season with the Mumbai Indians and an impressive Vijay Hazare Trophy, Suryakumar Yadav will lead the Mumbai team in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament as a 15-member squad was announced by the Mumbai Cricket Association for the same. Yashasvi Jaiswal and pacer Tushar Deshpande are the notable absentees from the squad.
Aditya Tare, Jay Bista, Siddhesh Lad and Sarfaraz Khan have retained their places in the squad. The bowling department consists of pacer Dhawal Kulkarni and spinners like Dhrumil Matkar and Shams Mulani.
Mumbai will look to make a strong start in this traditional T20 tournament under the guidance of coach Vinayak Samant. With T20 World Cup next year in Australia, this is a chance for fringe players like Suryakumar Yadav to make a case for himself for a place in the Indian T20 team by delivering some noticable performances.
The squad: Suryakumar Yadav (captain), Jay Bista, Aditya Tare, Sarfaraz Khan, Jaideep Pardeshi, Siddhesh Lad, Shubham Ranjane, Shams Mulani, Parikshit Valsangkar, Raunaq Sharma, Dhaval Kulkarni, Kruthik Hangewadi, Deepak Shetty, Aquib Qureshi and Dhrumil Matkar.
