
# Greggs' Christmas 2019 menu includes pigs in blankets baguettes and more

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:19:37+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/food-drink-news/greggs-christmas-2019-menu-includes-17213288)

The Festive Bake is back. And so are Pigs Under Blanket Baguettes, Christmas Lunch Soup and many more Greggs’ seasonal favourites.
And to make Christmas 2019 even more appetising, Greggs has added plenty of new sweet treats to lift your festive spirits from Chocolate Tiffin and Sweet Mince Pies and Penguin Biscuits.
Greggs operates dozens of bakery shops across Birmingham and throughout the Midlands.

        Festive Bake
      

        From £1.55
      

        453 calories
      
The all-time festive favourite pastry is back! Enjoy succulent pieces of chicken breast, sage & onion stuffing and sweetcure bacon in a creamy sage and cranberry sauce. All encased in golden puff pastry with a crunchy crumb topping .

        
           
        
      
Sweet Mince Pies From 50p each / 6 for £1.75 (1 pack) / 12 for £3 (2 packs) 281 calories each Nothing says Christmas quite like a traditional mince pie. Tuck into a deliciously crumbly shortcrust pastry, filled with sweet mincemeat made from vine fruits, Bramley apple, candied orange and lemon peel. These are vegan friendly too!

        Pigs in Blankets (selected shops only)
      

        From £2.25
      

        325 calories
      
Is it even Christmas without these festive favourites? Tuck into a tub of succulent pork sausages wrapped in smoked streaky bacon.

        Christmas Lunch Sandwich
      

        From £2.75
      

        497 calories
      
Enjoy a classic Christmas sandwich complete with delicious sliced turkey breast with pork, sage & onion stuffing, sweetcure bacon, fresh salad leaves with a cranberry and port sauce and mayonnaise on malted bread.

        Pigs Under Blanket Baguette 
      

        From £3.00
      

        583 calories
      
Made up of some of our favourite festive ingredients, this quirky take on a classic is a baguette filled with succulent pork sausages, sweetcure bacon, pork, sage and onion stuffing with a cranberry and port sauce.
 

        Christmas Lunch Soup 
      

        From £1.90
      

        159 calories (Balanced Choice, Gluten Free, 1 of your 5 a day)
      
Enjoy all the traditional Christmas dinner favourites in a heart-warming soup, made with smoked bacon, chicken, turkey, sage & onion stuffing, pork sausage, vegetables, herbs and spices. 

        Salted Caramel Latte 
      

        From £2.75
      
223 calories (12oz), 248 calories (16oz) A deliciously sweet treat to brighten up dark wintery days - made with freshly ground Fairtrade coffee, milk with a salted caramel flavour syrup and topped with cream and a yummy shortbread crumb.

        Mint Mocha
      

        From £2.20
      
346 calories (12oz) Try a minty twist on your morning coffee with a tasty mix of freshly ground Fairtrade coffee, milk and hot chocolate flavoured drink, with mint flavoured syrup and topped with cream and sugar sprinkles.

        Mint Hot Chocolate
      

        From £2.75
      
334 calories (12oz) Warm up this winter with a hot chocolate flavoured drink made with milk, mint flavoured syrup, topped with cream and sugar sprinkles.

         
      

        Christmas Tiffin Bites
      

        From £1.50 (6 pack)
      

        92 calories per serving
      
These little bites of chocolatey perfection make a fabulous festive indulgence. Pieces of biscuit, shortbread and sultanas are enveloped in a Belgian dark chocolate and topped with Belgian milk chocolate.

        Christmas Shortbread Bites From £2.25
      

        95 calories a piece
      
Mini shortbreads topped with caramel sauce, Belgian Milk Chocolate and finished with a gold coloured decoration to add sparkle to your displays at Christmas.

         
      

        Christmas Tree Biscuit 
      

        From 85p
      

        174 calories per serving
      
A deliciously moreish ginger biscuit covered in Belgian Milk chocolate and decorated with sugar ball sprinkles and a sugar paste star.

        Christmas Cake Slice
      

        From £2.75         
      
417 calories per serving Who could resist a little slice of Christmas on-the-go? This rich, festive fruit cake boasts delicious ground almonds and is topped with almond marzipan, apricot jam and white icing.

        Christmas Ring Bun      
      

        From 85p each or 4 for £2.75 (1 pack)
      

        213 calories per serving                                                
      
A favourite with Greggs customers every year, these vanilla flavoured fairy buns are decorated with not just fondant icing but are hand finished with sugar sprinkles and a festive novelty ring.
(Toys/decorations are non-edible, unsuitable for children under 36 months due to choking hazard).

        Christmas Novelty Biscuit
      

        From 85p
      

        196 calories per serving
      
Greggs’ delicious star-shaped caramel biscuits are coated in smooth Belgian milk chocolate and topped with yummy sprinkles – a real star of wonder for Christmas 2019!
 

        Penguin Biscuit
      

        From £1.50 (2 pack)
      

        199 calories per serving
      
Thaw out from the artic temperatures this festive season and treat yourself to a penguin shaped caramel flavour biscuit coated with scrummy Belgian milk chocolate. The crunchy biscuit-y snack makes the perfect accompaniment to your Greggs coffee.
