
# Chief Minister, B S Yediyurappa launches emergency helpline

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-launches-emergency-helpline/articleshow/71844278.cms)

Chief Minister, B S Yediyurappa on Thursday launched the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) number 112, a single emergency helpline across the state. He flagged off 30 vehicles to respond to 112 calls. The emergency number was launched by the Centre under the One India One emergency scheme. All distress and emergency calls across the state will be received here and will be sent out to district control centres from where nearest emergency vehicles will be dispatched. The system is designed to respond to any SOS calls like police, ambulance, fire, traffic, any help in remote locations and to report suspicious moments. It is an automated system which will be addressing distress calls in the form of SMS, voice call, web request, e-mail and panic SOS request. All calls will be monitored at the communication, logistic and modernisation office at Anil Kumble Circle on MG Road. The Chief Minister said that the number will be helpful to all citizens, especially physically challenged and working women. DG and IGP, Neelamani N Raju told the media that the helplines 100, 101 and 108 and other toll-free numbers will eventually be merged with the 112 emergency helpline number . A total of 183 emergency vehicles have been deployed across the state, which will be raised to 500. People can download the 112 India app on their smartphones and send panic signals in case of an emergency. The app will then send out messages to all emergency contacts. To place a call to the control room, they can press the power button three times.
