
# ‘Housefull 4’ box office collection Day 9: Akshay Kumar starrer comedy leaps to Rs 155 crore

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:53:32+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/housefull-4-box-office-collection-day-9-akshay-kumar-starrer-comedy-leaps-to-rs-155-crore/articleshow/71876157.cms)

‘Housefull 4’ hit the screens on the festive occasion of Diwali and has clocked good numbers in nine days at the box office. The Akshay Kumar starrer opened to mixed reviews on October 25 but is going strong with collections. According to the latest report on Boxofficeindia.com, ‘Housefull 4’ has raked in a double digit figure on its second Saturday adding Rs 10 crore to its mammoth total. The film however didn’t record a massive growth and even in the Gujarat circuit, ‘Housefull 4’ didn’t see a positive trend as it is still a holiday there.

        
          Housefull 4 Movie Review : Not so full of comedy
        
      
Directed by Farhan Samji, the film registered Rs 18 crore in its second weekend, which means that ‘Housefull 4’ has had an impressive second weekend which is better than the second week of most films this year. The report stated that in nine days at the box office, ‘Housefull 4’ had collected a total of Rs 155.25 crore nett and the Mumbai circuit will hit Rs 60 crore nett in ten days. While the collection in Delhi and UP will be a little over Rs 30 crore nett, owing to the dull business in those markets due to pre-Diwali season.
‘Housefull 4’ was caught in controversy over its box office figures, with a section of the media and trade analysts starting that the collection has been exaggerated. Reacting to the same Akshay had said during a media interaction, “There is a studio called Fox Star Studios (involved with the film). It has big credibility. It is a corporate company. It runs from Los Angeles. It is not possible. We should use our brains. They make films of millions and millions of dollars and for them, an increase (in collections) by three or five means nothing. So, let's talk sense. They (Fox Star Studios) are writing it on their own (Twitter) handle and it goes everywhere, they have to report to everyone. Nobody is going to lie (on) this.”
‘Housefull 4’ features an ensemble cast of Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon, Riteish Deshmukh, Kriti Kharbanda, Bobby Deol and Pooja Hegde. The film is the fourth instalment of the hit comedy franchise and clashed at the box office with Rajkummar Rao's 'Made in China' and Taapsee Pannu-Bhumi Pednekar's 'Saand Ki Aankh'.
