
# My Chemical Romance: By The Numbers

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Caitlin Kelley**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/caitlinkelley/2019/10/31/my-chemical-romance-by-the-numbers/)

My Chemical Romance just announced a reunion show at the Shrine Expo Hall in Los Angeles on Dec. 20, and you could say the internet is not okay. When the news went live, the hashtag #mychemicalromance trended worldwide on Twitter for several hours. The move is a big deal: this will be their first performance since 2012. The emo band disbanded back in 2013, and frontman Gerard Way penned a note explaining the split. “My Chemical Romance is done,” he wrote. “But it can never die. It is alive in me, in the guys, and it is alive inside all of you. I always knew that, and I think you did too. Because it is not a band — it is an idea.”
MCR was part of a wave of emo bands that broke through to the mainstream in the mid-aughts. Their last album, Danger Days: The True Lives of the Fabulous Killjoys, dropped back in 2010. At the moment, it's unclear if the LA concert is a one-time reunion. In the meantime, let's look back at some of the most important numbers in their career.
1: The number of Grammy nominations the band has received. Back in 2008, The Black Parade was nominated for Best Boxed or Special Limited Edition Package. That year, the title went to What It Is! Funky Soul and Rare Grooves (1967-1977).
Number Five: The last single from the band’s compilation album, Conventional Weapons, before they broke up. The album contained 10 tracks, recorded during the 2009 sessions for their fourth album. The songs dropped in a series of five double-singles.
9: The position "Welcome to the Black Parade" hit on the Hot 100 in 2007. 
10: The amount of RIAA certification that MCR has racked up over the years. Both "Welcome to the Black Parade" and The Black Parade went 3x multi-platinum in 2017. 
94: The number of weeks The Black Parade charted on the Billboard 200. As their highest-charting album, it peaked at No. 2 back in 2006. 
March 22, 2013: The day MCR announced their disbandment. "Being in this band for the past 12 years has been a true blessing," the band said in a statement at the time. "And now, like all great things, it has come time for it to end."
4,000,000+: According to The Guardian, this is the number of copies that The Black Parade sold.
6,674,119: The number of the band’s monthly listeners on Spotify at press time. 
125,785,684: The view count on “Welcome to the Black Parade,” the band’s most-viewed music video on YouTube. 
