
# Valverde has no regrets over Ansu Fati decision depsite competition

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:44:30+00:00**

Author: **German Bona**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/barca/valverde-has-no-regrets-over-ansu-fati-decision-depsite-competition-7710468)

Ansu Fati started against Real Valladolid in midweek bit it's looking tough for him to play regularly with all Barcelona's forwards fit and available again.
Earlier this season he was a big help and, despite the dilemma he's now facing, coach Ernesto Valverde doesn't regret giving him his chance even though everything has moved quickly since.
"Of course I don't regret bringing him into the first team early in the season," Valverde said on Friday. "We had a shortage of players in attack and we needed cover.
"And in addition, he has come in and he's demonstrating a lot of qualities. He's very young, he has a lot of room to grow. In principle, he's in the first-team setup, knowing that he could play some games with the B team, but the decision was well taken.
Ansu, who turned 17 this week, has been spectacular at times but Valverde says it's normal that he won't always be at that level as he continues to grow.
The coach added: "I know that when a new player comes (out of the academy) and in such a stunning way as he did, it generates a huge amount of exception.
"But at the end of the day, things are how they are. He turned 17 this week. He's still not got used to the (top flight) and it's a learning process. He has to learn how to manage the rhythm of the games, how to look after his body, he still needs to get stronger."
