
# BitMart Announces Partnership with FESSChain, Expanding Business In Emerging Markets

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:09:16+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CCN.com](https://www.ccn.com/bitmart-announces-partnership-with-fesschain-expanding-business-in-emerging-markets/)

BitMart, a premier global digital asset trading platform, recently announced their partnership with FESSChain. By integrating a decentralised payment settlement system in India, BitMart aims to expand their business in the fast-growing emerging markets. 
FESSChain is the first decentralized platform addressing the shortcomings of the existing electronic settlement system. Powered by Neutrino Framework, the cutting edge technology, FESSChain’s architecture ensures the full utilisation of the optimum block space, eliminates the undesired data and thus improves TPS with every passing transaction, offering a faster transaction experience all across the globe. Moreover, FESS verifies every block with Bitcoin blockchain mined blocks, which makes it practically safe and unhackable. 
Fesspay is a unique peer to peer exchange system launched by FessChain. Fesspay enables users with direct payment methods via their bank accounts. By offering a smoother, faster and secure way to transact fiat on 24*7 basis, Fesspay makes it possible for users to purchase crypto currency with only 1% transaction fee, removing the barriers for digital currency investment in India.
BitMart Exchange is a premier global digital asset trading platform in the cryptocurrency market with over 900,000 users worldwide and ranks among the top 5 crypto exchanges on CoinMarketCap. BitMart currently offers 267 trading pairs with one of the relatively low trading fees in the market. 
 To learn more about BitMart, visit their Website, Twitter or join their Telegram.

        
          This is a paid-for submitted press release. CCN does not endorse, nor is responsible for any material included below and isn’t responsible for any damages or losses connected with any products or services mentioned in the press release. CCN urges readers to conduct their own research with due diligence into the company, product or service mentioned in the press release.
        
      
