
# Jack White’s record label think they’ve cracked a code on Kanye West’s new album cover

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:04:04+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/news/music/jack-whites-label-cracked-code-kanyes-new-album-cover-2564229)


        Easter Egg!
      
Jack White’s record label, Third Man, think they have cracked a code on the cover of Kanye West’s new album, ‘Jesus Is King.’
The label’s archivist, Ben Blackwell, found an Easter egg on the cover via a serial number, ‘AR 1331 A’, which he found refers to a 1970’s Detroit gospel recording by Rubye Shelton and Sister Orr.
Blackwell discovered that the serial number links to a pressing plant code from Archer Records.
Speaking to Pitchfork, Blackwell said: “I knew the past decade spent in the deepest, loneliest recesses of Archer Record Pressing nerd-dom would eventually lead me to the biggest recording artist in the world. But enough about Jack White…who is this Kanye guy?”
The serial number is the same one the serial number from a 1970s Detroit gospel recording by Rubye Shelton and Sister Orr. Blackwell discovered that “AR 1331 A” is the pressing plant code from Archer Records.
The single comes from Cleveland-based Apostolic church the Original Glorious Church of God in Christ. It’s a 7-inch record with two songs on each side of the vinyl.
The A-side of the gospel single in question was recorded by Shelton and features two songs: ‘I Want the World to Know Jesus’ and ‘God’s Going to Destroy This Nation.’ The B-side features two further tracks: ‘The Hypocrite’ and ‘Come Out of the Valley.’
