
# Report | Barcelona’s Sensi interest intesnifies

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:33:00+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/02/report-barcelonas-sensi-interest-intesnifies?utm_medium=rss)


        Barcelona have been linked to Stefano Sensi who is on loan at Inter Milan and the Catalans are eager to buy him next summer once his loan deal expires. To add fuel to the reports, the midfielder’s agent was spotted in Barcelona prompting that talks have already begun between Barca and Sensi.
      
According to Spanish outlet Sport, Stefano Sensi’s agent Giuseppe Riso has been seen in Barcelona adding more speculations to Italian’s future. Barcelona have been impressed by Sensi’s performances and are keen to bring him to the Nou Camp as the club prepares for multiple departures in midfield. Sensi has been a joy to watch at Inter and Antonio Conte has been amazed by the midfielder so much that Inter want to exercise their buying option.
The 24 year old joined Inter in loan from Sassuolo in the summer and has instantly hit the ground running at San Siro, scoring 3 and assisting 4 in 7 games. Inter have an option to make the deal permanent next summer but Barcelona too are behind Sensi’s signature. The Marca report further added that Barcelona and Inter might work out a deal where Inter do not sign Sensi and Barcelona will be willing to sell Ivan Rakitic for a modest sum.
The Nerazzurri have shown interest in Barcelona’s Ivan Rakitic and Arturo Vidal, with both players complaining of the lack of game time due to the rise of Arthur and new signing Frenkie de Jong. The Spanish giants are open to selling Rakitic for a fee between €25-€35 million and if Inter allow Barcelona to sign Sensi, Rakitic could be used as a makeweight in the deal.
Riso is a well-known Italian intermediary who works preferably for  Inter, and his trip to Barcelona, ​​although the reasons are unknown, he could go in the direction of setting a deal between Inter and Barcelona which could involve Sensi, Vidal or Rakitic.
