
# NSE starts the week on a positive territory as ASI grows by 0.41%

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:17:02+00:00**

Author: **Samuel Oyekanmi**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/04/nse-starts-the-week-on-a-positive-territory-as-asi-grows-by-0-41/)

The Nigerian Stock Exchange Market (NSE) closed today’s trade on a positive note having traded in a total of 368 million shares, valued at N2.77 billion in 3,473 deals. The All-share index rose by 0.41% to close at 26,401.06 basis points. Meanwhile, the total market capitalisation rose 0.39% to close at N25.5 trillion.

        Top gainers
      
Champion breweries Plc, Honeywell Flour Mill Plc, UBA Plc, Fidelity Bank Plc and Nigeria Aviation Handling Company Plc all toped the gainers’ chart today. Champion Breweries Plc gained 10% to close at N0.99 followed by Honeywell flour mill Plc which gained 9.47% to close at N1.04. UBA recorded 8.62% growth to close the day at N6.3, Fidelity bank gained 6.86% closing at N1.87 while NAHCO gained 6.38% to close at N2.50.

        Top losers
      
Fidson Healthcare Plc, Unilever Nigeria Plc, International Breweries Plc, Capital hotel Plc and MRS Oil Nigeria Plc were the top worst-performing stock today as Fidson stocks shed 10% to close at N3.6 followed by Unilever Nigeria with a decline of 9.93% to close the day at N24.05.
International Breweries Plc declined by 9.92% to close at N11.35, Capital hotel Plc lost by 9.84% to close at N2.75 while MRS oil Nigeria Plc rounded off the list having shed 9.73% to close at N15.3.

        Top trades by volume
      
The 5 most actively traded stocks today registered 274.4 million shares valued at N2 billion accounting for 72.2% of the total day’s trade. Access bank Plc traded in 80.57 million shares valued at N650.01 million in 487 deals followed by Law Union Insurance which traded in 79.2 million shares valued at N33.3 million in 19 deals.
UBA and Zenith bank traded in 55.4 million shares valued at N348.5 million in 251 deals and 45.5 million shares valued at N777.2 million in 511 deals respectively while Lafarge Africa caped the list with trades in 13.7 million shares valued at N191.3 million in 148 deals.
