
# Kevin De Bruyne primed for Anfield atmosphere ahead of Liverpool vs Man City

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:00:19+00:00**

Author: **David McDonnell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-mcdonnell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/kevin-de-bruyne-primed-anfield-20832949)

Kevin De Bruyne is relishing Sunday's title showdown with Liverpool and the white-hot atmosphere that will engulf Anfield.
Premier League leaders Liverpool can go nine points clear of nearest challengers Manchester City with victory and take a giant stride towards a first league title for 30 years.
De Bruyne knows Liverpool's fans will make Anfield a hostile arena for Pep Guardiola's double champions, but the midfielder reckons he and his team-mates can feed off such a fervent atmosphere in a potentially season-defining clash.
“I prefer to play in that than when there's nobody,” said De Bruyne. “Professionals want to play in front of 50, 60, 70 or 80,000 people and it makes it worthwhile.
“You train all your life to get to the big stages. I want to compete for titles and to be the best, and to do that you have to win against the best.
“But it’s a game like another. We know it’s a big game – Liverpool are ahead, we have to recover and be ready for Sunday.
“Obviously it’s a big gap, but four weeks ago people were saying it was Liverpool’s to lose. I’m not keeping track of what people say, we play so many games.”
De Bruyne admitted he would rather be in Liverpool's position than City's even though Guardiola's side overcame a seven-point deficit at the turn of the year to overhaul Klopp's men and make it back-to-back titles.
“We want to be ahead, but we’ve lost points,” said De Bruyne. “People will talk about it whether we win, lose or draw, it’s for them to say what they want.
“The big games are the ones you want to play, and if you want to compete for titles, you have to beat the best.
“People have been talking about it for the whole week, even before the Champions League games, but we just do our job, keep calm and prepare ourselves.”
