
# Wake Up, Democrats

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:40:27+00:00**

Author: **David Leonhardt**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/05/opinion/trump-democrats-2020.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)


        This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can 
        
          sign up here
        
         to receive it each weekday.
      
Maybe this is the wake-up call that Democrats need.
My old colleagues at The Upshot published a poll yesterday that rightly terrified a lot of Democrats (as well as Republicans and independents who believe President Trump is damaging the country). The poll showed Trump with a good chance to win re-election, given his standing in swing states like Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Florida.
This was the sentence, by Nate Cohn, that stood out to me: “Nearly two-thirds of the Trump voters who said they voted for Democratic congressional candidates in 2018 say that they’ll back the president” in hypothetical match-ups against Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren.
Democrats won in 2018 by running a smartly populist campaign, focused on reducing health care costs and helping ordinary families. The candidates avoided supporting progressive policy dreams that are obviously unpopular, like mandatory Medicare and border decriminalization.
The 2020 presidential candidates are making a grave mistake by ignoring the lessons of 2018. I’m not saying they should run to the mythical center and support widespread deregulation or corporate tax cuts (which are also unpopular). They can still support all kinds of ambitious progressive ideas — a wealth tax, universal Medicare buy-in and more — without running afoul of popular opinion. They can even decide that there are a couple of issues on which they are going to fly in the face of public opinion.
But if they’re going to do that, they also need to signal in other ways that they care about winning the votes of people who don’t consider themselves very liberal. Democrats, in short, need to start treating the 2020 campaign with the urgency it deserves, because a second Trump term would be terrible for the country.

        [
        
          Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.
        
        ]
      
What would more urgency look like? Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders would find some way to acknowledge and appeal to swing voters. Joe Biden and Kamala Harris would offer more of a vision than either has to date. Pete Buttigieg, arguably the best positioned to take advantage of this moment, would reassure Democrats who are understandably nervous about his lack of experience. And perhaps Cory Booker or Amy Klobuchar can finally appeal to more of Biden’s uninspired supporters.
So far, the 2020 candidates have been divided into one of two categories: Some have been running an effective primary campaign, while others have recognized that the national electorate isn’t the same as the primary electorate. The Democrats need a candidate who falls into both categories.
For more …

        If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can 
        
          subscribe here
        
        . You can also join me on 
        
          Twitter (@DLeonhardt)
        
         and 
        
          Facebook
        
        .
      

        Follow The New York Times Opinion section on 
        
          Facebook
        
        , 
        
          Twitter (@NYTopinion)
        
         and 
        
          Instagram
        
        .
      

        Continue reading the main story
      
