
# [Update: November 2019] Best Chromebooks you can buy today

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:00:17+00:00**

Author: **Kyle Bradshaw**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/05/best-chromebooks-november-2019/)

With the rise of Android and Linux app support on Chrome OS, the possibilities for a high-end Chromebook have never been greater. Combined with the new tablet form factor, Chrome OS is becoming quite the all-in-one operating system. Let’s take a look at the best Chromebooks on the market today, as of November 2019.

        
          New for November:
        
      
With the addition of Android and Linux apps support to Chrome OS, the possibilities for a high-performance Chromebook have greatly increased. From that perspective, the best Chromebook for the job is the Lenovo Yoga Chromebook C630, which packs an Intel i5-8250U processor.
Backing up that processor, the Lenovo Yoga Chromebook C630 offers 8GB of RAM, up to 128GB of eMMC storage, and a microSD card slot. To say that this is a monster Chromebook is an understatement.
The unique selling point of the Lenovo Yoga Chromebook C630 is that, after some delays at launch, it’s now available with a 15-inch 4K (3840 x 2160) display, the first on any Chromebook, only recently matched by the Google Pixelbook Go — for $500 more, at that!
Unfortunately, to achieve the 4K display Lenovo sacrificed the battery life that Chrome OS is known for. In my personal hands-on time with the 4K Yoga Chromebook, it averaged a little over 5 hours on a charge. If you’re never far from a power supply, the 4K model is certainly viable, but you miss out on the portability aspect of it being laptop.
By contrast though, Chrome OS really shines in 4K, and it’s genuinely difficult to use other Chromebooks once you’ve used one as nice as the Yoga.
If you’re wondering how an i5 can offer higher performance than the i7 in Google’s Pixelbook and Pixel Slate, the answer lies with the i7 processors used in those devices being part of Intel’s Y-series. Those Y-series processors are typically for ultrabooks which are designed to be low-power and not need cooling fans.
By contrast, the i5-8250U inside the Lenovo Yoga Chromebook C630 is a proper laptop-grade processor. The difference is clear in benchmark tests, where the Yoga Chromebook’s i5 scores over double what the Pixel Slate’s i7-8500Y can manage.
Simply put, the Lenovo Yoga Chromebook C630 is the dynamic capability of Chrome OS combined with the full power of a “traditional” laptop. If you’re looking to do intense developer work from a Chromebook, this is certainly the one to buy, but may be overkill for most others.
While the Lenovo Yoga Chromebook C630 is available from a small handful of retailers, there’s been some issues reported related to the backlit keyboard. Supposedly, models sold by Best Buy (with a $20 lower retail price) do not offer backlit keys, while the models sold directly by Lenovo do. Be sure to keep that in consideration, should you decide to purchase one.
The standard 128GB model with a 1920×1080 touchscreen display retails for $719. Meanwhile, the 4K model, only available directly from Lenovo, rings in at $899, but is on sale for $620 at time of writing. It’s up to you whether having a 4K display on a Chromebook is worth $180 extra retail, but it’s trendsetting of Lenovo to offer it.
Amazon.com usually has the base model Yoga Chromebook C630 on sale for $659, though there’s no guarantees this will offer the backlit keyboard. Best Buy has this same model for $699.
Almost since its release in 2017, the Google Pixelbook has been acknowledged to be the absolute best that Chrome OS has to offer. However, after two years, that device’s specs and price point haven’t aged well, giving other OEMs time to shine. Earlier this year, ASUS released the Chromebook Flip C434 as a successor to their beloved Flip C302 from 2017.
The Flip C434 succeeds for many of the same reasons the Pixelbook did, offering solid performance in a perfectly portable 2-in-1 form factor, with no fan noise. The ASUS Chromebook Flip C434 packs an Intel Core m3, i5, or i7 processor (just like Pixel Slate), 4 or 8GB of RAM, and up to 128GB of storage in a 14″ chassis with a 1920×1080 resolution display.
Another thing that really makes the C434 interesting is its hinge design, which slightly elevates the rear of the device while in a traditional laptop position. This is intended to deliver a more ergonomic typing experience. The hinge can also allow the device to fold completely over for a tablet-style experience.
For all the things we praised the Google Pixelbook for, one thing that it still doesn’t have, even after two years, is affordability. ASUS has seized the opportunity to make a Pixelbook-killer out of the Chromebook Flip C434, which rings in at a spectacular $529.99 starting price and is available from both Amazon and B&H Photo.
If you’re looking to save even more, and can live without using your Chromebook as a tablet, ASUS also offers the non-convertible Chromebook C425. At time of writing, this model is on sale from Amazon for the fantastic price of $379.
Despite the recent launches of premium, high-end Chrome OS devices, many still appreciate Chromebooks for their affordability. The best consumer Chrome OS device you’ll find for a great price is definitely the Lenovo Chromebook C330.
The Lenovo Chromebook C330 is a convertible equipped with a MediaTek MT8173c processor, 4GB of RAM, and 32GB of storage space, further expandable via an SD card slot. It also comes with a simple 11.6-inch 1366×768 touchscreen display. While the C330 does not have the most impressive specs on this list, it’s well-rounded for its price bracket, with nothing too underpowered.
By using an ARM-based chip instead of an Intel one, Lenovo was able to keep prices low without compromising on performance for Android apps and the web. With its combination of performance and affordability, the Lenovo Chromebook C330 is an easy recommendation for students, children, or really anyone looking to get their feet wet with Chrome OS.
