
# Man Utd and Man City 'closely watching Lorenzo Pirola' at U17 World Cup

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:56:19+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-utd-man-city-closely-20813167)

Manchester United and Manchester City are showing interest in Inter Milan defender Lorenzo Pirola and have sent scouts to watch the teenager, according to reports.
The 17-year-old is yet to make his first-team debut for Antonio Conte's side but is attracting plenty of attention after establishing himself as one of the standout players in Inter's youth teams.
Pirola is currently representing Italy at the FIFA U17 World Cup in Brazil and has helped his country to advance to the knockout rounds of the competition.
 
According to FC Inter News (via Sport Witness ), the teenager has been observed by both Manchester clubs during their three group stage games.
The publication reports that the Red Devils have been tracking the teenager for longer and sent representatives to watch him during their second game, a 2-1 win against Mexico.
However, it has also claimed that Pep Guardiola's side have also joined the race for the defender, with City scouts understood to have been present in their following game against Paraguay.
Despite opening the scoring with a header after just three minutes for Italy, Pirola wasn't able to help Carmine Nunziata's side to victory as Paraguay won 2-1 to ensure they finished top of Group F.
Wins from their first two games meant Italy were still able to advance to the Last 16 and will now play Ecuador on November 7 for a place in the quarter-finals.
Pirola's strong displays at the current World Cup come after a number of impressive performances over the summer at the European Under-17 Championship, where he was named in the team of the tournament as Italy finished as runners-up to the Netherlands.
