
# Xiaomi Mi Note 10 with 108MP camera, 5,260mAh battery officially launched - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:11:18+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/06/xiaomi-mi-note-10-with-108mp-camera-5260mah-battery-officially-launched/)

Xiaomi Mi Note 10 with 108MP camera, 5,260mAh battery officially launched3.9 (77.14%) 7 votes
Chinese smartphone maker – Xiaomi on Wednesday officially announced the much-rumored Mi Note 10 at a  launch event in Spain. As expected, the Xiaomi Mi Note 10 is a rebadged Mi CC9 Pro announced earlier this week in China. By this announcement, the Mi CC9 pro will remain exclusive to China, while the same device will hit other markets as the Xiaomi Mi Note 10.
There appears to be no significant differences in hardware, but as you’d expect the Note 10 will run MIUI atop Google-approved Android, while the CC9 Pro will stick to Xiaomi’s own apps and services in China.
Also announced is the Xiaomi Mi Note 10 Pro which is the global variant of the Xiaomi CC9 Pro premium edition announced yesterday in China. The 10 Pro is virtually the same device as the standard Mi Note 10, except that it drops the 7P lens for an 8P lens in front of the 108 MP sensor with extra RAM and storage.
The highlights of the Mi Note 10 is its Penta-camera arrays, and beyond that is a 108MP sensor which Xiaomi co-developed with Samsung. The Mi CC9 Pro gets the same sensor, but the Mi Note 10 is the first to get a wider reach. Besides the 108MP sensor, the Mi Note 10 gets a 5MP telephoto camera with 5x optical zoom, 20MP wide-angle shooter, 12MP shooter with 2x zoom, and a macro camera capable of shooting from up to 1.5 cm.
It has dual flash, Night mode 2.0 with multi-frame noise reduction at raw level, and vlog mode with 7 templates for a cinematic-style vlog.
Beyond the cameras, the Mi Note 10 is also a device to reckon with in the power unit. It gets a 5,260 mAh battery, which perhaps is the largest in any Xiaomu smartphone. It supports 30w fast charging, but sadly do not offer wireless charging.
At the heart of the device is the Snapdragon 730G chipset, with 6 GB RAM and 128GB storage. It sadly does not support memory expansion, so there is no MicroSD slot.
The device will go on sale in Germany from November 11th and followed closely by Spain and Italy from November 15th.  Starting from November 18th, those in France will be able to get their hands on the device, while it will roll out to the UK, Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg soon. The Mi Note 10 starts at €549, while the Mi Note 10 Pro costs as much as €649.
Xiaomi Mi Note 10 – 6GB RAM/128GB storage – 549 Euros /US$ 608
Xiaomi Mi Note 10 Pro – 8GB RAM/256GB storage – 649 Euros /US$ 719
