
# Motherwell chief breaks Stephen Robinson silence and concedes he can't rule out Hearts switch

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:56:06+00:00**

Author: **Gabriel McKay**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/motherwell-chief-breaks-stephen-robinson-20795203)

Motherwell chief executive Alan Burrows says there's been no approach from Hearts for manager Stephen Robinson - but can't rule out his departure.
The Tynecastle club sacked Craig Levein earlier this week, though he'll remain on the board until the end of the season.
Robinson was immediately identified as one of the favourites to replace him, and the Steelmen's chief executive didn't rule out the manager leaving.
Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland Burrows said: "Nobody's been in touch, there's been no contact by anybody, informal or formal.
"The nature of a club like Motherwell is that when people, players, managers, do well then other people take interest.
"That's the nature of the beast and that's what we accept when we work at this club.
"The key thing whenever we lose a player or a manager is to get the next one in and keep doing it over and over again.
"It's not easy, don't get me wrong, I'd very much like Stephen Robinson to remain the Motherwell manager and right now there's been no contact from anybody.
"From our point of view and Stephen's point of view it's just business as usual.
"The manager has a notice period, as most people do in their employment, so from that point of view there is some protection there. He just signed a new contract in the summer until 2022 so the club are well protected.
"We would very much like Stephen to stay here.
"He's done an excellent job for us in terms of what we ask him to do: developing players, keeping the team competitive in the league, and his recruitment along with Martin Foyle has been excellent.
 
"He's almost the quintessential Motherwell manager in terms of what we require, so from that point of view long may it continue.
"You never know what the future holds in any walk of life so it would be wrong and ill-advised of me to make bold predictions about anybody's future at any football club.
"What we do is take it one day at a time, right now as we speak Stephen Robinson is the Motherwell manager and I hope it stays that way for as long as possible."
