
# Your Morning Dump... Where this is the Celtics' best start under Stevens

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:05:09+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jensen**

Original: [The Sports Daily](https://thesportsdaily.com/2019/11/05/your-morning-dump-where-this-is-the-celtics-best-start-under-stevens-r1a1/)


        Every morning, we compile the links of the day and dump them here… highlighting the big storyline. Because there’s nothing quite as satisfying as a good morning dump.
      

        NBC Sports
      
Sherrod Blakely over at NBC Sports has a list of reasons why the Celtics are off to their best start under Brad Stevens. Topping the list is Kemba Walker. Kyrie Irving has, from this distant perspective, all the hallmarks of someone with an undiagnosed and/or untreated mental health issue. Fortunately for him, he doesn’t seem to be self-medicating with drugs/alcohol. Unfortunately, as long as it’s untreated, he’s going to be this way.
At the same time, Blakely hits on a key point with Kemba, one that was also true with IT: Both of these guys have personalities that mesh well with Stevens’ approach to the game. Bad stuff doesn’t stick to Kemba or IT (see “Finally” item below). Rarely do either of these guys allow the funk of a bad quarter to leak over into the next one, and that sets an important example for new guys like Carsen Edwards and Grant Williams that are probably a bit in their own heads on offense at the moment.
I’m one who did not expect the C’s defense to fall off appreciably with the departure of Al Horford. The C’s defense in 2015/16, the season before they signed Horford, was ranked 4th, and that was with Isaiah Thomas as starting point guard and a nebulous platoon of guys playing in the post (Olynyk, Amir Johnson, Jared Sullinger, Jonas Jerebko and Tyler Zeller).
So, I’m not surprised that the defense is currently registering a top 10 rate after a loaded opening slate of games.
One of the reasons why I was so high on the Celtics coming into this season is that, from the top down, the team took individual responsibility for what went wrong last season.
The easiest thing to do now that Rozier and Irving are out the door would be pinning blame on them, downplaying the role that their own faults and immaturity played in last season’s debacle. Instead, it appears that everybody has taken something to heart from last season and they’re determined to avoid making the same mistakes twice.
Over at Boston.com, Chad Finn also has a super early review of the C’s season, and a few different points:
Kemba, in Boston, is playing like a taller IT (albeit not much taller–he’s among the NBA players who are shorter than just-above-average-height-yours-truly), but I must quibble with Finn’s contention that the team had to hide IT on defense.
True, if IT and Smart were both on the court, IT was going to be defending the less dangerous of the other team’s two guards.
However, one of the reasons why the C’s defense was so good with IT was because they didn’t try to hide him on defense. They knew that he couldn’t stay in front of most guys and that he was at a huge disadvantage on most switches, but they took that into account and game-planned to minimize that weakness. Go back and watch film of IT defending players, and you’ll see a guy who pretty consistently took away his opposite’s preferred side (forcing right handers to go left and vice versa), and he usually steered them right into help defenders. If you know a player can get by you, you try to control how they get by you.
And I expect similar skills from Kemba, now that he’s finally playing for a team that values defense.
I’m the guy who said that the ‘biggest disappointment’ for the Celtics this season would be the rookie class, and so far, I’m not regretting that call. However, I don’t expect Williams and Edwards to continue to struggle on the offensive end.
The good thing is that the whole team understands that these guys can shoot, and that eventually the shots will start to fall. If anything, they’re both probably putting more pressure on themselves to snap out of this funk than the rest of the team or the coaching staff is putting on them.
You’re going to hear a lot of talk along these lines this season. And one of the more ridiculous aspects of it is the notion that Kyrie Irving is ‘a superstar’ and Kemba Walker is ‘an overachiever’.
Frankly, the difference between the two comes down to marketing and draft luck.
Kyrie has a signature sneaker deal with Nike, Kemba doesn’t. Kyrie got drafted by an inept organization that somehow lucked into re-signing LeBron James and a championship. Kemba was drafted by an organization run by a cynical businessman with an eye on the bottom line.
