
# Highlights of Boris Johnson's Sky News Interview: Brexit, Trump and Naughtiest Thing He's Ever Done

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:25:00+00:00**

Author: **by Oleg Burunov**

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/europe/201911031077214718-britain-boris-johnson-brexit-interview/)


        Earlier this week, British MPs overwhelmingly voted to support Prime Minister Boris Johnson's proposal to hold an early general election to try and win a majority in parliament and have his Brexit deal with the EU approved. The move followed the EU granting the UK another withdrawal delay until 31 January.
      
In an interview with Sky News’ Sophy Ridge on Sunday, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson focused on a spate of Brexit-related issues in light of a recent move by the EU to extend Britain’s exit process until 31 January 2020.
The decision was followed by the UK Parliament’s House of Commons voting to hold a snap general election in the country on 12 December.
In the Sky News interview, Johnson specifically bemoaned the fact that he had failed to take Britain out of the EU on 31 October despite his previous pledges to do so.
Johnson said that he was “absolutely” sorry for failing to deliver Brexit by the Halloween deadline.
He added that the Brexit delay was “painful” not because it damaged his own ego but because businesses and families are unable to make plans as they are in the dark on when Brexit will take place.
During the interview, Johnson also questioned President Donald Trump’s previous claims that the withdrawal agreement may ride roughshod over a trade deal between the UK and the US.
He said that he doesn’t want “to cast any aspersions on the president of the United States”, but that in this context Trump is “patently in error.”
The UK PM reiterated that the Tories are not going to clinch an election pact with Brexit party leader Nigel Farage.
The remarks came a few days after Johnson rejected Trump’ suggestion that he should work with the Brexit Party during the election. Johnson told the BBC earlier this week that he was "always grateful for advice" but that he is unwilling to sign any election pacts.
The comments followed Trump come after the US president urged  Johnson to team up with Farage, insisting that the two men could be "an unstoppable force".
In the Sunday interview, Johnson promised that he would never give the green light to a second Scottish independence referendum amid concerns that Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has done a back room deal with the Scottish National Party.
His remarks came after Scottish National Party leader Nicola Sturgeon said that she will request another independence referendum from Johnson in “a matter of weeks.”
Unlike his predecessor Theresa May, Johnson declined to disclose the naughtiest thing he has ever done, saying that he fears it could be “terminally politically damaging.”
In 2017, then-UK PM Theresa May told Julie Etchingham of ITV’s Tonight program that she’d run through fields of wheat as a kid.
