
# Kourtney Kardashian Avoids Airbrushing Bikini Photo That Reveals Stretch Marks

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Thanussha Priyah**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407255/Kourtney-Kardashian-Avoids-Airbrushing-Bikini-Photo-That-Reveals-Stretch-Marks/)

Kourtney Kardashian shows off her amazing physique once again in her latest Instagram post for her lifestyle brand Poosh. The au naturel beauty is pictured lounging in a polka-dotted white bikini with a large body of water, green mountains and bright skies in the backdrop. The post is captioned as, “Stretch marks: we’ve all got them.” The mother-of-three is not hiding her natural stretch marks, she wants to normalize them so other women might feel more comfortable with their own. However, she has also offered tips on the products she believes in for anyone wishing to reduce these marks via the brand’s website. “Looking to minimize the appearance of yours? Learn how at the link in our bio,” the post continues. The 40-year-old is letting followers of her brand know that it is nevertheless completely alright to have stretch marks, which can be seen on her left thigh. Advertisement Advertisement Isn’t that just great? Women supporting women by embracing body positivity while offering advice to those looking to work on the look of their skin. Instagram users have praised the Kardashian for posting an unedited image to proudly show off her natural body. One follower comments, “Thank you so much for not editing out your stretch marks!” in which the Kardashian sister replies, “I love my little stripes!”
[via Hollywoodlife!, images via Kathy Hutchins / Shutterstock.com]
