
# Watch Argos' 2019 Christmas advert all about the nostalgic 'Book of Dreams'

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:55:03+00:00**

Author: **Molly Holt, https://www.facebook.com/mollyjaholt/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/watch-argos-2019-christmas-advert-20790692)

The battle of the Christmas adverts has begun, as Argos has just unveiled its 2019 festive offering.
Celebrating the British retailer's famous catalogue - an iconic feature of past Christmases in which we used to circle our most-wanted items - the advert officially launches tonight (Friday 1 November), set to air during Coronation Street and Googlebox.
While the much-loved catalogue has been a firm fixture with British families for the last 46 years, it has been absent from Argos’s most significant annual TV advertisement for the past decade.
But in a nostalgic nod to years gone by, this year the catalogue takes centre stage, having being renamed as ‘The Book of Dreams’ for 2019.
Delivering on its promise, the catalogue makes the father and daughter’s dreams come true in a heart-warming story that begins in a family kitchen, where a father sees that his daughter has circled a drum kit in the catalogue.
He taps the page with his finger and the kitchen table splits open to reveal the drum kit right there in front of him.
Suddenly, the kitchen transforms into his own private gig, with bulbs beaming in the oven and stage smoke pouring from the fridge.
Simple Minds’ 80s classic Don’t You Forget About Me plays on the TV and he drums along, before his daughter swiftly joins him in the gig of a lifetime, with adoring fans chanting along.
But it wouldn't be Argos without the arrival of some toys, and this year, it's Cubby the Curious Bear (£70) who gets a starring role, who's expected to be one of the most popular toys this year.
Dan Elton, Head of Marketing Communications at Argos, said: “This year we wanted to celebrate a festive tradition that families up and down the country all know and love. The nostalgia of circling your dream gift in the Argos catalogue never goes away and it’s still going strong in today’s tech-obsessed world.
“Argos is one of the UK’s biggest online retailers but the feeling of turning the pages of the catalogue is something our customers love and sets us apart from everyone else. Whether you shop by smartphone on your commute, pop in-store to browse the latest products or love to pore over the catalogue in the comfort of your home, Argos is the place to fulfil your Christmas dreams.”
Yan Elliott, Executive Creative Director, The&Partnership, said: “The year is one big drum roll to Christmas. Here, Argos have delivered the crescendo. We hope that families, up and down the UK, will not only love the campaign, but will be inspired to revisit this Christmas tradition.”
