
# Millionaire lottery winner continues to pinch pennies by shopping at Poundland

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:40:57+00:00**

Author: **Andy Richardson**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/millionaire-lottery-winner-continues-pinch-20820543)

A woman who scooped £2.1m alongside her husband still likes to pinch the pennies despite her jackpot win.
Back in 2012 Marie Kibler and her husband Paul got lucky on the lottery and their life changed forever.
They were able to immediately pay off their £50,000 mortgage, purchase a Mercedes each and his and hers Rolex watches, reports BirminghamLive.
Yet while they continue to enjoy some of the finer things in life one thing will never change for Marie and that is her love for bargain shop Poundland.
Marie, 72, said: "I have always loved Poundland and I always will. I sometimes pop in there two or three times a week. I may have won the lottery but one thing will never change and that is my love for a bargain.
 
"I will go in there and I will stock up on toiletries, batteries and cleaning materials. Before I won the lottery I would still be careful about how much I spent in there but now I can buy it in bulk, whole job lots.
"That's the difference but I will always shop in Poundland.
"I am down to earth and I will always be down to earth. I don't think we will ever lose that. When you have been careful with your money it is difficult to go and be reckless.
 
"The money we won, £2.1 million, sounds a lot of money and it is. However, we have both given up our jobs and have no income coming in so we can't go out and be totally reckless."
Paul, 59, who ran a gardening business, even worked for a further four years after the win to keep active before deciding to call it a day.
The couple regularly give to charity and carry out voluntary work.
Marie added: "The proudest thing I have done with the money is to buy my grandson’s school a defibrillator."
Paul added: "It is a special school and we were over the moon to give them that."
The couple also raise money for Cancer Research as their daughter suffered from ovarian cancer and Paul volunteers his services looking after Lichfield War Memorial.
The couple spoke on the 20th floor of a penthouse suite at the Rotunda in Birmingham city centre as part of the National Lottery's 25th anniversary celebrations.
Birmingham was chosen as the National Lottery's location to celebrate the milestone because of West Midlands' B postcode has proved to be the luckiest in the UK.
Since the National Lottery began back in 1994 an incredible 168 millionaires have been made - equivalent to one every two months.
And in total 1,277 top tier prizes of at least £50,000 have been banked by lucky players in the B postcode.
