
# How to increase download speeds on PlayStation 4

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/how-increase-download-speeds-playstation-4?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Between the settings, equipment, and upgrades, there are plenty of ways to increase the download speeds on your PlayStation 4. Here is a step-by-step guide on how to use all the options we've tested and confirmed to work. Nobody likes waiting a long time to download the new content they just bought so read on below to see how you can improve the internet speeds to your console.
Focusing on several tasks at once will cause each task to be completed at a slower rate because your attention is divided between multiple things. When you focus on a single task at once you complete that task faster because you're not stretching yourself too thin. The PlayStation 4 (PS4) follows the same concept.
If you're downloading more than one thing at a time your download speeds will suffer for it. If you're playing an online game while your PS4 is downloading something you're download speeds will suffer for that, too. In order to get the best download speeds possible, one of the first steps you want to do is make sure you aren't over-using your console so that it can have a better focus on the task at hand.
If you're downloading a large file these steps will only help a small amount. Make sure you check out the other options below to continue increasing your download speeds.
Using a wired connection through an Ethernet cord will provide faster download speeds as opposed to a Wi-Fi connection. The direct connection offers more stability and removes connection issues revolving around distance from your modem and PS4, how many devices are connected to the Wi-Fi, and more.
If you don't have the option to use a wired connection, here are a few steps you can take to improve the quality of your Wi-Fi connection (without upgrading your modem or internet service).
Disconnecting devices from your modem that you don't need prevent your modem from feeding signals that are unnecessary. It's the same concept of focusing on one thing at a time for a stronger feed as opposed to several things for a weaker one. If there aren't many devices connected to your modem and you're still experiencing issues it may be time to check out an upgrade.
It's been reported from multiple users that using Rest Mode while your PlayStation 4 downloads content will help increase download speeds. When I tested it I found that there was a slight increase in download speeds, but nothing significant. Regardless, if you intend on not using your PS4 while it's downloading anyway, it can't hurt to put it in Rest Mode to make sure it'll get the job done while you focus on other things.
Normally, Rest Mode will not let your PlayStation 4 stay connected to the internet. You'll need to follow the steps above to change the settings so that it does and it will continue downloading your content.
Making sure your console is up to date on all the latest firmware will make sure your PlayStation 4 is functioning in the best possible way. This will help increase download speeds, improve overall performance, and sometimes give you new brand new content to improve your overall experience.
Here's how to make sure your consoles are up to date. Thankfully the same steps to check the updates will also automatically install them.
DNS stands for Domain Name System. It's a server that has a huge list of IPs (internet protocol) and their corresponding domain names (otherwise known as hostnames). Basically, it functions as an address book for the networking of the internet by providing a connection between the IPs and domain names. The DNS connects what consumers use on their end to what the network uses in the back-end. By manually inputting the DNS settings on your PlayStation 4 you can make sure it always finds the fastest DNS, as opposed to it constantly searching for one.
Using Google's DNS (8.8.8.8 by 8.8.4.4 in your settings) has the fastest DNS to use for the PlayStation 4.
Now that your settings are configured you'll need to turn your PS4 off and turn it on again. Restart your download and enjoy faster connection speeds!

        Source: Android Central
      
Bandwidth is the maximum amount of data that can be transferred over a given path in networking. Paths are the connections that send signals from your device to the internet saying "Hey! This is what I'm trying to do!" Whether that is downloading content, playing an online game, and more. Bandwidth is the amount of data that can be transferred and it works with the Mbps (megabytes per second), which is what determines how fast it can be transferred.
Now, the bandwidth of your modem can affect the download speeds of your PlayStation 4— just like it can with any of the other devices connected to the internet. Just because your internet provider promises a certain Mbps doesn't mean your modem is also capable of handling the same amount. It's like trying to fit a gallon of milk into a quart-sized container. You'll get some of it, but there's a lot of potential going to waste.
Getting the exact speeds that your internet provider promises almost never happens. If the speeds are significantly lower then they're supposed to be, however, it might be a problem with your equipment. In this case, our recommendations for the best modems to upgrade your internet speeds with are provided at the top and bottom of this page!
If you know your modem is more than capable of providing the best internet speeds, that you're getting the internet speeds promised by your provider, and it still isn't enough— it's time to look into a new provider or upgrading your existing plan. By increasing the amount of Mbps your internet provider offers, you can increase your internet speeds and improve the download speeds to your PlayStation 4.
Do this by searching for internet providers local to your area and comparing the cost of service to the type of service provided. This way you can make sure the plan you decide not only fits your needs, but your budget too. If Google Fiber is available to your area it is the best provider for gamers and avid internet surfers alike.
With great power comes great responsibility, and that's why you need the best router for your internet needs. It will help increase the power behind downloading speeds, uploading speeds, online gaming, and more. An investment like this isn't just helping your PlayStation, but also every other internet-powered device in your home.
A powerful router worthy of its high price.
With the Linksys AC5400 Max Stream, you get three bands of Wi-Fi, 4 x 4 MU-MIMO, and a ton of ports to connect your wired devices. A 2.4 GHz band with speeds up to 2,166 Mbps is perfect for older devices, and two 5 GHz bands at up to 2,166 Mbps support 4K streaming and seamless online gaming. Eight Ethernet ports let you connect plenty of wired devices.
The Linksys AC5400 Max Stream is the successor to the EA9500, which is Window's Central's best Wi-Fi router of 2019. All of the specs and abilities it has are sure to upgrade your internet speeds for way more than just your PlayStation 4. If you're looking for something on a smaller budget, you should check out the TP-Link Archer A7 I've listed below. If you need a little more help finding the best router for your home, make sure you swing on by to Windows Central and get all the information you need.
Any of these products will offer help with increasing your PlayStation 4's internet speeds. They may seem small, which is great because they're also cheap, but they help a lot more than you think!
Using an ethernet cable to connect your PlayStation 4 to the internet will show you immediate improvements to your connection speeds. This 50-foot cable means you'll have plenty of room to wire it from your console to the router.
This budget router has two Wi-Fi bands, one 2.4 GHz at 450 Mbps for 802.11a/b/g/n devices and one 5 GHz at 1,300 Mbps for 802.11ac devices. A USB-A ports on the back of the router allow you to connect external storage for media sharing across all devices in your home, and it includes Amazon Alexa integration.
Easy to stock up
PlayStation gift cards are an easy way to grab currency for games, add-ons, themes and more on the PlayStation Store. They also come in a wide variety of denominations.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Best stuff in life is free Outlast 2 brings the scares in November's free PS Plus games If you have a PlayStation Plus membership, then you know about PlayStation's free games of the month. Here are the free games you can get this month with your membership.
      

        be still my beating wallet Every PlayStation 4 game coming out in November 2019 Here are the biggest PS4 games dropping this month!
      

        best of the best Modern Warfare looks stunning in 4K, the best enhanced games for PS4 Pro If you want the most outstanding experiences on PlayStation 4 that take advantage of the PS4 Pro's power to enhance their graphics and performance, these are some of the best games you can get.
      
