
# How Technology Is Changing Sports-Fan Engagement

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jenny Rooney**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jenniferrooney/2019/11/01/how-technology-is-changing-sports-fan-engagement/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Like all industries, technology is radically transforming the world of sports. That’s no more evident than in the recent groundbreaking partnership between the NFL and fantasy-football league DraftKings. The move is indicative of the future of technology-enabled fan experience, one driven by gambling and fantasy sports.At the Forbes Under 30 Summit this week in Detroit, Jason Robins, cofounder and CEO of DraftKings, and Chris Halpin, executive VP and chief strategy and growth officer at the NFL, sat down with Forbes Senior Editor Kurt Badenhausen to talk about the partnership and where they see each of their businesses—and sports—headed.  
For the NFL, the partnership solved a riddle. “We’ve been exploring new ways to engage fans,” Halpin said. “We thought the time was right with a daily fantasy partner, and we couldn’t be happier that DraftKings is that partner,” he said.
“You can do ad deals, but this is different; this is their game,” Robins said of the NFL. “They care deeply about how to make the game more exciting and engaging for the fan.”
As official partner of the NFL, DraftKings can use marks and logos and game footage in areas of their product but also for promotional purposes. New product news is forthcoming, but was undisclosed. There are also Easter eggs for fans to discover.
Halpin said the NFL is also looking at finding a sports-betting partner in Europe; more partners will come as gambling matures domestically.
“At NFL, we are careful about who we give footage to,” Halpin said. “We are careful stewards of the teams but when we think about how integrated DraftKings is in its active user base we thought they were great partners.”
This is strictly a fantasy partnership, with no gambling component, but the NFL is testing the waters with gambling partnerships at a time of state-by-state legalization. Just under 20% of NFL fans bet, Halpin said.
Looking out five years, the panelists made predictions on what sports gambling will look like in the U.S.
“Right now it seems like it’s going state by state,” said Robins. “In some ways that’s good for a company like DraftKings. There will need to be some level of uniformity,” he said, because it is too difficult to have 50 different regulatory frameworks. “I also think technology is going to greatly affect how consumers experience everything. For most Americans betting on sports, they will be watching games and tell their smart TV to [place a bet]. One day you’ll walk in and bet via your Amazon Echo. All these things will be interconnected. They’ll just know—you want to bet on a game, you’ll just watch it.”
This will bring with it “the need to create [real-time betting] experiences that are conducive to a live experience. It’s a perfect complement to keep you engaged.”
Tech and smartphones, he said, “will bring everything together. More and more will be personalized.”
Halpin said that with regard to sports betting legalization, “so much of it comes down to online. New Jersey and Pennsylvania now have momentum going online. Online is key.”
As for the fan experience at home, technology will similarly continue to play a transformative role. The emphasis will be on the fan experience and the game pace to fit TV and home viewer habits; 5G and Wi-Fi enhancements will play a vital role. Meanwhile, in stadiums, DraftKings will set up fantasy zones, with stats and feeds and promotions for users.
