
# India-spec Toyota Vellfire: A close look

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:54:00+00:00**

Author: **Akbar Merchant**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/india-spec-toyota-vellfire-a-close-look-414738)

Vellfire deliveries to commence by March next year; to get ‘Executive Lounge’ package as standard.
Toyota India will start delivering the Vellfire MPV to its customers sometime in March next year, for bookings made now. A handful of dealers had begun accepting bookings for the MPV, recently. The model was previewed to select customers a few months ago and while speculation on the India-spec MPV’s looks and features has been making the rounds, today, we can confirm a number of details. We bring you a closer look at what the India-bound Vellfire MPV looks like, thanks to our reader Dinanath Chauhan. 
A high-end luxury MPV, the Toyota Vellfire will arrive as a CBU under the Indian government’s relaxed homologation rule.
When it arrives, the Vellfire for India will get the brand’s ‘Executive Lounge’ package as standard – it includes two large thrones for the middle row passengers that come with their own power-operated ottomans. The seats themselves are ventilated and can be electrically reclined too. As part of this package, the India-spec Vellfire will also get a powered tailgate and sliding doors, two sunroofs, three-zone automatic climate control, mood lighting and individual tray tables.
 
The model in these images comes with an aftermarket 7.0-inch touchscreen infotainment system. It also gets an entertainment package with two 10.2-inch screen for the rear passengers and a 360-degree camera, according to sources. A handful of units of the Vellfire MPV have been imported to India and according to sources, all have a similar interior and exterior – the cabin comes with a dual-tone beige and black finish while the exterior finish is Pearl White. For those not in the know, the Vellfire is a more premium variant of the Alphard MPV, which is on sale in select markets – the former gets unique front and rear design and more features on the inside, along with added creature comforts.
 
Expected to launch with an ex-showroom price tag of about Rs 80 lakh, the Vellfire will be available in a single fully-loaded variant and be powered by a petrol-electric hybrid powertrain comprising of a 150hp, 2.5-litre petrol engine coupled with a 143hp electric motor – combined output stands at 197hp. This is the same powerplant that also sees duty on the Lexus NX 300h SUV already on sale in India. The sole gearbox choice on offer with the Vellfire will be a CVT automatic.
The Vellfire will directly rival the Mercedes-Benz V-class that launched at the start of this year at Rs 68.40-81.90 lakh (ex-showroom, pan-India). The Vellfire and V-class will also see competition from the upcoming Kia Carnival, which is slated to arrive in India sometime next year.

        Also see:
      

        
          India-spec Toyota Vellfire image gallery
        
      

        
          Mercedes V-class Elite launch on November 7, 2019
        
      
