
# Finally in Islamabad’s Colosseum

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:00:36+00:00**

Author: **Muhammad Ali Ehsan**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2092350/6-finally-islamabads-colosseum/)

The recent Tezgam train inferno that resulted in the death of 74 people was most unfortunate. The worst consequences that the poor people continue to suffer — as in this case even paying with their lives has got everything to do with “missed opportunities” and “lack of priorities”. Errors of political judgment or committing mistakes is acceptable but ours has been a story of deliberate indulgence in political misdeeds. The Tezgam inferno is just one example of the political elite’s lack of empathy for the poor. Those who govern them hardly travel in these trains and when they don’t, why expect that adequate security measures would be in a place that could prevent the loading of gas cylinders on board. Life of the poor in this country is much cheaper than the life of the rich.
Our country showcases a beautiful filtered life for people who belong to different classes. There are these “filtered water drinkers” who are actually supposed to do something for a majority of the people who don’t get to drink the clean water, but since they themselves and their children are not exposed to the health risks, why care? There are these golfers who have these rich green fields to play on and every evening feel the healthy and rich natural environment. Hitting the balls into a series of holes, do they really care about the holes in our “non-delivering political bucket” that continues to leak shame? Stray dogs bite poor people — the pedestrians out on the roads. These animals don’t bite because they are attacked, they do that because even they have gone crazy because of the hunger with which they suffer and have young ones for which they care and have to provide food. Not in the right place and moving aimlessly defines being stray — more aptly, I think this defines the nature of politics and those who indulge in it these days — the “occupiers of the political offices” the “movers and shakers of our fortunes”, those that continue to stray and make their offices the victims of their own behaviour — that’s our politicians for whom everything is a priority and thus nothing is a priority.
Despite the internal and external challenges and despite being a political novice, the current government struggled ahead and laid out a political road map. Like all the previous governments the immediate challenge for this government also was to provide economic stability and execute sustained governance. After a difficult 12 months in office when a semblance of economic retrieval and recovery started appearing on the political horizon the “Maulana Typhoon” hit the government’s plans. The government’s political and economic marathon that was heading in the direction of achieving economic stability is now forced to sprint back, retrench and defend its own political standing and credibility. Maulana is already saying that he has no plans to give in and after two-three days, where the people head and do is something that even he would not be able to control. This is as politically amazing as has been the whole Tehreek (movement) that Maulana has built to topple the government. The end that Maulana seeks and about which he has already given us a hint is least to say very reckless and politically irresponsible.
It is bad to create conditions of disorder and anarchy and unfortunately for Maulana, he is doing the same. The responsible political parties (if not parties then some leaders in those parties) should be able to draw correct political estimates. Maulana at the cost of his short-term gains has already contributed to the long-term loss that this country and its interests have suffered. Means cannot be employed without conceiving a political end and if the end conceived by Maulana all this time was to create anarchy, then I think that the government and security agencies are well prepared to handle any political hooligans and misguided mobsters that Maulana’s leadership may unleash on the state’s interests.
Despite the damage to the political repute and the standing of our state in the community of nations, this political battle, I believe must now be fought to the end. Maulana says that “the whole country will be his battleground” but it seems it is here in Islamabad where this battle will be finally won or lost.
The difference between the followers of the patriotic leaders and those that want to spread anarchy in the country is very clear. The followers of patriotic leadership are proud of and approve of “what their leadership says and does”. The followers of anarchic leadership are also proud of their leadership but approve of “whatever their leadership says and does”. The underlying difference between both is that the first creates feelings of responsibility but the second creates blind arrogance that leads only to situations of dangerous conflicts. When you approve of whatever your leadership says or does that leadership is hardly questioned.
I continue to call Maulana’s big following that he is able to muster as subjects. Looking at some of the images on social media, I am reminded of the lack of political empathy by the elite that governs us. From their attire to the shoes they wear and the hunger with which they reach out to the food being delivered, one can easily describe them as an underprivileged, disadvantaged, deprived lot that only took its current shape and mindset because of the state’s neglect.
Sensing Maulana’s mood, I think Islamabad in the coming days will become a Colosseum for a while where Maulana may exploit the innocence of his subjects encouraging them to become the Tehreek’s gladiators who will fight to redeem (not the Tehreek’s) but his personal esteem and pride.
The major political parties despite their own backs to the wall are so far correctly reading the writing on the wall in the front. But all this can change in moments depending on which way the wind blows.
Soren Kierkegaard (1813-1855) was a Danish philosopher, social critic and religious scholar who famously said: “life can be understood backwards but it must be lived forwards”. This country deserves forward-looking, well-meaning and patriotic leadership. Maulana’s Azadi March or Dharna will actually be an opportune moment for people to make that distinction.

        Published in The Express Tribune, November 3rd, 2019.
      
