
# Listen to Omar Apollo and Dominic Fike’s collaborative new single, ‘Hit Me Up’

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:35:09+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/news/music/omar-apollo-and-dominic-fikes-collaborative-new-single-hit-me-up-2564771)


        With production from Kenny Beats
      
Dominic Fike and Omar Apollo have released a new collaborative track called ‘Hit Me Up’ – listen below.
The Florida rapper and the Indiana singer-songwriter, who are proving themselves as two of 2019’s most exciting rising artists, appear on the Kenny Beats-produced single which arrived online today (November 5).
“You know I wouldn’t tell you where to go/ Nobody listen to the radio, baby/ We’re bending corners like were running from the sun/ Whip is turning different colors and you’re taking on changes,” Fike raps midway through the song.
“Hope y’all r vibing,” Apollo tweeted shortly after the song premiered on Zane Lowe’s Beats 1 radio show. 
‘Hit Me Up’ follows on from Apollo’s recent single ‘Frío’, which marked his first track to be sung entirely in Spanish.
Dominic Fike, meanwhile, shared the Halsey-starring official video for ‘Phone Numbers’ last month. In September, the musician teamed up with Bakar on the collaborative track ‘Stop Selling Her Drugs’.
Omar Apollo is set to embark on a UK and European tour later this month. Check out the full schedule below.

        November
      

        19th – Paris, France @ Badaboum
        
        21st – Glasgow, UK @ The Blue Arrow Club
        
        22nd – Manchester, UK @ Night People
        
        23rd – Leeds, UK @ Belgrave Music Hall
        
        25th – Bristol, UK @ Exchange
        
        26th – Brighton, UK @ Green Door Store
        
        27th – London, UK @ Heaven
      
Speaking to NME earlier this year, Apollo discussed his creative process, explaining: “Writing these songs has to be quick for me.
“It has to be a whole moment in time and the creative flow has to go quickly. Even if the words don’t make sense at the time, I know I have to keep going with it to complete it.”
