
# Andre Gomes sent classy message from Idrissa Gueye after horror injury

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:29:39+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/andre-gomes-sent-classy-message-20806525)

Andre Gomes has received a classy message from former Everton team-mate Idrissa Gueye after suffering a fracture dislocation to his right ankle.
Toffees midfielder Gomes suffered the sickening injury during Sunday’s 1-1 draw with Tottenham at Goodison Park.
The 26-year-old was brought down by Spurs ace Son Heung-min before landing awkwardly in the turf and colliding with Serge Aurier.
Gomes was carried off on a stretcher and immediately rushed to hospital.
Gueye, who left Everton for Paris Saint-Germain in the summer, was devastated by his pal’s plight.
“Wish you a fast recovery @aftgomes,” he wrote on Twitter . “You are a warrior.”
Everton released a statement hours after the final whistle, confirming the severity of Gomes’ injury .
It read: ”Everton Football Club can confirm Andre Gomes will undergo surgery tomorrow (Monday, November 4) after sustaining an ankle injury in today’s game with Tottenham Hotspur.
"The Portugal international was stretchered from the pitch during the second half of the game and taken straight to Aintree Hospital by ambulance accompanied by members of the Everton medical team.
"After undergoing hospital tests, it was confirmed he had suffered a fracture dislocation to his right ankle.
"The Club will provide further updates in due course."
Son was initially booked for his challenge on Gomes, which was upgraded to a red card once the seriousness of the injury emerged.
Explaining why referee Martin Atkinson dismissed the Tottenham forward, the Premier League said: “The red card for Son was for endangering the safety of a player which happened as a consequence of his initial challenge."
Spurs midfielder Dele Alli admitted his South Korean team-mate was left “devastated” by Gomes’ injury.
He added: “Son is one of nicest people you would want to meet. He can’t even lift his head up, he’s crying so much.”
