
# James Martin's phenomenal body transformation after the TV chef shed five stone

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:04:08+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/james-martins-phenomenal-body-transformation-20837560)

James Martin has boasted a slimmer and trimmer figure ever since he danced the weight away during his 2005 appearance on Strictly Come Dancing and has managed to keep the five stone off.
The TV chef, 46, credits his healthier size to following a diet plan but he has also told how being on the road as part of his cooking tours means he has to be firm to make sure he does not fall off the wagon.
The star, who previously hit 19 and a half stone on the scales, previously spoke on Good Morning Britain about staying healthy when away from home.
Martin told hosts Susanna Reid and Ben Shepherd: “I’ve got a lot of mates of mine who are quite good chefs in the area who usually open late.”
Shepherd added: “You must be burning up a lot of calories on stage,” to which the chef told, “Mainly because of stress more than anything else because it’s a lot of weight, you have to perform every night.”
James has also told how being in the public eye and appearing on TV meant he was keen to keep off the extra weight.
Speaking to Mail Online, James shared: "You kind of watch and go, 'Oh God there's a bit of chin happening there'.
“And everybody's TVs are bigger now. Before you used to watch TV on a small one and now they're massive."
He also touched on his size during an appearance on Loose Women, earlier this year, where he shared he is mindful of his appearance.
After being asked if he is critical of his look, he replied: "100% hence I’m wearing a jacket."
Janet swiftly added: "What about weight?"
James confessed: "Weight is quite a big issue. Now she’s got a big TV. It never used to be a problem when she had a little TV. It's all relative. HD is horrific."
Getting serious, he added: "I've never been a little lad. I’m 6ft 4 and 18 stone."
He admitted he was a "bit thinner" when he started on TV back in 1997.
The cook also previously told The Sun how negative comments on social media encouraged him to stay fit.
He explained: “I looked on social media and every comment was about me being fat.
“So I lost a stone-and-a-half. And no doubt I’ll lose another stone on this tour.”
It is also said that the kitchen whizz cut butter out of his diet in order to beat the buldge.
As well as cutting out the dairy, he has discussed how he tried to avoid all fatty foods to stay in shape.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
