
# Stephen Robinson blanks Hearts and Hibs links with his Motherwell squad

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:01:23+00:00**

Author: **Press Association**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/stephen-robinson-blanks-hearts-hibs-20832328)

Motherwell boss Stephen Robinson has not spoken to his players about potentially taking over at one of the two Edinburgh clubs.
The Northern Irishman is among the bookies’ frontrunners to manage Hearts either Hibs.
Michael O’Neill is Stoke City’s top target and they have approached the Irish Football Association for permission to open talks.
O’Neill was also a favourite to return to Easter Road.
Hearts owner Ann Budge revealed earlier this week applications for the Gorgie job will close on Friday.
But Robinson is adamant his name being linked with the role is purely speculation as he insisted he has not sat his players down to offer any reassurances he is staying at Fir Park.
 
The 44-year-old said: "I don't think I need to do that. It's all speculation.
"I am concentrating solely on Motherwell and a big game on Sunday to try and stay in the position we are in, a tough game.
"I don't think there is any need to address that, I am more focused on Celtic's threats and how we can expose Celtic and try and get a result.
"It's hard enough trying to beat Celtic without worrying about anything else and hypothetical questions. Me and the players have stayed solely focused and not let it detract from our attention of trying to get a result on Sunday.
"We are doing well, players are getting international recognition, we are sitting third in the table with a fantastic game at Celtic Park on Sunday, so I don't need to deal with any of that. I just concentrate on what's in front of me."
Robinson, who saw defender Declan Gallagher called up by Scotland this week, believes the players should take credit for him being linked with other clubs.
"I have a brilliant relationship with all the players," the former Oldham boss said. "You can only start 11 of them so it's important you keep the boys who are not playing on board as well, as frustrated as they are, which is understandable.
"I try and be honest with people and we treat them well and if I'm linked with something it's down to the players, and if the players are linked with clubs or playing for their country, it's because of Motherwell Football Club.
"We appreciate each other and I think there's a good bond and relationship between all the players and staff."
