
# The Unboxable Life: Three Ways To Manifest The Life You Were Meant For

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Erin Miller**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescoachescouncil/2019/11/04/the-unboxable-life-three-ways-to-manifest-the-life-you-were-meant-for/)

Most people live a boxed life. We live in a box. We are educated in a box. We drive to work or school in a box. We work in an environment full of boxes, go home and are entertained by a box, eat meals out of a box and eventually die and are buried in ... yes, a box. Think about that for a minute.We are creatures driven by emotion and dreamers from a very young age. I know when I was little, I aspired to be either an astronaut or a princess when I grew up. Sadly, neither happened for me, but the point is we create a vision of how we believe our life should be — typically an ever-evolving portrait of self-purpose.
But as time creeps, we so often find ourselves unable to achieve those now seemingly lofty goals. We find ourselves in a different kind of box altogether — one chock-full of our comfort zones. We become locked down and stagnant due to fear, ignorance, a lack of confidence and limiting beliefs. So we keep living small, going through the minutiae day after day, avoiding risks, avoiding pain, in the hopes that one day, things will change. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here to tell you they won't.
We live in a culture of avoidance where we choose to stick our heads in the sand like the proverbial ostrich and live within the confines of our comfort zones because anything other than that is unknown, and unknown is scary, even for the strongest of people. Bravery is not a natural state. Even our minds are genetically wired to be risk-averse to keep us safe both emotionally and physically. So the "if it doesn't feel good, don't do it" mentality becomes the norm. Yet the irony is, if we had sunshine 24/7, we would have a desert on our hands. Life is not supposed to be lived within our comfort zones. Adversity and effort are fundamental for substantial growth.
We already have the power to reach our highest potential and manifest the life we desire. We see glimpses of it throughout our lives, and deep down, we know the magnitude of what we are capable of. How many times have you or someone else you know said, "I know I'm meant for more, but..." or, "This is my dream, but..." The real question here is how many of us go all-in and face the "buts" head-on.
Many clients ask me with all the resources available, what's the fastest way to manifest the life you truly want. Well, in my opinion, it really comes down to three things.
1. The quickest way to change your life is to change your inner circle. Yes, even your friends contribute to your comfort zones. It's often said that you are the sum of the five people you spend the most time with, so choose wisely. Ask yourself, "Do the people around me lift me up, inspire and motivate me, push me to become a better version of myself?" Because let me tell you, if they don't demand excellence from themselves, they sure as hell won't demand it from you. It's like crabs in a bucket — when one tries to find a way out and better its circumstances, the others try to pull it down. People are no different. Surround yourself with greatness, and by default, your life will become great.
2. The easiest way to change your current circumstances is to dedicate your life to helping others change theirs. One of the fastest ways to change a stagnant mindset is by helping others to break free from theirs. It's like chicken soup for the soul. Go from me-centered to we-centered. Not only does a heart-centered approach take ego out of the picture completely, but it also allows us to better serve with excellence. When others' needs are your top priority, people know, inspiring trust, loyalty and motivation. People intrinsically want to be a part of something great, so be willing to go to the root of things using your God-given talents, and do whatever it takes to serve those around you with love and complete dedication. Impact starts with serving others.
3. Stop looking for a loophole and commit to the difficult. Changing your life is hard, but looking for the easy way out is going to lead you right back to where you started: boxed in your comfort zones. You are going to have to commit to some decisions that are difficult to keep, but consistent focus on the goal at hand quickly creates habit. I promise you, you won't find a way to make your dreams fit into your current reality; you have to change your current reality to fit your dreams. Do the work. Einstein is commonly credited with so eloquently stating that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results. Truth!
Steve Maraboli said that "while intent is the seed of manifestation, action is the water that nourishes the seed." Your actions must reflect your goals in order to achieve true success. So get out there and break free from the confines of those comfort zones! Be an advocate for the transformation that takes your life to the next level and fulfills your dreams.
