
# Restraint of kids has no place in civilised society

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Annie Brown, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/annie-brown/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/restraint-kids-no-place-civilised-20818882)

Last month, Scotland became the first country in the UK to make it a criminal offence for parents to smack their children.
The smacking ban Bill was introduced by Scottish Greens’ MSP John Finnie, a former police officer, who said smacking teaches children that “might is right”.
He said the ban would “send a strong message that violence is never acceptable in any setting”.
 
All very laudable and progressive but, in the meantime, it would appear might is right when it comes to adults exercising force over some of our most vulnerable children.
While a slap across a child’s legs will now be unlawful, the physical restraint of children will not be and while school staff would argue they only use it as a last resort, we have no idea if this is true.
Scotland’s local authorities recorded 2674 incidents of restraint and seclusion relating to 386 children during 2017-2018 – but a third of local authorities failed to provide data.
It beggars belief that such an extreme physical intervention, usually with disabled children, who may have behavioural issues, learning disabilities or conditions such as autism, can be allowed to go unrecorded in a staggering 83 per cent of cases.
More than a quarter of the children restrained were under the age of six.
If a pupil in a mainstream school were to be slapped on the wrist by a teacher, that staff member would be disciplined and a parent informed.
If a child fell over and bruised their knee, a parent would expect to be told.
Yet a child can be pinned down or physically removed from a room and there is no official record forthcoming. There are parents in Scotland who only discovered their child was restrained after they had come home bearing bruises.
Charity Enable, which provides advocacy for people with learning disabilities, this week launched a campaign calling for stricter rules around the use of restraint and seclusion in schools. In its In Safe Hands? report, one parent said her daughter was regularly secluded and restrained at school, and was locked for 45 minutes in a “safe space”, where she soiled herself.
 
There are strict protocols when a prisoner is secluded but a child can be confined and shut up alone in a room without any meaningful accountability. Another parent told Enable that from the age of five, her son was restrained ­and kept in a cloakroom by a teacher who held the door closed because he would not put his shoes on.
A year ago, East Lothian banned seclusion and restraint from its schools and the practice is considered a violation by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child.
The local authority prefers the use of quiet spaces where children can withdraw, reflect and calm down.
Nicola Sturgeon has committed to incorporating the UNCRC into Scots law within the next two years but the pace has been slow.
Today, children from across the country will march to the Scottish Parliament to celebrate the commitment and remind the Government it must be honoured.
In keeping with that promise, there should be a ban on the use of seclusion and restraint in schools, which has been shown to have a long-term, detrimental psychological and emotional impact.
If we consider smacking to be a violation of children’s rights, surely so too is the use of such cruel methods against our most vulnerable children.
 
Tomorrow, Catalan exiled professor Clara Ponsati will again find herself in a Scottish court on a European Arrest Warrant.
Once more, the bully boys of Spain are throwing the might of state at the former education minister whose only “crime” was to keep the schools open in a peaceful referendum.
Supplant St Andrews University’s Clara, left, with Education Minister John Swinney and it is inconceivable that the British Government, abominable as it is, would jail him for the 15 years she potentially faces.
The reissue of the warrant comes at a moment in Catalonia’s history when a new generation is on the streets in a movement now more energised and defiant than ever. This younger movement will have no truck with a future marred by authoritarian rule.
Last month, a general strike saw Barcelona grind to a halt in protest at the jailing of nine separatist leaders who were sentenced to 100 years in prison.
The brutality and arbitrary arrests by the Catalan and Spanish police are a shameful violation of human rights in a country which refuses to dispense with the repressive tactics so vigorously exercised by the fascist Franco regime.
Clara’s fight is our fight, regardless of where we stand on independence because if we care about our basic democratic rights, we care about her.
