
# Channel 4 smuggles people into UK by car, lorry and motorhome - and they all get in

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:37:18+00:00**

Author: **Kara O&#39;Neill**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/channel-4-smuggles-people-uk-20795231)

As the UK prepares to ‘take back control’ of its borders and end freedom of movement for EU citizens, Channel 4 has commissioned a new two-part series exploring how effective Britain’s border security really is.
The security of the UK’s frontiers is a major political concern, but very little is known by the public about how easy it really is to clandestinely enter Britain.
Smuggled sees several ordinary British citizens attempt to smuggle themselves from a variety of locations around continental Europe back into Britain without using their passport, evading Border Force authorities altogether.
From boats to lorries, ferries to car boots - all of the contributors attempt routes that have been used by those seeking to enter the country clandestinely or by people traffickers and drug dealers.
In the programme, one couple, grandparents Carolynne, 62, and David, 66, become people-smugglers - their goal being to sneak Carolynne into the UK from France in the back of their motorhome.
Attempting to commit crime doesn't come naturally to the pair.
Carolynne, who worked for 35 years in the NHS as a trauma nurse, said: "We come from a generation that respects authority.
 
"Growing up, we did as we were told."
As she crawls into a compartment in the back of the campervan without her passport on her, Carolynne is sure she'll get discovered on the journey from Caen in France to Portsmouth - via ferry.
But incredibly, the couple sail through the border checks without so much as a hint of trouble.
Carolynne said: "I want this country to be as safe as possible. As a grandmother of four, I want to be sure everyone coming here is known.
"I want to be reassured that our borders are safe.
"In fact, I found it was disconcertingly easy to get through with only the most cursory of checks. I wanted to be found.
"I wanted to discover that immigration officials were doing their job. I'd have been proud to spend some time in detention if it proved our borders were being policed."
David added: "I set out feeling pretty confident someone would stop us. But as we got farther along, I began to think our borders aren't as secure as we think. I was shocked at how easy it was."
 
Another participant in the show, journalist Khurram, from Yorkshire, attempted to get into the UK from Holland using a passport borrowed from a friend.
But despite Khurram bearing no resemblance to the man in the photograph, he is waved through at Amsterdam and Newcastle without a second look.
Khurram, who was travelling with two passengers with legitimate passport said he could "feel the intensity of my heartbeat increase" as a police office approached the vehicle.
But the group is only asked whether they are carrying "weapons, drugs or alcohol," to which the can truthfully reply, "no".
Another participant, Asher, 25, tries a more hazardous route - crossing the Channel in a rubber dinghy.
The eight hour, 70 mile round trip is rough, despite Asher being an experienced sailing, kayaking and powerboat instructor.
He said: "To be crossing the Channel in this inflatable dinghy, even with small waves, is nuts."
 
Five hours in, Asher seen 35 miles into his trip, frantically bailing water out of the dinghy.
He said later: "The boat almost sank.
"The waves were so big. In open sea, it's impossible not to be terrified. I was frightened pretty much all the journey. It's one of the most dangerous ways of crossing the Channel.
He added: "I've seen videos of the boats people-traffickers use.
"They are meant to carry four or five people but they cram in up to 25 and they're only just sitting on top of the water. They're so exposed.
 
"If you're not experienced and don't know what you're doing, then God speed."
Asher is sympathetic to the plight of those people travelling to the UK in search of a better life.
His own grandma, 80, a retired cancer nurse, came over from Jamaica on the Windrush in the 1950s.
He said: "We are the lucky ones in a rich country with so many benefits. Border Force is doing its best, but how on earth are you going to stop every yacht, dinghy or powerboat crossing the Channel?"
Alim, a hip hop artist from Sierra Leone, who has lived in Britain since he was eight, also had an easy passage, simply hiding under a blanket in lorry driver, Tony's cab.
News of the documentary comes just over a week after 39 people from Vietnam, believed to have been smuggled into the UK, were found dead in a refrigerated lorry trailer in Essex.
Due to the nature of illegal migration, the Office for National Statistics says that it is not possible to accurately predict the number of people who enter the country illegally.
The series is an unprecedented national security experiment: no one has ever tested our borders on this scale, with such a large variety of methods.
Alf Lawrie, Head of Factual Entertainment at Channel 4 said, “This dramatic series has real purpose at its heart. Extreme, authentic, and utterly timely, it is a stand-out experiment that we hope will inform the national conversation.”
Ed Kellie, Executive Producer and Founder of ScreenDog added, “Our borders fuel fiery debate, but little is known about how secure they really are. The best way to truly find out is to try to break through.”

        Smuggled starts on Monday at 9pm on Channel 4.
      
