
# Griezmann is still failing to 'connect' with the forwards at Barça

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:39:07+00:00**

Author: **Juan Manuel Díaz**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/barca/griezmann-is-still-failing-to-connect-with-the-forwards-at-barca-7716377)

A goalless draw against Slavia Prague at the Camp Nou has caused many onlookers to question what's going wrong at the Camp Nou under Ernesto Valverde. One of those major talking points is Antoine Griezmann's role in the team. He, alongside Frenkie de Jong, was the key new signing this summer but he's yet to find an understanding alongside Lionel Messi and Luis Suarez.
The recent implosion against Levante has caused some supporters to question whether this team has learnt its lessons from the losses to Roma and Liverpool.
In the absence of Suarez, the Griezmann-Messi connection also didn't work against Slavia.
Despite Slavia setting up for a draw, Barça had plenty of chances to score but couldn't find their shooting boots. When Kolar couldn't keep the ball out, the woodwork helped him out. But perhaps Messi's effort after 35 minutes symbolised the lack of a connection between Griezmann and the Argentine star.
The captain found himself on the edge of the area and decided to shoot on goal with his favoured left foot. It was a logical choice to make, especially for someone of Messi's quality, and it almost ended up in the back of the net.
Yet there was another option available to Messi, made clearer once his strike didn't go in. Griezmann was unmarked to his left.
UEFA release plenty of stats following the conclusion of the game and one which catches the eye are passes between certain pairs of players. Messi found Griezmann three time and the French forward only returned the favour once. Only Dembele, Vidal and ter Stegen saw less of the ball than Griezmann.
He spent most of the match on the left but moved to the right in the second half. Griezmann failed to register a single shot on target.
It's a similar story in the other matches in the Champions League.
What happened in Barça's victory in Prague two weeks ago? Valverde opted for his first choice front three but whilst Messi and Suarez saw out the full 90 minutes, Griezmann was replaced with 20 minutes left.
Once again, by the time Griezmann sat on the bench he had failed to register a single shot on target. He received single passes from his strike partners whilst he found Suarez twice and Messi 4 times. Only ter Stegen received fewer passes in the game than the Frenchman.
One week before, Barça struggled against Inter in the first half. Ter Stegen saved the team from being down and out after 45 minutes. Messi turned the match around but Suarez grabbed both goals.
Griezmann was on the left again but worked hard in defence to help the side withstand the pressure. This time he managed three shots on target.
The French striker passed to Messi and Suarez twice. However, Messi found Suarez 10 times and Griezmann on just 3 occasions. Suarez passed it to Messi 5 times and Griezmann 3 times.
Griezmann started with Suarez and a recently returned from injury Messi on the bench. He managed two shots on target.
The Frenchman and 'El Pistolero' both played the full match with Messi replacing Ansu Fati in the second half. Griezmann passed to Suarez three times, Luis returning the favour (also three). Messi found Griezmann twice (Suarez once),
