
# Kamala Harris prepares for last stand in Iowa

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:32:17+00:00**

Author: **Naomi Lim**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/kamala-harris-prepares-for-last-stand-in-iowa)

DES MOINES, Iowa —⁠ Kamala Harris is preparing to make the last stand of her presidential campaign here.
The California senator, 55, joked in September that she was “f—king moving to Iowa.” But a memo leaked this week outlining deep cuts to the Democrat’s headquarters in Baltimore and a deployment of her New Hampshire, Nevada, and California teams to the first-in-the-nation state revealed that the Iowa strategy for preserving her White House bid is no laughing matter.
“To effectively compete with the top campaigns and make the necessary investments in the critical final 100 days to the caucus, we need to reduce expenditures elsewhere and realign resources,” Harris’ campaign manager Juan Rodriguez wrote in the one-page memo.
Rodriguez, who retained his title despite being stripped of most of his day-to-day responsibilities last month in another staff shake-up, said he and others based in Baltimore would take pay cuts, while others would be fired, shifting the focus of the campaign's efforts to Iowa, including a seven-figure paid media boost prior to the caucuses on Feb. 3.
Harris will need to dramatically improve her standing in Iowa. Although she spent 15 days in October in the state, Harris still averages just 3% support there, compared to 4.6% nationwide, according to RealClearPolitics data.
Iowa pollster J. Ann Selzer said Harris’ memo reminded her of campaigns “perceived to be a lost cause,” such as that of Rick Santorum, who then went on to win the 2012 Republican caucuses, even though he'd been dwindling in single digits.
“He didn’t do that well in New Hampshire, but the point is Iowa. If you win Iowa, it does give you a shot,” Selzer told the Washington Examiner.
Selzer said that her polling indicates that only a fifth of caucusgoers have their minds up and couldn't be persuaded to vote for a different candidate. "Keep in mind the process of the caucuses: It’s designed for people to change their minds on caucus night," she said.
Political historian Brian Rosenwald said that candidates' “ebbs and flows” were exacerbated by the length of modern campaigns, noting Bill Clinton didn’t declare his White House bid until Oct. 3, 1991. It’s not unusual for front-runners to encounter problems and implode as Ed Muskie did in 1972 and Gary Hart in 1987. It's also not uncommon to see public opinion swings as voters tune into the election, he told the Washington Examiner.
Rosenwald noted that John Kerry in 2004 and John McCain in 2008 captured their parties' nominations even though both were defeated in the fall.
“I can see someone like Harris saying, ‘OK, we need to find a way to dramatically overperform expectations somewhere, and, as fundraising dries up, having to shift resources into a place where she might achieve that result. Because of the money and momentum dynamics in a primary, it makes sense that her last stand would likely have to come in an early state," he said.
As rational as it may be, "Iowa or bust" is a gamble.
Rosenwald cited Jimmy Carter in 1976 and George H.W. Bush in 1980 as examples of “going all in in states or having pivotal states," which resulted in different outcomes. Bush’s Iowa win was swiftly followed by Ronald Reagan investing heavily in New Hampshire and proceeding on to the presidency. Bush reversed his fortunes in 1988 after finishing third in Iowa by going negative on Bob Dole in New Hampshire, trouncing him to become his party’s standard-bearer.
New Hampshire state Rep. Tim Egan, a supporter of Joe Biden, said Harris’ exodus from his state was disappointing but found the trimming of her Baltimore staff more troubling.
“I think if you’re a realistic candidate, then you’re a candidate with some presence in every state because people will see that,” he said.
"You are now beginning to see who are the real candidates, who has a chance to play nationally, lead a party, lead a nation, and you’re beginning to see that separation," he said. "This is par for the course.”
This week's change-up comes after a summerlong slump for Harris.
The senator, often compared to Barack Obama due to their mixed-race backgrounds and international upbringings, was lauded in January for drawing a 20,000-strong crowd to her launch event in Oakland, California.
But a polling and fundraising bump after the June debate following her confrontation with former Vice President Biden over his opposition to federally mandated busing in the 1960s and 1970s precipitated a backlash, particularly because she couldn’t articulate her own position on the issue. She's been nicknamed “Kamala the Cop” by critics of her “tough on crime” record as San Francisco district attorney and California state attorney general, and scrutinized for flip flopping on whether private health insurers should be banned as they would be under “Medicare for all.”
