
# Terminator: Dark Fate movie review: A new beginning

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Shyam Prasad S**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/entertainment/reviews/terminator-dark-fate-movie-review-a-new-beginning/articleshow/71871783.cms)

The long wait and fight for dubbing films from other languages to Kannada has not only come to an end, but has taken a leap into the future too. This is the first big Hollywood film dubbed and released simultaneously with the original. First things first. The Kannada dubbing is adequate to follow the plot and understand whatever physics, technology and time travel ideas James Cameron and Hollywood have conceived. It is also genuinely funny in places and managed to trigger instant applause from the audience. This sequel belongs to Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton). She even gets to mouth the most famous dialogue of the Terminator series. T-800 (Arnold) gets to say the opposite. It is interesting to see that in the Kannada version, Arnold says it in English. That is the good part. There is no unnecessary attempt at a bookish word-for-word conversion. Retaining English words like “augmented” retains the original intention as well. Sarah Connor gets all the best lines and Sudha Narasimharaju’s dubbing for the character is perfect. The translation for the main characters is top class. The same cannot be said for the minor characters. There are rough edges on some of them with the emotions missing. This is something you notice in some of the dubbed children’s cartoons on TV. The dubbing for the main characters and the minor ones seem to have been done separately. The effort to keep the language colloquial is also sometimes forgotten. These are really minor irritants, something you won’t even notice in a made-to-be-blockbuster Hollwood extravaganza. The Kannada version is for those who would say, “English films should not have so much talk.” Even if this is your first film of the franchise, the dubbing makes it easy to follow. Terminator films have been a series of chase sequences. The bad guys chasing the good ones (one good person actually) to stop them from changing the future. The characters aged, changed and now are put along with each other. The Terminators have evolved superbly, both the good ones and the bad ones. The old T-800 has after a long stint in our world has even developed emotions (crying emoticon). Howmuchever the machines of the future throw at us, we can beat them. The Kannada audience and the post-millennials may treat the film similarly. For the rest, the theme music is the only saving grace. For the Kannada audience not fed on English films, everything is new and sensational. There is a scene where Arnold and Linda Hamilton appear as their younger selves. It is the promise that long after they are gone, the Terminator series will still feature them. And the first thing again. Do Caucasians speaking Kannada look normal? A Mexican smuggler in the film has a similar doubt about American characters he has to smuggle across the border. “They don’t look like us,” he says. It will take only a film or two to be get familiarised with this.
