
# Harvey Proctor demands police investigate Operation Midland officers

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:01:08+00:00**

Author: **Simon Murphy**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2019/nov/04/harvey-proctor-demands-police-investigate-operation-midland-officers)


        Ex-MP wants five officers to face criminal inquiry over alleged paedophile ring case
      
The former Tory MP Harvey Proctor who was falsely accused of being part of a VIP paedophile ring in Westminster is calling for five police officers who worked on Scotland Yard’s inquiry to face a criminal investigation.
Proctor spoke out after a damning report last month laid bare a series of failings in the £2.5m Metropolitan police investigation into the allegations. The report revealed officers unlawfully obtained warrants to search the homes of Proctor and other falsely accused men.
The ex-politician has submitted a criminal complaint about five officers involved in the inquiry into the claims of Carl Beech – known as “Nick” when he first came forward in 2014 – who was jailed for 18 years in July over the false allegations.
Proctor wants the officers to be investigated and interviewed under caution. They include Steve Rodhouse, who was a deputy assistant commissioner and the gold commander of the investigation and is now the deputy director general of the National Crime Agency, Britain’s version of the FBI. The other four, who have all retired from the Met, are Kenny McDonald, Eric Sword, Alison Hepworth and Diane Tudway.
The Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) watchdog earlier cleared officers involved in Operation Midland of wrongdoing, but Proctor is accusing the five of perverting the course of justice and misconduct in public office.
The 72-year-old told a press conference in Westminster that he had made a formal complaint about the five officers. “It is unprecedented that two senior and respected judges should publicly allege criminality in the conduct of a police investigation,” he said.
“I waited for the MPS [Metropolitan Police Service] and the IOPC to take the necessary action to trigger a full police investigation into this alleged criminality. In the absence of such action and investigation, after the fullest and most careful consideration, having taken legal advice, and with the deepest regret, I am compelled, in the interest of justice, to report these matters as crimes to Northumbria police.”
The force, he said, should not limit its investigation to the five officers and should “go where the evidence takes them”.
