
# Games With Ray Tracing – What Can You Play?

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:42:38+00:00**

Author: **Mike Sanders**

Original: [eTeknix](https://www.eteknix.com/games-with-ray-tracing-what-can-you-play/)

With the release of the Nvidia 20XX RTX graphics cards last year, Team Green launched what was (arguably) one of the biggest innovations in GPU technology for quite some time. Namely, ray tracing and DLSS.
Admittedly, there has been some (quite fair) criticism that despite the introduction of DLSS (Deep Learning Super Sampling) and ray tracing, the gaming industry has been a little slow in adopting the new features offered.
If you are, however, a proud owner of an Nvidia 20XX graphics card and want to see what all the fuss is about, then the following games or applications are a great place to start!
So, you might be wondering exactly what this technology does. Well, before we get into the games and applications that support the RTX features, we can give you a brief description of what both DLSS and ray tracing is and does.
DLSS (Deep Learning Super Sampling) is an Nvidia RTX technology that uses AI to boost a games framerate within graphically-intensive workloads. The main perk of it is that, in theory, higher resolutions can be used without any notable impact on a game’s performance.
Ray Tracing is a little bit more complicated than DLSS. In it’s simplest terms, however, the ray-tracing offered via the hardware in Nvidia 20XX graphics cards effectively allows for light and shadow to be realistically rendered in real-time.
So, what difference does this offer? Well, to date, games have had to manually insert lighting effects, reflections, and shadows graphically. In other words, if a lighting effect is shown, it had to manually be inserted there. With this new technology, however, it can be done automatically and to a much higher standard of realism.
It should be noted, for the sake of clarity, that Nvidia didn’t ‘invent’ this technology. It has, actually, been around for quite some time. The release of the Nvidia RTX graphics cards, however, provided the first modern and hardware dedicated solution for desktop users.
Despite the popularity of the Nvidia 20XX graphics cards since their launch, to date, there aren’t exactly masses of games and applications that support the RTX features on offer. The good news is that the list is currently growing and, if you are in the market for something to stretch the legs of your brand new Nvidia card, then the following will be perfect for you.
