
# KCSE candidate in Kisumu among 4 being trailed by police for defiling 13-year-old

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:32:22+00:00**

Author: **OJWANG JOE**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/kcse-candidate-in-kisumu-among-4-being-trailed-by-police-for-defiling-13-year-old/)


        KISUMU, Kenya, Nov 6 – Police in Kisumu have launched a manhunt for four men accused of defiling a 13-year-old girl.
      
The victim, a Class VII pupil, was reportedly defiled in Ofunyu village in Kisumu East sub-county on the outskirts of the lakeside city, Elija Omumbo a local Chief confirmed.
ADVERTISEMENT
The minor was admitted at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital (JOOTRH) for treatment after the incident that occurred Tuesday night.
Omumbo said the minor’s mother reported the matter noting that known suspects are closely being trailed.
“One of the four suspects was positively identified by the minor and that gives the police a good lead to nab all the perpetrators,” the mother who sought to remain anonymous said.
The suspect, she said, is a Form IV student and candidate for the Kenya Certificate Secondary Education (KCSE) at a local secondary school in the area.
The suspects forcefully took the victim away on a motorbike to a house in the area and defiled her repeatedly.
Her mother said two other suspects were also involved but did not take part in the act.
The mother, however, accused the police in Nyamasaria of impeding arrests even after one suspect was identified.
“I had to report the matter again at Kondele Police Station where the matter is currently being probed,” she added.
Post Views: 190
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
