
# Facebook Discloses Privacy Breach Caused by Groups API Bug

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:36:48+00:00**

Author: **Sergiu Gatlan**

Original: [BleepingComputer](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/facebook-discloses-privacy-breach-caused-by-groups-api-bug/)

Facebook said that private group member information such as names and profile pictures might have been accessed by approximately 100 developers of primarily video streaming and social media management apps.
This happened after Facebook restricted or removed several developer APIs, including the Groups API, the one that provided the app devs with extended access to group info for longer than intended after their apps retained access to the data.
"Today we are also reaching out to roughly 100 partners who may have accessed this information since we announced restrictions to the Groups API, although it's likely that the number that actually did is smaller and decreased over time," said Konstantinos Papamiltiadis, Facebook Director of Developer Platforms & Programs.
"We know at least 11 partners accessed group members’ information in the last 60 days," Papamiltiadis also added in the blog post announcing changes to Groups API access.
Before April 2018, group admins could authorize an app for a group, which gave the app developer access to information in the group. But as part of the changes to the Groups API after April 2018, if an admin authorized this access, that app would only get information, such as the group’s name, the number of users, and the content of posts. For an app to access additional information such as name and profile picture in connection with group activity, group members had to opt-in. - Konstantinos Papamiltiadis
Facebook says that the developers that may have accessed group members’ information after the Groups API restrictions were announced in April 2018 will be asked to delete member data that might have been retained even though no evidence of abuse was discovered so far.
The company also plans to conduct audits to confirm that the developers have deleted the data as requested.
"We aim to maintain a high standard of security on our platform and to treat our developers fairly," Papamiltiadis said. "As we’ve said in the past, the new framework under our agreement with the FTC means more accountability and transparency into how we build and maintain products."
This incident is part of a long list of security and privacy blunders that impacted the social network during the last few years, culminating with an agreement with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) from July 2019 requiring Facebook to pay a $5 billion penalty after the Cambridge Analytica investigation was concluded.
That was the largest ever consumer privacy violation penalty paid by a company and one of the largest ever imposed by the U.S. Government for any sort of violation.
As part of this settlement, the company was ordered to implement a new privacy and information protection framework, as well as to provide the FTC with new monitoring tools.
The agreement was also designed to resolve charges alleging that Facebook violated an FTC consent order from 2012 "by deceiving users about their ability to control the privacy of their personal information."
In late March 2019, the company disclosed that the passwords of hundreds of millions of Facebook and Instagram users were stored in plain text for years on several internal data storage systems.
In September 2018, Facebook said that a security vulnerability associated with Facebook's "View As" feature affected 50 million users and allowed malicious third parties to potentially access the impacted users' account information. One month later, Facebook said that 30 million of those users had their access tokens stolen by attackers.
Facebook also revealed in April 2018 that Cambridge Analytica accessed the personal info of more than 87 million users (80% of them US citizens), and not 50 million, as the company initially reported.
