
# X-Men Alum Daniel Cudmore Joins Marvel’s Helstrom Series

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:04:57+00:00**

Author: **Robert Workman**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/471193-x-men-alum-daniel-cudmore-joins-marvels-helstrom-series)

Hulu’s take on the classic Marvel’s Helstrom has added another familiar face to the cast, especially for fans of Fox’s X-Men movies. Via Deadline, Daniel Cudmore will join the cast. Cudemore originally appeared as Peter Rasputin, a.k.a. Colossus, in X2: X-Men United back in 2003. He later reprised the role for its follow-up, X-Men: The Last Stand and X-Men: Days of Future Past.
Tom Austen, Sydney Lemmon, Elizabeth Marvel, Ariana Guerra, Robert Wisdom, June Carryl and Alain Uy have already been cast in the show. Paul Zbyszewski will serve as both showrunner and executive producer, alongside Marvel TV’s Jeph Loeb.
The series follows Daimon and Ana Helstrom, a brother and sister who utilize special abilities to track down a serial killer. However, they also happen to be the children of said killer. Cudmore will portray a nurse by the name of Keith Spivey. He works at St. Teresa’s, the institution where Daimon and Ana’s mother, Victoria, has resided for the past two decades.
This series will feature a non-traditional horror setting. During the cast announcement last month, Loeb talked about how it will all come together.
“Marvel Television is thrilled to have such an amazing cast that enriches Paul’s fantastic writing,” said Loeb at the time. “The ensemble is the perfect way to bring our audience into our Adventure into Fear franchise causing delicious nightmares of what’s to come!”
Helstrom is currently in production. It will probably premiere on Hulu in 2020.
What do you think about Cudmore joining the cast of Helstrom? Let us know in the comments below!

        Recommended Reading: 
        
          Hellstorm By Warren Ellis Omnibus
        
      

        We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
      
