
# Tottenham appeal against Son Heung-min red card for André Gomes challenge

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:54:59+00:00**

Author: **David Hytner**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/04/tottenham-appeal-son-heung-min-red-card-andre-gomes-everton)


        • South Korean faces ban after controversial sending-off• Spurs’ sympathy for Gomes mixed with surprise at red card
      
Tottenham have appealed to the Football Association against Son Heung-min’s dismissal at Everton on Sunday, which led to André Gomes’s horrific injury.
The Spurs winger tripped Gomes in the 79th minute of the 1-1 draw, sending him crashing towards Serge Aurier with dire consequences and, initially, the referee, Martin Atkinson, reached for a yellow card.
Yet Atkinson upgraded his decision to a straight red when he realised how severely Gomes had been injured – the Portuguese midfielder suffered a fractured dislocation of the right ankle – and it has left Son facing a three-game domestic ban.
There is tremendous sympathy at Spurs for Gomes and, equally, an amazement that his plight led to Son being punished more harshly. As things stand, Son will miss the Premier League games against Sheffield United (home), West Ham (away) and Bournemouth (home). Spurs hope the appeal will change that.
The Premier League explained that Son’s red card was “for endangering the safety of a player which happened as a consequence of his initial challenge” and the South Korean has been left distraught.
At Monday’s recovery session, the manager Mauricio Pochettino and Son’s teammates tried to tell him that he ought not to blame himself. Son, who wants Gomes to know that he wishes him well for his rehabilitation, will travel to Belgrade on Tuesday for theChampions League tie against Red Star on Wednesday night. Harry Kane, who missed the Everton game because of illness, was involved in Monday’s training.
