
# Roger Stone left court early on first day of trial complaining of food poisoning

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:21:19+00:00**

Author: **Caitlin Yilek**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/roger-stone-left-court-early-on-first-day-of-trial-complaining-of-food-poisoning)

Roger Stone abruptly left a Washington courtroom on Tuesday, minutes after the first potential juror took the witness stand.
A spectator collapsed shortly after Stone’s departure.
Stone left the courtroom after the first juror, a former Obama-era press secretary for the Office of Management and Budget, admitted to having negative views about President Trump and following coverage of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, according to Politico.
The potential juror, whose husband works at the Justice Department in the division that charged Stone, said she did not have strong opinions about the longtime Trump associate.
Stone’s lawyer’s sought to strike the woman as a potential juror, which was denied by Judge Amy Berman Jackson.
Stone and his wife then left the courtroom, leaving the judge appearing confused.
Then a man in the back of the courtroom loudly moaned and collapsed. Stone’s daughter, a nurse, attended to the sick spectator, who walked out of the courtroom about 15 minutes later and was taken out of the building on a stretcher.
The incident caused a 45-minute delay in jury selection, but when the proceedings resumed Stone had returned to the courtroom.
Stone, who appeared ill, rested his head on one of his hands, catching the attention of Jackson, who called for a lunch break.
The provocateur left the courtroom arm-in-arm with his wife and daughter and went to the courthouse’s health unit.
Stone later asked to be excused from the court, explaining that he had food poisoning. Journalist Josh Gerstein said Stone left the courtroom clutching a Gatorade bottle.
Stone is accused of witness tampering, lying to Congress, and obstructing justice. The charges relate to his attempts to reach WikiLeaks during the 2016 presidential campaign. He has pleaded not guilty.
