
# Google will support most Chromebooks for another year

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:35:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/google-will-support-most-chromebooks-for-another-year/)

While Google pushes regular updates to ChromeOS devices, these updates depend on several device-specific non-Google hardware and software providers. Due to this reason, many older Chromebooks don’t receive updates indefinitely, leaving them vulnerable just a few years after their release. In contrast, traditional PCs continue to receive software updates until the hardware gives up. Google plans to change that and to that effect, the company has now extended the End-of-Life date for over 135 Chromebooks from different manufacturers.
As reported by Android Police, Google has updated its auto update policy for Chromebooks, promising regular updates to a number of devices until they reach their Auto Update Expiration (AUE). The company has extended the AUE date for many older Chromebooks by a year, with a few receiving a two year or a six-month extension. Most notably, the Asus Chromebook Flip C302, Google Chromebook Pixel 2015, Google Pixel Slate, and the Samsung Chromebook 3 have received updated AUE dates. However, the Prowise Chromebook Eduline has, unfortunately, had its support reduced by a year (June 2025 to June 2024).
In case you own a Chromebook, it’s quite likely that you’ll get automatic feature and security updates for another year. Just to be sure, you should head over to the Google Support page from the link below and check the AUE date for your device. For devices with the Chrome Education Upgrade or Chrome Enterprise Upgrade, the AUE date will be available in the Google Admin console. In case you own such a device, you’ll be able to check the AUE date from within the Chrome management setting on the admin console home page.

        Source: Google Support
      

        Via: Android Police
      
