
# NZ v ENG | Want to rotate squad with a set of 16-17 players, announces Eoin Morgan

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:20:31+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/nz-v-eng-want-to-rotate-squad-with-a-set-of-16-17-players-announces-eoin-morgan?utm_medium=rss)


        After their win the opening match of the T20I series against New Zealand, skipper Eoin Morgan revealed that England plan to rotate their T20 team, giving a set of 16-17 players as many opportunities as possible. England chased down New Zealand’s total of 153 with seven wickets in hand.
      
After a World Cup-winning summer and an intense Ashes series, England travelled to the opposite end of the world to play five T20Is and two Tests. And so far, things have gone rather brightly for the English, winning one of the two practice matches before a comprehensive win in the first T20I. Morgan, who hit the winning runs at Christchurch on Friday, said that they hope to prepare for the T20 World Cup next year with seven set players and two or three spots for newcomers to perform.
“Had a great time so far and hopefully we can cash in the same way later on in the series. We feel that we actually need 16-17 guys to start in the playing eleven and then give them opportunities all along, trying to stick to their strengths and do what they do in international cricket. We are looking at seven guys and with a couple of spots up for grabs, we are allowing guys to come in and grab opportunities. It's nice to start the series with a win,” Morgan said after the match, reported Cricbuzz.
England picked two debutants — Pat Brown and Sam Curran — and elected to bowl after winning the toss. But for a late flourish from Daryl Mitchell (30 off 17 balls), the home side hardly got away because of some clever bowling by the visitors. Pat and Sam returned with a wicket each, while Morgan was pleased with the anchor role played by man-of-the-match James Vince, who scored a 38-ball 59.
“Very happy. The game is won and lost in the first innings and thought our bowlers bowled really well. Two debutants, Pat Brown and Sam Curran had a good game and really pleased for them. They took advantage of the two-paced wicket and we ended up chasing 20 less. Vince was outstanding with the bat,” Morgan added. 
The visitors, on the other hand, did not play up to their usual standards at home and skipper Tim Southee admitted as much. Although the Kiwi bowlers kept it tight, they lacked penetration throughout, with left-arm spinner Mitchell Santner (three for 23) the only wicket-taker.
“Wicket didn't play as well as we would have liked but we were a little bit off in all three areas. We got to an okay score and we haven't been able to take wickets, and eventually couldn't put pressure on the run rate,” Southee said after the match. 
“Vince came out and took the game away from us. We got a score on the board that we could defend, but we were a little bit off with the ball and in the field which clearly didn't help,” Southee added.
