
# Senate prodded on bill declaring ‘Yolanda Day’

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:51:45+00:00**

Author: **Jester P. Manalastas**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/senate-prodded-bill-declaring-yolanda-day)

Majority Leader and Leyte Rep. Martin Romualdez and wife Tingog party-list Rep. Yedda Marie Kittilstvedt Romualdez, chairman of the House Committee on Children’s Welfare, are both  principal authors of House Bill (HB) No. 4960 or the Yolanda Commemoration Day.
Today, the country commemorates the 6th anniversary of Super Typhoon Yolanda  (Haiyan) that hit Central Philippines killing more than 6,000 people and almost 2,000 missing.
“We appeal to the honorable members of the Senate to also pass this measure that is very important to us,” the Romualdez couple said.
Last Monday, the House of Representatives approved on third and final reading House Bill 4960 or the Yolanda Commemoration Day with an overwhelming 213 votes.
“Despite so much progress that has been achieved in building back our communities even better, we are still mourning for those who perished,” the couple said.
They lauded the House leadership headed by Speaker Alan Peter Cayetano and their colleagues for the immediate approval of a proposed law declaring November 8 of every year as the “Yolanda Commemoration Day” in the Eastern Visayas region.
HB No. 4960 replaced HB No. 3300 which declares November 8 of every year a special non-working holiday in Eastern Visayas.
The Romualdez couple said that the solid support extended to their measure showed the continued “malasakit” (compassion) of the House of Representatives to the victims of super typhoon exactly Yolanda six years ago this Friday.
The Romualdez couple also cited the resilience of the people from Region 8, especially Tacloban City, who were able to recover from the tragedy.
“This bill is intended to be a fitting tribute to the memory of all who died in the disaster and to salute the selflessness of all volunteers and organizations that took part and contributed in the recovery and rehabilitation efforts of the communities affected by the typhoon,” they said. Under the measure, November 8 of every year shall be declared as a special non-working holiday in Tacloban City and the provinces of Leyte, Biliran, Southern Leyte, Northern Samar, Western Samar and Eastern Samar to commemorate the onslaught of Supertyphoon Yolanda.
