
# “We Have A Third World Country”: Dallas Woods Wants To Hold Australia Accountable

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:32:02+00:00**

Author: **Katie Cunningham**

Original: [Junkee](https://junkee.com/dallas-woods-profile/226768)

These are the basics about Wyndham, Western Australia: it has a population of 780. It’s been known to tip the mercury at 46 degrees Celsius in summer, a climate that’s earned it the title of Australia’s hottest town.
It is 3351 kilometres from Perth, 1038 kilometres from Broome, or 446 kilometres from Darwin, nestled on Duulngari country in the Kimberly region. Its main tourist attraction is a 20-metre high Big Croc statue.
It’s also the place where rapper Dallas Woods grew up. Ask him about it and he’ll tell you the good with the bad.
“The Kimberley made me who I am,” he says. “Only because it wasn’t easy. It was like war.”
Today, Woods, a Noongar man, is an ascendant name in Australia’s hip-hop scene. Though he’s only officially a year into his career, Woods has already released three singles of his own plus a collaboration with Baker Boy, his longtime friend, collaborator and right-hand-man. He’s been played on triple j and performed at festivals like Splendour in the Grass, Laneway and Groovin the Moo.
But his path to music began back in Wyndham. It’s kind of a long story.
At age seven, Woods moved from Perth to Wyndham together with his mum and six siblings. It was, he says, “a big change” from the city.
“No one really spoke English,” he says. The heat was oppressive, the cultural differences were stark, and the community was so small that every student, from year six until year ten, was taught in the same classroom. Dallas loved the freedom of life there, the time spent outdoors and the sense of community — his affection for the town is obvious in the 64 Bars rap about growing up in Wyndham he created with Red Bull, who have long championed Dallas’ work. But there were challenges, too.
“You were exposed to a lot of things — drinking, racism — before you should have been and that makes you grow up a lot quicker,” he reflects. “When you live in a community where it’s a 50 minute walk from one end to the other, all this stuff was just so in your face.”
