
# Troy Parrott Will Be Part Of Ireland Squad For Games Against New Zealand And Denmark

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:39:05+00:00**

Author: **Robert Redmond**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/football/robredmond/ireland-squad-denmark-troy-parrott-new-zealand/)


        Mick McCarthy has confirmed that Troy Parrott will be in the Republic of Ireland squad for the upcoming games against New Zealand and Denmark.
      
Parrott doesn’t turn 18 until February and has only made one senior appearance for Tottenham Hotspur, but he is the highest-rated talent in Irish football. The Dubliner has already scored three times for Ireland Under-21s.
He will be part of the senior squad for the friendly against New Zealand on November 14th and the Euro 2020 qualifier against Denmark four days later.
On Thursday, McCarthy will confirm the 23-man selection for the matches at the Aviva Stadium, but revealed ahead of the announcement that Parrott, and Aaron Connolly, will be part of his squad.
“I will announce the final squad for the friendly with New Zealand and the European Championship qualifier with Denmark on Thursday but I can confirm that Troy will be on the list,” McCarthy told the FAI’s website.
McCarthy said that Parrott has “been pushing for this step-up for some time.”
The Ireland manager also said that he expects Glenn Whelan, Darren Randolph and Matt Doherty to be fit for the upcoming games. Whelan and Doherty were substituted off in their respective matches over the weekend. Randolph has missed Middlesbrough’s last three games due to a thigh injury.
However, McCarthy is confident that all three will be able to play against Denmark, a match Ireland must win to qualify for Euro 2020.
