
# What to Do If You Can't Focus While Working Remotely

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:38:14+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/lifestyle/health-and-wellness/what-do-if-you-cant-focus-while-working-remotely)

Nowadays, a lot of people consider working remotely. Having a computer and the Internet in your home allows you to do many jobs for which people had to come to the office just about twenty years ago. What is more, there are a lot of the rather "young" job positions, that are mostly occupied by remote workers and a lot of ways to work from home. Many online services, such as EssayShark has most of their employees working remotely. However, while remote work has many benefits, there is one problem that many remote workers usually report – the concentration. So, why staying focused on your work is hard when you are at home?
Tip 1: Minimize the distractionsWhile at home, there are many things that may seem more interesting than working. But think about that - which of them are the most time-consuming? Switching off your phone or using apps that block social media while you work can save you lots of working hours! What is more, sometimes simply removing the distracting objects from the room where you are working can help. If you have to walk to another room to procrastinate, procrastination won't work!
Tip 2: Systemize your workKnowing that you have a ton of work to do, unfortunately, doesn't help to increase productivity. You just can't think of where even to start! But if you try and cut your daily work into several parts or stages, the results may impress you. When your work is systemized into a checklist, it seems much easier and accessible. At the same time, it is much more satisfying to reflect on the points you have already completed than to see the large chunk of work that is lying ahead. What is more, with having your work scheduled, you can make yourself much more time-efficient, making the best of all the benefits of working at home!
Tip 3: Take time to restWe've already discussed the working schedule, but what about the breaks? To many people, taking breaks during work seems like diving into procrastination. However, it is a well-known fact that working without rest lowers your effectiveness. As a result, you'll spend much more time on your work. But how to avoid those time-consuming breaks where you dive into your social media and 30 minutes pass like one second? Make your brakes scheduled! The ten-minute break between different stages of your work would allow you to "recharge" and make your work more comfortable. You are working from home - why can't you cook yourself a quick meal or walk your dog between your working routine?
Tip 4: Find time for physical activityThis is something you could do during your brakes. Exercising during the working hours not only helps you to rest your brain from work but is also a great opportunity to keep yourself in shape. Some physical activity would also help to increase your concentration. When your brakes are filled with exercising, you actually have no time to procrastinate! What is more, you won't be complaining that work doesn't give you time for the workout. You can make the workout a part of your daily work! So, save some time for exercising!
Tip 5: Change your workplaceWorking all the time in one place, especially when your work is rather monotonous can become boring. And boredom is one of the biggest drivers of procrastination. However, since you work at home, you have a great chance to avoid it! Try changing the place where you work. If you live in a house, you can use your patio, and in the case of living in a flat, you may try different rooms. Even a changed view from the window can help you escape boredom. And if you won't be bored, you'll have fewer motives to distract from work.
In ConclusionI really hope that the tips above were helpful. Working from home is a great option that has a ton of benefits. With just a little focus on concentration, you can fully enjoy working in a comfortable environment and the absence of the commute problem. Overall, you can have much more time for yourself while working remotely. So, try these tips and don't let procrastination strip you off of those benefits!
