
# Class sizes average 25 in Regina and Saskatoon elementary schools

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:03:03+00:00**

Author: **Arthur White-Crummey**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/saskatchewan/class-sizes-average-25-at-regina-and-saskatoon-elementary-schools)

Saskatchewan’s big-city school divisions are reporting average elementary class sizes of roughly 25 students for the current school year, substantially higher than the most recently available provincial figure.
Enrolment data for 2019-20 is now in for all four school divisions in Regina and Saskatoon. They show enrolment growth in the range of roughly 600 to 700 students for all but the Regina Catholic School Division, where numbers were steady compared to 2018-19.
Each division compares those figures with the number of classroom teachers on staff to calculate average class sizes, though they do so in different ways. Three of the four school divisions provided a specific ratio that captures 2019-20 class sizes for Grades 1 to 8.
Regina Public Schools reports a pupil-teacher ratio of 24.5.
Saskatoon Public Schools reports a pupil-teacher ratio of 25.16.
Greater Saskatoon Catholic Schools uses a method called average classroom load, and gets a result of 25.4 students.
Regina Catholic School Division did not have a precise number on hand that was directly comparable with the other divisions. But spokeswoman Twylla West said 25 is also a good estimate of the number of students in an average elementary classroom.
She said Regina Catholic’s staffing ratios are about 23 students to a teacher in Grades 1 to 3, plus or minus two students. That rises to 28 by Grades 7 and 8, again with a roughly two-student margin. That suggests some classes have 30 students.
Patrick Maze, president of the Saskatchewan Teachers’ Federation, said 25 students is a heavy load for teachers facing classrooms that include more and more students with complex or special needs, as well as newcomers still learning English.
“There’s only so much time to be able to devote to each student,” Maze said.
“Developing relationships is critical and relationships take time,” he added. “So if you’ve got 25 students, that makes it a heck of a lot more difficult.”
The Ministry of Education has not yet collected provincewide class size data for 2019-20. Its most recent figure, for 2018-19, gave an average class size of 19.1 based on student-teacher ratios. Education Minister Gord Wyant acknowledged that urban divisions exceed that, but only at about 21 students on average.
The ministry figure excludes time that educators spend working in administration and counselling. It also doesn’t count educational assistants or social workers. But it does include teachers working on distance learning, student support services and English as an additional language.
That explains the difference in the numbers. The school divisions generally leave out special education and English as an additional language teachers. They also separate out high school and kindergarten data, saying they aren’t easily comparable and are more difficult to calculate.
Maze said the school division figures “more accurately represent the situation that teachers are experiencing in their classrooms.”
Terry Lazarou, spokesman for Regina Public Schools, said the division hires teachers as needed to keep up with enrolment growth. The priority is to get them in the classroom in front of kids.
But that doesn’t mean Regina Public Schools is satisfied with its class sizes, which are virtually identical to what the division reported in 2018-19.
“We would prefer the number to be lower across the board, but we are working hard to keep it as low as we can within the existing fiscal environment,” Lazarou said.
The class size debate has taken centre stage during the fall legislative sitting, as the NDP accuses the government of presiding over a “crisis in our classrooms.” 
NDP leader Ryan Meili is proposing to cap class size at 24 students from kindergarten to Grade 3. He called the new school divisions numbers “high,” especially for younger kids.
He stressed that it’s merely an average, and doesn’t account for peaks and spikes in certain especially overburdened classrooms.
“We are certainly hearing of lots of classes of 28, 30 or more Grade 1s and 2s,” Meili explained. “Those numbers matter. It’s harder for teachers to give the attention to all of the kids in a class when there’s lots of kids.”
Wyant, the education minister, didn’t comment directly on whether 25 students is too many. He said it depends on the class, and, especially, on the needs of students in it.
“While class size is certainly something we need to be thinking about, composition is the larger issue, because if you have a large class size, but you have a number of children in that class that have special and unique needs, that they need to be addressed, that certainly takes away from the ability of the classroom teacher to provide services to those other children,” said Wyant.
That’s a point where Meili and Maze also agree, but they argue that it shouldn’t be an either-or debate.
“We need to make sure that we’re attending to the diversity of students in the classroom,” said Maze. “And one aspect of that diversity is how many kids are in the class and what supports are available for the teacher to help those students.”

        awhite-crummey@postmedia.com
      
