
# Massimiliano Allegri should replace Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, proclaims Marcello Lippi

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:48:51+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/massimiliano-allegri-should-replace-ole-gunnar-solskjaer-proclaims-marcello-lippi?utm_medium=rss)


        Former Italy manager Marcello Lippi has backed Massimiliano Allegri to succeed Ole Gunnar Solskjaer at Manchester United. Lippi has revealed that he would be delighted to see the former Juventus manager take the reins at Old Trafford in the near future, insisting that Allegri will win trophies.
      
After stepping down as Juventus boss in the summer, Massimilano Allegri is currently on the look-out for another managerial assignment having being linked with a move to Tottenham and even Manchester United. The Red Devils, on the other hand, are toiling under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer and are 10 points off the top four after a miserable 1-0 loss against Bournemouth. That has seen Allegri become the bookmaker's favourite to succeed Solskjaer at the Theatre of Dreams.
However, Niko Kovac’s sacking at Bayern Munich has seen the 52-year-old linked to the job in Germany alongside former Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger but World Cup-winning manager Marcello Lippi has revealed that Allegri should become Manchester United’s coach one day. The Italian also went on to admit that while the club has had a few dark years, they are English football and need to find their way back to that level again.
“Allegri would be good everywhere and as a great admirer of the English club I would be happy to see him take over. Manchester United is the history of English football. There have been dark years but the club is fantastic, from the backroom to the players, everyone can say what it means to play at Old Trafford. First of all, I think Solskjaer was an exceptional striker and a good coach,” said Lippi to Sky Sports.
"For Allegri, I consider him an exemplary professional who has the style of Juventus in his blood. My deep friendship with (Sir Alex) Ferguson allows me to say that he would be the best choice for United."
Earlier in Lippi’s career, he was offered a job at Tottenham but he simply refused due to the language barrier but has insisted that language will not be a problem for Allegri since he is already well versed with English. The former AC Milan boss was the coach of Old Lady for 5 years, between 2014 and 2019, and won the league title in every season he was in charge. However, what sets him apart is the fact that he helped Juventus reach two Champions League finals in that period.
“As I already told you, I refused Tottenham simply because I didn't have a command of the language but also because I loved and respected Juventus. Allegri studies English and is perfect for the British style. He is prepared and shrewd. He reads the game with great ease. He loves challenges and I respect him a lot, I think he is serious and prepared, I think he is a humble person. A great Italian who would do very well in England,” concluded Lippi.
