
# Privacy under threat: Our own Orwellian nightmare in the making

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:24:53+00:00**

Author: **Waqas Ahmed**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2091205/8-privacy-threat-orwellian-nightmare-making/)

ISLAMABAD: The Pakistan government is introducing what appears to be the most invasive web-monitoring system (WMS) ever installed in the country, raising alarm bells among its fraternity of digital rights activists.
But fears that the mechanism may allow state authorities to trample upon both citizens’ privacy and freedom of speech are not the only thing the move has triggered. The fact that the system is being developed by a US-based firm has also raised concerns as to whether it will expose the country to security risks from beyond its borders.
According to details, the government has acquired the services of networking equipment company Sandvine Inc to introduce a system to monitor and inspect all internet traffic passing through the country.  On its website, Sandvine describes itself as a ‘network intelligence company’ that uses automation to develop ‘inline traffic solutions that capture the most granular visibility and identification of all voice, video, and data traffic transiting operator networks.” Although originally established in Canada, the firm is currently headquartered in Fremont, California.

        In-depth surveillance
      
Officials say the system being acquired will allow the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) to carry out ‘deep packet inspection’ (DPI) of all internet traffic in the country, including phone calls over the internet. DPI is a data processing technique that inspects in detail all data sent over a computer network before re-routing or blocking it accordingly.
They insist the system will be used to identify and take action against elements involved in circulating content deemed illegal under the Prevention of Electronic Crimes Act (PECA) 2016, such as blasphemous social media posts as well as anti-state and explicit content. However, rights activists, who have also criticised PECA previously, say such a system may be used to curtail any free speech that authorities deem too critical.
Already, the PTA has blocked over 930,000 websites for disseminating objectionable content. According to the authority’s data, over 30,000 of these sites were carrying anti-state and anti-judiciary content. PTA has also started to take action against elements involved in circulating such material through the support of cellular operators.
PTA signed the contract with Sandvine through a Pakistani intermediary called Inbox Business Technologies Ltd in 2018, sources said. The contract amounts to $18.5 million and has the Pakistan Telecommunication Company Ltd (PTCL) as a signatory, according to them. Under the contract agreement, PTCL will ensure the installation of all the equipment and software being provided by Sandvine to bring the WMS online. Once the system is installed, PTA will attain a special independent status for WMS operations in accordance with PECA, the Telecom Policy 2015 and the Pakistan Telecommunication (Re-Organisation) Act, 1996.
Several details of the contract with Sandvine and the nature of WMS were earlier revealed in a report published by Coda Story.
Speaking to The Express Tribune on condition of anonymity, a key source within the PTA said all other telecom operators in Pakistan are also signatories to the contract. According to the source, the contract stipulates that the telecom operators will share costs for monitoring all long distance calls along with licensing expenses for cellular mobile operators and submarine landing stations. The PTA has also advised the telecom operators to come with their own solutions to analyse and monitor internet traffic in line with the aforementioned laws and policies, the source added.

        Backdoor threats
      
Beyond human rights and digital freedom concerns, the role of Sandvine in developing the system has itself generated significant controversy within the country’s power corridors.
Earlier this year, several opposition lawmakers expressed strong concerns that such a sensitive mechanism was being developed with the assistance of a firm based in the US. In a May senate panel session, Jamaat-e-Islami Senator Mushtaq Ahmed even went so far as accusing the company of having ties with Israeli intelligence agencies.
“Sandvine could serve the interest of Israeli intelligence agencies by allowing it to look into Pakistan’s internet traffic, including Whatsapp communication,” Mushtaq alleged. He also claimed the company had previously been used by American intelligence agencies to spy on both Turkey and Turkish expatriates living in the US. “The US National Security Agency is a known sister organisation of Sandvine Inc,” the senator insisted during the session.
PTA officials, however, strongly denied the rumours, particularly those connecting Sandvine to Israeli intelligence agencies, and maintained that the firm competed for and won the contract in accordance with Public Procurement Rules. They clarified that the only incidental connection Sandvine had to Israel was through the equity company Francisco Partners which has acquired both it and Israeli cyberintelligence firm NSO Group Technologies.
“In addition to Sandvine and NSO, Francisco Partners has invested in over 200 technology firms,” a PTA official said. He added that the equipment and software being developed for Pakistan by Sandvine is free from any security risks.
“Sandvine had to obtain ISO 27001 certification before it could supply us the system and the government also sought help from Inter-Services Intelligence during procurement to ensure there were no backdoors or security threats,” the official told The Express Tribune. “If any security concerns are still discovered at any stage, the contract will be terminated and the company will be held responsible.”
