
# Kamala Harris Closing Three Offices in New Hampshire, 'Go All-In on Iowa'

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:47:19+00:00**

Author: **Hannah Bleau**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/01/kamala-harris-crumbling-in-new-hampshire-closing-three-offices-to-go-all-in-on-iowa/)

Harris’s campaign will no longer have a heavy presence in New Hampshire, reportedly laying off campaign staff and closing offices in Nashua, Portsmouth, and Keene, in order to focus entirely on Iowa. While Harris’s office in Manchester will remain open, WMUR confirmed that it will be “scaled down.”
Per WMUR:
Harris is also recruiting staffers from Nevada in what appears to be a last-ditch effort to garner support in the Hawkeye State.
Harris campaign spokesperson Nate Evans told WMUR:
“The campaign will continue to have a staff presence in New Hampshire but the focus is and will continue to be on Iowa,” Evans continued.
“Sen. Harris will not visit New Hampshire on Nov. 6 and 7, but her name will still be placed on the primary ballot,” he confirmed.
A reporter overheard Harris telling a colleague that she was “f*cking moving to Iowa” in September– a flub that her campaign glommed onto.
Despite beefing up resources and appearances in the Hawkeye State – even helping families prepare Sunday meals as part of her “I feel your pain” tour, Harris is floundering in recent Iowa polls.
A New York Times/Siena College poll released Friday showed Harris far from the top tier of candidates, garnering just three percent support. A Civiqs survey released last week showed similar results, with Harris tying for sixth place with just three percent support:
