
# Deepika Padukone’s post Diwali celebrations with baby pic triggers pregnancy speculation, Ranveer Singh has epic response

Published at: **2019-11-03T02:23:26+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/deepika-padukones-post-diwali-celebrations-with-babys-pic-triggers-pregnancy-speculations-ranveer-singh-has-epic-response/271262/)

Deepika Padukone on Sunday took to Instagram to post a photo of a baby with a caption on post-Diwali celebrations. But her innocuous post appeared to have triggered speculations about her pregnancy.
Posting a photo of a baby, Deepika wrote, “post Diwali celebrations.” The Padmaavat actress concluded her post with a ‘sleeping’ emoji and #diwali.
Deepika’s husband Ranveer Singh was the first to respond to her post with a series of heart-eyes emojis. While others responded with questions on who the baby was in the photo. Then there were those, who asked if Deepika was trying to send a hidden message here.
 
One fan wrote, “Good news coming soon?” Another commented, “Ab baby planning chal rhi hai (Now baby planning is taking place).” “Are you thinking what I am thinking?” asked another fan.
What fuelled speculations on Deepika’s pregnancy was another post with a baby’s photo by the actress.
Many felt that photos shared by Deepika were her own from her childhood and she was simply trying to highlight her priority after Diwali celebrations. The photos of a sleeping baby, according to many fans, was to suggest that she preferred to spend her time sleeping after Diwali.
Deepika and Ranveer had tied the knot in Italy last year with the who’s who of the Indian entertainment industry attending their reception parties in Mumbai.
