
# Best Graphics Card Deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Sean Bradley**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/pc-components/graphics-card-deals-3683339/)

Buying a graphics card is a big investment so you’ll want to make sure you’re buying the one that suits your needs. We’ve got the best graphics cards deals right here, along with some advice on which one to buy.
If you’re planning on building a gaming PC then your graphics card is going to be the very heart of your rig. Combined with the CPU, the GPU is the deciding factor in what graphical settings you can run your game at and the frame rate it will be able to sustain.

        From: AmazonWas: £889.30Now: £640.98  (£248.32 off) View Deal
      
If you want the top of the line Nvidia, here's nearly £250 off the RTX 2080. This is the dual fan overclocked edition from Asus with 8 GB GDDR6 and a clock speed boosted to 1830MHz.

        From: AmazonWas: £459.99Now: £381.52  (£78.47 off) View Deal
      
Save over £70 on this Nvidia RTX 2060. It's the OC edition overclocked to 1785MHz and has 6GB of GDDR6 memory.

        From: EbuyerWas: £519.96Now: £494.98  (£24.98 off) View Deal
      
Get one of the latest high end cards from Nvidia complete with Ray Tracing at under £500.

        From: AmazonWas: £267.05Now: £171.38  (£95.67 off) View Deal
      
It might not be especially new, but if you need a graphics card without breaking the bank then the RX 570 is a great choice. You can get almost £100 off.

        From: AmazonWas: £249.99Now: £230.49  (£19.50 off) View Deal
      
If you can't afford the high-end RTX cards, then perhaps the GTX 1660 with 6GB of GDDR5 memory will do the job.
Nvidia's RTX range of graphics cards is the obvious choice for a current gen card. However, if you can't afford one then there are still decent GTX GPUs on offer. Take a look at our review of the GTX 1080 and our best motherboard deals too.
Thanks to the influx of cryptocurrency mining and the increased production price of RAM along with Nvidia’s market dominance in this particular area, graphics cards have not been cheap over the past few years.
There are a couple of important factors to consider when purchasing a graphics card. First, you’ll need to think about what exactly you’re going to be using the card for. If you’re mainly playing World of Warcraft, League of Legends or Dota 2 then you’re not going to need a 1080 Ti to run those games on high settings at a decent frame rate.
On the other hand, if you’re determined to play the latest and greatest games at the very highest settings then you’ll want a more powerful card.
The resolution that you play your games at is very important when selecting a card. If you’re playing on a 1080p display then you’re not going to have much trouble getting solid performance, but if you’re using a 2k or 4k screen then you’ll need a faster card to cope with the demand from the monitor.
The same goes with the refresh rate on your monitor. If you’ve gone out of your way to purchase a 120Hz or 144Hz monitor then you’ll need a machine that can reach those frame rates on your desired graphics settings, so it’s worth it to keep that in mind.
Lastly, thinking about roughly how long you’ll be keeping your system is important too. You may think a 1080 Ti is more expensive but if it’s going to give you better performance and last longer in your rig before you replace it, in reality, it may be the better value purchase.
A graphics card is not exactly an inexpensive purchase, so make sure you’re getting the most bang for your buck with the offers below.

        Asus GeForce RTX 2080 OC EditionFrom: AmazonWas: £889.30Now: £640.98  (£248.32 off) View Deal
      

        Asus GeForce RTX 2060 OC EditionFrom: AmazonWas: £459.99Now: £381.52  (£78.47 off) View Deal
      

        MSI GeForce RTX 2070 Super VentusFrom: EbuyerWas: £519.96Now: £494.98  (£24.98 off) View Deal
      

        MSI Radeon RX 570From: AmazonWas: £267.05Now: £171.38  (£95.67 off) View Deal
      
MSI GeForce GTX 1660From: AmazonWas: £249.99Now: £230.49  (£19.50 off) View Deal< >
