
# Very launches a Nintendo Switch early Black Friday deal for under £300

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:54:17+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Hurrell**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/very-launches-nintendo-switch-early-17188895)

Online retailer Very has launched a massive early Black Friday deal on the Nintendo Switch.
Very always takes part in Black Friday sales and often reduced the price of the PS4, XBox and Nintendo Switch games consoles.
However, it has moved early to offer the first big discount on the popular Nintendo Switch console with a bundle offer that has impressed bargain-hunters. Shoppers on an extreme bargain-hunting Facebook group spotted the big discount and many have already snapped up the deal.
It is selling a Nintendo Switch grey console with Lego Move 2, Lego DC Super Villians and Lego Worlds for just £329.99 online, which is down from £369.99.
The £40 saving makes it one of the best Nintendo Switch bundle deals on the market today and the retailer is also offering ways to save an extra £50 with a discount code that can be found on the deal page, bringing the overall price down to £280.
You can get the deal here until 7 November.
 
The deal includes three games and is still cheaper than a Nintendo Switch with Mario Kart 8 at Currys PC World , which is currently £299, down from £319.99.
Amazon has the same bundle for £319.99 for Prime members, while
The Nintendo Switch is one of the world's best-selling consoles. It can be played hooked up to a TV or on the move and it features popular games such as the Mario franchise, Pokemon and Lego.
Last year hit game Fortnite was released on the system and device has been credited with helping turn around Nintendo's fortunes since it was released in 2017.
