
# Notable Cocktail Innovations Of 2019 Part I

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Liza B. Zimmerman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/lizazimmerman/2019/11/06/cocktail-innovations-of-2019-part-i/)

Tony Abou-Ganim, the Las Vegas-based Modern Mixologist has been behind the stick for decades. He created the amazing cocktail program at the Bellagio, when it opened in 1998 and previously worked at San Francisco bar stalwart Harry Denton’s Starlight Room.He has published a number of books, including Vodka Distilled. He is also involved in fund-raising activities for a number of charities, including the Helen David Relief Fund which supported his aunt in her battle with breast cancer. He learned to bartend early on in her establishment in Michigan when he was growing up.
Tony was recently in San Francisco doing a cocktail event for the Bently Heritage Estate Distillery.
All responses have been edited and condensed for clarity.

        Liza B. Zimmerman (LBZ): What trends are you seeing these days in cocktails?
      
Tony Abou-Ganim (TAG): A return to simplicity where less is more and the base spirit is featured and celebrated! Focusing on the details; spirits, glassware, ice, garnish and fresh ingredients! Also these cocktails feature local and seasonal ingredients.

        LBZ: Which spirits are most popular? Which ones are becoming more popular and why?
      
TAG: American whiskey is still growing in popularity with demand continuing on allocated brands. I also believe that Peruvian Pisco is a growing category that is primed to explode! Not only are there fantastic, established Pisco cocktails such as the Pisco Sour, Chilcano and Pisco Punch but the spirit lends itself to creative mixability!

        LBZ: Is molecular bartending still popular?
      
TAG: It depends on how you define “molecular bartending.” I think we are still seeing creativity behind the bar with bartenders continuing to press the envelope but I also feel that if the “sizzle” does not improve the steak—i.e. the cocktail experience—than we are just trying to out-geek other bars and bartenders and overlooking the guest’s experience.

        LBZ: What are the new tools and methods of building and creating drinks?
      
TAG: I am still seeing the use of tools to smoke cocktails, which not only add an aroma and flavor component but also a visual experience for the guest. I always avoid smoke for the sake of smoke but if it adds to the final cocktail I’m all for it!

        LBZ: What are the new garnishes?
      
TAG: Again, not sure if they’re new or I’m just seeing more use of them but I would include dehydrated fruits and edible flowers.
No doubt other interesting cocktail trends are around the corner.
