
# Emotional Alby Mathewson Shares Uncertainties Over Munster Future

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:16:04+00:00**

Author: **Marisa Kennedy**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/rugby/kennedymarisa760/emotional-mathewson-future/)


        An emotional Alby Mathewson admitted that he has “no plans in the pipeline” as he nervously awaits news on his future with Munster.
      
Mathewson originally joined the province in 2018 on a short-term contract as injury cover for Conor Murray. However, he signed further contract extensions that saw him remain with the province until the end of the World Cup.
That current contract runs out on November 28 and the likelihood of a further deal is doubtful considering the multiple options Munster have in the area with the likes of Neil Cronin, Craig Casey and Nick McCarthy all set to feature this season.
Mathewson was visibly upset as he admitted the struggles of life in Ireland but shared his hopes that he would remain.
“I enjoy it so obviously I’d like to stay. I started the campaign with the group but I understand the situation and it’s tricky. I knew that coming here. It was supposed to be a four-month contract and it turned out to be almost a year and a half.
“Whatever happens, happens, but I do really enjoy it here.
“I have moved around a fair bit. This has probably been the toughest though because I’m obviously without my family. I guess you never really get used to moving.
The New Zealand native admitted that he has no future career plans should Munster decide to let him go.
“If my contract finishes, I actually don’t have anything in the pipeline at the minute so when I know if it’s a ‘yes’ or a ‘no’, I can put things in place and look to work my future out.
“At the moment, I’m just trying to enjoy the moment. I’m really enjoying playing with the boys, it’s a different dynamic with the internationals away. We’re a really tight group and all the young guys have created a really good vibe amongst the boys.
Munster welcomed back their 12 internationals from World Cup duty this week in time for their first inter-provincial of the season on Saturday.
Both sides have lost just one of their opening PRO14 encounters and with Munster adopting an attacking style of play, Mathewson is expecting an exciting battle.
“We’re all enjoying the brand we’re playing. Ulster is an interpro game so these are games that you look forward to. We beat them last year in Thomond and then lost to them away so now it’s pretty even.
“They’re in good form as well, five wins from six like ourselves, we both lost to the Cheetahs away. Two teams playing well and it should be a good game.”
