
# Revolutionary War rifle stolen nearly 50 years ago back on display

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:50:58+00:00**

Author: **James Rogers**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/science/revolutionary-war-rifle-stolen-50-years-ago-on-display?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+foxnews%2Fscitech+%28Internal+-+SciTech+-+Mixed%29)

A Revolutionary War rifle that was stolen in 1971 and discovered at a barn sale almost 50 years later is now back on display after being reunited with its owner.
The rifle, which is owned by the Pennsylvania Society of Sons of the Revolution and its Color Guard, was on loan to the Valley Forge Historical Society when it was stolen from a display at Valley Forge Park in 1971.
The rifle was only recently recovered through the efforts of the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s Office of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, according to the Museum of the American Revolution in Philadelphia, which put the historic firearm on display Wednesday.

        
          STOLEN FLINTLOCK RIFLE THAT WAS USED AT BATTLE OF NEW ORLEANS RETURNED TO MUSEUM
        
      
Antique dealer Kelly Kinzle discovered the rifle at a Berks County barn sale in 2018, The Philadelphia Inquirer reported. He purchased the firearm and, realizing that he had a historic rifle on his hands, worked with his lawyers to establish its past and negotiate a handover to the FBI.
The American long rifle was made by Johann Christian Oerter, a master gunsmith in Lehigh Valley, Pa. It was made in 1775 and is engraved with Oerter’s name, the date and the location of his workshop – Christian’s Spring, near present-day Nazareth – on the top of the iron rifle barrel. The name “W.Goodwin,” likely the name of the original owner, is engraved on the rifle’s wooden stock.

        
          ORNATE COLONIAL ERA MUSKET PART DISCOVERED IN MICHIGAN
        
      
“Only a handful of signed and dated American rifles from the Revolutionary era have survived,” explained the Museum of the American Revolution in a statement. “Oerter’s work is recognized by arms scholars as among the finest and most important.”
