
# Antonio Banderas plays against type in Pain and Glory, as a fictionalised version of Pedro Almodóvar

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:25:41+00:00**

Author: **Luke Goodsell**

Original: [ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-11-06/pain-and-glory-review-antonio-banderas-pedro-almodovar/11672694)

Few filmmakers have entwined a love for cinema with their own work quite like Pedro Almodóvar, who has returned time and again to the artform as a storytelling device over his 40-year career.
The on-screen lives of directors, writers, and actresses have frequently served as avatars for his own preoccupations, comprising a kind of kaleidoscopic autofiction.
Even by those standards, the now 70-year-old Spanish auteur has rarely made something as deeply reflective, and personal, as his 21st and latest feature, Pain and Glory, in which an ageing film director takes tender stock of his life and career.
"It's not exactly an autobiography," Almodóvar has said, "but I am reflected in a more intimate way in this movie."
Pain and Glory also marks the eighth, and most touching, collaboration between the filmmaker and his long-time star Antonio Banderas, whose careers have danced together to the point where their craft has all but merged.
If the actor casting a silhouette of the director's famous pompadour in the film's key art wasn't telling enough, then his tousled, sky-high grey hair, primary coloured wardrobe, and on-screen replica of Almodóvar's apartment complete the synthesis.
As the vaguely fictitious film director Salvador Mallo, Banderas has never been as warmly introspective, or as still — in the very first frames, he is suspended underwater in a pool that may as well be a womb, eyes closed in reverie as the camera tracks a surgery scar along his spine.
It's a wondrous image Almodóvar strikes, and especially moving given Banderas' erstwhile penchant for manic, obsessive characters that often served as impish livewires in the director's filmography.
Pain and Glory is a work of great assessment, a clear-eyed reckoning with mortality, but it's also light on its feet and inflected with the dreamy delirium of reflection — where faraway, half-forgotten sounds and images from childhood come flooding back with the crystalline clarity of age and perspective.
Refracted through Almodóvar's prism, these recollections take shape less in hard fact than through reconstructed essence — the imagination forming emotional closure in ways that reality could never satisfy.
Early moments cataloguing Salvador's many physical ailments — a litany of aches and pains that Almodóvar renders in cheeky, colourfully exhaustive animation — are thus set against his blossoming memories of early childhood, in which his mother, Jacinta (Penélope Cruz) leads the young boy through a vagabond life in 1960s Spain.
These passages, powered by Almodóvar's signature sense for the maternal, shimmer effortlessly with the imagery of youth — both his own and the collective — from impressionistic scenes of his mother singing a cappella with other Spanish women (including pop star Rosalia) as they ring out washing on a grassy riverbank, to Salvador collecting movie star trading cards, and the first blush of sexual awakening as his gaze fixates upon a lusty young handyman (Cesar Vicente).
Such flashbacks weave in and out of the present, where Salvador prepares for a retrospective screening of his newly restored, 32-year-old film Sabor, and reconnects with its star, Alberto Crespo (Asier Etxeandia), an aging rock 'n' roll thespian still clinging to torn denim, greasy locks and Depp-ian jewellery.
Together Salvador and Alberto get high, zone out to the tandem swimming of Lucretia Martel's The Holy Girl — returning to the aquatic motif — and let the past fall away, as their old animosities sink and the sparks of creative collaboration rekindle.
The reconciliation leads Alberto to stage a theatrical performance of Salvador's diaries. It's one of the film's most affecting sequences, as Salvador — and Almodóvar — recalls his formative moments with the cinema, while images of Natalie Wood in Splendor in the Grass and Marilyn Monroe in Niagara radiate in the background.
It also allows the film to recall the heady days of Salvador's hedonistic, early-80s youth — the liberated, post-Franco period of sexual freedom, punk and drug experimentation through which Almodóvar emerged — and resurface one of his long-vanished loves, Federico (Leonardo Sbaraglia), who returns to close the circle of their affair.
Banderas and Sbaraglia's poignant, bittersweet kiss is as charged by a lifetime of weight as the former's scenes in Almodvar's Labyrinth of Passion — his movie debut, all those years and lifetimes ago — were heated by the electricity of youth.
The actor's inward trajectory is fascinating to watch, not least because Banderas's characters in Almodóvar's earlier work often wore their intent so obnoxiously.
The possessive, physically volatile forces that unsettled the likes of Law of Desire, Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down! and The Skin I Live In are but ghosts here, replaced by humbling grace notes — Salvador placing a pillow on the floor to kneel, or hobbling into a car — that comprise a moving study in masculinity softened by time, a life distilled to the things that matter.
If there's one thing Almodóvar has perfected in his quieter, later-career formalism — in films like Volver, Broken Embraces, and even the modest, undervalued Julieta — it's the seamless elegance with which his narrative slides between time and memory.
Structurally, the director has likened Pain and Glory to the flow of water, allowing the film to move gracefully between modes of artifice and "reality".
This approach elevates a familiar-feeling final act — in which Salvador cares for his elderly mother (another acting troupe veteran, Julieta Serrano) — and guides the story toward an ending that will leave few Almodóvar devotees with a dry eye.
If Almodóvar's relatively restrained style feels a world removed from his imperial phase of twisted melodrama and genre-bending perversion — he can sometimes seem close to playing to the arthouse choir — then Pain and Glory's world weariness approaches its own kind of canonical subversiveness, a tasteful 'late' work that acts as a gateway to exploring the riches that inform it.
And the film is both self-referentially playful — it's hard to watch Banderas reclining in a maroon mock-turtleneck and not think of Tie Me Up's similar-attired deviant — and ultimately joyful, the kind of work that savours the lively, blood-red glimmer of an X-ray machine beam, even as it cleaves its star in two.
Pain and Glory considers both elements of its title, and though the former weighs heavy, it's the warmth that lingers — in the small moments that resonate in life's absurd slipstream; in knowing that in art's pop fiction there is so often a greater truth.

        Pain and Glory is in cinemas from November 7.
      
