
# Call to decriminalise all drugs for personal use as deaths hit an all-time high

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:33:55+00:00**

Author: **David Campbell**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/call-decriminalise-drugs-personal-use-20809217)

All drugs for personal use should be decriminalised in Scotland, a major new report has recommended.
The proposals come after a record number of drug deaths in Scotland last year – including 50 in Renfrewshire.

        
          
            PAISLEY DAILY EXPRESS: Live news as it happens
          
        
      
A cross-party committee of MPs today released the Problem Drug Use in Scotland paper, which suggests a new approach to drug policy, including decriminalisation and the introduction of safe consumption spaces.
Renfrewshire was rocked in 2018 by its highest number of drug-related deaths in more than a decade last year, with 50 people losing their lives.
Scotland reached an all-time high of 1,187 deaths last year, prompting a major review by the Scottish Affairs Committee of the country’s approach to tackling the problem.
The death of 50 people in Renfrewshire – a rise from 38 in 2017 – was described as a “waste of life” and a “tragedy” by councillors.

        Read More News:
      
The number of drug-related deaths in the local authority was as low as 13 in 2013.
However, the total rose to 30 in 2014 and, while it dropped to 19 in 2015, the figure spiked again to 42 in 2016.
In 2018, 36 drug deaths in Renfrewshire were men and 14 were women.
Drugs commonly found in the systems of those who had died included heroin, other opioids and etizolam.
The chair of the committee, Pete Wishart MP, said “Throughout our inquiry, we heard tragic accounts of the pain and suffering that problem drug use is causing in Scotland.

        Read More News:
      
“If this number of people were being killed by any other illness, the government would declare it as a public health issue and act accordingly.
“The evidence is clear – the criminal justice approach does not work.
“Decriminalisation is a pragmatic solution to problem drug use; reducing stigma around drug use and addiction, and encouraging people to seek treatment.
“We’re not the only ones calling for this change.

        Read More News:
      
“The Health and Social Care have also said the government should consider decriminalisation.
“It reflects the weight of evidence in support of this approach, and I hope the next government takes this recommendation seriously.”
The report also criticised the Scottish Government’s decision to cut funding for Alcohol and Drug Partnerships in 2016/17 and called for a public health approach to drug policy going forward.
