
# Ayo: UP a different team right now

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:01:43+00:00**

Author: **Theodore P. Jurado**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/sports/basketball/ayo-different-team-right-now)

The Fighting Maroons may have lost twice to the Growling Tigers this season, but coach Aldin Ayo is aware that their foes are a different team right now.
"And yung mga nangyari dun sa elimination, it won’t matter anymore because they’re a different team and this is the Final Four. Lahat gagawin dito. Kung ano man dapat nilang gawin of course they’re going to do that," said Ayo.
The last time UP and UST faced off in the Final Four was way back in 1996. The Maroons, who were powered by Brian Gahol and Paolo Mendoza, bowed to the Estong Ballesteros-led Tigers, who eventually completed a four-peat.
With a twice-to-beat advantage, UP needs to beat UST at 4 p.m. on Sunday at the Smart Araneta Coliseum to arrange a Finals rematch with three-peat seeking Ateneo.
The Tigers, on the other hand, hope to hurdle the Maroons to send their step-ladder duel to an deciding game on Wednesday at the Mall of Asia Arena.
Ayo, who first rose to fame in 2015 when he steered Letran to a improbable NCAA men's basketball championship at the expense of powerhouse San Beda, is cautious on UST's chances to go deeper.
"We’re going to take it one game at a time. Talagang isa lang yan eh. Hindi mo dapat iisipin yung pangalawa, hindi mo dapat iisipin yung susunod, kung ano nasa harapan mo yun yung dapat isipin mo eh," said Ayo.
"So right now, ginawa namin, for the past 10 days, we kept our focus on FEU. Right now,  we don’t have any idea kung ano gagawin namin sa UP. But after this, after our dinner (Wednesday night), we’re going to start  preparing for UP," he added.
The Maroons have won nine elimination round games, all in single digits, but lost to the Tigers with an average margin of 11 points this season.
