
# Decision to continue playing completely up to Ryan ten Doeschate, reveals Pieter Seelar

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:16:25+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/decision-to-continue-playing-completely-up-to-ryan-ten-doeschate-reveals-pieter-seelar?utm_medium=rss)


        Netherlands captain Pieter Seelar has revealed that Ryan ten Doeschate told him that he would love to play another World Cup, but feels that the decision is completely up to the veteran. Ten Doeschate averaged a whopping 46.60 in the qualifiers to help the Dutch qualify for the showdown Down Under.
      
Eight years after making heads turn with his incredible ton against England in the 2011 World Cup, Netherlands' veteran all-rounder Ryan ten Doeschate is still fit and running, scoring runs at will. Ten Doeschate, now 39, amassed a staggering 233 runs at an average of 46.60 in the recently concluded ICC WT20 Qualifiers to help his country win the tournament and qualify for the showdown Down Under in 2020. 
Dutch skipper Pieter Seelar has now revealed that ten Doeschate told him that he'd like to play another World Cup, but asserted that the decision will completely be the 39-year-old's to take. Despite 'Tendo' nearing 40, he has continued to remain one of the fittest players in the game and Seelar lavished praise on the veteran for the same.
"I'm not sure what his decision is going to be, it's entirely up to him. He's got a contract extension at Essex, which will keep him busy, but he's told me he'd like to play another World Cup," Seelar told ESPNCricinfo.
"We have to see when we get there, but it will be helpful to have his experience and quality, which we don't get very often. There are no concerns (regarding his fitness), Ryan is one of the fittest blokes around in the change room," Seelar added.
Having made his international debut way back in 2016 and having featured in multiple World Cups in the past, ten Doeschate brings a lot of experience to the table and Seelar feels that it will be invaluable to the Dutch team, who will be looking to put on a good showing in next year's mega event. 
"He's the sort of guy who can win you games at No. 5 from any sort of position. For me, he'll be quality to have in Australia. Having a guy like him helps not just on the field, but off it as well. There's a lot of knowledge you can turn to, take a lot of information from when he's out on the field.
"Having him out in a tough chase eases the nerves down a little because he's such a quality player. He's done it in tournaments around the world, so his quality and experience are invaluable not just for me but the whole team."He's done it in tournaments around the world, so his quality and experience are invaluable not just for me but the whole team."
Seelar also lauded his bowlers and singled out Roelof van der Merwe, who took 14 wickets in the tournament, for his lion-hearted effort. The skipper praised the former South African international for his ability to constantly pull off 'something special'.
"The fast bowlers as a whole have been good, but I have to single out Roelof van der Merwe. Be it with the bat, ball or on the field, he always does something special."
Netherlands have been drawn alongside Namibia, Scotland and Bangladesh in the group stages of the World T20 in 2020. 
