
# Paul Scholes' damning Ed Woodward assessment as he pleads for help at Man Utd

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:13:58+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/paul-scholes-ed-woodward-help-20836040)

Manchester United legend Paul Scholes insists Ed Woodward is not a "football man" - and pleaded for former team-mate Ole Gunnar Solskjaer to be given help at Old Trafford.
Solskjaer's side have experienced a miserable start to the season with his rebuild off to a stuttering start.
They have been linked with a number of January signings but the Norwegian boss this week played down hopes of major additions by declaring: "It's always the summer... you can’t really do too many big deals in January."
Scholes expressed doubts that United have the right men behind the scenes to bring in the talent Solskjaer needs to restore them to former glories as he urged executive vice-chairman Woodward to bring in help behind the scenes amid reports they are looking for a sporting director.
Speaking on BT Sport ahead of United's clash with Partizan Belgrade, Scholes said: "We know behind the scenes there is help needed, especially on the football side.
"You look at the business side and it's great, Ed Woodward is very good at that. But as a football man? I don't think he's a football man.
"In the past had Sir Alex and David Gill. David Gill was brilliant, absolutely brilliant, and he's been a massive miss for football club. He knew football players inside out.
"He knew a good player when he saw one and he disagreed with the manager, of course he did.
"Now is the time where there needs to be a bit of help for Ole. Don't get me wrong, there's some good people around - the chief scout, Mike Phelan, great experience.
"But now is the time when he really needs some help to really bring some top players to this club."
Another former United star, Owen Hargreaves, agreed with Scholes and told United recruitment is vital to close the gap on runaway Premier League top two Manchester City and Liverpool.
Hargreaves added: "I completely agree with Scholesy.
"It's going to take time to build it back up, but they need to start.
"Recruitment is the one place they need to get right. City and Liverpool got it right, and that's why they are where they are."
