
# I am no ‘Ninja Cop’—Col. Remus Medina (2)

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:05:53+00:00**

Author: **Paul M. Gutierrez**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/editorial/opinion/i-am-no-ninja-cop-col-remus-medina-2)

As mentioned in my column last Friday, Medina averred he took the “risk” of being photographed and ‘videoed’ with notorious bank robber and drug trafficker, Herbert Colangco, during the latter’s birthday party inside Muntinlupa in 2013 because of Muklos, whose main target was Pasig Shabu Tiangge operator, Amin Boratong.
Back then, the Boratong Drug Syndicate was among the biggest illegal drug groups operating in Eastern Metro Manila.
I supposed Medina forwarded to me copies of these documents—warrants of arrests, post operation reports, cases filed, etc., to prove that Muklos was indeed an active anti-criminality plan approved by then EPD director, C/Supt. Miguel de Mayor Laurel and designed to “bring down,” so to speak, the entire Boratong Drug Syndicate.
From the documents, I am quite convinced that this “follow-up operations” gained positive result dear readers, specifically with the arrest of the other syndicate personalities, namely: Aleman “Boy Negro” Bantuas Boratong, Acsaimen “Mac-mac” Boratong Amer and Joey “Jeremiah” Mamon.
Their “territory,” the Mapayapa Compound (Pasig’ Shabu Tiangge), was raided by the EPD on March 10, 2013 and assorted firearms and explosives were recovered by the police. There was however, no mention of any illegal drugs seized from the documents that I read.
Nevertheless, because of this “success,” Gen. Laurel as well as 11 of his men to include Medina, were awarded the PNP’s ‘Medalya ng Kagalingan’ (PNP Medal of Merit) on April 13, 2013 for the above operation.
As the citation reads, the awardees displayed “exemplary performance and dedication to duty… thus earning distinct honor and credit not only for themselves and the National Capital Region Police Office but for the entire Philippine National Police as well.”
That Medina is a bemedaled police officer, cannot also be disputed dear readers. But since he declined to leave a copy of his PDS (Personal Data Sheet) with me, I cannot list here some of his more significant awards.
Suffice it to say that his works and accomplishments seemed to have earned the approbations of his bosses including Gen. Marcelo Garbo and of course, his current boss, NCRPO acting director, P/BGen. Debold Sinas. Both of them, I noticed, were both “generous” in giving Medina citations and recognitions.
Still, his being linked to illegal drugs has cast a long shadow in his career; before he joined Gen. Sinas here at the NCRPO, Medina also showed a “clearance” given to him by the PRO-7 adjudication board only last September, in relation to his suspected links to illegal drugs. The head of PRO-7 until just three weeks ago is of course, Gen. Sinas.
Nevertheless, Medina also showed his “clearance” from the various units of the PNP where he got assigned and also, from the PNP’s Intelligence Group.
Before we parted ways last Tuesday, October 29, Medina expressed his confidence that Camp Crame itself (read: PNP OIC Archie Gamboa) would also clear him with finality over his suspected links to illegal drugs.
In short, if Gamboa indeed sustained the decision of the PRO-7 adjudication board, there would finally be a “closure” over this issue insofar as Medina is concerned. He can start “moving on,” so to speak, without any “personal baggage.”
Abangan!
***
Malakas na “Aray!” ang tinuran ni DA secretary William Dar, hinggil sa problema natin ngayon sa ‘African Swine Flu’ (ASF) na nagbabantang “magpabagsak” sa ating ‘local hog industry.’
Aniya kasi, “smuggling” ang dahilan kaya “nakapasok” sa bansa ang mga “kontaminadong karne” mula sa China.
Translation? Ang dapat “sisihin” sa sitwasyon ngayon ay ang Bureau of Customs, kaya, aray ko po naman, hehehe, ayy, huhuhu!
‘But to be fair,’ wika nga, bagaman ang BoC ang ‘first line of defense’ ng bansa sa pagpasok ng mga kontrabando at mga kontaminadong produkto, hindi naman ang Aduana ang nagbibigay ng ‘import permit’ at “SPS” (sanitary and phyto sanitary) permit/clearance sa mga importer. Responsibilidad ito, mga kabayan, ng DA, oke?
Sa panig ng BoC, hindi nito puwedeng harangin ang isang kargamento kung “maayos” naman ang mga papeles, partikular na nga kung kumpleto naman ang mga permit ng importer mula sa DA o iba pang ahensiya ng gobyerno.
Ito ang ‘ideal situation’ mga kabayan.
Dahil ang kantyaw ng mga miron, “kung hindi” raw sana inaatupag ng mga nasa Aduana ang kanilang ‘pangha-harass’ sa kanilang mga kalaban sa negosyo at pagbibigay proteksyon sa mga “binasbasan” at mga “pinagpala” d’yan sa pantalan, hindi magiging malubha ang problema natin ngayon sa ASF.
Mainam siguro na “pagboboldyakin” ni Customs Commissioner Jagger Guerrero at DCI Raniel Ramiro ang kanilang mga operatiba?
Dapat kasi magtrabaho ng tama, wasto at walang kinikilingan ang mga operatiba d’yan hindi yung pulos pamemerwisyo at sariling bulsa lang ang kanilang pinagkakaabalahan, hehehe!
Sa ngayon, ASF contaminated meat pa lang ang nagpapasakit sa ulo ni PDU30 at nagdadala ng malaking kahihiyan kay Comm. Jagger. Sa tinuran kasi ni Sec. Dar, malinaw na ‘failure of intelligence’ yan, aguy, aguy, aguy!
Harinawang hindi dumating ang araw na iligal na droga na naman ang nakakalusot d’yan sa BoC dahil lang sa kabulastugan ng ilan dyan sa Customs Investment and Incentives Service o “CIIS.”
Kung mangyari kasi yan, naniniwala tayong “walang sasantuhin” sa inyo si PDU30 at ang Senado.
Abangan!
