
# Former England rugby captain Dylan Hartley announces retirement aged 33

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:59:03+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/breaking-former-england-rugby-captain-20831761?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

Dylan Hartley has called time on his rugby career aged 33.
The former England captain has been forced into the decision after being unable to recover from a troublesome knee injury.
Hartley missed the entire calendar year's action with his club, the Northampton Saints, and also missed out on a place in the Rugby World Cup squad as a result.
The second-rower is England's second most capped player of all-time, having pulled on the Red Rose jersey 97 times - captaining the nation on 30 occasions, including a Grand Slam-winning campaign.
“I am extremely proud of my journey, both with Saints and representing England, but now is the right time to hang up my playing boots,” said Hartley.
“The last few months have been difficult for me both mentally and physically as I’ve come to terms with the fact that I am no longer able to compete, but I have to thank all the staff at Saints who have all invested so much time in helping me with my rehabilitation, in particular strength and conditioning coach Eamonn Hyland.
“I have loved my journey in rugby. I came to England as a teenager hoping to get a few games of rugby and to see the world. I could have never predicted that one day I’d play 14 years for such a special club and go on to represent and captain England."
He continued: “My career wasn’t perfect, but I wouldn’t have had it any other way. I’m privileged to have experienced some amazing highs while there have also been some personal lows, all of which are powerful experiences that will stay with me forever.
"The final chapter of my career was supposed to go a different way, but that is the nature of professional sport."
England head coach Eddie Jones has paid tribute to Hartley, who he handed captaincy to in 2016.
“Dylan has had a significant international career playing for his country having played 97 Tests, and was a tough, enduring character for us,” he said.
“He was a foundation captain and we owe him a lot for his contribution to the making of this team. We will be forever indebted to him for his dedication and commitment to the team and his love of English rugby.”
