
# Ralls hat-trick settles thriller for Cardiff, Martin replaces Tisdale at MK Dons

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:05:42+00:00**

Author: **Will Unwin**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/02/football-league-cardiff-birmingham-huddersfield-blackpool-peterborough)

Six goals were scored and two red cards shown as Cardiff City got the better of Birmingham. Joe Ralls hit a hat-trick, including two penalties, for a Cardiff side who had Danny Ward dismissed nine minutes into the second half. Ralls levelled from 12 yards to cancel out Kristian Pedersen’s opener, and Curtis Nelson completed the turnaround before Danny Ward saw red for a lunge. Despite being a man light Ralls added another but it looked like they would have to hang on when Ivan Subjic set up an exciting finish, only for another penalty to be converted by the hosts after Harlee Dean was dismissed.
Huddersfield made it seven matches unbeaten under new manager Danny Cowley as they despatched Brentford at Griffin Park. The points were secured just after the hour mark when Karlan Grant fired a low shot into the corner for his ninth of the season following good work by ex-Manchester United players Fraizer Campbell and Danny Simpson.
Sitting second in the table are Swansea City who needed an injury-time winner from substitute Sam Surridge at Wigan. Nathan Dyer opened the scoring for the visitors before Kieffer Moore netted from the spot, his first Latics goals since joining in the summer. With things heading for a draw, Bournemouth loanee Surridge converted a Connor Roberts cross. The Welsh side sit one place below Leeds who beat QPR.
There was an upset at Craven Cottage where Hull were far too good for Fulham, downing the Londoners with three unanswered goals. First, Josh Bowler calmly collected a Nathan Elder cross before finding the back of the net, Jarrod Bowen then twisted and turned in the box until he found enough space to double the lead, and a save by Marcus Bettinelli denied him a second – but the rebound went in off Tom Eaves.
All the action at Ewood Park happened in the final 10 minutes where Jacob Murphy put Sheffield Wednesday ahead, only to witness his side concede twice, as Tosin Adarabioyo and John Buckley won it for Blackburn. Nottingham Forest moved up to fifth in the table as Lewis Grabban and Sammy Ameobi put them ahead, a lead they held on to despite Callum McManaman’s late consolation for Luton. Tom Lawrence struck twice as Derby saw off Middlesbrough, who sit in the relegation zone, while Reading got the better of Millwall.
Bloomfield Road hosted a seven-goal thriller as Blackpool edged past Peterborough. After swapping strikes the game was settled when Dan Butler turned a cross into his own net. Wycombe took advantage of Ipswich having the weekend off as Rolando Aarons flicked home a free-kick to open his account against Shrewsbury.
Bolton have the zero points mark in sight after veteran strikers Chris O’Grady and Daryl Murphy ensured they picked up their first home win of the season against promotion-chasing Fleetwood, with Josh Morris securing a consolation. Their former manager Phil Parkinson witnessed his Sunderland side defeat Southend by a single Luke O’Nien goal.
A Rushian Hepburn-Murphy hat-trick ensured MK Dons’ poor run of form continued against Tranmere. The youngster on loan from Aston Villa ran amok against a team who can now boast just one point in their last nine games, whose misery was compounded when Kieran Agard saw red on the stroke of half-time.
Following the loss, Paul Tisdale was relieved of his duties by MK Dons. He will be replaced by Russell Martin, with the 33-year-old defender confirmed as the club’s new manager on Sunday. The former Scottish international will become the Football League’s youngest manager.
There was a double blow for Crewe who lost their place at the top of the table after losing a local derby against Port Vale, as Jake Taylor made the difference with a goal from close range. Forest Green, Bradford and Swindon all moved above the Railwaymen thanks to wins.
At the bottom, managerless Morecambe picked up just their third win of the season as Ajay Leitch-Smith’s strike was enough to defeat Leyton Orient. The Shrimps still sit at the foot of the table after Stevenage played out a goalless draw at Scunthorpe.
