
# Playboy heir Cooper Hefner marries Harry Potter star in low-key courthouse wedding

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:38:05+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/playboy-heir-cooper-hefner-marries-20811863)

Hugh Hefner's son has married an actress best known for her role in the Harry Potter series.
Cooper Hefner, who is an heir to his dad's Playboy fortune, tied the knot with Scarlett Byrne this week in a very low-key ceremony.
The happy couple, who have been engaged for four years, had their wedding at the Ventura County courthouse in the coastal city of Oxnard, California.
Scarlett, who played Pansy Parkinson in the film series, posted a picture from their wedding day on Instagram .
She dressed in a white corset-style peplum top with a matching mid-length skirt, while leaving her hair sleek and loose around her shoulders.
Cooper, 28, looked smart in a navy blue suit and white shirt, which he wore without a tie.
Scarlett, 29, captioned the photo: "Cooper and I are excited to share that we legally married.
"We are looking forward to planning our wedding in the coming months where we will celebrate further with our friends and family."
Scarlett then wrote directly to her husband, saying: "I love you Cooper. I am proud to stand by your side, as your partner, your friend, and your wife.
"I cannot wait to continue building a life together. My heart is so full and I am so grateful for our love."
Cooper shared the same photo to his own account, captioning it: "Scarlett and I have made it officially legal and the two of us could not be happier.
"Cheers to a life full of love, happiness, adventure, and great purpose, Mrs. Hefner.
"I love you dearly and very much look forward to planning our wedding celebrations in the months ahead. I love you, Scarlett."
Cooper began working at Playboy while he was still in college and became chief creative officer.
He now runs media brand The Hefner Media Corporation and runs content platform HefPost.
