
# One In Five Eighth Graders Would Struggle To Use PowerPoint

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nick Morrison**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/nickmorrison/2019/11/05/one-in-five-teenagers-would-struggle-to-create-a-powerpoint/)

Almost one in five eighth graders do not have a functional working knowledge of computers and would struggle to perform simple tasks such as creating a PowerPoint presentation or using a spreadsheet on their own.
And just one in 50 are able to critically assess the quality of information they find online, according to a major new international study.
The findings firmly bust the myth that today’s teenagers are digital natives, the idea that those born into a digital world have a natural affinity with technology and are more information savvy than their predecessors.
The International Computer and Information Literacy Study assessed the digital skills of around 46,000 8th grade students (aged 13 and 14) in 14 countries, looking at how well-prepared they were for life in an increasingly digital world.
The students were ranked on a Computer and Information Literacy (CIL) scale, from having a functional working knowledge of computers at level 1 to having an understanding of computation and being able to solve complex coding problems at level 4.
But almost one in five students - 18% - were working below level 1, meaning ‘they did not have a functional working knowledge of computers as tools’, and would be unlikely to create digital information products, such as PowerPoint presentations and videos, or use spreadsheets or graphics software, without support and guidance, according to the study.
Students taking the assessment were set tasks ranging from identifying the risk of remembering passwords on a shared computer to creating a profile page for a new band. To reach level 1, students had to score 407 points in the assessments, while level 4 required a score of 661 or above.
Around 80% of students reached levels 1 to 3, while just 2% reached level 4, showing they could create informative displays and exercise evaluative judgement on material they found online.
There is also a digital divide along socioeconomic lines, according to the study, carried out by the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IEA), a co-operative of national research institutions and government agencies, in association with the Australian Council for Educational Research (ACER).
Students from higher socioeconomic backgrounds, measured by parental occupation and education and the number of books in the home, had significantly higher CIL scores than those from more disadvantaged backgrounds, according to Dr Dirk Hastedt, IEA executive director.
Students whose parents had a bachelor’s degree or higher scored an average of 31 more points in the tests than those whose parents did not have a degree, he said.
Girls outperformed boys on the study by an average of 17 points, although boys had a slight - four point - advantage on the computational thinking element of the assessments, which looked at their ability to describe and solve coding problems.
The study also revealed a greater disparity within the countries taking part in the tests than between them, with within-country differences tending to be larger in countries with lower average achievement.
The findings demonstrate providing students with ICT equipment will not by itself result in them developing sophisticated digital skills, and students need to be taught how to use computers effectively, Dr Hastedt added.
‘It is essential that young people are taught these skills at schools, and that their teachers are well-supported in delivering this bedrock of modern education,’ he said.
Countries taking part in the study were Chile, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Kazakhstan, South Korea, Luxembourg, Portugal, Uruguay and the United States, with Moscow and the German state of North Rhine Westphalia used to benchmark the results.
