
# Lebanon to See Two Protests Sunday: One Supporting Aoun, Second Against Sectarian Regime

Published at: **2019-11-03T07:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Asharq AL-awsat](https://aawsat.com/english/home/article/1973911/lebanon-see-two-protests-sunday-one-supporting-aoun-second-against-sectarian)

Lebanon’s street would be divided on Sunday in the presence of two planned demonstrations, one supporting President Michel Aoun and his reformist plan launched last Thursday while an opposite protest is planned in the streets of downtown Beirut and Tripoli under the slogan “Sunday of Pressure” with an aim to continue the popular movement that aims to overthrow the sectarian regime. On Saturday evening, Aoun’s supporters began gathering in Baabda, near the presidential palace to prepare for today’s movement towards Beirut. “Let us be many to draw our strength from relentless Aoun,” said Minister of the Displaced Ghassan Atallah, who is affiliated with the Free Patriotic Movement. On the opposite side, people would gather in the squares of downtown Beirut and Tripoli Sunday afternoon with an aim to complete the popular movements that started on Oct. 17 and to push for a government of technocrats. The two opposite streets would amass their supporters in the absence of any agreement on the name of the next prime minister. Last Tuesday, Prime Minister Saad Hariri resigned, succumbing to the demands of popular protesters.Until Saturday, Aoun has failed to set a date for binding parliamentary consultations to name a new premier tasked to form the new cabinet. A statement issued Saturday by the Lebanese Presidency Press Office said the date of consultations regarding the new cabinet formation will be determined soon.“President Michel Aoun, since the resignation of Prime Minister Saad Hariri, has been conducting the necessary contacts that precede the date of binding parliamentary consultations," it said.It indicated that these contacts are necessary, as the current situation in the country requires a calm handling of the government issue leading to the resolution of some obstacles, so that the commissioning of a new Prime Minister, and later the cabinet formation, would occur smoothly.
