
# From Conceding 13 Goals In 8 Matches, Story Of Pirates…  

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/the-story-of-orlando-pirates-and-resurgence/666549)

From conceding a whopping 13 goals in eight matches earlier in the season, Orlando Pirates have showed signs of improvement in their defence in recent matches, and the reason for the team’s resurgence has been given. 
The Buccaneers go to Durban’s Moses Mabhida Stadium to face Kaizer Chiefs in Telkom Knockout this afternoon oozing with confidence after winning their match against Highlands Park on Tuesday. 

        Read: 
        
          In Hot Water, Makola Charged 
        
      
Furthermore, Rhulani Mokwena’s side has conceded only one goal in last three matches – a sign of improvement, as seen by many.
According to goalkeeper Wayne Sandilands, the players took it upon themselves to discuss the issue and came up with solution to keeping things tighter at the back.  

        Read: Pirates Keeper’s Dissimilar Soweto Derby Perspective… 
      
Earlier in the season, Bucs had conceded 12 times in the league after seven matches as they battled out of the top eight, and another goal came in during the MTN8 as they were knocked out of the competition in first round.
“The coach (Rhulani Mokwena) alluded to the fact that as our game model, as our team structure, we defend as a collective. So we’ve sat down as a group of players and we’ve discussed where our shortfalls are defensively as a collective not as any individuals and not as any departments but as a whole team – what we can do better. So I think going forward…you can see, you know, maybe we are sort of defending a little bit more solidly and that’s just due to the whole collective outlook of the team and everybody being on the same page,” Sandilands told the Siya crew, about the improvement.  
