
# Stadia app hits the Play Store two weeks before launch

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:05:05+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/stadia-app-hits-play-store-two-weeks-launch?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
On November 19, Google will launch its cloud-based gaming service Stadia, but starting today you can go ahead and grab the Stadia app from the Google Play Store. Unfortunately, there's not much you can do with the app right now, even if you've pre-ordered the Stadia Founders or Premiere Edition.
The app first greets you with a screen promoting Destiny 2, which is likely to be the first game every Stadia owner will play given that it is included with the Founders and Premiere Edition bundles.

        Source: Android Central
      
Once you press the "Get started" button, you're then presented with a clever loading screen that says "Waking up the GPUs." Next, the app asks you to confirm your Google account and warns that this cannot be changed later, and finally, you reach a screen asking for your invite code. Since no invite codes have officially gone out at this time, that makes this the end of your tour.
As I said, there isn't much you can do at this point with the app, but once Stadia officially launches, this will be your hub to manage your games, Stadia account, and controllers. At least if you've already pre-ordered, you can grab the app now and be ready for launch day.
However, if you're an iOS user, you'll have to wait because the Stadia app isn't currently live on Apple's App Store. Considering Stadia won't even launch for nearly two weeks, that still leaves Google plenty of time to push it out for iOS users though. Also, if you're a Chromebook user, the guys over at 9to5Google have confirmed that Google has blocked installing the Stadia Android app on Chromebooks. 
Game anywhere, any time
Stadia is Google's cloud-based gaming service that promises you'll be able to game where you want when you want. The Stadia Premiere Edition comes with everything you need to get started, including the Stadia controller, Chromecast Ultra, and a three month subscription to Stadia Pro.

        Save $$$$ Pixel 4 ad shows it will be $200 off for Black Friday from the Google Store An ad was recently spotted online by a Redditor, revealing the Pixel 4 and 4 XL will receive a $200 discount that runs through December 2 for Cyber Monday.
      

        Affordable wireless T-Mobile Connect includes unlimited talk, text, and 5G access for $15/month During the first Un-Carrier event for the New T-Mobile, the company announced a $15/month “T-Mobile Connect” plan that includes unlimited talk, text, 5G access, and a high-speed data allotment that gets bigger each year.
      

        5G for all T-Mobile’s 5G network is launching on December 6 for 200 million people The “new T-Mobile” is launching its 5G network on December 6, and when it does, 200 million people will have access to the network from Day One.
      

        Who needs a wallet? Keep your wallet put away and pay with your Wear OS watch Ready to start paying for your coffee with just your watch? Here are all the Wear OS devices that support Google Pay!
      
