
# Overwatch 2: Everything we know about the unconventional sequel

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:07:39+00:00**

Author: **Morgan Park**

Original: [PC Gamer](https://www.pcgamer.com/overwatch-2-release-date-trailer-everything-we-know/)

Overwatch 2 is real. After a year of convincing leaks and reports, we've finally gotten a look at Overwatch's sequel. It's got new maps, heroes, and most interestingly, a story mode, expanding on the narrative foundation Blizzard's been building with its character cinematics.
From what we've seen so far, Overwatch 2 is not your average sequel. Its most unusual feature is that some new features, like new heroes and multiplayer modes, will also come to Overwatch 1 at no additional charge. The two games will continue to coexist as one big PvP experience, while Overwatch 2's other new additions are exclusive to the sequel.
We've dug through all the details Blizzard's dished out so far to figure out how that's going to work. Here's everything we know about Overwatch 2 after its announcement at BlizzCon 2019.
Blizzard is keeping this one a mystery for now, but considering Overwatch 2 is playable at BlizzCon 2019, I don't think we'll have to wait too long.
Well, it's a sequel to Overwatch, but not in the way that we usually think about sequels. By the sound of it, Overwatch 2 is more like a big expansion that focuses primarily on PvE missions. These missions appear to build off the Overwatch Archive seasonal events from the past few years. The new story missions will likely have more story, dialogue, and cutscenes than the highly repeatable limited-time events. We go over those in greater detail below.
