
# Airdrieonians 3-1 Dumbarton - Duffy left furious with horrendous errors

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:17:54+00:00**

Author: **Fraser Clarke, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-clarke/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/airdrieonians-3-1-dumbarton-duffy-20798175)

Furious Dumbarton manager Jim Duffy slammed his side’s defending, as the Sons slumped to defeat against Airdrieonians.
Defensive errors lead to all three of the Diamond’s first-half goals, with former Dumbarton man Calum Gallagher giving the hosts the lead after just 27 seconds - leaving Duffy angry with the basic errors that cost his side any chance of a third away win of the campaign.
Duffy fumed: “We made some horrendous individual errors, even in a bad game you might make one, but not three, and we made three.
“We handed the game to Airdrie today, they didn’t have to work hard for it - we gifted them it.
“Obviously they had to be good enough to take advantage of it, which they did do, but we seemed a bit shellshocked and in the first 10 or 15 minutes we were all over the place, then we got an equaliser and we should’ve let it settle us into the game.
“But we made another two terrible mistakes, and got punished for it.
“It’s lapses of concentration, I said to the players in there that you couldn’t coach against those kind of mistakes.
“If a ball bounces over someone’s head or two players collide into each other, that’s not tactics or coaching or shape or whatever, that’s just individual lapses of concentration.
“We have to be better than that, and we are better than that.”
There were two changes in the Sons side that took the field at the Penny Cars Stadium from the one which had defeated Peterhead a week previous, with Stefan McCluskey taking the place of PJ Crossan and Matthew Shiels replacing the injured Rico Quitongo.
 
And inside the first 30 seconds Sons’ run of consecutive clean sheets was ended in calamitous fashion.
After Shiels and Morgyn Neill had got themselves into all sorts of trouble defensively, Conor Brennan spilled a shot to the feet of Calum Gallagher, and the man who had top scored for Dumbarton in consecutive seasons made no mistake from close range.
Airdrie, and Gallagher, should’ve had a second shortly after as he glanced Leon McCann’s wicked cross inches wide of Brennan’s goal.
Slowly however Dumbarton settled and, after a period of possession, found an equaliser - albeit in somewhat fortuitous fashion.
Joe McKee sent Reghan Tumilty free down the right, and the Morton loanee’s cross looped over David Hutton and into the net via the far-post.
McKee was then involved again as the Sons almost added a second, with Morgyn Neill’s header from his cross cleared off the line and the big defender’s follow up flashing just wide of target.
Goalscorer Tumilty was next to threaten, as he picked up Adam Frizzell’s pass and drove inside before curling an effort wide of target.
And Sons lack of a cutting edge was then punished twice in four minutes as the game neared half-time.
First Gallagher did well to hold off Neill’s challenge and sent Dale Carrick in on goal, with the diminutive forward keeping his cool to drill low beyond Brennan and into the net.
And he had a second minutes later as Shiels and Neill collided challenging for the same ball, allowing Callum Smith time and space to pick out the former Kilmarnock one for a tap in at the far post.
 
Early in the second-half Dumbarton looked like they could’ve found a route back into the game, as Ryan McGeever powered Joe McKee’s corner goalwards - however Hutton produced heroics to push the former Queen’s Park captain’s header away from goal.
And it was the all-action Diamonds who saw out the game comfortably, with Carrick twice spurning good chances for a hat-trick, whilst a late Stefan McCluskey effort from range that just flashed wide was as close as the Sons came to setting up a nervy finale.
For more local news from West Dunbartonshire click here .
