
# Eddie Jones: 'I'm almost redundant now. The team's running the team'

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:42:55+00:00**

Author: **By Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/eddie-jones-im-almost-redundant-now-the-teams-running-the-team)

Eddie Jones has challenged his England players to inspire the nation by toppling South Africa in Saturday’s World Cup final.
Jones believes that victory over the Springboks at a sold out 69,000 International Stadium Yokohama has the ability to bring joy to the country and fire the imagination of future Red Rose stars.
And when England run out for their fourth World Cup final, a match they enter as favourites, they will have instructions from their head coach to be fearless in their final assault on the Webb Ellis Trophy.
“The players can inspire a whole country now, they can inspire a sporting community,” former Japan coach Jones said.
“That’s the opportunity they’ve got and all the messages we’ve seen back in England show that there’s a bit of a rugby fever going on.

        Click here to see the video
      
“Now mums are telling kids ‘play rugby’, be the next Kyle Sinckler, be the next Ellis Genge, and that’s the opportunity they’ve got.
“It changes how the country feels about itself for a period of time – it might change at the next general election – but for a period of time it changes how people feel about themselves and that’s the greatest joy.
“If I look back at Japan and look at the growth of rugby in Japan from what we did in 2015, it’s spectacular.
