
# Moussa Dembele in Manchester United transfer twist as £100m alternative enters the fray

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:41:27+00:00**

Author: **Graeme Young, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/graeme-young/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/moussa-dembele-manchester-united-transfer-20787744)

Ambitious Manchester United are plotting a sensational transfer coup as they eye a move for in-form Argentina star Lautaro Martinez.
The Inter Milan forward has come alive under Antonio Conte with a host of the world's best teams keeping tabs on the emerging 22-year-old.
And United, who would have to pay around £100m for Martinez, have a bargaining chip if signing talks begin with Alexis Sanchez who is currently on loan with the Nerrazurri. The Red Devils also sold Romelu Lukaku to Inter for £74m during the last window.
The admiring glances in the direction of Inter's key man, who has scored nine goals in 14 appearances, will be of keen interest to Moussa Dembele .
The former Celtic striker is a long-term United target with reports suggesting Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is growing increasingly confident a deal for the Lyon hitman could be forthcoming in January.
But United, who have won their last three games in all competitions, have also been keeping close tabs on the like of Atletico Madrid's Saul Niguez and Juventus striker Mario Mandzuckic.
 
Dembele remains a key target with a fee in excess of £60m likely and the Hoops set to pocket a significant wedge due to a 10 per cent sell-on fee inserted when the 23-year-old joined OL in August 2018.
The Old Trafford side's transfer coffers could be boosted with Roma exploring options to turn Chris Smalling's switch to Roma into a permanent deal after his impressive start to life in Serie A.
The former Fulham man can be had for £18m and any incoming cash will likely be placed straight into the transfer pot for the next two transfer windows.
But the Guardian report it's now Martinez who is turning heads in Manchester and is an option to add competition for Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford.
