
# The best recent thrillers – review roundup

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:00:55+00:00**

Author: **Alison Flood**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2019/nov/05/thrillers-of-the-month-understudy-cold-fear-their-little-dark-place-siberian-dilemma-alison-flood)


        A drama-school student spells danger, murder mystery in Greenland, a prisoner’s secret, plus the new Arkady Renko novel
      
BA Paris, Clare Mackintosh, Holly Brown, Sophie HannahHodder, £7.99, pp352
Bringing together four crime writers to write one thriller could be a disaster. But in the case of The Understudy, this quartet pull it off with aplomb, while clearly having a whale of a time. The set-up verges on the melodramatic, but that’s all part of the fun. Four teenage friends attend the exclusive Orla Flynn Academy for the Performing Arts. When a new girl joins, threatening things start happening to the group: is the new girl responsible, or is one of the friends hiding something? Told from the perspectives of their four mothers, and through glimpses of the girls’ Snapchat exchanges, this is as scathing, astute and tangled as a teenager’s friendships. “You’re not going to get any sleep tonight because a sly-as-fuck teenage malignancy is still persecuting your daughter,” thinks one of the mothers. “A sociopath-free school would be best for everyone, but you can’t always get what you want,” opines another.
Mads Peder NordboText, £10.99, pp400
There are lurid murders aplenty in Danish writer Mads Peder Nordbo’s Cold Fear. Journalist Matthew Cave is investigating two disappearances: that of his father, who was part of a military experiment decades earlier on the Greenland ice cap; and that, in the present day, of his half-sister Arnaq, who was camping with friends in the abandoned town of Færingehavn when they all vanished, with pools of blood left behind. The plots, past and present, interweave to reveal larger-than-life baddies with insanely evil plans, but the real pleasure in this slice of Scandi noir is the insight it gives into the strange cocktail of claustrophobia and remoteness that is life in Greenland. Here, even place names shimmer with poetry – Qeqertarsuatsiaat, and Ittoqqortoormiit, which is “perhaps the most remote town in the whole world, with 850km of mountains and ice separating it from its nearest neighbour, Tasiilaq”.
AS HatchSerpent’s Tail, £12.99, pp288
There are layers within layers and letters within letters in This Little Dark Place, which opens as Daniel sets out to recount the story of his past to a mysterious “dear Lucy”, in August 2033. It’s 16 years after an as-yet-unspecified crime, and he writes – flicking between his present and the past – of how he and Victoria’s failed attempts for a baby drove them apart, and how, desperately lonely, he entered a penpal programme for prisoners and began corresponding with Ruby. “Reading her name for the first time I felt, as you feel fine dust settle on your arm if you sit very still, a tiny speck of danger attach itself to my life,” he writes, presciently, telling Lucy that he felt “a darkness behind [Ruby’s] words”. As Victoria and Daniel’s relationship falls apart Daniel tells of how he moved to a remote cottage, where “sometimes the silence was so thick it felt like the kind of silence that exists when you hide in a cupboard and hold your breath”. His behaviour becomes erratic, and then Ruby turns up in person. This is an intense, oppressive debut, with its dark climax sudden and shocking in its plausibility.
Martin Cruz SmithSimon & Schuster, £16.99, pp288
Gorky Park author Martin Cruz-Smith’s deftness of touch, lightness of humour and depth of knowledge are on display as ever in The Siberian Dilemma, his ninth novel featuring Moscow investigator Arkady Renko. This time, Arkady is sent to Siberia by his corrupt boss – “just when he thought he had eluded the snake, the snake swallowed him a little bit more” – to deal with what Zurin, his superior, says is a Chechen terrorist. As ever, the case may not be all it seems, but Arkady has reasons of his own for wanting to get to Irkutsk – his lover, Tatiana Petrovna, a journalist sent there on assignment, appears to have vanished while investigating an oligarch. “Let me get it straight,” his partner Victor says. “You propose going into the world’s largest landmass, most of it frozen, in search of someone who may not want to be found? … Would you like me to write your obituary today or tomorrow?”
• To order The Understudy, Cold Fear, This Little Dark Place or The Siberian Dilemma, go to guardianbookshop.com or call 020-3176 3837. Free UK p&p over £15, online orders only. Phone orders min of £1.99
