
# Petronas sees positive signs at its Boudji appraisal off Gabon

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:41:19+00:00**

Author: **Nazuin Zulaikha Kamarulzaman**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/petronas-sees-positive-signs-its-boudji-appraisal-gabon)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 7): Petroliam Nasional Bhd (Petronas) saw ‘preliminary indications’ from its appraisal well on the deep-water Boudji pre-salt oil and gas discovery off Gabon, which was made last year, says oil and gas news website Upstream.
The national oil corporation is also lining up drilling plans on nearby blocks off the central African nation that it recently picked up, with drill ready prospects already identified, the news site said.
“We are still currently drilling our Boudji appraisal, but already — although this is preliminary — we do see positive indications from Boudji-2,” Petronas vice president of exploration Emeliana Rice-Oxley told Upstream at the Africa Oil Week Conference in Cape Town.
The Boudji-1 discovery well was drilled on Block F14 (Likuale) in 2800 metres of water, hitting 90 metres of gross high quality hydrocarbon-bearing pre-salt sands in Gamba and Dentale horizons.
Following the success, Petronas was in August awarded two other blocks in the region, F12 (Yitu) and F13 (Meboun), which are both up-dip from Boudji.
Rice-Oxley said based on the work done, she believes there are additional opportunities in the pre-salt further up-dip of Block F14, where she sees further potential for oil and for reservoir.
“We are again pursuing the pre-salt play, where we expect to find thicker sands in the pre-salt. We see ample opportunities to test numerous targets that are reachable by the (same) drilling rig,” she added.
One prospect on the radar on F13 is called Jove Marine, located about 50km north-west of Boudji and is aerially larger than Boudji, at least twice as large in terms of area, and it is also in water depths that are 700 metres shallower.
Upstream reported Petronas is currently doing high-end seismic reprocessing on the block and is set on spudding the well in the fourth quarter of next year.
The website added Petronas is also looking at a prospect called Mbama on F12, which is eyed for drilling in the third quarter of 2021.
It is around 70km from Boudji and is also larger in area, while it is situated in just 500 metres of water. Petronas will acquire data over the area to better image the pre-salt, Rice-Oxley said.
She said Petronas “found that the deep-water wells found better quality sands, thicker and blockier relative to the onshore and inboard wells”.

        Read also:Petronas-linked counters rise on possible participation in Aramco's IPO Petronas may want close association with Aramco, says expert
      
