
# Hamilton churches join forces to bring best comedy show in town

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shirley Bartynek, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/shirley-bartynek/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/hamilton-churches-join-forces-bring-20787203)

With plagues, floods and persecution you might not think the Bible is a source of humour.
However, three Hamilton churches are taking to the stage to perform an innovative comedy night based on the scriptures.
You might be familiar with TV show Whose Line Is It Anyway? and now Whose Word Is It Anyway? is coming to town.
Cadzow Parish, St John’s Parish and Hamilton Old Parish have teamed up to form Drama Kirk.
And they are performing an evening of Bible-inspired improvised comedy tomorrow (Friday, November 1) at 7pm in Hamilton Old Parish.
Liz Blackman, who leads Drama Kirk, explained: “The opportunity to combine different performance styles and the occasional silly prop with Bible stories struck me as a great way to help us experience some parts of the Bible afresh.
“Perhaps putting a different slant on things will help us understand them differently, or perhaps it will help it to stick in our memories.
“Either way, it gives us an informal way to explore scripture.
“Whilst improvised comedy is not an approach you might take for a Sunday morning service, it struck me as an ideal way to look at Friday night church, where we can all relax together.”
All of the improvised material on the night will come from Bible stories suggested by the audience. You could, for example, see the Nativity as a spaghetti western, the book of Revelation as a Tarantino movie, hear Bible stories in the style of different authors or see well-known Bible characters interviewed by TV personalities.
The organisers say that the evening promises to be a fresh, fun way to enjoy the scriptures, where anything is possible.
Drama Kirk are already known locally for their innovative approach to bringing the Bible to life, which has included an annual large-scale Passion Play in Hamilton.
Tickets for the comedy night are £5 and refreshments will be on sale at the interval. Go to www.eventbrite.com/e/whose-word-is-it-anyway-tickets-74877397311 for tickets.
