
# Shelley Kerr on bookies' Hearts manager shortlist as Jambos gaffer hunt takes twist

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:01:11+00:00**

Author: **Record Sport Online**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/shelley-kerr-bookies-hearts-manager-20788440)

Shelley Kerr is in the frame to replace Craig Levein at Hearts, according to bookmakers Ladbrokes.
The Scotland women’s manager is 33/1 to become the Jambos' next manager in what would be an unprecedented move in world football.
Nowhere across the globe has a female taken charge of a top flight club.
Stephen Robinson and Jack Ross remain the favourites for the position. But punters reckon Hearts power-broker Anne Budge could be interested in looking at a bold and innovative appointment.
Kerr , 50, has already managed a men’s side having run Stirling University in the Lowland League for nearly three years.
She took charge of the Scotland women's team in 2017 and qualified the nation for the World Cup in France last summer where her side came so close to reaching the knockout stages.
David Macdonald of Ladbrokes said: "There have been female coaches at lower levels in men’s football in Germany and France but this would be historic.
"Not only would it make Scotland a leader in the world game it would also be very positive for women's football."
Stephen Robinson 2/1
Jack Ross 3/1
John Robertson 5/1
Austin MacPhee 8/1
Steven Pressley 10/1
Michael O'Neill 12/1
Derek Adam 14/1
Gary Naysmith 14/1
Robbie Neilson 14/1
Paul Hartley 16/1
Stuart McCall 20/1
Shelley Kerr 33/1
Alex Neil 50/1
