
# A New, More Equitable American Dream: A Conversation with Ryan Carson

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rebekah Bastian**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/rebekahbastian/2019/11/06/a-new-more-equitable-american-dream-a-conversation-with-ryan-carson/)

The American Dream is defined as “the belief that anyone, regardless of where they were born or what class they were born into, can attain their own version of success in a society where upward mobility is possible for everyone.” While this is an aspirational notion, the reality is that populations that have been marginalized or oppressed often don’t get access to the opportunities that might unlock this upward mobility. This is certainly the case in the tech industry, where the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has revealed 69% of employees to be white and 64% to be men. With software development ranked as the #1 best job of 2019 by U.S. News & World Report, the lack of opportunities for underrepresented populations to grow into tech careers has huge implications. We like to believe that anyone that works hard can achieve what they aspire to, but the truth is that we must first create equitable opportunities before that can be true.
One person focusing on unlocking these equitable opportunities is Ryan Carson, the CEO and founder of Treehouse. He is leading a partnership with AnitaB.org and Boys & Girls Club of America called Project Unlock the American Dream, with big goals around making software careers accessible for identities that are historically underrepresented and underserved in the tech industry.
I got a chance to talk with Ryan about this important initiative.
Rebekah Bastian: What led you to focusing on creating tech opportunities for underserved populations?
Ryan Carson: I was born in 1977 in Colorado Springs. When I was eight, my dad brought home an Apple IIe computer and I fell in love with technology. One day in 11th grade, my math teacher said, “You should take our computer programming course. You tell the computer what to do, and it does it!” I took the class and it changed my life. I went on to study Computer Science, start a company, raise millions of dollars in venture capital and build a successful tech company. 
In 2016, I signed a diversity pledge which caused me to get educated about the massive barriers that people of color, women, folks who are disabled and the LGBTQ+ community face before they can get into tech. It was like I had taken the red pill in the Matrix. I had no idea that my upbringing, color, gender and other factors not related to hard work, had given me such a huge advantage. 
I decided to use my advantages to help build the ladder to jobs in tech to empower people that don’t have access. I wanted to help make the American Dream a possibility for all Americans.
Bastian: You founded Treehouse almost 10 years ago. How has your work progressed and what have you learned along the way?
Carson: We’ve taught over 850,000 adults how to code online. In 2016 we launched the Techdegree, which is one of the world’s best online Computer Science curriculums. You learn all the important Computer Science fundamentals and build real-world projects and apps.
We’ve now created the Treehouse Apprenticeship Program. This program involves a two month recruitment period, in which Treehouse partners with Boys & Girls Clubs of America and AnitaB.org to recruit high-potential talent. We then begin working with employers to train their team on inclusive on-boarding. After that comes a three-month ‘Learn-and-Earn’ period, in which students begin learning for 40 hours per week through the Treehouse Techdegree while being paid an MIT Living Wage hourly rate. Treehouse conducts weekly meetings with the students and employers for mentoring, coaching, and progress review. After that comes the three-month fulltime apprenticeship, where students learn employer-specific development processes. Eighty percent of those apprentices convert to permanent employees, and Treehouse continues providing career support for an additional three years so they can navigate challenges and advance their careers.
Bastian: Project Unlock The American Dream is a new initiative for you, partnering with AnitaB and Boys & Girls Club. What does that partnership look like, and what do you hope to accomplish through this project?
Carson: We’re taking our Treehouse Apprenticeship Program, and creating a 10-year, 10-city, $1 billion plan to train and place 100,000 Americans from diverse backgrounds into software engineering apprenticeships across America. In doing this, we will be empowering 100,000 families to raise their incomes by $40,000+ and access high-quality healthcare insurance for their families and children. This investment will create a quarter of a trillion dollars of wealth for hard-working Americans, their children, their grandchildren and generations to come, with zero student debt. As with our Treehouse Apprenticeship program, we will continue to support all participants for three years after placement, so they continue to rise in their careers.
Bastian: How does this apprenticeship model set employees and companies up for success in different ways than other non-traditional pathways into tech?
Carson: In addition to the computer science skills, we train our apprentices on 21st century workplace skills and financial literacy. We also train the employer on how to be inclusive, which increases belonging and retention. Finally, we support the converted apprentices long past the training period so they can continue to rise in their career.
Bastian: You have a very lofty goal. How can people from different roles and backgrounds help you achieve it?
Carson: Please join us! You can get involved by heading to projectunlocktheamericandream.org and sign up to hire apprentices at your company, donate to sponsor apprentices, and share the movement on social media. And if you’re ready to unlock the American dream yourself, you can apply to be an apprentice there as well!
