
# MNA gets 34th Blue Plaque from Yangon Heritage Trust

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **San Po Po Su**

Original: [Eleven Media Group Co., Ltd](https://elevenmyanmar.com/news/mna-gets-34th-blue-plaque-from-yangon-heritage-trust)

 
YANGON- Yangon Heritage Trust yesterday gave its 34th blue plaque marking Yangon’s heritage to Myanmar National Airlines (MNA) Headquarter, on Strand Road, in Kyaukdata Township, Yangon.
The Myanmar National Airlines Headquarter was Bombay Burmah Trading Corporation Limited (BBTC) Headquarters which was one of the most successful teak exporters at that time.
The BBTC originally was founded as the name of Wallace Bros & Company Limited in 1863 aiming to export tea leaf to Bombay from Myanmar.
However, the building was bought by the  Union of Burma Airway which was founded on September 15th, 1948. It was renamed Burma Airways in 1972 and Myanma Airways in 1989, the airlines had international services from 1950 to 1993. The airline has been rebranded as Myanmar National Airlines and launched its upgraded domestic service in December 2014, with its international services resumed in 2015.
Yangon Heritage Trust, Yangon City Development Committee and supporting partners honor key heritage sites throughout Yangon by installation of the commemorative Blue Plaques.
Blue Plaques are permanent signs installed at a public place to commemorate a link between that location and a famous person, event, or landmark--- serving as a kind of historical marker.
 
 
San Po Po Su
 
