
# Buffalo Bills Might Be Most Flawed 6-2 Team You’ve Ever Seen

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Curtis Rush**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/curtisrush/2019/11/03/buffalo-bills-might-be-most-flawed-6-2-team-youve-ever-seen/)

The Buffalo Bills might be the most flawed 6-2 team you’ve ever seen on an NFL field.The Bills are off to their best start since 1993, but there is no euphoria among the players or coaching staff. And people are still asking: Are the Bills as good as their record indicates?
We are soon to find out because the NFL club faces a tougher schedule in the final eight games of the regular season, with the Dallas Cowboys, Baltimore Ravens and New England Patriots still to come, and no one on the Bills is taking anything for granted.
As quarterback Josh Allen explained after the 24-9 victory over the Washington Redskins on Sunday, the word he would use to describe the club is “hungry” and not euphoric.
Obviously, you can count the sportsbooks in Vegas as disbelievers.
Next week the Bills go into Cleveland as the underdogs against the Browns, even though Cleveland is 2-6. The opening line has Buffalo as a 2.5 point underdog on the road, according to Super Book USA.
This is despite the fact the Bills are 3-0 on the road and the Browns are 0-3 at home. Cleveland is coming off a 24-19 loss to the Denver Broncos as Browns QB Baker Mayfield finished 27-for-42 and 273 yards, with one touchdown.
Even though rookie Bills running back Devin Singletary accumulated 140 yards from scrimmage against the Redskins and Allen was workmanlike in running the attack, it wasn’t the offense that is the primary concern now heading into the last half of the season.
It is the run defense.
After allowing 218 rushing yards in last week’s 31-13 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles, the Bills gave up 127 yards on the ground to the Redskins, with most of the big gains coming from veteran Adrian Peterson, who rolled up 101 yards on just 10 carries in the first half for an average of better than 10 yards a carry.
The Bills tightened things up in the second half.
It’s not as if the offense has figured things out because Allen has now gone two straight games throwing for fewer than 200 yards. Against the Eagles, Allen threw for 169 yards and against the Redskins he was held to 160 yards in the air.
The difference in the passing attack seems subtle. John Brown continues to produce as he hauled in four passes for 76 yards against Washington.
But Cole Beasley seems to be less of a factor all the time, although his role is being masked because he caught a TD pass for the third straight game, which is the first time that has happened in Buffalo since Charles Clay in 2016.
Beasley continues to run great routes and he’s a great possession receiver. But against the Redskins, Beasley was targeted only twice and caught both passes for only 13 yards – his lowest totals of the season. He has not caught more than four passes in a game since the loss to New England in Week 4, when he hauled in seven passes for 75 yards.
This is not why you signed the former Dallas Cowboys receiver to a four-year, $29 million contract in the off-season. Unless he is hiding an injury, Beasley has to be more involved in the offense.
The other area that fans must track going forward is the Bills’ strange scoring lapses in the third quarter. For whatever reason, the offense has come up cold to start the second half. In five games, the Bills have scored zero points in the third quarter, which is by far their weakest quarter.
The schedule continues to favor the Bills in the short term. The next three games give the Bills a chance to go to 9-2 because they face the Browns (2-6), Miami Dolphins (1-7) and the Denver Broncos (3-6).
Once they achieve that level of success and a wildcard position seems secure, perhaps then will the Bills allow themselves to feel some euphoria.
For now, they remain a team full of flaws.
Oh, and while the Bills do indeed have the best record since the 1993 Bills started 7-1, the comparisons should stop there.
That 1993 Bills team finished 12-4 and lost the Super Bowl for the fourth straight time. Nobody is talking like the current Bills squad is anywhere close to being a Super Bowl contender.
That’s why there are so many disbelievers who look at Buffalo’s 6-2 record and see flaws instead of reason for euphoria.
