
# Diablo IV is revealed, sure looks like a supercharged Diablo II

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:02:20+00:00**

Author: **Sam Machkovech**

Original: [Ars Technica](https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2019/11/diablo-iv-is-revealed-sure-looks-like-a-supercharged-diablo-ii/)

During the opening ceremony of Blizzcon 2019, Blizzard Entertainment confirmed the most unsurprising game reveal in the company's recent history: Diablo IV.
"We've had Diablo IV in development for some time," Blizzard President J. Allen Brack said, following its reveal (which we already suspected). He added that the company wanted to be sure the game was in a playable state before announcing it to the world. Hence, Diablo IV's reveal included a lengthy gameplay trailer and a promise that all conference attendees could play the game's demo during the weekend-long event.
The reveal included confirmation of the week's many leaks: that the game would revolve around the return of Diablo II's villain Lilith; that the new game's art style would return to a black-brown-and-red motif, a la Diablo II; and that its first three revealed classes would be the barbarian, sorceress, and druid. Game Director Luis Barriga pledged to fully support a more "brutal" take on player-versus-player (PvP) combat, but he didn't go into further details on how that will operate.
Though Barriga wasn't ready to reveal a release date or window, he did confirm the game will launch on Windows PC, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One. That chosen series of platforms may peg the game's launch before 2020's holiday season, when we expect to see new PlayStation 5 and Xbox Scarlett consoles... or it may simply be a placeholder announcement before Diablo IV winds up on newer consoles, anyway.
