
# Lady Gaga to star in Gucci murder drama for Ridley Scott

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:41:44+00:00**

Author: **Guardian staff**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/nov/01/lady-gaga-to-star-in-gucci-drama-for-ridley-scott)


        Next role after Oscar-nominated turn in A Star is Born will be Patrizia Reggiani, convicted murderer of fashion mogul
      
Lady Gaga has set her next film role in Ridley Scott’s retelling of the assassination of Gucci grandson Maurizio Gucci.
According to Deadline, the singer will follow her Oscar-nominated performance in A Star is Born with the role of Gucci’s ex-wife Patrizia Reggiani who was tried and convicted of orchestrating his death.
In 1995, Gucci, who was at one time the head of the family fashion house, was shot outside his office by a hitman. Two years later, Reggiani was arrested and the year after she was sentenced to 29 years in prison for her role in his death, becoming known in the media as the Black Widow. Her daughters claimed that a brain tumour had affected her behaviour in the hopes that the conviction would be overturned. She was eventually released in 2016 for good behaviour.
“If I could see Maurizio again I would tell him that I love him, because he is the person who has mattered most to me in my life,” Reggiani said in a 2016 interview in the Observer. When she was asked for her thoughts on what he might say in return, she replied: “I think he’d say the feeling wasn’t mutual.”
Scott will bring the story to screen with the help of wife Giannina Scott who is best known for playing the wife of Russell Crowe in Gladiator while also producing a number of films including Concussion and Mark Felt. The script, based on the book The House of Gucci: A Sensational Story of Murder, Madness, Glamour, and Greed, will come from first-time screenwriter Roberto Bentivegna.
Gaga’s performance in Bradley Cooper’s musical remake scored her an Oscar nomination for best actress and an Oscar win for best song. She’s also appeared in Ryan Murphy’s American Horror Story on the small screen and made her big-screen debut in Machete Kills.
Scott’s last film was Getty kidnapping drama All the Money in the World starring Michelle Williams and Mark Wahlberg and his next project will be The Last Duel, a 14th-century thriller with Matt Damon, Ben Affleck and Jodie Comer.
