
# 'We won one, but I lost two and it's horrific and terrible'

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:43:25+00:00**

Author: **By Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/martin-johnson-we-won-one-but-i-lost-two-and-its-horrific-and-terrible)

World Cup-winning captain Martin Johnson believes this England squad have their best rugby ahead and urged them not to dwell on their Rugby World Cup final heartache.
South Africa lifted the Webb Ellis Trophy in Yokohama after a 32-12 win over Eddie Jones’ men.
England were favourites heading into the final after a stunning last-four victory against New Zealand, who had won the 2011 and 2015 editions.
It means Clive Woodward’s team from 16 years ago – captained by Johnson – remain the only northern hemisphere side to have won the World Cup, but the 49-year-old believes the nation should not feel all doom and gloom.
“Sometimes you need a little bit of time to reflect after a World Cup and for the players hopefully a lot of them will be there in four years time and get another shot at it,” Johnson told the PA news agency.

        Click here to see the video
      
“I am sure they probably won’t over analyse it because they go straight back into playing when they get home.
“This team hopefully has its best rugby ahead, not behind it. For someone to beat the All Blacks, they were going to have to play very well and England did that, but South Africa played their best game to beat England.
“I felt for the boys, I felt for the fans, but that is the nature of it. You have to be there in the last game and grab it and we didn’t quite do it.”
Johnson knows how it feels to lose at the World Cup to South Africa, after England were knocked out of the 1999 tournament following a quarter-final defeat to the Springboks.
