
# Ren Zhengfei: No US company is willing to negotiate for our 5G technology

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:39:35+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/07/ren-zhengfei-no-us-company-is-willing-to-negotiate-for-our-5g-technology/)

Ren Zhengfei: No US company is willing to negotiate for our 5G technology3 (60%) 6 votes
Over the past two months, there have been reports that Huawei is willing to sell access to its 5G technology to an American company. However, in a recent dialogue with some professionals, Huawei’s CEO, Ren Zhengfei, said that the company is willing to sell access to its 5G technology to an American company but no one is willing to negotiate.
“This is a very big and very difficult decision. The big American companies have to think carefully. When someone is willing to discuss this issue, we will find an investment bank. The bank will help us intervene to discuss the contract and cooperation of the transaction.” Ren Zhengfei said.
Regarding why Huawei is particular about selling access to its 5G technology to an American company, Ren Zhengfei believes that the competition is “good”. According to him, the US is behind in 5G. Europe, South Korea, and Japan all have their own 5G technology so the only viable buyer should be the US. However, he didn’t deny the fact that another reason for selling to a US company is to re-establish cooperation. For him, if an American company has access, it will be convinced that the network is clean. However, he believes that technology companies are not the problem but the politicians.

        Via
      
