
# Man sacked from family business after he was late to dinner at parents house

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:35:13+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/man-sacked-family-business-after-20824790)

A man sacked from a family business after turning up to dinner late has been awarded more than $10,000 in compensation .
Pasquale Parente was fired after not making evening plans at his parents' house on time.
Pasquale - assistant manager of the Melbourne family business Selective Smash Repairs - was given his P45 on Sunday March 10.
But he went legal and it was decided that he had been unfairly dismissed.
The Fair Work Commission heard he was late for dinner and this led to an argument with his angry parents.
 
The Commission discovered he was told to leave and never come back - either to his parents' house or to his job.
He has now been awarded $10,115 in compensation after neither of his parents or the business responded to the application.
Selective Smash Repairs was not represented at the hearing.
Commissioner Sarah McKinnon said: "The facts are as they are disclosed by Pasquale. The only question is whether the dismissal was unfair, and if so, what should be done about it.
"Pasquale was dismissed for arriving late for a family dinner. His relationship with his parents had been under strain for approximately one month, but there is insufficient context before me to explain why arriving late for dinner would have been a valid reason for dismissal. I am not satisfied that it was.
"I am left in the dark as to any additional contextual matters that should or could have been taken into account when considering if the dismissal was unfair.
"It is, to my mind, extremely sad that what was once a loving family has allowed relationships to deteriorate to the extent that they have."
She added there was "a genuine loss of trust and confidence between the parties which is likely to be a difficult hurdle to overcome given the deeply personal relationships involved".
"I am satisfied that an order for compensation is appropriate in the circumstances," the commissioner said.
