
# Battle of the bands: Will it be Amatorokisi vs Amapiano at EFF's second conference?

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:10:00+00:00**

Author: **Tshidi Madia**

Original: [News24](https://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/battle-of-the-bands-will-it-be-amatorokisi-vs-amapiano-at-effs-second-conference-20191107)

The so-called "Amapiano" and "Amatorokisi" factions will not matter when the EFF finally sits for its much-anticipated second national people's assembly to elect new leaders and assess its policy positions next month, according to party insiders.
EFF members have been grappling with the state of the organisation, slate politics and the future of the party as it heads to the assembly which starts on December 13.
The name "Amapiano", which stems from the latest electronic music genre sweeping across the nation, has been co-opted by a group of members calling for advocate Dali Mpofu, who is the current EFF chairperson, to return to its top six leadership.
Mpofu has reportedly fallen out of favour with the party's leader, or commander-in-chief as he is better known among members, Julius Malema.
A number of members have also raised concerns about Mpofu's ability to deliver as party chairperson due to his busy legal schedule.

        READ: EFF leader makes case for Dali Mpofu to quit as national chairperson
      
The "Amatorokisi", named after a popular song from Venda artist named Makhadzi, is seen to back Malema and what has been speculated to be his desired outcomes at the conference.
It is believed Marshall Dlamini is Malema's preferred candidate for the position of secretary-general.
"I honestly can't see contestation when we finally sit. There is no secret ballot, this will make it difficult to contest," said a conference delegate, close to some of the party's top leaders, to News24 on condition of anonymity.
An expected 4 500 party members are expected to gather at Nasrec from December 13 to 16.
"People forget Julius is also a delegate, the likelihood is he will second the nomination of those he supports, then Limpopo - after seeing the CIC's hand raised - will follow his lead and that candidate reaches threshold," continued the party member.
The insider said while some others in the party might want to push forward a different name, chances were that Malema's folded arms would be read as a sign that he was not in favour of those candidates and as a result would not meet the threshold.
