
# Nolte: Snopes Confirms Dems Tried to Impeach Every Elected GOP President Since Eisenhower

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:58:11+00:00**

Author: **John Nolte**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/07/snopes-confirms-dems-tried-impeach-every-elected-gop-president-eisenhower/)

Naturally, while confirming this, the garbage fire of fake news that is Snopes rated what is “mostly true” as “mostly false.”
The claim is: “Have Democrats Tried to Impeach Every GOP President Since Ike?”
Snopes decided to fact check this claim based on a popular meme that shows a black and white photo of Gen. Eisenhower above a caption that reads “INTERESTING FACT!!! Did you know Democrats have tried to impeach every Republican President since Eisenhower???”
Looking to debunk this mostly true claim, Snopes accidentally confirms that Democrats have indeed tried to impeach every elected Republican president since Eisenhower [emphasis mine]:
So, Snopes has indeed confirmed that Democrats have “introduced articles of impeachment against five of the last six Republican presidents,” the sole exception being Gerald Ford, who was not elected.
Ford was not even elected to the vice presidency; he was appointed by Nixon after his original vice president, Spiro Agnew, resigned in disgrace over a matter that had nothing to do with Watergate.
What’s more, Ford was president for only a little more than two years.
But there you have it — confirmation from a left-wing fact check site that Democrats sought to impeach five of the last six Republican presidents and sought to impeach every Republican elected to the presidency since Eisenhower.
Granted, the meme that claims Democrats tried to impeach every president since Ike is not 100 percent accurate. But after Snopes confirmed the meme was 5/6th correct, why is a mostly accurate claim hit with a verdict of “mostly false”?
I think we all know the answer to that one…
Because it is a damning fact that proves just how anti-democratic the Democrats are, what a bunch of sore losers they are, and Snopes is not a real fact-checking site, it is a Palace Guard for the political left.
So Snopes splits hairs between what it describes as “serious” impeachment efforts and efforts that never went beyond a lawmaker introducing articles of impeachment.
So what we have here is Snopes making a subjective opinion about what “tried to impeach every elected Republican president since Eisenhower” means — and wouldn’t you know it? — Snopes’s subjective opinion falls right into the category of aiding and abetting the left.
But by any objective, pro-science standard, the meme in question is MOSTLY TRUE.
Regardless, we should at least thank Snopes for doing the hard work that proves for a fact the following…

        Democrats Have Tried to Impeach Every Elected GOP President Since Eisenhower…
      
Thanks, Snopes!!!
Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.
