
# MSP urges Holyrood to tightens lobbying rules after Ruth Davidson two jobs scandal

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **John Ferguson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/john-ferguson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/msp-urges-holyrood-tightens-lobbying-20799095)

An MSP has demanded that Holyrood tightens rules on lobbying in the wake of Ruth ­Davidson’s two jobs scandal.
The ex-Scottish Conservative leader last week dropped a plan to take a £50,000 position with ­Tulchan Communications while ­she continued to sit at ­Holyrood.
She backed down under pressure from ­politicians who said the 25 day-a-year contract would have been a conflict of interest, and called for her to quit as an MSP.
The SNP’s Gordon Macdonald has now written to Holyrood’s standards committee chairman Bill Kidd to ask for a ban on working for a ­lobbying firm while ­representing a Holyrood ­constituency.
 
He also wants MSPs to be able to ask urgent questions of the Scottish Parliamentary ­corporate body, which would have allowed Davidson’s ­membership of the body to be scrutinised last week.
Macdonald said: “There was rightly outrage about Ruth Davidson’s attempt to take a well-paid job with a lobbying firm while still sitting as an MSP.
“That would have been a clear conflict of interest.
“MSPs have strict rules against taking paid lobbying – yet there is not an explicit ban on working for lobbying firms, which potentially leaves a ­loophole to be exploited.
“We need to look again at these rules and ask if they’re fit for purpose.”
 
Davidson has insisted she sat down with parliamentary ­officials to examine the code of conduct “to avoid any conflict”.
She added: “If I am asked to choose between Holyrood and this role, I choose the ­parliament I have dedicated the last nine years to, eight as party leader, a decision Tulchan ­supports.”
Davidson has also set up a firm called Kirkholm ­Broadlands with her partner Jen Wilson, on top of her work as an MSP.
