
# Rosie Fortescue goes on sweary rant after thieves steal her posh jewellery

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:32:51+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/rosie-fortescue-goes-swearing-rant-20812233)

Made In Chelsea's Rosie Fortescue has posted a swearing rant on her Instagram stories after discovering thieves stole from her jewellery stand overnight.
The luxury jewellery brand owner, 29, who is displaying her offering at Spirits of Christmas fair at Olympia London in West Kensington from 4-10 November, visited the venue on Sunday night to lay out her designs in hopes of drumming up business prior to the exhibition space opening on Monday morning.
Overnight the stacks of rings, bangles and earrings, that were only covered by a white sheet atop of a table were stolen, according to the businesswoman.
In response, she penned an expletive rant on her Instagram stories.
She wrote: "Whoever stole from my @rosiefortescuejewellery stand at @spiritfairs. F*** you.
"I hope you get f***ed by karma you c***."
Later in the day, Rosie appeared to have cooled down after being victim to the horrible crime as she share a snap of her kitted out stall, decorated by a rainbow balloon arch onto social media.
She captioned the image "Despite the negative start I’m happy to be here at @spiritfairs stand A50 all week with @rosiefortescuejewellery You’ll see my stand from far away thanks to my insane balloon arch by @bubblegumballoons come and say hi and buy jewels."
Rosie' elegant and dainty designs feature fun and playful statement pieces included gem encrusted rings, bracelets and earrings.
The South West London native rose to fame on E4's posh reality show in 2011 which she left in 2017.
The star famously hooked-up with Hugo Taylor behind her best pal Millie Mackintosh's back.
In one of the show's most iconic moment Millie confronted her now-husband and her later-bridesmaid Rosie for their dalliance as she took to the stage at a Twenties party.
In front of the crowd, Millie spoke in the microphone and said: "This second... a second toast to my best friend Rosie Fortescue, for hooking up with Hugo Taylor while we were together and lying about it. Here's to friendship... You're disgusting".
However, it all seems water under the bridge with Rosie being bridesmaid to Millie when she tied the knot with Hugo following her split from UK rapper Professor Green.
