
# 14+ Sons Whose Handsomeness Can Outshine Their Celebrity Dads

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/wonder-people/14-sons-whose-handsomeness-can-outshine-their-celebrity-dads-794692/)

It was just recently when Alain Delon, Jude Law, and other actors were breaking the hearts of ladies around the world. It seemed no one could outshine their charm and handsomeness. However, it turned out that a new generation of talented, ambitious and very attractive guys who can easily compete with their parents has grown up and caught our attention!.
We at Bright Side were pleasantly surprised to learn about these handsome guys that are going to replace our favorite show-business-loving celebrities.
Many people don’t know that Jude Law is a father to many kids — the actor has 5 children! A 23-year-old named Rafferty Law is Jude’s son from his first marriage with actress Sadie Frost. Having inherited subtle facial features from his father, the young man has been working as a model for quite some time and participates in fashion shows around the world. Apart from that, Rafferty is fond of music and plays in the band, Dirty Harris.
Is there anyone who can compete with Alain Delon and his attractiveness? Perhaps the only person who can do it is his son. Alain-Fabien is 25 years old and acts in movies and works as a model. Since 2015, the young man has been the official face of the Dior fashion house. Moreover, he’s tried himself at writing and published his first novel, Of the Race of Gentlemen.
Tom Hanks has 4 kids including a daughter, Elizabeth Ann and a son, Colin from his first marriage. The latter got his father’s outstanding acting talent and became a successful actor and producer. Chet and Truman Theodore are Tom Hank’s sons from his second marriage. The 29-year-old Chet first decided to follow in the footsteps of his father and film movies but seems to have changed his mind. Today he is composing rap songs. As for the younger son, he maintains an isolated lifestyle and doesn’t like public attention.
David Beckham is raising 3 sons and a daughter. Despite his young age, the eldest son, a 20-year-old Brooklyn, has already tried himself in many spheres. As a child, he was fond of football and played it very well, then he worked as a model and actor but eventually found himself in photography. Today, Brooklyn assists famous photographers and does photos for commercial campaigns.
Everyone seems to be familiar with the Skarsgård dynasty. Stellan is a happy father of 8 kids! Many of them have already tied their lives to cinematography. However, 43-year-old Alexander, Stellan’s first son, and 29-year-old Bill have already become our favorites. Both of them are sought-after actors.
Clint Eastwood is another happy father of many. The actor and producer has 7 kids. Perhaps the most famous out of them is a 33-year-old Scott Eastwood. As a child, the boy showed interest in acting, and his father decided to help him by filming him in the drama, Flags of Our Fathers. Today, Eastwood junior is involved in many big projects and has an army of fans.
The son of popular actor Jeremy Irons has also decided to extend the actor’s dynasty. Max got his success after the release of the movie The Host which is based on Stephenie Meyer’s novel where he played one of the main roles. After that, he was invited to be in the series The White Queen and the young man’s career has been increasingly growing since then. And thanks to his remarkable appearance, Max used to be a highly sought-after model.
Will Smith’s younger son, Jaden, is known by many. The young man appears in the social scene often, does charity, works as a model, and composes music. At the same time, Will’s son from his first marriage, 26-year-old Trey, is hardly spoken about. Nevertheless, he is also fond of music and appears in movies. It’s worth noting that Will has always been actively involved in helping his eldest son build his career.
A 33-year-old Wyatt Russell is the son of Kurt Russell and actress Goldie Hawn. It was several years ago when Wyatt was planning to devote his life to sports — he was playing hockey professionally. However, he had to stop his career due to trauma. Today, he’s trying himself as an actor. He’s played the main role in the movie Folk Hero & Funny Guy and has starred in the episode of the series, Black Mirror.
Pierce Brosnan’s sons from his second marriage, Dylan and Paris, were very lucky to get their father’s good looks. It’s not surprising that both young men decided to build a career in the modeling business. The 22-year-old Dylan takes part in fashion shows for brands like Burberry and Yves Saint Laurent, while the 18-year-old Paris collaborates with Dolce & Gabbana. Apart from modeling, Dylan is actively engaged in music, while Paris is involved in shooting short movies.
The 26-year-old son of Bill Pullman, Lewis Pullman, has also decided to devote his life to film. He started with short films but today he can be seen in popular movies like Bad Times at the El Royale and Catch-22.
Arnold Schwarzenegger’s son has been an ambitious kid since childhood. At the age of 15, he founded his own men’s clothing company. After that, the young man managed to work as a model and became the face of the Hudson Jeans brand. Patrick has also always been attracted to movies and starred in the flick, Grown Ups 2 and played the main role in the romantic drama, Midnight Sun.
Brandon Thomas Lee, the 23-year-old son of actress Pamela Anderson and musician Tommy Lee, not only inherited a handsome appearance from his parents but creative skills as well. Today, Brandon is building his career as an actor and has already appeared in several movies.
Weston Coppola Cage has a versatile personality. At the age of 28, he’s already acted in several movies and has become a popular musician. Weston sings in the band, Eyes of Noctum. Weston is already married and has become a father himself.
Whose son seemed the most attractive to you? Are you aware of other celebrity sons that should be included in this list? We’d be glad to hear from you in the comments!
Preview photo credit Vinnie Levine / MEGA/Mega Agency/East News, Matt Holyoak / Evening Standard /EAST NEWS
