
# Halloween Kills Has Wrapped, See Kyle Richards’ Return To Haddonfield

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:26:34+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483823/halloween-kills-has-wrapped-see-kyle-richards-return-to-haddonfield)

Written By
As far as horror franchises go, there are few quite as beloved as Halloween. John Carpenter's 1978 original movie was a game changer for the genre, helping bring slashers to theaters in the process. The property has never been far from theaters, with 2018's Halloween made a ton of money at the box office, starting a new timeline in the process. That story will become a bonafide trilogy, as David Gordon Green will direct two more movies, the first of which being Halloween Kills. And now we can see the first look at the return of Kyle Richards aka Lindsey Wallace.
After expressing her interest in returning to the franchise, Real Housewives of Beverly Hills Star got her wish with Halloween Kills. She's reprising her role as Lindsey Wallace, one of the kids being babysat when Michael came knocking in the original Halloween. Anthony Michael Hall is playing an adult Tommy Doyle, and you can check them out via a monitor from the set of the recently wrapped movie. Check it out below.
Does anyone else have chills? The kids who survived Michael Myers' attack on Haddonfield are all grown up. And it looks like they'll have a major presence in the upcoming sequel Halloween Kills.
This new images comes to us from the Twitter account of Halloween Movies. To celebrate the upcoming sequel's wrap on production, the generations of fans were treated to an image of the movie being filmed. In the center of the frame is Anthony Michael Hall's Tommy Doyle, and to his left is Kyle Richards as an adult Lindsey Wallace. It's been a whopping 40 years since Laurie Strode saved their lives, so it's going to be major news when its revealed that Michael Myers has escaped Smith's Grove, and Laurie's basement trap.
There's another original actor in the frame as well: Nancy Stephens' Marion Chambers. Marion was the assistant of Donald Pleasence's Dr. Loomis in the original Halloween movie. She also survived an encounter by Michael, although he was able to escape in her car. Marion also had a role in Halloween II and H20, but those movies are no longer canon in the current timeline. The survivors seem to be assembling, likely for their own protection as Michael remains on the loose.
Jamie Lee Curtis had previously teased that Halloween Kills will really 'unpack' the events of John Carpenter's original Halloween. The cast list alone shared this, as many familiar faces from Haddonfield are returning for David Gordon Green's sophomore run in the franchise. In addition to Tommy Doyle, Lindsey Wallace, and Marion Chambers, Charles Cyphers' Leigh Brackett will also reprise his role. Finally, Robert Longstreet will play Lonnie Elam, the little boy who bullied Tommy and grew up to have a son Cameron (Allyson's cheating boyfriend from 2018's Halloween).

        Related: Jamie Lee Curtis Shares Epic Halloween Kills Set Video, And Wow
      
Kyle Richards has remained in the public eye following her work as a child actress. She's an original cast member of Bravo's Real Housewives of Beverly Hills, having starred in the reality show for a whopping nine seasons to date. When Halloween was hitting theaters, Richards expressed her interest in reprising her role as Lindsey for a future movie. What's more, she helped promote the movie with co-star Jamie Lee Curtis. And now it's come to fruition, with OG fans of the franchise eager to see her return to the story after decades.
Halloween Kills will arrive in theaters on October 16th, 2020. In the meantime, check out our 2019 release list to plan your last trips to the movies this year. And our 2020 release list to plan your trips to the movies in the New Year.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
