
# UK's 'worst' Elvis impersonator banned from contest - because he's so bad

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:16:41+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/uks-worst-elvis-impersonator-banned-17209392)

Britain's worst Elvis Presley impersonator has been left 'All Shook Up' after being banned from a look-a-like contest - for being 'too rubbish.'
Organisers of the annual King's Crown Elvis tribute contest told stunned Simon Goldsmith he could not compete because they did not want him 'laughed off stage.'
Simon, 46, works as a postman by day and raises money for charity at night by turning into the King of Rock 'n' Roll and belting out hits wearing a white, sequin clad suit.
And while he admits he's a 'bit low budget' and probably the 'eighth best Elvis tribute' in his home village, he says he always puts on a good show.
Contest organisers had told Simon he could not take part in last month's event because they 'did not want to embarrass anyone' and claimed his act was 'too comical.'
Simon, who admits he is probably Britain's worst Elvis tribute, said: "I might look a bit rubbish, but I can sing and put on a really good show!
"I don't look anything like Elvis, but I can sing like him pretty well.
"I just want to do something different and to be fun. You see a lot of Elvis tributes who just go through all his tracks but I do something different.
"People really enjoy what I do and if it makes people happy then that's a job well done!
"I applied for the competition in February but I was rather suspicious of it because these competitions always sets alarm bells ringing.
"You either get one for a variety of different acts or you got one where it's a bunch of old friends performing straight and it turned out to be the latter.
"I sent the organiser some pictures and a video of me but I think he did a bit of digging because he asked for some other ones that weren't comical.
"I just said we'd leave it there but when I saw the quality of some of them that got in I thought I could have done that!"
As Harry Isaac Presley, Simon covers modern songs including Britney and does a varied amount of Elvis looks- including Zombie Elvis.
Simon, from Suffolk, explained: "I did it as a one off on New Year's Eve in 2005 so that was my first public outing. It was just for fun.
"Then it all changed when my dad passed away in a hospice in 2009.
"There was a world record attempt for the longest ever Elvis marathon and the world record then was 42 hours. I tried to beat it in 2010 but I only got to 35 hours before I had to stop.
"That's when I got a bit of press coverage and it just grown from there. I do a lot of charity events and I've done a marathon dressed as Elvis.
"I think it's great and we've made lots of money over the years.
"My act is a spoof Elvis tribute act. It's more of an Elvis tribute tribute!
"It's quite slapstick and I don't take myself too seriously and I do alternative songs. I cover songs that weren't even around in his era like Britney Spears but I sing it in his style."
Simon had planned to donate the £1,000 prize money from the Ipswich-held competition to St Elizabeth Hospice in memory of his late-dad.
But after his application was rebuffed, he checked out of 'Heartbreak Hotel' and decided to fund raise himself and raised over £2,600 in just three days.
He added: "I did some gigs and concerts and I couldn't believe how much money was raised. My target was £1,000 but in the end it was over £2,000."
Andy Sexton, the organiser of the King's Crown Elvis tribute act competition, said he didn't accept Simon's application because he was "too comical."
 
He said: "Our Elvis competition is not a comedy show.
"It's all getting a bit silly now. Every Elvis tribute act in the competition are serious, they don't clown about and there's a certain standard that they all have to meet.
"Anyone could enter it otherwise, I could do Elvis a little and enter myself but these guys are professionals.
"If you were going into a Madonna competition and you do a bit of comedy and then the ten other Madonna's blow you out of the water you would feel a bit silly.
"I'm the organiser and I didn't pick him it's as simple as that, if he's refused, he's refused. I choose between 10 to 12 to enter and they have to be the best.
"I didn't want people laughing at him."
 
Although he admires Simon's charitable work, Andy claims he just wasn't right for the competition because Elvis "doesn't dress up as a zombie."
He continued: "He does a lot of charity work and I'm not going to take that away from him. I take my hat off to him for all the money he has raised for charity, he gets my total respect for that.
"My competition is small fry compared to some other competitions. He's making himself look silly.
 
"I turned four others away exactly the same, I'm never nasty. I would tell them that they haven't been accepted this year but that I would consider them for the next year.
"Elvis didn't dress up as a zombie or anything like that, it just wasn't his humour. He would have got laughed off stage and I didn't want that for him, I'm not a cruel guy.
"This is a serious competition and people pay money to get into it and watch it."
