
# Register for Art Club at the Library on Nov. 19th at 6 p.m.

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Stettler Independent](https://www.stettlerindependent.com/news/register-for-art-club-at-the-library-on-nov-19th-at-6-p-m/)

It’s November, time for some interesting events before the busy Christmas season!
The Stettler Public Library is pleased to have Alana Skocdopole of Model Milk in Calgary come and help you Wine Down a Little.
This is a Wine Survivor boot camp to prepare you for the Christmas Wine Survivor event in December. Join us on Saturday, Nov. 16th at 7 p.m. as Alana leads us on a sensory tour of a variety of wines.
Learn more about the notes and flavours of different wines and what pairs well with each.
Register at the Library for the low cost of $12 for an informative and fun night. Bring your friends and make it a date! Call us at 403-742-2292 for more information.
Don’t forget to get your tickets for the 2nd annual Friends of the Library Christmas Wine Survivor!
For just $20 and a $15 bottle of wine, you can win enough wine to get you through the holiday season.
Tickets are on sale until Dec. 5th.
Our wonderful Friends of the Library Group will be hosting an Elimination Party on Saturday, Dec. 7th for all the members of the Stettler Public Library who have bought a ticket.
You do not have to attend the elimination party to win, but you will have fun if you do. Not a member yet?
We have a remedy for that! Memberships are free to residents of Stettler and Stettler County thanks to the support of our Town and County Council!
For more information, call the Library at 403-742-2292. The proceeds from this fundraiser will go towards the establishment of an equipment lending collection at the Library.
The English Conversation Café happening on Mondays at 10 a.m. and Wednesdays at 6 p.m. is an excellent way to practice your English conversation in a small, friendly group setting, facilitated by the Stettler Learning Centre. Join our Café community as often as you like and enjoy complimentary treats.
Take advantage of the library’s volunteer resource person on Thursday afternoons from 1 to 3 p.m.
She has a wealth of knowledge about community and government resources and can provide expert help with anything job related such as resumes, cover letters, work search, and interview skills.
Ever wonder just who you are and where you come from?
The Stettler Genealogy Club meets the first Thursday of the month (Nov. 7th) from 6:30 to 8 p.m. and invites you to explore your past.
Connect with others and find out how to use Ancestry.com to discover your family history.
Looking for an opportunity to practice or improve your French language skills?
La Connexion on Thursday, Nov. 7th from 6:30 to 8 p.m. can help. Join others for a café au lait and conversation.
Does the thought of public speaking scare you?
Join toastmasters in the SRC boardroom on Thursday, Nov. 7th and 21st at 7 p.m. and discover that it need not be so daunting.
Join this welcoming group where members help each other improve their skills.
Does your teen love to write?
Have them join Doug Gregory at the library on Friday, Nov. 15th from 4 to 6 p.m. and explore where writing will take them. Share ideas with other like-minded teens and learn more about creative writing. Do not forget to bring a pen and paper!
Would you like to create and send out personal Christmas Cards this holiday season?
Register for our Art Club on Nov. 19th at 6 p.m.
Andrea Hatch will be in the library and will help you unleash your creative spark. All supplies provided; register early, as spaces are limited.
Parents with young children ages zero – 6 years will enjoy two programs for tots offered at the library in partnership with the Stettler Learning Centre.
Magic Carpet Ride (Tuesdays) and Read and Rhyme (Wednesdays and Saturdays) are offered 10:30 to noon. Play, sing, read and have fun together!
Each program provides many fun activities for the whole family OR give your partner the gift of time!
If you would like to see our other programs, check out our web site at https://spl.prl.ab.ca. For more information on library services stop by for a tour anytime or call us at 403-742-2292. We post information about upcoming events and other interesting bits on Facebook, be sure to follow us there for the latest news!
