
# Cruel dog owner taped pet's jaw then went on holiday leaving pooch with no food or water

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:47:24+00:00**

Author: **Campbell Thomas**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/cruel-dog-owner-taped-pets-20835721)

A dog owner who gagged her pet with a taped-on muzzle and left it without food or water before going on holiday has been branded “sickening” by a sheriff.
Elizabeth Steel, 44, abandoned the Collie cross , called Rio, after covering its face with a makeshift gag so it couldn’t bark.
Police forced entry to Steel’s home in Kilmarnock after a neighbour heard a noise and spotted the stricken dog through a window.
It then emerged Rio was infested with fleas and suffering from sores and a skin condition, the town’s sheriff court heard yesterday.
Steel, of Kilmarnock, admitted causing unnecessary suffering by taping a muzzle to the dog’s face, denying it food, water or a means of escape, and failing to provide adequate care and treatment between July 18 and 19.
 
Blaire Ford, prosecuting, said an upstairs neighbour could hear the dog “grunting” below and knew Steel had gone on holiday the day before for the weekend.
She added: “He looked through the kitchen window and observed the dog locked within the kitchen with a muzzle on, which was wrapped with black tape, and noted that there was no food or water.”
The man called the Scottish SPCA , which was unable to respond initially, before contacting police the following day. Officers broke in using a battering ram after seeing Rio lying motionless.
Ford said: “The dog was alive and had begun to move around. There was no food or water in the dog bowls and the dog was wearing a muzzle wrapped in black tape and had a collar on which was too tight.”
Rio was taken to a vet for treatment and then found temporary refuge.
 
Sheriff Alistair Watson warned Steel she would likely face a control order over the keeping of animals in future.
Sheriff Watson added: “This is a pretty sickening piece of behaviour towards a dog and I will have to consider how to deal with you on the next occasion.”
Sentence was deferred for reports.
Scottish SPCA chief inspector Laura McIntyre said: “This was an awful case of cruelty causing Rio to suffer unnecessarily. We are pleased Steel has admitted the offence and look forward to hearing the sentencing in this case.”
