
# Need D/N Tests to get people back to watching Test Cricket, believes Dilip Vengsarkar

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:40:29+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/need-d-n-tests-to-get-people-back-to-watching-test-cricket-believes-dilip-vengsarkar?utm_medium=rss)


        Former Indian batsman Dilip Vengsarkar has hailed the idea of D/N tests and has asserted that such changes in Test Cricket are very much needed to attract more and more people to watch the longest format of the game. India will play their first D/N Test against Bangladesh at the Eden Gardens.
      
Former Indian batsman Dilip Vengsarkar represented India at a time when Test Cricket was primarily the only important format and was getting the huge crowds it deserved. But with the rise of T20 and ODI cricket, the crowds have started to show less interest in Test cricket and that is evident by the number of empty seats in stadiums. Making Test cricket a pleasant viewing experience is the need of the hour to attract large crowds and D/N Tests is the right way to go forward. Vengsarkar hailed the concept of D/N Tests and said that such revolutions in Test cricket are needed to bring back the fame of this format that was once prevalent in India. 
"It (Day/Night Test) is a good thing, we will have to wait and see at the end of the day on how it goes. Of course, there will be dew factor. So I don't know how it will work, but I hope it goes well because it is good for Test cricket. We needed these changes to get the people back watching Test cricket," Vengsarkar told TOI.
So far, 11 international pink-ball matches have been played and 5 of them were played on Australian soil, showing what a big success D/N Tests are in Australia. Vengsarkar believes that this will also be a hit in India and hopefully the required measures will be taken to deal with the dew factor.
"We will come to know only after the Test match, but it is good to start something. We saw in Australia how huge a success it was, so I am sure the people of India will also lap it up. It is the way to revive Test cricket and get the crowds in," he said.
Pink-ball has had instances of swinging a lot and offering extra help to the fast bowlers but it has also helped spinners as Kuldeep Yadav was impressive when pink-ball is used in the Duleep Trophy. Former Indian spinner Dilip Doshi has also praised the concept of D/N Tests but has also said that as a spinner the basics need to remain the same although the ball has changed.
"You have to think of nothing except getting used to the ball, practise with the pink ball and focus on spinning, you cannot worry about factors beyond your control. One single ball, whether it is white, pink or red should not change your approach. Basics should never change for you as a spinner," said Doshi.
"It is going to bring the crowd back because everything needs to be marketed well today. Test cricket should not die because if Test cricket is dead, cricket will be dead. Test cricket is the proper diet without which you can't survive," he added.  
