
# Popeyes chicken sandwich prompts stabbing

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Cheryl K. Chumley**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/5/popeyes-chicken-sandwich-prompts-stabbing/)


        ANALYSIS/OPINION:
      
A 28-year-old man was stabbed to death while standing in line for a Popeyes’ chicken sandwich in Maryland.
Is this really what we’ve become — a nation that places such low value on human life that even a chicken sandwich can cause a killing?
“We have been able to determine, preliminarily, that this is related to the release of the sandwich,” said one Prince Georges County police spokesperson, The New York Daily News reported.
According to various media, the fight began over line-cutting.
Fox 5 reported someone cut in a line that had gathered to order the popular sandwich. An altercation broke out and the 28-year-old man was stabbed. Police and emergency officials responded to the scene and transported him to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead, according to police. The suspect, meanwhile, fled and is still at-large.
Talk about a crazed culture.
“For you to get that angry over anything … and to develop into this type of violence,” said Jennifer Donelan, on behalf of Prince Georges County Police, Fox 43 reported, “is a very sad and tragic day.”
Got that right.
It’s a sign of a very sick society. A very secular society. A society that’s crumbling from within, falling prey to its own wickedness. Obviously, the suspect has mental health issues. But then again: He hails from a country where abortion on demand is as natural to some as deciding what’s for dinner, selecting what to wear, choosing which movie to watch.
He lives in a country where human life has already been devalued and scorned beyond belief.

          • Cheryl Chumley can be reached at cchumley@washingtontimes.com or on Twitter, @ckchumley.
        

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
