
# Lawless to hold Dáil launch and farmers meeting

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/01/4181782-lawless-to-hold-dil-launch-and-farmers-meeting/)

AONTÚ’S Paul Lawless is kicking off his Dáil campaign next Tuesday (November 5) in the Travellers Friend Hotel at 8 p.m.
Lawless, who announced his candidacy last month, also ran in the local elections in Mayo in the Claremorris Municipal District.
Lawless, who has been hugely involved throughout the beef crisis and the Aontú Beef Equitable Pricing Bill, is also holding a farmers meeting on the night.
Deputy Peadar Tóibín will speak on the beef crisis and the Aontú bill which has passed the first stage in the Dåil and promised cross-party support.
Alo Mohan, who is widely known in the farming community for exposing corruption in the poultry industry, is a guest speaker, as well as Joe Campbell from Independent Farmers of Ireland.
Said Lawless: “While the protests may be suspended the issues have not been resolved. The sugar industry disappeared overnight, and the beef will be next unless we stand up and protect it.”
Lawless is also expected to unveil his plans for the second Mayo cataract bus to Belfast.
He commented: “Over my local campaign, I learned first hand the issues the people of Mayo are facing, particularly the older generation; none more heart wrenching than those on waiting over three years for 15-minute cataract surgery, while their eyesight deteriorates.”
“After the campaign, I set about organising a cataract bus to Belfast for those who could no longer wait. Due to the demand, I am organising a second cataract bus to Belfast. Those who are interested in travelling to Belfast under the Cross Border Directive are encouraged to attend the meeting for more information."
