
# Changes Galore For Pirates V Chiefs

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:28:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/soweto-derby/orlando-pirates-to-make-changes-for-kaizer-chiefs/666911)

Orlando Pirates are expected to make some changes to their playing personnel for the much-anticipated match against Kaizer Chiefs. 
Against Maritzburg United in the 0-0 draw on Tuesday night, Pirates had Wayne Sandilands, Happy Jele, Innocent Maela, Ntsikelelo Nyauza, Abel Mabaso, Ben Motshwari, Fortune Makaringe, Vincent Pule, Gabadinho Mhango, Kabelo Dlamini and Tshegofatso Mabasa in their starting line-up.

        Read: Pirates’ Huge Soweto Derby Blow! 
      
Augustine Mulenga and Justin Shonga came on as substitutes later on in the match.
However, with Jele suspended due to a sending off, as well as the anticipated return of star midfielder Thembinkosi Lorch, Rulani Mokwena is expected to make changes for the upcoming Soweto Derby in search of three points and protect the club's pride. 
Against Chiefs last weekend in the Telkom Knockout quarter-final match in Durban, Pirates had Sandilands, Jele, Maela, Nyauza, Mthokozisi Dube, Motshwari, Makaringe, Pule, Lorch, Dlamini and Mabasa in their starting line-up. 

        Read: Pirates Star To Return For Derby… 
      
Abel Mabaso, who started against Maritzburg, came on as a substitute, in addition to Paseka Mako and Mhango.
Justice Chabalala, Asavela Mbekile and Xola Mlambo are some of the players who have been knocking on the door to show Mokwena and his technical team that they are ready for a chance in the side.       

        
          Who do you think deserves a start in the Soweto Derby this weekend? Let us know in the comment section below. 
        
      
