
# 5 Secrets Of Onboarding 100% Remote Workers Revealed By Hiring Experts And Leaders

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nigel Davies**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/nigeldavies/2019/11/06/5-secrets-of-onboarding-100-remote-workers-revealed-by-hiring-experts-and-leaders/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

There was a time, not too long ago, when “onboarding” hadn’t yet entered the corporate jargon dictionary. New recruits had to work out where the coffee was, all by themselves. Training was for the lucky–all strip lighting, damp sandwiches and flip charts–and branded merch was reserved for only the highest paying clients.
Happily for everyone, employers started to connect the dots between happy, engaged workers and heightened productivity, and onboarding became a carefully produced experience.
Today, attentions have turned to figuring out how to improve the experience for 100% remote workers, who may never witness the cultural delights of head office. 
Business owners generally agree that success rests heavily on new hires themselves. Jennifer Farris, chief people officer at Terminal, which helps startups build remote engineering teams, says: “One of the most critical elements of the recruiting process, outside of assessing technical skills, is how experienced and comfortable the individual will be in a distributed work environment. Identifying self starter abilities, natural collaboration and strong communication skills is essential.”
Likewise, Matthew Edgar, partner at SEO agency Elementive, warns that not everyone is cut out to be a remote worker which, he thinks, hinges on their personality, aptitude and career stage. He adds: “You need to find somebody who wants to work from home, is responsible enough to manage their own schedule, and has a strong work ethic that doesn't require being closely supervised.”
Pete McAllister, founder of link building company OutreachPete, which has an almost entirely remote workforce, swears by the hands off approach to build stronger teams. He hires remote workers in batches and allow them to learn from each other. 
McAllister says: “All new workers are put into a separate [Slack] channel together and given instructional materials and initial training tasks to complete. We purposefully don’t intervene too much and allow them to work together to solve the tasks. You’d be amazed at how it creates an immediate sense of teamwork despite these individuals being spread across the globe. It takes a little bit longer than a purely autocratic approach, but it really pays dividends as you have a motivated and united workforce after onboarding is complete.”
There appears to be some disagreement over whether remote workers should be onboarded in their normal working environment, or invited to the workplace. Jason David, CEO of comparison site Software Portal, explains: “Initially, I believed an employee would need to be present for at least a bit of time for onboarding to be successful, even if just to get the lay of the land, physically meet their co-workers and put a face to each name.” 
As such, he paid travel and accommodation expenses to bring remote workers to the office for two weeks. But, he found they would need a period of readjustment when they returned to their remote location, to set up VPNs, ensure software worked, and figure out lines of communication.
David learned that starting the onboarding process in the situation the employee will find themselves the vast majority of the time increased the likelihood of success. He adds: “If you're working remotely, you're not going to be able to walk down a couple of cubes to find help. You can't hope that someone will see your dumbfounded look and simply offer their support. A big part of working remotely is being self reliant and self motivating. If I have to fly you out here in order for you to get started, maybe working remotely isn't the best arrangement.”  
Yet software company LightStep brings all its new remote employees to its San Francisco headquarters for up to two weeks of onboarding. During this time they meet with their manager, team members, and an “onboarding buddy” and go on outings to help them cement deeper relationships with their new colleagues.
Chloe Bosmeny, workplace and culture manager, explains: “This introduces the remote employee to our norms and guidelines, while making them feel welcome. Once they are settled, our remote employees continue to feel connected through multiple mediums like Slack channels, virtual coffee meetups, and a weekly all hands meeting where remotes are encouraged to participate, just to name a few.”
But what many do agree on is the need to start the onboarding process as early as possible, like Tosho Trajanov, VP of engineering at on-demand developers’ network Adeva, who advises kicking off the onboarding process well before the employee’s start date. He says: “Three weeks before they arrive we send a few emails that bring our company culture closer to the new employee and inspire them to find purpose in what they will be doing. Then follows a personal introduction on Slack with some juicy details about the new team member. After that, we assign them an onboarding buddy who is a go-to person for the new employee and, according to our team, this is the most helpful part of the process. It’s especially important if you have an introverted person who is afraid to speak up or ask questions.”
Similarly, Joe Wilson, owner of custom software developer Volare Systems, who has been hiring remote developers for over a decade, says the trick is to make sure new hires are setup to work well in advance, so everything up and running on their machines in the first hour of the first day. He then gives them one or two simple tasks, like bug fixes, to complete. Wilson adds: “It feels good to be able to contribute and be useful and productive on your first day.”
Putting everything a new recruit might ever need in one place sounds sensible, and it is, says Violette de Ayala, founder and CEO of FemCity, a 100% remote business connecting women in the U.S. and Canada. She says: “In our onboarding portal, we post reports, meeting dates, marketing images, templates for emails and social media, and our training guide which is updated every quarter. We also support our team within a private Facebook group with monthly Facebook Lives with training updates and best practices.”
Of course, online portals can be jazzed up to make them more alluring. Brian Cairns, CEO of financial consultancy ProStrategix digitized and gamified the traditional onboarding curriculum. What used to be a checklist and employee handbook is now a series of slide shows and interactive videos, each with quizzes to do after completion. And there’s a leaderboard for bragging rights. He says: “It wasn’t very expensive to do. We used off-the-shelf tools like Adobe Suite to create the videos and Acuity to develop the quizzes. We keep it fun, interactive, and added the competition element to drive compliance and comprehension.”
