
# Switch Lite Is Generating Its Own Demand, Without Negatively Impacting The Original System

Published at: **2019-11-01T03:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Liam Doolan**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/switch_lite_is_generating_its_own_demand_without_negatively_impacting_the_original_system)

Yesterday, Nintendo's six months earning release gave us our first look at sales for the Switch Lite. As of the 30th of September 2019, the system has sold 1.95 million units. Overall, combined Switch sales now total 41.67 million units worldwide.
Nintendo's president Shuntaro Furukawa has further explained how exactly the Switch Lite is doing at the company's latest financial briefing. Firstly, the handheld system is believed to be "generating its own demand, without negatively impacting" existing sales trends. This is illustrated in the chart below:
Furukawa stated how original model Switch sales actually surged a week after the launch of the Lite. There were, of course, a few other factors in play:
User registrations have also revealed the Switch Lite has a higher percentage of female users. Furukawa mentioned how there was evidence of a "good number of consumers" purchasing the Lite as their second system as well:
Moving forward, the plan is to continue spreading awareness of the "features and appeal" of the Lite.
Nintendo has observed how consumers establish a greater understanding of the system when holding it, so the idea is to increase in-store experiences leading into the holiday season:

        Have you bought a Switch Lite yet? Comment below.
      
