
# Q&A: Red Hot Chili Peppers Bassist Flea On His Stunning New Memoir, ‘Acid For The Children’

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Steve Baltin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/stevebaltin/2019/11/05/qa-red-hot-chili-peppers-bassist-flea-on-his-stunning-new-memoir-acid-for-the-children/)

A member of the Rock And Roll Hall Of Fame with the Red Hot Chili Peppers, an actor, a philanthropist, a diehard Lakers fan, Flea has been much more than one of the most revered bassists in music for the last four decades.He is a part of the fabric of pop culture, and one hell of a good guy. This past weekend I saw the Chili Peppers do their third benefit in little over a month, this one for the Silver Lake  Conservatory school he cofounded almost two decades.
As it turns out, even if he didn't know why he was, as he says, "driven to start the school," at the time, it was in part at least a response to his own tumultuous childhood. And now he is sharing that childhood in his powerful memoir, Acid For The Children.
Written in quick-hitting vignettes, the utterly compelling, engrossing must read takes us from his birth in Australia to moving to New York as a four-year-old, from discovering music, from his parents' separation to how moving to L.A. changed his life.
I met with Flea at his home, seated in the backyard, as his two dogs ran through the interview playing ball with us, to talk about the book, the Conservatory and much more, including Patti Smith, who wrote the foreword for Acid For The Children, and Eddie Vedder, who was appearing with the Chili Peppers at the benefit.

        Steve Baltin: You tell this wonderful story in your book about falling in love with music.
      
Flea: When I was a kid my father worked for the Australian government, he wore a suit every day. When I was four we moved to New York for us to be there for four years while he worked at the Australian Consulate, then we were gonna go back to Australia. And during that four years my mother meets this jazz musician guy, a junkie who lived in his parents' basement. She leaves my dad, my dad goes back to Australia, we move in with this guy in his parents' basement, literally a little basement, the four of us.We live in the basement for a while, everything is turned upside down. But the life-changing thing that happened was shortly after we were in the basement for like six months, we got a little house down the street and Walter has the first jam session that I ever see. And Walter plays bebop jazz. It's a form of music played by Charlie Parker invented in the '40s. It is violent, revolutionary, poetically ethereal, but it's a music that engages the body and the mind in the most cerebral, sophisticated way. You have to be enormously skilled to play it well and these guys play it well. They set up in the living room and they start playing. I remember they were playing fast and Walter played the upright bass. He's hunched over the bass attacking it like a f**king animal. All these guys — saxophones, trumpet, drummer, vamping piano, deep groove. It was like the music took me. I started screaming and yelling and laughing and staring at them. A door opened up to something I didn't know existed and it was the most magical thing I ever could have imagined.

        Baltin: You say in the book you still have never seen anyone play with his ferocity.
      
Flea: Never, and I saw every punk rock band, every hardccore band, every Butthole Surfers show, every Blackflag show that I could see. And I saw a lot of intensity and violence and wildness and out of control and spiritually profound performances. It's funny because I was always reacting against him cause then he became my father figure and he was a very difficult man. He was crazy and violent and a junkie and very irrational and terrifying. But it was only recently I realized when I play bass and I'm f**king into it and I'm going for it and I'm engaging that animal part of myself, I learned that from him. And I always thought I played against him because he played jazz, he looked down on me for playing rock music.

        Baltin: You mention Butthole Surfers and Blackflag, but the heaviness of music isn't only measured by speed and intensity. Look at how punk rock the Plastic Ono Band album is for its candor and anger.
      
Flea: I agree whole heartedly. I never equate volume, speed, distortion, pedals, riffs, heavy riffs with the only way of being heavy. The Plastic Ono Band is a great one. How about Joni Mitchell in her most poetic, beautiful moments? "I wish I had a river I could skate away on." For me, it's always the purity of the feeling. It's the intention, the motivation, the integrity behind it and just the sense of yearning. The human, the pain that we feel and that yearning to f**king transcend the f**king abject pain of being a human being.

        Baltin: It's interesting that both your dad and Walter looked down on rock. I am sure that plays a big part in who you are as a musician.
      
Flea: Oh totally. Looking back on the family problems I had as a kid they drove me to form very close bonds with my friends outside of my family, which is how I end up having a band and doing all that stuff. Cause I formed these bonds running around in the streets with my friends that were really profound and really deep connections and made us, with my band, able to connect in a way where things can be way beyond the sum of their parts, way beyond putting musicians together that are capable of doing different things and forming a togetherness that can be inspiring to different people. I guess it's expressing a loneliness and a hurt that makes all the other lonely and other hurt people not feel so alone. That's what it's all about ultimately with any kind of art.

        Baltin: I love the moment in the book where you describe your nana, in her pants suit, turning around at the Australian show and everybody applauding.
      
Flea: Yeah, it was one of those full-circle moments of a person I didn't really get to see a lot because I left Australia when I was four years old and she came to visit probably three times to America. But when I started writing, I started becoming really fascinated by the parts of my childhood that I couldn't remember clearly, but the feelings are so profound. And it might even be just a smell or a color or an article of clothing, some little part of a memory and you're not even sure why, but it has this profound effect on you and it's like a pillar of who you are. And I started uncovering these things, these feelings from my childhood, in writing about them and in my yearning to understand them. That was really where I kind of fell in love with the idea of writing about my childhood and not going into the Chili Peppers, ending it when the Chili Peppers started. And just writing my formative years. And my grandmother was a part of my childhood where it was just pure love. And I felt such a caring from her.

        Baltin: You also just got married.
      
Flea: You've covered my music school before. So last year's fundraiser, on September 29, I met a woman. I looked at her and she looked at me and I'd never felt anything like that before in my life. I felt like when Walter played all those years ago and like the day the Chili Peppers started. I felt my life turn on its axis. We got married this last weekend. It's such a huge turning point in my life and it opened up a part of me that is so connected to everything that is beautiful in the world and I'm really grateful.

        Baltin: Do you feel like writing the book and all the things you learned about yourself opened you up to the point you could get married?
      
Flea: Yeah, the writing of the book from beginning to end wasn't just writing down stories, it was me trying to understand s**t that happened, It was me trying to make sense of myself. Without doubt it was a transformative process for me, learning about myself and writing about myself and the vulnerability of sharing it with the world in the hopes my loneliness will help make other people feel less lonely. But I definitely think it had a huge part in more recent personal growth for me and being ready for a love that I'm so grateful to be able to share with my wife, which is funny to say because we just celebrated our week anniversary two days ago. You don't get to have that kind of relationship until you're ready because there is no faking it. I wanted to be in a committed relationship, I wanted to have a family, but there is always some obstacle. 

        Baltin: You have played a great deal with Patti Smith. Did you go to her at all for advice in writing?
      
Flea: Obviously I would never try to write like Patti. Only Patti can write like Patti and she is a true author and she is just a master of words. But for me, Patti was just enormously encouraging. Early on I sent her pages of what I was up to. And I'm scared, I've never written a book before. I love literature, I'm a voracious reader. I've read book after book after book since I was a little kid. Books are everything to me, I'm in awe of them. But when I sent Patti my pages, she was so encouraging and kind. She was like, "Flea, you're a natural. You have your voice, I believe in you. This is beautiful, keep writing." This book was done basically a year ago and I was gonna put it out this time last year. And I was going through some family problems and didn't put it out. I was like, "It's too much. I gotta step back and deal with this family stuff before I can put this book out." And even then she was like, "Flea, you're an artist. Put it out, it's your art." In a time when I was scared to put this out right now her belief in me was supremely encouraging and I'm very grateful for it. And also obviously I'm really grateful she wrote a foreword for me. She wrote a poem.

        Baltin: You touch upon the fact it was hard for you to share so much. So how did you get past that?
      
Flea: I knew that no matter how skilled of a writer or clumsy of a writer I would be, and I just wrote the best I could, the book would only have any value at all is if I was completely honest. And in the editing of it I took out a lot of stories that were great stories, they're wild and entertaining and I wrote them well and they're some of my best parts. But I realized I have this in for shock value. And I don't want to go for shock value just for shock value. Everything has to be something that really shaped me. And it has to be honest and it has to be something that made me who I am, like the insecurity of being a kid who wet his bed until he was 11 years old, or my dysfunction in relationships, or my acting like an obnoxious a**hole thinking I was being funny. All of those things are part of my learning process. I can't imagine my book being worth a s**t if I wasn't honest. But it is difficult to write about family members and people that are close to me in ways that they might find offensive. It's funny cause my dad was just here. My stepfather and my mom are both passed away. But my father is still alive. He lives in Australia and I got married and he came out for it. I didn't grow up with him, he left when  I was six or seven. And I didn't even really begin to navigate a relationship with him until I was in my 30s. And it was difficult. We're very different and I knew it would be hard for him to read this. Yesterday he left to go back to Australia and I gave him a copy. I said, "Dad, I had to be honest, I had to tell my story, I hope you don't find this offensive." I knew he was gonna read it one way or the other (laughs). But it's scary, I don't want to hurt him. But I have to be honest or why write it?

        Baltin: Ending the book where you did do you see another volume coming out?
      
Flea: I was absolutely certain I was going to because I initially wrote all the way up to year 2000. I end the book in '83 when the Chili Peppers start. And to me all that stuff leading up to the band explains the band, at least from my perspective, more than had I gone through every recording process and every band argument. But when I decided to do the book just about my childhood I took all the writings about that part and refined them and gave it the rhythm that it has and filled in the blanks and put it in the order I wanted it. But there's all this other stuff too and I'm so still in the process of this book, talking about it, it coming out, dealing with all the vulnerability of putting it out, it's a crazy f**king feeling. But I just don't know. I need to process it, get through it and then decide what I'm going to do. Cause I was certain I was going to do it and right now to be completely honest I'm on the fence.

        Baltin: I just saw Eddie Vedder at Ohana. He can sing anything. Is there one song you'd like him to sing for you and your wife?
      
Flea: (Laughs) One of my favorite love songs in the world is "Into My Arms," by Nick Cave. He is my favorite. But I don't know, everything Eddie sings he really reverberates. But the thing that makes him great is it's straight from the f**king heart.
