
# Balotelli Suffers Racist Abuse In Serie A

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:40:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/serie-a/serie-a-wrap-03-november-2019/666649)


        Hellas Verona 2-1 Brescia
      
Hellas Verona bagged a second straight Serie A victory with a 2-1 triumph over Brescia, although the game was marred by racist chants from the home supporters.
Eddy Salcedo and Matteo Pessina got the goals for the home side in the 50th and 81st minute respectively.
The game was disturbed by racist chants directed at Ballotelli, who reacted by kicking the ball into the crowd before he walked off the pitch. Reports in Italy claim monkey chants were directed at the striker.
The match was suspended for four minutes as the stadium announced informed the crowd that the game would abandoned if the abuse continued.
The Italian returned to the pitch and netted Brescia's lone strike with a superb effort into the top corner late in the second half.

        AC Milan 1-2 Lazio
      
Lazio jumped up to fourth spot in the standings after defeating AC Milan 2-1 at the San Siro on Sunday night.
Ciro Immobile gifted the visitors the lead on 25 minutes, but Milan were level three minutes later through Bastos' own goal.
However, Lazio secure the winner with seven minutes remaining thanks to a strike from Joaquin Correa.

        Geona 1-3 Udinese
      
Udinese bounced back from two heavy defeats with a 3-1 triumph away to Genoa on Sunday afternoon.
Goran Pandev have Genoa the lead on 22 minutes, but Rodrigo de Paul restored parity 10 minutes later.
Ken Sema completed the turnaround for Udinese in the 87th minute before Kevin Lasagna sealed the win minutes later.

        Other results:
      
Atalanta 0-2 CagliariLecce 2-2 SassuoloFiorentina 1-1 Parma
