
# Jordan Henderson explains why he wants Liverpool to lose 'mentality monsters' tag

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:53:59+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jordan-henderson-explains-wants-liverpool-20814666)

Jordan Henderson has called on Liverpool to shed their 'mentality monsters' tag by dominating games and winning them more easily.
The Reds came from a goal down to win their last two Premier League games, scoring twice in the final three minutes to beat Aston Villa on Saturday.
Prior to that they have recovered from drawing or losing positions to beat Salzburg, Leicester and Arsenal recently, while they also scored a late equaliser to draw at Manchester United .
Jurgen Klopp coined the 'mentality monsters' tag after the Reds' improbable comeback to beat Barcelona in the semi-finals of the Champions League last season, but Henderson says it is about time Liverpool stopped putting themselves in such situations.
“Part of being ‘mentality monsters’ is that you challenge yourselves and always look at where you can be better," the Reds skipper wrote in his matchday programme notes for Tuesday's Champions League clash with Genk.
"As a team, do we like the fact that our mindset is ‘keep going and never submit’? Yes, of course. But I would also like to think we’d look at those numbers and set ourselves the task of not putting ourselves in the position in the first place.
“Comebacks make for great television, but it’s on us as a squad to address the issue of falling behind in games.
"We want to be a side that dominates teams and takes total control of a game. We’ve proved time and time again we can do that, but clearly at the moment we haven’t been doing enough to make sure we are in a dominant position on the scoreboard for longer periods.
“There are many reasons you can find yourselves behind in a game and some of them are beyond your control. The opposition might be on fire and have a player who scores an absolute ‘worldie’. You can also get bad luck, by which I mean a bounce of a ball or a poor decision.
“But the truth is, the majority of the time a team goes behind is because they haven’t done the right things in that moment.
"And we as a team will look to address that."
Henderson missed Monday's training session ahead of the Genk game and is expected to sit out the game.
