
# Dr M: Graft no longer an ‘under the table’ act, it’s committed openly by top leaders

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:11:21+00:00**

Author: **Syahirah Syed Jaafar**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/dr-m-graft-no-longer-under-table-act-its-committed-openly-top-leaders)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 5): Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad stressed today the need for everyone to play their part against financial crime, so that Malaysia can transform into a value-driven developed nation.
The prime minister said no matter how tight and comprehensive the regulations introduced and imposed in Malaysia, criminals are still able to find a way around it, which warrants for new and innovative responses.
“While we appreciate the insights and the latest development in dealing with the present day sophistication of financial crime and terrorism financing, the chink to the armour is always linked to bad and ineffective governance due to lack of integrity,” he said in his keynote speech at the 11th International Conference on Financial Crime And Terrorism Financing 2019.
Dr Mahathir said Malaysians have called for better governance and integrity, amid rampant corrupt practices and abuses of power which led them to vote out the previous government.
“I used to say that previously, when corruption was an ‘under the table’ act, it was a scourge to our nation’s future. But the last few years saw corruption becoming an ‘over the table’ act, being committed openly by the top leaders. Others will then do the same without fear.
“From an act viewed with disgust, it became acceptable and before long, those not into it would be considered stupid. It reached a level of almost becoming a lifestyle and that was when cash was ushered in and heralded as the new King,” he said.
The prime minister went on to say that while laws and governance frameworks play an important part in a clean, transparent and accountable Malaysia, they can only go so far.
It needs to be supported with the right leadership in both public and private sectors, in order to ensure that this reinforced culture of integrity will be a new norm in Malaysia, he said.
“We once stood shoulder to shoulder with growing Asian economies. Rampant corruption and greed have led us to lose our way. This must not happen again. Our reputation had been diminished and discredited. We need to regain our reputation and credibility in the eyes of the world.
At the event, Dr Mahathir launched Malaysia Financial Intelligence Network (MyFINet), a new Public-Private Partnership (PPP) initiated by Bank Negara, aimed at being a platform to encourage sharing of intelligence and current topical issues between the law enforcement agencies and financial institutions in managing significant threats to the nation.
He said there needs to be a strong cooperation among regulatory, supervisory and law enforcement agencies in paving way for more deepened collaboration in other forms that bear effective outcomes.
The PPP members include law enforcement agencies such as Royal Malaysia Police, Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission, Royal Malaysian Customs Department and Securities Commission Malaysia, as well as 17 financial institutions.
