
# Lorry carrying 'hazardous materials' left a charred wreck after blaze that caused M6 chaos

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:59:44+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Paxton, https://www.facebook.com/charlottepaxtonbm/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/lorry-carrying-hazardous-materials-left-17202358)

This is what remains of the lorry that sparked a lengthy closure of the M6 - after it was torn apart in an overnight inferno.
The HGV - carrying hazardous materials - was gutted in the blaze which rocked the southbound carriageway, between J1 (Rugby) and J2 (Coventry).
The fire tore through the lorry at around 3am on November 5 and led to the closure of both the north and southbound stretches of motorway.
As of midday, northbound had reopened but southbound remained shut and is expected to stay so 'for some time'.
Highways England tweeted: "M6 southbound J2 to J1 is closed due to an earlier lorry fire that was carrying a hazardous substance.
"Specialist teams are on the scene removing the contents of the lorry safely.
 
"There are delays of 15 minutes approaching J2."
Images showed the charred shell of the lorry on the hard shoulder, with drums of hazardous materials and debris littering the road.
Warwickshire Fire and Rescue sent appliances from Bedworth, Nuneaton and a water bowser from Coleshill.
The fire service remain on scene managing the incident, but the blaze continues to have a huge knock-on effect on surrounding roads.
 
Delays of around 15 minutes remain and congestion is spanning several miles.
A Highways England spokesman said: "The M6 in Warwickshire is closed southbound between J2 and J1 due to a HGV trailer fire.
"Warwickshire Fire and Rescue are on scene managing the incident.
"There are delays of at least 15 minutes above usual journey times on the southbound carriageway between J3 (Bedworth) and J2, with congestion spanning several miles.
"The lorry involved was carrying a hazardous substance, due to this specialist teams are in attendance to ensure the contents are removed safely.
"For traffic approaching the delays locally, you are advised to expect disruption with extra journey time and you may wish to re-route or delay your journey.
"Road users are advised to follow the 'Hollow Triangle' diversion route."
