
# Vintage Electric Partners With Shelby International To Create A Stylish And Quick Beach Bomber E-Bike

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Ewing**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/markewing/2019/10/31/vintage-electric-partners-with-shelby-international-to-create-a-stylish-and-quick-beach-bomber-e-bike/)

“Vintage Electric blends our passion for turn-of-the-century motorcycles with the simplicity of electric drivetrains,” says Andrew Davidge, CEO of Vintage Electric of Santa Clara, California. He founded the firm in 2012 at the age of 21.Vintage Electric’s latest creation is the Shelby bike, which adopts the aesthetics of Carroll Shelby’s personal Cobra roadster. “Shelby International approached us with this project. They were looking into multiple brands for collaboration and our name came up. It was one of those pinch-yourself kind of days,” says Davidge. “I have always had a love for Shelby and to get this opportunity was just too cool!”
The resulting e-bike has the most potent version of the Vintage Electric powertrain, including a “Race” mode that allows owners to use electric-assist up to speeds of 36 mph under private-road conditions.
“We build completely legal Class 2 and 3 e-bikes,” says Davidge, meaning they meet regulations California set up in 2015. “That being said, performance and speed is also important to us. We wanted to make sure that our bikes could easily be ‘unlocked’ because a lot of our customers use these bikes to get around their properties or as pit bikes at race tracks around the world.” Vintage Electric “unleashed” is a perfect way to make the rounds on a winery, or ride a quarter-mile to the mailbox.
The hydro-formed aluminum frame captures the elegance of early motorcycles, and bicycles of 60 and 70 years ago. The aluminum battery case echoes the shape of an early 20th Century motorcycle vee-twin engine. “Our battery boxes are 100 percent designed in-house. The design allows us to keep our electrical components 60 percent cooler by using the housing as a large heat-sink,” says Davidge.
“We design our drivetrains from the ground up. In Europe electric bikes are limited to 250w of power, making a mid-drive Bosch-style unit a necessity. In the U.S. we are allowed 750w, which allows us to push the performance envelope of direct-drive hub motors. Our motors deliver three times the power of the Bosch unit, and need little to no maintenance. Our drivetrain design also allows us to bump the power up to 3,000 watts when the time is right,” says Davidge.
“We create bikes with a timeless aesthetic, and we want to keep things as simple as possible. The Shelby bike uses large-volume tires, a very comfortable saddle, and a motorcycle-inspired front suspension fork. We design bikes to get people out of cars and onto something different for their trips around town. If we were building off-road mountain bikes, we would definitely include rear suspension. But there is just a simple connected feel to the road that our bikes give [without a mono-shock rear suspension arm]. You just have to ride one,” says Davidge.
“We use a simple direct-drive hub motor with no more moving pieces than a traditional bicycle. A huge upside of this technology is our ability to engage regenerative braking. When you pull the rear brake lever it engages regen, slowing you down and charging the batteries. Shut off the throttle and the bike slows down just like a motorcycle. All of our bikes have pedal-assist sensors that measure the amount of torque and assist your pedaling provides up to 20 mph. This allows you to pedal it like a traditional bicycle or throttle down and ride like a motorcycle.” Class 2 bikes can provide electric assist up to 20 mph. After that, it’s all down to quads, calves and glutes.
“The leather fork bumps on the Shelby protect against scratching the frame when the fork legs are turned full lock. They are one of those details that could have been rubber, but leather just felt right. When you think of classic cars, you usually think of perfect paint, beautiful leather work, and of course craftsmanship. That’s what we try to bring to the e-bike space.”
Considering Vintage Electric is in Santa Clara and Davidge is second-gen Silicon Valley, you might conclude design is all in the tube, on computer systems. “Everything designed at Vintage Electric starts out the old school way with foam and clay. It’s so cool to be able to look to the past for inspiration before moving to the tools of today to rapidly prototype and take to market.”
“The plan was to go to Art Center, but designing and shipping bikes got in the way. My parents weren't exactly excited at first. One day I will go back to school, but for now I am so in love with what I’m doing, I can’t really stop.”
“Our market is people who have previously owned or want to own a motorcycle, but don’t want to deal with licensing, registration, and fuel. Our internal slogan is we build motorcycles for car guys. We think it’s the best two-wheeled vehicle for around-town commutes.” The Shelby edition of the bike lists for $7249.
“We aren’t here to be the next Trek or Specialized. We know our customers and are doing everything in our power to make their lives better through our product. We hope to grow this business by bringing timeless design and clean urban transportation to the world.”
For men of a certain age like me, the bike reminds of teenage projects, cleaning up an old Schwinn standard to create a fat-tired beach bomber. It also reminds of the 2-stroke French-built Motobécane mopeds we all rode in high school and into college. Except Vintage Electric has the clean, tech element of virtually silent electric drive—no messy 2-stroke oil needed, boys.
“I grew up racing mountain bikes and riding motorcycles. For a lot of people bicycles were their first source of freedom. We want to amplify that through the design and performance of our bikes.”
