
# Verstappen absolutely would have overtaken Hamilton if not for yellow flag

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:16:00+00:00**

Author: **Nicolás Quarles van Ufford**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49404/verstappen-absolutely-would-have-overtaken-hamilton-if-not-for-yellow-flag.html)


        Aston Martin Red Bull Racing star Max Verstappen is convinced he would have overtaken Lewis Hamilton in the final laps if not for the double yellow flags in the second sector at COTA, as Kevin Magnussen's beached Haas saw Hamilton hang on to second place on his way to securing his sixth title.
      
Verstappen was quickly closing in on Hamilton in the final few laps of the United States Grand Prix after the Brit was overtaken for the lead by Valtteri Bottas, getting within DRS range with four laps to go.
An overtake seemed imminent, until double yellow flags were waved at the end of the back straight as Magnussen's car was stranded there. For the final two laps, the 22-year-old wasn't allowed to overtake, meaning he had to make do with a third-placed finish.
Verstappen will have learned not to try anything under a yellow flag after last week's incident in Mexico, as he accepted instances like at COTA on Sunday are simply part of racing.
"Yes, absolutely," the Dutchman was quoted by RaceFans.net when asked whether he would've overtaken Hamilton in those final two laps.
“Just because of that [the yellow flag] we had to lift off. Otherwise, I would have be definitely gone by.

        “But that’s how it is, sometimes these things happen."
      
The seven-time Grand Prix winner now moves into fourth place of the drivers' championship as Sebastian Vettel scored no points following his early retirement.
