
# Horner full of praise for Albon: “It is impressive how quickly he became faster

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:40:00+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Tyrrell**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49177/horner-satisfied-after-fp1-in-texas.html)


        Red Bull have made a good start to the US Grand Prix weekend as Max Verstappen and Alex Albon finished P1 and P3 respectively. Christian Horner is satisfied with the first session and is hopeful of being competitive later in the weekend.
      
Max Verstappen pipped Sebastian Vettel to top the timesheets at the Circuit of the Americas in FP1 with Albon just behind having led a lot of the session. 
Several teams have emphasised the importance of getting in good laps during the practice sessions so they can get a good setup for qualifying and the race. The bend combinations and completely different sectors simply require that.
"The circuit has dropped a bit," Christian Horner told the German branch of Motorsport.com.

        “For example at the exit of the pit lane. However, that is the same for everyone. In any case, the first session started well here and it was really positive. "
      

        "We were very strong in Mexico and it would, of course, be great to have another strong weekend here in Austin."
      
Horner singled out Albon for some praise after his first-ever session at COTA, adding: “It is impressive how quickly he became faster. He seems to be doing well on difficult circuits anyway. He is doing fine so far."
