
# Tezos (XTZ) Bags Listing on OKEx Cryptocurrency Exchange

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:00:44+00:00**

Author: **Aisshwarya Tiwari**

Original: [BTC Manager](https://btcmanager.com/tezos-xtz-listing-okex-cryptocurrency-exchange/)


        In a press release issued on November 4, 2019, OKEx – the world’s largest futures cryptocurrency exchange – announced that it will list open-source blockchain platform Tezos’s digital token – XTZ.
      
Tezos, an open-source distributed ledger technology (DLT) project with a global community of validators, researchers, and developers has secured a listing on OKEx – one of the largest cryptocurrency trading platforms by reported volume.
Per sources in the know, traders will be able to deposit XTZ from November 6, 09:00 UTC. OKEx will enable XTZ spot trading from November 7 09:00 UTC with XTZ/USDT and XTZ/BTC pairs. Further, the traders will only be able to withdraw their XTZ holdings from November 8, 09:00 UTC, the press release adds.
Per data from the cryptocurrency metrics website Crypto Compare, Tezos is ranked 21st in terms of the total market cap of more than $695 million and a 24-hour trade volume of over $206,000.
Created by former Wall Street stalwarts Arthur Breitman and Kathleen Breitman, Tezos provides developers an expansive, multi-purpose ecosystem to develop decentralized applications (dApps) and smart contracts. The governance structure of the project differs vastly from some of the other centralized projects in that it gives power to the stakeholders to make decisions that are pertinent to the upgrade to the core protocol.
Commenting on the development, Corey Soreff, Board of Directors, Tezos Commons Foundation, said:
At press time, XTZ trades at $0.88 – up 2.38 percent in the last 24 hours.
2019 has undoubtedly been one of the most significant years for Tezos not only in terms of project development but also because of the increasing amount of support it has garnered from exchanges and industry leaders from across the globe.
As reported by BTCManager on July 4, 2019, Tezos Foundation bagged a $1 billion secured token offering (STO) deal with major financial institutions including the likes of Banco BTG Pactual S.A. Dalma Capital.
Earlier this year, the project also received a major boost from U.S.-based crypto exchange Coinbase when it announced the launch of the XTZ staking service.
