
# 'Look around you, everybody is united' - Overjoyed SA fans react to Springboks' World Cup triumph

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Jenni Evans**

Original: [News24](https://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/look-around-you-everybody-is-united-overjoyed-sa-fans-react-to-springboks-world-cup-triumph-20191102)

"You know the hashtag #StandTogether? Well this is exactly what it means!"
This was the view of one ecstatic Springbok fan moments after South Africa beat England in the Rugby World Cup final on Saturday to be crowned world champions.
Cape Town's Glenn Geater holding his Springbok jersey between his thumb and forefinger at a bar in Table View in Cape Town said:
"Sport unites the country. Look around you - everybody is united."
Screams went out as Captain Siya Kolisi raised the Webb Ellis trophy on a giant screen. Patrons at the He's Not Here Bar in Table View waited anxiously for President Cyril Ramaphosa to arrive while some muttered about former president Jacob Zuma.
Queen's "We are the Champions" blasted at final whistle at the IT Experience cafe, with everybody singing along to the late Freddie Mercury's iconic song, with high fives and hugs all around.

        READ | 
        
          Kolisi's message to SA: We came together with 1 goal
        
      
Hooters, revving bikes and the start of a long party carried over happy shrieking
Elsewhere, at the British High Commission in Cape Town, a group of English fans in the Mother City had to settle for "better luck next time".
A chorus of "Shosholoza" rang out at the British High Commissioner to South Africa's residence in Cape Town as the Springboks edged to their win on Saturday.
Shouts of "Go Boys!" filled the air and the South African fans hugged and waved flags as those in English colours digested the news that they had lost.
