
# ‘Death Stranding’ Is A Reaction To Trump And Brexit, Says Hideo Kojiima

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dave Thier**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidthier/2019/11/04/death-stranding-is-a-reaction-to-trump-and-brexit-says-hideo-kojiima/)

If we were meant to be keeping politics out of our games, nobody told Hideo Kojiima. The video game auteur has never been a particularly subtle guy, and the Metal Gear Solid games have always had plenty to say about the cold war, nuclear politics, the role of private enterprise in war, and more or less everything else under the sun. That’s why it’s not particularly surprising that his new game, Death Stranding, in which the main character might be seen wearing a distinctly red hat that says “bridges” on it, bears a relationship to modern politics. BBC Radio 1 Newsbeat recently did a short documentary with Hideo Kojiima for the release of Death Stranding. The video is only available in the UK on BBC iplayer, but in it he talks about how he was inspired by the current wave of nationalism when conceptualizing the game.
"President Trump right now is building a wall. Then you have Brexit, where the UK is trying to leave, there are lots of walls and people thinking only about themselves in the world." he says, via Gamesradar. "The era of today is about individualism."
Death Stranding takes place in a shattered version of the United States, where the player delivers packages between isolated communities. Kojiima has talked extensively about how the game revolves around this theme of connection, with players building bridges both between in-game entities and between each other in a semi-shared world. It seems, given his comparison to nationalist politics, that it’s meant to show the power of personal connection in a world increasingly concerned with division.
Death Stranding comes out on November 8, but reviews are already live and all over the place. Most of what people are saying is that it’s classic Kojiima: wild and fascinating with some genuinely interesting concepts, but at the same time ridiculously overblown and self-indulgent, something that either bothers you or sucks you deeper into the game. It is a strange paradox here in the modern gaming world: a large-budget game positioned as a major AAA fall release, and yet hopefully dense and strange, slow-paced and difficult. Such is the magic of Kojiima, probably the only person in the world that can make something like this happen.
