
# Google forges new ‘app defense alliance’ to fix Android malware menace

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:14:30+00:00**

Author: **Ravie Lakshmanan**

Original: [The Next Web](https://thenextweb.com/security/2019/11/07/google-forges-new-app-defense-alliance-to-fix-android-malware-menace/?utm_campaign=tweet6)

Google is finally making moves to tackle the menace that is Android malware.
To this end, the internet giant has officially announced a partnership with cybersecurity firms ESET, Lookout, and Zimperium to catch sketchy apps before they end up on your devices.
Called the “App Defense Alliance,” the initiative aims to reduce the risk of app-based malware, identify new threats, and protect smartphone users from bad actors leveraging the platform for their gain.
To do so, Google is integrating its Play Protect malware detection systems with each partner’s scanning engines, thereby generating valuable risk intelligence that can be carefully scrutinized before making a third-party app available on the Play Store.
Introduced in 2017, Google Play Protect combines a mix of on-device protections and a cloud-based infrastructure to routinely scan over 500,000 apps to keep tainted apps off Google Play and out of users’s devices. It also leverages machine learning to detect malicious apps faster and at a larger scale without any human supervision.
The development comes as the Android platform has been beset by numerous instances of malware in recent months, what with smartphones proving to be a lucrative attack surface for criminals to carry out highly targeted campaigns.
The Play Store malware trouble has been accentuated in part due to the open nature of the ecosystem.
Although Google has employed Google Play Protect as a means to secure devices from potentially harmful applications (PHAs), it’s been powerless against what appears to be a steady pattern of nasty apps bypassing its scanning process, highlighting the scope of the issue.
Last month, Lukas Stefanko, an ESET security researcher, compiled a list of 172 apps on Google Play with upwards of 335 million installs that were found to engage in ad fraud, credit card phishing, and serve other kinds of malware. And this was just for September.
