
# Andrew McCabe surprised by White House 25th Amendment list discussed in book

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:28:40+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Chaitin**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/andrew-mccabe-surprised-by-white-house-25th-amendment-list-discussed-in-book)

Former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe appeared surprised by the claim that White House officials put together a tally of Cabinet officials they believed would support using the 25th Amendment to remove President Trump from office.
The upcoming book The Warning, written by the anonymous Trump administration official who authored a "resistance" op-ed last year, says high-level White House officials put together a "back-of-the-envelope" tally on what officials they thought would be willing to sign a letter to invoke Section 4 of the 25th Amendment declaring the president unfit to perform his duties after he fired FBI Director James Comey.
According to contemporaneous notes written by McCabe, who assumed the role of acting FBI director in May 2017 following Comey's ouster, a very frazzled Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein discussed with him the prospect of using the 25th Amendment. Rosenstein quickly released a statement that said "there is no basis to invoke the 25th Amendment" based on his experiences with Trump. He is also said to have tossed around the idea of wearing a wire to record conversations with Trump.
McCabe was fired from the FBI on the eve of his retirement and is now a contributor on CNN, where on Thursday he said he didn't have any prior knowledge of a list of Cabinet officials who may have supported using the 25th Amendment.
"That’s why this kind of revelation is particularly interesting to me, because I assumed that the discussion that Mr. Rosenstein and I had was simply Rod kind of gaming things out in his head. I never thought that he’d — he never indicated to me ... that he talked about it with anyone else or that the people he was thinking about, that he’d had any conversations with them," McCabe said.
"This is really like — he thought this person and that person might go along with it, but he never indicated he’d actually discussed it with them," he added.
