
# Juma Jux Thrilled Ex Girlfriend Vanessa Mdee Found Love In Rotimi

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:57:25+00:00**

Author: **Eva Nyambura**

Original: [KahawaTungu](https://www.kahawatungu.com/2019/11/04/juma-jux-thrilled-vanessa-mdee-found-love-rotimi/)

Tanzanian singer Juma Jux is happy that his ex, Vanessa Mdee has found love.
According to Jux, his girlfriend of over 6 years is an amazing person who deserves a shot at happiness and love.
Speaking to a local blog, the Sugua hitmaker said he and Vanessa had been broken up for eight months before letting the world in on the secret.
Read: Vanessa Mdee Dating American Star, Rotimi Of Power Series (Photos)
“Let me tell you the truth, Vanessa and I broke up in 2018 December. Guys knew about our breakup 8 months after. To people, it was too soon but to us, it took time. I mean almost a year is not a short time to move on,” he intimated.
“I am happy she found love in Rotimi. I was waiting for the day she will be happy. You know when it comes to love one person moves on after a breakup and one remains and so when I saw she has moved on, in all honesty, I was happy,” he added.
On the topic of the songstress’s new found love, Olu Rotimi Akinosho, Jux said he is a fan of Power, an American show in which he plays Dre, a drug baron.
Read Also: Meet Juma Jux’s Alleged New Flame Following Split With Vanessa Mdee (Photos)
“I watch power a lot and I love Rotimi and the way he acts I love it. I said it in an interview before that if Vanessa finds someone, he has found a good girl because she is amazing and every man wants to be with her. I mean I have been in a relationship with her for 6 years. She is an amazing girl. I am happy for her to be honest,” he said.
Jux has moved on to a Caucasian woman, Nayika.
Vanessa and Rotimi on the other hand were house hunting on Sunday and are keeping up appearances especially on social media.
