
# Mark Bright recalls night he and Ian Wright were held at gunpoint after road rage row

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:38:58+00:00**

Author: **Mark Bright**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/mark-bright-recalls-night-ian-20821306)

Mark Bright is the former striker who went from foster care to the Premier League and Wembley cup finals.
During his six years with Crystal Palace , he forged one of English football's deadliest double acts with Ian Wright and helped the London club to the FA Cup final in 1990.
Bright, who started his professional at Port Vale, also enjoyed spells at Leicester , Sheffield Wednesday and Charlton before his retirement at the end of the 1998-1999 season.
He has since returned to Palace, where he currently acts as an academy coach and a trusted lieutenant of owner Steve Parish.
As part of his new autobiography, which traces his journey from loving foster homes to the big time, Bright details the night a heated roadside argument led to an angry driver pulling a gun on him and teammate Wright.
Before Christmas, the players got the chance to relax at a party thrown by Richard Branson’s Virgin Atlantic company, who were sponsoring our shirts.
Mitchell Thomas, who was playing for Tottenham and was a big friend of Ian Wright, came along as well.
He volunteered to be the driver with Ian, Geoff Thomas and me as the passengers.
It was late as we drove back through pretty deserted streets to my flat.
At some traffic lights we pulled up alongside a car and we could see a man and a woman having some kind of argument.
The guy in the other car suddenly looked across and wound his window down. “What are you looking at?” he shouted at us.
This was a red rag to a bull for Wrighty. “What you looking at then?” Ian screamed back at him and, just for good measure, as we pulled away he stuck a finger up at the guy.
We were still in high spirits, but the laughter soon disappeared when I spotted the other guy was obviously following us.
Wrighty wasn’t impressed. “Mitch, pull over,” he said. “What’s he going to do? There’s four of us.”
Mitchell dutifully pulled over so the three passengers could get out to confront the guy.
“What are you going to do about it?” Wrighty smirked, but the guy didn’t blink.
He bent down behind the door of his car, pulled out a gun and pointed the thing straight at us.
“I’m going to count to five,” said our friend with the gun. “And if you lot don’t get in your car and f off, I’m going to start shooting. One... two...”
We were all in shock as poor old Mitch drove as fast as he could to my flat. The bloke must have been a maniac to do what he did, and we all knew maniacs don’t operate in the same way that normal people do.
When we got to my flat, we virtually fell out of the car because we were desperate to get inside.
The reality was, we s*** our pants.
