
# Teen with Down syndrome forced to attend 'degrading' DWP work assessments

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:20:26+00:00**

Author: **Mike Brown**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/disabled-teen-down-syndrome-forced-20790828)

A disabled teenager with Down syndrome was forced to attend 'degrading' work assessments by the Department of Work and Pensions.
Declan Kemp, 19, has Down syndrome, cerebral palsy, a hole in his heart and suffers from scoliosis of the spine - meaning he is permanently confined to a wheelchair.
But his family claim the DWP made him attend an assessment in person to check is ability to work.
Declan already receives Personal Independence Payment (PIP), which is intended to help adults with the extra costs of living with a long-term health condition or a disability.
But when his family, from Teesside, applied for Universal Credit he was made to attend Stockton Job Centre to undergo a work capability assessment, despite his long term disabilities, reports Teesside Live.
Described by his loving family as a "beautiful and happy person", Declan struggled through one appointment - falling asleep after around 15 minutes, they said.
 
His family say they had shown Job Centre staff his health passport which list his conditions, and asked for a home visit.
Despite this, he was summoned again to the Job Centre, where staff went through the same information, his family claim.
Declan's sister and carer Sue, 41, said: "Basically, Declan's unable to work. He struggles with physical movements because of his disabilities.
"He left Abbey Hill school in July, and he goes to a day centre three times a week, and sometimes stays in respite care.
"My mam made a claim for Universal Credit for him, and was told he had to go for an assessment - even though he already gets PIP, so they know the conditions he has.
"The first appointment was over an hour, and he was asleep after 15 minutes. We had to go through everything as he can't speak for himself.
 
"But then they had to go through another assessment - and we were told he needed a sick note from the doctor, to prove he can't work.
"Why does he have to prove again that he is disabled?"
Sue said that Declan's mum Joan, who lives with the teen on Stockton's Tilery estate, had to get another sick note as the original one ran out - and was told to fill in the Universal Credit journal, an online record of what claimants are doing to find work.
"Obviously Declan can't do that, and my mam can't use the computer," continued Sue.
"She's been completely stressed, and he's picked up on that now and suffered because of it.
"What's happened to Declan shouldn't have happened - we need to get the message out that the system just didn't work.
"The way he has been treated is completely unnecessary, and degrading."
Sue said that Declan's mum Joan, who lives with the teen on Stockton's Tilery estate, had to get another sick note as the original one ran out - and was told to fill in the Universal Credit journal, an online record of what claimants are doing to find work.
"Obviously Declan can't do that, and my mam can't use the computer," continued Sue.
"She's been completely stressed, and he's picked up on that now and suffered because of it.
"What's happened to Declan shouldn't have happened - we need to get the message out that the system just didn't work.
"The way he has been treated is completely unnecessary and degrading."
A DWP spokesperson said: " We are sorry that Mr Kemp's claim was not handled correctly and have apologised to his mother for any distress caused.
"There was no delay in the processing of his Universal Credit and we will make sure home visits are put in place in future.”
