
# France: Two Schools Set on Fire and Police Attacked as Mobs of 30 Riot

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:05:28+00:00**

Author: **Chris Tomlinson**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2019/11/03/france-two-schools-set-fire-police-attacked-mobs-riot/)

The night’s incidents started at around 9:30 pm on Thursday when several fires were reported in a derelict building near Vallerey Square and other fires at an abandoned garage in the Devèze district of Béziers, broadcaster BFMTV reports.
Once police arrived on the scene, a group of people attacked them with firecrackers and rocks. But with the protection of the police, firefighters were able to get the first fires under control.
An hour later, at around 10:30 pm, a fire was reported at the Maurice Et Katia Krafft middle school. When police and firefighters arrived on the scene, they were again attacked by a group of up to 30 people armed with rocks, fireworks, and other projectiles. Police say the attackers had covered their faces to avoid identification.
After police reinforcements arrived, firefighters were able to tackle the blaze. A source told BMFTV that the main damage included “broken windows” and that “a fire was started in the gym and two adjoining rooms”.
However, more considerable damage was caused to the nearby Tamaris primary school, some three minutes’ walk away. “The Tamaris school was severely damaged by fire. Several rooms and classrooms are completely destroyed,” says the source. “The fumes spread in almost the entire establishment, resulting in all the classrooms becoming blackened from smoke.”
