
# Manchester United Undone By Familiar Problems Once Again

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Sam Pilger**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/sampilger/2019/11/04/manchester-united-undone-by-familiar-problems-once-again/)

“You have to say it was a bit of magic that won the game.”This was the verdict of the Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer after he had seen his side lose 1-0 to Bournemouth at the weekend.
The magic he was referring to was not a piece of skill comparable to Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo, but instead a rather mundane goal from Josh King.
The Bournemouth striker had taken advantage of a static United defence to lob the ball over Aaron Wan-Bissaka and volley home from only a few yards for what would be the only goal of the game at the Vitality stadium.
It was a good goal, but not great, and certainly not a piece of magic.
But it was in Solskjaer’s interest to deflect attention from his own side’s horribly disappointing performance.
It was a nice try, but nothing could disguise how poor United had been as they fell to their fourth league defeat to leave them tenth in the table, their lowest position at this stage of the season since 1986.
This has put United a barely believable 18 points behind the leaders Liverpool, 10 points from the top four, and just five points above the relegation zone.
This defeat on the south coast also brought an abrupt end to United’s mini revival, which had seen them win their three previous games in three different competitions.
United had been putting off the inevitable in that run, for the inherent weaknesses in this side had not been solved, only temporarily covered up.
This is a side that simply doesn’t score enough goals, having only netted more than once in a game on two occasions in the league so far this season.
And they also always looks like conceding a goal too, and have only kept two clean sheets in 11 league games this season.
To give United any hope of victory it was essential they went ahead at Bournemouth, to help lure out their opponents and create vital space in behind them.
But once United had gone behind to King’s goal in the first half they looked bereft of ideas and incapable of troubling Bournemouth’s compact defence.
Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial, who both had largely ineffective games, need to be able to charge in to space, which only evaporated here.
The brutal truth is United do not have the tools to unlock teams who sit back and invite them on to them.
Whereas Manchester City have Kevin De Bruyne, David Silva and Bernando Silva, United have no one.
Their stable of playmakers makes for sorry reading, boasting only Andreas Pereira, who has just one goal and two assists in his entire Premier League career, Jesse Lingard, who has yet to register a goal or assist in 2019, and Juan Mata, a truly wonderful player at his peak, but one who now appears beyond that, and too slow to still make an impact.
Lingard is so shorn of confidence that when he had a clear sight of goal inside the penalty area in added time and the chance to grab an equaliser he hesitated and attempted to swap the ball from his right to his left foot, only to lose the chance.
Last summer it was suggested United’s creativity from midfield was far too reliant on Paul Pogba, and if he was to get injured United would be in trouble, and so it has proved without the Frenchman.
The decision not to add more innovation and verve to United’s midfield during the summer window continues to look worse with each passing week.
While Liverpool and Manchester City also fell behind 1-0 at the weekend, there was always a sense they would both recover, which they did, but when United fell behind there was only nerves, anxiety and of course no goals.
Since his permanent appointment in March Solskjaer has failed to win consecutive games in the Premier League.
And yet after the game the Norwegian still spoke about his desire to challenge for a place in the top four this season, which for the moment, appears a distant dream.
