
# Inventing Impact—Decisive Moments Of Under 30 Visionaries

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **The Macallan Contributor**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/themacallan/2019/11/06/inventing-impactdecisive-moments-of-under-30-vision/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2807260488&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

While working for a foundation in San Diego focused on self-sufficiency and farming, Paley was stunned to learn that one in six people in the city were hungry. “Given that 40% of the food in this country ends up in a landfill, I felt like there had to be a way to resolve these two issues together,” she says. 
As she researched the social enterprise kitchens that were working to tackle these issues, she met Chuck Samuelson, a retired restaurateur who had just launched Kitchens for Good, the first kitchen of its kind in San Diego. “It seemed so ripe and needed in San Diego, so a few months later I called him up and said ‘I’m done researching this, I want to actually do it!’” 
Paley now helps run Kitchens for Good, a social enterprise catering company that trains 100 jobless people with barriers to employment like a prison record, rescues 70,000 pounds of food waste and prepares 250,000 free meals for the homeless and hungry each year.
Amend was running a creative agency for mission-driven brands when he first began thinking about the internet’s impact on the environment. After learning that the internet pollutes more than the aviation industry he switched all of his clients’ websites to solar-powered hosting, providing them with badges to showcase the change. 
Calls from executives at major nonprofits soon followed, prompting Amend and his team to apply for the prestigious Echoing Green Fellowship in 2016. When they were named finalists, a light switched on for Amend, who realized how much potential the program could have and spun it off from the agency to become his full-time focus. “We saw how wide the reach of this program could be and decided to jump into it head first.”
Today, the Web Neutral Project helps hundreds of companies each year neutralize their digital carbon footprint through solar-powered web hosting, an antidote to the majority of data hosting centers that run on coal and fossil fuel. The company eliminates around 4,000 pounds of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere each year. 
Growing up in Mississippi, Allen had long been aware of the lack of financial education in small, lower-income communities. But after spending a few years in Silicon Valley, where she’d worked as an app developer, she was especially struck by the disparity. 
On a trip back home in late 2015, she couldn’t believe how little had changed. “Most people were still relying on alternative financial services because there was only one bank in my town and people couldn’t afford their fees.”
After a year of research, she launched Capway in 2017. The fintech company provides free digital banking and financial education, offering people from underrepresented communities across the U.S. an easy way to maintain their financial health, regardless of how much money they make or where they live. 
Menezes first got the social justice itch while running TapIn.tv, the live video streaming startup that he founded in 2012. “There was this huge inequity in Silicon Valley,” he says. “People were working on big problems but they weren’t necessarily serving a lot of the U.S. population who come from marginalized, lower-income backgrounds.” 
While volunteering for SRND, a nonprofit geared toward getting more kids interested in technology, he realized he could have a much bigger impact on this issue, so when the company’s executive director asked him to come on full time in 2013, he took the leap.
With SRND, Menezes works to ensure that children from all backgrounds have coding and computer science educational opportunities so that they can play a role in shaping future technologies.
