
# Labour vow to save free TV licences for the over-75s if they win the election

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:13:35+00:00**

Author: **Ben Glaze, https://www.facebook.com/MirrorPolitics**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/free-tv-licences-over-75s-20803772)

Free TV licences for over-75s will be saved if Labour wins the general election.
Deputy Leader Tom Watson pledged to protect the benefit if Labour returns to power when voter go to the polls on December 12.
Millions of pensioners face being stripped of the vital lifeline from June after the Conservatives axed a 2017 manifesto commitment.
But Shadow Culture Secretary Mr Watson told the Mirror: “The Tory decision to scrap free TV licences for over-75s is utterly callous.
“Four in 10 older people say the TV is their main source of company, but from next year 3.7 million older people will lose their free TV licence.
 
“It’s disgraceful. Our message is clear - vote Labour to save free TV licences.”
The Conservatives promised at the 2017 election to protect the benefit for the rest of the Parliament, which had been due to run until 2022.
But the BBC had already been handed responsibility for funding the lifeline from June 2020, under a deal stitched up in 2015.
It says that continuing to fund free licences would have cost £745million - a fifth of its budget - by 2021-22.
That is equivalent to what it spends in total on BBC2, BBC3, BBC4, the BBC News Channel, and children’s stations CBBC and CBeebies.
The corporation plans to curb the benefit, meaning just 1.5 million OAPs are likely to continue receiving free licences when restrictions take effect next Spring.
From June, only over-75s receiving Pension Credit will be eligible - meaning 80% of over-75s, some 3.7 million OAPs, will have to stump up to watch their favourite shows.
The Mirror is campaigning to save the lifeline, with more than 18,000 readers backing the fight by completing coupons in the paper.
More than 600,000 have signed Age UK’s Switched Off petition calling for free licences to be preserved and the Government to take back responsibility for funding.
 
Former Prime Minister Gordon Brown and Royle Family actor Ricky Tomlinson have supported the battle.
Ricky, 80, said: “I absolutely agree with what Tom Watson’s saying.
“It’s an absolute disgrace to try and withdraw the TV licences.
“It’s all they have got, some of them depend on their television for their news, for finding out what’s going on.
“Some people are lonely, they are locked away in these little places on their own.
“It is common sense what Labour is announcing - we are supposed to look after the old aged pensioners.
“Why do we take away from the people that have got nothing in the first place?”
Mr Brown, as Chancellor, introduced free TV licences for over-75s in 1999 - meaning that for two decades the age group has been spared having to dig deep to switch on their sets.
 
Rattled PM Mr Johnson tried to head off criticism of his party’s betrayal, admitting: “This needs sorting out urgently and I’ll be talking to the BBC about how to sort that out.”
He has repeatedly tried to dodge blame for the row - and previously claimed he would “put the screws” on the BBC over free TV licences.
Speaking in August, he told the Mirror: “The BBC received a settlement that was conditional upon their paying for TV licences for the over-75s.
“They should cough up.”
Piling pressure on parties to commit to saving the benefit - currently worth £154.50 a year - Age UK Charity Director Caroline Abrahams said: “The general election is a perfect opportunity to ensure that whoever forms the next Government, they take steps to keep TV licences free for all over-75s.
“The current Government’s decision to abandon this highly-valued universal entitlement - that’s been in place for a generation - has caused real dismay, prompting approaching a million people of all ages to sign petitions.
“Many older people are especially worried and angry about this issue.
“TV is the main form of companionship for two in five over-75s and much more than a box in the corner of the room – it is a precious window on the world and often their main source of news, entertainment and company.
“We call on all the parties to include the funding of free TV licences in their pledges at this election.
“There’s no doubt that vast numbers of older people care deeply about this and are waiting eagerly to see if our politicians will stand by them in this way.”
Bectu broadcasting union boss Philippa Childs said: “An imminent general election provides the opportunity for all parties to commit to funding the over-75s TV licence as it is a welfare benefit.
“The current Government pledged to do so in 2017 yet has failed to deliver this by passing the buck.
“It is not the role of the BBC to determine who should and shouldn’t get a free licence.”
A BBC spokesman said previously: “It was the Government who decided to stop funding free TV licences for the over-75s and Parliament gave responsibility to the BBC to make a decision on the future of the scheme.
“There was no guarantee that the BBC would continue to fund free licences for the over-75s, as the Culture Secretary at the time has confirmed.
“We’ve reached the fairest decision we can in funding free TV licences for the poorest pensioners, while protecting BBC services.”
