
# Canola farmers weary, frustrated as snow hinders harvest and China ban drags on

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:36:21+00:00**

Author: **Amanda Stephenson, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/business/local-business/canola-farmers-weary-frustrated-as-snow-hinders-harvest-and-china-ban-drags-on)


        Alberta's 2019 canola crop is not only unlikely to make it to one-time top customer China this year, in some regions of the province, it's not even going to make it off the fields.
      
Alberta’s 2019 canola crop is not only unlikely to make it to one-time top customer China this year. In some regions of the province, it’s not even going to make it off the fields.
Farmers who could once count on the oilseed to be “the crop that pays the bills” have suffered a double dose of misfortune this year, as China continues to block imports of Canadian canola while wet, snowy weather on the prairies impedes harvest. According to the Alberta government’s weekly crop report, as of Oct. 29, only 71 per cent of the province’s canola crop had been harvested — though, in parts of the province that number was as low as 54 per cent.
At Andre Harpe’s farm northwest of Grande Prairie, where the county council recently declared a state of agricultural disaster due to the prematurely wintry weather, 75 per cent of the canola crop remains snowed under on the fields.
“Last week, we got four to five inches of snow, which essentially shut us down,” Harpe said. “This has never happened. I’ve talked to lots of people who say they have no memory of something like this happening. Basically, we’re going to have to come up with some innovative ways to pay our bills over the wintertime.”
While some areas of the province have been harder hit by weather than others, across Alberta, the harvest has been “long, hard and wet,” said John Guelly, who farms near Westlock and is the chair of the Alberta Canola Producers Commission.
The challenging conditions have only added to the frustration felt by canola farmers, who have been without their No. 1 market, China, for nearly eight months due to ongoing diplomatic tension with Canada. According to the Canola Council of Canada, since market access issues began in March, prices for canola have fallen approximately 10 per cent, translating into $1-billion less for the Canadian economy on an annual basis.
“Canola is the most profitable crop we have, so to be losing a market and have the depressed prices we have, and then tack on the harvest we’ve had? A lot of the fun of farming is disappearing,” Guelly said.
Earlier this week, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced China would resume accepting imports of Canadian beef and pork, two other commodities that had been blocked by China as a result of the diplomatic dispute. But while the news is positive for the agriculture industry as a whole, experts say it’s not a sign that China will resume accepting canola soon.
“For pork, it’s clear it was a question of self-interest,” said Guy Saint-Jacques, a former Canadian ambassador to China and a senior fellow with the University of Alberta’s China Institute. He added that China’s pork herd has been decimated by an outbreak of African swine fever, driving up demand for protein products in that country.
“They needed to resume importing pork from Canada and meat in general because they had exhausted supplies,” Saint-Jacques said. “I think at some point in the future, they will have to resume imports of canola. But I think we have to be very prudent when predicting when we might be back to a normal situation.”
Brian Innes, vice-president with the Canola Council of Canada, said the meat and canola situations with China have always been very different.
“There was fraud on the certificates for meat, a clear case of fraud that had to be resolved,” Innes said. “The issues around canola revolve around pests that the regulator can’t even find in our shipments. On canola, we’re talking about an issue we can’t even identify is there.”
Still, Innes said last week’s meeting in Geneva — the first face-to-face meeting between the Chinese and Canadian governments since Canada lodged a formal complaint at the World Trade Organization over canola — was positive.
“It was a good meeting … but we’re not any closer to opening the market for our canola seed,” he said.
Mike Ammeter, who farms near Sylvan Lake, said 2019 has been “a tremendous strain.”
“We’ve had other tough years, without question. We had a drought one year followed by a severe early frost and the crop didn’t make it to maturity,” Ammeter said. “But I guess weather is an understood risk to farming — we get it. When you have stuff like the China situation coming on top of it, talk about being blindsided. I don’t think anyone foresaw that.”

        astephenson@postmedia.com
      
On Twitter: @AmandaMsteph
