
# Football Fans Befuddled When it Comes to the Legality Live Streams

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:30:04+00:00**

Author: **Shabana Arif**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/football-fans-piracy-streams/)

Football fans claim not to recognise the difference between legal and illegal streams.
A recent survey of footie fans reveals that almost half of the respondents quizzed didn't acknowledge that watching matches on unofficial streams is illegal, which means they're either a bit dim, or are aware it's piracy and just don't give a hoot.
When quizzed about the legality of devices like Kodi TV boxes, it was almost a 50/50 split between those who claim to think the streams are legal, and those who are aware that they're not. Sounds like a serious case of the silly buggers to me.
Meanwhile, around a third of the 1,000 people surveyed thought that streams on social media platforms like Facebook don't fall within the realms of the legal, and just over a third are confident that using someone else's account to log in to a service and watch the footie is illegal.
The poll sample wasn't that large, and as always, you can't take for granted that people are going to be answering these questions honestly - especially when they involve fessing up to breaking the law. But if we take the respondent's answers at face value, there are some very confused football fans out there.
Interestingly, almost half of the fans said they watched matches at home, which means that piracy - even the unintentional kind - has the potential to be a pretty big issue for the Premier League. [TorrentFreak]

        Feature image credit: Unsplash
      
