
# Starbucks red cups are back today meaning the Christmas season has official begun for coffee fans

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:22:56+00:00**

Author: **Katie Brooks**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/food-drink/starbucks-red-cups-back-today-20817651)

It's officially Christmas for coffee lovers as Starbucks launches it festive red cups.
Costa Coffee has already released its Christmas line-up, and now Starbucks is joining in the festive fun with their iconic red cups.
People love the Christmas event so much that there's even a dedicated website:  countdowntoredcups.com , Hull Live reports.
With the return of the red cups also comes the Christmas menu featuring festive drinks old and new, as well as a range of food options.
Each store will also have a range of limited-edition reusable cups, each with a wintry theme, to help you do your bit for the enviroment.
New for 2019 is the Toasted Marshmallow Hot Chocolate, which you can pick up from £3.10.
All the usual suspects will be on the menu, including the Toffee Nut Latte and Eggnog Latte.
To get you in the festive mood, and fuel the Christmas shopping frenzy, look no further than the festive food range.
Tuck into a ‘Tis the Season Turkey Sandwich, Festive Feast Panini, and for dessert enjoy a Mince Pie, Christmas Tree Brownie, Twinkle and Sprinkle Caramel Cupcake or a sumptuous slice of the Christmas Bauble Chocolate Loaf Cake.
The Christmas range, including the red cups, are available for you to enjoy from November 5, 2019 until January 2, 2020.
