
# 'Pep Is Scared Of Mane!'

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:43:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/pep-guardiola-is-scared-of-sadio-mane/666713)

Following Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola's controversial remarks about Liverpool's Sadio Mane on the weekend, it has been claimed the Spanish tactician is scared of the African superstar's capabilities.

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
The Senegal international was booked for simulation in the Reds' dramatic 2-1 win over Aston Villa on Saturday afternoon, and it was not the first time he made headlines for going to ground easily.
City boss Guardiola was quick to point this out on Saturday, saying that while he feels Mane is a special player, sometimes he has been known to dive.
Former Liverpool midfielder Jamie Redknapp was taken back by the former FC Barcelona and Bayern Munich manager's remarks, and believes the Spaniard might be worried ahead of City's league encounter against Jurgen Klopp's side this coming weekend.

        
          Post Selfie’s On Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now
        
      
"Hearing Pep Guardiola mention Sadio Mane and diving was surprising," Redknapp told the Daily Mail.
"It is unusual to hear a manager say that about a rival player, but I don't think it was Guardiola trying to wind up Mane ahead of this Sunday's showdown at Anfield.
"It wasn't an attempt at mind games, or a deliberate dig. I believe Guardiola genuinely fears the threat of Mane.
"The Manchester City manager has him on his mind. He knows the 27-year-old is now Liverpool's most important player. He is Jurgen Klopp's No. 1 man, as proven on Saturday.
"In the 65th minute against Aston Villa, with the league leaders losing 1-0, Klopp took off Mohamed Salah. It was a big call, but it paid off.
"Mane made sure he got his head to the ball, even as Villa's Jonathan Kodjia was trying to get his boot to it first. What a big, brave goal."

        
          Yaya Sent Off After 10 Seconds
        
      
