
# Gameday 15: Penguins @ Bruins

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:26:39+00:00**

Author: **penguinsslaw**

Original: [The Sports Daily](https://thesportsdaily.com/2019/11/04/gameday-15-penguins-bruins-p1b1/)


        Penguins @ Bruins
      

        TD Garden | Boston, MA
      

        7:00PM Eastern | NHLN | NESN | AT&TSN-PT
      
The Penguins ship up to Boston to take on the Atlantic-Division-leading Bruins as part of a 2-game road swing down the East Coast.
The Penguins will look to right the ship after having lost a tight 2-1 contest to the Oilers in overtime on Saturday afternoon in Pittsburgh.
The Penguins got Evgeni Malkin back as the team continues to get back key players after a rash of tough luck in the injury department. They look to be without Brian Dumoulin tonight, but not due to an ailment, unless you count the birth of his family’s first child as an ailment.

        Guentzel – Crosby – Simon
      

        Galchenyuk – Malkin – Rust
      

        McCann – Bjugstad – Kahun
      

        ZAR – Blueger – Tanev
      

        Riikola – Letang
      

        Pettersson – Schultz
      

        Johnson – Marino
      

        Murray
      
Boston has had an excellent start to the season from all angles, having dropped just 1 game in regulation and collecting 22 of a possible 26 points thus far.
The play of David Pastrnak (13G+14A=27P, best in the league) has been inspiring yet again for the B’s, who lead the Atlantic Division, and are 3 points back of Washington with 3 games in hand.
Their +19 goal differential is tied for best in the league (with Vancouver). Their 3.54 G/GP is 6th best in the league, while their 2.00 GA/GP is tops.
Pastrnak’s 30+% shooting percentage and Boston’s Power Play’s 32.6% conversion rate don’t seem sustainable, but let’s not test that one out.
Good offense + good defense = good team with good record. Can confirm.

        Marchand – Bergeron – Pastrnak
      

        DeBrusk – Krejci – Heinen
      

        Bjork – Coyle – Ritchie
      

        Hughes – Kuraly – Wagner
      

        Chara – McAvoy
      

        Krug – Carlo
      

        Grzelcyk – Clifton
      

        Rask
      
Ram the B’s.
