
# How Bad Can Surgical Training Be? See These Two New Studies

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bruce Y. Lee**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brucelee/2019/11/03/how-bad-can-surgical-training-be-see-this-study/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2794341838&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

Which do you think is less likely to lead to burn out: being treated well or being treated like garbage?If you chose garbage, you are either Oscar the Grouch or have some explaining to do. A study just published in the New England Journal of Medicine reaffirmed what many people in the medical profession should know already: a lot of physicians in training continue to suffer discrimination, abuse, and harassment and this type of garbage treatment is probably contributing to burnout issues. Another study presented at the American College of Surgeons Clinical Congress in San Francisco showed that these problems go on well beyond training, suggesting deeper systems problems with the profession.
The New England Journal of Medicine study focused on surgical residents and entailed administering a survey to 7,464 of them. Nearly all (7409 or 99.3%) completed the survey. This high completion rate is not surprising since being thorough is not an uncommon trait among surgeons. Of those who had completed the survey, 2935 (39.6%) were women. The publication did not provide the breakdown of respondents by race or ethnicity.
The first author of the study was Yue-Yung Hu, M.D., M.P.H., an Assistant Profesor of Surgery at the Northwestern Feinberg School of Medicine. Other authors included Ryan J. Ellis, M.D., M.S.C.I., D. Brock Hewitt, M.D., M.P.H., Anthony D. Yang, M.D., Elaine Ooi Cheung, Ph.D., Judith T. Moskowitz, Ph.D., M.P.H., John R. Potts, III, M.D., Jo Buyske, M.D., David B. Hoyt, M.D., Thomas J. Nasca, M.D., and Karl Y. Bilimoria, M.D., M.S.C.I.
Incidentally, the residents took the survey right after they had taken the surgical board exams, maybe not the best time to complete a survey. After all, what would you most like to do after you’ve just finished answering a bunch of grueling questions? How about answering even more questions? So keep this in mind when evaluating the results. Nevertheless, this was a way to get many busy surgical residents together at one time to complete a survey.
The results revealed, surprise, surprise, that a lot of residents have been suffering gender discrimination, nearly a third (31.9%) of all those who completed the survey. That broke down to 65.1% of women and 10.0% of men. For 26.9% of women, this was the opposite of an occasional, once-in-a-blue-moon-thing, but rather at least a monthly experience.
Who was doing the discriminating? Nearly half (49.2%) of women who had experienced gender discrimination cited patients or patients’ families, 23.6% nurses or staff, and 17.6% attending surgeons. Over a quarter (28.5%) of the men reporting gender discrimination pointed towards attending surgeons as the offenders.
Racial discrimination seems to be alive and well too, or unwell for those who have to suffer through it. Of all the residents taking the survey, 16.6% had experienced racial discrimination: 18.6% of women and 15.1% of men. Keep in mind that the publication didn’t specify the races and ethnicity of the respondents. Thus, you can’t quite tell what percentage of different racial and ethnic minorities had experienced discrimination. If the demographic distribution of the respondents followed the distribution of general surgery residents found in 2008, the majority of the respondents were White, who may be less likely to experience racial discrimination in settings where they are the majority.
Racial discrimination came from different sources as well. Nearly half (47.4%) of those who had suffered racial discrimination cited patients and patients’ families as the source, 17.4% cited attending surgeons, 10.7% cited nurses and staff, and 8.2% cited other residents.
Then there were the 7.2% of residents (13.1% of women and 3.2% of men) who had experienced discrimination based on their pregnancy or childcare status. Surgical attendings were the culprits for 36.8% of these residents and other residents for 22.6%. Way to support your fellow residents.
How about a little mistreatment or maybe a lot? Nearly a third (30.2%) had experienced verbal or emotional abuse, 2.2% had experienced physical abuse, and 10.3% had suffered sexual harassment (19.9% of women and 3.9% of men.) Close to half reported experiencing at least one type of mistreatment.
Could discrimination and mistreatment possibly be contributing to burnout among surgical residents? Umm, yeah. Over a third (38.5%) of respondents had experienced burnout symptoms every week, and 4.5% had had suicidal thoughts over the previous year. Those who had suffered discrimination, abuse, or harassment at least a few times a month were 194% more likely to have had burnout symptoms than those who had had no such experiences. They were also 207% more likely to have had suicidal thoughts. Although women were 33% more likely to have experienced burnout than men, factor in the mistreatment and there was no difference between men and women. Gee, who would have thought that being treated badly would make you feel not so good.
Could all of these numbers actually be underestimates of all the garbage that’s really happening? After all, many parts of the medical profession, especially surgery, can be hierarchies with doctors fearing reprisals for complaining or raising any concerns. So, no matter how many reassurances of “your responses will be confidential” or “no one influential will see that you said this” that you may receive, you may wonder “who is really reading my answers?” Residents are especially vulnerable since their advancement depends on the oh-so-powerful letters of recommendation and the wink-wink, nudge-nudge of certain physicians. Yeah, warm and fuzzy and the medical profession don’t always go hand-in-hand.
Additionally, residents may not always even recognize when they are being discriminated against or mistreated. When you are in the middle of a culture that does not swiftly punish discrimination, mistreatment, or abuse of power, you may come to accept such behavior as status quo. Worse yet, you can believe the opposite of what people may say when they break up with you: that it’s you not them. This can be what’s called learned helplessness.
Of course, some may claim that residents or other physicians who report discrimination and mistreatment are being oversensitive or weak. Ah, but is oversensitive really the first word that you think of when thinking about physicians? After all, these are people who have managed to get through all of the poop (literally and figuratively) involved in pre-medical studies, medical school, training, and beyond. Being oversensitive about facing discrimination and mistreatment can be like being oversensitive about having your head dunked in the toilet.
Moreover, this certainly wasn’t the first study to show racial and gender discrimination in medical education and training. For example, in 2017, I covered a trio of such studies for Forbes. It also wasn’t the first study to reveal that burnout is a problem among physicians in training (or physicians in general for that matter.) For example, in a study published in JAMA last year, 45.2% of resident physicians reported experiencing burn out and 14.1% expressed career regret. To my knowledge, there haven’t been any recent studies that have shown medical training to be all about roses and unicorns for everyone.
Discrimination and mistreatment don’t seem to stop at the training level, which brings us to the second study that was presented at the American College of Surgeons Clinical Congress in San Francisco just this past week. Here is a tweet from one of the study authors:
For an abstract of the study, take a look at the October 2019 issue of the Journal of the American College of Surgeons. The authors of the study included Apoorve Nayyar, MBBS (University of Iowa), Sara Scarlet, MD, MPH (University of North Carolina, UNC), Paula D. Strassle, MSPH (UNC), Matthew Bahnson, MA (North Carolina State University), Noely C. Banos, MA, Thomas Varghese Jr MD, MS, FACS (University of Utah), Lillian M. Erdahl MD, FACS (University of Iowa), Kandace P. McGuire, MD, FACS (Virginia Commonwealth University), and Kristalyn K. Gallagher, DO, FACS, FACOS (University of North Carolina). The study entailed sending an electronic survey to members of the Association of Women Surgeons (AWS) and the American College of Surgeons (ACS) and other surgeons contacted via social media. The research team received responses from 981 surgeons with about a quarter of them sharing experiences. As you can see in the summary graphic tweeted by Dr. Erdahl above, the majority (78%) of women surgeons responding had experienced gender-based discrimination. This certainly is not surprising considering what previous studies have shown, as I had covered earlier this year for Forbes.
Ah, but that’s not all folks. The survey found that a majority of male surgeons (90%) responding did not think that gender discrimination and sexual harassment were “real issues” in the surgical profession. Huh? In fact, many expressed anger that these problems were even being highlighted and denial that these problems existed. The authors of the study used the term “aggrieved entitlement” to describe these feelings and behaviors. As they say, denial ain’t just a river in Egypt. It’s a river that seems to run deep.
Dr. Nayyar, first author of the study, explained that “our study shows the discordance between experiences of sexual harassment faces by women surgeons, and the perceptions of a faction of men surgeons who do not see sexual harassment at the workplace as a real issue, instead are inclined to believe somehow a conversation of equity, diversity and workplace civility is restricting their own career growth.”
Thus, the problem outlined by the New England Journal of Medicine study seems to be more than just a “physician training” problem but instead an overriding culture, leadership, and systems problem that needs to be fixed. Surgical residents may suffer more, given their low-on-the-totem-pole vulnerability and that they may still be relatively new to this “being treated like garbage” stuff. But the discrimination and mistreatment don’t seem to stop once training concludes. It is not as if perpetrators of such bad behaviors then say, “oh, that’s right you are a human being now,” once you’ve moved from training-status to being a full-fledged attending. Finishing training isn’t quite like leaving Gotham City and moving to Asgard. You still remain in the same kind of environment and with the same kind of people.
And these environments and people may not be eager to change. Dr. Gallagher, the senior author of the study, explained, “We found animosity towards the discussion of sexual harassment and aggrieved entitlement. This study highlights the need for awareness and continued education in our surgical communities so that we can collectively make our healthcare workplace a safe and inclusive place for all.”
You can typically tell a person’s true nature by how they treat others who are considered vulnerable. About their study, Gallagher said, “We reported experiences of gender based discrimination around pregnancy, bullying, sexual harassment, and assault. Seniority was found to be the only protective factor.” In other words, the only real way to not experience continuing discrimination and harassment was to be in a high enough position. But if discrimination prevents you from getting a high enough position, then how exactly is that supposed to happen?
There is never any excuse for discriminating against or mistreating other physicians. If you want to attempt some humor, try a good knock-knock joke instead. If you want to release some anger, play some kickball or deal with your own personal problems. There is no evidence that treating other physicians badly will make them tougher or better physicians. In fact, the New England Journal of Medicine study suggests the opposite. “Here’s your surgeon, and she or he is feeling a little burnt out,” isn’t the most comforting thing for patients to hear. Therefore, finding excuses for discrimination and mistreatment not only masks deeper problems but has an impact well beyond physicians.
Ultimately, physicians suffering discrimination, harassment, and mistreatment is a patient care issue and a health care system issue. Toxic cultures and toxic systems that keep talented physicians from reaching their potential in turn will hurt patients and society. And no one should want that type of garbage to occur.
