
# England 12-32 South Africa: Rugby World Cup final player ratings

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:04:11+00:00**

Author: **Ian Malin**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/02/england-south-africa-rugby-world-cup-final-player-ratings)


        Handré Pollard’s kicks make him the man of the match while his opposite number George Ford has an unhappy 50 minutes
      
Elliot Daly A difficult day when he was craning his neck as the aerial bombardment rained down but a tidy display. 6
Anthony Watson The Bath wing looked a danger on the odd occasion he escaped South Africa’s shackles and has improved match by match. 5
Manu Tuilagi The match-winner against the All Blacks made a couple of muscular breaks but was mainly confined to defensive duties. 6
Owen Farrell His four penalties kept England in it until the sky fell in. He tackled tirelessly but unable to exert his usual authority. 6
Jonny May The good news was he kept Cheslin Kolbe under wraps. The bad news was he never had a sight of the tryline himself. 6
George Ford Ford has been one of England’s best players in Japan but it was an unhappy ending. Was harried mercilessly by Bok back row. 5
Ben Youngs The scrum-half was unable to make any sniping runs but kicked well in the face of the ever‑present Bok back row. 5
Mako Vunipola He made some strong carries in the first half but had a less than comfortable 45 minutes in the scrums. 6
Jamie George A couple of throws at the lineouts went astray but he was strong in the loose on a difficult day for England’s front row. 6
Kyle Sinckler The prop’s third-minute collision with Itoje and Mapimpi knocked him cold. He and England could not recover. n/a
Maro Itoje Could never emulate his stellar display against the All Blacks. A good display in the set piece in trying circumstances. 6
Courtney Lawes The lock made some telling breaks when England battered away at the Boks’ tryline just before the break. 5
Tom Curry Another mature display that belied his years with a huge hit on Pollard that led to a penalty. Worked tirelessly. 6
Sam Underhill Before being replaced by Mark Wilson he made a number of thumping tackles and looked strong in rare forays with ball. 6
Billy Vunipola The blood pouring from a patched-up head wound was symbolic of heroic effort in lost cause from side’s best forward. 7
Replacements: Dan Cole (for Sinckler, 3) Hard and long shift 5, George Kruis (for Lawes, ht) Steadied lineout 6, Joe Marler (for M Vunipola, 45) Strong in scrum 6, Henry Slade (for Ford, 49) Decent contribution 6, Luke Cowan-Dickie (for George, 59) 6, Mark Wilson (for Underhill, 59) 6, Jonathan Joseph (for May, 70) n/a
Willie le Roux The full-back was very safe under any high balls that England could rain down on him. His old head cool under pressure. 6
Cheslin Kolbe The little wing hardly had a sniff of the ball. When he did showed a Jason Robinson‑esque ability to find space from nowhere. 7
Lukhanyo Am He looked very sharp and played a big part in the Mapimpi try. Like his centre partner was very strong in defence. 7
Damian de Allende Wales’s nemesis made a couple of powerful runs but was generally confined to a part in a stifling defensive effort. 6
Makazole Mapimpi However dubious the first try was, South Africa’s top try‑scorer in Japan took it superbly. Always a danger. 7
Handré Pollard Recovered from missing a second-minute penalty to convert 22 points, points that put the Boks beyond reach. 8
Faf de Klerk Was his usual effervescent self behind a dominant scrum and kicked well into places England did not want the ball to go. 7
Tendai Mtawarira The Beast was a real menace in the scrum, giving replacement Dan Cole a rocky ride. Very strong all-round display. 7
Mbongeni Mbonambi The hooker lasted only 20 minutes before he was injured in a tackle by Courtney Lawes and replaced by Malcolm Marx. n/a
Frans Malherbe The tighthead was part of a front row that for the first half helped squeeze the life out of the England pack. 7
Eben Etzebeth For an hour was a real handful for the English pack despite having treatment for a shoulder injury. Back to his best. 7
Lood de Jager The Bulls lock left the field at the start of the second quarter in great pain from a shoulder injury but the Springboks coped. 5
Siya Kolisi (capt) François Pienaar was there to see another captain in a No 6 shirt lift the Webb Ellis Cup. Led the team superbly for 64 minutes. 7
Pieter-Steph du Toit The converted lock followed his exceptional game against Wales with another brutal display, not giving Ford room to breathe. 7
Duane Vermeulen Like the two Bok locks, the No 8 had treatment for a shoulder injury in a ferocious first half and made some big carries. 7
Replacements: Malcolm Marx (for Mbonambi, 21) Big impact 7, Franco Mostert (for De Jager, 21) Shored up scrum 7, Steven Kitshoff (for Mtawarira , 44) Strong in the scrum 7, Vincent Koch (for Malherbe, 44) Powerful 7, François Louw (for Kolisi, 64) Big tackles 6, François Steyn (for Le Roux, 67) 6, Herschel Jantjies (for De Klerk, 77) n/a
