
# Gemma Collins will be 'star of the show' in Dancing On Ice Christmas special

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:20:38+00:00**

Author: **Verity Sulway, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/verity-sulway/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/gemma-collins-star-show-dancing-20790388)

Gemma Collins is set to star in a the biggest role in the Dancing On Ice Christmas special in December.
The reality star competed in the show earlier this year, where she suffered a nasty fall during one of her performances.
She also became embroiled in a bitter row with judge Jason Gardiner over his harsh criticism of her, often relating to her weight.
But Gemma, 38, is putting all that behind her and will be coming back to perform on the show's Christmas special, alongside Ray Quinn and Jake Quickenden.
This will also be a chance for Gemma to showcase her incredible new figure, after she shed three stone this year.
Her weight loss was kick started by her ice-skating, and assisted by controversial appetite-suppressing injections.
A source told The Sun : Gemma is chomping at the bit to get back on the ice as she knows it's her safe place and will take her mind off her Arg drama.
"Bosses are ready to make Gemma the star of the show again.
"She wants to be the showstopper for the Christmas special, and is proving to producers she is ready for it.
"She'll be giving a jaw-dropping performance when she returns to the rink alongside Ray Quinn and Jake Quickenden."
MirrorOnline has reached out to a representative for Gemma for comment.
Gemma was incredibly popular when she appeared on the show in January, with 1.9million fewer viewers tuning in the week after she was eliminated.
It's a particularly exciting time for The GC, who recently filmed scenes for her return to The Only Way is Essex, and also signed a whopping £1.1million contract to be the face of Poundland's new homeware range.
This will reportedly see herplugging Poundland's range of cleaning products and soft furnishings in one of the biggest ever endorsement deals the brand has signed.
Gemma, 38, is already believed to be worth around £2.7 million, and will be laughing all the way to the bank after this latest cheque cashes.
Gemma also owns two clothing stores, has brought out a Boohoo line, released a perfume, two books, and is bringing out a Christmas single this year.
