
# Chelsea to discover January transfer window fate at appeal this month

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:12:25+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/chelsea-discover-january-transfer-window-20807611)

Chelsea will have an appeal against their two-window transfer ban heard on November 20, as they seek to be able to bring in new players in January 2020.
The Blues were hit with the ban back in February after they breached transfer regulations in relation to the signing of young players, and they were unable to sign new players of any age ahead of the current season as a result.
Forward Christian Pulisic and midfielder Mateo Kovacic were added to new manager Frank Lampard's squad, but as those deals were set up before the ban was imposed then they were allowed to go through.
Chelsea were also fined 600,000 Swiss francs (around £460,000 at the time) as well as being hit with the two-window ban.
They were found to have breached both article 18 and article 19 of of FIFA's regulations on the acquisition of young players, which specifically refer to both third-party influence and the protection of minors.
FIFA's documents showed that Chelsea had committed 150 breaches of the regulations, with those breaches described as "inexcusable" by the appeals committee.
The Blues registered an initial appeal to FIFA in April, but as that was unsuccessful they were forced to sit out the summer transfer window.
They have now prepared a second appeal on the issue in a bid to be allowed to make signings in January, and will go to the Court of Arbitration for Sport later this month.
In the absence of new additions in the summer, a number of younger players have impressed in Lampard's side as they have started the season well.
Forward Tammy Abraham, attacking midfielder Mason Mount and defender Fikayo Tomori have all become regulars for the Blues, with all starting the 2-1 victory at Watford on Saturday.
