
# Sugoi! Anime fever to hit Singapore at 3-day fest with cosplayer Enako, ‘Naruto’-themed escape room

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:46:09+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Singapore**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/singapore/lifestyle/sugoi-anime-fever-to-hit-singapore-at-3-day-fest-with-cosplayer-enako-naruto-themed-escape-room/)

Konnichiwa! The biggest anime festival in Southeast Asia is returning to Singapore from Nov. 29 to Dec. 1 with a jam-packed lineup featuring celebrity cosplayers such as Japan’s Enako, a film festival, a Naruto-themed escape room, fresh merch and chances to rub shoulders with industry insiders. 
The C3 Anime Festival Asia will take over the Suntec City Convention and Exhibition Center and will also hold its annual I Love Anisong music festival, showcasing acts behind popular anime soundtracks such as Forget-me-not, the theme song for Sword Art Online: Alicization, which will be sang by singer ReoNa, as well as Little Soldier, the ending theme for 2019 anime, That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime, performed by Azusa Todokoro. 
Professional cosplayer and voice actress Enako will be in town for a meet-and-greet with fans. She’ll be joined by other famous cosplayers including Baozi & Hana (China), Hikarin (Canada), and Singapore’s very own Rithe.
For the first time ever, the festival will screen anime films such as Frame Arms Girl Movie: Kyakkya Ufufu na Wonderland, a story of a schoolgirl’s adventures with a petite autonomous robot, and concert films like Zombie Land Saga LIVE: Franchouchou Minna de Orabou IN SAGA, which centers on a supernatural idol girl group.
The festival’s exhibition hall will be buzzing with activities such as a special escape room themed after the Naruto X Boruto video game, as well as booths where visitors can snap photos with their favorite characters.
More than 10 voice artistes and producers from Japanese animation studio MAPPA and video game developer Cygames will be at the event to share industry experiences and tips.
MAPPA, which was behind well-known anime titles like Yuri On Ice, will showcase their works through an exclusive gallery where visitors can get a behind-the-scenes insight into their work.
Tickets start at S$15 can be bought online.

        
          FIND IT
        
      

        C3 Anime Festival Asia Singapore 2019
        
          
        
        Nov. 29 – Dec. 1
        
          
        
        10am – 8pm
        
          
        
        Suntec Singapore Convention and Exhibition Centre (levels 3 & 4)
      
