
# No, Tomorrow's Smash Ultimate Terry Bogard Livestream Won't Reveal Any New Fighters

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ryan Craddock**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/no_tomorrows_smash_ultimate_terry_bogard_livestream_wont_reveal_any_new_fighters)

As you may well have seen already at this point, a livestream hosted by Super Smash Bros. Ultimate director Masahiro Sakurai is set to air tomorrow. The stream will feature an in-depth look at upcoming DLC fighter, Terry Bogard.
Strangely enough, a surprising number of people have reacted to the news by saying that they hope to get - or even outright assume we will get - more news on unrevealed fighters, too. We're sorry to burst your incredibly eager bubble, but that will not be the case. Nintendo has actually made a point of explicitly stating this fact, likely hoping to avoid any disappointment.
We actually covered this in our last post on the topic, but some fans seem to be more interested in the idea of new reveals than the promised Terry breakdown so it seems pretty important to get the message across. How many times have we seen fans be upset or disappointed because something that was never promised wasn't shown in a Nintendo Direct?
Before Terry's big day tomorrow, feel free to check out our Just Who The Heck Is Terry Bogard? feature. In it, we go over the history of the character and highlight some of his key game appearances - perfect for anyone who wants to learn more about him before his Smash debut.

        We'll make sure to cover any big stories from the livestream tomorrow, so make sure to check back with us for more.
      
[via twitter.com]
