
# Review: Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz HD

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Carter**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/review-super-monkey-ball-banana-blitz-hd-569139.phtml)

I remember the day I was introduced to Super Monkey Ball on GameCube. It kind of came out of nowhere: someone shoved it in front of me and said "let's play." Eight hours later we were completely entranced, and most importantly, smiling. That's the sort of infectious happiness Monkey Ball is capable of, which is exactly why this underdog of a series was active for over a decade before slowing down.
Sega is looking to get that ball rolling again with Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz HD. It's a shame that this re-release wasn't able to put its best foot forward with the ideal source material, but Monkey Ball remains as charming as ever.

        
          Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz HD 
        
        (PC, PS4, Switch [reviewed], Xbox One)
        
          
          Developer: Sega / RGG Studio
          
          Publisher: Sega
          
          Released: October 29, 2019
          
          MSRP: $39.99
        
      
I'm happy to see Monkey Ball back in any form, and hope Sega keeps this series alive. The gist: Marble Madness meets monkeys, with more speed. How can anyone not love that premise?
It's beauty through simplicity. You roll around pre-build courses avoiding hazards, trying not to roll off the course, collecting bananas and reaching a goal line. A life system and banana points dictate how well you're doing, with an equal emphasis on speed and pickup accuracy. Every so often you'll face down a boss (a few of which are mere formalities) and bonk a weak point.
The formula, much like the "HD" bit of the moniker, hasn't been too touched-up. I went back and looked at the GameCube edition for comparison, and while you can easily tell the difference between the original release and the modern day version (mostly color saturation), a lot of the same issues bleed through, like halfhearted cutscenes and a lack of detail in the framing of the campaign and the UI. Simple gameplay is one thing, simplicity everywhere else can be draining.
