
# Emma Watson Coins New Term For Singlehood, Receives Mixed Reactions

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Yimin Huang**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407212/Emma-Watson-Coins-New-Term-For-Singlehood-Receives-Mixed-Reactions/)

In a recent interview with British Vogue, Emma Watson opened up about her own insecurities in regards to approaching 30. While the actress used to not understand why people would “make…a big fuss” about turning 30, until she was in the same straits, as revealed in the interview. She admitted to feeling “anxious” when she turned 29, and then experiencing the “subliminal messaging” that surrounded her. The messages included the doubts that come to those who have not managed to secure a husband, home and career path by age 30. However, now Watson claims she is happy single. While she never used to believe the “happy single” mindset, calling it “totally spiel,” she is now finally happy in her singlehood. She also coined a new term for it, calling it “being self-partnered.” While many people praised her for the positive term on singlehood, others felt that the label was forced. The term quickly received mixed reactions on Twitter. One user states he fails to understand why everyone needs to “have a special label.” Another calls the term redundant and somehow implying that singlehood itself is a negative label when it should be whatever one makes it. Advertisement Advertisement Others celebrated the term saying love will find one when one “stops looking” and that the “stigma” of being single needs to end. Meanwhile, a user hilariously points out that the new label is a great term “for masturbation.”
