
# Saskatchewan Roughriders' A.C. Leonard honoured for strong showing

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:19:26+00:00**

Author: **Regina Leader-Post**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/sports/football/cfl/saskatchewan-roughriders/saskatchewan-roughriders-a-c-leonard-honoured-for-strong-showing)

Saskatchewan Roughriders defensive end A.C. Leonard has been named one of the CFL’s Top Performers of the Week.
Leonard was recognized for registering six tackles — including three for a loss — along with two sacks, a forced fumble and a fumble recovery in Saturday’s 23-13 victory over the visiting Edmonton Eskimos.
The victory gave Saskatchewan a 13-5 record and first place in the West Division. The Roughriders will play host to the Calgary Stampeders or Winnipeg Blue Bombers in the West final on Nov. 17.
The other Top Performers were Hamilton Tiger-Cats running back Cameron Marshall and Montreal Alouettes linebacker D.J. Lalama.
• • •
The third annual MJHL/SJHL Showcase is to be held Jan. 21 and 22 at the Co-operators Centre.
Three teams from each league — two under-20 squads and one under-18 unit — will be formed. Coaches from the respective leagues will make the selections.
• • •
The Elite A/AA Ringette Tournament was held in Regina on the weekend.
The winning teams were Alberta Zone 2 (16AA division), Eastman Heat (19A), Calgary Blade (19AA) and University of Manitoba Rapid (open A).
In the latter division, the Buffalo Plains Grit earned the silver medal. The Regina Jetts were the bronze medallists.
 
