
# Paul Pogba sets date for Man Utd comeback and opens up on injury problem

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:31:31+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/paul-pogba-sets-date-man-20802839)

Paul Pogba has revealed he is still at least two weeks away from returning to Manchester United training.
Midfield superstar Pogba has missed the Red Devils' last seven fixtures as he attempts to recover from an ankle injury - which also kept him out for three matches earlier this season.
The France international is still in plaster, which he showed off on French TV, with manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer admitting that he was unlikely to return to action until December.
“I don’t think we’ll see him before December. He’ll be out for a while,” the United manager said. “He needs time to fully recover so I don’t think he will be back before maybe Sheffield United after the international break but probably December before you can see him.
“I’m not a doctor but there is an injury there that needs healing. There’s no use talking about who’s not going to be here for a long time because he’s not going to come on the pitch and help us."
Pogba added more detail to RMC Sport : "I will still be under plaster for ten days. After, I still have two weeks of rehabilitation.
"It's not easy to see my teammates go to training or on the field, but I have to take the time to come back."
United suffered a fourth Premier League defeat of the season on Saturday as Joshua King's strike handed Bournemouth a 1-0 victory at the Vitality Stadium.
Pogba didn't travel to the south coast but appeared to follow the game at home - after the match he Facetimed his brother Matias live on France TV.
"I’m gutted," Pogba said.
"To see the team lose without being able to play is the worst. I would like to be back to help them but the most important thing is to heal."
