
# October jobs’ numbers speak volumes on impeachment

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Cheryl K. Chumley**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/1/october-jobs-numbers-speak-volumes-impeachment/)


        ANALYSIS/OPINION:
      
America’s economy saw the addition of 128,000 jobs this past October, a figure that surpassed expectations of 75,000. And unemployment came in at 3.6%. And all the Democrats went — oh crap.
This is why impeach, impeach, impeach is such a must-be, must-have, must-do for the left.
Even the normal spinmeisters in the media can’t spin away the positives of the President Donald Trump economy.
“The U.S. added 128,000 jobs in October, topping dour forecasts,” CNN Business wrote, in a headline above a story that went so far as to clarify, truthfully, why the unemployment rate rose a bit in recent weeks.
“[T]he unemployment rate rose slightly to 3.6&, but it was for good reason: 325,000 Americans started looking for work,” CNN Business reported.
What? No crowing about a rising unemployment rate? No squawking of this depressed and depressing Trump economy?
“Overall,” the outlet went on, “the report was far stronger than expected, beating economists’ forecasts for a gain in 89,000 jobs.”
NBC News, meanwhile, put the good news this way: “Economy added 128,000 jobs in October, beating expectations of 75,000.”
Where’s the snark, guys?
Where’s the bark?
From the Los Angeles Times: “U.S. employers added a solid 128,000 jobs in October.”
From ABC: “U.S. adds a higher than expected 128,000 jobs in October.”
From Bloomberg: “U.S. Hiring Resilient With 128,000 Gain, Validating Fed Pause.”
Of course, there was still this, from The Washington Post — Old Reliable on the Ding Trump Front: “U.S. economy added 128,000 jobs in October, despite the GM strike. The jobless rate ticked up to 3.6 percent.”
But that’s predictable.
There always has to be one, right?
Fact is, the economy’s chugging — it’s been chugging, since exit, stage left, Barack Obama days — and contrary to what Democrats would like believed, it’s only on a steady path to continue chugging.
So what’s a desperate campaigner of the left to do?
Climb aboard the impeachment train. Choo, choo, that’s what the left’s got to chug into 2020.
“Public’s 2019 Priorities: Economy, Health Care, Education and Security All Near Top of List,” Pew Research Center wrote in January.
Before that, it was this from Gallup, in 2018: “Healthcare, the economy and immigration top a list of issues that voters consider important to their vote for Congress.”
Poll Democrats by themselves, though, and the priorities shift a bit.
FiveThirtyEight, in a September survey that asked, “What Issues Should The 2020 Democratic Candidates Be Talking About?” — found: “Democrats are most concerned about defeating President Trump — nearly 40 percent of respondents said this was their top issue. For reference, the next-most-common top issue — health care — was picked by just 10 percent voters.”
That means Democrats care more about booting Trump than keeping an economy that’s obviously working well for the country.
Impeach, impeach, impeach.
The better the economy booms, the more positive the job numbers turn, the louder, wilder, crazier and frantic the impeachment calls will grow.

          • Cheryl Chumley can be reached at cchumley@washingtontimes.com or on Twitter, @ckchumley.
        

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
