
# Sturgeon demands drug powers for Scotland in future minority government deal

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Craig Paton**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/sturgeon-demands-drug-powers-scotland-20812396)

Handing over control of Scotland’s drugs policy is essential if the SNP is to support any minority government, Nicola Sturgeon said yesterday.
Scotland’s First Minister has said powers over drug legislation will be a “key issue” of an post-election agreements, adding that, in the absence of Scottish independence, legal powers should be devolved to Holyrood.
Her comments came after a report from the Scottish Affairs Committee at Westminster was released yesterday – following a Record campaign to update our drug laws.
Following a comprehensive inquiry into drugs misuse in Scotland, the committee recommended the possession of drugs for personal use be decriminalised, as well as the institution of safer consumption facilities – one of which the Scottish Government has been attempting to create in Glasgow.
Drugs deaths claimed the lives of 1187 people in Scotland in 2018, leading several politicians to call for a more health-based approach to addiction.
As she hit the campaign trail in Cambuslang, Sturgeon said: “I think there is a realisation that this is a public health emergency we face.
“The Scottish Government has powers and resources and it’s our responsibility to use those effectively.
“But I think there’s a growing consensus that we could do more and be more effective if some of the powers currently held at Westminster were devolved here.
“That will be a key issue in any post-election discussion, whatever the parliamentary arithmetic might be.”
Sturgeon said she did not want to commit herself to providing more funding for drugs treatment programmes in the next Scottish budget due to a delay to the Westminster Budget, meaning the amount of money in the block grant to Scotland would be unclear.
She said: “I announced additional money for drug treatment services in the Programme for Government in September, which is important.
“I’m not going to get into details about a budget just now, because it would be inappropriate to do so.
“However, the drugs emergency and the health service will always be at the forefront of any budget considerations of the Scottish Government.”
