
# Trump booed for second time at sporting event

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Agencies**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/news/world/trump-booed-for-second-time-at-sporting-event/articleshow/71881471.cms)

Loud jeers rung out when US president walked in to watch UFC fight in NY’s Madison SquareNEW YORK US President Donald Trump was loudly booed for the second time in a week at a sporting event as he attended a UFC fight in New York. Trump, wearing a dark suit and a red tie, pumped his fist and waved at the crowd as he walked into the city's iconic Madison Square Garden arena on Saturday night. There was no repeat of the loud chants of “lock him up” that greeted Trump when he attended a World Series baseball game last weekend, but loud jeers rung out. Many mixed martial arts fans also clapped and cheered as Trump took his seat just 15 feet from the cage where the UFC was set to award the ‘BMF’ belt. Several dozen protesters carrying placards with slogans such as “Trump/Pence Out Now!” and “Headlock Him Up” demonstrated outside the 20,000-seat venue as Trump arrived for the pay-per-view spectacle. The president, 73, looked on in concern as lightweight Kevin Lee delivered a vicious left kick to rival Gregor Gillespie’s face during the first bout on the main card. The contact drew loud gasps from the capacity crowd as they watched the slow-motion replay of his face being squished.
Anti-Trump protesters outside the Maidson Square Garden
Smugglers cut through Trump signature border wall?Trump brushed off a report of smugglers cutting through his signature wall on the Mexican border, saying it can be “easily fixed.” “We have a very powerful wall. But no matter how powerful, you can cut through anything, in all fairness,” Trump told reporters in Washington prior to his departure for New York. The Washington Post reported Saturday, citing unnamed US agents and officials, that smuggling gangs have used readily available commercial power tools to cut through the wall, creating gaps that people and drugs can be moved through.
