
# Dua Lipa dazzles on red carpet at MTV Europe Music Awards

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:09:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/magazine/entertainment/2019/11/03/news/dua-lipa-dazzles-in-daring-dress-at-mtv-europe-music-awards-1755343/)

Dua Lipa turned heads with a daring outfit that showed off her suspenders at the MTV Europe Music Awards.
The New Rules singer looked sensational in the form-fitting black dress, complete with a leather corset worn on the outside and a risque thigh split that gave a glimpse of her suspenders.
The star wore her hair back in a tight bun.
As Lipa, who is performing her new single Don’t Start Now at the event, walked the carpet, members of the crowd – some holding banners – chanted her name.
She said: “I’m really, really excited. I feel like the nerves are really going to kick in the second I have done this and I get to the task of zoning in to my performance.
“I’m really, really looking forward to it.”
She said of her upcoming album: “It is quite nostalgic and has disco elements but I wanted to sound fresh and new.”
She added that she was “experimenting”.
Nicole Scherzinger was also among the stand-outs on the red carpet in Seville, Spain.
The former Pussycat Doll showed off her figure in a short, tight, sparkly red dress.
She wore her long dark hair loose over her shoulders and added simple heels to complete her look.
Halsey wore a floral mini-dress seemingly made up of different fabrics. The skirt was short, but had a long section hanging down to one of Halsey’s ankles.
Singer Ava Max added some sparkle in a short sequinned jacket, while Mabel showed off her curves in black lace.
Sofia Reyes looked stunning in a short black dress with eye-catching black and white sleeves, with her hair pulled back in a ponytail.
Rapper Justina Valentine commanded attention in her racy outfit, which appeared to consist of underwear covered by a sheer skirt.
The fashion world was also represented on the carpet, with Joan Smalls and Leomie Anderson both sporting show-stopping outfits.
The awards are being held at the FIBES Conference and Exhibition Centre.
