
# Tata Harrier, Nexon, Hexa discounts for November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rivan RS**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/tata-harrier-nexon-hexa-discounts-for-november-2019-414745)

For the month of November 2019, Tata dealers are offering significant benefits and discounts on a large selection of the brand’s range.
Despite registering sizable growth in terms of sales during the month of October – on the back of special-edition models like the Harrier Dark and Nexon Kraz, and numerous festive season discounts and schemes – Tata Motors’ year-on-year (YoY) sales report tells another story. The brand bettered September sales figures by 61 percent during October 2019 (13,169 units), though this number still falls short of the 18,290 units Tata sold in October last year.
In order to continue to post positive sales during this month, Tata dealers across India have been authorised to offer cash discounts, exchange benefits and other schemes across a large selection of the brand’s range. Here’s how much you could save this month on your new Tata car or SUV:
Save up to Rs 1.1 lakhThe Hexa is currently the largest offering in Tata’s passenger vehicle line-up, but it will be discontinued in the coming months, before the April 2020 deadline for BS6 emission norms kicks in. Offered in six- and seven-seat configurations, the Tata Hexa comes with a 2.2-litre diesel engine (making 150hp/320Nm in the entry level variant and 156hp/400Nm in all higher trims) that gets manual and torque convertor automatic gearbox options. The rugged crossover, which is well-liked for its ride quality and offers good long-distance comfort, now comes with total benefits worth Rs 1.1 lakh, including cash discounts, exchange bonuses and corporate discounts.
Save up to Rs 75,000The venerable Safari Storme is another one of Tata’s models to face the axe in the coming months. In order to avoid having a large backlog of unsold stock before the Safari is discontinued; dealers are now offering cash discounts, an exchange bonus and corporate discounts amounting to Rs 75,000. While the diesel engine, manual gearboxes and optional four-wheel-drive system are shared with the Hexa, the Safari Storme does not get an automatic gearbox option. It feels decidedly last-gen now, in comparison to new competition, but it will still appeal to buyers who value sheer size, a roomy cabin and good ride quality.
Save up to Rs 70,000Even though there is an increasing level of competition in its segment from new entrants, like the Kia Seltos and MG Hector, the Tata Harrier has found a decent amount of takers. Its sales may suffer due to a lack of an automatic option, but the Harrier still boasts impressive ride quality, eye-catching looks and a rugged feel. The SUV, which is available with a sole 140hp, 2.0-litre diesel engine mated to a 6-speed manual, is now on offer with a large exchange bonus and corporate discounts totalling Rs 70,000.
Save up to Rs 70,000Despite being a solid and competent hatchback, the Tata Bolt hasn’t made a mark on the sales charts. Like other Tata cars, the Bolt is known for its roomy cabin and good ride quality. Both models – the 90hp, 1.2-litre turbo-petrol and the 75hp, 1.3-litre diesel – are now available with a cash discount of up to Rs 70,000.
Save up to Rs 70,000Like its hatchback counterpart, the Bolt, the Tata Zest offers excellent value for money and comfort. While the compact sedan comes with the same turbo-petrol and diesel engine options as the Bolt, there’s an AMT automatic option on the latter engine. For November, Tata dealers are offering a Rs 70,000 cash discount on all versions of the Zest.
Save up to Rs 62,000Tata’s smaller compact sedan sells decently well, despite competition from the likes of the Maruti Suzuki Dzire, Honda Amaze and Ford Aspire. Now available with total benefits of up to Rs 62,000 (including cash discount, exchange bonus and a sizable corporate discount), the Tigor is on offer with an 85hp, 1.2-litre petrol engine and a 75hp, 1.05-litre diesel engine; both get a 5-speed manual as standard, though the former also gets an AMT option. For its price, the Tigor is a good value for money buy.
Save up to Rs 52,500In the face of increasing competition from the Hyundai Venue and Mahindra XUV300, Tata’s compact SUV can now be had with benefits amounting to Rs 52,500. The 110hp, 1.2-litre turbo-petrol model has a slightly lower rate of discount, with the 110hp, 1.5-litre diesel model commanding a higher rate. Both engine options come with 6-speed manual and AMT gearbox options. Striking to look at, comfortable to be in and leading its class in terms of ride quality, the Nexon is quite an attractive buy.
Save up to Rs 45,000Tata’s answer to the Hyundai Santro, Maruti Suzuki Celerio and Datsun Go comes with a very competitive price tag, especially considering the upmarket cabin area and features on offer. The Tiago has the same petrol-manual, petrol-AMT and diesel-manual powertrain combinations as its compact sedan counterpart, the Tigor. The petrol versions get a slightly smaller discount overall as Tata is keen to sell as many units of the 1.05-litre diesel model before the engine is discontinued in the run up to the BS6 emissions deadline.

        
          Disclaimer: Discounts vary from city to city. Please check with your local dealer for exact discounts, which may not match figures quoted here.
        
      
