
# Barcelona vs Slavia Prague: Predicted XI for the Champions League rematch

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:09:55+00:00**

Author: **Nishant Narayanan**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/05/barcelona-vs-slavia-prague-predicted-xi-champions-league-rematch/)

Blaugrana have managed to tally seven points from their three Champions League matches, which puts them at the very top of Group F and a win at Camp Nou on Tuesday will put them at a very comfortable spot above the other two contenders in the group, Inter Milan and Borussia Dortmund, with both teams trailing 3 points behind the Spanish champions.
In the team’s previous encounter in Czech Republic, Valverde’s side managed to clinch a 2-1 victory with the help of an own goal from Peter Olayinka. The performance, however, was one of the poorest of the season.
Barcelona will look to continue their Champions League winning form despite their domestic blunders. Valverde needs to re-evaluate his lineup with Luis Suarez picking up a calf injury against Levante and Samuel Umtiti given medical clearance from his knee issues. He has picked 18 players for the Champions League group stage game-
Ter Stegen, N. Semedo, Piqué, I. Rakitic, Sergio, Messi, O. Dembélé, Neto, Lenglet, Griezmann, Jordi Alba, Aleñá, S. Roberto, F. De Jong, Vidal, Umtiti, C. Pérez and Ansu Fati.
Out for tactical reasons are Todibo, Arthur, M. Wague and Junior, and with that in mind, let us look at the potential starting eleven.
The German International did not have a good time in Valencia on the weekend where the team conceded three goals in seven minutes. Ter Stegen has been the savior for Barcelona on many occasions this season and will continue to perform between the sticks as he continues his ongoing battle with Manuel Neuer for the national team spot.
Jordi Alba was not featured in the match against Levante despite being on the bench for the entire game. Many fans were furious with Valverde’s decision to play Semedo on the left, which saw Roberto featured on the right where the Spaniard had a dreadful performance, which in turn means that it is very likely that we will see Alba return.
Lenglet struggled in the second half against Levante, with the French international making many defensive blunders that lead to Levante capitalizing on them. We will see Valverde stick with the same central duo, only hoping for a better result this time. But with Umtiti returning from his knee injury, it won’t be surprising to see Valverde swap things around in the back.
The 32-year-old Spaniard had a terrible performance against Levante where a poor clearance from him led to the equalizer which gave motion to the goals following. He will now look to redeem himself and play the central role in Barca’s defense along with Lenglet.
Semedo was one of the positive players in the previous match as the Portuguese made many runs down the flank and had great link-up plays with Griezmann which saw him win a penalty which in turn had Barcelona leading at the end of the first half. Semedo will most likely be featured in his preferred Right-back position against  Slavia Prague.
Busquets did not start the previous match but is favored to do so against Slavia as Valverde has hopefully realized the quality that Busquets provides when controlling the game and possession, and how crucial it is for the squad.
De Jong was featured as a defensive midfielder against Levante, where the Dutchman displayed his talent at controlling the pace of the game during the first half. He did struggle in the second but still manage to show glimpses of his skillset.
Vidal will look to redeem himself in front of the Blaugrana Fans on Tuesday as he failed to influence the previous match with his mediocre performance. Vidal performance is a coin flip and only time will tell which side we see against Slavia Prague.
Arthur was a starter in Valencia but will not be favored this time, while Ivan Rakitic is not preferred by Valverde and is unlikely to be given a starting opportunity. Youngster Carles Alena and Spaniard S. Roberto will both be available for Valverde as an option in the Midfield.
Antoine Griezmann could finally get a chance to play as a Poacher again in place of Suarez, though we did see Greizmann play on the wings despite Suarez’s early substitution in the La Liga defeat. This will be a perfect opportunity for the French international to link-up with Messi and create a bond.
The Argentine scored a perfect penalty and once again showcased his class during the weekend. The Club’s Captain will look to bounce back and focus on the Champions League where he has only managed to score once in three matches.
With Suarez injured for the match, Valverde has options to alter his attacking trio with both Ansu Fati and Carles Perez as a viable candidate, although Ousmane Dembele was left out during the match against Levante and could be seen joining Messi and Greizmann in the attack.
What are your predictions for the Champions League draw on Tuesday?
