
# Is There Any (After)Life Left in the Zombie Comedy Movie?

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:00:31+00:00**

Author: **Tom Beasley**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/is-there-any-afterlife-left-in-the-zombie-comedy-movie/)

There's a real irony to the fact we can't get rid of zombie comedies. No matter how many critical hatchet blows hack away at the limbs of the genre, it keeps shambling back, determined to consume the brains and the wallets of any movie fan unfortunate enough to be in its path. Little Monsters, in which Lupita Nyong'o plays the kind-hearted kindergarten teacher on a nightmare field trip, is on the verge of showing up in British cinemas after screening at the BFI London Film Festival, while the decade-later sequel Zombieland: Double Tap is still available in multiplexes all over the world.
Aside from those two movies, this year alone has yielded Jim Jarmusch's uber-snarky The Dead Don't Die, the critically adored Japanese film One Cut of the Dead and low-budget British zomcom Shed of the Dead. If you reach very slightly into the tail end of 2018, there's also John McPhail's festive zombie musical Anna and the Apocalypse. Zombie comedies are evidently having a real moment, but why? And is there anything new going on in the genre?
This year's zomcoms have, for the most part, been a little disappointing. The Dead Don't Die, in which Bill Murray and Adam Driver are cops dealing with a zombie invasion in their small town, disappeared up its own rear end in an onslaught of deadpan not-quite-jokes, while Little Monsters is a decidedly varied array of tropes, which vary from the pretty good to the outright terrible. Zombieland, meanwhile, exists in a bizarre fugue of irrelevance. It's not that it's a bad movie – in fact, it's loads of fun – but there's a nagging sense throughout that it has missed the boat of relevance. It's not so much closing the stable door after the horse has bolted as it is closing it after the horse has bolted, died, returned to life as a brain-feasting member of the equine undead, slaughtered its stablemates, and then bolted again.
People might have wanted a Zombieland sequel in 2009, but they don't really care about one in 2019. The film earned a pretty decent $26.75m domestically in its opening weekend – exceeding the first film's $24.7m bow – but sequels very rarely have the box office legs of the original, meaning this one will likely top out below the original's $102m global total. Zombieland was a rare example of a zombie movie that proved to be a bona fide box office hit based largely on word of mouth, but its sequel seems unlikely to deliver the same level of success, despite the cult appeal of the original and the increased fame of its cast since 2009.
It's easy to discern why zombies appeal to filmmakers. Ever since the iconic movies of George A. Romero, from the racial dimension of Night of the Living Dead through to the consumerism satire in Dawn of the Dead, the zombie has essentially served as an all-purpose allegory on the big screen. Much as Brexit allegedly means Brexit, zombies mean zombies – which essentially suggests they can be anything that the person wielding the camera wants them to be.
Zombies are also inherently funny. There's an obvious comedy to the notion of a vacant-eyed, blood-soaked remnant of recently deceased humanity wandering around at a snail's pace. Little Monsters features a scene in which zombies take part in a low-speed chase against a safari park land train, while the 2012 British zomcom Cockneys vs Zombies saw a bloodthirsty ghoul follow the late Richard Briers, who was using a zimmer frame, in an excruciatingly sluggish, but very funny, pursuit. Zombies are definitely funny and the comedy genre has spent the last decade or two squeezing every penny out of the udders of that particular cash cow.
