
# Chelsea predicted XI for Watford: No risks for bottom dwellers

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:00:06+00:00**

Author: **Travis Tyler**

Original: [The Pride of London](https://theprideoflondon.com/2019/11/01/chelsea-predicted-xi-watford-no-risks-bottom-dwellers/)

Chelsea’s over all winning run was snapped by a bad day at the office against Manchester United. It is still alive in the Premier League though and Frank Lampard will have ensured his side understands the importance of that. Watford sits at the bottom of the Premier League table but those are the trickiest types of games. Chelsea will not want to be the team that lets Watford right their ship and Lampard will take no risks after the midweek loss.
It was fairly surprising to see Willy Caballero in goal against Manchester United. He remains a capable back up, but all signs have pointed towards Lampard rotating keepers as bare minimally as possible. Caballero had little chance of stopping either goal but also showed a hesitance to play with the ball at his feet (requiring a center back to come help). If anything, the match reassured Arrizabalaga is under little threat to his spot.
Azpilicueta was one of many Chelsea players that could have done with a break and Reece James proved himself to be a very capable backup for the Spaniard. For all the talent James has though, there still feels like another level he can reach and should reach before he is really threatening Azpilicueta’s starting role. Similarly, Azpilicueta has to avoid dropping down a level himself to make it a fairer fight. The pressure is not on yet, but it is clearly coming down the road.
Kurt Zouma, 15, Center back, France
Andreas Christensen is close to match fitness but something in the way Lampard said that implied he was not yet ready. That could change before the match but assuming it does not, Lampard is left with just two center back options aside from Marc Guehi. Reactions about Zouma seem to be mostly split along the lines of whether he is good enough or not rather than if he is good. Zouma has thus far bonded well with Fikayo Tomori on the field, but it is an unanswered question.
Fikayo Tomori, 29, Center back, England
Tomori was given a rest against United as Lampard opted to trust Guehi in a huge match. Guehi, for his part, did the best thing a defender can do; avoid making headlines. Guehi was excellent in some of his passing, not unlike Tomori, but it was even better that he could be blamed for none of United’s attacks. Still, Tomori will return because he is suddenly the first choice center back though it is worth noting Guehi may not be as far off from the first team as was assumed.
It came as little surprise that on the back of several good games, the boo boys returned as soon as Alonso had a bad game. He is limited as a player, but then again so is Emerson. One knows how to defend but his body limits him while the other has all the physical attributes but does more busy work than productive work. Still though, if Emerson is back to fitness, he needs to start to give Alonso a day off. Who starts after that can be a debate for after the game.
