
# Aga older, wiser: ‘I've learned from my mistakes'

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:37:02+00:00**

Author: **Mario Bautista**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/entertainment/showbiz/aga-older-wiser-ive-learned-my-mistakes)

We remember we first saw Aga when he was a 10-year-old boy at the shooting of a movie of his late aunt, Amalia Fuentes, somewhere in Intramuros. He was with his late dad, Cheng Muhlach, and we told his dad that Aga has so much star potential. “I’m just praying that he will grow taller than me,” said Cheng then.
And that, Aga did. He went on to become one of the top matinee idols of his era. Now, he just turned golden boy on August 12 and he says he’s not only older, but also much wiser. “I’ve definitely learned a lot from my mistakes and I can say I’m more well grounded now with my family,” he says. “My wife Charlene is a real good influence on me.”
How is it shooting “Nuuk” in Greenland? “We shot there for almost 3 weeks and it’s extremely cold. The temperature is often subzero, so hirap na hirap kami mag-shoot sa exteriors. After each scene, takbuhan kami agad sa loob where there is a heater to keep us warm. Pero bagay talaga kasi ang Nuuk as the setting of our movie. It’s dark and chilly, with a very mysterious feel to it.”
He says “Nuuk” suits their film perfectly. “Psychological thriller ang movie as you can’t figure out kung totoo ba 'yung character or gawa-gawa lang ni Alice Dixson as Elaisa Svendsen who’s depressed because her Danish husband just died. In Nuuk, nakaka-depress kasi talaga as you feel isolated from the rest of the world as it seems to be in the middle of nowhere.”
He adds that he had fun doing the movie. “I really enjoyed making it kasi the material is something na hindi ko pa nagagawa before and Nuuk is a place I’ve never been to before. I also enjoyed working with Alice again after doing three movies with her sa Regal in the 90s, ‘Hot Summer’, ‘Joeyboy Munti’ and ‘Sinungaling Mong Puso’. Now, we’re both more mature and more comfortable with each other.”
He feels so happy in his life right now? “I’m just grateful that at my age, I still get a lot of good offers and can still do big movies like ‘Nuuk’ and ‘Miracle at Cell No. 7’. Personally, I’m very happy with my family. Our twins ni Charlene, Andres and Atasha, are turning 18 on November 5 (Tuesday) and they are both very good kids.
"My other son, Iggy Boy (his son with Janice de Belen), is also doing great with his own restaurant and has now also  his own family and has given me great grandchildren. Really, I feel so blessed and I want to thank God for all His wonderful blessings in my life. He’s so good to me.”
