
# PUBG MOBILE Hits The Wasteland In Royale Pass Season 10

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:15:29+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/PUBG+MOBILE+Season+10+Wasteland.html)

PUBG MOBILE is about to enter season 10 of the Royale Pass. In case the image didn't give it away, the theme this season has the game headed into the wasteland.
The official theme for the season is Fury of The Wasteland and is giving off some serious Mad Max vibes. Think dusty vehicles with post-apocalyptic designs.
If you're not sure what Mad Max is, watch Mad Max Fury Road. You should see the resemblance between it and this season's theme.
Advertisement
Each new season isn't just about getting a new theme to give the game some renewed life. Tencent and PUBG Corp. do well to add plenty of new and exciting content into the mix too.
This season, that begins with a new map for the 4v4 Team Deathmatch mode. Team Deathmatch itself isn't new of course. As this was introduced earlier this year.
As for the map, it's called the Ruins, and Tencent promises some potentially more intense and chaotic gameplay. In part, this would be due to the random revive locations. Tencent says this could make for some more intense battles.
Advertisement
Naturally this makes sense as players will have a harder time figuring out where their enemies are popping up.
If you've been playing PUBG MOBILE for a while, you probably have some idea of what to expect in new updates. If you guessed weapons and vehicles, you'd be right.
Along with the new map this season, new weapons are incoming that should help bring the pain. One of those new weapons is the MP5K portable SMG. It features 900 rounds per minute and anti-recoil for some nasty possibilities. This is also the only new weapon listed so far. There's always the possibility of others being added in future updates, though.
Advertisement
If you're a run-n-gunner, you may want to try and scoop this SMG up. One thing to keep in mind is that it's only available in Vikendi. In addition to the MP5K, players will also have a chance to grab the new Zima vehicle.
This should allow for easier movement through snowy terrain according to Tencent. Beyond all this content the update will also introduce updated 8-day rewards, team recruitment channel improvements, and a revised arcade mode availability.
Tencent added tier protection for Platinum and Crown tiers this season too. Clan status details have also been added. As have team-up recommendations for missions.
Advertisement
If you're eager to get your hands on this update, you won't have to wait long. Season 10 of the Royale Pass will be launching this Friday, November 8.
