
# Nigel Farage says he will not stand to be Brexit Party MP at the general election

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:23:03+00:00**

Author: **Oliver Milne, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/oliver-milne/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/breaking-nigel-farage-says-not-20801070)

Nigel Farage has said he will not stand at the general election.
The Brexit Party leader confirmed he wouldn't make an eight bid to become an MP while speaking to Andrew Marr.
On Friday Mr Farage begged Boris Johnson for a "leave alliance" which could see the Tories and the Brexit Party join forces to try and sink Jeremy Corbyn's bid to become PM. That, he claimed, could involve up to 150 Tory candidates stepping aside in Labour seats that have never voted Tory - in exchange for the Brexit Party not contesting other Tory seats.
Boris Johnson has ruled out any alliance between the two right-wing parties.
But despite the bid, Mr Farage has confirmed he will not stand himself.
"I have thought very hard about this: How do I serve the cause of Brexit best?" hesaid.
"Do I find a seat and try to get myself into parliament or do I serve the cause better traversing the length and breadth of the United Kingdom supporting 600 candidates, and I've decided the latter course is the right one."
It would have marked his eight attempt to become an MP.
 
Mr Farage has stood twice in South Thanet, alongside Buckingham, Salisbury and Bexhill and Battle.
He also lost by-elections in Eastleigh in 1994 and Bromley and Chislehurst in 2006.Mr Farage's ploy  to play the Brexit Kingmaker could ironically delay Britain leaving the EU again, after he said Mr Johnson could have until July 1 to meet the terms of the offer.
It comes after the former UKIP leader said he was twice offered a peerage as one of a number of "baubles" put forward by the Conservative party.
Speaking about Mr Johnson's Brexit deal, Mr Farage told the Sunday Times it was like a piece of cheese.
"When you get it out of the fridge, it's really appetising and delicious for a few days, but after a couple of weeks it stinks and is inedible." 
