
# England's World Cup may have ended in disappointment, but it's not been the worst - or best - part of Eddie Jones' coaching reign

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:38:21+00:00**

Author: **By Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/englands-world-cup-may-have-ended-in-disappointment-but-its-not-been-the-worst-or-best-part-of-eddie-jones-coaching-reign)

Eddie Jones suffered the agony of World Cup final defeat again as a rampant South Africa ran out 32-12 winners in the World Cup final in Yokohama.
Jones was also on the losing side in the 2003 final when England beat Australia.
He took up his role as England head coach in November 2015 and has enjoyed a colourful time at the helm.
Jones’ plans for beyond 2019 remain unknown.
Jones’ home nation, Australia, are in need of a new coach with Michael Cheika choosing not to seek reappointment after a disappointing 2019 campaign. Perhaps Jones would like another crack at winning the World Cup with Australia?

        Continue reading below…
      

        Click here to see the video
      
Remaining with England is always an option – and Jones could build a dynasty with the young squad he has at his disposal.
Although the World Cup cycle hasn’t ended the way Jones would have liked, he’s still built a strong side out of the ashes of England’s disastrous 2015 campaign.
What have been the highs and lows of his tenure to date?
March 2016: Jones enjoyed the perfect start to his reign by presiding over England’s first Grand Slam since 2003.
June 2016: The Midas touch was carried into the summer tour to Australia where the Wallabies were swept aside 3-0 in a thrilling Test series.
March 2017: Scotland were routed 61-21 to see England equal New Zealand’s record of 18 successive Test wins. Defeat by Ireland in the next match ended the run.
January 2018: Having overseen a remarkable streak of 23 wins from 24 Tests, Jones is awarded a two-year contract extension.
October 2019: England claim an impressive 40-16 win over Australia in the Rugby World Cup quarter-final in Oita, and follow that up with a 19-7 semi-final victory over New Zealand.
January 2017: Attends the Six Nations launch in London with heavy bruising and wounding around his left eye after slipping in the shower earlier that morning.
February 2018: Abused by Scotland fans and then football supporters while using public transport to travel from Edinburgh to London via Manchester.
