
# Whistleblower's Lawyers Cite 'Deep Throat' Model for Secret Identity

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:41:26+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/edwin.mora.1675, Edwin Mora**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/07/report-whistleblowers-lawyers-cite-deep-throat-model-for-keeping-clients-identity-secret/)

On Wednesday, the Washington Examiner explained:
Washington Post journalist Bob Woodward, who received information from Felt, his colleague Carl Bernstein, and their editor Ben Bradlee, knew the “whistleblower’s” name. Allegedly, some left-wing mainstream news outlets also know the impeachment “whistleblower’s” name, but refuse to report it.
Zaid told the Examiner:
Although Felt denied it, the Washingtonian magazine identified him as the likely whistleblower.
On October 30, Real Clear Investigations suggested that anti-Trump CIA analyst Eric Ciaramella is the “whistleblower” behind the complaint at the heart of the impeachment probe.
The Examiner noted, however, that no one has been able to provide a definitive confirmation that Ciaramella is indeed the leaker, adding that other names have surfaced as possible suspects.
Ciaramella’s name appears in at least one of the transcripts of closed-door testimony provided by impeachment probe witnesses so far.
Democrats released a series of transcripts in recent days, vowing to hold public hearings next week.
Intelligence Community Inspector General (IG) Michael Atkinson and likely House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff (D-Ca), the leader of the impeachment probe, know the identity of the leaker.
It is not illegal to divulge the “whistleblower’s” identity. Only IG Atkinson is prohibited by law from identifying the leaker.
On November 6, National Public Radio (NPR) acknowledged:
While the left-wing mainstream media outlets refuse to publish the alleged “whistleblower’s” name, several conservative media outlets have disseminated reports about Ciaramella.
The “whistleblower’s” attorneys refused to confirm or deny that Ciaramella is their client, claiming that revealing the identity would threaten the “whistleblower’s” safety. President Donald Trump and some of his Republican colleagues have called for the Democrats pursuing the impeachment probe to make the “whistleblower’s” identity public.
Republicans argue that the leaker likely conspired with Schiff to go after President Trump.
Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH) revealed on Thursday that Republicans are planning to subpoena the “whistleblower” to testify in the impeachment inquiry publicly.
The partisan impeachment inquiry resolution grants Democrats the ability to block subpoenas issued by the Republican minority.
