
# Trump rallies supporters in Mississippi after House impeachment probe vote, ahead of tight governor's race

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:51:55+00:00**

Author: **Vandana Rambaran**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-appears-at-rally-in-mississippi-ahead-of-tight-race-for-governor)

President Trump rallied supporters in Tupelo, Miss., on Friday night in a bid to shore up Republican support ahead of the state's tightest gubernatorial race in nearly a generation.
Trump attacked former vice president and 2020 candidate Joe Biden and his son Hunter Biden over their Ukrainian business dealings, accusing the media -- specifically CNN's Anderson Cooper and Chris Cuomo, who again Trump referred to as "Fredo" -- of covering up potential Biden corruption.
"The press protects him," said the president, who also called Biden "One Percent Joe."

        
          TRUMP ECONOMY HAS AMERICA'S MIDDLE CLASS 'SUCCEEDING,' TOP 2020 CAMPAIGN ADVISER SAYS
        
      
Trump also slammed the Democratic-led impeachment inquiry, calling it a "preposterous hoax" one day after the House voted to formalize the rules of their impeachment process, and accused Democrats of trying to "delegitimatize" the 2016 presidential election.
House committees have held nearly a dozen closed-door depositions from witnesses regarding their knowledge of a July 25 phone call between Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. An anonymous intelligence community whistleblower has alleged that Trump sought to persuade Zelensky to open an investigation into Joe Biden, his son Hunter and their business dealings in Ukraine in exchange for military aid to the Eastern European nation.
"Do you think I would say something improper when I know there are so many people listening?" Trump asked the crowd.
The president also mocked former U.S. Rep. Beto O'Rourke, just hours after the Texas Democrat announced his withdrawal from the 2020 presidential election.
Trump called O'Rourke a "poor bastard" and a "poor pathetic guy" who "made a total fool of himself" in the race for the White House.
"Hopefully, we won't be hearing about him for a long time," Trump added.
Trump also decried Hillary Clinton's recent comments about Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D-Hawaii. The former secretary of state didn't mention Gabbard by name, but suggested that Gabbard was being groomed to be a third-party presidential candidate in 2020.
Trump said, "I don't know who Tulsi Gabbard is but I know one thing, she's not an agent for Russia."
Clinton made similar comments about 2016 Green Party candidate Jill Stein, to which Trump responded: "I don't know Jill Stein ... I know she's not an agent of Russia."
The president opened his remarks at Bancorp South Arena by celebrating the U.S. military raid that led to the death of Islamic State (ISIS) leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, saying it had "ended his wretched life and punched out his ticket to hell."
"We have a great military. It was very very depleted when I came into office ... but it ain't depleted anymore," said Trump, who called Baghdadi "a savage and soulless monster but his reign of terror is over."

        
          BAGHDADI TAKEDOWN CATCHES DEMS FLAT-FOOTED, BLUNTS CRITICISM OF TRUMP'S SYRIA PULLBACK
        
      
Trump lamented the media's coverage of the military's most recent feat, saying that if former President Barack Obama had killed the leader of ISIS, the media would have the story "going on for another seven months."
"Conan the dog got more publicity than me -- and I'm very happy about it," Trump said of the heroic military dog who was injured while pursuing Baghdadi through a tunnel underneath a compound in northwestern Syria.
"While we're creating jobs and killing terrorists, the Democrat Party has gone completely insane," Trump said.
Hundreds of people had waited to see Trump at the rally to support Republican gubernatorial candidate Tate Reeves, who is finishing his second term as Mississippi's lieutenant governor after previously serving two terms as the elected state treasurer.
