
# Hornets hang on to beat depleted Warriors

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:36:56+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Malaymail](https://www.malaymail.com/news/sports/2019/11/03/hornets-hang-on-to-beat-depleted-warriors/1806401)

SAN FRANCISCO, Nov 3 — Terry Rozier dropped in a go-ahead basket with 1:09 to play and the visiting Charlotte Hornets survived a frantic finish to hold off the injury-depleted Golden State Warriors 93-87 last night.
Charlotte’s Dwayne Bacon and Golden State’s Eric Paschall shared game-high scoring honors with 25 points as the Hornets capped a 2-2 Western swing by taking advantage of a Warriors team missing injured stars Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson, D’Angelo Russell and Draymond Green.
The Warriors led 69-60 after a three-point play by Paschall with 4:02 remaining in the third quarter, but then ran out of gas on the second night of a back-to-back, scoring just 18 points in the game’s final 16 minutes.
After Rozier’s basket gave Charlotte the lead for good at 88-87, the Warriors had several opportunities to take the lead, but missed their last two shots and mixed in a pair of turnovers.
The Warriors also failed to secure two key rebounds after free throw misses by Rozier and Cody Martin, giving the Hornets extra possessions and additional chances to add to their lead at the line.
Martin made one free throw, Rozier two and Marvin Williams two as the Hornets held on despite a late turnover of their own and three missed foul shots.
Rozier finished with 20 points for Charlotte, which also won at Sacramento on Wednesday night after opening their trip with consecutive losses to the Los Angeles teams.
Rozier also found time for a game-high seven assists.
PJ Washington and Williams added 11 points apiece, and Zeller had 10 for the Hornets, who had lost nine of their previous 10 head-to-heads with the Warriors.
Paschall’s season-best point total came on 10-for-18 shooting for Golden State, which was swept in its home back-to-back, having lost to San Antonio the night before.
Glenn Robinson chipped in with 16 points for the Warriors, who suited up just nine guys, including both their two-way players. Those part-timers — Ky Bowman (16) and Damion Lee (13) — combined for 29 points.
The Warriors lost despite outshooting the Hornets 44.2 per cent to 42.4 overall and 32.1 per cent to 17.2 on 3-pointers. Charlotte made up for the shooting issues with a 48-40 advantage on the boards and by forcing 18 Golden State turnovers. — Reuters
