
# Riding The Wave Of Tech Disruption In Private Banking

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **DBS Private Bank Contributor**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/dbsprivatebank/2019/11/07/riding-the-wave-of-tech-disruption-in-private-banking/)

Technology is transforming the traditional wealth management industry. Smart players are embracing this trend.From payments to lending, financial technology, or fintech, is driving innovation across many segments of the banking sector. This wave of disruption has extended to the private banking space and led to the development of a range of innovative wealth management services and platforms. As digital tools become more prevalent in the lives of High Net Worth Individuals (HNWIs), they expect their bankers to offer them solutions that afford them the same level of convenience in managing their wealth.
“If we are looking at purely at private banking, I think that the likes of the international private banks and also the major Asian private banks in Singapore and Hong Kong are really leading the charge in digitisation,” said Damien Piper, Regional Director for Asia at fintech company Finantix, in an interview with Hubbis.
Technology and data are being used to tailor solutions and services to meet the specific needs of HNW clients. Today, many of these digital solutions are helping advisers to better connect with their clients through self-serve platforms that offer real-time access to information related to their portfolio, as well as the power to execute trades at their fingertips.
Looking ahead, powerful models driven by artificial intelligence may be used to predict major events in a client’s life, such as retirement or planning for succession. Meanwhile, the use of data analytics tools can be used to better identify and mitigate risk.
“Advisers believe that artificial intelligence, advanced analytics, and automation will have the greatest impact on the wealth management industry over the next three years,” said David Akellian Global Head of Wealth Management at financial information firm Refinitiv.
In the nearer term, the next wave of fintech could focus on automating the advisory process. “(Banks) have done a lot of enhancement to their core systems and also to the front systems, but there is often a focus in those environments to serve the customers first, which has led to less digitization for the advisers,” said Mr Piper.
Known as robo-advisors, such solutions use algorithms to construct, manage, optimize, and rebalance portfolios, after considering a client’s risk profile and investment objective. Robo-advisors can support traditional wealth advisors, freeing them up to spend more time to engage with clients. Amid all the promise of fintech, however, private banks must remain vigilant about security, as the increased use of data and technology such as facial recognition software is raising privacy and security concerns among clients.
Private banks that are leveraging digital solutions are seeing their efforts pay off. One bank that is strongly positioned in the digital wealth management space in Asia is DBS. The Singapore bank has in recent years transformed itself to become a leading digital player in the global financial services sector, and its capabilities in this area extends to its wealth management business. DBS was named World's Best Bank by Euromoney magazine earlier this year in large due to its successful digitalization strategy. In 2018, the bank also was also honored with the ‘World’s Best Digital Bank’ title by the same publication.
DBS private clients are able perform a range of banking, wealth management and trading activities on the bank’s iWealth app. “We combine a number of applications to address the various needs of our clients. So, if they need to remit money to pay for their children's overseas education, or if they want to look at how their portfolio is doing, buy or sell us stocks or funds, they can do all that on iWealth. They no longer have to call a relationship manager and wait for them to do it. It’s all available at their fingertips,” says Evy Theunis, Head of Digital Wealth, DBS.
Usage of the iWealth among DBS clients has surged in the past two years, with the number of customers logging into the mobile application going up from seven times a month to around 15 times currently. Meanwhile, some 60% of all equity trades by private bank clients are also now done online through the app.
While the trend of digitalization fueled by fintech will only accelerate in the coming years, private banks must not forget the importance of the human touch when engaging with HNW clients.
To succeed in today’s digital age of wealth management, private bankers must leverage the powerful digital tools at their disposal to complement their expertise and experience to enhance the overall customer experience.
