
# Revenge Is Coming Back with a Latinx Star

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:14:00+00:00**

Author: **Savannah Walsh**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/movies-tv/a29725117/revenge-reboot-news-cast-date-spoilers/)

If revenge is a dish best served cold, ABC is eyeing a second helping. Deadline reports that a revival of the drama series Revenge, which aired on the network from 2011-2015, is in the works. This time, the show will center on a Latinx lead character.
Per Deadline, the series will follow a young Latinx immigrant who is "guided by one of the original series' favorite characters" as she heads to Malibu seeking revenge on a pharmaceutical dynasty, "whose insatiable greed lead to the murder of her biochemist mother, the destruction of her family, and a global epidemic."
It remains to be seen which character from the first series will join the project, which was led by Emily VanCamp and Madeleine Stowe. Currently, none of the actors from that cast are attached to the rebooted show. However, the series will be written by original creator/executive producer Mike Kelley (Netflix's What If) and writer-producer Joe Fazzio (How to Get Away With Murder).
The Golden Globe-nominated series ran for four seasons on ABC and was inspired by the Alexandre Dumas novel The Count of Monte Cristo. It followed VanCamp's Emily Thorne as she arrived in the Hamptons, eager for revenge on a high society family who framed her father for treason. Other cast members on the show—and on the list of possible returnees—include Gabriel Mann, Josh Bowman, Nick Wechsler, and Elena Satine. If it moves forward, the Revenge revival will follow the trend of current rebooted series including Will & Grace (NBC) and The Connors (ABC).
