
# Dubai's Shakespeare and Co. launches bargain afternoon tea

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:48:00+00:00**

Author: **Reema Rahman**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/restaurants/421706-dubais-shakespeare-and-co-launches-bargain-afternoon-tea)

This much-loved family-friendly Dubai restaurant is popular for its kitsch décor, friendly atmosphere and tasty grub. And if you haven’t tried it out for yourself, we’ve got two words for you: afternoon tea.The newly launched afternoon tea will be served daily from 3pm to 6pm at all branches across the UAE excluding The Dubai Mall and comes in at Dhs69 per person.The pocket-friendly deal includes the choice of one tea or one coffee, a selection of bread, butter and jams, a trio of mini sandwiches (salmon toast, club sandwich and the option between a chicken or beef slider), one individual cake, four pieces of chocolate served in a box and the choice of any two macaron flavours.Looking for more places to enjoy a cuppa, pretty pastries and mini sandwiches? We’ve rounded up the ten best afternoon teas in Dubai from the Time Out Dubai Restaurant Awards 2019 here.Looking for more money-saving deals? We love great value here at Time Out Dubai – and if you do too, head here, as we have a whole month of amazing dining deals laid out for you to sink your teeth into.It’s time to eat, sip and save.For all the latest restaurant news and deals across the city have a gander here.Dhs69. Daily 3pm-6pm. Locations include Arabian Ranches, Dubai Marina Mall, Palm Jumeirah. www.shakespeare-and-co.com.
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
