
# Goal poacher tops Mwalala’s Bandari wishlist

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:31:49+00:00**

Author: **Timothy Olobulu**

Original: [Capital Sports](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/sports/2019/11/04/goal-poacher-tops-mwalalas-bandari-wishlist/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 4 – Bandari FC head coach Bernard Mwalala has admitted that he will need to sign a ‘killer striker’ if his side is to comfortably compete in continental football next season.
      
The dockers were on the door of history to qualify to the group stages of the CAF Confederations Cup, but bowed out to Guinea’s Horoya AC in the play-off round after losing a myriad of scoring opportunities.
“We definitely have to beef up our striking force and get a killer striker who can finish a game. We had so many scoring chances but we could not utilize them. But I can’t blame the boys because we have never been in this stage before and sometimes experience plays a crucial role,” Mwalala said.
“As much as we want to boost the striking force, we will also look to ensure that we have a good team all round.” Mwalala added.
He noted that the difference between his side and Horoya was the experience and praised his boys for showing that they can compete with the big boys.
“We have done a good show and we have showed that we are a force in Kenyan football. We had the ability to progress, but again football is a game of chances.”
“My game plan was to get one or two goals in the first half and when you miss the chances like we had, you will always get punished by an experienced team,” the youthful tactician noted.
Bandari only needed to win 2-0 at home to make history, and they should have easily done that within the opening quarter hour of the game.
But instead, they were punished by an Ocansey Mandela goal in the second half to deflate their hopes.
Having tasted the experience of continental football. Mwalala wants a return.
“Our journey back here starts immediately. To play continental football you have to either win the league or the Cup. We know what it means to play at this stage and definitely we want to come back and do better,” Mwalala noted.
The dockers straight away shift their focus to Kenyan Premier League action and they will be in Kisumu on Wednesday taking on Western Stima at the Moi Stadium.
Bandari are looking to challenge for the KPL title and Mwalala believes with the experience they have picked playing continental football, they will be able to challenge Gor who have dominated the local scene over the last six seasons.
“I know there will be a bit of fatigue but we can’t make excuses. We must put ourselves in a position to be in the continent again and the journey starts Wednesday,” he noted.
With a two-game deficit, Bandari are placed seventh on the KPL log with 11 points and with victory over Stima, they can go as high as fourth.
(Visited 25 times, 6 visits today)
