
# Man Utd predicted line-up for Partizan Belgrade clash in Europa League

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:40:17+00:00**

Author: **Liam Prenderville, http://www.facebook.com/mirrorfootball**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-utd-predicted-line-up-20830213)

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is ready to give youth a chance in Manchester United's Europa League clash with Partizan Belgrade.
United are sitting pretty at the top of Group L after three matches, winning two of those and drawing once.
Solskjaer's side are yet to concede a goal in Europe and can all but qualify for the knockout stages with victory at Old Trafford.
After a 1-0 win in Belgrade a fortnight ago, Solskjaer is prepared to rotate his squad again for the encounter.
Youngsters James Garner and Brandon Williams are expected to come into the starting line-up.
United could also hand a start to Mason Greenwood, who has found his opportunities limited since returning from injury.
Solskjaer is also expected to give the likes of Sergio Romero, Marcos Rojo and Jesse Lingard some much-needed minutes.
United are back in action against Brighton on Sunday, with the Red Devils expected to rest Marcus Rashford, David de Gea and Aaron Wan-Bissaka, among others.
Paul Pogba, Victor Lindelof, Nemanja Matic, Axel Tuanzebe, Eric Bailly and Angel Gomes are all set to miss out.
Luke Shaw, meanwhile, trained separately from the group this week and also looks set to miss out.
On Pogba's return, Solskjaer said: ""He (Pogba) said it himself.
"It won’t be too long until he’s out of his cast. He’ll work hard during the international break and hopefully, he’ll be back."
Romero; Young, Maguire, Rojo, Williams; McTominay, Garner; Greenwood, Lingard, James; Martial.
