
# KLCI seesaws as US-China trade talks frustrate investors

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:59:02+00:00**

Author: **Surin Murugiah**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/klci-seesaws-uschina-trade-talk-frustrate-investors)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 7): The FBM KLCI seesawed in the morning session today, tracking regional markets frustrated by the lack of promising US-China trade talks.
At 12.30pm, the FBM KLCI dipped 0.16 points to 1,603.09. The index had earlier risen to a high of 1,605.06.
Gainers edged losers by 276 to 263, while 510 counters traded unchanged. Volume was 1.31 billion shares valued at RM698.57 million.
Among decliners were Nestle (M) Bhd, Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd, Hong Leong Financial Group Bhd, Public Bank Bhd, AirAsia Group Bhd and Yinson Holdings Bhd.
The actives included Velesto Energy Bhd, Karambunai Corp Bhd, FoundPac Group Bhd, Sanichi Technology Bhd and Bumi Armada Bhd.
The gainers included Carlsberg Brewery Malaysia Bhd, Petronas Dagangan Bhd, Heineken Malaysia Bhd, Teck Guan Perdana Bhd, MISC Bhd, Genting Plantations Bhd, UWC Bhd and Pharmaniaga Holdings Bhd.
Asian shares managed to cling near multi-month peaks on Thursday, while bonds eked out a bounce as reports of delays in sealing a preliminary Sino-U.S. trade deal left investors frustrated at the lack of concrete progress, according to Reuters.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan eased a slight 0.1%, just off a six-month high hit earlier in the week, it said.
Affin Hwang Capital Research said the FBMKLCI Index turned slightly lower in yesterday’s session, down 3.49 points or 0.22%, closing at 1603.25.
“The index moved lower towards a low of 1597.18 before paring some of the losses, closing back above 1600 at 1603.25.
“On the daily chart, the EMA20d is also steadily converging towards the EMA50d, which is a positive signal as a successful cross above would prompt a further bullish outlook.
“Technical relief rebound in progress,” it said.
