
# Samsung Trademarks 'Space Zoom' For The Galaxy S11 Camera

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:55:42+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/samsung-trademarks-space-zoom-for-the-galaxy-s11-camera.html)

A new Samsung patent has just surfaced, and it seems like it's meant for the Galaxy S11. Samsung trademarked something called 'Space Zoom', and we're guessing this is a camera-related trademark for the Galaxy S11.
This trademark has been registered with the EUIPO (European Union Intellectual Property Office) on November 6. It is categorized as Class 9/42, under the category "smartphones; tablet computers; smartwatches; software to zoom in to a subject without lowering image quality."
So, even the description of this patent proves our assumption, pretty much. 'Space Zoom' is almost certainly a name for the hybrid camera zoom functionality that will be included with the Samsung Galaxy S11.
Advertisement
The description of this patent clearly says "software to zoom in to a subject without lowering image quality", and that only confirms various rumors that we've seen thus far.
The Galaxy S11 is rumored to sport a periscope-style camera system, with crazy zoom capability. This is a setup that we've seen in several phones thus far, like the Huawei P30 Pro, for example.
Well, the Galaxy S11 is rumored to include 5x optical zoom, and it will quite probably offer 10x hybrid zoom as well. 50x digital zoom is also rumored, and remains a possibility.
Advertisement
Just yesterday, a rumor surfaced claiming that the Galaxy S11's camera carries the 'Hubble' codename. 'Hubble' as in the Hubble Space Telescope. So it's no wonder Samsung opted for the 'Space Zoom' branding for this upcoming feature.
The company also recently launched the SpaceSelfieMission for the Galaxy S10 5G, which hints that the company is all about space brandings at the moment.
Samsung had also trademark something called 'ISOCell Motion' recently. This is a camera sensor that detects objects and movements. Its intention is to make gesture functions possible, in a way. It's almost certain that this sensor will also be included on the Galaxy S11.
Advertisement
The Samsung Galaxy S11 is expected to arrive in the first quarter of 2020. The phone will almost certainly launch in February or March, and will not be the only Galaxy S11-branded device.
Samsung will almost certainly announce several Galaxy S11 phones as part of the series, we're guessing at least three. The company may go with the same branding that it utilized this year, so we could end up seeing the Galaxy S11e, S11, and S11+.
The Galaxy S11 will ship with Android 10 out of the box, along with Samsung's One UI skin. We're expecting a display camera hole to be included as well, but it will be smaller than the one on the Galaxy Note 10 series.
Advertisement
