
# Woman calls for fireworks to be banned after pet rabbit shakes to death through fear

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:21:20+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/woman-calls-fireworks-banned-after-17201317)

A woman has called for fireworks to be banned after her pet RABBIT was filmed shaking violently before it died after being literally scared to death.
Donna Pilgrim said her beloved one-year-old bunny Archie was spooked and went into shock due to the loud bangs from a nearby firework display.
She was told by vets to try keep him warm and quiet but she said he laid on his side and wouldn't stop shaking.
Heartbroken Donna, 60, then revealed that he had literally been scared to death the next morning.
Donna, of Millbrook, Cornwall, said: "Sadly my sweet little Archie is no longer with us.
"I am so upset but so dam angry too. He was happily eating his supper at 5.30pm, then the fireworks started. It was the 3rd of November not the 5th.
"He let out a squeal and laid on his side and wouldn't stop shaking.
"Veterinary advice was to keep him warm and quiet, and all you could do was hope for the best. It was a shock reaction."
Donna posted a video of Archie's reaction on Facebook before he died alongside a warning.
She wrote: "My poor little man. He's just had a huge amount of fireworks go off outside.
 
"As you can see, although he's snug with his hay and his little house where he usually lays. He's now just trembling and shaking in his bed.
"This is the cruelty and reality of fireworks. I'm just hoping and praying that he's still with me tomorrow.
"I found him lying on his side and shaking. He's obviously traumatised by it all.
"So for that few quid's worth going up in smoke, that could do so much more, for so many animals or people in need.
"I hope you enjoyed your five minutes of fun. I think I'll be very lucky to have Archie in the morning."
Donna then revealed to her followers that Archie had died just over 12 hours later.
She added: "I hope the money you spent for a few seconds of horrible noise was worth it.
 
"Let's keep fighting to get Fireworks banned for the welfare of all animals, pets and wildlife.
"It's heart breaking when they die. R.I.P Archie."
