
# The Rock delivers UFC 244 verdict as Nate Diaz and Jorge Masvidal clash for BMF belt

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:40:26+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/rock-delivers-ufc-244-verdict-20795384)

The Rock unveiled the UFC's Baddest Motherf***** belt - but declined to say who he expects to win it.
The prize will be on the line at UFC 244 tonight when Nate Diaz clashes with Jorge Masvidal at Madison Square Garden in New York.
And The Rock - real name Dwayne Johnson - will present the winner with the belt which has been specially designed and commissioned.
He said: "The UFC's BMF title will be presented to either Jorge Masvidal or Nate Diaz at UFC 244 on PPV.
"It either goes back to Stockton or Dade County. Either way, it’ll belong to the BADDEST MF on the planet, period.
"I have nothin' but high respect for both these men. They will electrify the Garden!!"
 
Diaz is fighting for the second time in less than three months following his win over Anthony Pettis in November.
He called out Masvidal in his post-fight interview and the fight was quickly put together with Masvidal riding a two-fight KO streak after wins over Darren Till and Ben Askren.
And The Rock said earlier this week that he could not call a winner.
"I learned a long time ago in terms of combat sports, in boxing and in MMA, especially at this level with two guys who are so skilled and respected in Masvidal and Diaz, that I just want a good fight," he said.
"Everyone's got a puncher's chance. I'm such a fan of MMA that I have too much respect for the guys and girls who put it all on the line to say who's going to win.
"I just want to see a great fight, the addition of the BMF belt is brilliant, it's so smart and it's fun; it's fun for the fighters, it gives them some juice to go out there and Madison Square Garden is the perfect place for this fight; that place is going to be rocking and I can't wait to get in there.
"Both of these guys have been around the game for a long time... with Diaz, you're not going to knock him out and you're not going to submit him - he'd rather die before he submits.
"And Masvidal's legend is legit, that is a bad dude coming out of south Florida."
