
# Fingerface Xposed Module enables the Pixel 4’s Face Unlock in any app

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:23:00+00:00**

Author: **Mishaal Rahman**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/use-google-pixel-4-face-unlock-any-app/)


        Update 1 (11/1/19 @ 2:24 PM ET): A new fork of the project has appeared online.
      
The Google Pixel 4 may not be the first Android smartphone with secure facial recognition hardware (it’s preceded by the OPPO Find X and Huawei Mate 20 Pro), but it is the first Android device with a face unlock implementation that’s recognized secure under Android’s BiometricPrompt API. That means the Pixel 4 is the first Android smartphone that lets you use your face to not only unlock the phone but also authenticate apps or payments. However, app developers have to update their apps to use BiometricPrompt, so it’s going to take some time for every banking and password manager app to support the new Face Unlock. Since the Pixel 4 doesn’t have a fingerprint scanner, apps that use the old API will simply fall back to asking you for manual password entry. Fortunately, there’s a way around that, provided you’re willing to root your Pixel 4 with Magisk and install the Xposed Framework.
XDA Junior Member SemonCat developed an Xposed Module called “Fingerface” that proxies the old fingerprint API to instead call the new BiometricPrompt API. That means that whenever an app using the old fingerprint API requests you to scan your fingerprint, the new BiometricPrompt dialog will appear to let you scan your face instead. It’s a simple, albeit crude, workaround, but it beats having to manually type your long passwords into all of your apps.
Here’s a quick screen recording from the developer that shows an app (in this case, Magisk Manager) asking for fingerprint authentication, but instead receiving facial authentication:
