
# CT City down Polokwane in high-scoring affair

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:34:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/ct-city-down-polokwane-in-high-scoring-affair-20191106)

Cape Town - Cape Town City halted a six-match winless streak in the Absa Premiership as they stormed to a 5-3 victory over Polokwane City at Cape Town Stadium on Wednesday night.
The Citizens announced a new coach in the hours leading up to Wednesday evening's clash, with Dutch coach Jan Olde Riekerink named as Benni McCarthy's successor.
However, it was caretaker boss Vasili Manousakis who was in the dugout for the Citizens as they went in search of their first Premiership win since the 1-0 triumph over Stellenbosch FC on 10 August.
And the hosts came flying out of the traps, claiming the lead after just six minutes of play as Kermit Erasmus slotted home from close range after Riyaad Norodien fired an inviting cross into the box.
Polokwane were still coming to terms with the opening goal when City struck again six minutes later, Erasmus turning provider for Siphelele Mthembu, who hammered a thunderbolt of a shot into the top-right corner.
Rise and Shine didn't let their heads drop, though, pulling one back in the 22nd minute through Charlton Mashumba after the City defence failed to clear their lines.
But the home side went on to restore their two-goal advantage on the stroke of half-time as Erasmus bagged his second of the evening, Amethyst Ralani providing the assist.
There was more to come from the Citizens after the break, although the opening spell produced little in the way of goalmouth action.
Substitute Terrence Mpho bagged City's fourth of the evening on 71 minutes, after latching onto a neat pass from Thamsanqa Mkhize.
And they added a fifth just two minutes later, Edmilson Dove converting from inside the danger area, with Ralani providing the telling pass once again.
Credit must go to Polokwane, though, as they refused to give up the fight, and their never-say-die approach finally paid dividends as Mashumba scored his second of the night in the 87th minute, before completing his hat-trick two minutes into injury time.
But it was a case of too little, too late as the Citizens held on to record a much-needed victory.
