
# 6 Pre-Black Friday Deals on Puffer Coats To Take Advantage Of Today 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Finds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/05/6-pre-black-friday-deals-on-puffer-coats/)

Winter is less than two months away — and winter weather is fast approaching — which means it’s time to start thinking about your cold-weather wardrobe. And no winter closet is complete without a puffer coat to keep you warm in the rain, sleet and snow. That said, you don’t need to spend a fortune on a winter coat. In fact, many designer puffer coats, including Eileen Fisher, Cole Haan, and Tommy Hilfiger, are on sale right now.Shop our favorite puffer coats of the season below, on sale now.

        Cole Haan Quilted Down & Feather Fill Jacket with Faux-Fur Trim
      
Original Price: $275
Sale Price: $180
Looking for the ultimate cozy winter puffer coat? Look no further! The Cole Haan Quilted Down & Feather Fill Jacket with Faux-Fur Trim was designed with harsh winter weather (and style!) in mind. Made with a mix of down and feather fill, the designer puffer coat features a front zip with button placket, 100 percent polyester outer fabric and is machine washable for easy cleans throughout the long winter season.

        
          Shop Now
        
      

        Nautica Hooded Packable Puffer Coat
      
Original Price: $150
Sale Price: $100
If you’re looking for something that fits well and is easy to pack to take on the road, then the Nautica Hooded Packable Puffer Coat is the way to go. This coat boasts a classy design, complete with a removable hood and three zipper pockets on the front to keep your belongings safe and sound. It’s machine washable too — so if you do end up getting something on it, you can easily throw it in with the rest of your clothes. 

        Via Spiga Quilted Hooded Jacket
      
Original Price: $220
Sale Price: $135
Want something that will keep you warm without being ultra bulky? The Via Spiga Quilted Hooded Jacket is beautifully designed, plus it’s quilted and lined for added comfort. It offers two side pockets to store your belongings and is machine washable to ensure that it lasts years before needing to be replaced. While normally $220, it’s currently available for $135, which is a pretty impressive discount. 

        32 Degrees Hooded Packable Down Puffer Vest
      
Original Price: $60
Sale Price: $30
Looking for an ultra-affordable vest that will look great with any outfit? The 32 Degrees Hooded Packable Down Puffer Vest offers a classy design that should keep you nice and warm thanks to the down-and-polyester mixture. It also offers two pockets and is machine washable, plus it's packable so you can easily take it on the road.

        Via Spiga Chevron Puffer Jacket
      
Original Price: $198
Sale Price: $100
Not all puffer jackets are big and bulky. Case in point: The Via Spiga Chevron Puffer Jacket is lightweight, yet ultra-warm with a split collar and stylish chevron design. The designer jacket is made with warmth and comfort in mind and each “puff” is stuffed with 90 percent down and 10 percent waterfowl feathers. And, get this: right now, you can score nearly 50 percent off the coat when you shop Nordstrom Rack.

        
          Shop Now
        
      

        Nautica Faux Fur Hooded Puffer Jacket
      
Original Price: $245
Sale Price: $45.94
Looking for an affordable puffer jacket that rivals Canada Goose? The Nautica Faux Fur Hooded Puffer Jacket is exactly what you need. Made from 100 percent polyester, the ultra-warm, designer jacket features a detachable hood with stylish faux fur trim, a concealed front zip closure and two zip pockets to keep your hands warm in any weather condition.

        
          Shop Now
        
      
