
# Hero dog who went into Grenfell Tower to investigate blaze dies aged 7

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:50:12+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/hero-dog-who-went-grenfell-20810035)

A hero dog who was sent into Grenfell Tower to help the fire investigation has died.
The cocker spaniel, named Murphy, attended hundreds of incidents.
He searched the West London tower block for accelerants in the aftermath of the 2017 blaze, which claimed more than 70 lives.
Pictures of Murphy, who was seven when he died, show him wearing specialist boots for the daunting task.
In a statement the London Fire Brigade said: "We are very sad to learn that our retired fire investigation dog Murphy passed away after a short unexpected illness yesterday."
 
Owner Mick Boyle, a retired brigade dog handler, said: "He was born to be a fire dog and loved every minute of it."
Murphy retired from active duty along with fellow canine investigator Roscoe, then 13, when Mr Boyle hung up his boots in August 2017.
He had joined the brigade in 2013.
At the time Mr Boyle told the Evening Standard : "The dogs are all about keeping the people of London safe and they have been an exceptional success.
 
"Every time I work with them and they find something it gives me immense satisfaction and I'm always amazed.
"I never ever get tired of it when they do find something. I've always had pride in my two dogs."
There were no traces of an external accelerant, such as petrol, at Grenfell Tower.
The blaze caused 72 deaths, and hundreds of firefighters were called to the fire, which broke out on June 14, 2017.
