
# MTN Nigeria attracts music lovers with MusicTime! 

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:29:35+00:00**

Author: **Abiola Odutola**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/04/mtn-nigeria-attracts-music-lovers-with-new-platform/)

MTN Nigeria has launched a music-streaming platform, MusicTime, to attract more music lovers to choose from millions of songs available across the globe.
Details: The innovation, which was developed in partnership with Simfy Africa, is a fascinating music streaming service that offers the best listening experience in local and international music. The platform allows users to enjoy music the way, how and when they want it.

        [READ MORE: 
        MTN halts plans to sell $300 million stake in Botswana firm]
      
The Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria, Mazen Mroue, explained that the platform is focused on customer satisfaction and digital inclusion as the company knows that music is a big part of the Nigerian culture, and in recent times, the nation has seen talented Nigerians take the world by storm through the fantastic music they create.
He said, “MusicTime! is a platform that ensures accessibility to these great Nigerian and African music across the world. We are creating the right channels and ecosystems that will help Nigerians create, play and share their boundless creativity with the rest of the world without limitations or barriers. By providing an avenue for local musicians to stream their music to a global audience while still maintaining a strong local bond, MusicTime! will complement the efforts of the government in the actualisation of its local musical content drive.

        “With the platform, users can instantly stream music even if they have no data on your phone. It has no subscription cost, all that is paid for is the time spent listening to music on the platform. The interface is easy to use which makes it easy to search playlists and trending music, share a personal playlist with friends and even pause the music to return to it later.”
      
He added that MusicTime is available on Google Play Store with free 60 minutes’ worth of streaming.

        [READ ALSO: MTN Nigeria records 28.9% profit growth in nine months]
      
