
# Xiaomi CC9 Pro Launched with a curved display & 108MP penta-lens: The price is mind blowing

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:08:10+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/xiaomi-cc9-pro-launched-with-a-curved-display-108mp-penta-lens-the-price-is-mind-blowing/)

Xiaomi CC9 Pro Launched with a curved display & 108MP penta-lens: The price is mind blowing4.7 (94%) 10 votes
As widely announced, Chinese manufacturing giant, Xiaomi, has finally released the world’s first 108MP smartphone, Xiaomi CC9 Pro. Much of the details of this device have actually hit the web so it was not a surprise to us. However, its 2,799 Yuan (~$399) starting price is completely mind-blowing. Its 108MP Penta-lens, curved display, huge 5260 mAh battery, and SD730G SoC means that this device is way cheaper than what it holds.
The Xiaomi CC9 Pro comes with a new slightly curved display design. When there is an incoming call or notification, the curves on the display will emit dazzling lights. This gives the phone a premium and cool appearance. It boasts of a hyperbolic waterdrop 6.47-inch AMOLED display with a 1080 x 2340 pixels full HD+ resolution and a 19.5:9 aspect ratio. It also offers 400000:1 contrast ratio, HDR and DCI-P3 wide color gamut. The CC9 Pro comes with a Corning Gorilla Glass 5 protection on both front and back. The display has TUV Rheinland certification which means that its blue-ray effect is completely harmless. In addition, it uses an on-screen fingerprint scanner for biometric authentification.
The Xiaomi CC9 Pro comes with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 730G chip which uses the same architecture as the Snapdragon 855. It is built with the 8nm process technology and when compared with the previous generation performance, there is a significant improvement. The CPU is 35% better, GPU 25% better and the AI performance 2 times better.
The Snapdragon 730G is based on Snapdragon 730 but its GPU is optimized for gaming. This is an upgrade for gamers as it enhances GPU performance and DSP image rendering speed. It supports the Snapdragon Elite Gaming function and the GPU frequency is higher than Snapdragon 730. This smartphone comes with 6GB/8GB of RAM and 128GB/256GB of internal storage.
To keep its lights on is a 5260 mAh battery which supports 30W fast charge. Although Xiaomi has a few phones with a higher battery size (e.g. Mi Max 3 – 5500 mAh), the 30W fast charge of the CC9 Pro’s 5260mAh batter makes it better. Although the power does not seem to be large, it can fully charge in 65 minutes.
This smartphone will come with Penta-rear camera setup, while a 32MP selfie shooter sits within the water-drop notch upfront. Speaking of the rear cameras, the Xiaomi CC9 Pro is well on the way to be the first smartphone with a primary 108MP ISOCELL HMX CMOS sensor.
It is the world’s first large-size dynamic image sensor with a 1/1.33 inch photosensitive area, which can be used in low light conditions. It captures more light than other small sensors. The 108MP sensor output images with a resolution of 10000 x 11852 and the size per image easily exceed 20MB. The other four cameras include a 12MP portrait sensor with 10x optical zoom, a 5MP sensor with 50x digital zoom, a 20MP super wide-angle lens, and a 2MP 1.5cm super macro lens. According to Xiaomi, the two optical anti-shake systems ensure that the telephoto lens is stable, and the second is to shoot a better super night image.
The Mi CC9 Pro is now leading the DxOMark benchmarks. It is joint first with Huawei Mate 30 Pro with 121 Points. The Xiaomi CC9 Pro DxOMark score is an average of 130 points in photography tests and 102 points in videography tests.
This device comes with MIUI 11 but sadly, it is still based on Android 9 Pie. Other features include dual 4G VoLTE, Wi-Fi 802.11ac, Bluetooth 5.0, GPS, multi-functional GPS, IR blaster, USB-C and 3.5mm headphone jack. Furthermore, this smartphone comes with a huge 1CC large loudspeaker that can produce up to twofold audio output relative to the previous generation.
The Xiaomi CC9 Pro has three variants with different prices. The colour options include Magic Green, Ice Aurora and Phantom Black. See the prices below
The smartphone goes on pre-sales from today. The outright sales will start on November 11. Note that the Global version of Xiaomi CC9 Pro is the Xiaomi Mi Note 10. This smartphone is already on Exclusive pre-sale at Gearbest.

        Via
      
