
# Arsenal stars have 'serious reservations' over Unai Emery's methods

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:24:26+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-stars-serious-reservations-over-20806909)

Members of the Arsenal team have 'serious reservations' over Unai Emery's ability to turn the club into title contenders, according to reports.
Emery is under increasing pressure in north London and has guided his Gunners side to just two victories in their last nine Premier League fixtures.
Managers including Jose Mourinho have been linked with his job, despite Arsenal top brass recently reassuring Emery his position is not currently under threat.
And there is the sense that should Emery fail to turn things around soon - and frustration among fans continues to grow - the board may be forced to take evasive action.
According to the Daily Mail, another thing going against Emery is the fact that certain players have 'serious reservations' over his methods.
Some players allegedly fear that the Spaniard has a tendency to be too conservative in his approach, and this is hindering Arsenal's chances of picking up maximum points from games.
The Gunners have thrown away leads this season, notably against Crystal Palace and Watford .
Last time out Arsenal took the lead against Wolves through Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and were ahead for most of the match at the Emirates.
But the home side were once again unable to keep their noses in front and conceded ten minutes before the end, resulting in them dropping two points.
