
# [Update: Available for the V50 ThinQ] LG launches an Android 10 preview for the G8 ThinQ

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/lg-launches-android-10-preview-g8-thinq-coming-next-month-v50/)


        Update (11/05/19 @ 7:00 AM ET): After the G8 ThinQ, LG has now launched an Android 10 preview for the V50 ThinQ. Scroll to the bottom for more information. The article as published on October 16, 2019, is preserved as below.
      
Early last month, Google finally released the stable version Android 10 for its Pixel devices. Essential followed suit and released the update for its own Essential Phone PH-1. Soon thereafter, OnePlus also released OxygenOS 10 based on Android 10 for the OnePlus 7 and the OnePlus 7 Pro. However, most other manufacturers weren’t as prompt and just managed to released beta versions of their software for a handful of devices. A few Xiaomi devices received closed beta updates for MIUI 11 based on Android 10, Huawei started beta signups for the P30 and P30 Pro and, most recently, Samsung announced the One UI 2.0 beta for the Galaxy S10 series. Now, Korean manufacturer LG has also joined the ranks and has launched the Android 10 preview for its flagship LG G8 ThinQ.
The preview will allow LG G8 ThinQ users to experience Android 10 on their devices before it’s finally released in the stable channel. It includes all of the new features Google introduced in Android 10, like the new navigation gestures, a system-wide dark mode, and more. LG is also working on its own UI updates for the Android 10 version of its ROM which will include menu tabs and pop-ups at the bottom of the screen for easier access, a simple and intuitive card type menu, etc. This new UI was first tested with the LG V50S ThinQ in Korea earlier this month and the company plans to bring it to the LG V50 ThinQ next month.
If you wish to try out the update, you can register from within the Quick Help app that ships with LG smartphones and you should receive an OTA update. The company has urged users to provide feedback through the Quick Help app’s bulletin board and it has promised to utilize the feedback to improve its software in time for the stable rollout scheduled for later this year. As of now, the company hasn’t revealed an update timeline for other devices in its portfolio, however, it has mentioned that devices in the LG Q series and LG X series lineup will also be updated within the year.

        Source: LG
      
LG had promised to bring Android 10 preview/beta to the LG V50 ThinQ in November, and it has delivered on this promise. This Beta update is currently available to users in the Korean region. If you are looking to try out the update, you can the files to sideload it from the forum thread linked below.

        
          Android 10 Beta for the LG V50 ThinQ
        
      
