
# State Department official claims Trump wanted Ukrainian president to announce investigation into Biden and Clinton

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:57:51+00:00**

Author: **Madison Dibble**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/state-department-official-claims-trump-wanted-ukrainian-president-to-announce-investigation-into-biden-and-clinton)

State Department official George Kent told Congress that President Trump wanted Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to publicly announce investigations into Joe Biden and Hillary Clinton.
The House Intelligence Committee released the transcript from Kent’s closed-door impeachment testimony on Thursday.
In his testimony, Kent was asked to read WhatsApp messages between himself and former Ambassador Bill Taylor. In the messages, Taylor said that he had talked to Tim Morrison, who claimed that Ambassador Gordon Sondland said Trump asked Zelensky to publicly announce an investigation into Clinton and Biden.
[Related: ‘Pay up before signing the check’: Ukraine knew it faced a quid pro quo, ambassador testifies]
Morrison is the national security adviser who replaced Fiona Hill.
Kent tried to explain the situation, saying, “And Gordon had told him, Tim, and Tim told Bill Taylor, that 12 he, Gordon, had talked to the President, POTUS in sort of shorthand, and POTUS wanted nothing less than President Zelensky to go to microphone and say investigations, Biden, and Clinton.”
Kent was pressed to clarify why an investigation into Clinton had been brought up. He explained that he believes Trump’s comments to Zelensky about investigating the 2016 presidential election meddling were “shorthand” for Clinton.
[Also read: ‘Concluded with President Zelensky agreeing’: Trump released aid after securing Ukraine investigation pledge, diplomat says]
“That was a message — that was described in the shorthand of the desire to have — this was the Gordon Sondland messaging of what the Ukrainians need to say in shorthand 2016,” he said. “And in shorthand, it was suggested that the Ukrainians needed — Zelensky needed to go to a microphone and basically there needed to be three words in the message, and that was the shorthand.”
Clinton’s name has been largely removed from the investigation prior to this point.
Zelensky has denied that he felt pressured by Trump to investigate Biden in the phone call.
