
# Stranger Things writers tease ominous season 4 by leaking title of first episode

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:46:42+00:00**

Author: **Jacob Stolworthy**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/tv/news/stranger-things-season-4-episode-1-title-hellfire-club-netflix-trailer-release-date-a9188741.html)

The Stranger Things writers have revealed the first episode title of the fourth season, which offers a few hints at what to expect.
Creators Matt and Ross Duffer made the announcement to mark the day Will Byers went missing in the Netflix show's very first episode.
The season four premiere will be called: "The Hellfire Club."
On Twitter, the writing team posted a photo with the caption: "Looking for new members... are you in?"
What can this title tell us about what to expect? Well, in Marvel comics, this is the name of a group – first appearing in the 1980s – whose "inner circle" seeks to influence world events. This definitely sounds like something Dustin would be the leader of.
In the real world, though, Hellfire Clubs are rumoured to be associated with devil worship, black magic and satanic deeds. Maybe it's this group that will be providing the threat in season four?
Much like with previous seasons, the writing team working on Stranger Things has been revealing the names of films they've been watching for influence.  
Recently, they named Young Sherlock Holmes, Ace Ventura: Pet Detective and Hackers, which hints that Mike, Lucas and co will be upping their spy game in new episodes.
Stranger Things begins production in January 2020, with shooting expected to last until August. Fans are expecting the show to return next December.
