
# IND W vs WI W | Concussion rules Chinelle Henry out of ODI series

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:04:28+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/03/ind-w-vs-wi-w-concussion-rules-chinelle-henry-out-of-odi-series?utm_medium=rss)


        In the recently concluded nail-biting one-dayer between India and West Indies in Antigua, Chinelle Henry struck her head on the advertising board, while saving two valuable runs and as a result, has been ruled out of the series. Hayley Matthews has been called up as replacement for Henry.
      
In a nail-biting encounter at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium, West Indies beat India by a single run. During the match, West Indies all-rounder Chinelle Henry picked up a head injury and is since being treated for concussion. The injury has ruled the 24-year-old out of the series.
Henry threw her body on the line to stop a boundary and was able to save a couple of runs for her side in a match which was decided on the final ball. But in the course of stopping the boundary, she hit her head on the advertising boards and was immediately taken off the field as the ICC concussion substitute came into effect for the first time in women's cricket. 
A press release by Cricket West Indies has stated that Henry will be out of action for seven days. Hayley Matthews, Barbadian opener, will be replacing her in the playing XI. Matthews, who hasn't played an ODI since June this year against Australia, has 1020 runs under her belt in 42 one-dayers and recently served an eight-match suspension.
