
# 16 World Cinema Beauties From the 80s and 90s That Hardly Anyone Remembers Today

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/wonder-films/16-world-cinema-beauties-from-the-80s-and-90s-that-hardly-anyone-remembers-today-794684/)

In the 1980s and the 1990s, some of the most iconic films were produced and released. For example, Top Gun, Romancing the Stone, and Door on the Left as You Leave the Elevator. We not only watched these wonderful films, but also saw some incredibly beautiful Hollywood and European actresses. They absolutely won us over, like a first love that stays with you forever.
Bright Side remembers all the iconic actresses whose names were hits in the 80s and 90s of the previous century.
This British actress was a real superstar of the 90s. Ormond starred in Legends of the Fall (1994) where her screen partner was Brad Pitt. After that, she played the main part in First Knight (1995) where she starred together with Sean Connery and Richard Gere, and also, Sabrina (1995) with Harrison Ford.
Since the 2000s, the actress has mostly appeared in TV series and not so much on the big screen, apart from supporting roles or episodic ones. One of Ormond’s most recent works was the drama series Incorporated (2016-2017). Aside from that, she does a lot of humanitarian work supporting AIDS awareness.
The breakthrough in Rene Russo’s acting career happened in 1992 when she played in the comedy action film Lethal Weapon 3 with Mel Gibson. After that, she did a series of commercially successful films. One of her most notable works was The Thomas Crown Affair (1999) where her screen partner was Pierce Brosnan.
In the 2000s, the actress took a break from her acting career. Her comeback was a triumph: she starred in Nightcrawler (2014) which was critically acclaimed and she got 2 nominations for very prestigious movie awards — a Saturn and a BAFTA. Her most recent role was in 2019 in Avengers: Endgame.
Carré Otis’s filmography is not all that rich — only 4 full-length films. But her tandem with Mickey Rourke in Zalman King’s Wild Orchid (1990) is really hard to forget. The magnetism the actors showed on-screen was very real: in 1992, Rourke and Otis got married. And in 1996, they appeared in Exit in Red together again.
At the moment, the ex-model and actress has a quiet life. She is married to an ecologist, and they have 2 children. Carré is 51 years old and she still looks great, which is proven by her Instagram photos.
In 1985, Kelly McGillis took part in the thriller Witness with Harrison Ford and was nominated for a Golden Globe for this role. But she became even more famous for her role as a flight school instructor, astrophysicist, and Tom Cruise’s character’s dream girl in the iconic film Top Gun (1986).
But later, not a single role of hers had the same success, even though she continued to appear in films in the 1990s and the 2000s. Unfortunately, she is not going to appear in the sequel to Top Gun that is going to be released in 2020.
British actress Jacqueline Bisset became extremely popular in the 1970s. She starred in the films from big directors like François Truffaut, George Cukor, and Roman Polanski. She is very well-known for her roles in Anna Karenina (1985), the mini-series Napoleon and Josephine: A Love Story (1987), Wild Orchid (1990), and Leave of Absence (1994).
At the moment, Jacqueline Bisset is 75 years old and she continues to appear in movies, remaining popular both in Hollywood and Europe. Thanks to her amazing acting talent, she managed to switch from the roles of beauties to other more powerful roles.
In the 80s-90s, movie viewers from around the world were crazy about this French actress. A lot of people will never forget her as the sensitive neighbor of Pierre Richard’s character in Door on the Left as You Leave the Elevator (1988). Thanks to her role in A French Woman (1995) that got a series of prestigious awards, Béart is rightfully believed to be one of the most notable movie stars of the 90s.
At the moment, she continues to star in movies, and she is also an active charity worker and a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador.
Nastassja Kinski took part in novel adaptations of Torrents of Spring (1989) and The Insulted and the Injured (1991). After that, the actress mostly did roles in American films.
The last time Kinski appeared on the screen was in 2012 in The Nightshift Belongs to the Stars. It is also known that Quentin Tarantino invited Nastassja to play a role in Inglorious Bastards but something didn’t work out.
In June 1989, Playboy magazine named Erika the girl of the month. Soon after that, she started to star in Baywatch in one of the main roles, where she worked for 3 years (1989-1992). After that Erika Eleniak appeared in 2 Baywatch-related films and a series of other full-length films where she played the main roles. But these movies were not very successful.
The actress continues to do roles in films and on TV series even today, but the start of Erika’s career was the peak for her, unfortunately.
The breakthrough in Andie MacDowell’s career was her role in Steven Soderbergh’s Sex, Lies, and Videotape (1989). For this role, Andie got her first Golden Globe nomination. After that, she did the roles everyone knows and loves in Green Card (1990), Groundhog Day (1993), and Four Weddings and a Funeral (1994). The former and the latter brought the actress another 2 Golden Globe nominations.
Unfortunately, in the middle of the 90s, MacDowell’s career started to decline because she took part in the films that were not commercially successful. In the 2000s, she became the face of the French cosmetic brand L’Oréal. One of the more recent works of the actress was the main role in the TV series Cedar Cove (2013-2015).
Meg is the star of such iconic romantic comedies as When Harry Met Sally... (1989), Sleepless in Seattle (1993), French Kiss (1995), You’ve Got Mail (1998), and many others. In the 2000s, the actress continued to play the main roles in films.
At the moment, Meg Ryan is raising a daughter that she adopted in 2006. She has also tried herself as a director — in 2015, she filmed the drama Ithaca where she also played one of the roles.
Mena Suvari became truly famous after her role in the Oscar-winning film American Beauty (1999). She literally woke up famous: journalists wanted interviews with her, her portraits were all over magazines, and men’s magazines included her in their lists of the most attractive women in the world. That same year, another film with Mena was released that became a hit despite the risky sense of humor it had — American Pie.
The actress appeared in more than 50 different films — from full-length films to TV series, from dramas to comedy films and horror movies. But she hasn’t done any big hits since American Beauty. Maybe, her most important role is yet to come.
Alyssa Milano is one of the most successful American TV series actresses of the 90s. At the age of 11, she started starring in the show Who’s the Boss? (1984-1992). Later, she had a part in Melrose Place (1997-1998). But Milano became incredibly popular after her role in Charmed where she played the role of the witch, Phoebe (1998–2006).
From 2013 to 2014, Alyssa Milano starred in the TV series Mistresses as Savannah ’Savi’ Davis but after 2 seasons, she left the project because her daughter was born. At the moment, she has already returned to work and aside from filming, she does charity very actively and also writes books. The latest book she wrote is Hope. Project Middle School.
Jodie Foster is the winner of 2 Oscars and 3 Golden Globes. The most famous films with the actress are The Accused (1988), The Silence of the Lambs (1991), Nell (1994), and Anna and the King (1999).
At the moment, Jodie Foster still works in the cinema world, and also on television, but mostly as a producer and director.
Kathleen Turner’s role in Robert Zemeckis’ Romancing the Stone (1984) where the actress starred together with Michael Douglas, made her a superstar and won her a Golden Globe award. Just one year later, she starred in The Jewel of the Nile (1985) which was the sequel to Romancing the Stone. The highest point in her career was Francis Ford Coppola’s Peggy Sue Got Married (1986) that got her an Oscar nomination.
Unfortunately, in 1993, Kathleen Turner was diagnosed with the autoimmune disease — rheumatoid arthritis. The treatment with hormones affected her appearance and made her gain weight. The unbearable pain made the actress almost unable to walk.
The disease had been developing for years and thanks to the modern treatment methods, in the beginning of the 2000s, she went into remission. Today, Turner is back on the big screen and on the theater stage.
Today, the name of this Canadian actress will most likely not ring a bell even with fans of her films. But from the end of the 90s to the beginning of the 2000s, Moss was extremely popular. She was the woman that played Trinity — the hacker who wore black latex in the iconic movie The Matrix (1999). The actress also appeared in the 2 sequels to this film and voiced the animations and computer games related to The Matrix.
Moss is still doing movies today, but she doesn’t have any notable work.
Brooke Shields has worked as a model since she was a child and she became incredibly popular after the release of The Blue Lagoon (1980). Even the fact that Shields received the Golden Raspberry for this film didn’t make her any less popular. After that, she appeared in Franco Zeffirelli’s Endless Love (1981). In the 90s, Brooke proved to viewers and movie critics that her success was not an accident, and she did very different films.
At the moment, the actress is 54 years old, but she still looks amazing and continues to appear in movies. But none of them have become big hits. One of her most recent works is the drama Daisy Winters (2017) where the actress played the mother of a girl that is being raised by a single parent and dreams of meeting her father.
Which actresses from the 80s and 90s did you really like at the time? Maybe you would like to add some names to our list?
Preview photo credit 20TH CENTURY FOX / Album / East News, Invision / Invision / East News
