
# The Man Who Made The Maldives A Luxury Mecca

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Amber Gibson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ambergibson/2019/11/03/the-man-who-made-the-maldives-a-luxury-mecca/)

When Lars Petre first stumbled upon the Maldives as a young Swede on vacation in 1985, the whole trip was a happy accident. After a ski vacation was canceled because the ski resort had to close due to too much snow (imagine – what a problem to have!) Petre and a friend detoured to Geneva and hopped on a flight to Colombo instead.“We were planning a ski holiday but ended up in Sri Lanka,” Petre recalls with a smile. “I'd heard of some small islands in the Indian Ocean, so I thought – shall we take a look?” 
Just three years later, Petre opened his first resort, Kuredu, with Maldivian partners in December 1988. Over the past three decades, their company Crown & Champa Resorts has grown to own or manage 10 resorts, a dozen locations of Duniye Spa and six diving centers across the tropical archipelago.
At adults-only Hurawalhi you can roll out of bed, put on snorkeling fins and slip right into the ocean from the deck of your over-water villa. Manta ray season runs from November to the end of April, and guests have already spotted endangered whale sharks several times this year. Rustic natural landscaping across the island creates unexpectedly lush, vibrant scenery that you might not expect for a country known for its beaches and oceans. There’s a cinema, beach, pool and many other amenities for the 340 employees who live on island, and guests can feel free to tour the complex, with full transparency to where the friendly team members live and work.
5.8 Undersea Restaurant is the largest all-glass underwater restaurant in the world, giving guests the impression of dining within a giant aquarium, surrounded by dozens of species of fish including triggerfish, parrot fish and schools of silvery bait fish that shimmer like ocean glitter. A new vegan tasting menu offers a tempting alternative to a menu featuring local seafood including the Maldives’ national animal – yellowfin tuna.
Five minutes away by speedboat, Kudadoo is Petre's newer and most extravagant venture, the first ultra-all-inclusive resort of its kind. The 15-villa private island is fully solar-powered with unlimited spa treatments, private dining and private excursions like a sunset dolphin cruise all included in the $3,800 a night price. The best European cheese, charcuterie and wine are available and stored impeccably in a dedicated cellar, along with endless luxury ingredients like caviar and wagyu beef. With ample direct flights to Dubai and Singapore, it's easy for the young French chef to source the best ingredients from anywhere in the world.  Dedicated Maldivian butlers provide “anything, anytime, anywhere” service, giving guests a sense of peace and freedom that money can’t buy.
Tourism in the Maldives is a relatively recent phenomenon with the first resorts opening in the 1970s. Today, there are more than 150 resorts in the Maldives, including 20 new openings this year. Petre was among the first wave of tourism pioneers with a vision for sharing the Maldives' aquatic beauty with the world and his dream continues with two more luxury family-friendly resorts planned to open in Lhaviyani Atoll over the next two years. He also co-founded Trans Maldivian Airways and still serves on the company's board and safety committee. Seaplanes have a daylight limitation though, so in order to receive and send guests home in the evening, Petre is building a new domestic airport which he says will be ready in six months. 
The Maldives' tourism boom has been a double-edged sword though. The new industry has significantly lifted the Maldivian economy in what the World Bank calls a “development success story” but as the lowest elevation country in the world and with a fragile marine ecosystem, the Maldives is one of the countries most at risk due to climate change and rising sea levels. The coral reefs that comprise the Maldives have been damaged by rising sea temperatures, ocean acidification, pollution and overexploitation. A recent paper by Marine Conservation scientist Jean-Luc Solandt showed recent resilience and recovery from a mass coral bleaching in 2016, so there is hope, but it remains to be seen if a growing tourism industry can put conservation before short-term profits.
Here, Petre shares his history in the Maldives and his hopes for the future.

        When you first arrived in the Maldives in 1985, what were your thoughts? Did you immediately see a business opportunity? 
      
I was working for a Scandinavian travel company and I saw the potential for the future because it is so unique. Before I came here I'd been in the South Pacific, in Fiji, but there is nothing like Maldives. The nature, geography and climate are just perfect.

        There were already resorts open in the Maldives in the 1970s, but how was Kuredu different from what existed? 
      
When I came, there were maybe 15 resorts in the whole country and today there are 150. It has really changed. When we started in 1988 we were the only resort in this atoll [Lhaviyani Atoll]. There was nobody north of us. The location set us apart. It's a very big island with a fantastic beach and the diving is the best in the Maldives. The amount of fish life is incredible.

        Kuredu opened just a month after a failed coup. Did that political event affect your opening at all?
      
The coup was not successful in November. It was orchestrated by a businessman who wanted to take over the government. The president of India sent 3,000 paratroopers the same day and when they landed on the airport island the mercenaries stole a ship and fled. The Indian Navy sunk it with a torpedo and on that ship was all of our kitchen equipment for Kuredu. So that sunk to the bottom of the Indian Ocean one month before opening. The first four months we had a temporary kitchen and temporary plates. We still managed to open the day we had planned though!

        Are there any industry standards in the Maldives that you pioneered? 
      
This is a Muslim country and it was difficult to get women to work, so we were focusing a lot of our efforts in the early 1990s into the schools. We brought the families and girls to Kuredu and built special facilities to make them feel secure. From basically having zero women in the hospitality workforce, today everywhere there are local women.

        Did you always have a strong commitment to eco-tourism, or is that something that developed into one of your core values over the years? 
      
It was always a consideration. We always knew preserving the environment would be essential for us to hand this over to our kids. In Sweden, we are very much aware about the environment and how to protect the environment. We're champions in Europe of waste management and separation and we have sustainable legislations for all kinds of industries. The last time I met the president, I suggested to him that we should have a target to remove all single-use plastics from the Maldives. We're already done that at our resorts.
Six years ago we started installing solar panels and we will do this on the new airport too. All the ground transportation for the airport will be electric. At Hurawalhi, we are heating water using excess heat from diesel generators. We produce all of our own drinking water on the island.
We're focusing very much now on reducing our environmental impact and sustainability. We have four resorts which are more or less solar powered. During the day Kuredo is 40% solar powered and Hurawalhi is around 30%, so we reduce our carbon footprint by massive amounts. Kudadoo is 100% solar powered. All of our bath amenities, soap and laundry detergents are biodegradable. It's very important to have a strong sustainable initiative. We have to preserve this nature. The nature is the biggest reason that people come here.

        Considering the concerns regarding climate change and rising sea levels, are any of your resorts at risk? 
      
I don't think the Maldives is at risk because the land areas are very small so it's very easy to defend them. You can make sea walls or you can increase the height of the islands. I have more than 30 years experience here. As long as the coral reefs are fine, the Maldives is fine. Everything is based on the coral reef, which is a living organism. All the sand is minced coral. The cycle of life is the coral grows and other fish eat it and then it becomes sand. Sand is produced continuously as long as the reefs are alive. Dream Island only just appeared 15 years ago. It wasn't here when we came. It's not manmade, it just came up naturally from the sea.

        How have you seen your demographics changing?
      
When we started we had only Scandinavian tourists for two years, then we started getting Germans and English. When we opened Hurawalhi three years ago, we had visitors from 105 countries in the first year. Hong Kong is our top market at Kudadoo and we receive a lot of Chinese and Russian guests too.
We would love to have more Americans though. They are great guests – very friendly, really enjoy themselves and they travel far, so most stay for a week to 10 days.

        Many conservationists caution that the continuous booming development in the Maldives is too much and that luxury resorts in particular place an extraordinary amount of strain on resources. What are your thoughts? 
      
Competition is good. For the country I think it is very good that they are building more. Demand and supply will balance out over time. Increased competition is always good and if you're good at what you do, the guests will come back. If you do everything in a sustainable effort and use material that doesn't pollute then that's how to do it. More and more of our guests are conscious of the environmental impact of the places they're traveling to. We source all of our materials from environmentally sustainable sources with accreditation.
I think the Maldives will always be in demand because people today mostly live in big cities. And the best way to get stress relief is in nature like this. 
