
# Listen to Ariana Grande’s star-studded ‘Charlie’s Angels’ soundtrack album

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:16:21+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/news/music/listen-to-ariana-grandes-star-studded-charlies-angels-album-2563374)


        The movie arrives later this month
      
The official soundtrack for the upcoming Charlie’s Angels remake, executive produced by Ariana Grande, is out now. Listen to it below.
The album features 11 songs, including ‘How I Look On You’, a brand-new solo track from Grande. ‘Bad To You’, a collaboration between Grande, Normani and Nicki Minaj that was confirmed earlier in the album’s teaser, also appears on the album. Elsewhere, Grande teams up with soul singer Chaka Khan for the song ‘Nobody’, and reunites with her frequent collaborator Victoria Monét on ‘Got Her Own’.
Others featured on the soundtrack include the previously released singles, ‘Don’t Call Me Angel’ (featuring Grande, Miley Cyrus, Lana Del Rey) and ‘How It’s Done’ (Kash Doll, Kim Petras, Stefflon Don). An update of the 1976 Charlie’s Angels theme song, originally composed by Allyn Ferguson and Jack Elliott, is also included. Check out the soundtrack in full below:
Grande, who counted down the release of the soundtrack with her fans on Twitter, said that she was honoured to have co-produced the album alongside hitmakers Savan Kotecha, Max Martin and Ilya. She also thanked Angels director Elizabeth Banks for including her in the project. “Enjoy and let us know what you think,” Grande tweeted.
