
# Teacher, 63, who 'had sex with pupil' at her school 'kills husband and herself'

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:13:23+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, Chris Murphy, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/teacher-63-who-had-sex-20829604)

A 63-year-old teacher killed her husband and then herself after being arrested for allegedly having sex with a pupil at her school, it is claimed.
A SWAT team was sent to Emma Ogle's home in North Carolina when her husband Michael failed to show up for work.
Colleagues had called a family member who went to the house and phoned the police after discovering it was barricaded.
By the time the SWAT team arrived at the scene on Wednesday morning, both were dead.
It is believed Ogle shot her 59-year-old husband before turning the gun on herself.
 
Officer Odette Saglimbeni said: “When a family member went to the home to check, to see what was going on, is when she noticed 63-year-old Emma Ogle in the home with a gun.”
The officer told news channel WSOCTV that once SWAT officers entered the home, they found both Emma and Michael Ogle dead from apparent gunshot wounds, Huntersville police said.
She added: “Once our SWAT team was able to make entry into the home, they were able to find two deceased parties in the home, and they were Emma Ogle and Michael Ogle.”
 
Previously, local Channel 9 news station reported the Garinger High teacher was charged with having sexual relationship with a student.
They said the health occupations teacher faced several charges in connection with having a sexual relationship with a student.
The channel reports Ogle, of Huntersville, was arrested and charged last Thursday with having sex with a student, crime against nature with a student and felony indecent liberties with a student.
She allegedly began a relationship with a 17-year-old in the spring and it became sexual during the summer.
The age of sexual consent is 16 in North Carolina, but is still deemed illegal when one party has authority over the other, in this instance a teacher over a pupil.
Police said it was actually the student who reported her to a staff member at Garinger.
Ogle had been suspended from the school with pay pending the outcome of an investigation.
