
# Christmas favourite with a twist - are you ready for pigs in blankets ice cream?

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:06:43+00:00**

Author: **Michael Havis, Ben Weich**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/christmas-favourite-twist-you-ready-20801269)

Are you already feeling festive? You can now get pigs in blankets ice cream - made with real meat and served in a Yorkshire pudding.
Fabio’s Gelato in Hitchin, Hertfordshire, which counts Premier League ace Jack Wilshere among its regulars, created the bizarre concoction ahead of Christmas.
It features sausage, bacon, vanilla ice cream and maple syrup, served in a Yorkshire pud.
Owner Fabio Vincenti, who started the business with his wife Hannah, said: “Having had bacon on pancakes and chips dunked in milkshake, we were hoping for that spectrum of flavours.
“It's cold, sweet and creamy with a sweet and salty maple-smoked flavour, and an aftertaste of sausage pigs in blankets.
 
“It really works – think bacon maple pancakes. Bacon makes anything taste nice, even Brussels sprouts!”
If you’re sceptical – don’t worry, you’re not the only one.
Mr Vincenti said: “There's a huge divide before anyone tries it. We hear ‘yuck’, ‘oh my god’ and ‘no way’.
“Then when they try it their faces turn – from closed, screwed-up eyes to wide open eyes and a smile. Followed by ‘oh yeah, it does taste like bacon'.”
 
Mr Vincenti, 35, said the idea came about while trying to devise festive flavour ideas .
“We were brainstorming Christmas flavour ideas and joking about how far we could take it,” he said.
“We then set about making pigs in blankets work.
“Our friends and family all laughed but they are used to our crazy ideas and flavours, and said if anyone can make it work you guys can.”
It’s just one of many eccentric flavours the ice-cream parlour has released over the years.
They’ve also released ice creams that taste like Marmite, Big Macs and Guinness.
The Vincents fell in love with gelato during a family holiday to Rome, and even took a university course about the dessert before opening their business in 2015.
With their latest invention, the culinary couple have emulated celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal , who has made headlines for wacky dishes including ice cream curry, the fish eyeball cocktail and snail porridge.
