
# Fashola divulges FG’s plans to build affordable homes 

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:12:43+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Olaoluwa**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/01/fashola-divulges-fgs-plans-to-build-affordable-homes/)

The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, has disclosed the plan of the Federal Government (FG) to build more low-cost houses in 34 states of the country. This is in addition to road construction projects currently ongoing across all the 36 states of Nigeria.
The Details: Giving more details about the projects in Abuja yesterday, Fashola noted that most road projects had neared completion while new projects were being proposed.
“We are delivering on our agenda for housing provision by aggressively and sustainably pursuing the model National Housing Programme, which will turn out acceptable and affordable houses for Nigerians, and with a lot of associated economic opportunities.
“Construction is ongoing in 34 states, most of which are largely completed, and will soon be offered for sale to the public, while also simultaneously planning the second phase in those states that have provided us with land,” he said.
In addition, he noted that maintenance and repairs of the roads nationwide had commenced.
“The effective, efficient and timely movement of people, goods and delivery of services are imperative for socio-economic growth and sustainable development.
“I am pleased to report in this regard that there is at least one federal road under construction in each of the 36 states and the FCT.
“While many have been completed, others are still under construction and new ones being planned. We are also repairing, building and rehabilitating many other roads under our Federal Road Maintenance Agency.”
In a recent Nairametrics article, Fashola disclosed that 524 road projects were ongoing in the six geopolitical zones of the country. The Minister noted that the essence of the road project was to open up the economy and make business easier for everyone.
He added that a funding gap of ₦255 billion was required to “ideally” fund some of the major roads and stressed that the ₦157 billion proposed in the 2020 budget allocation was inadequate.
Fashola said that ₦2.93 billion was pending in unpaid certificates under the multilateral funded projects while ₦306 billion was the amount for unpaid certificates for completed road projects.
