
# Nokia 6.2 Lands In The US WIth A Premium Display & Cameras

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:10:32+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/nokia-6-2-us-availability-specs-design.html)

The HMD-built Nokia 6.2 is now available to buy in the US, following a new announcement by the company. The device was first announced in early September alongside the Nokia 7.2 and offers a similar experience with a slight cutback in specs.
The Nokia 6.2 ships with a Snapdragon 636 SoC on-board. At the time of the announcement, global variants were announced with options for either 3GB or 4GB RAM and 32GB, 64GB, or 128GB storage. The US configuration arrives with 4GB RAM and 64GB storage available. Users can expand storage via a MicroSD card.
Among other amenities on offer with the Nokia 6.2, the company has kept the 3.5mm headphone jack for this device. USB-C is in place for charging and data transfers, while users will find NFC, FM radio, and Bluetooth 5.0 with Qualcomm aptX audio for connectivity on the inside.
Advertisement
A circular fingerprint scanner occupies the rear panel of the Android 9 Pie handset, which HMD Global has promised to update to Android 10 in a reasonable timeframe.
The biggest features with the new Nokia 6.2 come down to its cameras and display. At the front of the device, housed in a water drop-style notch, the new phone houses a fairly standard 8-megapixel snapper. That's accompanied by the usual sensors.
Around the back of the device, HMD and Nokia have incorporated a triple camera array that's powered by AI and includes a dedicated Night mode. That's comprised of a 16-megapixel primary shooter, an 8-megapixel ultra-wide 118-degree camera, and a 5-megapixel depth sensor.
Advertisement
Among its many features, the company highlights the Bokeh features enabled by that latter sensor and AI. Namely, that allows for an adjustable bokeh, bringing a variety of shapes to the table to help portraits stand out. Bokeh effects can, for example, be applied in a heart or star shape, in addition to the classic styles.
Beyond Bokeh, the cameras allow for Ultra HD video captures complete with spatial audio and "dual-sight." That utilizes both front and back cameras simultaneously.
The display used to deliver that experience is a 6.3-inch panel set at a Full HD+ (1080 x 2280) resolution and a 19.5:9 ratio. That's built around a 2.5D design and topped with Gorilla Glass 3 but those aren't what sets Nokia 6.2 apart. The company also partnered with Pixelworks and this phone uses that company's visual processor. For Nokia 6.2 users, that means video content upscaled to HDR in real-time.
Advertisement
Around the display panel, HMD built the Nokia 6.2 from a proprietary polymer that's stronger than standard plastics and around half the weight of aluminum. The overall shape of the device is a familiar candy-bar shape, not dissimilar to other Nokia handsets.
That equates to an almost flat design that curves slightly toward the front and back panels. The corners, conversely, are rounded for a smooth in-hand feel. The screen bezels are slim but with a larger 'forehead' and 'chin', with the latter section made larger to house Nokia branding.
A power button and volume rockers line one edge while a dedicated Google Assistant button occupies the other.
Advertisement
The software is relatively traditional for a Nokia device too. That's because this is an Android 9 Pie gadget out-of-the-box with a promise of Android 10 as part of the Android One program. That program guarantees two years of firmware updates and three years of security updates. It also guarantees an almost stock Android experience.
One other prominent but not entirely unique feature of this handset is Google Assistant. Not only is that accessible via the usual methods — voice, an app, and the physical button. Users can also access that via a fairly new Google-built feature called Google Assistant Assistant Ambient Mode.
With Google Assistant Ambient Mode activated, Nokia 6.2 acts as a smart display hub when it's charging. That always-on display mode gives ready access to Assistant and can act as a digital photo frame or central point for controlling a smart home environment. In its simplest form, it enables Nokia 6.2 to be used as a smart clock or for quickly accessing contextually relevant information at a glance.
Advertisement
The device specifications for Nokia 6.2 are as follows, as laid out by the company.
Nokia 6.2 is currently available via Amazon with compatibility listed for AT&T, T-Mobile, MetroPCS, Cricket, Mint carriers. Pricing is set at $249 and both color configurations are available at that price. Buyers have a choice between a ceramic-like black hue and a silvery-blue "Ice" color.
Consumers who buy the Nokia 6.2 will also receive a three-month Google One membership, adding 100GB of cloud storage access and support across Google Drive, Gmail, and Google Photos.
Advertisement
