
# Win a mystery bag from The Verge to celebrate Black Friday deals!

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chaim Gartenberg**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/4/20947546/black-friday-giveaway-tech-mystery-bag-entry-rules)

Black Friday is almost here, and that means lots of great deals on gadgets. But you know what’s better than cheap stuff? Free stuff. Fortunately, The Verge is here to help: we’ve got too much stuff around our office, so we’re giving away a fancy backpack filled with hundreds of dollars worth of gear, gadgets, and more.
To enter, you’ll need to follow the Verge Deals account on Twitter (@VergeDeals) using the widget below. It’s our feed of all the best deals around, and it’s the best place to find out about all of the hottest deals for Black Friday this year. Already a follower? Just log in with your Twitter account, and you’ll automatically be entered.
Want another chance to win? Retweet the @VergeDeals tweet using the same widget to get a second entry.

        The Verge Black Friday Giveaway
      
NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. The Verge Black Friday Giveaway starts on November 4th, 2019, at 10AM ET and ends on November 26th, 2019, at 10AM ET. Open only to eligible legal residents of the United States, 18 years or older. Click here for Official Rules and complete details, including entry instructions, odds of winning, prize details and restrictions, etc. Void where prohibited or restricted by law. Sponsor: Vox Media, Inc.
