
# Review: Calidore String Quartet delivers intimate performance

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:09:52+00:00**

Author: **Kenneth DeLong, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/entertainment/music/review-calidore-string-quartet-delivers-intimate-performance)

The past few months have been kind to lovers of classical string quartets. Last August, there was the feast of the Banff International String Quartet Competition, followed shortly after by an appearance of Rolston String Quartet in Calgary Pro Musica’s Horizon Series. And last week, there was a concert by the Calidore String Quartet in Mount Royal Conservatory’s Wyatt Series, a concert that drew not only the string quartet crowd but a host of conservatory students, for which the ensemble offered a series of lessons and masterclasses.
Founded in Los Angeles at the famed Coburn School, the quartet now serves as quartet-in-residence at universities in Delaware and Toronto. Still youngish, as quartets go, the Calidore String Quartet is nevertheless starting its second decade as a professional quartet and is no longer a fledgling group. It has now developed its own unique sound and personality. Different from other North American quartets, the Calidore String Quartet has a more intimate, less extroverted personality. While all members of the group are highly accomplished, this individual accomplishment is not foregrounded or flaunted. Rather, the emphasis in the playing is on a refined balance among the instruments, on warmth of tone, on gentleness, and unfailing poise. These elements were marked both in the works they chose to play and in their approach to their performance.
The program itself came from the heartland of the string quartet repertoire: a frequently played Haydn quartet, the Bartok Third Quartet (the most played of the Bartok quartets at the recent Banff International String Quartet Competition), and the “Rosamunde” Quartet by Schubert, the most inward and intimate of the final three quartets by Schubert.
A sense of child-like play was the most striking element in the opening Quartet Op. 20, No. 2 in C major by Haydn, with much attention paid to the varieties of the solo-accompaniment textures that mark this particular quartet. Here, as in other portions of the concert, the slow movement made a particular effect, the delicate shadings of sound the focus of the performance, all expressed with a refined sense of melody. The final two movements, like the opening, were more playful, less overtly projected, for example, than in performances of this music heard recently in Banff. The final effect of the performance was something one always hopes to hear in Haydn: charm.
All of the later Bartok quartets have their moments of grittiness, but on this occasion it was not aggression or grit that distinguished this performance. Instead, what was offered was a richly complex engagement with the numerous short motives that saturate the piece — the ways these motives are combined, extended, turned upside-down. In a way, this was a Beethoven-like treatment of the quartet instead of the projection of Bartok as a modernist. This gentler approach brought many musical dividends for the listener, whose aural sensibilities were caressed rather than assaulted. Bartok is certainly an intellectual and often severe composer, especially in the quartets, but it is perfectly reasonable to take a less fierce approach to the music and to stress its sunny side. This approach certainly worked for the audience, and whereas in Banff one often heard respectful applause, not so often did one encounter the affectionate response that this performance was given.
From what characterized the first half, it was no surprise that the Schubert quartet was for me, at least, the finest of all the performances of the evening, the beautiful melodies and inward textures drawing the listener into the music in a beguiling, unforced way. The variation movement that gives the quartet its title was a highlight here, with the unbuttoned finale sweeping away any residual tears. A generous encore was offered in the slow movement of the Harp Quartet (Op. 74) by Beethoven, as moving and soulful as one could wish.
The evening was also a homecoming for Calgary’s Estelle Choi, the quartet’s cellist and sister to Arnold Choi, the CPO’s present first cellist. Mount Royal was the training ground for Estelle in the first stages of her career, and this concert was a moment for the performer and the institution to be able to enjoy a happy smile at mutual accomplishment.
