
# This Mashup of Selena Gomez's 'Lose You to Love Me' and Justin Bieber's 'Sorry' Is So Good It's Going Viral

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:12:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/music/a29697599/selena-gomez-lose-you-to-love-me-justin-bieber-sorry-remix/?utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_source=twitter)

The Jelena days are long over, but musically, Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez still go together great. Here's proof: Music producer Andy Wu mashed up the two's breakup songs about their relationship, Bieber's "Sorry" and Gomez's "Lose You to Love Me," and the result is catchy as hell...and pretty heartbreaking lyrically. That video has gotten over 678,000 views on YouTube since it was uploaded last week, and that number is only growing:
This isn't the only time two exes' songs have been mashed up and gone viral. Taylor Swift and her ex Harry Styles' tracks "Style" and "Perfect," respectively, had a moment when they were mixed together in 2015. Styles, of course, was in One Direction back then:
Gomez said in her recent radio interview with Zach Sang that "yeah," she hopes the individual the song is about, Bieber, hears "Lose You to Love Me."
“For me, my intentions are never evil. They just aren’t,” she continued. “I don’t even know how to do that. I can be a bit snappy, but I always want to come from a place that’s genuine, and when I feel like some things haven’t been said then I get to turn that into art.”
E! reported that a source told the outlet "of course" Bieber and his wife Hailey Baldwin had heard the song, shortly after it came out.
"They are both trying to not give any reaction to her lyrics referencing Justin," the source explained. "It isn't ideal for Hailey, but she understands the creative process of writing music and that Justin had a past. Justin has completely moved on from that chapter of his life and understands that Selena is allowed to reflect on the past in her own way. Justin and Hailey both want Selena to be happy and in a good place and aren't fazed by it."
