
# Grieving dad reunited with baby girl after wife and 8 family members massacred

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:41:43+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/mormon-family-massacre-grieving-dad-20821665)

A grieving father has been reunited with his baby girl after his wife and eight other family members were slaughtered by a Mexican drug cartel.
Mum Christina Johnson has been hailed a hero for saving her seven-month-old daughter Faith, who miraculously survived the massacre unharmed as bullets "just missed" her tiny body.
Members of the LeBaron Mormon family feared Faith was killed along with her mum, but she was found alive strapped into her car seat on the floor of their SUV.
More than 200 bullets were fired during the execution of three mothers and six children, who were travelling in three vehicles that may have been mistaken for a rival cartel.
Faith's grandmother and aunts have shared a photo showing the moment the infant was reunited with her father, Tyler Johnson, who is pictured with a huge smile as he holds the girl in his arms on a sofa at home.
Family members have said Mrs Johnson, 29, put a blanket over Faith and threw her car seat on the floor to protect her from gunmen who were armed with assault rifles.
Cartel gunmen shot her in the chest at point-blank range when she got out of her car and raised her arms in the air to suggest she was surrendering and unarmed on a remote dirt road in northern Mexico.
Faith's grandmother, Connie LeBaron, wrote on Facebook: "My son Tyler reunited with his baby Faith just now.
"God is so good for sparing her life.
 
"She is a living angel and has brought hope to our family."
Aunt Jolie Galaz, who also posted the photo of the father and daughter, wrote: "My brother reunited with his baby! Thank you Jesus.
"God is so good and gave us hope in this sadness.
"We thought little Faith was dead for about 4 hours.
 
"Until we got a message saying they found her in her car seat and her mama had put a blanket over her to protect her.
"My sweet angel. You are a miracle! I’m so happy your still here with us."
Another aunt, Connie Johnson, wrote: "My brother and his precious baby! I can’t wait to love on little Faith!
"She was in her car seat alone for hours. Bullets just missed her car seat!
"After hours of people saying she had died we got the news that they found her alive. She’s such a miracle."
Three mothers and six children - many of whom were dual US-Mexico citizens - were killed at three different locations during Monday's slaughter, which has been blamed on drug traffickers.
A prosecutor said the family members - including six-month-old twins and a two-year-old boy - may have been killed by members of an offshoot linked to El Chapo's Sinaloa Cartel.
Mexican officials say it may have been a case of mistaken identity. The Mormon community has had run-ins with cartels and criminals in the past.
Relative Lafe Langford rejected the mistaken identity theory.
He told Reuters: "They were targeted and they were killed on purpose."
The victims were members of the LeBaron family, a breakaway Mormon community whose ancestors settled in northern Mexico almost 100 years ago.
The early Mormon settlers in Mexico fled the threat of arrest in the United States for practicing polygamy.
Distressing photos taken in the aftermath of the attack show a baby's blood-stained car seat, a baby's full milk bottle covered in blood and SUVs riddled with bullet holes.
Mrs Johnson and Faith were travelling in one of the three SUVs that were ambushed near the Mormon community of La Mora, about 70 miles south of the US border, at about 1pm local time on Monday.
Rhonita Miller, 30, and four of her children - Howard Miller, 12, Krystal Miller, 10, and twins Titus and Tiana Miller, both eight months - were all killed when their SUV was sprayed with bullets and destroyed by fire.
Relative Julian LeBaron said some family members were burned alive.
Mum Dawna Langford, 43, and two of her children - Trevor Langford, 11, and Rogan Langford, two - died in a third vehicle.
Faith and Mrs Langford's six other children survived the attack in the state of Sonora, which has been condemned by the Mexican and American presidents.
Family said the Langford children who survived were Kylie, 14, who was shot in the foot; Devin, 13, who was not injured and walked for hours to raise the alarm; McKenzie, nine, whose arm was grazed by a bullet; Cody, eight, who was shot in the face and the leg; Jake, six, who escaped without injury; Xander, four, who was shot in the back; and eight-month-old Brixon, who was shot in the chest
Devin hid his brothers and sisters with tree branches as he walked 14 miles home to get help.
The five wounded children were airlifted to a hospital in Tuscon, Arizona, and a critically injured boy was transferred to a hospital in Phoenix.
Family members said Mrs Miller was driving to Phoenix, Arizona, with her children to pick up her husband from the airport as he returned home from working in North Dakota.
Her car blew a tyre and she returned to the community to get another vehicle and left again just before Mrs Johnson and Mrs Langford left with their children.
Mrs Johnson and Mrs Langford were heading to the neighbouring state of Chihuahua for a wedding due to take place on Friday, according to family.
With Mexican soldiers standing guard, grieving family members gathered on Tuesday at the scenes where the cars were attacked.
They hugged and consoled each other as they gazed down inside the burned-out vehicle where the charred remains of Mrs Miller and her four children were found a day earlier.
LeBaron family members have demanded a tough response from Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador and US President Donald Trump.
In a series of tweets, Trump threatened to "wage war" against drug cartels.
A possible suspect has been arrested in Mexico as authorities hunt the gunmen, according to officials.
Mexico's Ministerial Agency for Criminal Investigations said the man was holding two bound and gagged hostages in the border town of Agua Priests, Sonora.
The man was armed with assault rifles and a huge cache of ammunition, the agency said.
Mexican officials were investigating the reason for the attack, but said it may have been a case of mistaken identity.
The LeBaron community is well-known in the region and has had conflict with drug cartels in the past. Members of the family were murdered years ago.
Alex LeBaron, a relative, told Reuters that the gunmen surely knew who they were targeting.
He added: "We've been here for more than 50 years. There's no-one who doesn't know them.
"Whoever did this was aware. That's the most terrifying."
Cesar Augusto Peniche, the attorney general for Chihuahua, said a violent cartel called Los Jaguares (The Jaguars) operates in the region and its members may have been involved.
Los Jaguares is aligned with the Sinaloa Cartel once run by drug lord Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman, who was jailed in the US earlier this year.
It is warring with at least two rival cartels for regional control of the lucrative drug corridor into the United States, according to reports.
Mrs Miller and her children were found in a burnt Chevrolet Tahoe near the village of San Miguelito, according to state prosecutors.
Mrs Langford and her children were found in a a white Chevrolet Suburban just over 10 miles away.
Mrs Johnson's body was discovered about 50ft from her Suburban near the Sonora-Chihuahua border, with her baby daughter alive inside.
Mrs Miller's sister-in-law, Kendra Lee Miller, said one of the mums was going to pick up her husband, a second was going to meet her husband to move to North Dakota, and the third was on her way to visit family in Chihuahua.
She said her brother Andre was fixing the car when he saw a fire and explosion in the distance and went to check it out.
She told CNN: "(He) saw it was my mother's vehicle, full of bullet holes, completely ablaze.
"My dad, Andre and couple of uncles and relatives went to check up on the vehicle.
"All they found was charred remains, ash and bones.
"There were remains inside and outside of the vehicle."
She said her family was recently threatened by cartels over where it can travel.
A GoFundMe page set up to support the victims' relatives had raised more than £65,000 as of Wednesday morning.
