
# UK campaigners call for citizens' assembly to repair democracy

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:00:28+00:00**

Author: **Rowena Mason**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/04/uk-campaigners-call-for-citizens-assembly-to-repair-democracy)


        Letter to Guardian says Britain’s democratic system is in urgent need of an upgradeA plan to fix Britain’s broken democracy
      
A citizens’ assembly is needed to reform Britain’s democracy because parliament has failed to deal with the chaos over Brexit, respond to climate change or shore up the economic system, according to 70 campaigners including the environmentalist Jonathon Porritt and the former Labour cabinet minister Hazel Blears.In a letter to the Guardian, they call on the government to set up a special people’s assembly to tackle the urgent problems with the UK’s democratic system.
Assembly members would be selected in the same random way that people are chosen for jury service and parliament would be mandated to act on its recommendations, they said.
The letter, organised by Neal Lawson, the director of Compass, which campaigns for a more equal, sustainable and democractic society, said democracy was “precious, but right now it’s in a mess”.“The problems are there for all to see in the chaos over Brexit, in our inability to respond to the climate crisis and in an economic system that keeps failing,” the letter reads.
“These are all symptoms of the same disorder. The way we make decisions isn’t working. Our democratic system is in urgent need of renewal.
“Power is too far away from people. We need the power to make changes in our lives and our communities. But too often we don’t know who can help or who is responsible.
“Parliament and elections are stuck in the past. The structures and systems are in urgent need of an upgrade. And under the current electoral system too many voters are ignored.”
The letter says Britain should learn from examples around the world and convene a citizens’ assembly, which should be given the best advice and the space to think through the challenges facing democracy.
“This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to create a democratic settlement that works for us all. It’s up to us,” it says.
Others to endorse the letter include the Labour leader of Camden council, Georgia Gould, the human rights campaigner Peter Tatchell, Alexandra Runswick of Unlock Democracy and the executive director of the Equality Trust, Dr Wanda Wyporska.
The concept of a constitutional convention and a citizens’ assembly was used successfully in Ireland to examine the country’s biggest political issues.
The assembly was composed of a chair and 99 citizens, randomly selected to be electorally representative. It met at weekends 12 times over 18 months, and considered five subjects: abortion, climate change, the ageing population, how referendums are conducted and fixed-term parliaments.
