
# Lewis Hamilton on racing in 2021: I see no reason to stop

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:50:00+00:00**

Author: **Louis Shaw**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49137/lewis-hamilton-on-racing-in-2021-i-see-no-reason-to-stop-.html)


        With a new set of rules announced for 2021, drivers nearing the end of their careers need to make a decision. Lewis Hamilton is one of those drivers and he is hoping to continue driving although nothing is certain yet. 
      
"Of course there is nothing definitive for the future yet, but I am clearly still enjoying what I am doing. I see no reason to stop doing that since I love doing it," said Hamilton. 

        “And yes, if a challenge is created due to new rule changes, then that is also a challenge for me as a driver. I have to use my skills and knowledge of the previous seasons to push the team in the right direction in order to achieve consistent, good performances again."
      
There has been much speculation about Hamilton moving team for the final years of his career but the Mercedes driver is happy where he is. 

        “I don't necessarily see myself driving anywhere else. I love driving at Mercedes and being part of the brand. Be a part of history. I have been driving here since I was 13, so the idea of ​​staying with them, even after Formula 1, is something that appeals to me. Logically, I will continue to race for a few years and I want to win in those years."
      
Hamilton will like the challenge of a new set of regulations and will hope that 2021 is the season where he can beat Michael Schumacher's record. 
