
# Your letters for Nov. 1

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:00:46+00:00**

Author: **Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/letters/your-letters-for-nov-1-2)


        Re: Alberta asks arbitrators for civil service wage cuts, Oct. 30
      
What exactly is meant by the phrase “Alberta Advantage”? In political circles, people think that it means we pay lower taxes and have superior services provided by our government. It also seems to mean, in economic terms, that Albertans are better off than citizens in other provinces. The mean income for households in Alberta is $92,300 per year. The Canadian mean income for households is $71,700 per year. Alberta per capita spending is roughly 15 per cent higher than it is in British Columbia. This confirms that there is an “Alberta Advantage,” according to these definitions.
Finance Minister Travis Toews and the UCP government apparently feel Alberta’s public employees do not deserve to be included in this advantage because their publicly stated goal is to roll back wages of these employees until they are at the levels of other provinces. Why should these workers be less able to enjoy the “Alberta Advantage” than other citizens? Why should they be expected to have a lower standard of living to provide the “Alberta Advantage“ to other Albertans?
John A. Tate, Calgary
The provincial government is once again on the never-ending road of providing corporate welfare, such as billions to the petrochemical industry.
I would like to see the UCP create a formula to tie corporate tax reductions to the number of proven new jobs created, either by company or total industry in Alberta.

        Ken Riley, Bassano
      
I am profoundly disappointed in the UCP’s ongoing threats and cuts to education and health services in Alberta.
We have still not overcome the cuts by “King Ralph” when he cut services to our most needy children and took a huge bite out of pensions for teachers.  The government at the time owed over $6 billion for their portion of the retirement fund over many years. Their solution was the same as this government: take it over, confiscate the money and blame someone else for the shortages.
Our schools and children are still suffering from Ralph’s cuts.
Don’t make it an Alberta legacy that we prey on the needy. Rethink the cuts. Our future is important.

        Keith Williams, Calgary
      
The people targeted are the ones least able to add additional revenue to their income. These are people who, in no way, influence their own income or spending. They are the ones left behind by a society that wants them to just disappear and not be a constant reminder that life is just not always fair. The premier and ministers should consider themselves fortunate that they do not have a mental disability. If they did, they would understand the scope of the cuts made!
It may seem very minuscule but then again, how much does Kenney make as premier? Cutting the indexing on the AISH assured income only saves $3 million this year. Could you not take that out of another department that is less susceptible to the cruelties of the world?

        Tim Martin, Calgary
      
