
# Flexicare celebrates its 30th birthday

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:10:00+00:00**

Author: **Alison Rennie, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/alison-rennie/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/flexicare-celebrates-its-30th-birthday-20791828)

A much-loved activity service for teenagers and adults with learning disabilities and autism is celebrating its 30th anniversary.
Flexicare has been a welcome support for young people and their parents across Renfrewshire since it began back in 1989.
Now it has more than 200 young people who attend the various events like Halloween parties and Christmas discos as well as 12 evening activity groups across the district; Going Places, which sees small groups of three or four people go out together and a one-to-one befriending service.
There is a team of seven office staff as well as paid sessional workers who help run the groups.
The service, which is part of the Renfrewshire Health and Social Care Partnership, simply wouldn’t exist without the hard work and dedication of its army of volunteers who give up their own time to give the young people some independence and time away from their families.
Manager Jane Hamilton said: “We are always looking for volunteers, we rely on them so much.
“The stories I’ve heard of people being retired and looking for something to do, they would get so much out of volunteering here. A lot of our volunteers have been with us a long time which says a lot.
“Volunteering is open to anyone aged 16 and above who wants to help and can spare one or two hours every week or every fortnight.
“No experience is needed and full training will be given.
“Flexicare can also support with Duke of Edinburgh and Saltire Award qualifications.”
Paisley man Harry Paton, 63, started volunteering with Flexicare two years ago and is now a befriender to three men with autism.
He said: “I retired and was looking for something I could do. My wife Joan also volunteers and is a befriender.
“We go out once a fortnight. It’s their time, we do whatever they want to do. Every time we go out we have a laugh."
Tommy Ayton’s daughter Margaret, 55, still attends Flexicare groups and he’s been involved for more than 20 years.
The 85-year-old, from Johnstone, has been helping for a long time but formally started volunteering when he retired in 1999.
He said: “I just love doing it, I always have.
“I’ve no plans to stop.”
Kirsty Roache, 33, is a service user who’s been going to Flexicare groups for the last 19 years.
She meets with volunteer Margaret who takes her and another friend Heather out once a fortnight.
She said: “We go to Braehead, bowling, Silverburn and the cinema. We also went on days out during the summer to Largs and Stirling.
“I enjoy it.”
Her mum Elizabeth said: “Kirsty really enjoys it. It gives her a bit of independence and time to be with her friends and that’s very important.
“And it gives me a couple of hours break from being a full-time carer.
“All the staff and volunteers are wonderful, they’re absolutely great.”
Suzanne Carson, 51, from Renfrew is a volunteer befriender and her son Ewan, who has autism, also attends groups at Flexicare. She is on the fundraising forum.
Suzanne said: “My son said ‘Flexicare rocks’ when he first started going and that said it all.
“It’s a lifeline for him to get out and not be stuck in the house all the time.
“When you volunteer you do get a sense of satisfaction but you have to realise the commitment you’re making.
“I’ve been seeing Aileen for six years and I can’t imagine her not being in my life.”
Linda Lightbody is the service manager but started as a volunteer in 1996 before becoming a paid sessional worker.
She said: “So many people have started as a volunteer and gone on to work with us.
“I’ve seen lots of changes over the years.
“Society now is about being much more inclusive and people with autism and learning difficulties being much more involved in their communities.
“But 30 years ago Flexicare was promoting that, we were ahead of our time.”
To find out more about volunteering with Flexicare, check their website renfrewshire.gov.uk/flexicare.
You can also follow them on at their Facebook page, facebook.com/Flexicare30/.
