
# Guerlain revamps ‘Santal Royal’ with an extravagant Bee Bottle for its 5th anniversary

Published at: **2019-11-05T02:39:24+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Malaymail](https://www.malaymail.com/news/life/2019/11/05/guerlain-revamps-santal-royal-with-an-extravagant-bee-bottle-for-its-5th-an/1806997)

PARIS, Nov 5 ― The leading light of Guerlain’s Absolus d’Orient collection, “Santal Royal, is to celebrate its fifth anniversary with a sumptuous bottle by artist Tarek Benaoum. The new flask will be sold in an ultra limited edition of which only 22 numbered copies will be made.
A one-time graffiti artist who has developed a passion for writing, Benaoum presents works that mix symbols and calligraphy inspired by the Orient with contemporary urban touches. These eclectic influences are expressed in a highly personal calligraphy that intermingles symbols and signs to create a harmonious whole, which combines tradition and modernity with a heady dash of mystery.
To mark the fifth anniversary of its oriental woody fragrance “Santal Royal”, Guerlain has called on the talents and skills of the young artist to create a new version of its signature Bee Bottle. Rising to the occasion, Benaoum has come up with an unprecedentedly ornate version of the legendary container, which is entirely hand-painted, and thus essentially unique.
For each piece, Benaoum has adorned a spray-painted cobalt blue background with a hand-painted mix of arabesque and calligraphic designs in gold. As a final touch, the neck of each bottle has been decorated with a blue and gold cord by the French perfumer’s legendary “Dames de table” who apply the elaborate details to the house’s bottles.
Offered in a limited edition of only 22 numbered bottles, one litre of the latest “Santal Royal” retails for €10,000 (RM46,177). ― AFP-Relaxnews
