
# Dentist grabs terrified boy 'like a dog' and threatens to beat him in surgery chair

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:07:49+00:00**

Author: **Will Stewart, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-stewart/, Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/dentist-grabs-terrified-boy-like-20813831)

A dentist could be stripped of his licence after he was caught aggressively shaking a child before threatening to 'beat him' in the clinic.
Dentist Tolegen Mukhambetov was seen man-handling the seven-year-old boy 'like a dog' when he tried to remove his tooth.
CCTV footage in his Kazakhstan clinic shows Mukhambetov grabbing the boy from the dentist chair and throwing him back to be held by nurses.
The boy was terrified and struggled to sit still on the reclined dentist chair.
He then threatened to strike the child with an implement he brandished in a threatening manner in his left hand.
Two nurses did not seem to be concerned about the dentist's action.
 
Mum Kyzgaldak Saparova said she warned the dentist that her son was frightened of having his tooth out, reported Tengri News .
She said: "I was trying to persuade him to open his mouth for two hours.
"Three times we went into the room but he was so afraid and did not open the mouth.
"The last time the dentist aggressively told me to bring my son in - and immediately leave.
"I sat in the corridor and heard my son calling me – ‘Mama, mama’."
She was told by her son that the dentist beat him.
 
Upon reviewing the surveillance footage, Kyzgaldak reported the incident to the police as she described the dentist grabbed her son 'like a dog'.
She said: "I saw the dentist was aggressive with my son, he grabbed him, and threatened him with his tools.
“He grabbed him like a dog.
"I went to the police. I won’t let him get away with it.”
Police confirmed they are investigating the incident on Friday and have examined the boy for injuries.
Kaldymurat Aigarakov, deputy head of the Aktau Police Department said a forensic medical examination has been ordered for the presence of beatings to the child.
The dentist later posted a message confessing that he 'strongly shook and pulled the boy'.
The message read: "I did not beat him, but I did pull him strongly.
"I scared him a bit to make him sit. It was only for the sake of removing his tooth."
The dentist is being investigated under a law that could see him jailed for ten days or fined.
He also faces a probe by the regional health department which could strip him of his job.
Kuat Mashyrykov, director of the Mangystau Regional Dental Centre, said: "He confessed to his deed, immediately said that he was quitting on his own.
"According to him, he had good intentions.
"He wanted to help a sick child, but it turned out how it happened.
"During his work since 2017, he never got into such situations, complaints have never been received."
