
# Kia Futuron concept revealed

Published at: **2019-11-05T02:32:00+00:00**

Author: **Derek Fung**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805385/kia-futuron-concept-revealed/)

- shares
The Kia Futuron concept has been revealed at the 2019 China International Import Expo, which is currently under way in Shanghai.
With its long bonnet, swept back windscreen and short overhangs, the design of the Futuron's body wouldn't look out of place on a sports car concept. Except, of course, the Futuron is a coupe crossover which rides on a tall suspension setup.
The Futuron is one of those concepts that's more about future design themes rather than production intent, with the company saying it is a "strong statement ... for Kia’s future cars, which will be confident, sporty and modern, yet also elegant".
The automaker is especially proud of the Futuron's taut surfacing, ornament-free design and streamlined, flowing design.
It also has a new take on the company's signature tiger nose grille, which now stretches across the entire front of the vehicle, and a similar interpretation of the grille design could be used on Kia's future EVs.
The Futuron's grille includes a Star Cloud lighting field with a geometric patchwork of matrix LED modules, which gives the car a unique night-time signature, but is also said to emulate the scales of dragons from Chinese mythology.
While the concept looks quite compact in these photos, it's actually rather big, as it measures 4850mm long, 1550mm tall and has a 3000mm long wheelbase.
Kia says the Futuron features four in-wheel electric motors and a high-capacity battery, but hasn't provided any power, torque, performance or range figures.
The Futuron should have a bright and airy cabin thanks to a diamond-shaped panoramic glasshouse. The car's front seats are made from a flexible materials, which can be configured for an upright driving position or put into a laid back position similar to first- and business-class airplane seats.
There's also an interactive ambient lighting system with a dragon scale motif built into the door trim, while the ventilation system also features dragon scale-like elements which can be opened and closed.
Other features of the concept include Level 4 self-driving capability, and an AI-driven user interface system.
14
nextpreviousKia Futuron concept revealed
