
# Liverpool reveal controversial plans as Aston Villa Carabao Cup date announced

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:47:47+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-liverpool-carabao-cup-17205750)

Aston Villa will host Liverpool in the Carabao Cup quarter-final on Tuesday 17 December (7:45pm kick-off) – and the visitors have revealed controversial plans for the fixture.
The last eight tie has been the subject of a great deal of confusion because of Liverpool’s involvement in the Club World Cup.
The Reds play in the semi-final of the competition in Qatar a day later on the Wednesday and Jurgen Klopp previously threatened to boycott the Villa clash if a suitable arrangement wasn’t reached.
Today (Tuesday) Liverpool have confirmed their intention to play one team at Villa Park and a separate side 24 hours later in Qatar.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
In a statement posted on the club website confirming the settled date of the match at Villa Park, Liverpool wrote: “As a result, we will be utilising two playing squads simultaneously, with one squad participating in the FIFA Club World Cup in Qatar and another in the Carabao Cup.
“The club would like to take this opportunity to underline that while this is not an ideal scenario, it is an outcome which was arrived at with the best interests of the competition, our fellow clubs and ourselves as the sole motivating factor.
“We would like to thank the EFL for their efforts to accommodate us and we can confirm alternative dates were discussed, but ultimately none were considered suitable without compromising the scheduling of the competition itself or placing an undue strain on our playing staff.”
 
Villa beat Wolves in the fourth round while Liverpool won against Arsenal and Sky Sports have already confirmed the tie will be screened live along with Manchester City’s trip to League One Oxford United.
Villa lost 2-1 against Klopp's side in the Premier League on Saturday, with Trezeguet's opener cancelled out by late goals from Andy Robertson and Sadio Mane.
