
# Will Bristol really go ahead and ban diesel vehicles?

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:10:32+00:00**

Author: **John Curtis, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/john-curtis/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/motoring/bristol-really-go-ahead-ban-20827143)

DIESEL is the devil is a mantra trotted out by people just as readily as “we must get Brexit done” and is about as realistic at the moment.
I do not massively subscribe to the notion that diesel is the evil that it is portrayed to be and, with modern engines, it can run any fuel close on harmful emissions.
I am one of life’s realists and I get it that we have few viable alternatives to diesel for the heavier commercial vehicles and specialist machines that we need for living. To use a well-worn phrase, we are where we are.
While Scotland has the most climate change targets, it falls to England and Bristol to be the one local authority looking to grasp the thorny issue of diesel.
Bristol has got some seriously poor air quality and has had dangerously high levels of the gas nitrogen dioxide (NO2), most of which comes from diesel fumes.
   
This gas is responsible for irritating the lungs and causing respiratory problems such as reduced immunity to lung infections. NO2 can also make asthma significantly worse.
Bristol’s council has agreed to ban privately owned diesel cars from a central zone of the city during the daytime, while commercial vehicles will be charged to enter the area.
Under the proposal, which needs Government approval and would come into effect in 2021, taxis will be charged £9 and HGVs £100 to enter the clean air zone between 7am and 3pm.
I applaud any effort to improve the air quality and consequently the health and lives of citizens. What bothers me about the proposal from Bristol is that it just appears to be a way of making money.
At the moment, hauliers have no viable alternative to using diesel trucks. Deliveries will be made during the evening rush hour to avoid the £100 payment.
Scotland may not have jumped first to implement a diesel ban and I am glad of that. It will be interesting to see what Bristol decide to do and what impacts it has. Scotland needs to take a watching brief.
