
# Behind-the-scenes as BBC Sport sets alarm clocks for early hours rugby league international

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gareth Walker, https://www.facebook.com/GarethWalkerMirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-league/behind-scenes-bbc-sport-sets-20819404)

It’s 2.45am on Saturday morning, and the only people around the usually bustling Media City - bar security guards and two climate change protestors - are those involved with the BBC’s coverage of New Zealand versus Great Britain.
The time difference and fact that the match is the second in a triple header at Eden Park created a 4am UK kick-off time that is hardly conducive to anybody on this side of the world. But as a live BBC2 broadcast it still requires a significant cast to bring it to the half-open eyes of those rising early to tune in. For someone with two small children, being awake at this hour isn’t entirely alien, but watching others present to the nation is a somewhat different proposition to wearily sending one child or the other back to their relevant beds.
First to his chair on the studio table is Mark Chapman, who has become a popular anchor for the Beeb’s rugby league coverage in recent years. Much as with the other sports he presents, Chapman clearly knows his subject but allows his pundits to offer the telling insights into the game, while linking the coverage together seamlessly.
Even he is feeling the effects of the un-godly hour though, asking his social media followers if there is anyone out there reading his 3.11am post. Jonathan Davies uses a jet-lag comparison, before being joined by Denis Betts and Robbie Hunter-Paul, with all four discussing the team line-ups ahead of going on-air at 3.30am.
 
Upstairs in the gallery is where the technical side of things are put together. If you haven’t seen one of these before then it’s a bit like a scene from The Truman Show - a mass of television screens with people holding different conversations across the room. This being the relatively recently built BBC base, all the equipment looks pristine, even our seat in the back corner has brand new screens all around it.
Guided by long-term producer/director Sally Richardson, the BBC team are taking a world feed from the host broadcasters in Auckland while providing their own build-up and analysis from the Salford studio. Pre-match, the graphics team are making amendments for a late change to the Kiwi line-up, while Richardson and editor Michael Jackson - sporting a very rugby league flat cap - are in contact with producer Peter Small, who is in New Zealand working alongside commentator Dave Woods and pundit Brian Noble.
The passing of former Great Britain prop Hugh Waddell the previous day also means a tweak to the half-time schedule, although it ties in with an already-planned look back at the 1988 Lions win over Australia in Sydney, which the front rower featured in. Betts and Davies also played against Waddell and are able to offer their perspective into his remarkable career, which started with a chance trial at Blackpool.
Before kick-off though the focus is on an interview with Great Britain back rower John Bateman that Woods and Small have put together during the week, charting his success Down Under this year. While that is playing, editor Jackson spots Bateman giving a rallying call to his team-mates during the warm-up on the live feed, which is then clipped and added to the coverage as the panel discuss the Canberra Raider’s impact this year.
The production team are in constant contact with Woods in Auckland before the match kicks off, after which the focus in Salford starts to shift to what will be discussed at half-time. Next door, the video team (VT) are clipping together highlights as the game unfolds, with the Lions’ limited last tackle plays quickly established as a talking point, along with the quick feet of New Zealand’s Roger Tuivasa-Sheck. Stats from the match are relayed to the pundits as they prepare their interval analysis, which must be constructed with less material than usual from a rugby league international, with the try-less sides locked together at 2-2.
After that, when the highlights of Sydney 1988 are being played, the studio team cheer Mike Gregory home as if the match was being played live. The BBC's willingness to delve into rugby league's rich history in their broadcasts has provided a welcome feature for those rugby league fans frustrated by a notion that the sport was born in 1996 if you only watch Super League coverage.
The second half is spent back downstairs at the big white desk watching the remainder of the game alongside Chapman, Betts, Davies and Hunter-Paul, who clearly have a genuine rapport between them. Breaking down what’s unfolding on the field is interspersed with anecdotes from rugby league days gone by. Davies recalls an on-field incident involving Bradford full-back Keith Mumby and Hunter-Paul with Wigan’s Kris Radlinski, as they discuss the performance of man of the match Tuivasa-Sheck.
The last time a national side played Down Under in the 2017 World Cup, Betts was Wayne Bennett’s assistant, and his connection to the team remains evident as he watched their attack struggle to break down the New Zealand defence. Former Kiwi international Hunter-Paul is, of course, on the other side of the fence, and he has the only smiling face when Kenny Bromwich’s superb cover tackle prevents Jermaine McGillvary scoring a late equalising try.
Once the post-match analysis is done, the team immediately turn their attention to recording the highlights programme that will go out early afternoon, meaning dissecting the disappointing defeat - for Betts and Davies at least - a second time. Chapman raises the spirits though with his lead-in to the second broadcast, introducing “1994 Man of Steel Jonathan Davies, sat next to the 1995 Man of Steel Denis Betts… and Robbie Hunter-Paul”.
The former Bradford Bulls favourite takes it in good faith as always, before the team provide their assessment of what happened at Eden Park for those not setting their alarm clocks for unreasonable times.
Later that Saturday afternoon, a flick onto 5Live reveals Chapman somehow still broadcasting to his typically high standard as host of their Premier League coverage. The rest of us are trying our best just to stay awake.
* Follow Great Britain’s remaining two Tests against New Zealand (Nov 9) and Papua New Guinea (Nov 16) on the BBC.
