
# Barry Walker And Geoffrey Yeterian Co:Founders Dub Bros.

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Warren Bobrow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/warrenbobrow/2019/11/01/barry-walker-and-geoffrey-yeterian-cofounders-dub-bros/)

Barry Walker, co-founder Dub Bros. Warren Bobrow=WB: How did you discover cannabis? 
Barry Walker=BW: The alley behind our local laundromat at the tender age of 14.  
WB: Do you smoke? 
BW: Not anymore, I am currently 22 years sober. My life took a drastic turn after overdosing at 30 years old and waking up in the hospital. I got sober shortly after that and decided I needed to go down a different path. After launching successful businesses from antique furniture shops to spas, my life lead me back to cannabis. Noting my personal history, I initially had reservations about getting into the business. However, after doing a lot of research and talking to a lot of people, I soon discovered that Medical Marijuana was, in fact, one of the solutions to the Opioid Crisis and was effective in fighting multiple diseases including cancer and other ailments. After 8 years of being in the cannabis business legally, I'm very proud of the work we do.    
WB: Do you prefer indoor or sun grown outdoor? 
BW: I prefer to GROW indoors. There is a whole world of us Downtown Los Angeles Skid Row Farmers that aren't talked about as much. We are constantly growing top-shelf quality medical Cannabis strains.    
WB: What did you first want to be when you grew up? 
BW: Not sure yet, I’ll let you know when I get there!
WB: Tell me about your company? Dub Brothers was created by me and my brother Brent. Our last name is Walker, so The DUB's is what they would call us growing up. Brent is the Grower and I am a serial entrepreneur which has always made us a good combination. 
WB: What do you do?  
BW: Put out fires - Steer the Ship - CONQUER And CRUSH every opportunity that comes my way. 
WB: What is your six month and twelve month plans? 
BW: We have recently begun an aggressive expansion campaign. Recently, we made some key hires adding Geoffrey Veteran (CFO) and Tommy Gibbs (COO) to our executive team. Internally, we are rapidly expanding our brand house, both building on our original products and launching new ones which include: Tradecraft Farms, Tradecraft Extracts, Stickevape, and Better Days Bakeries. To further expand our curation of products, we have launched a brand incubator program with several brands already in the system. On the retail side, we have some big developments coming up with doors opening throughout the state which include our newest Tradecraft Farms dispensary location in Vista, CA which boasts an exterior paint job by famed artist RISK along with establishing a national presence with five Cali Roots dispensary locations in Oklahoma. 
WB: What obstacles are you facing right now? 
BW: Ha, good question! The funny thing about obstacles is you rarely see them until they are upon you. I consider this business more of a .com or start up business. Everyday its “ all hands on deck”. Everybody in my office better be prepared to do anything necessary to keep the ship afloat every single day.    
WB: How do you anticipate dealing with this? 
BW: WORK WORK WORK  
WB: What does a perfect state look to you in respect to your competition and market?  
BW: We feel very fortunate to be where we are in the industry right now. We are truly grounded in Cannabis Culture, starting from the bottom and climbing our way up the ladder to get to where we are now. The newer players that are coming in from other industries don't always understand the culture. Consumers are drawn to authenticity which is not something that can be bought. As a patient-driven company first and foremost, we know our customers and we know who we are.
WB: Do you have a favorite restaurant? Where? What type of food? 
BW: VEGAN BABY!!!  I've been a veggie for 33 years, all the way. I can take you to some of the coolest Vegan joints around Downtown Skid Row area and beyond. Save the Planet and eat your vegetables!!!
WB: What is your passion?
BW: Family, pure and simple. My wife and kids are my treasure. With them I am already the richest man in the world. 
I am also passionate about my community and giving back where we can. Every year during the holidays we host our 'potluck with a purpose' event, Gobble Gobble Give during Thanksgiving which fed over 32,000 homeless men, women, and children nationwide across 18 cities last year and is constantly growing with 20 cities participating this year! We also host Skid Row Xmas to raise money and gather supplies for the homeless community here in Los Angeles. Every year we have more caring people join us and make it what it is today. 

        Geoffrey Yeterian 
      
WB: How did you discover cannabis? 
Geoffrey Yeterian=GY: I first discovered Cannabis when my father who immigrated from Armenia told me at a very young age not to smoke "dope". Innocently I asked what "dope" was and he gave me a rather brutish explanation. Interestingly times have changed and he couldn't be more proud that his son is the CFO of a Cannabis company; in fact, he tells everyone that he meets, I think it has become his opening line. 
WB: Do you smoke? 
GY: Before joining Dub Brothers as CFO, I very rarely smoked. The handful of times I had smoked previously in my life, I never enjoyed the experience. I now realize my poor experience was purely due to poor quality cannabis that left a bad taste in my mouth and was probably ridden with other bad elements. However, at Dub Brothers, we grow indoor hydroponic organic flower and manufacture a truly one of a kind product that is actually a mini cigar of cannabis. We are the only ones in the industry to do so and I have found that I immensely enjoy the experience now. It has become a Sunday evening ritual to enjoy a glass of bourbon and one of our cannabis cigars. I try to reserve smoking for special occasions when I can sit back and enjoy the ritualistic experience. 
WB: Do you prefer indoor or sun grown outdoor? 
GY: I only smoke our indoor organic flower. It's the only way to guarantee a consistent and truly high quality product. I prefer to let my wine grapes grow in the sun, not my cannabis. 
WB: What did you first want to be when you grew up? 
GY: A policeman, so that I could always protect my family. 
WB: Tell me about your company? What do you do? What is your six month and twelve month plans?
GY: Dub Brothers is a completely vertically integrated Cannabis Multi State Operator. From seed to sale, everything is done in house. The foundation of our business is growing high quality indoor hydroponic organic flower in some of the best strains available. Manufacturing, processing, distribution and retail are performed in house as well. Over the years we have developed one of the most sophisticated supply chain infrastructures, while simultaneously developing 2 incredibly well respected brands, Stick E Vape and TradeCraft Farms. As we continue to grow, our business becomes more concentrated around becoming a "brand house", akin to other businesses such as LVMH, Kering Group, Nestle, etc... As CFO, I am focusing on institutionalizing our business to achieve enterprise level standards, while also driving our continued expansion across the USA and creating one of the industries first incubator programs. 
WB: What obstacles are you facing right now? How do you anticipate dealing with this? What does a perfect state look to you in respect to your competition and market? 
GY: Right now our greatest challenge is cash flow management given the explosive growth and high taxation across the industry. We are dealing with this through critical planning and strict budgeting. We will also raise growth equity in the next 9-12 months to help continue our expansion across the US. The perfect State in my eyes would be a highly regulated State where licenses are awarded based on the strength of the application and merit, combined with reasonable business taxation. 
WB: Do you have a favorite restaurant? Where? What type of food? 
GY: My favorite restaurant is Cafe Pushkin in Moscow for dinner at 1am. Nowhere else in the world can you step back in time to a bygone era and experience the hospitality and cuisine of the 1800s. 
WB: What is your passion?
GY: My family. We're big, we're Armenian and we are a pain to deal with.
