
# Kai Havertz responds to transfer speculation amid links with Man Utd

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:33:29+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/kai-havertz-responds-transfer-speculation-20821379)

Kai Havertz believes he has what it takes to play for clubs outside of Germany as the Bayer Leverkusen star continues to be linked with a move to Manchester United .
The German midfielder is widely considered one of the most talented players in Europe and is expected to be one of the most in-demand players in next summer's transfer window.
The Red Devils are reportedly considering a potential £80million move for the 20-year-old, who scored 17 goals in the Bundesliga last season and has two to his name so far this campaign.
Havertz has also been linked with the likes of Liverpool , Manchester City and Barcelona , and refused to rule out a move abroad, despite insisting that he remains focused on the current season.
"I think I've picked up enough international experience at Leverkusen," he told Spanish publication Marca in an interview.
"I know the rhythm of these international matches and I'm confident that I can go abroad at any moment and play at clubs outside of Germany.
"For the moment, I want to have a good season. Afterwards, we'll see."
Havertz is also attracting plenty of attention from teams within Germany, with defending Bundesliga champions Bayern Munich among those thought to be most interested in the youngster.
"They're probably the biggest club in Germany and there are many players that were very successful at a young age that went there," he added. "Therefore, I get linked with Bayern, but we'll see what happens.
"There are players that want to stay close to their family and others say, 'I want to live in another country'.
"There's something clear: if you want to be a star in Germany, you can't go wrong with Bayern."
Havertz is expected to in action when Leverkusen host Atletico Madrid in the Champions League on Wednesday, with Peter Bosz's side still yet to pick up a point in Group D.
And despite slipping to a 1-0 defeat in their first meeting with Diego Simeone's side, the midfielder is confident things will be different this time around.
"We're playing at home and our own fans give us a bit of a boost," added Havertz, who is yet to open his goalscoring account in Europe this season.
"Now we know, after the first game, how they play. I think we did quite well at the Wanda Metropolitano.
"We have a big chance to get something out of this game."
