
# Six secrets unearthed from an ancient village

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Shyam Prasad S**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/six-secrets-unearthed-from-an-ancient-village/articleshow/71881562.cms)

Inscriptions discovered near Humcha village kalyani include a rare Nishadi for a woman F or those unacquainted with historical academics, the Humcha (Hombuja) village in Shivamogga’s Hosanagara is an unknown place. However, of late historians have been getting excited about this ancient village all over again. In the last few days, six new inscriptions were discovered from here -- all of which are in or around a kalyani (sacred pond) built at the mouth of the Kumudvati River. Humcha was the original capital of the Santara dynasty, a vassal of the Kalyani Chalukyas and later of the Hoysalas and Vijayanagara. It merged into Keladi and later Mysore kingdoms. It continues to be one of the popular Jain pilgrimage centres in Karnataka. So far, 37 documented inscriptions have been discovered in the village and its surroundings. Last month, the Karnataka Itihasa Academy held its 33rd annual conference at Humcha. It drew a large number of historians and enthusiasts to the place between October 18 and 21. HR Panduranga, an officer of the Agriculture Department from Chikkamagaluru, and a member of the Academy, was one of the participants. He along with other Academy members Vemgal Murthy and Mutturaj discovered an inscription in the Kalyani describing it as ‘Kumuda Hole’. The discovery drew officials to the place. R Shejeshwara Nayak, the assistant director of the Archealogical Museum in Shivamogga, visited the Kalyani on November 1 and ended up discovering five more inscriptions in one day. The village that had 37 documented ancient inscriptions now has 43. The most important among the five is a Nishadi (Jain memorial for those who give up life following rituals) inscription. The speciality is that it is dedicated to a woman, a rarity. “The part of the inscription with the image the person who underwent Nishadi is broken. In the remaining part, the image of a Jain monk preaching the woman and a Tritankara seated on a Lion throne. The inscription is in Halegannada (Old Kannada) and is six lines long,” Nayak said. The inscription has a Jain prayer followed by information that Bomma Santi Deva was the Mahamanda-leshwara when the woman underwent Nishadi. Bomma Santi Deva was a vassal of the Kalyani Chalukyas in the 12th Century. There is another ruler named Bommarasa in the 13th Century. They could therefore be two different rulers. The woman who underwent the Nishadi is not identified but could be named Priyamma or Piriyarasi, says Nayak. Four other inscriptions were found on the steps of the Kalyani. These contain only numbers and some words. Nayak says that going by the script they are post-Vijayanagara and coulud be from the 17th Century. “The numbers and words pointing to directions suggest that the Kalyani was rejuvenated and reset. Numbers and directions are marked on stones when temples or structures are renovated. It helps to put them back in the same place. It was a popular method used in earlier centuries,” he said. A statue of Kushmandini Yakshi (a Jain Goddess) found lying near the Kalyani has been shifted to the Shivappa Nayaka Palace Museum.
