
# World of Warcraft: Shadowlands revealed at Blizzcon 2019

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:46:25+00:00**

Author: **Aodhan Gregory, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aodhan-gregory/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/world-warcraft-shadowlands-revealed-blizzcon-20791680)

The next big expansion for World of Warcraft has been announced and will take players back into the grip of the undead. Blizzard announced the new expansion on the 15th anniversary of the acclaimed massively multiplayer online role-playing game, during the opening ceremony of Blizzcon 2019. Titled World of Warcraft: Shadowlands, players are set to enter a realm the series has never gone to before. In leaked photos during the run up to the event, Blizzard was rumoured to be bringing back The Lich King for the series' eighth expansion and it seems fans were right to be excited.
The cinematic trailer opens with Sylvanas returning to Icecrown Citadel, where the current Lich King Bolvar resides. Bolvar Fordragon , who was a revered paladin for the Alliance, took on the mantle of the jailer of the damned in the third expansion to keep the Scourge at bay.
 
Sylvanas and Bolvar fight, before the Banshee Queen takes his crown and cracks it open, causing a rift to open in the sky, bringing forth what appears to be the Shadowlands, an alternate dimension of death and decay. "This world is a prison," Sylvanas says with a grimace. "And I will set us all free."
And what can gamers expect from Shadowlands? “Shadowlands is taking us somewhere we’ve never dreamed of going in the Warcraft universe, and that’s incredibly exciting,” said J. Allen Brack, president of Blizzard Entertainment.  
“We can’t wait to explore the great beyond, catch up with old departed friends, and forge an epic new chapter in the Warcraft saga together with our players,” he added. One of the key features of the newly announced expansion will be choosing a Covenant, where players will be called upon to forge a bond with one of four factions that rule the new zones.
As they level up, they’ll get new abilities based on their choice, including class-specific abilities for each Covenant. Shadowlands will also introduce a level squish to shake things up for players and bring a more meaningful sense of advancement.
Current max-level characters will begin Shadowlands at level 50 and work toward the new level cap of 60.
Pandaren and all allied races will also be able to become Death Knights in the new WoW expansion alongside a host of new appearance options.
World of Warcraft: Shadowlands is available for pre-purchase digitally from the Blizzard Shop starting today, with three different options all designed with player preference in mind. The Base Edition of Shadowlands is available for £34.99, providing a new lower entry point compared to previous expansions. The Heroic Edition £49.99) includes the expansion; a level-120 character boost; and the Ensorcelled Everwyrm mount, which provides access to a questline through which players can earn the Vestments of the Eternal Traveler transmogrification set. The Epic Edition (£69.99) includes the Anima Wyrmling pet; the Wraithchill cosmetic weapon effect; the Eternal Traveler’s Hearthstone, designed with a unique visual effect; and 30 days of game time, in addition to all of the contents from the Heroic Edition. All bonuses from the Heroic and Epic Editions are unlocked immediately upon pre-purchase. In addition, pre-purchasing any edition of World of Warcraft: Shadowlands will open the ability for players to create pandaren and allied race Death Knights once the Visions of N’Zoth content update for the current expansion, Battle for Azeroth™, arrives in the coming months.
Shadowlands is scheduled to launch next year and is available to pre-order today.
