
# KZ ventures into acting, compared to the Superstar

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:19:48+00:00**

Author: **Eugene Asis**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/entertainment/showbiz/kz-ventures-acting-compared-superstar)

In the movie, she plays a call center agent in Davao named Carisse, an ultra-guarded and feisty girl.KZ plays opposite Epy Quizon, playing a fortyish man named Jake who has been living in a world of emptiness despite spending years of flirting and one night stands.
Experiencing mid-life crisis, Jake decides to find a girl and start a long term and meaningful relationship. He meets Carisse who is repulsed by his confidence. The attitude made him more strangely attracted to the younger woman.
Since the main character lives in Davao, KZ is a like a fish thrown into the water as she has to deliver her lines in Visayan. "Natuwa ako kasi Bisaya talaga ako," she says.
And her acting? "She underwent several workshops," says director Jourdan Sebastian. "And surprisingly, she was very good in her exercises."
In fact, Epy, who's known as a no-nonsense actor, unabashedly compares KZ's brand of acting to Superstar Nora Aunor's. "I know, maba-bash ako, pero 'yun talaga ang nakita ko sa kanya."
Nora, like KZ, started as a singer before being discovered as a great actress.
Meanwhile, Epy veers away from his usual serious characters like Apolinario Mabini in "Heneral Luna" and "Goyo: Ang Batang Heneral" as he plays the flirty, funny, fresh Jake in the movie.  
For the movie, KZ wrote and performed two songs, Quicksand and Walanghiyang Pag-ibig.
"The Art of Ligaw" will be preemed tonight at Trinoma Cinema 7.
