
# Eerie pictures inside UK's 'most haunted prison' HMP Gloucester where Fred West was jailed

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:59:57+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/eerie-pictures-inside-uks-most-17189119)

Creepy photos have surfaced showcasing the prison branded the 'most haunted' jail in the UK.
The Midlands prison, where serial killer Fred West was once locked up, is situated in Gloucester - and dates back 200 years.
Eerie pictures show the state of the decaying HMP Gloucester, in Gloucestershire, where depraved West was housed.
Pictures have also surfaced of the serial killer's cell, after the jail was shut down back in 2013.
The closure of the site came after years of complaints - ranging from moans about inhumane conditions to fears of overcrowding.
HMP Gloucester dates back to 1791 and was built on the site of a castle dating back to the 13th century.
Since being launched as a decommissioned prison, the tours of the renowned jail have proved successful.
Ghostly voices and footsteps have been recorded and one investigator claims to have seen a shadow figure on the site.
The Gloucester Paranormal Investigation Services team do not leave the site disappointed.
The prison was a Category B men's prison and was closed in 2013.
 
Lead investigator Ed Francis said: “We went into the chapel area which is between the B and C wing of the prison. We asked if there was anyone there that could give us the sound of footsteps.
“It happened on request and we asked again and it did it again on request. It is fair to say that we were really excited when it did it the second time when we asked.”
Some months ago the team had conducted an investigation of the C-wing in the prison. One cell in particular is said to be very haunted.
Lead investigator Paul Cowmeadow said: “We were in cell 16. It is said to be very haunted. Last time we conducted an investigation there we captured on audio a spirit swearing, telling me to go away.
“I went back in to that cell and was talking out loud to whatever was in there and we captured him talking again.
“I was saying that he had told me to do one last time I was there and asked if he could do it again.
“We caught him on the audio saying ‘prove it’. We are pretty certain it is the same voice that we captured before.”
 
A new area that they investigated was the processing room at the prison.
The pair were drawn to the boiler room to set up investigation equipment.
Ed said: “We set up a structured light sensor. This picks up the figures of people similar to what an XBox Kinect would.
 
“On this night we were doing a live feed of the investigation. The SLS system manages to pick up any figures on the screen and shows them as stick men.
“We were shocked to see a clear image of a stick man on the screen. We asked if it would raise its leg and it did on request and then vanished.
“The caretaker of the building during the live feed told us that there was no electrics in the room. This means that there was no impact from other sources that could have made or affected the image on the screen.”
