
# Sokratis wary of hungry Leicester ahead of must-win clash for struggling Arsenal

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Neil McLeman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/neil-mcleman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/sokratis-wary-hungry-leicester-ahead-20835888)

Sokratis has declared Arsenal have to beat “hungry” Leicester on Saturday to avoid slipping out of the Champions League race in November.
Defeat at the King Power Stadium could see Unai Emery's side fall nine points off the pace for a top-four place.
Arsenal have won only one game since the international break and failed to protect a lead in their last four matches.
And the Greek defender said: “It’s a very big game, it’s a game we have to win. Of course we have a lot of games in front of us and if we see last year, we were there but in the last seven games we didn’t win one.
"We need to be consistent all year, not only one month. Leicester is in a very good moment, they’re a very hungry team. You can see this. We have to be ready to beat them.”
Arsenal, who won only three of their last eight matches last year, have sacked Granit Xhaka sacked as skipper and promoted Sokratis' former Borussia Dortmund team-mate Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang to the role.
“I think it’s the first time he is a captain,” said the £17m defender.
“For me it’s more important that Auba scores, he has to do his work. Who has the captaincy is not very important. It’s important that all the team is good in the dressing room. We are like a family.”
Kieran Tierney has admitted that drawing their last four matches from winning positions is “not good enough and something we need to work on”.
Unai Emery is under increasing pressure – with Jose Mourinho touting himself for the job - but the £25m summer signing insisted the blame lay with the players.
“It is up to us as players to correct it on the pitch,” said the former Celtic defender. “For me, he (Emery) has been brilliant since I’ve come in.
"I have learned a lot. Everybody in the changing room has got belief in each other and the manager.”
