
# Roll it there, Róisín: A look back at the life of Gay Byrne after his death at 85

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:01:00+00:00**

Author: **By Liz Dunphy**

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/showbiz/roll-it-there-roisin-a-look-back-at-the-life-of-gay-byrne-after-his-death-at-85-961821.html)

Gabriel Mary 'Gay' Byrne, the man who would later dominate Irish media and smash open the country's most controversial taboos, was born on August 5, 1934, in Dublin's northside.
Willing to defy authority from a young age, Byrne bought a "licentious" jazz record at the age of 14 which was banned at the time by Radio Éireann.
It was with that station that Byrne would soon realise his dream of working in broadcasting, when in 1958 he started playing jazz, reading the news and working in continuity.

        'We will never see his like again': Tributes paid as Gay Byrne dies aged 85
      
He became the first broadcaster to introduce The Beatles on TV after moving to Manchester to work with Granada Television.
He later worked with the BBC before returning to Ireland in 1969 to work full-time for newly-formed Irish broadcaster, RTÉ.
At RTÉ he presented and produced ground-breaking TV with The Late Late Show between 1962 and 1999, breaking many of the country's most important news stories, challenging the previously all-powerful Catholic church, and opening up discussions on taboos such as contraception, homosexuality, AIDs, abortion and divorce.
It became the world’s longest-running chat show.

        It started on the Late Late Show: Gaybo's most controversial moments
      
Some of the most famous Late Late Show interviews include a journalist revealing her longstanding affair with then-Taoiseach Charles Haughey, and when Byrne interviewed an American woman, Annie Murphy, who had a son with Bishop Eamon Casey.
In what became known as the Bishop and The Nightie scandal, in 1966 Byrne asked a married man what colour nightie his wife wore on their honeymoon.
The woman replied that she may not have worn any at all, which led to widespread outrage and a protest from The Bishop of Clonfert.
The man affectionately known as 'Uncle Gaybo' has been widely credited as a catalyst in opening up an often closed and repressive Irish society.
A household name, Byrne's catch-phrases like 'roll it there, Róisín' and 'there's one for everyone in the audience' became stalwarts of the Irish vernacular.
Byrne "had more influence on changing life in this country than any of the political leaders," this paper has previously reported.
Thousands of loyal listeners called in to his long-running and award-winning radio show first known as The Gay Byrne Hour and then The Gay Byrne Show which aired on RTÉ Radio 1.
Over his long and illustrious career, he also presented the Rose of Tralee, which he said "tooraloo" to in 1994 after presenting it for 17 years.
