
# Facebook's new corporate logo is as boring as they come

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:26:09+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/facebook-will-spread-its-new-corporate-logo-around-its-apps?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Facebook
      
On November 4, Facebook separated its parental corporate entity from its ubiquitous social network app and service, creating a new (and boring) logo that will identify all Facebook-owned properties. The new logo is a simple all-caps text representation in a custom font. Other than that, there's not much else to say about it.
In a blog post, the company admits that users of its services don't always realize they are using Facebook-owned sites. While the company had its corporate brand on hardware like the Oculus VR gear and the Portal smart display, the new logo will be spread with "from Facebook" messaging across all of its apps — including the original Facebook app, Messenger, Instagram, WhatsApp, Oculus, Workplace, Portal, and Calibra.

        Source: Facebook
      
Per Facebook's Chief Marketing Officer, Antonio Lucio:
Facebook explains that these apps and services have shared technology and even personnel on the backend, and now the company wants to "be clearer about the products that come from Facebook." The new logo will appear on press releases in the future, as well as headline a new corporate website.
Video chat powerhouse
Facebook has breathed new life into what we consider high-quality video chat, but it struggles to put that experience in a compelling smart display.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        TikTok Ring Ring The company that owns TikTok created a smartphone for China ByteDance, the company that owns the social network service TikTok, has released a smartphone for the Chinese market with a TikTok lock screen feature.
      

        Speaker optional Nest Wifi now available, here are your buying options Google’s second-generation wireless home router goes by a new name, Nest Wifi, and its range extender now features a built-in Google Assistant speaker. The single and two-pack options are now available, but which is best for you?
      

        New patch The November 2019 security patch improves the Pixel 4's 90Hz display Google is pushing out its November 2019 security patch to Pixel devices, with one of the highlights being improvements to the Pixel 4's Smooth Display feature.
      

        How it should be Which wireless headphones charge via USB-C? Want to buy a pair of headphones that charges with the same cable as your phone? Here are all the best headphones we could find that support USB-C charging.
      
