
# Pussycat Dolls to announce comeback on Celebrity X Factor with surprise group performance

Published at: **2019-11-04T03:09:51+00:00**

Author: **Sofia Petkar**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/pussycat-dolls-announce-comeback-celebrity-20806011)

The Pussycat Dolls are set to make a spectacular comeback later this month with a surprise performance on X Factor : Celebrity.
According to The Sun, judge Nicole Scherzinger will use the show to unveil the band’s return before taking to the stage with her bandmates for their first gig in more than a decade.
A source claimed: “The X Factor ­producers approached Nicole about the idea of performing with the girls and she jumped at the chance.
“It’s going to be their first big ­performance of the reunion and will be extra special for Nicole because of her role in the show.
“Having the Pussycat Dolls perform is a real coup for Simon Cowell and he has told Nicole to pull out all the stops to make sure their routine gets people talking.”
The Pussycat Dolls, made up of Nicole, Meoldy Thornton, Kimberley Wyatt, Ashley Roberts, Carmit Bachar and Jessica Sutta, split officially in 2010, with the girls going on to solo projects with varying degrees of success.
Their reunion is set to mark the band’s 20th anniversary and will see them embark on a mega tour of the UK and Europe.
While the reason behind the band’s split have never been confirmed, rumours flew that Nicole had been at the centre of the band’s unhappiness.
According to Carmit, excessive favouritism of Nicole caused series tensions in the group, with claims that the lead Pussycat’s secret ambitions of a solo career also damaged relationships.
The same sentiment was echoed by Ashley during her stint on ‘I’m a Celebrity’ in 2012, when she revealed: “Even in the group, I wasn't allowed to talk, we were told to be quiet. Only Nicole was allowed to talk. We would occasionally pitch in."
Continuing to vent her frustrations, Ashley also revealed that nothing in the group was fairly done, adding: “Why do you think the band broke up? U2 are still together and they split everything down the middle.”

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
