
# WWE Superstars Continue Twitter Revolt As Saudi Arabia Flight Finally Lands

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alfred Konuwa**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/alfredkonuwa/2019/11/03/wwe-superstars-continue-twitter-revolt-as-saudi-arabia-flight-finally-lands/)

WWE Superstars are in full-on revolt mode as preexisting employee morale issues have come to a head following an ill-fated delayed flight back from Saudi Arabia.WWE Superstars reportedly arrived safely in JFK Airport Friday afternoon at 12:52 pm EST, but despite their plane finally landing, tensions remained high.
Coming out of Thursday’s Crown Jewel pay-per-view in Riyadh, many WWE Superstars felt deserted in Saudi Arabia by Vince McMahon, per Dave Meltzer of Wrestling Observer Radio, after the Chairman left with his personal staff on an earlier flight. With some WWE Superstars insisting they “can’t wait to get out of the company,” it is still unknown whether or not McMahon was aware of the flight issues upon leaving on his private jet with his personal staff.
Also among those avoiding the Saudi flight delays were Brock Lesnar, Hulk Hogan, Jimmy Hart, Ric Flair and Tyson Fury, who reportedly flew on private aircrafts as well.
Various WWE Superstars disputed WWE’s earlier statement that “several Superstars felt so strongly that they arranged for their own separate charter in order to make it back to the U.S. for the show.”
In addition to disputing these reports, some felt insulted by WWE seeming to infer that those who were stranded were “too lazy” to make other travel arrangements. Producer Tyson Kidd and WWE Superstars Eric Young, Curtis Axel and Scott Dawson all took swipes at WWE’s statement, with AEW world champion Chris Jericho even chiming in to stir the pot, facetiously writing “Shame on you lazy embarrassments to the company...Glad everybody made it home safely! [sic]”
Time hardly healed all wounds since the last round of Twitter frustration amid the Saudi Arabia flight delays as even more WWE Superstars took to Twitter to vent after finally landing home, a far cry from the “gratitude” described in WWE’s much more whitewashed account of what was a Saudi Arabian nightmare.
Hierarchy issues arised as #Top20 became a talking point. The stranded WWE Superstars clearly felt that other top stars scheduled to appear on Friday Night SmackDown were prioritized over them.
With the WWE travel schedule only continuing to intensify—WWE Superstars are set to travel to Europe next week—there will be no rest for the weary. This latest episode of questionable treatment of talent has once again opened up the longstanding (but always fruitless) conversation of a pro wrestlers union.
Oh, to be a fly on the wall in the Raw locker room on Monday in Uniondale.
