
# Samsung Galaxy S11e leak hints at significantly improved battery life

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:31:48+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/samsung-galaxy-s11e-leak-hints-significantly-improved-battery-life?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Samsung's next-generation Galaxy S11 series phones are shaping up to be very impressive upgrades over this year's Galaxy S10 series. A new leak now suggests the Galaxy S11 series will not only come with some significant upgrades in the camera department but may offer much better battery life as well.
The folks over at GalaxyClub have discovered a listing for a new Samsung battery with the model number EB-BG980ABY on South Korea's Safety Korea website. As per the model number of the battery, it is going to be used in an upcoming Samsung smartphone with the model number G980. The Galaxy S10e bears model number SM-G970, so there is a good chance that the SM-G980 will arrive as the Galaxy S11e.

        Source: Safety Korea
      
The image included in the listing isn't high-res, but we can still see that it is rated at 14.36Wh. Since it operates at 3.85 volts, the minimum capacity of the battery would be 3,730mAh. Its typical capacity, on the other hand, could be somewhere around 3,900mAh. The Galaxy S10e has a 3,100mAh cell.
Chinese tipster Ice Universe has noted that the different shape of the Galaxy S11e's battery suggests the smartphone will have a new motherboard design as well. He has also suggested that the bigger Galaxy S11+ may arrive with a 5,000mAh battery, which would be a significant upgrade compared to the 4,100mAh battery found inside the Galaxy S10+.
