
# North Carolina man arrested for impersonating cop after pulling over murder suspect at gunpoint, police say

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:28:59+00:00**

Author: **Nicole Darrah**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/us/north-carolina-man-police-impersonation)

A North Carolina man was charged with impersonating a police officer after he allegedly joined the real deal in chasing down – and seemingly arresting – a murder suspect last month.
David Adams, 30, was taken into custody Wednesday in connection with an incident that unfolded around 11 p.m. on Oct. 5, when officers stopped five people in a car outside a grocery store in Wilson. Police reportedly believed one of the vehicle's occupants was a murder suspect.

        
          LOUISIANA WOMAN ACCUSED OF WRITING STUDENTS FAKE DOCTOR'S NOTES FOR $20 EACH
        
      
When officers approached the vehicle, however, the car took off, WITN reported. Cops chased the vehicle for a couple of miles before a man, later identified as Adams, driving a black Ford Taurus with blue lights sped past them and intervened — reportedly cornering the suspect's vehicle between his car and the pursuing officers.
Adams allegedly ordered the driver out of the vehicle at gunpoint and handcuffed him. Wilson Police Department officers weren't sure who Adams was or if he was a law enforcement officer, so they ordered him to stop searching the suspect.
The 30-year-old eventually left the scene, but on Wednesday was charged with impersonating a law enforcement officer, online arrest records indicate.

        
          CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
        
      
The five people inside the vehicle that Adams helped stop were also reportedly arrested – by actual police officers – on various charges.

        The Associated Press contributed to this report.
      
