
# Fans Google Jesus as Kanye West's Gospel-Rap Album Drops, Prompting Free 'Bibles for Fans’ Offer

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:24:52+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/world/201911031077212354-fans-google-jesus-as-kanye-wests-gospel-rap-album-drops-prompting-free-bibles-for-fans-offer/)


        Kanye West's gospel-rap album, "Jesus Is King," dropped Friday after many release date shifts. West's IMAX movie of the same title was scheduled for release the same day, promising to bring his famous Sunday Service to theatergoers.
      
Google searches for "Jesus" and the query "What do Christians believe?" are reported to have spiked after Kanye West's gospel-rap album, "Jesus Is King," dropped on Friday, reported Fox News.
Besides the fact that the album has many biblical references, West himself, a born-again believer, recently shared that he reads his Bible before going to bed.
Now, the American Bible Society wants to give that same opportunity to those who've heard the album and are displaying an interest in Christianity.
The ministry, which was started in 1816, launched "Bibles for Kanye Fans" to "aid those with questions by offering free access to the Bible," giving away up to 1,000 copies of the Good News Translation for free.
Dr. John Farquhar Plake, the organisation's director of ministry intelligence, was quoted by Fox News as saying:
American Bible Society's annual "State of the Bible" survey found that 61 percent of millennials said they're curious about the Bible.
West's personal pastor, Adam Tyson, the senior pastor of Placerita Bible Church outside of Los Angeles, has been leading him in a Bible study since August and has been preaching the gospel at Sunday Service events, most recently in Los Angeles Sunday.
As the long-awaited album by West was released, many fans went online to share their sentiments on God and the Church stirred by the rapper’s music.
