
# Top Hong Kong Restaurants To Try Now

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **George Koutsakis**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/georgekoutsakis/2019/11/07/top-hong-kong-restaurants-to-try-now/)

The holiday season is coming and many will be visiting the bustling city of Hong Kong for some shopping, bar-hopping, and food. Lots of food! Restaurants open and close daily on the streets of Hong Kong, the scene is nothing if not competitive. But here are some top choices for your next visit to Hong Kong, from European cuisine, to local delicacies, here are some of the top restaurants to visit in Hong Kong right now.

        Felix – The Full Package
      
The Peninsula Hotel in Hong Kong is an institution, a timeless standard, so unsurprisingly Felix, the hotel’s most well-known restaurant has made it onto the list. In a nutshell, you’re left wanting for nothing after an evening at Felix.
Chef De Cuisine, Juan Gomez, delivers a culinary experience bursting with Mediterranean flavours and modern European influences. Over at the bar, Marko Petrovic, the head bartender at Felix, mixes up balanced concoctions to pair with each course, taking your palate to the next level. Enjoy bubbly cocktails, twists on classics, and Petrovic’s very own creations. Liquid olives, caviar and scallops, and Kagoshima beef all leave a lasting impression, best washed down with Marko’s Trilogy, an assortment of Champagne-inspired cocktails.
What more could you ask for? Well, the view from Felix, which looks over the Kowloon Bay makes the experience even better, best enjoyed while chewing on the delicious manchego cheese lollipops featured on the current seasonal menu.

        Bo Innovation – A Taste Of Hong Kong
      
Led by superstar chef, Alvin Leung, Bo Innovation is a staple in Hong Kong’s culinary scene, currently holding three Michelin Stars which the restaurant has held since 2014.
Bo Innovation takes you on a journey through Leung’s memories of traditional, raw, and vibrant Hong Kong. Candy from decades passed and flavours of dim sum, noodles, and street food all make an appearance, presented in the most fun and interactive way. One course gives you a card with images of dishes; poached chicken, sticky rice dumplings, wonton noodles, and other Hong Kong classics. Then bite-sized dishes are served and visitors are asked to pair the bites, which are shaped to throw you off, with each depicted dish. Another course is street food, literally, made in front of you from a cart. The whole experience is fun and playful, and without realising it, you’ll have learned so much more about Hong Kong’s culture and food than you expected.
A truly amazing experience worth every star. At such an affordable price, I recommend you choose the wine pairing menu, as the sommelier has designed a balanced list to complement the dishes.

        OKRA Hong Kong – Japanese Omakase At It’s Finest
      
Wait, there’s much more the okra dishes here!
In the slower-paced area of Sai Yin Pin stands Okra, one of the most underrated Japanese sushi and omakase restaurants in Hong Kong. Most know of the casual, bustling izakaya on the ground floor where guests can enjoy an assortment of vegetable, fish, and meat dishes.
But few know of the upstairs omakase restaurant, which takes guests on an entirely different culinary journey. Chef Max Levy produces an assortment of nigiri with his own rice blend of Gohyakumangoku sake rice and Koshihikari rice. Carefully selected cold dishes are followed by seasonal nigiri and sashimi servings, with the menu finishing off with some hot dishes, and a light dessert. All this, paired with a carefully curated sake menu make for an unforgettable experience.
Guaranteed, you’ll taste fish varieties you’ve never tasted and aged, rare types you probably won’t come by again. A must for any sushi lover.
