
# Arsenal's three managerial candidates rated and slated as pressure grows on Unai Emery

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:32:21+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenals-three-managerial-candidates-rates-20806442)

Pressure is starting to grow on Unai Emery and despite the Arsenal boss being reassured that his job is not under threat, speculation continues to link some big names to the Emirates.
Jose Mourinho's name has cropped up more than most, with the former Manchester United boss apparently open to the idea of managing the Gunners.
But other names are in the mix, including Mikel Arteta and Massimiliano Allegri.
Arsenal have won just two of their past nine matches in the Premier League and fans are starting to turn on Emery.
The Spaniard does have time to turn things around at the Emirates, but should he fail to do so he may be ousted by one of the three names mentioned.
Here we take a closer look at each manager and weigh up the pros and cons for Arsenal.
Arsenal fans need no introduction where Mourinho is concerned, having watched their team come up against his Chelsea and Manchester United sides over the years.
The Portuguese is an out-spoken and often controversial character and even once clashed with the relatively placid Arsene Wenger.
In terms of the pros, Mourinho knows the Premier League like the back of his hand and has a good grasp of what's required to be successful in the division.
He's a born winner with a burning desire to win silverware, and will be looking to taste glory as quickly as he can.
In terms of the cons, the Portuguese likes to spend big to achieve his goals, which could be a problem at Arsenal given the club's lack of financial firepower compared to the rest of the Big Six.
He will also, as aforesaid, look to win trophies from day one and will sign players who have 'already made it' rather than build for the future.
It's not a major issue, as most Gunners supporters are keen to win silverware, but it goes against the club's values and could therefore see Mourinho overlooked.
Like Mourinho, Arsenal fans are already familiar with Arteta.
The Spaniard played for the club from 2011 to 2016 before going into coaching and joining Pep Guardiola's staff at Manchester City , where he has helped the team to two titles.
Arteta was right in the mix to get the Arsenal manager's job first time round before the club decided to hand Emery the keys.
In terms of the pros, Arteta knows the club. He knows the staff, the players and the philosphy.
He's had great training under Guardiola at Manchester City and has seen first hand what it takes to turn a top four team into one of the world's best.
Arteta would also relish having the opportunity to manage Arsenal, and could have a Frank Lampard affect by uniting the team.
In terms of the cons, Arteta has no experience in management - let alone at a club the size and stature of Arsenal.
It would be a big risk for the board to remove Emery - a man with an impressive trophy cabinet - and replace him with someone unproven and it could quickly go more 'Ole Gunnar Solskjaer' than Lampard.
Arsenal supporters will know less about Allegri than the other two candidates, but will have heard of his name nonetheless.
Allegri dominated Italian football with Juventus for five straight seasons before going on a sabbitical.
He's ready to return to the game, and has reportedly been learning to speak English in preparation of getting a job in the Premier League.
In terms of the pros, Allegri is a proven manager at the highest level.
He's won six Serie A titles - one with AC Milan - and knows exactly what it takes to instil a winning style and manage the best players in the world.
In terms of the cons, Allegri has no experience managing in the Premier League, and why would he necessarily be any different to Emery?
Like Emery, Allegri has won trophies on the continent, but whether this translates is anyone's guess. After all, managing a team like Juventus is similar to managing a team like Paris Saint-Germain (Emery's last job before Arsenal), given their standing in their league.
And Allegri could struggle with the re-build job at Arsenal in the same way Emery is.
