
# Adnan Siddiqui overjoyed by memes on 'Mere Paas Tum Ho'

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:03:40+00:00**

Author: **Entertainment Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2093944/4-adnan-siddiqui-overjoyed-memes-mere-paas-tum-ho/)

Drama serial Mere Paas Tum Ho is continuously receiving massive backlash over its controversial dialogue in the episode that was aired on Saturday. However, it seems the protest has somehow transcribed into an increased popularity for the cast, according to some members at least.
Humayun Saeed’s dialogue, “Is dou takay ki larki keliye aap mujhe 50 million derahay thay? – You were paying me 50 million for this worthless woman?” was addressed to Adnan Siddiqui after she cheats on him. The dialogue prompted a series of memes mocking the serial, with several social media users condemning it, especially after the writer, Khalilur Rehman Qamar’s controversial statements.
Initially actor Ayeza Khan came forward, giving a heads up about the episode to prevent any kind of retaliation. “Don’t watch the episode of Meray Paas Tum Ho tonight, you will hate me forever,” she stated before it was aired. Given that the drama seems to be glorifying misogyny and objectification of women.
However, recently actor Adnan Siddiqui, who plays the antagonist in the serial, posted a viral meme of the dialogue on his Instagram, with what appears to be an appreciation post.
“Haha good one! But the amount I offered to Danish was inclusive of taxes. Smart businessman, you see! Thank you everyone for appreciation and watching Mere Paas Tum Ho, please continue showing your love.”
This prompted further discussions on the instance of the serial, while the writer is currently being bashed for justifying sexism and misogyny in real life.
