
# Tom Holland Shares Chilling First Look At New Movie Cherry

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:15:33+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483679/tom-holland-shares-chilling-first-look-at-new-movie-cherry)

Written By
Not too long ago, we gave you an update regarding actor and all-around good guy Tom Holland, and how he’d shaved his head for a role in the upcoming crime drama Cherry. Naturally, the internet went absolutely nuts about it, and in some corners, we’re sure people haven’t recovered over the Spider-Man actor’s haircut just yet. If you’re one of those people who fall into that category we just mentioned, you may want to avert your eyes, as we now have our first look at Holland’s character in Cherry, and it’s something else!
Take a look below, but you’ve been warned:
It'd be an understatement to say that this new look Tom Holland is sporting for Cherry is weird. It seems like only yesterday we saw a fully locked Holland bringing Spider-Man: Far From Home into the record books, and playing a key part in reuniting his web-slinging hero with the rest of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. And it’s probably a good thing that happened to, because now we have a look at just how pissed off Holland might have looked, should his efforts have failed.
All kidding aside, Cherry is even more of a project of interest when you take into account how Tom Holland is reuniting with Avengers: Endgame directors and former MCU powerbrokers Anthony and Joe Russo, who are directing this adaptation of the infamously published novel by Nico Walker, as part of an ambitious post-MCU slate. And it truly is infamous, as Walker sold the book while he was serving a prison sentence for committing the acts that led him to write this semi-autobiographical novel.
Much like Nico Walker, Cherry’s unnamed protagonist served as an Army medic in Iraq, only to return home and develop an opioid addiction. That in turn lead to a life of crime, robbing banks in order to fuel his habit. So if you thought the haircut was the worst part of Tom Holland’s transformation for this film, there might be even more harrowing moments ahead that don’t show in the Instagram post above.
Though if we can return to one more joke before closing, this definitely looks like a side of Tom Holland that isn’t afraid to spoil all the secrets of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Maybe that’s why the Russo Brothers took the project on in the first place. They needed to make sure their boy didn’t snap and spill the beans! This version of Holland looks like he’ll drop all the key plot points to all of your Marvel Studios favorites just as he’s reaching to shake your hand. And that handshake? Totally a gut punch. Surprise, suckers; Tommy Boy’s gone rogue!
While that’s not remotely true, it still makes for a fun conversation while waiting for further looks at just what mayhem Cherry will bring to theaters. We still don’t know when exactly the film will drop in 2020, or even if it’ll still drop in that same year, as production seems to have just started in October. But as soon as we have further information, we’ll report back at once. In the meantime, you can see what is headed for theaters next year, by reading our 2020 release schedule.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
