
# Some Nest Hello owners have been stuck with Halloween-themed sounds

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:15:44+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/google-nest-hello-owners-stuck-spooky-sounds?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Google Nest Hello doorbell owners who wanted in on the Halloween spooky spirit were haunted by their choice for almost a week after the night ended. Some Google Nest doorbell owners reported to Android Police that they were unable to resume normal operation after the option to change themes disappeared from the Doorbell settings app on both iOS and Android, as well as from the web interface.
Google has already worked out a fix and says that owners will see an update shortly. The company still plans on releasing more theme sounds in the future, though perhaps zealous owners will think twice before committing to turkey gobbles every time someone shows up for dinner.
Frankly, it's hard to imagine a worse holiday for this to happen. Certainly, Christmas music would be repetitive, but a week of carols in your house is no worse than at the mall, the office, the car, and everywhere else. Perhaps if Valentine's Day created a moist kiss doorbell that would be more annoying, but spooky noises and screams probably take the cake for worst doorbell option for November.
A cool way to ring a doorbell
The Nest Hello is an outstanding connected doorbell that really shines when paired with other Nest products. Buy one before the holidays for immersive home entry.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        One eternity later Hey Google — why hasn't my Pixel 4 gotten the November security patch? The Pixel 4 is Google's latest flagship smartphone, so why is it still stuck on the October security patch?
      

        🐠🐡🐟🦈 Something fishy's going on: How Google names in-development Pixels Did you know your Pixel phone was named after a fish? Check out the faces behind the names for Google's Pixel line.
      

        Smarter Smart Screens You no longer have to ask your Google Smart Display when a photo was taken Google Photos on smart displays now shows the date and the length of time since a photo was taken. Huzzah!
      

        Hello, you're covered The best covers and wall plates for your Nest Hello doorbell Keep your Nest Hello protected from the elements or make it stand out one your home with a cover or a wall plate.
      
