
# 1,868-Strong

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:45:05+00:00**

Author: **Joe S. Antonio**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/sports/other-sports/1868-strong)

A total of 1,115 athletes and 753 coaches and officials make up the contingent which plunges into action in 56 sports with winning the overall championship for the second time in 14 years in its own soil foremost in its mind.
According to the Philippine SEA Games Organizing Committee (Phisgoc), the final number may still go down when the delegation registration meeting is held on Nov. 19. But based on experience, the official total number always increases come gametime.  
“I believe this team will perform well and do the nation proud,” said Philippine Sports Commission chairman and chef de mission William Ramirez, sounding confident that the ‘Miracle of 2005” will be achieved again.
A bevy of magnificent athletes will be in the PH roster, like world gymnastics champion Carlos Yulo, world boxing titlist Nesthy Petecio, Olympics silver medalist Hidilyn Diaz, while an assembly of basketball pros will carry the colors in the nation’s most beloved sport.  
Fourteen years ago in front of their countrymen, the Filipino athletes won the overall title after falling short in 1991, bagging 112 gold, 85 silver and 93 bronze medals in a staggering haul that left the perennial contenders like Indonesia and Thailand settling for the crumbs.
Many-time overall titlist Indonesia is sending the second biggest delegation with 1,702 athletes and officials while Singapore is third with 1,591, followed by Thailand with 1,473, Malaysia with 1,076, Myanmar with 952, Vietnam with 890, Cambodia with 510, Laos with 419, Brunei with 257 and Timor Leste with 221.  
A total of 530 gold medals in 56 sports will go up for grabs in a number of venues scattered in Metro Manila and nearby provinces during the 12-day sporting showpiece, the biggest in this region of 11 nations.
Ramirez said the Philippine team, is capable of winning 90 to 100 gold medals based on the assessments and medal projections made by national sports association officials during a meeting recently.
It’s virtually sky is the limit for national teams since they’ve gotten all the funds they asked for from the government sports agency as far as money for exposure and overall training is concerned.   
“The PSC spent for all the training, especially the foreign exposures of the athletes for the SEA Games,” Ramirez said. “We hope to find Olympic-grade athletes from them as well as the Tokyo Games are also just around the corner.”
Meanwhile, former POC president Jose Peping Cojuangco felt slighted by a statement made by a Malaysian sports leader insinuating that the Philippines used its home court advantage to win the overall championship in 2005.
Cojuangco, who was the POC president at that time, challenged the Malaysian official to prove his allegation.
