
# Pledge made to finally develop Shieldmuir Station Park & Ride

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ross Thomson**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/pledges-made-shieldmuir-park--20815436)

Network Rail have committed to finally building a Park and Ride facility at Shieldmuir Station early next year.
Residents buying their new homes nine years ago were promised a Park and Ride facility at Shieldmuir with 103 spaces which was reduced to 25 in 2010.
Following a meeting with former MP, now the SNP’s candidate for the upcoming General Election, Marion Fellows, the rail company, and property developer Taylor Wimpey, have confirmed they want to get the project back on track in January.
Mrs Fellows said: “Residents around Shieldmuir station now have clear commitments from Network Rail on improvements to their area.
“I have always been committed to being a community focused MP and if re-elected in December, I want to continue this work and get progress for communities on the issues important to them.
“Residents have fought for the Park and Ride and waited long enough for it.
“Even though progress is finally being made, promises have been broken and I share residents’ anger.
“Answers must now be provided as to why spaces were reduced and a serious look at a larger facility.
“If we want to encourage more people to use public transport and tackle climate change, then these facilities are essential.”
The site will have two charging points for electric cars, bike parking, and CCTV.
Taylor Wimpey have agreed to look into why the number of spaces were reduced and whether more spaces can be added.
