
# Regina's musicality thrills new RSO concertmaster

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:00:56+00:00**

Author: **Joe Couture**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/life/queen-city/reginas-musicality-thrills-new-rso-concertmaster)

Christian Robinson believes Regina is an “extraordinary” city for classical music and he’s “thrilled” to be part of contributing to the city’s legacy, in the role of concertmaster for the Regina Symphony Orchestra (RSO).
“Regina has a really amazing reputation as a musical city in classical music circles,” Robinson said in a recent interview. “The orchestra is the longest continually operating orchestra in the country, and there have been successive waves of amazing classical musicians that have come from Regina. This city should really take pride in what the RSO is doing.”
The path that led Robinson to Regina began years ago, when he first picked up the violin at just three years of age. Growing up in Pickering, Ont., Robinson, now 40, described himself as “not exactly the model violin student” — with his reluctance stemming from a hatred of practising. But that changed in his teenage years.
“I started playing more interesting music and just fell in love with the art form, with these great masterpieces I was starting to come into contact with,” he said. “It just seemed like there was this really limitless world to explore in terms of the music itself.”
By his later high school years, Robinson had moved to Whitby, Ont., and knew he wanted to spend his life pursuing classical music. He had inspiring teachers both in high school and later when studying at the University of Toronto, where he completed his Bachelor of Music (Violin Performance) in 2002.
His love for chamber music, in particular, “exploded” during his time at university. The next stop on his journey was Sudbury, Ont., where he founded the Silver Birch String Quartet (SBSQ) in 2004, while he was also working with local orchestras and teaching students in private lessons.
The SBSQ received a lot of acclaim — including a Juno nomination in 2010 — and was busy with recording, touring and events. Being on the road for long stretches of time eventually became a challenge for members of the ensemble, and led to Robinson considering the next chapter for himself — which would turn out to be Regina.
“Regina made a big impression on me, and it was always really intriguing,” he said, noting visits he had made were positive and musicians he had worked with — such as former RSO maestro Victor Sawa and current principal cellist Simon Fryer — spoke highly of the city.
“When the time came that it looked like I needed to make a change from my life in Sudbury, there was a principal second violin position open here,” Robinson continued. “Regina seemed like this perfect blend of really wonderful colleagues, a great city and a nice mix in the job of things that I find really interesting — the variety of work that happens here, that’s the thing that really drew me.”
Current RSO music director Gordon Gerrard was also a factor — he had just taken on the position, and in 2016 spent a week in Sudbury working with the orchestra there.
“Gordon really sealed the idea for me that Regina and the RSO really has a lot going for it, and it seemed like it was entering a really exciting time and was something that I would love to be a part of,” Robinson said.
After his first year, the concertmaster position opened, and Robinson was appointed interim concertmaster while a search took place via a year-long series of trials where short-listed candidates performed with the RSO.
“I felt really humbled to even be included in the search and then to actually win the job, I was just ecstatic,” Robinson said. “It was a real highlight of my career, I have to say. I feel really lucky with what we’re getting to do here in Regina. It’s a pleasure to go to work every day with my amazing colleagues.”
In addition to his role as concertmaster, Robinson is also busy with the Regina Symphony Chamber Players (RSCP), a group of 12 of the RSO’s principal musicians. Their activities include visiting schools and presenting a concert series at Government House.
That role is a “hugely fulfilling” part of the job, especially considering his particular passion for chamber music going back many years, Robinson said. The first violin has an unofficial leadership role within chamber music, which dates to the history of the concept of concertmaster in the 17th and 18th centuries, he explained. However, the RSCP operates democratically and makes decisions collectively, Robinson noted.
“We’re able to explore this amazing wealth of music that’s written for smaller ensembles,” he added about the RSCP and his role there in addition to the main orchestra. “It really is the complete package from a job perspective.”
He is also actively involved in other aspects of music in the community, including as co-director of the Regina Summer Strings.
“We’re all very aware that we’re stewards of this legacy and we’ll keep putting everything we can into it and keep moving it forward,” Robinson said. “I think the RSO is engaged in all the right conversations about what it means to be an orchestra in the 21st century.”
One of those questions is what motivates people to go out and take in events like concerts, in a day and age when they have so many entertainment options easily accessible at home and on their phones, Robinson said.
“The experience of seeing something live and witnessing this amazing creation happening right in front of your eyes, that’s something a video can’t reproduce,” he said. “There’s an amazing energy and dynamic — all of these things feed into creating this really memorable experience, and I think my colleagues and I are of one mind in committing that we want to deliver the best of that experience to the audience.”
Robinson believes Regina residents have “an incredible sense of pride” for their orchestra, which strives to offer “something for everyone” with its wide variety of different shows.
“We’re all standing on the shoulders of people who have this deep and amazing history in this city that we are the stewards of, and our hope is to leave things in better shape than when we got them and move things forward so that when it’s time for us to step back, there’ll be this unbroken lineage of artistic excellence that the city will have,” he said. “I think we all feel that amazing responsibility.”
Robinson is also a big fan of Regina on a personal level, having settled in the Cathedral neighbourhood with wife Julie, seven-year-old son Linden and their Labradoodle named Cosmo. His mom, Colleen, has also moved to Regina.
“The family loves Regina,” he said. “It’s a great place for us to be and we’re just feeling very happy here. There’s a really great vibe to the neighbourhood and we just feel this wonderful sense of community around us. Looking at all the cities of sort of similar size that I’ve visited, I’ve just never felt so welcomed as I have in Regina. The people are absolutely wonderful.”
RSO principal trumpet Miles Newman, who has been with the orchestra since 1991 and worked with about half a dozen concertmasters over that time, said he believes Robinson has the right set of qualities for the role.
“He is very skilled and he has a great energy,” Newman said. “The position needs someone who is an ambassador for the orchestra. Concertmasters we’ve had in the past have had that skill and I think Christian fits into that mold very well and is a likeable guy.”
Music director Gordon Gerrard also spoke highly of Robinson and his fit for the roles of concertmaster and with the RSCP.
“Not only do you have to be a terrific player, but the concertmaster is a leader of the players and often acts as a go-between, between the conductor and the rest of the orchestra,” Gerrard explained. “You have to understand how people work and the psychology of an orchestra and facilitate operations so that everybody does their best. Through the search that we did, we all felt like Christian was the best fit.”
According to Gerrard, “a lot rides on that position in terms of the health of an orchestra” and he considers the RSO fortunate to have Robinson in that leadership role.
“Everyone in the orchestra would agree that he cares about people in the orchestra,” Gerrard said. “It’s not just about getting the job done, it’s about getting the job done in a way that makes people feel comfortable to do their best.”
Gerrard and Robinson are also on the same page when it comes to re-examining the role of an orchestra within a community, the music director said.
“In 2019, I think the expectation that people will just flock to come and hear Beethoven and Mozart has changed,” Gerrard said. “It’s about how we change as an institution so we better reflect who is in our community and what they might want to hear, and what a particular piece of music might mean to them. The rule book is slowly being rewritten, and we’re all trying to figure this out together.”
The city is fortunate to have high-calibre musicians like Robinson who are passionate about revitalization and their role in the community, Gerrard continued.
“I think people don’t realize they bring a lot to the community,” he said. “Teaching when they’re not playing with the orchestra, that helps to build the musical community of Regina. Playing in other groups outside the RSO, that enriches the cultural fabric of the community. The RSO supports these artists so that they can help build a richer life for all of us in southern Saskatchewan.”
