
# I Love Housework. Let Me Explain.

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:03:02+00:00**

Author: **Juan Vidal**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/02/opinion/sunday/household-chores.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

I don’t know when my passion for certain household chores began. I think mainly of the small things, the quiet and seemingly mundane duties that bring me pleasure; sweeping, folding laundry, washing dishes. Then there’s the act of ironing. The satisfaction of seeing cotton, silk, linen and even denim smooth out and straighten gives me a kind of strange, existential high. I approach these chores like a spiritual discipline, on par with fasting and prayer. There’s something about the careful consideration required to do them well that puts me at ease.
I imagine that, for some, specific chores carry negative childhood associations; their parents ordering them to clean their room, take out the garbage and so forth. There is nothing particularly sexy about dusting off bookshelves or scraping eggs off a pan. But I relish aspects of domestic maintenance for some of the same reasons I enjoy sitting with a novel: Reading satisfies my desire to be alone for healthy stretches while also connecting me to others and their stories. Similarly, ironing my son or daughter’s outfit for the day connects me to them and reminds me in some small way that we’re not alone in this world — that somebody cares.
I was raised by a single Colombian mother who taught us to value what we have and to serve those around us. Like many immigrant parents, she did what she could to supplement income whenever the opportunity came, often working three jobs at a time to support our family. One of those jobs was cleaning houses for wealthy families in Coral Gables, a tony suburb of Miami.
She cleaned two or three houses back to back about twice a month. On weekends when she was scheduled to work, she would leave my brothers with a friend. Because I was the oldest and required less attention, I went along with her. I’d watch Spanish-language soap operas on big screens, eat bags of candy and drink Pepsi while she worked. My mother was always deliberate in her process. Whether it was hemming dresses or mopping floors, she had a grace about her that, even then, I thought beautiful.
In between all these other demands, she still somehow made ample time to care for us and keep our own home uncluttered. As a parent, I now understand my mother’s need to maintain a neat and comfortable space more. On some days, I vacuum the basement with the methodical detail it might take to perform a heart transplant. I stick to a rhythm, a routine that starts at the door to each room and goes in a circle, covering every square inch.
But I’ll admit that my need for tidiness can border on obsession. It can be a crippling, compulsive itch that at times means I can’t relax until I have completed a series of simple tasks. It’s as if my mind can’t function at full capacity until my body has organized its surroundings into something acceptable. I’ll come home from work, kiss my family, and immediately see to it that the sink is empty and the floors are swept. My wife will tell me to sit down, to please, for the love of God, take a load off. Eventually I snap out of it and heed her advice.
It can be all the more daunting if you earn your living through any creative work. For example, if I’m working from home, I cannot sit down to write a single word until everything around me is just so. Until my little world looks and feels right enough that I can shut that part of my brain off and enter into writing.
Recently, we had a group of friends and their children over for a barbecue. Everyone was swimming and eating and enjoying the sunshine. I was also tending the grill, throwing away trash, and keeping my station clean with millimeter precision. Later that night after everyone had left, my wife asked if I had had a good time. Of course, I told her. She pointed out that I didn’t look relaxed and was repeatedly picking up after everyone. I feared that my incessant straightening up had given off the wrong impression.
In “The Second Sex,” Simone de Beauvoir wrote: “Few tasks are more like the torture of Sisyphus than housework, with its endless repetition: the clean becomes soiled, the soiled is made clean, over and over, day after day.” I can relate. But I’m learning that maybe it’s O.K. to let things get a little messy. And so, tomorrow I plan to leave the bed unmade and ignore a few crumbs on the floor and the counter. But I’m not sure I’ll be happier for it.
Juan Vidal is the author of “Rap Dad: A Story of Family and the Subculture That Shaped a Generation.”

        The Times is committed to publishing 
        
          a diversity of letters
        
         to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some 
        
          tips
        
        . And here’s our email: 
        
          letters@nytimes.com
        
        .
      

        Follow The New York Times Opinion section on 
        
          Facebook
        
        , 
        
          Twitter (@NYTopinion)
        
         and 
        
          Instagram
        
        .
      

        Continue reading the main story
      
