
# The Women Who Helped Shape LBJ’S Administration

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jeryl Brunner**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jerylbrunner/2019/11/05/the-women-who-helped-shape-lbjs-administration/)

The play The Great Society takes place after Lyndon B. Johnson has won a landslide presidential election. His administration was at the epicenter of a monumental era that would transform history. The Civil Rights Movement was generating serious heat. There were the deaths of Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy. The war in Vietnam was spiraling out of control.
At a time when women were expected to remain silent in the background, some strong women helped shape the Johnson administration. Lady Bird Johnson and Coretta Scott King were forces in their own right. These women are featured in The Great Society. In this Lincoln Center Theater production, which was written by Robert Schenkkan and directed by Bill Rauchalong, they are spotlighted along with Pat Nixon and Sally Childress, a fictional character who is loosely based on the president’s real life assistant Geraldine Whittington. (Whittington, was the first African American woman to be a secretary for a president in office.)
Barbara Garrick, Nikkole Salter and Angela Pierce who respectively play Lady Bird Johnson, Coretta Scott King/Sally Childress and Pat Nixon offered their insight to these great women and what it is like to portray them. For all the actresses, it was an opportunity of a lifetime that continues to inspire them and they hope to impart that sense of possibility. “Coretta Scott King says ‘Freedom is never really won. You earn it and win it in very generation,’” observes Salter. “I hope people see our show and get a sense of the contingency of our collective future and decide to do the work that is necessary to preserve and manifest the values outlined in the American creed.”

        Jeryl Brunner: Can you talk about some of the great works these women did on their own?
      
Nikkole Salter: Coretta was valedictorian of her graduating high school class. That’s right. Despite violent racist acts like having their home burnt to the ground by jealous arsonists, Coretta’s parents were able to provide both their daughters with an education that led them to receive scholarships to college in Ohio. In Ohio Coretta first joined the freedom fight, launching a campaign for fairness in her music education program that relegated her internship to a segregated school. She was not allowed to teach in the school closest to the university community. While she ultimately lost that fight, she took the issue all the way to the president of the university, only to find that his views on race were not that different from the racists in her hometown in Alabama. 
During her 14 year stint in the civil rights movement with Martin Luther King she had the presence of mind to create and maintain an archive of all of her husband’s contributions to the movement. She knew that the national historical narrative was whitewashed and would probably not reflect the truth of their experience if she left it in the hands of others. She saved everything. EVERYTHING. She fought to maintain her husband’s legacy after his assassination through the creation of the King Center. She fought to have a national holiday in his name. She fought to have a memorial honoring him and his works on the national mall. She spent the rest of her life devoted to non-violent liberation of all oppressed people. 
Barbara Garrick: As First Lady, Lady Bird became the first president's wife to advocate actively for legislation when she was instrumental in promoting the Highway Beautification Act. It was nicknamed, "Lady Bird's Bill.” It was developed to beautify the nation's highways by limiting billboards and planting roadside areas. Her environmental work continued throughout her life. Lady Bird also was an advocate for the Head Start program to give children from lower income families a step up in being ready for school. In 1982 Lady Bird and the actress Helen Hayes founded the National Wildflower Research Center as a nonprofit organization devoted to preserving and reintroducing native plants in planned landscapes. In 1970, she published A White House Diary which is an account of her husband's presidency from November 22,1963 to January 20 1969.
 Angela Pierce: Pat Nixon was a pioneer. She was the first First Lady to visit a combat zone, the first to visit Africa and the first to visit a leper colony. She assisted in many goodwill missions across the world. For 25 years she was the most travelled First Lady in United States. She was known as “Madame Ambassador.” Her strength of character and determination was self-made. Her mother died when she was just 12 years-old. Then she had to assume the care of household responsibilities. Then five years later she lost her father to silicosis. She built a foundation of strength and endurance. It made me even more respectful and appreciative of her tenacity of spirit and strength of character. This brave girl/woman prevailed.   
Brunner: Is there something you wish you could ask the character you play?   
Salter: I wish I could ask Geraldine what she thought of LBJ. I wonder what their relationship actually was, what she thought of him, and how her opinion changed as his presidency evolved. I would ask Coretta if she could teach me how to build and nurture faith and if she thinks that faith was the virtue that allowed her to make it through. I'd ask her, if she could do it all again, knowing where we are now, if she would? Or if she would do it the same way? I'd also ask what she thought she could have done differently to keep her youngest child from the trauma of her father's assassination that followed her and stifled her well into adulthood.
Pierce: Pat Nixon actually didn’t want her husband to throw his political hat in the ring again when running for President. I would like to ask how did you truly feel and react when your husband said he was running for President? Also, what was your reaction to hearing the news from your daughter that Richard was resigning after the Watergate scandal, rather than hearing it from Richard? I found that one of the most complex inner workings of their partnership. It’s a real sticking point for me. After all that, he didn’t tell her himself. Why?  
Jeryl Brunner: How did your character use her power to influence the state of the nation?  
Salter: Coretta had a substantial amount of influence over the thinking and execution of strategy within the civil rights movement because of her closeness to Martin Luther King. She was responsible for helping her husband. She interrogated his writing, researched supporting scripture for his sermons and edited manuscripts. But she also was responsible for raising money for the movement and for the needs of her family. As a classical vocalist, who was trained at the New England School of Music, she abandoned her desired career as an international concert singer to marry and build a family. She parlayed her musical skills and talents by producing Freedom Concerts for the SCLC to raise money. As the movement grew in size and influence, Coretta was programming the likes of Nina Simone and Harry Belafonte. She sang right along side them, earning tens of thousands in donations.
Sally Childress, [the fictional character is loosely based on the president’s real life assistant Geraldine Whittington], used the power of her position to inspire other African Americans to break barriers. It was not lost on her that she was a "first" and that her performance would impact the possibilities for many African American women who could follow. She was known for her rigor at work, and was featured in prominent African American publications where she presented herself with dignity.

        Brunner: If someone were to ask, why should I see The Great Society, what would you say? 
      
Pierce: See The Great Society to get a strong understanding of the sacrifices and ultimate compromises people made who believe in freedom of speech, voting rights and equality. To this day we all must uphold and maintain these rights. We should fight for the continued acknowledgement of these essential principles of life. But it MUST start with ALL of us. In oder to thrive we must understand that we have agency and can become stronger.  
