
# Meghan Markle 'wasn't begged for a date by Ashley Cole,' says his brother

Published at: **2019-11-03T01:10:03+00:00**

Author: **Elaine McCahill, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/elaine-mccahill/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/meghan-markle-never-came-close-20800192)

Ashley Cole's brother has said reports the ex-footballer begged Meghan Markle for a date are "nonsense".
The former Suits star reportedly revealed she was being pursued by Cheryl Tweedy's ex in an interview with a UK based journalist nearly six years ago.
Lizzie Cundy has also claimed she tried to set Meghan up with Ashley after his split from Cheryl in 2010.
She said the pair got on "like a house on fire" at a charity event and Meghan revealed she was looking for a British boyfriend.
Lizzie explained: "She wanted to find a boyfriend. She said 'I would like a British boyfriend'."
 
When Lizzie asked if she wanted a celebrity, Meghan replied: "Why not?"
But Matty Cole told The Sun: “It’s nonsense, completely made up. He definitely wouldn’t have to beg Meghan Markle for a date.
“She’s not the kind of girl he goes for anyway, and he’s never fancied her.”
However, the showbiz journalist at the Mail Online claims Meghan showed her the messages Ashley had been sending her.
 
She wrote: "[Meghan pulled an] iPhone from her handbag, she pointed to the picture of a good-looking man on her Twitter account, and said: 'Do you know this guy, Ashley Cole?
"'I bet,' I said calmly.
"She continued: 'He wants to go out on a date while I'm over here in London. What do you think? Do you know him?'"
At the time Ashley was playing for Chelsea and earning around £100,000 a week.
But in the UK he was known as pop princess Cheryl's ex, who had a roving eye reputation. Meghan, who knew nothing about his cheating past, was swiftly informed - and decided to swerve a date with the footie ace.
She said: "Some of my friends told me to stay away from him, too. I think I'll leave it."
Meghan, then 32, had just divorced film producer husband  Trevor Engelson , and was meeting up with UK journalists in a bid to get a mention in press the other side of the pond.
She went on to meet Prince Harry on a blind date and the couple wed in 2018.
Their first child, Archie, was born in May.
