
# Anupam Kher faces widespread ridicule as old tweet critical of Home Minister linked to Amit Shah amidst extraordinary protests by Delhi Police

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:59:04+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/anupam-kher-faces-widespread-ridicule-as-old-tweet-critical-of-home-minister-linked-to-amit-shah-amidst-extraordinary-protests-by-delhi-police/271640/)

Bollywood actor Anupam Kher’s past social media posts critical of the Congress government came to haunt him hits week as members of Delhi Police took to streets demanding justice against violence committed by city’s lawyers. Since the Delhi Police is directly controlled by the Indian home ministry currently led by Amit Shah, Kher’s old tweet critical of the Indian home minister came to haunt the veteran actor.
Delhi Police personnel surrounding their own headquarters questioning the leadership of their bosses was unprecedented. What made the matter worse was another protest held by some of their relatives near India gate even as some police personnel threatened to march towards the home ministry.
While India witnessed these extraordinary protests staged by police personnel and their relatives, the opposition Congress questioned the whereabouts of Home Minister Amit Shah, who was conspicuous by his silence. Terming the development ‘a new low’ in the history of Delhi, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala asked, “Where is Amit Shah?” Soon #WhereIsAmitShah became a top trend on Twitter.
As Twitterati began trending the hashtag #WhereIsAmitShah, some users dug out an old tweet of Kher poking fun at the then home minister in the Congress-led government in 2013. Kher had written, “Home Minister of a country is supposed to make its people feel safe & secure. I wish I could say the same about our Home Minister.”
