
# Sony claims PS5 is the easiest console to code for

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis White**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/sony-claims-ps5-is-the-easiest-console-to-code-for/)


        Sony’s upcoming PS5 may be a safe bet for next-generation developers as Sony is claims it’s the easiest platform to code for.
      
Speaking to GamesIndustry, Sony Interactive Entertainment’s CEO Jim Ryan revealed that developers and publishers are finding the system easy to create for.
“One thing that makes me particularly optimistic that what we’re hearing from developers and publishers, is the ease in which they are able to get code running on PlayStation 5 is way beyond any experience they’ve had on any other PlayStation platform,” Ryan told the website.
Ryan’s interview revealed a new formation of company focus for the next generation. Whilst the international branches of Sony have worked together, they have often been at odds.
For once, Sony’s international teams are working synergetically. Since the launch of PlayStation 4’s Spider-Man, Sony has become a more cohesive collaboration in the run up to PS5.
“It’s a great game obviously [Spider-Man], but it also ended up as PlayStation’s bestselling first-party game,” he said. “It was one global campaign conceived and executed in an outstanding manner, as opposed to three different regional campaigns that are often executed very well, but the same thing in essence done three times.”
Following the success of the Spider-Man title, Sony instantly acquired the studio behind the title. Sony is confident going into the next generation, they’re also looking to expand their teams.
“We are always looking, but we are careful about who we look at and talk to,” he said. “Buying studios right now is a very expensive undertaking. It is most definitely a seller’s market.
