
# Environmentalists, writers, politicians among mourners at Dr Tun Lwin's funeral

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Hsan Htoo Aung and Pyae Phyo Aung**

Original: [Eleven Media Group Co., Ltd](https://elevenmyanmar.com/news/environmentalists-writers-politicians-among-mourners-at-dr-tun-lwins-funeral)

 
Among those who attended the funeral of Myanmar's famous meteorologist Dr Tun Lwin were environmentalists, writers and political forces.
The funeral was held at Yayway Cemetery in Yangon on November 6 evening.
"His life history involved environmental affairs and protection of the environment of Myanmar. We feel empty in that sector without him. But he left a lot of knowledge to new generations. They have to continue their journey," said one environmentalist Dr Myint Zaw.
Writer Ledwintha Saw Chit recounted his accompany with Dr Tun Lwin in talks and seminars, describing him as a role model for young people.   
Myint Maung Kyaw, an environmental activist, said: "As you know, all love him. We understand that we all have the duty to share the knowledge he gave us."
Those from various fields including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi sent piles of wreaths to the funeral.
Dr Tun Lwin, aged 72, died of at Gran Hantha International Hospital at 6.75 pm on November 4.
He was born in Myingyan, Mandalay Region, on January 17, 1948. He joined the Department of Meteorology and Hydrology in May 1965 when he was just 17 years and four months old. He obtained a degree in Physics with all distinctions in 1971.
He also served as a private teacher under the name of Thabyenyo Tun Lwin Tuition in Mandalay from 1965 to 1977.
He won a scholarship in 1973 to study at Florida University in the United States. He obtained a BSc in meteorology in 1975.
For the second time, he went to Florida University in 1987 for further study and received a master degree in meteorology. He however failed to do a doctoral course although he was offered a three-year scholarship for a doctoral degree.
He served at the Department of Meteorology and Hydrology of Myanmar with the rank of up to director general. He served as weather forecaster for over 26 years since October 1980.
He then did a four-year doctoral course at Yangon University and received a PhD in July 2008.    
 
 
