
# Bride shamed for wearing teddy bear nappy on her wedding day

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:12:40+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/bride-shamed-wearing-teddy-bear-20787453)

On a woman's wedding day, you'd probably expect them to be wearing some lacy lingerie under their dress.
Perhaps even a garter on their thigh.
You might not expect to see a bride wearing a nappy, covered in cartoon teddy bears, as she's about to walk down the aisle.
But a photo of an unnamed bride-to-be lifting up her white dress and flashing her nappy proudly has been shared on social media.
And, unsurprisingly wedding shamers on Facebook have plenty of thoughts about the look.
 
It's unclear why the woman opted to wear the nappy on her big day - it could be that she needs to for a medical reason, such as a weak bladder.
But this thought didn't cross some people's minds and they have instead accused the bride of having an "adult baby kink" and wearing "teddy-printed fetish diapers".
After screenshotting the photos from a pal's profile, a woman posted them in a shaming group, writing: "I'm not kinkshaming (okay, maybe I am a little) but is bringing your daddy kink into your wedding just a bit weird?"
A different user agreed, saying: "That’s not a Daddy kink, that’s an adult baby kink.”
 
Someone else pointed out that if the couple getting married did share a kink, it would have been very "easy" to keep it between themselves.
"Yeah, maybe just not in public wedding photos," added another person.
However not everyone thought they should have to hide it.
Someone else said: "In my mind if it's two people sharing a kink that's getting married, I'd say it's the perfect time and place to incorporate it."
A sixth user claimed they hadn't even noticed the nappy because they were too busy looking at the "STUNNING" wedding dress.
