
# India Sends Contingent for First-Ever Military Exercise with Uzbekistan

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:00:17+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/military/201911011077197923--india-sends-contingent-for-first-ever-military-exercises-with-uzbekistan/)

India is set to carry out its first-ever military exercise with Uzbekistan to strengthen military diplomacy in the Eurasian region. A 45-member contingent is taking part in a joint military exercise named DUSTLIK-2019 that will primarily focus on anti-terror operations.
During the 10-day military exercise, beginning 4 November, the troops will train in heliborne operations, mountain craft, tactical operations and house-intervention drills.
Indian Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Uzbeki counterpart Bakhodir Nizamovich Kurbanov will witness the curtain-raiser event of the joint exercise on 3 November. The two countries will discuss defence cooperation in detail, in a separate bilateral meet between the two countries.
On Friday morning, Rajnath Singh arrived in Tashkent to attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting and also to attend bilateral engagements with Uzbekistan.
Last year, the two countries agreed to hold joint military training exercises in the field of counter-terrorism and to cooperate in military education and army medicine. It was also decided to set up a Joint Working Group to support and sustain enhanced defence-related activities and defence wings at their respective embassies in Tashkent and New Delhi.
