
# X Factor fans gush over James Arthur's return after years of controversy and scandal

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:53:10+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/x-factor-fans-gush-over-20799685)

Former X Factor champ James Arthur made a mighty comeback to the show this evening with a heart-felt performance of new track, Quite Miss Home.
The star's had his ups and downs since rocketing to fame during the competition back in 2012.
His music career has been plagued by various scandals and controversies, but after cleaning up his act it seems fans are very much on board with the 31 year old lad.
Many took to social media with heaps of praise.
One wrote: "How beautiful watching James Arthur tonight on X Factor , singing Quite Miss Home."
Another could barely contain their excitement over his return: "@JamesArthur23 is f*****g amazing, bloody love his voice so much #XFactorCelebrity #jamesarthur."
A third poured their heart out about the spine-tingling performance: "James Arthur is such a talent. Not only is his voice unmatched, but he has a way of connecting with the audience that a lot of artists lack nowadays.
"(To those holding grudges against him over things that were said in 2013, please see yourself out)."
James' life in the spotlight hasn't always been smooth sailing.
A debut album included homophobic lyrics that caused a backlash culminating in a very public clash on Twitter between the singer and other famous figures, such as comedians Frankie Boyle and Matt Lucas.
He was eventually dropped by recording giants Syco.
James spiralled into a life of womanising and substance abuse, but managed to turn it all around last year with the release of his Number One hit Say You Won't Let Go.
He was re-signed by Syco and has become a mental health advocate.
James told Holy Willoughby and Phillip Schofield on the This Morning sofa: "I couldn't deal with the pressure. Mainly the pressure I was putting on myself.
"I wanted to be the best ever X Factor winner there had ever been. I got very lost.
"I would focus on the negativity. I was still a lost little boy and I didn't know how to cope with it."
