
# BOOK REVIEW: ‘Resistance (At All Costs)

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Anthony J. Sadar**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/4/book-review-resistance-at-all-costs/)


        ANALYSIS/OPINION:
      
RESISTANCE (AT ALL COSTS): HOW TRUMP HATERS ARE BREAKING AMERICA
By Kimberley Strassel
Twelve, $28, 256 pages
When Wall Street Journal editorialist Kimberley Strassel penned “Resistance (At All Costs): How Trump Haters are Breaking America” just a few short months ago, “House Democrats had yet to decide whether to initiate a formal impeachment inquiry into Trump,” Ms. Strassel writes.
That decision changed last week when the House passed a practically party-line resolution to initiate the public phase of an impeachment inquiry into recent communication President Trump had with his Ukrainian counterpart. Ms. Strassel goes on to note that should the Democrats unilaterally move for impeachment, “half the country will see it as proof that the party is determined to reverse via brute force the results of the 2016 election.”
Throughout “Resistance (At All Costs),” besides noting that Democrats “are turning the awesome powers of the House into partisan political weapons,” Ms. Strassel cites example after example of the ways the haters in the resistance movement are destroying America. Numerous instances are exposed, from FBI investigations over formerly routine presidential foreign policy actions to prosecutors and law enforcement officials willingly smearing elected legislators to unilateral releases of Senate Judiciary Committee testimony transcripts to historic disintegration of press standards to the erosion of attorney-client privilege, equal justice and uniform enforcement of laws.
Certainly, in my long lifetime, I have not witnessed anything near the level of applied hatred and arrogance demonstrated by the far-left resisters. Republican presidents from Nixon, Ford, Reagan, Bush the 1st and Bush the 2nd all came under vicious, largely unfair attack from the left, especially Reagan, but there was always enough rather moderate Democrats and more fair-and-balanced journalists over the years to mitigate extreme efforts.
Today, the gloves are off and the brass knuckles are on and Mr. Trump is the president to be pounded. After all, he represents the trashy, deplorable, unredeemable masses who deserve to be pummeled. These voters are too stupid to know that their betters in government were never really servants of the people who elected them. Rather, once elected, officials were on par with elite sovereigns, with all the honor, perks and get-out-jail-free cards afforded such esteemed positions. And, career government employees were always skilled enough to run the vaunted “progressive” machinery that became ensconced at the highest levels to oversee the great unwashed.
But, the election of Mr. Trump disrupted a well-established, money-making, power-bestowing bureaucracy that so many in Washington and government offices across the land came to savor.
Even in my own profession of air quality, there is overt public resistance to the current administration. A “shadow” air advisory panel of former U.S. Environmental Protection Agency air advisers from the Obama administration has been formed. The members are working to challenge decisions of Trump administration appointees.
“Resistance (At All Costs)” shines on so much that may never have come to light had Mr. Trump not been elected. The book should be read (at all costs) for its broad although sufficiently detailed telling of the sad nonstop nonsense of the past few years.
Perhaps the biggest tragic twaddle to be spotlighted in “Resistance” is the so-called Russian dossier, itself.
On July 28, 2017, based on solid information Ms. Strassel received from sources, “the WSJ was the first to suggest that Hillary and the [Democratic National Committee] were behind the [Russian collusion] document.” At the time, in a WSJ column that Ms. Strassel wrote, “Who Paid for the Trump Dossier,” Ms. Strassel asked: “What if it was the Democratic National Committee or Hillary Clinton’s campaign? What if the money flowed from a political entity on the left, to a private law firm, to Fusion, to a British spook, and then to Russian sources?” In fact, that’s exactly what happened. And, Ms. Strassel concludes her chapter on Masters of Obstruction with “this had never been anything more than the co-option of our democratic institutions to smear a political opponent.”
The brief conclusion to “Resistance (At All Costs)” proffers some insights and helpful tips to start repairing the harm rendered by hateful, arrogant resisters. But, even with the commendable, lucid, detailed, convincing expose given throughout Ms. Strassel’s book, to exit the nation’s road to perdition, another entire book concentrating on the effective cleanup-of-the-resisters’ mess may need to be published.

          • Anthony J. Sadar is a certified consulting meteorologist and author of “In Global Warming We Trust: Too Big to Fail” (Stairway Press, 2016).
        

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
