
# Jorge Masvidal calls out Canelo Alvarez as he eyes boxing switch

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:01:59+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/jorge-masvidal-calls-out-canelo-20813282)

UFC star Jorge Masvidal has said he is "dead serious" about wanting to fight Saul 'Canelo' Alvarez after calling out the boxing world champion on Saturday.
Mexican boxer Alvarez was crowned a four-weight world champion as he beat Sergey Kovalev by an 11th-round stoppage at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas to claim the WBO light-heavyweight belt.
The 29-year-old, who has been defeated just once in 56 fights, had also won world titles at light-middleweight, middleweight and super-middleweight before his latest victory.
Earlier in the evening, Masvidal was crowned the 'Baddest Motherf*****' in the UFC when his fight with Nate Diaz was stopped in the third round at Madison Square Garden.
Although he said was a open to a rematch with Diaz, Masvidal also raised the possibility of switching codes to fight the Mexican.
 
Asked about his potential upcoming fights in his post-fight press conference , the 34-year-old said: "If Canelo wants to get his ass kicked, that's a fight I'll take."
“I can box, I can hit hard, I can work different angles and I'm not going to get tired over the 12 rounds, especially if I have time to prepare for it.
"Maybe it's fate that I fought today and he did too. I would like to break his face and I would just like to fight him and test myself."
It would not be the first time an MMA star has traded the Octagon for the boxing ring after Conor McGregor fought Floyd Mayweather in 2017.
 
The fight generated huge hype and although McGregor was beaten, Masvidal is confident he could put on a good performance.
When asked further about a potential bout on Monday, the welterweight star told Ariel Helwani's MMA Show on ESPN : “I’m dead serious about fighting Canelo Alvarez.
"Is Canelo a better boxer than me? Has he thrown 10,000 jabs more than me, cause that's what he does morning and night cause he's just boxing? Yeah. He's a better boxer.
"But can I bring some elements that boxers ain't used to that are in the legal realm of boxing and throw Canelo completely off his game? F*** yes.
"I'm a naturally bigger dude and I punch like a f****** truck. With boxing gloves on I'm not afraid of breaking my hand because I have that cast [of tape] on, it will be a little bit harder.
"I feel I can be a legitimate threat in there."
