
# Betsy DeVos’ Response To Nation’s Report Card Results Is Dead Wrong

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Sargrad**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/scottsargrad/2019/11/01/betsy-devoss-response-to-nations-report-card-results-is-dead-wrong/)

On Wednesday, the U.S. Department of Education released the results of 2019’s National Assessment of Educational Progress, and they are deeply disappointing. Reading scores are down nationwide for both fourth and eighth grades, with only the District of Columbia and Mississippi showing improvement in either grade. What’s worse, the 2019 scores show no improvement from a decade earlier. While the picture is slightly better for math, this news is sobering. It should also be motivating to educators, advocates and policymakers. Unfortunately, the response from Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos is to simply throw up her hands. Her only plan involves massive funding cuts to public education and abandoning our responsibility to help schools improve by pushing ideological private school voucher schemes.
NAEP is the only national assessment that allows comparisons across every state and over time, so the results are important to take seriously. Of course, correlation is not causation, so identifying specific policy causes and future policy prescriptions based on the data is a dangerous enterprise. But rigorous research points to one clear cause: the continued aftermath of massive spending cuts during the Great Recession.
Money matters in education. Investing in students means allocating more resources to provide rigorous course offerings, lower class sizes, better pay for teachers and increased support staff like guidance counselors, social workers and mental health professionals. These resources have clear impacts on student achievement. It should be simply unacceptable that black, Latinx and Native American students have far less access to opportunities like dual enrollment and other advanced courses. Yet in her remarks this week, DeVos again ignored this evidence, claiming that education investments are simply “throw[ing] money at the problem.”
Schools have seen a decade of disinvestment since the Great Recession. Even by 2017, education spending in almost half of states had not yet climbed back to prerecession levels. Today’s fourth and eighth graders directly experienced this disinvestment through their entire time in school.  Is it any wonder that outcomes for these students are not at the level of those who experienced years of greater investment in their schools during the boom times of the early 2000s?
DeVos’ use of the NAEP results to push her ideological agenda is no surprise. She has a long history of denigrating the public school system as a “dead end” and a single-minded focus on school choice as a panacea. There’s no doubt that if the NAEP results were good, DeVos’ response would have been that recent expansions of school choice and private school vouchers in places like Florida and Indiana are the reason. But despite adding more than 90,000 students to private school choice programs since 2009, Florida’s NAEP results have not improved at all over that time frame, except in fourth-grade math. Indiana, which has the nation’s second biggest enrollment in private school voucher programs with around 46,000 students, saw no improvement in NAEP scores in any grade or subject between 2009 and 2019. 
Of course, while money clearly matters in education, how that money is spent matters, too. We should investigate what the District of Columbia and Mississippi have done to continue to improve when so many other states have fallen behind. The District’s massive expansion of free public preschool for 3- and 4-year olds—which began in 2009—is a place to start. The city’s federally funded voucher program, on the other hand, has shown negative impacts on student achievement in math, lending even less support to DeVos’ approach. 
Certainly public school choice—particularly when it includes high-quality, accountable public charter schools—can be an important strategy as part of a comprehensive approach to improving schools. But simply having more choice is not the end goal, as much as Betsy DeVos might want it to be—the end goal is every child having a seat in a great school.
Regardless of your views on the right policy prescriptions, it’s clear we need to redouble our efforts to advance opportunity and improve outcomes for students. Dramatically increasing investment and making big, structural changes in how we fund schools is an obvious place to start. This investment must be part of a new agenda to provide every child with an excellent education—an agenda that also includes an explicit focus on racial equity, aligning K-12 education with higher education and the workforce, modernizing and elevating the teaching profession and bringing a balanced approach to charter schools. In the next decade, let’s learn from our past mistakes and commit to investing in our students.
