
# World Cup offered timely reminder of rugby’s values, on and off the pitch

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:11:00+00:00**

Author: **Andy Bull**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/03/rugby-world-cup-japan-values-south-africa)


        Japan’s hosting showed what the game might become while South Africa’s victory offered succour to its people
      
So in the end Jack did not kill the 15 giants. But still the Rugby World Cup had a different kind of fairytale finish. Siya Kolisi, South Africa’s first black captain, a kid from a township outside Port Elizabeth, led his team to a famous victory. And a team that once epitomised the apartheid regime was reborn, at last, as one offering the promise of togetherness. It was not long ago that the Springboks were jeered by black South Africans. Now they are being cheered by them. They have made good on Nelson Mandela’s words from 1995. “Sport has the power to unite people in a way that little else does,” Mandela said, “Sport can create hope where once there was despair.”
We should not garnish it any more than that. If anything, this may be the moment to offer a timely reminder that we should not overreach or strain to explain the significance of all this. South Africa’s coach, Rassie Erasmus, was absolutely clear about the limits of what his team had achieved. The World Cup final had bought his country 80 minutes of togetherness, Erasmus said, and a couple of happy hours after the match when people back home had put aside their differences. Nothing more than that. The social problems he and Kolisi spoke so openly about this week will not be fixed by this victory. But it will give some succour and a hint, too, of what is possible.
There is also hope there for England. This was all at their expense, but they are a young team, the youngest to play in a World Cup final with 25 twenty-somethings in their squad of 32. And what they have achieved these last six weeks has to be set against the way they embarrassed themselves, and everyone else, in 2011 and 2015. England were never, have never been, better than they were on the weekend they beat the unbeatable All Blacks. It may turn out, when they finish their debrief, that they were still suffering from the hangover of that when they played South Africa.
