
# 'We're going to be strong:' Regina YMCA not considering closure in spite of financial difficulty

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:16:51+00:00**

Author: **Lynn Giesbrecht**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/local-news/were-going-to-be-strong-regina-ymca-not-considering-closure-in-spite-of-financial-difficulty)

With financial difficulties leaving a question mark over the future of the Regina YMCA, CEO Steve Compton said one thing is for sure: A complete shut-down is not being considered as a long-term solution.

        At a meeting with its members in June, the YMCA in Regina announced it was carrying $5.1 million in debt and would face insolvency if another year passed with no changes.
      
Compton said following that meeting, there had been some talk of this potentially marking the end of the non-profit organization in the Queen City. He wanted to assure people the YMCA is not going anywhere.
“That’s actually not the case at all. The (YMCA) may look different going forward, but the (YMCA) will be in Regina and … we’re going to be strong and sustainable again through this whole process. That’s the whole goal,” he said.
“We’re going to be here to serve the community for a long, long time.”
Since June, board members have been taking a long, hard look at future options and where costs can be saved in the meantime. Initially, the organization expected to face insolvency by June 2020, but through fundraising efforts and finding ways to “tighten up” operating expenses, Compton said the organization has managed to buy itself another six months of time in which to make decisions.
Those operation cost savings came through staff and volunteers taking on additional responsibilities, finding efficiencies in scheduling and working with suppliers. But Compton stressed that these short-term fixes do not eliminate the need for a larger decision to ensure longterm sustainability.
At the end of November, Regina YMCA board members will be meeting to make a decision on a longterm solution. Once a decision has been made, a meeting will be held with members to let them know what will be happening, said Compton.
Compton said there were four “prevalent” longterm options raised at the June meeting.
“There was either the closure of our east or downtown facility, or a sale and leaseback or our downtown and northwest (facility),” he said.
But members have also been giving feedback on what they would like to see change over the last few months, said Compton, with suggestions ranging from adding new programs to reaching out to more seniors to looking into building new community partnerships.
With the exception of a small spike when its east end location opened, Compton said the Regina YMCA’s membership has remained stagnant over the last few years. He blamed a growing number of competitors in the fitness industry for the lack of new members.
“One of the challenges is the number of members and the number of locations that we’re taking a look at making sure that all our facilities are well-utilized and busy,” he said.
The Regina YMCA also took over operations of Moose Jaw YMCA’s childcare operations in July after the organization closed in that community. Compton said there are no plans to alter those arrangements and that the Moose Jaw operations are financially sustainable.

        lgiesbrecht@postmedia.com
      
