
# The best Pokémon of the decade

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Julia Lee**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/pokemon/2019/11/6/20930961/best-new-pokemon-decade-2010s)

In the last decade, Game Freak and Nintendo have churned out four generations of Pokémon games.
From Pokémon Black and White to Pokémon Sword and Shield, so many new and lovable monsters have been released or even re-designed with a new form. With the decade coming to a close, we put together a list to remind you of some of the best designs that Game Freak has gifted us in the last 10 years, in order by Pokédex number.
As the 2010s draw to a close, we’re taking stock of the best pop culture of the decade. And we’re reevaluating the all the ways in which the face of entertainment changed from 2010 through 2019. Join us!

        Read more:
      

        
          The 100 best games of the decade
        
      

        
          The best movies of the decade, according to us
        
      

        
          The best comics of the decade
        
      
It surfs! It’s adorable! It participates in a pancake-carrying race in the Pokémon anime! How many reasons do I really need to list here? —Julia Lee
Alolan Meowth could’ve just been the Goth Cat of our Goth Tween dreams, but Alolan Persian blew us out of the water by being a perfectly round-faced boi — and still a Goth. —Petrana Radulovic
Just imagine all the ice cream it could eat with that many spoons, dude. —JL
A lot of Alolan forms are pretty good and they have great reasons as to why their typing and appearance is different, but Alolan Exeggutor trumps it all. They’re really tall because they get all that sunlight in Alola! I don’t know why this only makes their necks grow like palm trees and why it doesn’t elongate the rest of their bodies, but I really like it. —JL
It’s baby! —JL
I can really relate to being a young, energetic metal-head. —JL
She finally got a poofy dress. She deserves this. —JL
The beloved grass-starter, formerly known as Smugleaf. Its evolved forms are not as good as its base form, but we still appreciate media reminding us that snakes are not scary creatures. —JL
Go away, Woobat haters. Woobat is valid and it deserves its spot on this list, as it is a fluffy, cute, flying orb. —JL
Now this is a comfy Pokémon. I look like this Pokémon during the winter time. —JL
I was told I could not say “It’s baby!” for more than one Pokémon, but look at this little nugget. He’s adorable. —JL
Pants Pokémon. —JL
You would think just being a blue duck would make this design bad, but it actually makes it good. —JL
I do not know why this Pokémon gets so much hate when it is so adorable. Why are Geodude and Grimer valid, but this one isn’t? It’s bullshit. —JL
It’s spooky, it has a cool Shiny form, and also it will punch you in the head and kick your ass in Pokkén. —JL
Stunfisk haters are not allowed to continue to exist on Polygon dot com. Stunfisk did nothing wrong. —JL
This Pokémon looks like this emote: O_O. —JL
We’ve gotten a lot of dino Pokémon, but Aurorus is sleek, svelte, and very elegant, therefore Aurorus is the best dino Pokémon of all. —PR
Pokémon said, “Trans rights!” —JL
Goomy is slime. Goomy is shaped like a friend. —PR
It’s an orb owl who turns into an edgy cloaked archer. I don’t know what about this is not to like. —JL
My baby goth kitty before he turned into a Man. —PR
Not only is this thing a toucan and a cannon, but it’s also a grumpy grandpa, according to the anime. —JL
Only female Salandit are allowed to evolve into Salazzle. A crime queen who knows how to pose and strut, Salazzle also secretes a toxic gas that attracts male Salandit. She knows what she wants and how to get it. —PR
This Pokémon is delightful for how simple the design is, but what makes it really good is how disgustingly strong it is, as shown in the anime. —JL
I ate a mangosteen in real life for the first time in 2017 and it made me like this Pokémon more. If you have never eaten a mangosteen, try your best to find one somehow, even though it only grows in tropical regions like Southeast Asia. You will like this Pokémon more after you eat it. —JL
She’s beauty, she’s grace, she’s a wreath of flowers and we stan. —PR
I want to bury my face in the Wooloo wool. —JL
This design invokes more fear in me than any Pokémon design ever, and that includes Giratina, which is a weird creepy tentacle-ghost-thing. —JL
