
# Easynomics: What Bengaluru benefits from, but Bihar doesn’t

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Vivek Kaul**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/opinion/others/easynomics-what-bengaluru-benefits-from-but-bihar-doesnt/articleshow/71928271.cms)

What is the one-word answer for the success of Bengaluru as a city where information technology companies want to operate, despite the collapsing physical infrastructure? Spillovers. In Good Economics for Hard Times, Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo define a spillover as “the idea that skills build on each other and that putting skilled people together in one place makes a difference”. The Silicon Valley in the United States is an excellent example of that. Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu used to be another example of that, until demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax (GST) came together to destroy it. When it comes to IT companies, they can easily shift to other parts of India, where the land is cheaper and physical infrastructure is better than Bengaluru. But that is not the case. The reason for that lies in the fact that the skill sets they require in their employees are most easily available in Bengaluru. The same stands true for Silicon Valley. It is primarily because of spillovers. The city and state governments in the United States understand the impact of spillovers very well. If a large company is looking to set up a new plant or an office, the governments go out of their way to attract the company by offering subsidies. The hope is that the subsidies over a period of time will pay for themselves in the form of more jobs being created. More jobs ultimately lead to higher consumption and greater economic activity, which might help politicians to continue to stay in power. Banerjee and Duflo offer a series of examples in their book on governments that went out of their way to attract companies. Take the case of Panasonic, which received more than $100 million to move its North American headquarters to Newark, in the state of New Jersey. The state of Wisconsin gave at least $3 billion in fiscal advantages to Foxconn, which invested $10 billion in an LCD manufacturing plant. A few Indian states have also tried to follow this strategy by organising investor summits. The idea is the same. Once a few big companies come and start operating in the state, it will attract other investors to set up similar plants because the necessary infrastructure will come up. Take the case of Gurugram. Once Maruti established its plant there, a lot of backend suppliers came up in and around the city. This attracted more automobile companies to set up shop there. Also, people with skillset required to work in auto companies could easily be found in and around Gurugram, as it happened with Bengaluru in case of information technology. So, the spillovers really helped. But what has worked for Bengaluru, Gurugram and parts of Gujarat, hasn’t helped other states and cities. This has been because of reasons ranging from bureaucrats sitting on the files to the lack of infrastructure in the state to get an industry going. A great example of this is Bihar, which struggles to attract any industry. It’s like a chicken and egg story. Once the first few companies decide to come and set shop in the state, the others will follow, but that isn’t happening, given the impression that Bihar carries in the minds of people, and also the lack of infrastructure. The bigger question is does the strategy of governments pursuing spillovers help? It does help at the regional level. Take a look at the state of Haryana. The emergence of Gurugram as the millennial city, thanks to factories and offices being set up there, has pushed up income levels in the state. The same can be said about Bengaluru, which was once a pensioner’s paradise. Or even cities like Hyderabad and Pune. But does it contribute to national growth as well? This is where things get a little tricky. As Banerjee and Duflo write: “Growth in one region is different from national growth because it can happen in part by cannibalising growth in the rest of the economy, drawing capital, skills, and labour away from other areas.” In fact, the Indian politicians should keep this in mind before they talk or implement any policy which reserves jobs only for the locals. When it comes to the success of any economy, there are too many factors at work. (Vivek Kaul is the author of the Easy Money trilogy).
