
# Norway’s Historic Stave Churches Are Even Older Than Previously Thought

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **David Nikel**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidnikel/2019/11/04/norways-historic-stave-churches-are-even-older-than-previously-thought/)

A modern measurement method has helped scientists date some of Norway’s historic stave churches more accurately. The method shows that several of the stave churches are older than has been previously thought.The most surprising find related to Urnes Stave Church, one of Norway’s eight UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Originally dated to around 1130, the church is now believed to be as old as 1070.
NTNU researcher Terje Thun has long studied wood samples from stave churches in order to more accurately pinpoint Norway's most important contribution to world architecture. He told science website Gemini that Urnes was put under the spotlight most of all, as it is considered to be the country’s oldest stave church.
This raises new questions on how exactly Christianity came to Norway, because the current structure is the fourth known church to stand on the site. It has long been thought that Viking converts brought Christianity back from their raids to Britain and Ireland, in particular, Olav Tryggvason and Olav Haraldsson. The latter is now known as Saint Olav.
It could be that the truth is much more complex, with more influences in other parts of the country. Cultural historian Sæbjørg Walaker Nordeide from the University of Bergen pointed out to NRK that there are clear indications of earlier signs of Christianity at some locations in the country.
The new methods show that parts of Urnes Stave Church was built of timber from 1069 and 1070. The part of the church known to be younger is dated to 1129-1130, which is still older than previously thought.
Other churches have also been dated with more prevision, In many cases they also reveal wood that is older than expected. The time of construction of Hopperstad Stave Church had previously been estimated at 1125-1250. The new method dates the church at 1131-1132. Kaupanger Stave Church was dates to 1137-38, older than the original estimate of 1170-1200.
Building historians, art historians, conservators, archaeologists, craftsmen and other professionals were involved besides the researchers. Aside from the more precise dates, the work has also revealed new knowledge of building customs and material choices. “Among other things, we can now investigate the type of forest that has been available for different periods,” Thun told Gemini.
The new method dates the year the timber was felled. It was assumed that the timber will be used in the same year for the construction process.
The previous method to dating wooden material measures variations in the width of the age rings, which are compared to samples already dated. However, in recent years, researchers have started to use a different method of measurement, whereby the material is photographed on the spot. This method does not require drill samples, and so researchers can photograph large amounts of material in a protected building to get a large amount of data. As material that can’t be drilled for reasons of preservation can still be dated, this method gives a more complete view of construction dates.
