
# Chiefs, Downs: The Ex-Winners Vying For Glory

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/telkom-knockout/kaizer-chiefs-are-among-the-final-four-in-the-telkom-knockout/666656)

The stage is set, the semi-final draw has been made, and there’s now a possibility of a dramatic Telkom Knockout Cup final between Kaizer Chiefs and Mamelodi Sundowns.

        Take a look at the semifinalists – and their records – in the gallery above!
      
Following this weekend’s round of fixtures, Chiefs and Sundowns are the only two teams left in the tournament that have won the competition before in any of its formats stretching back to 1982, while their opponents, Maritzburg United and Golden Arrows, have never gotten as far as the final.

        Read: Chiefs In Talks With Potential New Signing!
      
Since the TKO began under its current name in 2006, the Amakhosi have won it more times than any other club (x3) while Masandawana’s only win in the tournament came back in 2015 when they beat the Glamour Boys to lift it for the first time.
Now, with Chiefs being pitted at home against Maritzburg and Sundowns travelling to Arrows, the two South African giants will be favourites to progress to the final later in the year, however the Team of Choice and Abafana Bes’thende will have other ideas.
The semis are due to be played on the November 22 and 23, although at this point there have been no details revealed regarding where and when they will take place exactly.

        Read: A Message From Kaizer Motaung…
      
One thing that seems clear though, based on the games so far, is that both matches will be tight affairs. Of the 12 games that have been played in the 2019 TKO, eight of them have gone to extra time and seven have ended up in a penalty shootout. On top of that, only three matches have had more than two goals in them.

        Who is your money on for the TKO 2019 final two?
      
