
# You Won’t Find Your Self-Worth on Instagram

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:54:10+00:00**

Author: **Sheila Marikar**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/02/opinion/sunday/instagram-social-media.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

Recently, a friend told me she was taking a break from Instagram in part because her female co-workers reacted with snark and envy to her vacation photos. “Some of these women are haters,” jealous of “the fact that I travel and do fun things,” she explained. But, she added, “It’s not like it hasn’t come at a cost.”
Of course: For every frameable photo of a woman in a vineyard, there are the undocumented vignettes of the woman at work, making money so that she can go on a trip to wine country, or arguing with her partner about whether they can afford a trip to wine country, or panicking over the credit card charges that she accumulated during a trip to wine country. The picture on social media tells only a part of the story: “I am happy today.” “Here’s something beautiful.” “The light hit me just right.”
It used to be popular to blame magazines and Victoria’s Secret ads for perpetuating unattainable lifestyle and beauty standards for women. Now, with the ubiquity of social media, particularly Facebook and Instagram, everyday women are being blamed for making other women feel inadequate.
A 2018 study conducted by York University in Toronto found that young adult women using social media often compare their appearance with that of their female peers and think negative thoughts about their own bodies. A March report in Experience, an online journal published by Northeastern University, found that two-thirds of respondents experienced pangs of “social media envy” while scrolling through their feeds (most likely to provoke that envy: posts about traveling).
Wary of making their followers feel inadequate, some prominent women on social media have taken to interspersing photos of their fabulous lives (floating in the Aegean Sea, sunbathing on a yacht) with everyday footage (making dinner, rinsing with Listerine). Others have turned Instagram’s caption field into a confessional, revealing their struggles with mental health and general well-being, having what The New Yorker’s Carrie Battan called the “getting real” moment, sticking up a hand to say, “Hey, I’m human too!” before going back to regularly scheduled broadcasts of paid product promotions and outfit pictures.
But one woman’s definition of “real” is not the same as another’s. In October, a few days after giving birth to her first child, the Australian photographer Emily Yates posted a warm portrait, shot from afar, of herself breastfeeding her son. Most of the more than 200 comments were heart emojis and well wishes. But one of Ms. Yates’s followers, a woman who said she was pregnant, wrote, “Not cool that you won’t share your birth experience,” adding that Ms. Yates had a responsibility to fans “who have been following you and supporting you for years.” Ms. Yates replied, “I don’t have a contract to be ‘real’ and tell you every detail of my life … I am a ‘real’ person. This is my ‘real’ life. I’m a multifaceted woman with a million different hats, just like everyone else.” (The comment, and Ms. Yates’s reply, have since been deleted.)
This is the paradox women face on social media: Share enough highs to seem well adjusted but not braggy, share enough lows to seem down to earth but not suicidal, and share enough unfiltered moments to seem human but not unattractive.
But even if every woman posted every raw, unglamorous detail of her life, it wouldn’t get to the root of the issue, which is that while social media is a great place to discover new hairstyles, recipes and memes, it’s not a viable source of self-esteem, a tool for comparison or a road map to life. Also, it’s opt in.
“You have the ‘block’ button,” said Hannah Fallis Bronfman, a D.J. and wellness company founder who has more than 560,000 Instagram followers. “If I’m triggered by something, I’d rather just unfollow that person. It’s the easiest way to get that toxicity out of my point of view.”
Ms. Bronfman recently opened up about her struggle to conceive, part of an effort to be transparent with her followers, break up the “highlight reel” that is Instagram and “bring more context to the page.” In February, she posted two photos of herself by the Eiffel Tower: one, poised, grinning, umbrella angled over her shoulder just so; the other, windblown, mouth open, umbrella jerked behind her, inside out.
“My face looks crazy, there’s water everywhere,” she said. “It gives people a more well-rounded look into my life so that they know that I’m real.”
There’s that four-letter word again. A decade ago, after a spate of Photoshopping scandals that cut out hips and trimmed arms to untenable widths, magazines began touting “unretouched” photo shoots to show that their images were “real.” Serena Williams appeared unretouched on the August cover of Harper’s Bazaar, wearing a glittery gold cape that billowed up to showcase her strong, glistening body. No reasonable viewer of this photo would assume that they, too, would look like this, or serve an ace like Ms. Williams, if they put on a gold cape and posed the same way. Her body reflects her status as perhaps the greatest athlete of all time. Plus, a high-powered fan was surely used to add a glamorous effect to the image. If we can see the marionette strings behind magazine images and reality television, why do we expect a greater degree of transparency from the people we see on social media?
Perhaps it’s because we know some of the people in our social media feeds offline (“Her hair never looks that good at the office”). When they flaunt something we don’t have, we take it as a referendum on our lives (“Oh, I’d totally have abs like that if I had time to go to the gym”). Famous people get a pass. Of course they travel to exotic places, and of course they look fabulous: they have assistants, trainers and chefs, it’s their job to look attractive and conduct the sort of aspirational lives befitting glossy magazines. But if Alyssa from accounting posts a bikini pic from the Bahamas, she’s vain, bragging about her ability to travel or really good at editing photos to make the whole scene look better than it actually is — maybe all of the above.
In October, Instagram announced that it would ban from its platform filters designed to mimic plastic surgery. A billion people have used the filters in the past year, according to Facebook’s augmented reality platform, Spark AR. While this may lead to Instagram’s serving as a more accurate mirror of reality than a fun house version of it, the onus remains on viewers to put what they see — whether on a screen, on a page or in three dimensions — into context. No one should be wary of putting a pretty picture out into the world because it might make someone else feel bad.
If anyone’s feelings are really that fragile, there’s a solution. “A lot of people are telling me that they’re limiting their time with an app that blocks Instagram after a certain number of minutes,” said Ms. Bronfman.
Indeed, anyone hoping to find self-worth at the end of a scroll will be thumbing at their screen for a long time. It’s probably best to look elsewhere.
Sheila Marikar is a Los Angeles-based writer.

        The Times is committed to publishing 
        
          a diversity of letters
        
         to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some 
        
          tips
        
        . And here’s our email: 
        
          letters@nytimes.com
        
        .
      

        Follow The New York Times Opinion section on 
        
          Facebook
        
        , 
        
          Twitter (@NYTopinion)
        
         and 
        
          Instagram
        
        .
      

        Continue reading the main story
      
