
# Martin Scorsese calls Marvel films manufactured and where nothing is at risk

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:09:44+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/film/martin-scorsese-calls-marvel-films-20814280)

Martin Scorsese has doubled down on his criticism of Marvel comic book movies.
The iconic Taxi Driver director had previously referred to the films as "theme park films" and "not Cinema" when asked his opinions on the current state of the film industry.
Now, Martin Scorsese has explained in his opinion piece in The New York Times what he feels is missing in Marvel superhero movies that mean they are not "Cinema".
The director writes: "Many of the elements that define cinema as I know it are there in Marvel pictures. What’s not there is revelation, mystery or genuine emotional danger. Nothing is at risk. The pictures are made to satisfy a specific set of demands, and they are designed as variations on a finite number of themes."
He adds: "They are sequels in name but they are remakes in spirit, and everything in them is officially sanctioned because it can’t really be any other way. That’s the nature of modern film franchises: market-researched, audience-tested, vetted, modified, revetted and remodified until they’re ready for consumption."
 
The Goodfellas director goes on to name-check current directors who offer "something absolutely new and be taken to unexpected and maybe even unnameable areas of experience", such as Paul Thomas Anderson , Spike Lee , Kathryn Bigelow , Claire Denis , Wes Anderson , and Ari Aster.
Scorsese also defended his decision to produce his latest gangster epic The Irishman with streaming giant Netflix and not one of the other major Hollywood studios.
"It, and it alone, allowed us to make “The Irishman” the way we needed to, and for that I’ll always be thankful," writes Scorsese. "We have a theatrical window, which is great. Would I like the picture to play on more big screens for longer periods of time? Of course I would. But no matter whom you make your movie with, the fact is that the screens in most multiplexes are crowded with franchise pictures."
He also bemoans arguments around popularity of the superhero films being responsible as "It’s a chicken-and-egg issue. If people are given only one kind of thing and endlessly sold only one kind of thing, of course they’re going to want more of that one kind of thing."
The director describes how "In the past 20 years, as we all know, the movie business has changed on all fronts. But the most ominous change has happened stealthily and under cover of night: the gradual but steady elimination of risk. Many films today are perfect products manufactured for immediate consumption."
 
For the full opinion piece from Martin Scorsese see here.
Meanwhile, Disney CEO Bob Iger has responded to previous criticism from the director when speaking to BBC Radio.
Iger said: "Ouch! I think Martin Scorsese is a great filmmaker. I hope he hears this. I don't have a relationship with him, but it doesn't matter, I admire him immensely. I think he has made some great films. I look back and think of Goodfellas  and Raging Bull to name just a few, Taxi Driver. Just a phenomenal filmmaker. And I think I would debate him on this subject.
"First of all, Marvel is making movies — they are movies, that's what Martin Scorsese makes — and they are good movies: good directors and good writers and good actors and good cinematographers and good costume designers and good sound engineers and good editors. I can go on and on. These are talented, talented people that are putting their hard work and talent into making films that entertain people in theaters around the world.... They have a good two-hour experience. They come out feeling happy or better about themselves."
 
The Disney CEO added: "I don't think he's ever seen a Marvel film.... Anyone who has seen a Marvel film could not in all truth make that statement."
Marvel Studios will be releasing two movies next year with Black Widow and The Eternals.

        The Irishman is released in UK cinemas on November 8, 2019, and is released on Netflix on November 27, 2019.
      

        
          Do you agree with Martin Scorsese on Marvel movies? Let us know in the comments below.
        
      
