
# Starving dad asks foodbank for parcels for his kids and refuses help himself

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:48:14+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, Ashley Franklin, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/starving-dad-asks-foodbank-parcels-20804276)

A starving single dad showed up at a foodbank to get a parcel for his two children and refused food for himself, a volunteer has revealed.
The dad hadn't eaten for three days and his main concern was feeding his children, said Damon Parkinson, a volunteer at a foodbank in Gainsborough, Lincolnshire.
The case highlights a surge in demand for emergency parcels and shortages of supplies at foodbanks which are under increasing pressure.
Mr Parkinson told of the heartbreaking moment the starving dad visited the service at Riverside Training after going without food for almost half a week, LincolnshireLive reports.
 
As volunteers were putting together a package for the dad, he told them not to worry about him and to include things his children would enjoy.
Mr Parkinson said: “We ask about children in the household and whether there are any food allergies or intolerances.
“He said, 'It doesn’t matter about me, I just need food for the children. Can you give us stuff they will eat?'
“He hadn’t eaten for three days but still wanted food just for the kids.
“He was more concerned about them than himself.”
There have been other worrying cases, Mr Parkinson added.
A record 1.6million emergency food parcels were given out by the Trussell Trust foodbank network last year.
More than half a million of them were given to children.
Mr Parkinson said the service at Riverside Training in Gainsborough has "snowballed" since October last year after a man taking part in an education class didn’t go for a meal when everyone else did.
He said: “We didn’t realise the scale of the issue – it’s a hidden issue.
“A learner didn’t leave for lunch when all the others left. He sat there.
“We had a conversation with him and he said he had not had breakfast but said ‘I am ok’.
“We asked him what the last thing he had to eat was. He said ‘I had a slice of toast yesterday morning’.
“From there we got a few items for learners not eating to try and support them to continue with their education and courses.”
The service links those in need with other services they may require, including education courses and appointments related to mental health.
One man who was referred was considering suicide, said Mr Parkinson.
He added: "People have an image of what someone not eating looks like.
“It is not necessarily someone who is unemployed or an addict – it could be anyone.
“We have had single parents, people with low-paid jobs – it is not a stereotypical person.
“For me it makes you realise how quickly life can turn upside down."
With the weather turning colder, the foodbank is seeing more people coming in looking for parcels, but its supplies are running low.
Foodbanks across the UK have put out calls for donations and volunteers ahead of a busy season which includes Christmas.
