
# Coinbase Tezos Pump Fires Up Spreads Across Crypto Exchanges

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:00:13+00:00**

Author: **Martin Young**

Original: [Bitcoinist.com](https://bitcoinist.com/coinbase-tezos-pump-creates-big-spreads-crypto-exchanges/)


        Tezos price spiked sharply today after Coinbase announced staking rewards for XTZ. The token pumped so hard that huge spreads opened up between exchanges leading to arbitrage opportunities for savvy traders.
      
Late yesterday Coinbase announced that it was expanding access for Tezos staking. The offer of earning rewards for XTZ stored on the exchange was only available to US customers however. Coinbase will be staking the tokens on behalf of its users and distributing the rewards back into their wallets.
Staking is the next evolution of consensus which will let users earn income by participating directly into the network and blockchain. Coinbase added that staking Tezos via a delegated staking service can be confusing so it would be doing all of the leg work for its American clients.
The announcement added;
Clearly this beats pretty much anything that a bank can offer these days with many of them dropping interest rates into negative territory. Staking and decentralized finance (Defi) based on Ethereum could well be the future of finance as the world teeters on economic collapse.
Coinbase also offers an ‘Earn Tezos’ campaign which rewards users in XTC ‘simply by learning about the token and taking a few quizzes.’ The exchange is clearly working towards simplifying the process of buying and earning with crypto assets which is good for the industry as a whole.
As expected XTZ prices surged on the news adding over 50% in a pump from $0.90 to top $1.40. Trade volume cranked from $13 million to over $60 million with Coinbase Pro taking a quarter of that volume.
Analyst and trader Alex Krüger noted that huge spreads between exchanges were forming as the crypto asset surged.
