
# Is This $46 Million ‘Grand Penthouse’ San Francisco’s Best View?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Keith Flamer**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/keithflamer/2019/10/31/is-this-46-million-grand-penthouse-san-franciscos-best-view/)

San Francisco’s most expensive listing is also its loftiest. Offered at $46 million, the Grand Penthouse at 181 Fremont soars 700 feet above the Golden Gate City, enjoying 360-degree views from what’s touted as the “tallest residence west of Chicago.” And it’s all yours for $46 million. Talk about lofty.
The penthouse sits atop the West Coast’s tallest mixed-use tower, an 800-foot skyscraper with a saw-tooth-pattern exoskeleton designed by Heller Manus Architects and engineered with advanced seismic construction by ARUP Group.
Developed by Jay Paul Company, the 55-unit luxury residential tower already earned six global engineering awards for innovation, seismic safety and sustainability from the Council for Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, more than any building in the USA, including Philadelphia’s recently introduced tallest mixed-use tower, Foster + Partners’ Comcast Technology Center (1,121 feet high).
The 181 Fremont building is hailed as San Francisco’s first pre-certified LEED Platinum mixed-use building, courtesy of its natural light-optimizing glass curtain walls and water recycling system which captures, treats and reuses grey water and rainwater (saving more than 1.3 million gallons of water per year).
“As a world-class destination, the city’s ultra luxury high-rise residential offerings are surprisingly limited,” says Matt Lituchy, CIO of Jay Paul Company, who introduces the building and penthouse together in a fully-finished state for maximum impression. “Our aim was to fill that void. The views are the home’s main attraction. There are none better in San Francisco.”
As 181 Fremont’s crown jewel, the Grand Penthouse (GPH) boasts unobstructed views sweeping west from the Pacific Ocean and Farallon Islands; north across the Golden Gate Bridge to Marin County; east across the Bay Bridge to Mt. Diablo; and south to Silicon Valley.
Views inside the turnkey home also impress. Accessed by a private elevator, open doors reveal exquisite, custom pieces worthy of such a majestic perch, including a lavish Lolli e Memmoli chandelier, and a leather-finish, acid-wash 12-person Henge dining table.
Designed by Mary Ta and Lars Hypko of Los Angeles-based MASS Beverly (whose clients include Beyoncé and Jay-Z, Elon Musk, and Calvin Klein) the Grand Penthouse delivers inspired, Italian-design furnished rooms—highlighted by a bespoke Bottega Veneta study and an intimate Minotti-filled family room.
"The entire residence is a luxury experience when you exit the elevator—with a custom Lolli e Memmoli-cut crystal chandelier to the custom glass-encased office with sumptuous Bottega Veneta leather furniture,” says Ta.
The home’s artisan craftsmanship exudes a subtle, yet contemporary sophistication—mitred stone Marie Antoinette floors, striated metal doors, Venetian plaster walls, earth tones, and cerulean hues seemingly siphoned from the Bay way down below. The home surprises with a through-view marble fireplace, suspended Calcatta marble wine tasting counter, floating stone monolith exhibition kitchens, and his-her boutique walk-in closets.
Architecturally, the Grand Penthouse showcases ceiling and floor shadow gaps, pocket privacy doors, easy-slide glass walls by Rimadesio, and slightly curved interior walls that soften 181 Fremont’s modern angles.
The Grand Penthouse is staged with $7 million in artwork, which can be purchased separately from the home. The art is curated by Holly Baxter & Associates from Anthony Meier Fine Arts Gallery.
Completed in 2018, the 181 Fremont building marks Jay Paul Company’s debut residential development. Lituchy called 181 Fremont “the most seismically sound residential building in the world,” with 42 of the caissons drilled more than 260 feet into the bedrock.
In light of the infamous Millennium Tower’s notorious sinking and tilting, that’s reassuring in San Francisco, a city that requires special engineering attention—award-winning attention.
