
# Monday deals: Amazon Logitech sale from $12, HP Chromebook 15 $369, Nest Hub $58, more

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:14:18+00:00**

Author: **Trevor Daugherty**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/04/logitech-amazon-sale/)

Monday’s best deals include the latest Logitech Amazon Gold Box, plus HP’s top-of-the-line Chromebook is on sale alongside a $58 Nest Hub. Hit the jump for all that and more.
Today’s Amazon Gold Box includes a number of notable deals on Logitech accessories for your Chromebook, Mac, or PC. Deals can be had under $12 with our top pick being the MX Master Wireless Mouse at $47, which is down from the usual $60 price tag. You can find all of our top picks right here.
Amazon offers the HP 15-inch Chromebook 2.3 GHz/4 GB/64 GB for $369. As a comparison, it typically goes for $449 at other retailers. Today’s deal is a match of the previous Amazon all-time-low price This high-end Chromebook sports a 15-inch 1080p display with plenty of room to handle daily tasks, browse the web, and more. Notable features include a 2.3 GHz Intel processor, 4 GB worth of RAM, and a built-in 64 GB hard drive. HP promises up to 13 hours of battery life on a single charge, so you should be good throughout the day.
Rakuten offers the Google Nest Hub for $58. As a comparison, Best Buy currently has it for $129. Today’s deal is a match of our previous mention and likely beats this year’s Black Friday prices at mainstream retailers. Bring the Nest Hub into your smart home and take control of lights, thermostats, and more. Leverage Google Assistant to call up your favorite news, sports, and other services. Head over to our hands-on review for more, where we called it “a great addition to any room — especially if you’re already in the Assistant ecosystem.
BuyDig is offering a 2-pack of Nest IQ Wired Outdoor Security Cameras and a 3-pack of Google WiFi 802.11ac Routers for $699 shipped. For comparison, the cameras themselves have a list price of $700 at retailers like Home Depot and are on sale for $600 at Best Buy right now. Google WiFi goes for around $250 generally speaking, saving you upwards of $259 here. This is Nest’s higher-end cameras, offering up a 4K sensor, 24/7 livestreaming, HDR, and waterproofing for a well-rounded experience. Plus, Google WiFi offers a super simple networking setup. And with three separate nodes, your entire house will be blanketed with 802.11ac coverage.
Amazon is offering the Microsoft Wireless All-In-One Media Keyboard (N9Z-00001) for $19. Matched at B&H. That’s 35% off the going rate found at retailers like Walmart and is the lowest offer we’ve tracked in years. Despite the fact that this keyboard is made by Microsoft, it is actually compatible with Mac and Linux PCs. Pairing it with any of these operating systems is a cinch thanks to the inclusion of a USB wireless adapter. Not only does it sport a QWERTY keyboard, you’ll also find a trackpad on the right side, allowing you to streamline your desk or easily control an HTPC. A spill-resistant design aims to keep this keyboard operational for years to come.

        
          Subscribe to the 9to5Toys YouTube Channel for all of the latest videos, reviews, and more!
        
      

        Nixplay Smart Photo Frame Review: Elegant and easy-to-use [Video]
      

        Street Fighter II RepliCade review: An incredibly-detailed mini arcade [Video]
      
