
# China’s Threat To Campus Free Speech

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nick Morrison**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/nickmorrison/2019/11/06/chinas-threat-to-campus-free-speech/)

China poses a serious threat to campus free speech in the West as it tries to limit academic freedom, according to a new report.
And the pursuit of income from overseas students and investment from China has blinded many universities to the risks of outside interference in hard-won freedoms, the report said.
An influential committee of MPs found ‘alarming evidence’ of Chinese interference on U.K. campuses, largely originating from the Chinese embassy in London.
And it warned that universities were complacent about the risk to free speech from engaging with autocratic states.
‘While autocracies seek to shape the research agenda or curricula of U.K. universities, or limit activities on university campuses, not enough is being done to protect academic freedom from financial, political and diplomatic pressure,’ the MPs said.
Among the examples highlighted in its report by the House of Commons foreign affairs committee were:
The committee also noted reports that Nottingham University - which has a campus in China - was pressured to cancel events relating to Tibet and Taiwan after complaints by Chinese officials.
And it received complaints that members of a state-backed Chinese students’ association were monitoring potential dissidents. One member of the Uyghur Muslim community - a minority suffering persecution and repression in China - said she had been watched while studying in the U.K. and her family in China harassed.
Although the report states that other autocracies - namely Russia and Central Asian dictatorships - pose a similar threat, most of the evidence it received related to China.
But the MPs said universities often did not acknowledge the issue, and accused the government of not treating it with the urgency it required.
‘Some U.K. institutions are reluctant to respond to allegations of influence due to their reliance on income from student recruitment and research grants,’ the report said.
Around 17% of U.K. universities’ total research income of £8.2bn ($10.5bn) comes from international sources, while overseas students are a lucrative source of income, paying fees of up to £40,000 ($51,500) a year.
China is by far the largest source of overseas students in the U.K., sending 106,530 in 2017/18, almost as many as from the whole of the European Union and more than five times the number from its nearest rival.
The committee urged universities and government to co-ordinate their efforts to limited outside interference that puts academic freedom at risk.
While the U.S. and Australia have seen debates over the risk to free speech of greater involvement with China, the issue has largely been ignored in the U.K., MPs said.
Committee chair Tom Tugendhat said democratic states should stand together in defence of an international rules-based system.
‘We must protect each other and ourselves in the face of autocratic states who are concentrated on undermining and interfering with hard-won liberties,’ he said.
‘The committee is not blind to the incentives for more students or stronger business links - but this should be weighed with full awareness of the serious risks involved.’
Greg Walker, chief executive of MillionPlus which represents many U.K. universities, said that while the individual instances highlighted in the report were unacceptable, they had not seen any evidence of a systematic campaign to undermine academic freedom in the U.K..
And he denied that the financial contribution of overseas students compromised universities’ ability to defend free speech.
‘Our bedrock, absolute fundamental values of academic freedom and free speech are non-negotiable, absolute total red lines, and we will not compromise on that, despite what international students we have in our student body,’ he said.
