
# High Court modifies trial court’s ‘lenient’ sentence, hands out 5-yr jail term

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/high-court-modifies-trial-courts-lenient-sentence-hands-out-5-yr-jail-term/articleshow/71945546.cms)

The High Court has enhanced the punishment for a person convicted of culpable homicide from eight months to five years, terming the Trial Court’s sentence as too lenient. “The very approach of the Trial Court is erroneous with regard to imposing the sentence is concerned,” the HC said while modifying the sentence. Dharmanna Gowda and his wife Mohini aka Lalitha are from Bandaru village in Belthangady. Dharmanna had a dispute with Thaniyappa Gowda his brother-in-law about a road between their properties. After a quarrel in March 25, 2006, the couple allegedly inflicted injuries on him leading to his death subsequently in a hospital. The case was initiated after a complaint by Shanthappa Gowda, the son of Thaniyappa. The police charge sheet accused the couple of murder among other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The couple were acquitted of the murder (Section 302) charge. Dharmanna was convicted instead for ‘culpable homicide not amounting to murder’ (Section 304). Mohini was convicted for ‘Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons’ (Section 324) and ‘Punishment for criminal trespass’ (Section 447). Dharmanna was also convicted under Section 447. The prosecution approached the HC with an appeal against the order of the Trial Court. The HC in its judgement said the punishment imposed is meager. It said, “It has to be noted that the Court below in paragraph No.7 of the judgement has discussed with regard to the punishment with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, or with fine, or with both. But while sentencing, a lenient view was taken...” The HC modified the sentence to rigorous imprisonment for a period of five years and a fine of Rs 50,000.”
