
# 35 Straight-Up Genius Products That Keep Selling Out On Amazon

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:15:05+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/35-straight-up-genius-products-that-keep-selling-out-on-amazon-19284177)

Genius is a tricky thing to define, but to paraphrase a somewhat obscure Supreme Court justice, I know it when I see it. Comb the pages of everyone's favorite online retail behemoth, and lightning strikes not infrequently — but these genius Amazon products sell out routinely. They're also so brilliant, even the elves at Amazon can't keep them in stock.
For example, I'm pretty sure that back in the day, you probably didn't think you'd ever find yourself brushing your teeth with black goo — but this amazing toothpaste is dark as night because it's made with naturally antibacterial activated bamboo charcoal. Blended with coconut oil, it gives your pearly whites a one-two punch of plaque removal and whitening done the natural way.
This list will swathe you in genius from head to toe, too. Chances are pretty good, for instance, that you're not meeting your daily magnesium requirements — and missing out on this mineral can trigger a range of symptoms including muscle cramps, anxiety, and insomnia. Just five to 10 sprays of this Dead Sea magnesium oil on the soles of your feet can relieve all that and more.
Of course, the genius isn't limited only to health and beauty items, spreading over as it does to stuff for your home like this shelf that clamps onto your bed frame and provides a resting place for everything that ends up amidst the covers with you, like books, electronics, coffee mugs, remotes, and more.
Truly genius. You'll know it when you see it — so get busy, and check it out.

        Gaiam Balance Disc$21.98|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Engineered to be placed atop a chair to provide a balancing surface that helps develop torso strength, this core trainer is perfect for use at home or at the office. Anyone with ADHD will also find that it's the perfect thing to keep the mind just occupied enough to permit task-based focus. Available in three colors, it can be used with strength and balance exercises, and also makes a great meditation cushion.

        Hello Oral Care Toothpaste (2 Pack)$15.97|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Activated bamboo charcoal and coconut oil are a winning combination when it comes to whitening your teeth, and they're the active ingredients behind this toothpaste that's a perennial Amazon best-seller. Though it comes out black, you'll be delighted with the remarkable effect it has on your teeth, leaving them noticeably brighter in just days as it busts plaque — all without chemicals. No worries about the taste of charcoal, either: it tastes of mint, just like a traditional, store-bought toothpaste would.

        Natural Solution Lavender Neti Inhaler$9.50$8.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Formulated to relieve the symptoms of nasal congestion while also providing a relaxing lavender scent, this inhaler blends Himalayan sea salt with therapeutic essential oils — including eucalyptus to relieve the build-up of mucus in your nasal passages, and lavender to soothe your stress away. The 100 percent natural inhaler is a terrific drug-free answer for colds, allergies, and asthma any time of the year.

        Magnum Solace Dead Sea Magnesium Oil$12.95|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Just a few spritzes of this magnesium spray on the soles of your feet — or really, anywhere on your body — and you'll be well on your way to repleting your body's stores of this essential mineral that are probably depleted. A magnesium deficit can contribute to all kinds of nasty symptoms, like muscle cramps, insomnia, anxiety, and headaches of all kinds, and this travel-size bottle is also perfect for calming stress on-the-go.

        Nomader Collapsible Water Bottle$26.95$24.95|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Ideal for travel as well as use while hiking, camping, or engaging in outdoor sports, this water bottle is made from flexible, BPA-free silicone and topped off with a leak-proof cap. The heat-resistant silicone can even be used for hot beverages (and this means that it's also dishwasher-safe for easy clean-up) — plus, the wide mouth of this bottle means that you can easily load it up with fruit to make customized spa water that will hit the spot.

        Syntus Himalayan Salt Lamp$15.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Enjoy the power of air-purifying negative ions with this Himalayan salt lamp that plugs in to your wall socket and, with its warm, pleasant glow, can be used as a night light in any room in your house. A great stress reliever as well as a natural cleanser for your indoor environment, its irritant-eliminating properties are excellent for people with allergies and asthma.

        BedShelfie$49.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Crafted from eco-friendly, sustainably harvested bamboo, this bedside tray is the perfect companion for anyone whose base of operations is their bed. It installs in just seconds without tools by clamping onto your bed frame — and holds up to 15 pounds of books, electronics, and your water bottle. It won't damage your wood surfaces, thanks to thick felt pads that provide cushioning.

        SoJourner Bags Hydration Pack$30|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Apparently if you're big on the rave scene, hydrating is an important component of the overall experience, which explains the many groovy design options you can choose from when buying this pack. So why not invest in something that will tickle your fancy while whetting your whistle on the trail or at the campsite, too? With a 2-liter capacity, the low profile of this PVC- and BPA-free pack makes it suitable for everyone from kids to adults, and the inner bladder is antimicrobial and made from FDA-approved materials.

        FOVAL Car Power Inverter$16.98|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
I once spent the entirety of a car ride from South Carolina to Maine programming a very complex website thanks to my power inverter. I don't recommend trying this at home, but the great thing about this power inverter is that it means you can pretty much do anything in your car: Dry your hair, blend up a smoothie, watch TV, or toast a grilled cheese. Please note that while many of these things are not recommended while driving, it is totally indispensable for tailgates.

        Prepworks by Progressive Jar Grips$3.45|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
The perfect trio for opening whatever stubborn containers stand in your way, these grippers are crafted from rubber so that they give you a firm and ever-so-slightly tacky grasp on whatever you're trying to crack into. Whether your pickles are your problem or it's olives you can't open, they're thin enough to provide a sensation of contact with your lid's surface, and the various textures on the set of three generate friction to get the opening underway.

        Lanbrella Compact Folding Reverse Umbrella$22.95|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
You've seen those umbrellas that fold up inside themselves so that they don't drip all over the place and all over you — but they're huge and unwieldy. This travel umbrella is the best of both worlds: it folds up like the others, but is the perfect size for toting along on-the-go. Available in a wealth of designs and constructed from high-density waterproof fabric, it's engineered with fiberglass ribs that span a full 46 inches for expansive protection without being huge and bulky.

        Blenderelle Makeup Blender Sponge Storage Case$16$10|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
What on Earth do you do with that makeup blender sponge once you've used it and washed it off? Someone had the genius idea to make this case that solves exactly that problem, storing any shape of sponge to keep it hygienic and make sure it stays debris-free for travel. It features a pattern that looks pretty but also provides enough airflow to let the sponge dry naturally: just twist the top to open and gain easy access to your favorite makeup tool.

        NatraCure Moisturing Gel Socks$19.99$14.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Slip on these socks for a deeply hydrating treatment while you sleep — how about that for a dreamy pedicure? The socks feature a gel lining that's imbued with medical-grade mineral oil that's blended with jojoba, olive, and grape seed therapeutic botanical oils. When you slip your feet in, your body heat warms the lining to release the oils so they can soften and pamper your feet. The outside of the socks is luxe and fluffy, capped with non-slip treads on the bottom for safety.

        FUNCHOP Chopstick Helpers (10 Pack)$4.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
If you're chopstick-challenged, these little helpers are for you. Made from flexible PVC, they're designed to hold those disposable wooden chopsticks in place while you "train" to use them effectively. Great for kids and adults alike, you'll be shoveling up even tiny, hard-to-eat food like rice in no time. These come packaged like multi-colored candy — you'll get a selection of hues — and are suitable for multiple uses.

        TSLA Bike Shorts$16.98|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Bike shorts are all the rage right now, but this pair adds somethings that's truly genius — pockets. Each leg has a pocket that's right-sized to hold a smartphone, keys, money, debit cards or a license and other IDs — whatever you need while you're getting active. They're available in five colors in varying lengths, all crafted from a polyester-spandex blend that bounces back but is breathable at the same time, and has a high waistband.

        Savvy Infusion Water Bottle$28.95$13.55|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Crafted from shatter-proof Tritan plastic that's also BPA-free, this water bottle has a core that's perfect for containing the fresh fruits and herbs like mint that you love to flavor your water, and it's topped off with a handled cap that has a leak-proof silicone seal that eliminates all the messes. Enjoy delicious, refreshing water that's flavored just like those you get at the spa wherever you are, and this bottle is sized perfectly to fit in most standard cup holders, so it's the ultimate travel buddy.

        Auxiwa Clip on Selfie Ring Light $13.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Providing a simple way to look great in selfies or easily light up a makeup tray when you're in the back of an Uber or on the go in a plane or on the train, this clip-on light gives you soft illumination that's much friendlier than your smartphone's built-in flash. It works perfectly with portrait mode and won't scratch your lens or the case — thanks to the mount's attached sponge.

        Shape+Store The Smart Cookie Cookie Container And Cutter$24.55|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Made from BPA- and phthalate-free food-grade silicone that's heat-resistant and dishwasher-safe, this storage stacker portions cookie dough, sauces, or even stews and other prepared soft foods into discrete portions for freezing. The honeycomb design divides into 12 servings and saves space in the freezer, while several stack like a charm. Portions pop out easily from the silicone tray with a simple press from the back, too.

        Vtin SoundHot Waterproof Bluetooth Speaker$16.99$13.59|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Waterproof and with a convenient hanging strap, this speaker is a great asset for the pool, when you're taking a bath, at the beach, on picnics, or anytime you're in the great outdoors. With crystal-clear sound and 10 hours of playtime on a full charge from any Bluetooth-compatible device, you can rock on from any location — even the hiking trail or your way back from the dorm: Just clip it on to your backpack and you're good to go.

        OxyLED Motion Sensor Closet Lights$14.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Designed to turn on automatically whenever it senses motion within a 10-foot radius, these motion lights mount easily with included adhesive strips, but screws are also included for those who prefer a more permanent mount. While the 10 LEDs in each light also provide ultra-bright illumination, they're energy-saving to provide efficient lighting, and also have an automatic shut-off feature so they extinguish themselves after about 18 seconds of sensing a lack of motion. These lights are perfect for those hard-to-light spaces like closets, hallways, and the garage.

        Wikor Toothbrush/Toothpaste Set$8|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Complete with an automatic toothpaste dispenser to eliminate the mess from all over your countertop, this set can be a real game-changer in the bathroom. It installs easily with super-strong adhesive pads that are suitable for ceramic, metal, glass — even the shower — and will hold any standard, non-electric toothbrush and standard tube of paste.

        Inomata Japanese Rice Washing Bowl $6.99$1.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Made from food-grade plastic, this bowl is purpose-made with drainers on both the sides and the bottom to allow for thorough and quick washing of rice and other small grains like lentils. The side handles provide for easy manipulation underneath a water faucet, and it's also great for washing fruit and vegetables. The bowl is heat-resistant to 248 degrees, so it's top-rack dishwasher safe for easy cleaning.

        Sorbus 360° Bamboo Storage Carousel$39.99$27.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Crafted from eco-friendly bamboo that's renewable and sustainably harvested, this organizer will look not just at home but incredibly stylish in any bathroom and will help keep it tidy, too, ensuring that cosmetics, facial creams, or shaving tools and accessories are up and off of the countertop. The base allows it to rotate on a full 360-degree axis, so that all of the products are accessible at all times.

        LOVE, LORI My Solemate Pumice Stone + Soap$24.98$14.50|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Get your feet cleaned and smoothed out all at one time with this sudser that's backed with a callus-removing, pumice-like stone. The deeply moisturizing soap is made with a blend of shea butter, aloe, and vitamin E to hydrate the rough spots as it cleans paired with a delightful lemongrass scent, and the reverse has a scrubber that will remove dead skin from even the toughest dry heels and tired tootsies.

        Wonder Hangers (10 Pack)$15|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Save space in your closets with these hangers that triple the amount of room you have for all your clothes — so you can go out and buy more, of course. These durable hangers come ready to use, and they will keep your clothes hanging straight so they're wrinkle-free when you're ready to wear them. Suitable for use with any type of hanger, each will hold up to 30 pounds, so they're suitable for storing even your heaviest jeans and coats.

        Old Home Kitchen Microfiber Mop Pads (Set Of 2)$10.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Love that spray mop you have but feel guilty about using the disposable pads? These pads attach easily with secure wraparound Velcro tabs that won't obstruct those little sprayer heads, and they're washable so they're much more eco-friendly. Plus, they're made from absorbent microfiber that actually delivers a much better clean — and will save you on the fluid, too. These also work dry to clean hair and dirt off of your floors.

        Deiss® PRO Dual Julienne & Vegetable Peeler$21.24$9.98|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
My dog is seriously jealous of all the tricks this peeler does: Not only does it remove the skin from vegetables like carrots and cucumbers, but it will cut that carrot into rounds, peel fruits like apples, make all kinds of bar garnishes, julienne vegetables, pull the eyes off of potatoes, cut fresh potato chips, and probably lots more. It's engineered to be durable, with a non-corrosive stainless steel handle and an ergonomic, non-slip handle.

        Plixio Memory Foam Pillows (2-Pack)$33|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Made with a blend of eco-friendly bamboo-rayon and polyester, these queen-size memory foam pillows are a steal at $33 for a pack of two. The memory foam has cooling properties and helps support your head without losing its shape over time. Meanwhile, the removable cover is machine-washable, not to mention breathable and hypoallergenic.

        Asutra Mist Your Mood$14.95|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Scented with lavender essential oil, this spray is 100 percent natural — and formulated to provide the relaxing scent that can provide mental clarity and soothe jangled nerves in a blend you can trust to be completely free of chemicals. It's safe enough to use on your linens and even your body, and it's cruelty-free and not tested on animals.

        Ninja Express Chop Food Chopper$24.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Spend less time in the kitchen and more time with your guest thanks to this device that makes prep work fly by. The cup has a 16-ounce capacity, perfect for chopping and mixing up salsa without messing up a cutting board or a bunch of different bowls — and the stainless steel blades won't corrode. The chopping head operates easily enough for someone with hand-strength deficits to operate, thanks to its ergonomic design, too.

        Bissell Featherweight Convertible Vacuum$29.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Weighing in at just 3 pounds, this vacuum is easy to carry up and down the stairs and throughout the house, and it doesn't skimp on functionality, either: It's a stick vacuum that also converts to a hand vacuum and a stair-style model to get every area of your floors clean. Suitable for use on carpet, hardwoods, and tile, this system is also great for cleaning upholstery and is powered by a strong motor for hard-working suction.

        YoulerTex Microfiber Hair Towel Wrap (2 Pack)$9.96|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
If you have curly or thick hair that takes a long time to dry — then you need to try these microfiber hair towels. They wick away moisture for a quicker air dry (or a shorter blow dry), but do so without damaging or breaking hair like cotton towels can. They also cause less frizz, and are great for curls and waves.

        I Dew Care Sugar Kitten Peel-Off Mask$34.50|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
This fun, iridescent mask peels off (saving you a washcloth in the process) — and contains real ruby and pearl powder, which leaves behind a glowing, hydrating complexion. One reviewer writes: "I have super sensitive skin that reacts to almost everything, but this mask has kept my skin super soft, and blemish free. Even when I do get a blemish, I use the mask, and it’s basically gone by the next day."

        BAGGU Duck Bag Canvas Tote$32|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
This fun canvas tote is the bag that will take you from work to play — it's large enough to store your laptop, and has lots of room for things like gym clothes, a bottle of wine, textbooks, or produce from the farmer's market. It has a snap closure, a zippered pocket, a shoulder strap, and hand straps, too. It comes in a few different colors, and is made from recyclable materials.

        Surphas Over The Sink Dish Drying Rack$39.99$25|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
This dish drying rack fits over the sink so you can save yourself some countertop space. It's coated in silicone that's heat-resistant, so you can use it as a trivet, too. It's also oil-resistant, so it's incredibly easy to clean.

        Bustle may receive a portion of sales from products purchased from this article, which was created independently from Bustle's editorial and sales departments.
      
