
# 'Too early to tell' if Céspedes plays in 2020

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:32:00+00:00**

Author: **Anthony DiComo**

Original: [MLB.com](https://www.mlb.com/news/yoenis-cespedes-injury-may-keep-him-out-for-2020)

NEW YORK -- Heading into a critical offseason full of roster concerns, the Mets have no idea if Yoenis Céspedes will be physically capable of playing in 2020.
Asked several times Monday about Céspedes’ status, general manager Brodie Van Wagenen offered different versions of the same answer: “Too early to tell.”
“At this point, Ces is rehabbing,” Van Wagenen said. “We’ll obviously evaluate his health and performance as we get closer.”
And again: “We’ll take it day by day. As you guys have heard us talk about injuries in the past, it’s impossible to predict the future. So we’ll wait and see.”
And finally: “To be clear, I do not have enough information to predict when he’s going to be back.”
Céspedes, who has one year and $29.5 million left on the $110 million contract that Van Wagenen helped negotiate, has not played since announcing in July 2018 that he would undergo twin operations to remove bone matter and calcification from each of his heels. The Mets hoped he might join them for the second half of 2019, but Céspedes fractured his right ankle in a “violent fall” at his ranch in Florida early last summer, and he has been rehabbing from that injury, as well as his other surgeries, ever since.
The Mets are recouping at least some portion of Céspedes’ contract via insurance, but they have not reinvested that into player payroll. As such, his status is a concern entering the winter.
“I think you have to be openminded to everything in the offseason,” Van Wagenen said. “We went into last year with a little bit of uncertainty on the same level with Ces, and we’ll continue to make sure we have depth options and have impact players around the diamond.”
