
# Teen says peers attacked her because she's Latina

Published at: **2019-11-03T02:54:18+00:00**

Author: **Marla Carter**

Original: [ABC7 Los Angeles](https://abc7.com/teen-says-peers-attacked-her-because-shes-latina/5665516/)

KATY, Texas -- A Texas teenager is left shaken after she says she was repeatedly punched on the school bus.The Katy High School student said the incident left her so distraught, she's had nightmares.Cellphone video obtained by ABC13 shows punches being thrown.A teen appears to repeatedly raise her arm and punch someone in the back of the school bus.Michell Carvajal, a Venezuelan refugee, says she was the one that was hit and claims the girl who hit her had been bullying her."She would say, like, 'Go back to your country. Speak English,'" said Michell. "'We don't want you here, if you're going to be here talk in English.'"Then it escalated.Michell says the girl started something with her friend, who was speaking Spanish."I told her, 'What is your problem? You don't have to be rude just because we're Latino. We have the same rights as you,'" she said. "That's when she started hitting me."Michell says she was left with bruises and bumps on her head but, it's the emotional wounds that are still healing."When I go to bed, I go crying. I can't even sleep," she said.Friday was the first time Michell took the bus since the incident happened two weeks ago. She said she was nervous."I was shaking. I was sweating," she said.Katy ISD says the student involved has been punished.The district sent ABC13 the following statement:The District is aware of the report concerning an allegation of an assault on a Katy ISD school bus. Katy ISD campus administration and police immediately investigated and administered disciplinary consequences pertaining to that report. While FERPA protects the privacy of students involved in both open and closed investigations, campus and District staff take great care in ensuring families are well-informed about policy and procedures. Any concerns families have about investigations should be directed to their campus, school district or Katy ISD police.With that said, the safety and well-being of all Katy ISD students is of the upmost importance on every one of the District's campuses. Any behaviors that may threaten the safety of any child are not tolerated. As such, students determined to be involved in such activity face swift disciplinary consequences in accordance with the Katy ISD Discipline Management, Student Code of Conduct and law enforcement.
