
# Razer launches two new Basilisk wireless gaming mice

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:08:00+00:00**

Author: **Henry Burrell**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/news/pc-peripheral/razer-basilisk-wireless-gaming-mice-3777415/)

Razer has announced two new wireless gaming mice, the Razer Basilisk Ultimate and the Razer Basilisk X HyperSpeed. Despite the names, both mice have Razer’s HyperSpeed tech in them, its wireless tech that it claims it has 25% faster click latency than other brands.
This kind of tech is advantageous if you’re PC gaming and want the fastest in-game reaction to your swipes and clicks. The Basilisk Ultimate is the high-end mouse here at £169/$169, while the Basilisk X HyperSpeed is a more palatable £59/$59.
The extra spend on the Basilisk Ultimate gives you 99.6% resolution accuracy, the ability to change the GB lights through 14 different tones and full customisation of its 11 buttons, DPI sensitivity, acceleration, and lift off and landing distance.
If you’re more no nonsense, the Basilisk X HyperSpeed cuts down the lights, uses mechanical instead of optical switches and can use Bluetooth to connect instead of Wi-Fi. Both mice can also be used wired.
“With the Basilisk Ultimate, we have combined the fastest wireless technology with even more customizable features than its predecessor. As for the Basilisk X HyperSpeed, it supports the highest battery life in any wireless gaming mouse,” said Alvin Cheung, Senior Vice President of Razer’s Peripherals Business Unit. “Both mice are perfect for gamers who want full wireless control and responsiveness.”  
