
# Baxter hits full truth mode after Saracens no show at EPCR launch

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:09:28+00:00**

Author: **By Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/baxter-hits-full-truth-mode-after-saracens-no-show-at-epcr-launch)

Exeter director of rugby Rob Baxter does not expect Saracens to be stripped of two Premiership titles for breaching salary cap regulations, although he would love to see those trophies at Sandy Park.
The Chiefs finished runners-up in the last two seasons to Saracens, who on Tuesday were handed a 35-point deduction in this season’s Gallagher Premiership and fined more than £5million.
Both sanctions will be suspended while Saracens appeal, but Baxter admits events have left a bitter taste with him.
“If this is upheld it’s pretty obvious those titles have been won unfairly,” Baxter said at the season-launch of the Heineken Champions Cup in Cardiff.
“If you’re asking me would I like to walk into Sandy Park and see three Premiership trophies there, I would love to.

        Click here to see the video
      
“In reality do I see that happening? No. There are too many other factors that come into play.”
“I believe the way we played in the final last year would have beaten any other team in the Premiership.
“But the whole truth is if Saracens had been operating with a different group of players last season they may not have got to the final and if a different team had been there they might have outperformed us on the day.
“It would be ridiculous for me to say they were givens. How many results could have been different in the course of a season and the top four could have been created differently.
