
# After Boris Johnson visits Cambridge - five times the Tories let down the city

Published at: **2019-11-01T01:03:36+00:00**

Author: **Nicola Bartlett, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/nicola-bartlett/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/after-boris-johnson-visits-cambridge-20785709)

Boris Johnson spent the first day of the election campaign visiting Addenbrooke's hospital in Cambridge.
There he was challenged by 23-year-old medical student Julia Simons about his government's record on the NHS and her fears about what a trade deal with Trump's US could mean for the health service.
Cambridge is seen as an affluent area because of the University and picture-perfect images of students punting down the river Cam.
But the city is deeply divided with pockets of deprivation a stone’s throw away from the wealthy city centre.
These are a few of the ways the Tories have failed the city:
1 They tried to shut down the city’s magistrates court and sell off the building “to generate funds for the court and tribunal services” but a Labour-backed campaign saved it.
2 Now they are trying to close the Crown Post Office in the city centre and move it into WHSmith as part of a bigger plan to relocate up to 40 post offices across the UK into branches of the stationer.
3 They tried to academise St Phillip’s Primary School in the city centre but were resisted. Local MP Daniel Zeichner raised it in Parliament and eventually the plans were scrapped.
 
4 City schools have seen massive cuts. Netherhall School head Chris Tooley says the £200,000 reduction in the secondary and 6th form school’s funds next year is “terrifying”. And St Matthew’s Primary is getting £60,000 less.
5The Tories want to move the police station out of the centre and into the village of Milton on the outskirts. The current building on Parkside occupies a prime plot of land valued at £35million in December 2016.
