
# Michelle Dockery and Phoebe Waller-Bridge's brother Jasper 'find love' after her fiancé's death

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:00:55+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/michelle-dockery-phoebe-waller-bridges-17192173)

Downton Abbey actress Michelle Dockery has reportedly found love with the brother of Phoebe Waller-Bridge.
Michelle is reportedly in a new relationship with the sibling of the Fleabag actress and creator.
She is with Jasper Waller-Bridge four years after the death of her fiancé, sources have claimed.
Michelle tragically lost her fiancé John Dineen to cancer at just 34.
The 37-year-old had been engaged to the Irish publicist for a year when he tragically died in 2015.
Waller-Bridge, 31, has been dating the actress for three months, it is claimed.
They have previously been pictured together, with snaps surfacing of the duo enjoying the Rome Film Festival together earlier this year.
Jasper is six years younger than Michelle and works for a talent agency.
 
The agency's roster includes the likes of This Morning star Holly Willoughby, with I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! and Britain's Got Talent presenting duo Ant McPartlin and Declan Donnelly also on their books.
A source told the  Mail On Sunday : "It was all taken slowly and in a considered manner but they are really enjoying being together.
 
"Michelle has been travelling a lot to promote the Downton movie but they have been in constant contact. Their friends and families are very happy for them. It is just so lovely."
