
# Crypto News From Turkey: Oct. 24–Nov. 2

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:42:00+00:00**

Author: **Joeri Cant**

Original: [Cointelegraph](https://cointelegraph.com/news/crypto-news-from-turkey-oct-24nov-2)

In this week’s selected cryptocurrency- and blockchain-related news from Cointelegraph Turkey, the Turkish edition of Cointelegraph launched, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao announced that he will be visiting Turkey to speak at the Capital Market Summit in November, and a Turkish CEO is convinced that Bitcoin (BTC) ads during soccer games are the right tool to bring BTC to the masses.
Here is the past week of crypto and blockchain news in review, as originally reported by Cointelegraph Turkey.
On Oct. 24, Cointelegraph’s global coverage expanded again with the launch of its Turkish edition. Turkey joined Cointelegraph’s existing bureaus in Germany, Italy, Brazil, Japan, Korea, Spain, and Serbia. 
Erhan Kahraman, the editor who will lead the charge, said that Cointelegraph Turkey will expand the global presence of Cointelegraph in the region and will “create a local knowledge base for newcomers to the crypto community, while also covering breaking news from around the globe, price analysis, and market updates for veteran traders.”
Cointelegraph reported that Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao, also known as CZ within the crypto community, will be attending and speaking at the Turkish Capital Market Summit, which will be held in Istanbul from Nov. 19–20, 2019.
CZ will join members of Turkey’s presidential administration. Dr. Ali Taha Koç, the Head of the Digital Transformation Office of the Presidency of the Republic of Turkey and Arda Ermut, the Head of the Investment Office of the Presidency. The summit also invited major figures in the banking sector, investors and top executives, such as CEO of major holding company Koç Holding, Levent Çakıroğlu.
Gokhan Seckin, the CEO of digital ID firm Kimlic, will present CZ with a number of questions that are selected by the Turkish community. 
Having started its operations at the beginning of July 2013, BtcTurk was the first of five cryptocurrency exchange platforms in Turkey. The exchange has attracted great attention not only in the local press but also worldwide, with a multitude of sponsorship agreements and visual ads in the world of sports, more specifically, soccer.
The CEO of BtcTurk, Özgür Güneri, said during an interview with Cointelegraph Turkey on Oct. 30 that Bitcoin ads displayed during Turkish soccer games are the right tool for reaching the masses.
In the same interview, Güneri commented on the comparison of Bitcoin to the role of gold as a store of value. He said: “Needs determine where Bitcoin is going. But I do not think that the first priority is to buy coffee.” 
The CEO of the Interbank Card Center Soner Canko, said during a YouTube podcast hosted by Özgür Güneri that the most important problem in the financial world is the trust between parties. The CEO is seemingly convinced that this can be eliminated with blockchain technology, adding that cryptocurrencies are in demand because they provide a solution to this problem of trust in the world. He said:
