
# Lifelike sex robots that walk, talk and 'breathe' could soon go on sale

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:56:37+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/lifelike-sex-robots-walk-talk-20787524)

While sex robots were once confined to science fiction, they’re now very much a reality - and they’re getting more and more lifelike.
Now, one sex robot firm has claimed that it’s creating a sex robot that can ‘breathe’, as well as walk and talk.
Cloud Climax, UK agent for AI-AITech, says that it’s adapting its ‘Emma’ sex robot, so she’s even more human-like.
Speaking to the Daily Star , Cloud Climax manager Sam White explained: “Eventually Emma will be able to move her arms and have a chest cavity that ‘breathes’.
“Further still, she will be able to use her legs and walk.”
 
A less advanced version of Emma is currently on sale for the hefty price of £2,799.
The current version is AI-capable, meaning it can hold a conversation with its owner, and even make facial expressions and blink.
Mr White added: “Our dolls are already able to replace a physical human being for our customers and this can work on an emotional level as well as a physical one.
“Emma is equipped with Artificial Intelligence. If you tell her you like something she will remember.
“You can also tell her to remember something and she will remember it for you: 'Emma, it is my grandmother's birthday next Tuesday, please remind me to send her card on Monday’.”
It remains unclear when AI-AITech plans to release the ‘breathing’ version of Emma, or how much it will cost.
