
# Tuesday deals: Anker Gold Box from $11, Nest IQ bundle, Assistant smart plugs, more

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:31:01+00:00**

Author: **Trevor Daugherty**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/05/anker-gold-box-nest-iq-bundle/)

Amazon’s new Anker Gold Box offers deals from $11, plus a notable discount on Nest IQ Outdoor Cameras and TP-Link Assistant-enabled smart plugs. Hit the jump for all that and more in the latest 9to5Toys Lunch Break.
Today only, Amazon is offering various Anker accessories from $11. Free shipping is available for Prime members or in orders over $25. Our top pick is the PowerCore II Slim 10000 mAh Power Bank for $25. It typically goes for $35 or so. Today’s deal is the second-best offer we’ve tracked all-time. This model offers enough to juice to power up the latest iPhone and Android devices multiple times. Its slim design makes it all the more ideal for pairing with modern smartphones. Check out the rest of today’s sale right here.
BuyDig is offering a 2-pack of Nest IQ Wired Outdoor Security Cameras and a 3-pack of Google WiFi 802.11ac Routers for $699. For comparison, the cameras themselves have a list price of $700. Google WiFi goes for around $250 generally speaking, saving you upwards of $259 here. This is Nest’s higher-end cameras, offering up a 4K sensor, 24/7 livestreaming, HDR, and waterproofing for a well-rounded experience. Plus, Google WiFi offers a super simple networking setup. And with three separate nodes, your entire house will be blanketed with 802.11ac coverage. Learn more in our previous coverage.
Today only, Best Buy’s official eBay storefront offers the TP-Link Kasa KP200 In-Wall Dual Outlet Smart Plug for $15. Usually selling for closer to $40, like you’ll currently find at Amazon right now, today’s offer beats the all-time low there by $7 and marks the best we’ve tracked overall to date. Featuring two independently controllable outlets, this in-wall smart plug is ideal for automating lamps and other accessories around the house. Plus, it works with Alexa and Assistant, as well as with a smartphone app that yields scheduling functionality and more. Another benefit is that you won’t need an extra hub to bring TP-Link’s smart plug into your setup.
Amazon offers the Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 10.5-inch 64GB Tablet with S Pen for $450. Also available at Best Buy. Having dropped from $550, today’s offer is good for a $100 discount, beats our previous mention by $49, and marks a new all-time low. With a 10.5-inch sAMOLED screen, three built-in speakers, expandable microSD card storage, and other features, Samsung’s tablet is as notable as they come in the Android world at this price point. Galaxy Tab S4 also supports Samsung DeX functionality, which allows you to covert the tablet into a full-blown computer. And the added S-Pen helps you unlock your creativity or be a master notetaker. 
Best Buy’s official eBay storefront offers the TP-Link Deco M9 Plus 802.11ac Mesh Wi-Fi Smart Home Router for $180. Also available at Best Buy direct. Usually selling for $245, like you’ll find right now at Amazon, that’s good for an over 26% discount, beats our previous mention by $20, and is the best we’ve seen. TP-Link’s Deco M9 Plus can support over 100 connected devices and covers up to 4,500 square feet with Tri-Band 802.11ac Wi-Fi as well as 1.5Gb/s of throughput. Another perk found on this system is that it doubles as a smart home hub, allowing you to connect Zigbee, Bluetooth, and Wi-Fi accessories to the mesh routers.
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
