
# Boots slash price of No7 gift sets and they are being snapped up like hot cakes

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:45:23+00:00**

Author: **Chantelle Symester, https://www.facebook.com/csymester/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/shopping-deals/boots-slash-price-no7-gift-20816152)

Boots has slashed the price of selected No7 gift sets as shoppers gear up for the festive shopping rush.
The popular high street chain is offering up to 50% off selected gift set bundles in store and online at boots.com .
The limited offer includes the popular No7 Protect & Perfect Intense Advanced Collection for £56 - saving shoppers a whopping £58.10 off the original £114 price tag.
The retailer announced the deal on its official Facebook page over the weekend, writing: "STOP.EVERYTHING.  No7  gifts are now better than half price. The perfect excuse to get some Xmas pressies ticked off that list".
 
Since the announcement on social media, which received over 26K views, gift sets are being snapped up like hot cakes online, with hundreds of orders already processed today alone.
 
The added bonus is that the deal can be combined with other eligible offers currently running in stores and online too, helping customers maximise savings on their shop.
Although not all sets are included there are plenty of other great value offers available including 3 for 2 on a wide range of No7 products .
Boots are also running 25% off selected No7 Christmas gifts , including stocking filler sets under £10 and skincare sets normally worth £50.
If you're stuck for Christmas gifting inspiration, why not take a browse of our best gifts for him and best gifts for her to get you started.
Anyone holding out for a bargain should head to our official Black Friday page to find out all the latest updates for key retailers including Boots in the run up to the big day on 29 November too.
