
# Council tears down four brand-new homes which cost nearly £1million - because of poisonous gas

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:00:03+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/council-tears-down-four-brand-17196500)

A council has been forced to tear down four brand new homes which cost nearly £1m to build - because they were blighted by poisonous GAS.
The unoccupied houses were razed to the ground after it was discovered they’d been built on top of a ‘burning coal seam’ which had flooded the properties with potentially deadly carbon monoxide.
Residents living nearby the two-storey properties were given carbon monoxide detectors ahead of the demolition which took place in July this year.
Construction of the properties began in December 2017 as part of a multi-million-pound scheme to improve council housing in Chesterfield, Derbs.
A decision was then taken to bulldoze the council-owned properties just off Rufford Close so the coal seam could be 'extracted'.
Chesterfield Borough Council now says it’s currently considering its position with regards to possible legal action.
But the "waste of public money" has sparked outrage amongst locals in the area after it cost £833,584.61 to build the four brand new homes.
A female Rufford Close resident, who did not want to be named, said: "Those houses must have cost hundreds of thousands of pounds to build, so it seems a right waste.
“The money and time could have been spent on other things.
"It's better they found out now though before families moved in. I'm worried about what will happen when they start digging things up but it's better to be safe than sorry."
Construction of the four new homes began in December 2017 as part of a scheme to provide improved council housing across the borough.
The problems with raised carbon monoxide levels were first discovered in December 2018 before the houses were officially handed over to the council’s housing service to be let.
It’s understood that the homes were still in the final stages of construction when a carbon monoxide detector installed at one of the houses activated.
The Coal Authority was then contracted on behalf of Chesterfield Borough Council to lead demolition of the new properties.
Councillor Tricia Gilby, leader of Chesterfield Borough Council, said: “The safety of our residents is our key priority and we are confident that no other homes at Rufford Close have been affected. “I can confirm that the four new houses at Rufford Close were demolished in July this year.
“Kitchen and bathroom fittings, windows and doors and many other elements were removed prior to demolition for reuse in future building projects. “We have now received detailed advice from our experts on the ground conditions. “The investigations, which have been extensive, show that the coal seam is exposed and requires sealing to eradicate the risk of fire in the future. “The material that was brought on site to fill the void left following the removal of the coal seam prior to construction of the homes is also unsuitable and therefore needs to be removed.
 
“I can confirm there is no underground fire and the gases which were present in the demolished homes were as a result of chemical reactions in the material that had been brought on site. “The gases present were the same as you would expect from a burning coal seam, so the assumption made that we were dealing with an underground fire was valid and could only be accurately determined through detailed investigation of the ground conditions after the homes had been demolished.” Cllr Gilby said security arrangements will remain in place as a precaution and the council will work closely with the Coal Authority when works to seal the coal seam commence in early November. “Air pollution monitors and security arrangements will remain in place as a precaution throughout the process of removing the material from site, sealing the coal seam and filling the void with clean material,” she added.
“The council will work closely with the Coal Authority to manage the works and contractors on site. These works will commence early November 2019 and will last for approximately 18 weeks. “Following the works the site will be clean, and its future use will be subject to resident consultation.”
