
# U.S. Withdraws From Paris Accord, Ceding Leadership To China.

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ariel Cohen**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/arielcohen/2019/11/07/us-withdraws-from-paris-accord-ceding-leadership-to-china/)

On Monday November 4, President Donald Trump announced America’s formal withdrawal from the Paris Climate Accord, marking its latest abdication of global multilateral obligations. The implications will be far-reaching. The U.S. is ceding the leadership of international energy policy to the People’s Republic of China.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo took to twitter to make the announcement, while also submitting a notice to the United Nations. The decisions was condemned as a reckless failure of leadership by Accord signatories, environmental experts, and activists.
When the news hit the wires, they popped champagne corks in Beijing.
That’s because China is legitimately interested in leading the world in deployment and investment in renewable energy. The People’s Republic is currently the world’s largest producer of wind and solar energy and the largest investor in green energy projects. Five of the world’s six largest solar manufacturing companies can be found in China, as well as the world’s largest wind turbine manufacturer.
With U.S. leadership AWOL, Beijing can dictate policies and standards in the transition to renewables.
Russia did not miss an opportunity to kick Washington either. On Tuesday the Kremlin criticized the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate accord, saying it seriously undermined the agreement. Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov said “…without the largest economy in the world, it’s very, very hard to talk about any kind of climate agreement.”
This should not have come as a surprise, however. Trump has long been opposed to the Climate Accord, claiming that the agreement puts the United States at a great economic disadvantage. The president himself is also proud climate denier, tweeting back in 2012, “The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive.”
Whatever Trump believes, however, the majority of world’s institutions and climate scientists do not agree. The UNCCC, Pentagon, NASA, and The World Bank resoundingly back the science behind climate change. Climate change is real, and its impacts are being felt from California to Fiji.
The United States economy also depends on renewables: Americans in green energy jobs now outnumber those in fossil fuels by 3 to 1 (though this also speaks to the scale and efficiency achieved by the fossil fuel industry).  The solar sector now employs more than double the amount of coal workers in the U.S., and clean energy jobs grew 3.6 percent in 2018, adding about 110,000 new net jobs.
While Monday’s move marked the first step in the year-long withdrawal process, America’s exit is not official until November 4, 2020. This happens to be one day after the 2020 presidential election, where climate change will be a central issue. Should Trump lose, a new president could rejoin the agreement, but would have to put forth new climate commitments to the UN.

        Bad Optics
      
Put plainly, the U.S. abandonment of the Paris Agreement does not inspire international confidence. To pull out now, of a non-binding agreement no less, sends a signal to friends and foes alike that American commitments will not be honored.
Not only will American prestige and leadership suffer a major blow, but so too will American business.  According to the IFC, there is over $23 trillion in climate related business opportunities to be found by 2030 in emerging markets alone. Without concerted political and economic support from the U.S. government,  America’s chief competitors will have a leg up in the global renewables market.
The irony of course is that no country has done more to mitigate the effects of climate change in the past decade than the United States. While the U.S. holds the title of greatest historical contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, it led the world in carbon dioxide emission reduction from 2005 - 2017. Domestic emissions have declined by 758 million metric tons in that timeframe, almost beating the entire European Union’s 770 million metric tons.

        Enter China
      
In a recent briefing the Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesperson, Geng Shuang, stated “China regrets that the US began the process to withdraw from the Paris Agreement…we hope the US will act proactively and responsibly instead of pulling out.”
China, emboldened by the United States withdrawal, will use this as an opportunity to deepen ties with European partners and take a leadership role in the Accords. For example, both China and France have pledged at this year's G20 summit to "update" their contributions against climate change beyond their current ones to reflect "their highest possible ambition." Yes, this sounds fuzzy, but look no further than French President Macron’s recent statement, where he affirmed that “The cooperation between China and the European Union in this respect is decisive." This deepening partnership will likely come back to hurt the United States.
China is the world’s largest market for renewables, installing more wind and solar last year than the U.S., EU, Canada, India, Japan, Korea and Brazil combined (almost 65 GW). China’s wind capacity at the beginning of 2018 led the world with around 187 gigawatts (GW), compared to second place US with 89 GW and third place Germany with 56 GW. China’s cumulative installed solar capacity is 185.5 GW while the United States has yet to break 70 GW.
America’s withdrawal will also give other major emitters justification to not pick up the tab for future climate adaptation and mitigation costs. The United Kingdom, which this year became the first G20 economy to legislate for a ‘net zero’ 2050 emissions target, just saw its Chancellor renege on government pledges as outlined by their July Green Finance strategy. Further walk-backs of climate commitments could soon be the norm with the United States out of the Paris driver seat.  
America’s exit creates a leadership vacuum that America’s near-peer competitors like China will be eager to fill strategically and systematically. If the United States wants to maintain the mantel of leadership, it needs to reassess positions on global initiatives like the Paris Climate Accord. The future of the U.S. prestige and leadership are on the line.

        
          With assistance from John Vatian
        
      
