
# City To Go Dutch!

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/siyagobhoza/cape-town-city-are-looking-at-bringing-in-a-dutch-head-coach/666735)

Siya sources have indicated that Cape Town City are looking to bring in a European coach, particularly of Dutch origin.
The Citizens confirmed at midnight that Benni McCarthy’s contract at the club had been terminated, with Vasili Manousakis taking over the helm in the interim as they hunt for a new coach.
Intially Muhsin Ertugral and Cavin Johnson were believed to be the frontrunners for the vacant City job, however Siya sources have since indicated that bringing in a European coach is now their priority.
Indications are that City Chairman John Comitis is wanting to bring in a head coach from the Netherlands with a Dutch philosophy of football, with the club currently assessing several options, with one being the former Galatasaray and SC Heerenveen head coach, Jan Olde Riekerink.
As things stand, City are still assessing a number of options, although it seems that the Mother City-based outfit are keen on adding another Dutch technical member to their books, after the addition of Sjoerd Woudenberg as a first team goalkeeper coach.
City are expected to make an announcement about their plans for their technical team in the coming days although it remains to be seen who will take over the helm. The Siya crew will investigate further.
