
# Film maker Matt Curry described as 'an astounding human' after death following short illness

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Marie Louise McConville**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/02/news/well-known-film-maker-from-northern-ireland-described-as-an-astounding-human-after-he-passed-away-following-a-short-illness-1754327/)

A WELL-known film maker from Northern Ireland has been described as "an astounding human" after he passed away following a short illness.
Matt Curry, who was 47, died on Thursday morning at the Marie Curie Hospice.
A father-of-three, Mr Curry was considered one of the north's leading film makers and media consultants.
Many of his short films have been screened at international film festivals and he also worked on a number of BBC productions, including Panorama and Spotlight.
Mr Curry lived with his wife, Emma Jordan and their three daughters in south Belfast, although he was originally from Armagh.
In July, he had taken to Facebook to reveal he had cancer and had embarked on chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatment.
He said: "I am sharing because I want to remove the fear and anxiety associated with that word and this journey for me and for everyone else. There is no room for fear now, it’s an all out war with only one victor, ME".
Mr Curry's wife, Emma, who is the director of Prime Cut Productions, which is The Mac's resident company, posted an emotional tribute on Facebook following her husband's death.
"I'm so sorry to start this beautiful autumn morning with the heartbreaking news that Matt Curry my husband and best friend passed away this morning peacefully in my arms in the Marie Curie hospice - he only arrived here last night having been lovingly cared for at home by the amazing army of beloved family and friends who have held him close during this razoring 5 month journey from diagnosis to death.
"He was an astounding human - he was the centre of my and our girls world. We are broken-hearted as I know many of you will also be. Details of the arrangements to follow but on behalf of mat I want to say thanks to all of you who supported his journey with your loving messages along the way. Love is stronger than death".
A tribute was also posted on the People of Orangefield Park Facebook page. Mr Curry would walk his dogs there.
"One of are moderators has past on this morning. Matt Curry. A great man and a great friend Who cared about our community and the people in it. Rest in peace my friend".
Requiem Mass for Matt Curry will take place today at 10am at St Patrick’s Cathedral in Armagh. Burial will take place afterwards in St Patrick’s Cemetery, Armagh.
