
# BMW X5 xDrive30d M Sport review – SUV is extraordinary

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:22:54+00:00**

Author: **John Murdoch**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/motoring/bmw-x5-xdrive30d-m-sport-20828510)

FEW cars offer as much road presence as BMW’s mighty X5, which is now bigger and better than ever.
This fine German machine will also easily deal with the worst of our winter weather, muddy fields or stony tracks, although this car is more liable to be found on motorways or the school run rather than half way up a mountain.
I first drove an X5 20 years ago when it first arrived and it has gradually got more and more sophisticated – a fact recognised by the Association of Scottish Motoring Writers as this BMW has just won the Scottish Car of the Year (SCOTY) Awards’ Premium Crossover category.
It is now even chunkier than before with crisp looks, while the front is dominated by a massive grille that makes it look quite aggressive. The focus is still very much on on-road handling and performance, and it is an SUV that you can really enjoy driving hard.
Now in its fourth generation, it comes with an option of a third row of seats and a choice of petrol and diesel engines. I have been sampling the most popular – the 3.0-litre diesel that punches out a substantial 265hp and offers massive torque.
That means it is capable of 0-62mph in 6.5 seconds before going on to 143mph. And it is not just good in a straight line because the X5 handles the twisty stuff well and corners nicely despite its hefty bulk.
   
The steering is well weighted and provides good feedback, while the eight-speed gearbox switches smoothly through the cogs – but if you want some fun, you can also use the paddles. The brakes are fantastic – they need to be to slow this monster from speed – and the grip is also impressive.
You hardly hear the six-cylinder diesel inside the superb cabin, where there is stacks of space to stretch out and appreciate the high-quality leather and soft-touch materials.
The dash is dominated by a huge touchscreen that can also be operated by the latest version of iDrive via the circular controller. The rest of the instruments are typical BMW and there is also a clever head-up display on this vehicle.
It is packed with all the latest tech and the cabin also offers plenty cup holders, storage bins and pockets, as well as enough power sockets to keep the whole family happy.
The boot can take care of 650 litres of luggage and this can be increased to a massive 1,870 litres if you fold the rear seats flat.
This version of the X5, priced from £61,140, boasts all the latest safety equipment and you can add more from the extensive options list and personalise your vehicle in many different ways.
