
# WWE Raw Results: News And Notes After Night 2 Of NXT Invasion

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alfred Konuwa**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/alfredkonuwa/2019/11/04/wwe-raw-results-news-and-notes-after-night-2-of-nxt-invasion/)

WWE Raw aired a show that saw Brock Lesnar’s hunt for Rey Mysterio thwarted by an ambush from Mysterio himself. Mysterio will now go one-on-one with The Beast for the WWE Championship at Survivor Series. Shayna Baszler and Becky Lynch had a tense, non-physical showdown that was one of the highlights of Raw, while Adam Cole once again defended his NXT Championship, this time in a disqualification loss to Seth Rollins. By night’s end, NXT Superstars ambushed the Raw roster in a back-and-forth affair.
Last week’s episode of WWE Raw drew just 2.133 million viewers, the third-lowest viewership of a non-holiday show in the modern era. Though fallout from Crown Jewel (both in and out of the ring) and NXT’s invasion of Friday Night SmackDown should add buzz to Raw, a Cowboys-Giants game on Monday Night Football poses an ominous threat to viewership.

        WWE Raw Key Competition: 
      

        From the Forbes WWE Vault:
      
WWE Total YouTube Viewership for WWE Raw Last Monday: 13,053,700 views (up from 10,484,496)
Average Attendance for “A City”: 9,235
Average WWE Raw Ticket Price at the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum: $81
Estimated Live Gate for WWE Raw: $748,035

        WWE Raw Results: Monday, November 4, 2019
      

        Opening Segment Featuring Brock Lesnar Hunting for Rey Mysterio
      
Brock Lesnar did more speaking in this episode of Raw than his entire month-long stint on the USA Network.
Paul Heyman threatened that Brock Lesnar would commit a felony, and later on in the evening, he threatened to kill Jerry Lawler. If Brock Lesnar can get away with illegally quitting SmackDown, I guess they’re just testing the waters to see what he can’t get away with.

        Charlotte Flair and Natalya def. The Kabuki Warriors
      
I’m really hoping Charlotte Flair and Natalya go the way of Y2-AJ.
Unless there is another heel turn in this match, there is no way Charlotte and Natalya were going to lose this one.

        Rey Mysterio Lays out Brock Lesnar
      
The longer this night went on with no sign from Rey Mysterio, the more his seemingly infallible babyface stock took a hit.
It’s too early in Dio Maddin’s career to defend Jerry Lawler on commentary and really get a reaction. Also, boy does he take an awkward-looking F5.
If Rey Mysterio were to go on to somehow defeat Brock Lesnar, it very well might be the biggest pop of 2019.

        Buddy Murphy def. Cedric Alexander
      
Jerry Lawler noted he never tried to switch up his strategy for an opponent, he typically wrestled the same style throughout his career. Clearly, he applies the same philosophies to his jokes.
This crowd was only going to get so excited about a match between two “great workers” with nothing else to show for on WWE TV.

        Seth Rollins Addresses Universal Title Loss to The Fiend
      
Seth Rollins was dressed in all black ahead of this segment, a good sign for a much-needed heel turn.
Seth Rollins is frustrated that he is starting from scratch but I think that’s something he needs to take up with creative.
This Uniondale crowd seemed to love NXT more than even Buffalo did on Friday.
This whole segment was a build up to see if Seth Rollins would become the latest Caucasian cruiserweight to join the Undisputed Era.

        Andrade and Zelina Vega def. Sin Cara and Catalina
      
I can’t remember the last time a female luchador wrestled on WWE TV. This could be historic.
Catalina came within inches of screwing up multiple moves in this match.
WWE’s use of Catalina is everything you need to know about how not to introduce a babyface to a new audience.

        Rusev calls out Bobby Lashley
      
Rusev described the events over the past several weeks as “stupid drama,” which is WWE speak for “ratings killer!”
All Bobby Lashley had to do is say his groin was going through “mechanical issues" and he'd be the biggest heel in this company.
Uniondale was doing Rusev no favors by chanting “Rusev Day.” Nobody kills a dream faster than WWE.
Did Rusev work a clause into his contract where he gets to say all the curse words on Raw?

        Shayna Baszler Confronts Becky Lynch
      
This exchange from Shayna Baszler and Becky Lynch will sell a lot of tickets for Survivor Series, with 70% of them being sold by Shayna.
Shayna Baszler is too big of a star to have her early run set the stage for a Ronda Rousey return. I pray that’s not what this will lead to.

        The O.C. def. The Street Profits and Humberto Carrillo
      
SThe Best in the World tag team trophy is impressive and all, but the last thing Karl Anderson needed was a reminder from Saudi Arabia.
AJ Styles said he and The O.C. would make sure NXT would never step foot out of Orlando, which is a sound strategy to kill WWE NXT by having them lose the Wednesday Night War in that tiny building.
Jerry Lawler intentionally mispronouncing Humberto’s name as “umbrella” was actually quite hilarious.
Humberto Carrillo’s comeback was quieter than the delayed plane filled with exhausted wrestlers on its way back from Saudi Arabia.

        The Viking Raiders def. The East Hampton Polo Boys
      
The East Hampton Polo Boys is the greatest jobber tag team name I’ve ever heard.
WWE finally let The Viking Raiders cut a live promo and, honestly, that was a mistake.

        Seth Rollins def. Adam Cole via Disqualification—NXT Championship
      
During Triple H’s pitch to Seth Rollins, he conveniently left out his own betrayal of Seth Rollins in 2016.
Adam Cole’s reaction was decidedly less potent in front of a three-hour crowd.
Triple H gave an inspired performance as “Dad forced to watch his kids fight.”
Triple H (and/or his ego) couldn’t have possibly sat ringside during back-to-back world title matches without getting involved. That’s what I thought. I was wrong.
Between WWE Raw and Friday Night SmackDown, NXT is set up quite nicely to seize its first win of the Wednesday Night Wars.
