
# Teen breaks both legs after being hit by car in police chase and hurled through air

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:18:14+00:00**

Author: **Phoebe Ram**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/teen-hurled-through-air-breaks-20792095)

A teenager who was hurled through the air broke both her legs after she was hit by a car being pursued by police.
Danae Mills-Beresford, 15, was walking with her father, Nigel, when she was hit by the car travelling at 70mph, according to the dad.
The incident happened on Tuesday, October 29 around 10pm, when officers from Nottinghamshire Police tried to stop a Vauxhall Astra.
According to police watchdog the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC), which is investigating, a police chase ensued on the Broxtowe Estate when the Astra collided with Danae.
The car was abandoned in Bells Lane and the driver fled on foot.
Nigel, 32, is now desperate to find out who was driving the car that hit Danae - leaving her in need of multiple surgeries.
He said: "The car came out of nowhere. It was horrible. She's doing very well but she is lucky. She's got a long journey ahead of her."
The impact of the crash has left Danae with two broken legs were broken and a broken left arm.
She also has lacerations to her kidney and two black eyes, reports Nottinghamshire Live.
Her mum, Kelly Mills, 30 said there were fears Danae might lose her right leg due to a blockage in her main artery.
 
She is currently being treated in  Queen's Medical Centre  and will be having more surgery on Monday to her left leg and wrist.
Mr Beresford recalls the night of the incident, as he was walking with Danae talking about films on the way back from the shops.
Danae and her dad were crossing the road at the junction of Broxtowe Lane and Nuthall Road.
"I tried to push her out the way but she moved back," he said.
"So I grabbed her to pull her back but she got the full impact of the car into her right leg.
"She went into the air and landed quite far away. I was hysterical.
Mr Beresford recalls the night of the incident, as he was walking with Danae talking about films on the way back from the shops.
Danae and her dad were crossing the road at the junction of Broxtowe Lane and Nuthall Road.
"I tried to push her out the way but she moved back," he said.
"So I grabbed her to pull her back but she got the full impact of the car into her right leg.
"She went into the air and landed quite far away. I was hysterical.
"An off duty trauma doctor was driving nearby and came to help, followed by a police officer.
"It all happened so fast but it felt like slow motion. I moved away from the scene, and then drove behind the ambulance to the hospital."
Mr Beresford estimated the car was travelling around 70mph in what is a 30mph zone.
"I'm not happy there was a chase in the area. There were a lot of people still walking around.
"Danae is lucky to be alive.  One of her trainers is still missing from the night because of how hard she was hit.
"I've thanked a lot of people already for their support but it has been a difficult time. Everyone's been traumatised.
"Both her mum and I are spending most of our time in hospital with Danae.
"I want the people who did it to know what they're responsible for doing. I want justice for my daughter."
The case has been referred from Nottinghamshire Police to the  Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC).
A spokesman for the IOPC told Nottinghamshire Live: “We declared an independent investigation on October 30 and have begun to gather accounts from the officers involved, in-car footage from the police vehicles, and other relevant information.
"Our investigation is at an early stage and will examine the circumstances of the brief pursuit.
"We will be contacting the injured girl’s family to explain our role and provide what information we are able as our investigation progresses."
Please call Nottinghamshire Police on 101 if you have any information about the incident. You can also call  Crimestoppers  anonymously on 0800 555 111
