
# These are Nintendo's Black Friday 2019 deals for Switch

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Jordan Devore**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/these-are-nintendo-s-black-friday-2019-deals-for-switch-571833.phtml)

Nintendo is mostly focusing on big-hitters for Black Friday 2019 – Switch games that have, and will, continue to sell well for years to come. Case in point: the main hardware bundle this year is a $300 Nintendo Switch console that throws in a digital copy of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe (normally a $60 title).
That deal kicks off November 28, 2019 at Amazon, Target, Best Buy, Walmart, and GameStop.
Is there a catch? Well, kinda. A word of caution: this particular Nintendo Switch is the older model, HAC-001, with an expected battery life of 2.5 to 6.5 hours (certain games hog the battery more than others). The newer Switch model, HAC-001(-01), has an approximate battery life of 4.5 to 9 hours.
If you expect to primarily play your Switch in portable/handled mode, that comparison is definitely worth weighing. The newer battery makes a noticeable difference. Otherwise, if you're a TV player first and foremost, this might not be much of a factor for you. How do you tell them apart? The older Switch model has a product serial number starting with "XAW"; the newer model's serial begins with "XKW."
In terms of physical Switch game sales this Black Friday, we're looking at:
These games will be on sale for $40 – that's $20 off – at Amazon, Target, Best Buy, Walmart, and GameStop starting November 27, 2019. Super Mario Odyssey and Zelda: Breath of the Wild are the must-haves, but you (arguably) can't go wrong with the rest of that list aside from maybe Super Mario Party. (It's fine, just a bit underwhelming. Also, Mario Party games tear families apart.)
Those stores will also have the Poké Ball Plus – an optional accessory for Pokémon Go, Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Eevee!, and Pokémon Sword and Shield – for $20 on November 28. That's 60% off.
Lastly, Amazon, Target, and Best Buy will have Switch Joy-Con controllers marked down to $60 on November 27. That might not sound like a deal, but these things usually go for $80. Yes, it's ridiculous.
We don't yet know which digital games will make it into the Black Friday Switch eShop sale, but that's coming up. If you're a prospective Switch owner, keep an eye out for deals on microSD cards, too.
Black Friday deals [Nintendo]
Disclosure-bot: Just in case the editor neglected to mention it, we have zero control when deals start and end. Deals can sometimes be gone within minutes (please don't shoot the messenger). Trying deal links even hours after this article's time stamp may lead to self-punching, so maybe bookmark our video game deals if you're on the hunt. Also, it goes without saying, but some shopping links do directly support the author. If you've spotted any inaccuracy please let us know asap.
