
# The Sky Is The Limit for EY Entrepreneurial Winning Women

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Geri Stengel**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/geristengel/2019/11/06/the-sky-is-the-limit-for-ey-entrepreneurial-winning-women/)

Launched in 2008, the EY Entrepreneurial Winning Women program has supported high-potential women entrepreneurs with know-how, connections, and community. It started in the United States and Canada, then expanded to regional programs around the world. To be eligible for the program, a woman-owned business must have generated at least $2 million in revenue for each of the past two years. Women entrepreneurs participate in a two-day orientation and coaching session in New York City in September and the Strategic Growth Forum in Palm Springs, CA. It is being held from November 13 to 17, 2019. Since joining the program, companies have averaged a 35% compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) and 166% headcount growth, according to the 2017 EY Entrepreneurial Winning Women Global Impact Study.
This is a rarefied group. Only 1.7% of all women-owned businesses (222,100) pass the $1 million mark in the United States, according to American Express 2019 State of Women-Owned Businesses. A tiny percent of these would be able to maintain the year-over-year growth rates of the Winning Women.
Capital — not just financial — is critical to the growth of these companies. Human capital is the company's know-how. Knowledge not only increases the performance of the company but also reduces the risk of failure. Competency builds the confidence of entrepreneurs.
Social capital includes the people who use their clout to open doors to funders, partners, strategic alliances, customers, and suppliers. Social capital saves time and money, and helps entrepreneurs avoid pitfalls. "Who you know" is just as important as "what you know." The people around entrepreneurs — role models, mentors/advisors, professionals, peers/colleagues — shorten the path to information, resources, opportunities, and connections that can lead to success. The Winning Women program provides access to all three types of capital.
So, what value did women receive from being part of the Winning Women?
Nicole Smith, founder and CEO at Flytographer, started her company in 2013 to connect travelers with local photographers throughout the world. She thought the company's value proposition would be taking beautiful souvenir photos. Within the first year, she realized that the thing clients liked best about her service was the experience of connecting with local photographers who often served as informal tour guides.
Smith lives on a small island on the west coast of Canada. There weren't many mentors and peers to support her along her entrepreneurial journey. She felt isolated and alone. Being part of Winning Women in 2018 was a "goldmine of knowledge," she said. She received advice on fundraising, taxes, HR, operations, and work-life balance. "It was absolutely priceless," she said.
When she asked the women in her cohort what was the most transformative thing they had done for their business over the last couple of years, three mentioned they had read Traction: Get a Grip on Your Business by Gino Wickman. Smith hired an integrator to implement the Entrepreneurial Operating System (EOS) described in the book. "It has been transformative in how we operate," she said.
Ellen Stang is an MD from Plymouth Meeting, PA. In 2003, she started ProgenyHealth to provide comprehensive case management for neonatal intensive care units (NICU). Social determinants of health were not being addressed, which resulted in high readmission rates and rising health costs. Her belief was that to improve health outcomes; you had to address basic life needs, such as food, clothing, shelter, and a safe home environment. The company emphasizes a collaborative approach among doctors, hospitals, payers, and families to improve health outcomes and lower costs.
For Stang, participating in the Winning Women program in 2012 shifted her mindset. Now "the sky's the limit when it comes to scaling my business," she said. "[Being part of the program] was the wind beneath my wings." Importantly, the program provided connections and resources to turn the thought into a reality.
In 2009, Sarah Dusek created a safari-style camping experience in some of the United States' most beautiful outdoor destinations. Based in Bozeman, MT, Under Canvas, is a leader in the glamping industry — luxurious camping. She entered the program in 2017,under-connected and under-resourced. "Understanding how to raise funds, learning how others had navigated this path and the options available [was eye opening]," said Dusek. She raised equity financing and, over the course of two years, increased her revenue more than 3.5 fold.
Inspired by her experience, she has launched a venture fund to finance women entrepreneurs in South Africa.
Fran Dunaway wanted a cool button-up shirt like those made by Robert Graham or Ben Sherman but for a woman's body. In 2013, she launched TomboyX and a Kickstarter campaign to fund the production of the shirt. She raised more than $75,000. The company is based in Seattle. In 2014, TomboyX introduced its first boxer brief for women. Based on the overwhelming demand for the product, TomboyX pivoted to focus on gender-neutral underwear.
As a first-time entrepreneur, Dunaway didn't have a strong network. Being part of Winning Women in 2017 helped her build one. It was a conduit for meeting investors as well as media. When she met investors, Dunaway was prepared. She knew how to value her company, structure the deal, and assess the tax implications.
How will you get the leadership training you need to break the glass ceiling?
