
# 'Housefull 4' Box office collection day 11 : Akshay Kumar starrer mints excellent business on the second Monday

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:24:18+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/housefull-4-akshay-kumar-starrer-mints-excellent-business-on-the-second-monday/articleshow/71916085.cms)

The Diwali release comedy entertainer 'Housefull 4' is receiving great response from the audiences from the box office. The multi-starrer film is really running strong at the theatres and is earning good business.
According to the latest report of BoxOfficeIndia.com, the film saw a super strong second Monday with collections of Rs. 5.50-5.75 crore nett which is an excellent number for the second Monday behind only Shahid Kapoor starre 'Kabir Singh' and Vicky Kaushal starrer 'Uri - The Surgical Strike' for 2019. The Akshay Kumar starrer has easily beaten the second Monday numbers of the 'War' and 'Mission Mangal'.
Overall the film has approximately garnered up to Rs. 173 crore nett in eleven days and it will easily surpass the business of 'Mission Mangal'. 'Housefull 4' has held very well on Monday despite the growth not coming over the weekend. As Gujarat / Saurashtra did flat business over the three days of the weekend held back growth, however, on Monday the circuit dropped 50% only from Sunday when normally its a 65-70% drop. The film is now heading for a Rs.50 crore nett second week and if it continues to hold in this way, the film will surely turned out as a Superhit!
‘Housefull 4’ features an ensemble cast of Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon, Riteish Deshmukh, Kriti Kharbanda, Bobby Deol and Pooja Hegde. Directed by Farhad Samji, the film clashed at the box office with Rajkummar Rao's 'Made in China' and Taapsee Pannu-Bhumi Pednekar's 'Saand Ki Aankh'.
