
# Kate Middleton Reportedly Secretly Partied With School Parents at a Pub

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:08:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29682779/kate-middleton-pub-school-parents-party-details/?utm_source=twitter&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM)

When Kate Middleton is off-duty, the Duchess of Cambridge manages to keep things pretty normal—taking her kids Halloween shopping at a grocery store, walking in the park, or going to a party—but with a royal twist, usually in the form of a protection officer accompanying her.
The Mail on Sunday reported about Kate's latest excursion, which required slightly more than a security guard to pull off: Her secret trip to a Chelsea pub last month for a meet and greet party with parents from Prince George and Princess Charlotte's school, Thomas's Battersea.
Kate went to London's the Hollywood Arms then and used a secret entrance to get in and out of the pub without anyone photographing or filming her arrival and departure. That entrance was originally built for her brother-in-law Prince Harry when he was younger and single, sources told the outlet, back when the pub was more of a socialite hot spot where wild parties were thrown weekly. The venue is more mellow now since ownership changed in 2015.
The Mail reported that Kate had one protection officer with her and was said to "enjoyed a few drinks" while chatting with the other parents. She successfully slipped out undetected, and the story didn't reach the press until weeks later. Way to go, Kate.
The Duchess of Cambridge was photographed on her first school run of the year with Princess Charlotte, Prince George, and her husband Prince William last month. But that was only because it was Charlotte's first day at Thomas's Battersea ever, and Kensington Palace gladly shared photos of the four-year-old's big milestone.
