
# Chiefs’ Challengers Applauded For ‘Massive’ Effort

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:06:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/telkom-knockout/kaizer-chiefs-have-a-match-with-maritzburg-united-to-look-forward-to-in-tko/666682)

It set up a glamour tie with Kaizer Chiefs in the Telkom Knockout, and Maritzburg United have been praised for their ‘massive’ effort in their quarter-final at the weekend.

        Read: Big Debate - Should Lorch Have Seen Red v Chiefs?
      
The Team of Choice had to come back from behind against Highlands Park after going 1-0 down in their clash at Harry Gwala Stadium on Friday evening, with the home side eventually coming out on top after another penalty shootout.
Eric Tinkler’s side have now won five consecutive top-flight games - albeit two were via shootouts - for the first time in a decade (the last time was March 2009), and have won almost as many games this season (five) as they did in their entire 2018/19 season before the play-offs (seven).
Now they find themselves two games away from the first major trophy in their history and fighting for a place in the Absa Premiership’s top eight, and their coach is delighted with what he’s seeing.
Speaking to Maritzburg’s official website after the TKO win, Tinkler said, “We knew it was going to be an extremely tough game, but I’m very proud of the boys. The effort they put in was really, really massive… We said they’re a very hard-working team, probably the hardest working team in the league are Highlands Park, very, very aggressive.
“I thought in the first half we were very good. I thought the Highlands goal came against the run of play. We created a few chances but our final pass let us down, our decision making in the final third was not there.
“We spoke about improving that at half-time, and the boys responded well. We came back - yeah it was an own goal - but you’ve got to put the ball in in order for that to happen and we did that.
“We kept knocking on the door and I thought we seemed to want it a bit more than them. Even in the second half and in extra time, the ascendancy was always with us.”
He also added that he felt the game had the right winner, saying, “Overall, fantastic, ultimately I think we deserved to go through. We were missing some of the fine details (in terms of the attacking). But we defended very well, we knew they were going to play the long ball, set-pieces, that came.”

        Read: Chiefs In Talks With Potential New Signing!
      
Next up for Maritzburg is a clash with Orlando Pirates in the Absa Premiership, but the whole team will undoubtedly have one eye on the end of the month for the bumper encounter with Amakhosi on November 22 or 23.  

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
