
# Red Dead Redemption 2 PC mods add The Joker, among others

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:01:55+00:00**

Author: **Nicole Carpenter**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/5/20949510/red-dead-redemption-mod-pc-release-nov-11-joker-shaders-mods)

When Red Dead Redemption 2 was released on PC this morning, the game’s modding community immediately got to work. In fact, modders have been at work since before Red Dead Redemption 2’s launch — before the game’s release, there was already a mod uploaded to Nexus Mods.
The first mod uploaded is a re-skin of Red Dead Redemption 2 main character Arthur Morgan, turning the cowboy into a clown. The Joker, specifically. With this mod, created by RedDeadModders, Arthur Morgan wears Joker-inspired makeup. Smile! RedDeadModders is also working on a bunch of other mods, too: Arthur as the Terminator, an undead horse, and a knife-gun weapon, among others.
Another modder also uploaded a “photorealistic reshade” for Red Dead Redemption 2, giving players enhanced colors and shadows.
It’s not surprising how quickly the modding community’s taken to Red Dead Redemption 2. Grand Theft Auto 5 — also by Rockstar Games — has one of the most vibrant modding communities online.
People have been anticipating Red Dead Redemption 2’s release on PC since the game’s original launch. When the game was confirmed for PC, a group of modders immediately got to work dreaming up new stuff: the creators of FiveM, a popular Grand Theft Auto 5 mod that lets people play on custom servers, announced it was working on a similar framework for Red Dead Redemption 2. However, a release isn’t confirmed: Modders will only be able to do so if Rockstar allows for Red Dead Online mod support, and the developer hasn’t confirmed either way.
