
# Pirates Star’s Worst PSL Season Ever…    

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:23:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/orlando-pirates-star-heading-for-worst-ever-psl-season/666550)

An Orlando Pirates player is on his way to having the worst season ever in the Absa Premiership due to lack of game time. 
Tebogo Tlolane, who is in his first season with the Buccaneers, is yet to start a match for the team, having only made one substitute appearance so far in the campaign. 

        Read: 
        
          In Hot Water, Makola Charged 
        
      
However, with Pirates coach Rhulani Mokwena using a rotation policy in selecting matchday squads for the different matches, Tlolane can be hopeful that he will get his chance to play at some point under the club’s coach.  
And why is Tlolane heading for his worst season?    
During his time with Chippa United last season, the left-back amassed 29 appearances – all starts – from the first match up to the 29th.  
The only match he missed was the last one of the season against Kaizer Chiefs, only because he was suspended due to having picked four yellow cards. 

        Read: Why Mashaba May Not Face Downs... Again 
      
Messi, as Tlolane is known in football circles, made a total of 34 appearances (all starts) in all competitions for the Port Elizabeth side, which was the highest number for the club by a single player.
However, last season was the player’s first in Mzansi’s topflight, having joined the Chilli Boys from Jomo Cosmos in the National First Division.      
At only 24 years of age, Tlolane will know that his time to shine again will come again, and can only wait for it for now.   
