
# Rutherglen funeral home with kind gesture for those serving in the Armed Forces

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:37:12+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Geddes, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jonathan-geddes/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/rutherglen-funeral-home-kind-gesture-20817913)

Colleagues at Co-op Funeralcare in Rutherglen are encouraging locals to pay homage to those in the Armed Forces with a memorial tree, ahead of Remembrance Day on November 10.
The funeral home has created a memorial tree to encourage people to write messages to loved ones who may have served, or who are serving, in the Armed Forces and place it on the tree.
The Rutherglen funeral home has also decorated its window in a poppy-inspired red theme, paying tribute to the Armed Forces.
Visitors will be invited to make a donation to Poppy Scotland too, best known for its iconic Poppy Scotland Appeal, which raises on average £2 million a year.
The poppy is a powerful symbol, worn to commemorate the sacrifices of the Armed Forces and to show support to those still serving today and their loved ones.
The Poppy Scotland Appeal goes directly to provide through-life care to anyone currently serving in the Armed Forces or who has previously served, and their families.
Hugh Wright, Funeral Director at Co-op Funeralcare in Rutherglen, said: “We know how close Remembrance Day is to the hearts of many of within the community, which is why we were keen to provide a dedicated space for people to remember their loved ones who served.
“All of us here at Co-op Funeralcare are always happy to talk about any memories or experiences. However, we understand talking about this may be difficult so we want to invite all to pop in and write a memory for the tree or simply show your respect by donating £1 to the Poppy Appeal”.
Online donations can also be made here or for more information, call Co-op Funeralcare home in Rutherglen on 0141 647 3278.
