
# Egretia Successfully Co-Hosted U.S.-China Blockchain Gaming Investment Summit during SFBW 2019

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:36:21+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CCN.com](https://www.ccn.com/egretia-successfully-co-hosted-u-s-china-blockchain-gaming-investment-summit-during-sfbw-2019/)

SAN FRANCISCO, November 6, 2019 -The annual San Francisco Blockchain Week (SFBW), one of the world’s leading events gathering blockchain and cryptocurrency worlds, has been held for the week of October 28. 
On November 1, 2019, the top blockchain consulting firm Spark Blockchain partnered with Egretia and its North American Community (ENAC), successfully hosted 2019 U.S.- China Blockchain Gaming Investment Summit in San Francisco. Egretia is the first in the world to integrate its HTML5 workflow which was developed for 4 years into the blockchain interface layer, and creates a larger network for all HTML5 games. The summit gathered together 200+ industrial leaders, experts, developers, founders and investors in blockchain and gaming industries to create new opportunities in gaming with blockchain technology. 
Miko Matsumura, General Partner of Gumi Cryptos, gave a keynote speech of  “How to make an investment in gaming industry”. He pointed out that “the key secret to living your life is to understand what is a game and what is not a game”. Zhen Cao, Partner of JLAB introduced the topic of The U.S. & China gaming industry opportunity in 2020 to the audience. She mentioned that critical mass will be the key factor to success.
Filled with enthusiasm, the representative from Egretia introduced the 2019 Egretia Global DApp Contest to the attendances. He announced that “the winning teams will receive a total of $300K award and long-term collaborations, including support for project development, incubation, and potential investment.” The 2019 Egretia Global DApp Contest has launched since October 1, 2019. All participants need to submit their business plans or DApps by midnight of November 30, 2019 EST. As the world’s first HTML5 blockchain game, Egretia encourages developers to combine this programming language with their promising projects.
After keynote speeches, four interesting panel topics were tackled, including How to Build Business Model and Boost Revenue, Blockchain Game Assets & NFT Opportunity, New Opportunity in Gaming Market and Innovation for gaming industry. The first panel was delivered by Mo Dong, Co-Founder of Celer Network; Simon Zhu, CEO at BitMovio; Illia Polosukhin, Co-Founder of NEAR and Haotian Li, Listing Director of OKEx. They gave their thoughts on “how to build a business model and boost revenue”. They do believe that the users, resources and data are important for a business and encourage the audience to keep going on their own business. 
Joe Zhou, CEO of FirstBlood; Jesse Liu, Marketing Director of Ontology; Victor Fang, Founder & CEO of AnChain.ai and Andrea McGinty, COO of BLOCKADE GAME, presented in a panel with the topic of “Blockchain Game Assets & NFT Opportunity”. In general, the speakers believe that NFT will be useful in the blockchain gaming industry.
In addition, Xiahong Lin, Partner of Continue Capital; Yubo Ruan, Founding Partner of 8 Decimal; Qi Zhou, CEO of QuarkChain; Jay Chen, Managing Director of Krypital Group, discussed around the panel topic “New Opportunity in Gaming Market”. In general, they hold an optimistic opinion on the long-term interest of gaming market. Last but not least, Yunpeng Ding, BD Director of GXChain; Devin Finzer, Co-Founder at OpenSea; Tong Shen, CEO of Block Kingdom and Garrett Kinsman, Co-Founder of Nodle, talked about innovation for gaming industry. They believe that the blockchain game is somehow different from traditional game.
2019 U.S.- China Blockchain Gaming Investment Summit was well received by the attendees. It was a great opportunity to discuss potential cooperation opportunities with experienced blockchain gaming leaders and experts. The event was also live-streamed on twitter and attracted hundreds of viewers.

        
          This is a paid-for submitted press release. CCN does not endorse, nor is responsible for any material included below and isn’t responsible for any damages or losses connected with any products or services mentioned in the press release. CCN urges readers to conduct their own research with due diligence into the company, product or service mentioned in the press release.
        
      
