
# Almost half of California Republicans may flee state over high taxes and liberal policies

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:52:41+00:00**

Author: **Tim Pearce**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/almost-half-of-california-republicans-may-flee-state-over-high-taxes-and-liberal-policies)

Over half of registered voters in California have seriously considered leaving the state largely because of its liberal policies and high taxes.
The U.C. Berkeley Institute of Governmental Studies polled registered voters across the Golden State on how seriously they have considered joining the exodus to new states, according to the Los Angeles Times. The poll found that over half of registered voters have seriously considered moving, and that right-wing voters are three times more likely to consider moving than left-wing voters.
The poll found 40% of Republican and conservative voters have considered relocating to redder states, citing solid Democratic control of the government and the state's high taxes. Comparatively, 14% of Democratic and liberal voters have seriously considered moving.
"We're moving to redder pastures," said 71-year-old Judy Stark as she and her husband left California for a new home near Dallas, Texas. "We're getting with people who believe in the same political agenda that we do: America first, Americans first, law and order."
Residents have flooded out of California in recent years as housing costs and general expenses continue to grow for people living in the state. From 2007 to 2016, 1 million residents left California destined for states such as Texas and Idaho, according to a 2018 state Legislative Analyst’s Office report on domestic migration in and out of the state.
Recently, rolling blackouts and brownouts have plagued California homeowners as PG&E, the state's largest utility, strategically cuts power to customers to help prevent wildfires.
