
# Jeff Goldblum confirms when Jurassic World 3 begins filming Laura Dern, Sam Neill returns

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:42:17+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/film/jeff-goldblum-confirms-jurassic-world-20789718)

Jurassic World 3 star Jeff Goldblum has confirmed when the much-anticipated sequel will begin filming.
The upcoming follow-up to Jurassic World : Fallen Kingdom has already been confirmed to see Goldblum reprise his iconic role as Dr Ian Malcolm opposite Sam Neill and Laura Dern as Dr Alan Grant and Dr Ellie Sattler, respectively.
Appearing on Chris Evans' Virgin Radio Show today (November 1), Jeff Goldblum discussed scary films with the radio and let slip when the film begins filming and where.
Goldblum said: "Well, I guess those dinosaur movies are kind of scary. And we're gonna do another one of those around these parts come this summer."
So he'll be filming in the UK and he also added who with.
 
He added: "[I'll] be here shooting with Laura Dern and Sam O'Neill and Chris Pratt and Bryce Dallas Howard . Colin Trevorrow as the great director is going to be writing and directing it. And I can't wait."
The film will likely continue from the cliffhanger ending of Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom, which saw dinosaurs escape into the streets of California after being held in a facility by a nefarious corperation.
But how will the original cast of Jurassic Park factor into the story of Chris Pratt and Bryce Dallas Howard's characters, Owen and Claire?
Here's hoping we have more details soon!

        Jurassic World 3 is released in cinemas on June 11, 2021.
      

        
          Are you excited to see the return of classic Jurassic Park characters in Jurassic World 3? Let us know in the comments below.
        
      
