
# Kylie Jenner and Drake 'romance denied' after speaking about his favourite Kardashian

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:03:19+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kylie-jenner-drake-romance-denied-20829605)

There has been a buzz surrounding a potential romance between Kylie Jenner and Drake but cold water has been poured on that rumour.
While many want to see the 22-year-old billionaire make-up mogul hook up with Drake, it would seem that he used to carry a torch for another member of the Kardashian family.
Tongues have been wagging about Kylie and Drake ever since she spent most of his 33rd birthday party at his side.
There have been reports that they have been 'romantically dating' since but these have been denied by those close to the pair.
Among the speculation, there has been a reminder that Drake is a long-term friend of the family and that any suggestion of him dating Kylie might not sit right with them.
Drake performed at Kylie's 16th birthday party and after the event, he was far more praiseworthy of momager Kris Jenner than he was of her daughter.
In an interview with E! News in the days after the event, Drake revealed who is his favourite Kardashian: "Kylie’s just a friend. I really like Kylie a lot, I like Kendall, everybody is really nice - Khloe is really nice.
"Obviously the queen of it all is Kris and she’s my favourite. She’s the boss."
While Keeping Up With The Kardashians star Kylie has done a lot of growing up since her first meeting with Drake, it would seem that them coupling up now is looking wide of the mark.
Reports in the US media have suggested that Kris has declined to deny that the pair are dating but it is being viewed that this may be to keep the frenzy about Drake and Kylie being together all stoked up.
Kylie is single and apparently ready to mingle after her relationship with Travis Scott, the father of her daughter Stormi Webster, came to an end.
It has been reported that she and Drake often mix in the same circles, so there are plenty of possibilities for the pair to meet up but it seems that the chances of them becoming an item is still looking a distant possibility rather than a sure-fire romance.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
