
# The company that owns TikTok created a smartphone for China

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:17:04+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/company-owns-tiktok-launches-smartphone?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Smartisan
      
Video sharing service, and enigma to older techies, TikTok is going to be featured on a new smartphone launched by its parent company, ByteDance. After an acquihire of some patents and talent from the Smartisan phone brand, ByteDance will be launching the Smartisan Jianguo Pro 3 in China for ¥2899.
The phone had apparently been in development before the deal was made with ByteDance, and the latter company's involvement led to including a shortcut for TikTok users to swipe up from the lock screen to quickly jump into TikTok, or rather Douyin, which is the version of TikTok that ByteDance offers in China. There doesn't seem to be any more meddling from the TikTok folks in this device beyond that simple shortcut.

        Source: Smartisan
      
The phone features a litany of high-end specs, including the latest Qualcomm Snapdragon 855+ processor, a 4,000 mAh battery, and five cameras. Yes, five cameras. There are four on the back, including a primary 48MP sensor, an ultra-wide 13MP sensor, a long-range 8MP telephoto, and a 5MP shooter for macro. For selfies you get a big 20MP camera, so clearly this phone knows its photo-loving audience.
The device also features an in-display fingerprint reader. ByteDance has already said it will not be bringing its new smartphone to the U.S., but the phone is available now in China.
Video sharing for teens
A fun and creative app that lets you make your own sketches set to sound bites, music, and different effects. The TikTok app has "privacy and safety" settings to ensure a safe experience. Parents are encouraged to set their kid's profile to private, enable digital well being, and read and follow the apps community guidelines.

        That's not good Your Google Home or Amazon Echo can be hacked using laser pointers Researchers have found that it is possible to hack smart speakers, phones, tablets, and video chat devices such as Facebook Portal with the help of “light commands.”
      

        Facebook New Face Facebook's new corporate logo is as boring as they come Facebook has announced a new corporate logo design, as well as a corporate initiative to include the new logo on all of its major app and service properties.
      

        Speaker optional Nest Wifi now available, here are your buying options Google’s second-generation wireless home router goes by a new name, Nest Wifi, and its range extender now features a built-in Google Assistant speaker. The single and two-pack options are now available, but which is best for you?
      

        Buyer's guide These are the best rugged Android phones Living the rough and tumble life? Get yourself a smartphone that can handle everything you throw at it — or throw your phone at.
      
