
# Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp admits regret at Man City 'tactical fouls' comment

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:13:26+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-boss-jurgen-klopp-admits-20835059)

Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp attempted to defuse a potential war of words with Manchester City , admitting that he shouldn't have accused Pep Guardiola's side of "tactical fouls".
Klopp's Reds and Guardiola's reigning champions go head-to-head in a mouthwatering top-of-the-table clash at Anfield on Sunday.
Ahead of the showdown, Guardiola fanned the flames last weekend with comments that labelled Liverpool striker Sadio Mane as a diver.
Klopp responded by referencing tactical fouling, a ploy City have been accused of in the past.
And now, after Guardiola admitted he was wrong to suggest Mane regularly goes down too easily, Klopp held his hands up too.
"If I could do it again, I wouldn’t say it again, [the tactical fouls comments]," Klopp told Sky Sports.
"It’s just not necessary, these kind of things. I know there is a lot of respect there.
"I feel that’s how it should be. I feel all the rest will be decided on the pitch."
Earlier this week, Guardiola reneged on his original remarks on Mane, admitting he was wrong with his remarks.
Klopp accepts the Spaniard's explanation and hailed the Etihad chief as the best manager in the world.
"He explained it well, he said he discussed it at home," he added.
"I’m completely fine with that. I couldn’t have more respect for Pep Guardiola. I've known him for so long. It’s a big thing to be his contender.
"For me, he is the best manager in the world. We have the chance to win against his team, which is enough for me. We’ve had a few good results against them.
"On my side, there is nothing but respect for him. I said what I said. Okay, you cannot leave it completely without a comment, but actually, I’m not interested.
"These kind of things…I think there’s enough to write about before the game, purely football."
