
# Vietnamese migrants in forest camp willing to risk death to reach UK in lorry

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:54:32+00:00**

Author: **Patrick Hill, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/vietnamese-migrants-forest-camp-willing-20797372)

Huddled around a campfire deep in a French forest, a group of freezing Vietnamese teens in flip-flops are desperate.
They have travelled thousands of miles to try to get into Britain, lured by the fantasy of highly paid jobs.
And despite the death of 39 countrymen and women, found in a refrigerated lorry in Essex, they say they have no choice but to risk the journey.
The teenagers are among hundreds of illegal migrants in secret makeshift camps across northern France.
This one, nicknamed Little Vietnam, is next to a slag heap on the edge of Béthune, 50 miles from Calais.
The refugees have no toilets or running water and their only help comes from a few kind-hearted locals who have given clothes, tents, food, wood and basic cooking utensils.
Their poverty-stricken families are among thousands in Vietnam who have risked all to borrow up to £20,000 to pay predatory trafficking gangs with criminal links in Asia and Europe.
Traffickers tell them they will earn £4,000-a-month in the UK, working in nail bars, restaurants and labouring.
The average wage in Vietnam is equal to about £115 a month.
The migrants are also told Britain is the best place because police are less strict than in other parts of Europe and will not return them to Vietnam if they are caught working illegally.
The reality is far less attractive, many end up running illegal cannabis farms, are forced into prostitution and have to pay back the bulk of their wages to their gangmasters.
Among those taken in by the ­traffickers’ promises is Duc Vo Minh, 18, whose journey from his poor home started on June 18.
Just days before the 39 Vietnamese ­migrants were found dead in the lorry, Duc was caught hiding among boxes in a container, arrested but released by police 24 hours later.
He realises he could also lose his life but believes he must take the risk again for the sake of his family 6,000 miles away.
Duc said: “I am scared I could die in a container like the others, but I have no other option than to try to get to the UK.
“My family is very poor. It has been a bad year for the farm. They decided if I went overseas I’d be able to earn more money for us.
“They got a £20,000 bank loan by handing the farm’s deeds to the bank and used the money to pay the traffickers. I must find the way to get there and work to pay it back.
“Otherwise they will lose our farm because they won’t be able to repay the bank loan. I hope to find work in the UK in a nail bar or as a chef.”
Duc, the youngest of five siblings and from one of Vietnam’s poorest provinces, Ha Tinh, 200 miles south of the capital Hanoi, speaks little English and no French.
He arrived at the camp three months ago, brought from Paris in a car by two masked traffickers.
He had taken a bus from his village to Hanoi airport where two Vietnamese men gave him a passport and visa then put him on a plane with four others to Moscow.
At the Russian capital two other Vietnamese men took them to a house and took their ­passports and phones.
Duc said: “A couple of hours later two white men picked us up. They used Google Translate to tell us to lay down in the back so we couldn’t be seen, not to speak to each other or try and look out of the blacked out windows.”
The migrants were driven thousands of miles through Ukraine, Poland and Germany hidden in a ­people carrier.
He said: “They were very big and strong. They said if we didn’t do everything they said they would beat us.
“We stayed hidden in the forest in the day and mostly travelled at night. We didn’t have blankets or tents and survived on bread, cheese and water bought from gas stations.”
Another of the camp’s residents Hung Van Hoang, an orphan aged 16, had been working as a £3-a-day farmer in Vietnam’s Ha Giang province.
He also dreams of riches in Britain and said: “I know it is dangerous but I have ­nothing to lose.
“We just keep on going, we don’t have time to think about what we’ve been through. I’m just trying to survive and I’ve met others during the journey who are even younger than me – aged 13 and 14.
"I don’t know much about the UK but I’ve been told I can get work and the money is much bigger there than in Vietnam.
“I don’t have any education but I work hard. I’m willing to do any work – washing dishes, housework, heavy labour, whatever I can find.
“I’m now waiting for the people to come and take us to England. They will choose the strongest to go and work for them.”
Next to him, Loc Le Van, 17, who left Quang Binh province in May, added: “We want to leave here because the police are more strict in France and it is more difficult to get jobs, but in the UK you can work and we have been told the police don’t send you back to Vietnam.”
According to the UK’s National Crime Agency, in 2018 there were more than 700 suspected cases of modern slavery and human ­trafficking of Vietnamese migrants to Britain, the second highest behind Albania.
Last November, the British and Vietnamese governments signed a memorandum of understanding, vowing to share more intelligence and work together to support victims.
The agreement came just months after cops shut a similar holding camp in northern France, known as Vietnam City. Its closure has led to the creation of smaller camps like Little Vietnam.
Independent trafficking expert Mimi Vu, based in Ho Chi Minh City, said: “Vietnam’s poorer provinces have sent workers overseas since the 80s and 90s when it was exporting labour to the former Soviet bloc countries.
“The routes and services were established. You grow up knowing that’s what you’re going to do and it’s the best way to provide for your family.”
Around 43,000 Vietnamese legally entered Russia as tourists in 2017, many never returned home but headed to Eastern Europe then Britain.
Mimi said: “The traffickers choose Russia because it’s easy for them to get visas there, so when the migrants leave Vietnam they leave legally, albeit ­sometimes with false passports.
"But now, because borders are tightening, traffickers are ­getting much more creative. They are also now sending people via places such as Haiti and Panama, which are also visa-free.”
The migrants are told once they reach a European airport they must destroy their passport, flag down an officer and claim they’re minors.
Mimi said: “They’re then put into a holding cell and the aim then is to try and get yourself released from the airport into care.
“Once they’re placed in a home they just take off and get picked up by the smuggling network and usually taken to the 13th District in Paris, which is the usual meeting place, before going straight to camps like Béthune.”
Mimi said: “The migrants just want to support their families and it’s ­unfortunate they get tricked and taken advantage of over and over again.”
Philippa Southwell, of London-based Birds Solicitors, specialises in representing Vietnamese migrants trafficked to the UK and forced into modern slavery.
She said: “They are promised work when they get here but are then exploited.
“They think they are coming to restaurant work or sometimes on building sites, packing, and other manual labour jobs.
“But the main reason Viet namese are trafficked here is for forced cannabis production.
“It’s happening all over the UK every day.
“I’ve got around 70 cases at the moment of Vietnamese victims forced into criminality. I’m getting referrals every week.
"I’ve done hundreds of very similar cases. There are Vietnamese criminals at the start of the journey – interconnected with criminals in other parts of Europe and the UK.
“It’s a vast multi-criminal ­networks working together.”
She said: “They are adapting how they are operating – cannabis factories are now in rural areas because they’re less likely to be detected.
“I’ve seen it in pretty much every county, but Northampton, Suffolk and Wales are areas particularly where we are seeing them operating.
“The gangs deal in quite serious violence and I have had clients who have been beaten and cut with machetes. There’s also sexual control and threats to family back in Vietnam.”
Back in Little Vietnam the young men shelter under a canopy to face another hard night. Far worse may yet still be ahead of them.
Paperwork for the container in which 39 people were found dead had no details of its origin or final destination when it passed through a Belgian port.
A manifest with the refrigerated container when it arrived at Zeebrugge said it was carrying biscuits.
But sections recording where the alleged cargo was picked up and bound for were left blank, said the Belgian prosecutor’s office.
Last night a border security expert said the lack of information about the alleged load, coupled with the type of haulier involved, should have been a “red flag” making it a likely candidate for inspection at Zeebrugge.
There is no customs requirement for paperwork showing origins and destinations for loads travelling between EU countries, but most ferry companies require details from completed manifests before boarding.
All the 39 migrants, 31 men and eight women found in the lorry in Grays, Essex, are believed to be Vietnamese although none have been formally identified.
Two men from Northern Ireland, driver Maurice Robinson, 25, and Eamonn Harrison, 22, have been charged over the deaths.
Police have asked two other men from Northern Ireland, brothers Christopher and Ronan Hughes, to hand themselves in.
Three others arrested in connection with the incident – two men aged 38 and 46 and a woman, 48 – have been released on bail.
In Vietnam, police have reportedly arrested two people over trafficking.
