
# Chris Duncan bags Bellator deal as Scots fighter vows to 'knock out whoever they put in front of me'

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:55:00+00:00**

Author: **Tom Heffernan**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/chris-duncan-bags-bellator-deal-20830772)

Highly rated Scottish MMA prospect Chris Duncan has signed a multi-fight deal with Bellator, joining MXP team mate Robert Whiteford and the Scottish Hit Squad’s Chris Bungard on the MMA giant’s roster.
Duncan, 26, is the current Ultimate Fight League lightweight champion and boasts a perfect professional record of five wins - all ending by stoppage – which includes a first round KO win over UFC icon Conor McGregor’s team mate Sam Slater in Dublin earlier this year.
Record Sport can exclusively reveal that with the contract he was waiting for in the bag, the Tullibody based fighter is ready to make major waves in the Bellator lightweight division.
Duncan said: ”I’m delighted to have signed this contract and I’m looking forward to having the opportunity to get out there in front of the cameras and show everyone what I can do on the world stage.
“I got some experience of fighting for Bellator earlier this year in Dublin where I knocked out Sam Slater in the first round. Bellator got to know who I was after that fight and they will know me even better after I knock out the others they put in front of me.
“Fighting is something that is deep, deep within me. It is in my blood and I am more than ready to take advantage of this opportunity. I was telling my coach the other day that I feel I was born in the wrong era. 
"I just love being in the trenches ready for war and should probably have lived during the days of Vikings and Gladiators. I want to be a modern day Gladiator”.
Duncan hasn’t been added to any fight card just yet but expects his debut to be sooner rather than later. He said: “I think it will probably be early next year before I get to make my debut but I’m always training so if the opportunity to fight earlier than that comes up I’m ready to go.
“I’m never really out of shape and feel like I can go five rounds right the way through any training camp. I only use the last six weeks of a fight camp to sharpen up the tools and get some heavy sparring in so I will fight whoever they give me and whenever they want.
“Bellator have signed me to fight so show me a guy and I will go in there and perform. That is my job; it’s as simple as that.  If you don’t do your job you don’t get paid.
“So make no mistake, I will be the employee of the month for Bellator. Watch this space”. 
