
# Boots unveil Black Friday 2019 deals that will go live a week before the big day

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:43:41+00:00**

Author: **Chantelle Symester, https://www.facebook.com/csymester/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/shopping-deals/boots-unveil-black-friday-2019-20831404)

High street chain Boots is giving shoppers a first look at some of the bargains that will be available over Black Friday this year.
The retailer has revealed its first set of exclusive beauty deals that will be available to buy in stores and online at Boots.com from 20 November - a whole week before Black Friday officially kicks off on 29 November.
The price cuts include better than half price discounts on Soap and Glory and Sensationail sets, as well as discounts on Mark Hill hair straighteners, Spectrum make up brushes and more. Shoppers will be able to check Boots official Black Friday page to shop all the latest deals as they are released - perfect for consumers keen to make savings on those last few bits on their Christmas shopping list.
Last year the popular retailer kicked off its sale early with a number of special promotions , including giving Advantage Card shoppers who spent £50 or more an extra £10 worth of points.
Deals included items from an array of categories and popular premium makeup and beauty brands like No7, Estee Lauder and Beauty Blender.
All deals will launch online and in stores on 20 November
This bundle travel set has all the brushes you need to create a perfect make up look, and the cute case is both a practical and stylish way to house them.

        
          Buy here
        
      
The handy 2 in 1 tool heats up to 225 degrees and lets you curl or straighten hair in minutes.

        
          Buy here
        
      
Bundle includes Balancing Skin Concentrate 60ml, SPF30 Anti-oxidant Day Cream, ProVitamin Overnight Cream, Refreshing Face Wash and Blemish Clearing Rapid Rescue.

        
          Buy here
        
      
Other deals launching of the 20th November include a Sensationail Black Friday Kit for £39 (was £80, saving £41), Eylure Most Wanted Lash Collection (set of four) for £15 and a huge Make Up Obsession make up bundle for £19.50 ( was £39, saving £19.50).
All the deals can be found on Boots official Black Friday page when they launch.
These are the categories we predict will be the most popular during the event.
If you're a regular Boots shopper it's in your interest to get a reward card -  you can sign up here . Its likely you'll be able to earn bonus points during the Black Friday sale and get access to exclusive offers.
The reward card allows you to to collect points, earning four points for every £1 as you spend, which you can use to purchase items online or in-store.
 
Need more Black Friday updates? Check out all the latest news and announcements by reading our full Black Friday 2019 guide .
