
# Craig Levein deserves to have a say in who is next Hearts boss - Chris Sutton

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Sutton, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/chris-sutton/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/craig-levein-deserves-say-who-20788699)

Craig Levein will know more than anyone that his time in the Hearts dugout had to come to an end.
If he was simply wearing his director of football hat then it was a decision he would have been making if it was anyone other than him on the end of of it.
I also understand there’s no way he can continue with his all-powerful role behind the scenes.
The new Hearts manager needs to be his own man and be allowed to follow his own vision.
But that doesn’t mean Levein should be chased from the club altogether.
There’s been a bit of an outcry over the fact he’ll remain at Tynecastle in some capacity until the end of his contract at the end of the season.
What kind of input he has is not yet clear but there seems to be some people up in arms about the suggestion he might have some sort of say in appointing his successor.
I would put it another way. Why wouldn’t you want him to have a say?
Levein has a wealth of experience in football, with nearly 700 games as a manager. There is also absolutely no doubt he has the best interest of Hearts at heart.
Does anyone really think he’s going to try to shaft the club he loves? No chance. He’ll want the best man for the job and want him to be successful.
You can throw the appointment of Ian Cathro at him but he was hot at the time he got the job. Okay, it was an experiment that didn’t come off but so was Robbie Neilson. Look how that panned out.
Ann Budge is a safe pair of hands in the boardroom, she’s shown managers patience and support.
She’s also relied heavily on Levein for guidance. Who will she have if he’s not got an input? Should she just listen to the punters?
Don’t be daft. She should listen to the man who knows what it’s all about.
I have some sympathies for Levein. You can’t excuse the results in the last 12 months but his side has been crippled by injuries and the poor form has seen confidence spiral.
You have to admire him for putting his neck on the line by stepping back in to the dugout when he probably had a job for life in the boardroom.
It didn’t work out but the foundations are in place behind the scenes and it will be a plumb job for whoever comes in. Hearts might be toiling right now but the only way is up and I’d expect a clamber for the position.
Levein can give some guidance but if anyone needs a bit of advice right now it’s Hibs manager Paul Heckingbottom across the city.
I’m all for sacking managers if a club is underperforming but only if they’ve had a proper crack at the whip.
The way the game is going it won’t be long before a boss gets the bullet at half-time in a match.
Heckingbottom made a good impact when he first came in and got Hibs in to the top six. Even this poor run they are on just now might be a bit false.
Hibs haven’t won in 90 minutes since the start of the season – but strangely they are also unbeaten in their last six.
They have all been draws though, five of them from winning positions before the comeback at Livingston during the week.
There are major issues though. The recruitment was suspect in the summer though and the style of play looks wide open for me. He’s under severe pressure but he’s not helped himself in recent weeks.
Coming out an slaughtering the players in midweek saying they didn’t show commitment in the first half at Livingston was a bit of a cheek.
Those same players showed enough commitment to come back from 2-0 down in the second half – which probably saved his job. I’m sure that went down well in the dressing room.
Heckingbottom isn’t out of the woods just yet and a battering this afternoon would put him back in the firing line.
The chaos in Edinburgh is hardly ideal preparation for the capital clubs when they both have the ominous prospect of taking on an in-form Old Firm at Hampden.
But the funny thing is, both sides have had joy against Celtic and Rangers in recent times. Both are capable of pulling results out of nowhere.
The games look comfortable wins on paper but Hearts played well at Hampden in the Scottish Cup Final before going down to Celtic and were good against Rangers at Tynecastle.
Hibs also held Celtic a few week ago so know they can make like awkward for Neil Lennon’s side.
I’m not so sure these ties are as straightforward as everything suggests.
There’s pressure on Celtic to maintain this incredible run in the cup competitions – and enormous pressure on Steven Gerrard to provide some tangible success at Ibrox.
We’re in for a mouthwatering weekend.
