
# Oleksyn: Comfort wines for autumn and winter

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:01:42+00:00**

Author: **Darren Oleksyn**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/life/food/oleksyn-comfort-wines-for-autumn-and-winter)

The early autumn snow brought a quick shift in our household.
The down duvets, warm wool sweaters and hearty stews made an early entrance. A lot sooner than hoped; but that’s life in Calgary.
The transition to cooler weather brings a wine switch for me as well. Bigger, beefier wines just seem to fit the fall mood better. Bigger reds like Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, Syrah and Grenache, and full-bodied whites such as Viognier, Roussanne and Chardonnays with a bit of oak, come up from the cellar more often.
These types of wines work well with the richer foods we often enjoy in fall and winter — comfort foods. So I guess you could call these comfort wines. Pop the cork, twist the cap, and snuggle up with a full-bodied wine.
From the hot and sunny southern Rhone Valley in France, Cave de Rasteau is one of the oldest co-operative wineries in the Cotes du Rhone appellation. More than 80 growers contribute grapes to Cave de Rasteau from more than 700 hectares of vineyards.
Rasteau, a village and also a wine area, has been on the rise in the Rhone Valley, being upgraded from the more generic Cotes du Rhone to the status of Cru des Cotes du Rhone. The title is saved for regions that offer wines with special qualities.
This punchy red from a stellar vintage is a traditional Rhone blend of Grenache (70 per cent), Syrah (20 per cent) and Mourvedre. Look for soft tannins and a medium-length finish, with flavours of blackcurrant, blackberry, black licorice, strawberry and black cherry.
Price: About $20. Look for it at City Liquor, Co-op Wines Spirits Beer, Eastport Liquor Store, Highlander Wine and Spirits, Liquor Lane and Rocky Mountain Wine Spirits and Beer.
Drink: In the next few years. Try it with burgers, lamb or stir fried pork. Cork; 14 per cent alc./vol.
Housed in a former 16th century castle turned Benedictine monastery turned winery, Baron de Ley produces modern wines from one of Spain’s top regions.
Made in a modern style with plenty of oak, this Reserva from the estate Mendavia vineyard consists mainly of Tempranillo. Medium-full bodied, with integrated tannins, the flavours are highlighted by cherry, black olive, vanilla, leather, boysenberry and spice.
Price: About $24. Ace Liquor, Co-op Wines Spirits Beer, Liquor Depot, Riverfront Wine and Spirits, Rocky Mountain Wines Spirits Beer, Sobeys Liquor and Wine and Beyond at Sage Hill have all carried it.
Drink: Now. Try it with duck, eggplant Parmesan or Belgian beef stew. Cork; 13.5 per cent alc./vol.
Former Calgarians Beata and Chris Tolley have been pushing the boundaries at their small Osoyoos winery for several years, making wines from grape varieties not often found in British Columbia.
As Chris said during a recent visit to the winery: “There’s a lot of people doing great Merlot. Why would we want to out-Merlot someone when we could do something different.”
Looking at the pile of medals and awards they earned this year, other wineries might soon want to try Touriga Nacional, Tannat, Carmenere, Tempranillo and Petit Verdot as well.
Canada’s No. 2 winery and best performing small winery, according to the 2019 Wine Align National Wine Awards, Moon Curser makes traditional Okanagan wines as well, including Border Vines, a Bordeaux blend of 71 per cent Cabernet Sauvignon plus Petit Verdot, Malbec, Carmenere and Cabernet Franc. It’s dry, with lots of ripe dark fruit flavours, plus notes of violet, sage and leather.
Price: About $26. Check for it at Aspen Wine and Spirits, BK Liquor, Cloud 9 Liquor Store, Heritage Wine and Spirits, Highlander Wine and Spirits, Kensington Wine Market, Willow Park Wines & Spirits and Zyn the Wine Market.
Drink: In the next five years. A grilled steak would be a great match. Screw cap; 14.6 per cent alc./vol.
Named after the Aboriginal term for moon and stars, Pirramimma founder Alexander Campbell Johnston purchased 97 hectares in the rural South Australia region of McLaren Vale in 1892. The winery has been family run ever since.
The winery grows 12 grape varieties, including Petit Verdot. Known best as a blending grape in Bordeaux, brawny and tannic Petit Verdot is not often used on its own.
Winemaker Geoff Johnston, the grandson of the founder, became interested in the grape while visiting France. He planted some vines in 1983 as a test, and it was a huge success. Now Petit Verdot is one of their most noted wines.
Dry and balanced, with taut tannins and complementary acidity, the nose and palate feature violet notes, with leather, vanilla, black cherry, mocha, black olive and blackberry rounding out the flavours. It packs a lovely, graceful punch.
Price: About $30. It has been carried by Ace Liquor, Buzz Buddy Liquor, City Liquor, Cloud 9 Liquor Store, Co-op Wines Spirits Beer, Costco Liquor, Crescent Liquor, Crowfoot Wine and Spirits, Heritage Wine and Spirits, Highlander Wine and Spirits, Liquor Depot, Mission Wine and Liquor Merchants, New Discovery Fine Wine and Spirits, Oak and Vine, Real Canadian Liquor Store, Safeway Liquor, Silver Springs Liquor Store, Sobeys Liquor, Urban Cellars, Willow Park Wines & Spirits, Wine and Beyond at Sage Hill and Zyn the Wine Market.
Drink: In the next five years. This would be an excellent match for a rich stew made from beef or game, of roast duck. Screw cap; 14.5 per cent alc./vol.

        Contact Darren Oleksyn at dm.oleksyn@gmail.com or follow him on Twitter: @doleksyn. Looking for a specific wine mentioned here? Because wine inventories are always in flux, it’s a good idea to call the store before you go. A search on Liquorconnect.com can give you an idea of stores that have carried the wines.
      
