
# Phone call leads police to $800,000 in stolen art by an artist who believed Jesus was a space alien

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:49:37+00:00**

Author: **Xeni Jardin**

Original: [Boing Boing](https://boingboing.net/2019/11/06/phone-call-leads-police-to-80.html)

Police in Los Angeles said on Tuesday they have recovered some $800,000 worth of stolen prints by the Scottish abstract expressionist and esotericist Benjamin Creme.
The LAPD was led to this mysterious stolen art discovery by a phone call, and they ended up finding nearly 1,300 prints in a San Fernando valley home.
That caller, not identified, told LAPD the art work was found in a relative’s possessions after she died, and later the family realized the prints were listed in a database of stolen artwork.
“The family took the stuff and had it stored in their house for several years when they finally started going through it and discovered the art was stolen,” Detective Steven Franssen told the Associated Press. “They immediately packed it up and took it to the police station.”
From the AP:
Creme was born in Glasgow in 1922, and mid-career became linked to mid-century Theosophical mystics Alice Bailey, and Madame Blavatsky. He later became a New Age magazine publisher.
Creme devoted his later life to channeling a mystical teacher being. Among the teachings, if I'm following this correctly, was that Jesus Christ was basically a space alien sent to Earth in a UFO.
From rationalwiki.org:
Got it.
Caller leads LAPD to $800,000 in stolen artwork [ASSOCIATED PRESS]
