
# Report: Alleged 'Whistleblower' Was Biden Guest at State Department Banquet | Breitbart

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:45:03+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/joelpollak, Joel B. Pollak**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/07/report-so-called-whistleblower-was-biden-guest-at-state-department-banquet/)

Last week, RealClearInvestigations reported the alleged identity of the “whistleblower” as a CIA analyst who had worked with Biden, and who had interacted at the White House with a person who approached Ukraine for dirt on Trump during the 2016 elections.
The Washington Examiner reported Thursday:
Republicans want the “whistleblower” to testify; Democrats, who once demanded that he be given the chance to do so, now want to shield him from public scrutiny.
The “whistleblower” claimed the president had tried to force the Ukrainian government to dig up dirt on Biden during a phone call between Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. The White House released the rough transcript of the call, which supporters say contradicts the claims of the “whistleblower.”

        Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He earned an A.B. in Social Studies and Environmental Science and Public Policy from Harvard College, and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of 
        How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution
        , which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.
      

        Lead photo: file
      
