
# Atletico Madrid and Barcelona could be involved in another big transfer

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:14:15+00:00**

Author: **Atharva Khadilkar**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/01/atletico-madrid-eye-barcelona-superstar-potential-signing/)

Atletico Madrid boss Diego Simeone had a major revamp of his squad during the summer. Despite losing some big names over the course of the off-season, the Madrid-based giants are competing against Barcelona and Real Madrid for the league. However, even Simeone knows that his side is one or two signings away from being a realistic contender.
Simeone’s midfield has been a slightly weaker point and it has always been that way since Yannick Carrasco left for China. The manager is determined to get cover in his engine room during January and has shortlisted Ivan Rakitic from Barcelona as a potential signing. Atletico will reportedly be ready to pay 35 million euros for the Croat, Fox Sports says.
Ivan Rakitic has made it clear that he believes Barca are the best team right now to play for, but has also insisted that he will be completely okay with leaving the club in search of regular football if an offer comes calling. With de Jong and Arthur having upped their game, Rakitic has been relegated to a fringe player and is seeking a transfer in January.
Manchester City and Inter Milan, along with Juventus and AC Milan are thought to be in the hunt for Rakitic as well. Pep Guardiola likes the Croatian midfielder and would want him as David Silva’s replacement, while all of Serie A’s teams are currently in a rebuilding process to contend for the European trophies during the season.
Joining either Inter Milan or Juventus seems more realistic for Rakitic than anyone else, because the Italian giants will offer the former Sevilla man a new challenge and chance to win trophies in abundance. Meanwhile, Man City will surely look at younger options over Rakitic and AC Milan just don’t seem to be clicking. Atletico are rivals, so last in the race.
Where do you think Ivan Rakitic will be playing his game following January’s transfer window?
