
# Here’s Why Automation Hasn't Been The Focus of Autoworkers’ Negotiations With Ford And GM

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rich Blake**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/richblake1/2019/11/04/heres-why-automation-hasnt-been-the-focus-of-autoworkers-negotiations-with-ford-and-gm/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2797783497&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesTechTwitter)

Job losses connected with robots has been a bone of contention in the Presidential debates. But for autoworkers negotiating with Ford and General Motors, automation was low down on the list of issues.The battle over machines, if there ever was one, ended in the automotive industry a long time ago.
"Much of the automation happened early on in automotive, already highly automated," said United Auto Workers International Spokesman Brian Rothenberg. "Our issues are impacted more by the changing components between electric vehicles and combustible engines, et cetera, and how we are retrained and incorporated into these new jobs."
EVs require fewer parts and therefore fewer workers to make them. This reality has been the predominant issue driving the discussions at the negotiating table, according to Rothenberg.
The pros and cons and impacts of automation and other additive manufacturing are closely intertwined with the future of EV manufacturing so it’s not as if robots were left out of the conversation altogether. At a time of accelerating automation and gauntlets of anxiety-inducing workforce-impact studies, it seems noteworthy the UAW isn’t engaged in much robotic arm wrestling. Plenty of other battles were there to be picked.
Among the main reasons the UAW appears to have reached a speedy, relatively pain-free agreement with Ford: the lack of any definitive plans by Ford to close down U.S. manufacturing plants. GM’s determination to shutter the Lordstown Assembly plant in Lordstown, Ohio, by contrast, was a bone deemed worthy of contention.
In 1972, Lordstown employees rebelled, guerilla-style, against GM’s move, experimental at the time, to put a premium on automation while deemphasizing workers. That labor dispute encapsulated a pivotal crossroads for the role of humans in manufacturing, according to Quartz reporter Gwynn Guilford in a thorough December 2018 article.
The Lordstown plant couldn't be saved in this most recent work stoppage. Other smaller victories, however, were gained by the union during the longest strike on GM in 50 years.
Collective bargaining activities now shift to Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. The UAW’s reportedly close-to-being-finished Ford agreement is expected to be in line with its GM agreement ratified October 25.
That contract’s components were summarized in a recent bulletin to UAW members.
Here are the highlights: full-time temporary workers get a faster track to permanent status; part-time temporary employees get on a track to regular status, albeit a slower one; temporary workers get more paid time off; health care costs were held in place; profit-sharing caps were eliminated; bonuses were secured ($11,000 for the most senior workers and $4,500 for temporary workers); there was a new one-time company contribution to personal pension accounts; and there were wage increases, up to $32.32 (by 2023) for the senior most workers; and more vacation days.
“Job security” wins (against the backdrop of automation) are summarized on page six of the UAW bulletin.
"Your bargaining committee raised many concerns regarding the company’s plans to increase its electric and autonomous vehicle lineup and expand the use of advanced processes,” the UAW said. “They outlined how advanced manufacturing had already impacted the membership. As a result, the union won a commitment from [GM] to not only reaffirm that the introduction of new technology will not move work out of the bargaining unit, but also ensure UAW members will be able to retain the higher-skilled work associated with new technology."
The parties agreed to establish a National Committee on Advanced Technology. It’ll be made up of an equal number of union and management representatives. The committee will meet (at least quarterly) to discuss the impact of future technologies on UAW members; and “address instances where bargaining unit work has shifted out of the unit due to new manufacturing processes,” the union said.
The UAW also said that it secured assurances from GM that its membership would retain higher-skilled work created by new technology. This new national committee will be able to “begin to establish a better joint understanding of the variety of new or advanced technologies that may warrant attention as they are introduced into the UAW-GM workplaces, and also to examine whether any such migration of functions has already occurred,” GM North America Labor Relations Vice President Scott Sandefur wrote in a letter, cited by Bloomberg Law's Andrew Wallender. Note that in conveying job security points scored as a result of the strike, the UAW isn’t even using the term automation, let alone robot.
The jury is still out on whether, when it comes to mitigating new technology and “advanced processes,” the new committee can have any meaningful impact, according to Wallender's article, quoting Robert Bruno, director of the Labor Education Program at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The committee seems powerless, Bruno said.
While robots aren’t looming large in the autoworkers/automakers disputes, at least when examined through the lens of collective bargaining activities, there are myriad issues and trends tied to automation. Some of them should concern the UAW, and some could be seen as beneficial.
“When the automotive industry grows, we not only see an increase in the use of robotics but we actually see an increase in the number of human workers tasked with other responsibilities,” said the Robotics Industry Association's vice president/spokesman, Bob Doyle. The RIA’s research shows, he said, that automation in automotive spurs growth in demand for engineers, technicians, A.I. specialists and workers with trade skills to help companies deploy solutions and ensure that they are working as intended. “Robotics really are job creators, especially for those willing and able to train for these higher skilled positions,” Doyle said.
Writing in Forbes.com around the time the UAW strike on GM began in September, senior contributor Jack Kelly pointed out the U.S. automotive industry, as it has been the case since the late 1970s, is facing fierce global competition.
“Advanced robotics will make it relatively easy to replace scores of factory workers—if their demands become too onerous,” Kelly said. 
The UAW appears to have accepted that some more automation likely is in the cards while also banking on the fact that all, or most, of the humans that could possibly be replaced on the assembly line already have been.
With all due respect to scores of media and folklore concerning railroad sledge-hammerer John Henry, the man/machine labor debate is not always neatly encapsulated.
Still, for an interesting read about how robotics improved the lives of some GM workers (in China and in Michigan), there is this Reuters article from last year. For a take on how robots factored into the negotiations with striking GM janitors, click here. That dispute was settled recently too, but some workers, tasked with cleaning locked “cells” that house robots, raised concerns about safety.
An abundance of automated processes, generally, should help GM get back on track quickly relative to past stoppages. Losses pegged to the recent one will total about $3.9 billion, the company said. That’s more than analysts expected. Going forward, margin for error in car making is slim. Even a hint of recession could brutalize profitability. As it is, Ford and GM debt issuances now teeter on junk status.
“GM bonds across numerous maturity ranges are yielding more than their BBB rating suggests they should,” Eric Green, a veteran high-yield debt manager said.
Green, who helps oversee $3 billion for Philadelphia-based Penn Capital, said the market is pricing in headwinds. GM seems to be viewed as less of a credit risk than Ford whose debt trades at even higher yields.
