
# Thieves Steal £1 Million Worth Of Sex Toys From Lorry Parked In Lay-By

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Connolly**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/life/thieves-steal-1-million-worth-of-sex-toys-from-lorry-parked-in-lay-by/)


        If you were going to steal one million pounds worth of stuff, your first thought probably wouldn’t be a load of sex toys.
      
Advertisements
Jewellery, sure. Designer clothes, maybe. But sex toys? Not that I’m advocating theft or crime in any way, I’m just struggling to understand who would concoct such a plan in the first place.
But concoct they did, because police are currently searching for thieves who did exactly that – with £1 million worth of adult goods going missing from a lorry parked in a lay-by.
Advertisements
The sex toys were stolen from the vehicle as it was parked overnight on the A43 near Broughton, Northamptonshire, on September 18.
Police investigating the saucy crime believe the theft took place sometime between 1am and 6.30am, with those responsible breaking into the trailer and swiping all of its imported stock in the middle of the night.
The lorry had been travelling from Felixstowe in Suffolk to deliver its load to Rocks Off Ltd, which is based at the aptly named Satisfaction House in Kettering.
Rocks Off Ltd boasts being the ‘number one European supplier for own brand and branded products’, and stocks couple’s toys, vibrators, love eggs/balls, intimate massagers, and more.
Advertisements

        As per their website:
      
Northamptonshire Police today (November 7) launched an appeal to track down the stolen goods, with a spokesperson stating: ‘[The incident] involved a lorry travelling from Felixstowe to Kettering in order to deliver its load to Rocks Off Ltd, a business based in Cunliffe Drive.’
A police Facebook post about the incident has been widely shared, with one user suggesting the thieves were ‘already in handcuffs’. Another witty individual suggested there would be a lot of ‘frustrated’ customers after the company failed to ‘deliver their load’.
Advertisements
Witnesses or anyone with information are asked to contact police on 101 quoting incident number 19000497826. Alternatively, you can contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

        Lucy Connolly
      
A Broadcast Journalism Masters graduate who went on to achieve an NCTJ level 3 Diploma in Journalism, Lucy has done stints at ITV, BBC Inside Out and Key 103. While working as a journalist for UNILAD, Lucy has reported on breaking news stories while also writing features about mental health, cervical screening awareness, and Little Mix (who she is unapologetically obsessed with).
