
# Norman Reedus calls Death Stranding “way better” than cancelled Silent Hills

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:13:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis White**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/death-stranding-way-better-silent-hills-reedus/)


        Actor Norman Reedus has revealed his thoughts on the cancellation of Silent Hills and his return to Death Stranding.
      
With Norman Reedus’ involvement with the franchise only being revealed at the end of Kojima’s teaser demo P.T, fans of the franchise were excited. Due to the success of AMC’s The Walking Dead, Reedus was at the top of his game.
While the cancellation of Silent Hills was a huge blow, most of the notable members of its development were returning for Death Stranding. Hideo Kojima, Guillermo Del Toro and Norman Reedus were all on board.
In Reedus’ case, he’s happy about the cancellation. While initially upset about his work being dumped, the development of Death Stranding has given Reedus a new look on the project.
“Silent Hills had the backstory and people knew that game, knew what it was about and what it would look like,” Reedus said in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter. “When that went away, I was bummed, but when Hideo described what we were doing next, I completely forgot about it. I was like, thank God that didn’t work, because this is way better.”
Reedus goes on to explain that the development of the new game has also allowed him to see a new side of Kojima, one where he’s truly allowed to shine.
“I like the fact that Silent Hills didn’t happen, to be honest, because I’ve gotten such a peek into the way he works and the way he thinks, and I’m completely blown away by this guy.”
