
# Garmin Marq Commander vs. Garmin Fenix 6X Pro Solar

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Anthony Karcz**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/anthonykarcz/2019/11/06/garmin-marq-commander-vs-garmin-fenix-6x-pro-solar/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_term=Carrie/)


        
          This story was written in collaboration with 
        
        
          
            Forbes Finds
          
        
        
          . Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
        
      
Garmin has been busy unveiling a full line of fitness and lifestyle devices. While some are simply annual upgrades to existing lines, there are a few new products in the mix to keep an eye on. 
The fall line of Garmin products brings a lot of innovative technology such as hidden touchscreens, solar tech and crisp OLED screens—though, unfortunately, not all in the same device. 
Two Garmins in particular—the Fenix 6X Pro Solar and the Marq Commander—also bring something impressive in a different way: high price tags.
Are they worth the expense? And which one is better for you?
With features like a matte diamond-pattern UTC bezel, a nylon jacquard weave strap, Night Vision and Jumpmaster modes, the Garmin Marq Commander positions itself as an upscale military watch. This is in line with the other lifestyle-focused watches in the Marq line. 
In addition to all the things you’d expect a Garmin to be able to do—namely track your daily fitness, runs, swims and pretty much every other athletic activity under the sun, the Marq will also let you do things like monitor your altitude as you parachute into hostile enemy territory (at least, theoretically). 
The Jumpmaster function, paired with Stealth Mode (which allows you to use your Garmin while shutting off GPS and Wi-Fi signals) and Night Mode (which lets you use the Commander with night vision goggles) gives you access to on-device topographical maps and activity recording, while ostensibly not betraying your location. There’s even a Kill Switch that deletes the device’s memory.
Even if you’re not going to wear the Marq Commander into, say, a live-fire situation, i’s an attractive watch. The nylon strap (which you can switch out with an included rubber band to preserve it while working out) is pleasingly textured, and the titanium case is understated in a classy way. 
Behind the domed sapphire face you’ll see the same feature set as on other Marq series devices. Other than the device-specific watch faces and functions mentioned above, the Commander does all sorts of activity tracking, workout recording, stress and heart rate monitoring, and smartwatch notifications. 

        SHOP NOW
      
The 51mm case of the Fenix 6X Pro Solar is the biggest Garmin has ever made. All of that real estate is put to good use with not one, but two photovoltaic solar panels built into the watch. The passive solar charging will allow you to get anywhere from a few extra hours to an extra month of life. 
It also gives you plenty of room to see the new three-data point widgets on each screen. Now widgets will give you more information at a glance without making you scroll endlessly to find the info you’re looking for. And it gives you up to eight data points when you’re working out, extremely handy for run metrics addicts who can’t stand having to flip to a second screen. 
What I really like, and what makes the Fenix 6X Pro Solar an invaluable training companion in Florida, is that it accounts for the heat that you train in. Any workout that you do in temps over 71 degrees (which, in my case, is about 90% of them), your VO2 Max and Training Status will account for. 
The PacePro feature also makes its debut in the Fenix 6 series, and if you’re a hardcore racer, you’re going to absolutely love this. Set a course in Garmin Connect, mark your average pace and whether or not you want to do negative splits and how hard you want to run the hills. Garmin takes care of the rest, letting you know how you’re doing on your targeted pace for the current mile and nothing else. It’s the perfect modern day pace band (and will be coming to the Marq series devices as well in a future update). 
The heart rate sensor gets an upgrade as well, able to detect your heart rate even during swims, something that not even the more expensive Marq Commander can do. I’ve always been impressed with Garmin’s accuracy in this department and that persists. 
When it comes to battery life, the 6X Pro Solar is unmatched. In smartwatch mode it will last 21 days, plus an extra 3 days if you’re outside enough to charge up the solar panels that make up the face of the device. In Expedition mode (where you're using the GPS, but not much else) you can get a remarkable 56 days. And in Battery Saver mode? An incredible 120 days. 
The 6X Pro Solar continues to be an effective smartwatch as well. While you can't really interact with iOS notifications other to dismiss them, it's an effective tool for keeping an eye on what's happening without having to pull your phone out of your pocket. You can also pay for things wirelessly using Garmin Pay and download music from Spotify.

        SHOP NOW
      
This is a hard call. There’s no denying that the Marq Commander is an impressive looking watch. But at nearly $2,000, it had better be. The Fenix 6X Pro Solar looks like, well, every other Fenix.
Comparing the two devices does reveal the one issue with the Marq line. As impressive as their material design is, they’re built on a specific generation of hardware. The Fenix 6X Pro Solar is nearly all of Garmin’s latest tech in one package, for “just” $999. Especially when it has features the Marq Commander doesn’t (even if the virtual features are coming to the Marq series eventually), is the price difference between the two justifiable? 
If you’re looking for a lifestyle watch to live out those dreams of being a trained operative on a secret mission, the Marq Commander is what you need. But if you want a watch that’s going to last long after everything else has conked out, will track you anywhere, doing practically anything and giving you access to smartwatch functions, the Fenix Pro 6X Solar is my choice. 
