
# The First Look At ‘Diablo 4’ Raises A Few Red Flags

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/02/the-first-look-at-diablo-4-raises-a-few-red-flags/)

Look, don’t get me wrong, I am extremely excited for the prospect of Diablo 4. Diablo 2-3 represent several thousand hours of gameplay for me, and the series is easily my most-played of all time. Yes, even more than Destiny. So I was very thrilled to see the game finally debut at BlizzCon seven years after the last game.And yet the more I saw footage from it, and the more I heard about specific aspects of it, certain things kept pricking in the back of my mind. A few red warning flags went up that could be nothing, but I wanted to at least discuss them here, so you can tell me I’m crazy and to chill out, or that you might have similar concerns.

        1. The Gameplay Trailer is Kind of Rough
      
The nine minute cinematic debut trailer for Diablo 4 is absolutely sick and I would expect nothing less from Blizzard. But when we saw the actual gameplay of Diablo 3 in a shorter, three minute spot, I don’t know, something just feels off to me about it.
It looks more like Diablo 2, less arcade-y and more…grounded. I’m not sure I…like that? Everything just looked a little clunky onscreen. Granted, the game is still so early in production there’s not even a release window for it, and it will be polished in time. But something between the art design and the combat just didn’t really land for me in this early preview, and I’m wondering if I’m alone. Naturally, I’d want to get my hands on it to see how it feels, and since I’m not at BlizzCon I can’t, but yeah, something didn’t quite fit with this first footage here.

        2. Diablo 4 is a Shared World with PvP
      
While some areas of Diablo 4 are instanced, there are going to be larger areas where you can run into other players, where you could potentially team up with them, or fight against them. I do not think that this is a Dark Zone type thing where players are going to gank you and steal your loot, as the PvP is being described as “consensual” (ew), but I don’t know if it’s wise to focus on PvP in any aspect, as that has never been Diablo’s forte, and integrating PvP into primarily PvE games is a recipe for unbalance or nerfs to suit both modes.
I also am unsure how I feel about shared world areas in a series that I have enjoyed solo farming for more than a decade now. I am wondering if it is optional to have these instances with other players, or if it’s going to be like Destiny where you literally cannot load into patrol zones by yourself.

        3. There’s Less Teleporting and More Focus on Traversal
      
You can now ride mounts in Diablo 4, and with this big, giant open world you will be travelling less by going from teleporter to teleporter, and more by riding your mount around. I am wondering how that will affect speed farming runs and simply getting from point A to point B is not a terribly interesting part of the game, and I wonder if the entire idea of mounts was created just so…Diablo can sell mounts. Which leads me to…

        4. Diablo 4 has Cosmetic Microtransactions
      
This was just confirmed on stream yesterday. It’s not clear exactly what Diablo 4 will be selling, but “cosmetic microtransactions” is enough to raise eyebrows in any loot-based game, just ask Destiny, which is constantly at war with its playerbase over the same issue. Diablo 3 boasted a robust transmorg system so you could look however you wanted and that didn’t cost anything. But what if Diablo 4 replaces that with paid “ornaments” or something? That…would not be great. Diablo 3 eventually started experimenting with selling various items but nothing really stuck. It’s possible these microtransactions could be fine and nothing, or they might be a direct step down from past games. We’ll see.

        5. The Guy Who Made Diablo 3 Great is Gone
      
That would be Josh Mosqueira, who is largely credited with being the driving force behind turning Diablo 3 around in the Reaper of Souls, Loot 2.0 era. Sure, it was a team effort, but it was under his leadership, and like so many others, he has since left Blizzard. And if you want to go further back, the director of Diablo 1 and 2, David Brevik, hasn’t been with Blizzard since 2003. Diablo 4’s director is Luis Barriga, who comes over from World of Warcraft and while he could be perfectly great, it does feel important that the older directors are nowhere to be found for this new installment.

        6. Gear is Being Designed to be Less Powerful Than Diablo 3
      
Here’s a quote about new legendary and set gear in Diablo from Barriga:
“There’s a staff legendary in the demo that turns [the spell] fireball into a triple fireball spell. The difference might be that, you know, a set right now in live Diablo 3 gives you bonuses more in the thousands. I think we’re designing the game right now to be a little bit more constrained to avoid getting us into that super escalating power curve.”
I don’t want to say Diablo 3 never had any problems with power creep, but I do worry about the concept of “constrained” legendary and set gear perks in a game like this, as part of the fun of Diablo is going as nuts as possible with builds, and then cranking up the difficulty so high that that constrains you, not the design of the items.
Believe me, I want to just be paranoid here, because I want Diablo 4 to be amazing. But on day one here, once you get past the initial hype of the existence of the game at all, I think there are some important questions to be raised here, and I am looking forward to seeing more from Blizzard (and playing a closed alpha, perhaps?) sometime soon.
