
# 'We need to be ready' - Liverpool fans on whether key man should be risked against Aston Villa

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Kemble**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/we-need-ready-liverpool-fans-17188878)

Liverpool fans have been having their say on whether midfielder Fabinho should start against Aston Villa.
The Brazilian is just one booking away from a yellow card with a crucial top-of-the-table clash against Manchester City to come next week.
That means if Fabinho plays and is booked against Villa on Saturday afternoon, he will miss that all-important match-up at Anfield.
Stuck in a dilemma, Jurgen Klopp spoke about the situation in his pre-match press conference.
"I don't know yet," the Liverpool boss replied when asked if he will be risking Fabinho.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
"We have to see. I know it (the potential suspension), of course. What we do with that I don't know."
But what do Liverpool fans think? Should Fabinho be risked?
Here's what they had to say on Twitter.
