
# Jose Mourinho aimed dig at Arsenal fans - and it could cost him getting Unai Emery's job

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:01:33+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jose-mourinho-aimed-dig-arsenal-20807163)

Jose Mourinho has been linked with the Arsenal job as pressure continues to build on current manager Unai Emery.
But previous comments Mourinho made about the north London club could go against the Portuguese, and rule him out of the running.
The Arsenal board has given Emery reassurances that he is not in immediate danger of being sacked despite the club's poor form in the league.
But a handful of names have been linked to the top job at the Emirates in recent weeks, including Mourinho, Mikel Arteta and Massimiliano Allegri.
Mourinho, it seems, is at the front of the queue, but he hasn't always seen eye to eye with Gunners supporters - and this may prove problematic.
Back in 2017 Mourinho's Manchester United were beaten 2-0 by Arsenal at the Emirates.
After the match an irritated Mourinho took a pop at the Gunners fans.
The Portuguese said: "I'm happy for them. It's the first time I leave and they're happy. I leave Highbury, they were crying.
"I leave the Emirates and they were crying, walking the streets with heads low. Today they leave with their scarves."
He also added: "It's a big club. You think I enjoy a big club like Arsenal not winning trophies? I don't enjoy it. But today I tried to win."
While his comments were made two years ago, they are still remembered by the Arsenal fanbase and may result in the board overlooking Mourinho in favour of someone else.
