
# How women are singled out for vile abuse for political ends

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:08:32+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Economist](https://www.economist.com/europe/2019/11/07/how-women-are-singled-out-for-vile-abuse-for-political-ends)

AFTER JESSIKKA ARO, a 38-year-old Finnish journalist, exposed pro-Kremlin trolls, they started trolling her. They released her medical history and her home address. They created a music video mocking her as a “Bond girl”. They claimed, without basis, that she was a prostitute soliciting male bigwigs from the CIA and NATO, who fed her lies about Russia. Some Finns read and believed the bogus stories online, then threatened to rape or kill her.
Sexual slander of the sort Ms Aro endured is a hallmark of disinformation campaigns. For the Kremlin, spreading such lies advances two related aims, says Jakub Janda, of the European Values think-tank in Prague. It can help discredit individual women who criticise the regime, and it can aggravate political divides in societies it wants to weaken.
Russian propaganda regularly dismisses female critics in sexist ways. “Women are targeted in cyberwars the same way they are in kinetic wars,” says Ms Aro. After Russian operatives carried out a nerve-agent attack in 2018 in the British city of Salisbury, pro-Kremlin sites concocted a story that Yulia Skripal, a victim of the poisoning, had been raped and impregnated. Russian state TV has claimed that Ukrainian protesters are plagued with sexual “psychosis”, and that Ukrainian politicians are closeted lesbians. When Svitlana Zalishchuk, a female former parliamentarian in Ukraine, publicly criticised Russia, doctored nude images of her appeared online. Nina Jankowicz of the Wilson Centre in Washington has dubbed such tactical smearing “sexualised disinformation”.
Sex-themed lies pervade pro-Kremlin fake news. If they are to be believed, ridiculous things are true: that the United Nations mandates sex education which fosters impotence and homosexuality among the young, or that British government funding has turned the whole of the Belarusian opposition gay. Another common narrative is of migrants sexually assaulting European women. These stories are usually exaggerated or fabricated—how victims are forced to apologise to their rapists, how law enforcement and politicians turn a blind eye to migrant crimes for fear of being labelled racist, how “semi-feminised” Western men are too enfeebled to protect women from such assaults.
Far-right political groups across Europe emulate Russia’s disinformation tactics and its themes. In Spain the populist Vox Party has shared false statistics about sexual assaults committed by migrants via its official Twitter account. Ironically Vox—which has made anti-feminism part of its platform—frames hard-line stances against migration as good for women. It is not always so easy to determine the source of fakery, though. Ms Jankowicz notes that often the most convincing co-ordinated disinformation blurs its origins. Luckily suspicious patterns offer clues.
One red flag is when lots of pages publish the same inflammatory messages, with the same captions, at roughly the same time. This is, in part, how Avaaz, an advocacy group, identified networks of fake accounts spreading far-right messages in Poland, Britain, Spain, Germany, France and Italy ahead of this year’s European Parliament elections. In April, within 11 minutes, more than two dozen Facebook pages, many since removed, “independently” posted a Polish-language story with warnings that migrant taxi drivers are sexual assailants, accompanied by an image of a woman lying limp by the roadside—a screenshot that was lifted from a fictional Polish film. And during campaigns for Spain’s election, a blitz of disinformation on WhatsApp reached 9.6m people, more than a quarter of potential voters. According to one of the erroneous stories, Manuela Carmena, then the left-leaning mayor of Madrid, planned to set up zones where gay people could have sex in public. What she had actually said was that the city should welcome gay people. ■
