
# Govt efforts to tackle 'Azadi March' gain pace

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:15:48+00:00**

Author: **News Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2092203/1-govt-efforts-tackle-azadi-march-gain-pace/)

Government efforts to tackle the ongoing ‘Azadi March’ by the opposition parties gained pace on Saturday as the protest entered its second day.
The government’s negotiating team met Prime Minister Imran Khan on Saturday at his Bani Gala residence to devise a future strategy.
A discussion on holding another round of talks with leaders of opposition parties leading the protest was also reportedly held during the meeting.
The premier also chaired a meeting of the ruling party’s core committee and discussed possible options to tackle the anti-government protest led by JUI-F Chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman.
Members of the negotiating team were also present during the meeting.
National Assembly Speaker Asad Qaiser has also reached out to Awami National Party (ANP) leader Mian Iftikhar. The NA speaker requested a meeting to discuss the current political situation of the country.
“I have told the NA speaker that after the Rehbar Committee’s meeting today, I will be able to respond to him,” said ANP’s Mian Iftikhar.
The NA speaker told the leader to ensure that there is no violence, to which the ANP lawmaker responded, “we are against any sort of violence ourselves”.
On Friday, the joint opposition demanded that Prime Minister Imran Khan and his administration resign within two days.
Azadi march is the first concerted opposition campaign that the premier is facing since he won the general election last year.
“I’m giving a two-day deadline for the resignation,” JUI-F’s Chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman, told his rally of supporters in Islamabad yesterday.
Thousands of JUI-F workers descended on the capital late on October 31 night after their five-day marathon journey which set off from Karachi on October 27.
Security remains tight in Islamabad with the government and diplomatic sector – just a few kilometres from the rally site – sealed off, and roads blocked shipping containers.
 
 
 
 
 
