
# Kevin Hart gets behind wheel of car 'without a seat belt' weeks after crash

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:17:58+00:00**

Author: **Brogan-Leigh Hurst**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kevin-hart-gets-behind-wheel-20808814)

Kevin Hart has reportedly been spotted getting behind the wheel of a muscle car without a seat belt just two months after breaking his spine in a near-fatal crash.
The comedian, 40, was seen smiling as he got into a '69 Camaro in Calabasas, California.
The vintage car was of similar era to the one he almost died in a few weeks back on September 1.
According to TMZ , Kevin pulled away without having put on a seatbelt just two months after his near-death experience.
The incident comes just days after the Hollywood funnyman shared an emotional video telling fans that he is "thankful for simply still being here".
Explaining the traumatic crash, he said: "After my accident I see things differently, I see life from a whole new perspective.
"My appreciation for life is through the roof. I'm thankful for my family, my friends."
He thanked fans for their "love and support," adding: "Don't take today for granted because tomorrow's not promised.
"More importantly I'm thankful for God, I'm thankful for life. I'm thankful for simply still being here."
The actor was a passenger in a 1970 Plymouth Barracuda when the driver lost control, sped down an embankment and smashed into a tree near Malibu.
He was left with major back injuries from the accident, which authorities blamed on reckless driving.
As he recovered, Kevin had to use a walking frame to stand up, and was also filmed undergoing physical therapy lessons at his home.
Mirror Online has contacted a representative for Kevin for comment.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
