
# Palike elastic on ban on plastic

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Amit Kumar**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/palike-elastic-on-ban-on-plastic/articleshow/71944222.cms)

The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had made a tall announcement about banning all types of plastic within its premises. The then mayor Gangambike Mallikarjun had also organised an event to announce the decision on plastic ban. The civic body had also decided to ban water bottles during the BBMP Council meetings. Many environmentalists welcomed the decision and expected it to act as model for other government departments to follow. However, Mayor Goutham Kumar and BBMP officials from the solid waste management department have conveniently forgotten about the ban on single-use plastic within the BBMP premises. While the Mayor and other corporators gave eloquent speeches on the pourakarmikas’ contribution to keep the city clean, the pourakarmikas were served water in hundreds of plastic bottles on the occasion of Dr BR Ambekdar Jayanthi. Empty plastic water bottles could be seen all over the premises, including the corridor leading to the public relations officer’s chamber. Ironically, the BBMP has put up a board in the same corridor, cautioning visitors against using plastic bottles. Meanwhile, BBMP joint commissioner (solid waste management) Sarfaraz Khan said that he was not aware that water had been served in plastic bottles while serving lunch to the pourakarmikas. “I did not attend the function. I was at another location,” he said. He asked BM to contact BBMP special commissioner Ranadeep D for further information. However N Ramakanth, a member of solid waste management round table said that the BBMP should have avoided supplying water in plastic bottles to the pourakarmikas. “KSRTC has already implemented the plastic ban as water will not be supplied in plastic bottles in luxury buses any longer. I don’t understand why the BBMP has not taken it seriously” he added. When BM contacted Goutham Kumar, he feigned ignorance. “Is it so?” he said before disconnecting the call.
