
# BREAKING Brit Army reject who went to fight against ISIS jailed for four years

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:28:35+00:00**

Author: **Kelly-Ann Mills, Emily Pennink, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-brit-army-reject-who-20832666?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

A man who joined a group fighting ISIS terrorists has been jailed for four years.
Aidan James, 28, is the first Brit to be punished for travelling to fight against Islamic State.
The British Army reject was charged after attending a Kurdish militant training camp in Iraq.
The man from Formby, in Merseyside had travelled to train with the banned Marxist political organisation the PKK in Iraq.
He had no previous military knowledge when he set out to join the war in 2017, the Old Bailey previously heard.
Following a landmark trial, James, who was repeatedly turned down by British armed forces due to his mental health, was found guilty of training in weapons with the PKK.
But he was cleared of a second charge of attending a place of terror training with Kurdish YPG units, or "People's Protection Units," across the border in Syria.
The defendant, who is in custody, has appeared today at the Old Bailey.
Justice Edis to sentenced him to four years in prison.
It is the first time a Brit has been put on trial for going to Syria to oppose IS, after charges were dropped against ex-soldier James Matthews, 43, from Dalston, east London.
The court had heard how Aidan James was in contact with the anti-terror Prevent programme before he left Britain for Iraq in August 2017.
While there, he wrote in his diary that sitting on a roof with a 50 calibre machine gun was like something out of "Mad Max".
By December, he wrote that the situation with Turkey was worsening, saying: " Daesh is the biggest threat the world has seen since Hitler so anything I can do in these operations is good."
Later, as he prepared to come home, James wrote in his diary of his "amazing time".
He wrote: "Lost good friends, met great ones, fought on front line numerous times, killed Daesh soldiers, been shot at many times by Isis and our own guys.
"Drove humvys (sic), sat on roof as drove through desert, attacked by suicide vehicles many times, mortar fire, sniper RPG, drones, chilled with donkey."
The court heard he finally returned to Liverpool John Lennon Airport on February 14 last year on flights via Baghdad, Amman and Amsterdam.
James declined to give evidence but denied training with PKK terrorists in Mahkmour, Iraq on or before October 1 2017 and attending another place for training in Syria with YPG units on or before November 4 2017.
