
# West Lothian lad seals bronze medal at European Taekwon-do Championships

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:03:16+00:00**

Author: **Callum Carson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/callum-carson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/west-lothian-lad-seals-bronze-20831973)

A 16-year-old from Murieston is targeting future success after clinching a bronze medal at the European Taekwond-do Championships in Sarajevo.
Connor Stuart, a member of Scotia Taekwon-do-UK Scotland, grabbed third place in the 50.1-56kg male junior category and paid tribute to his instructor David Condie for helping him grab a medal on the international stage.
He said: “I’ve been training with the Scotland squad for two years now and since I got back from the World Championships I had my training set towards this European Championships.
“There were selections up in Alloa which were quite exciting and tense and all my efforts went towards it in the hope that I would be successfully selected.”
 
He added: “Coming third at the European Championships is a real stepping stone for me.
“It’s been a long-time dream to have earned a medal at an international competition and finally all the hard work has paid off. I had been training very hard in preparation for this competition.
“I cannot thank everyone enough for all their help and support that I was given on the lead up to this competition, however my biggest thanks would go to my instructor Mr David Condie.
“If it wasn’t for him I wouldn’t be in the position I am now. This experience was absolutely jaw-dropping and I really hope to attend more events like this in the future and return home with more medals to add to the collection.”
