
# How did Amelia Bambridge die? British backpacker's cause of death confirmed after Cambodia post-mortem

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:50:55+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/how-amelia-bambridge-die-british-17184718)

A post-mortem examination has found that British backpacker Amelia Bambridge, whose body was found at sea a week after she disappeared in Cambodia, drowned.
The body of Ms Bambridge was examined at the main hospital in Sihanoukville, where it was taken after being found on Thursday in the Gulf of Thailand, the governor of Preah Sihanouk province said.
The 21-year-old, from Worthing, West Sussex, disappeared after attending a beach party on the night of October 23 on the island of Koh Rong.
Her body was discovered by fishermen about 60 miles away.
The provincial police chief earlier said the post-mortem examination would be attended by forensic police, a hospital doctor, a court prosecutor, a representative of the British Embassy and members of Ms Bambridge's family.
On Thursday her family confirmed that her body had been found in the sea following days of searching.
Her mother, Linda Schultes, arrived at the Sihanoukville Referral Hospital in Sihanoukville province on Friday, along with other members of her family.
Miss Bambridge was reported missing after she failed to check out of her hotel on time, and staff at Police Beach, a private venue on the island, found her purple rucksack with her purse, phone and bank cards inside the following morning.
Her body was found in the sea about 60 miles from the island where she disappeared, officials told the Associated Press.
