
# Demi Moore says 'addiction' to Ashton Kutcher was 'emotionally devastating'

Published at: **2019-11-05T02:53:57+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/demi-moore-says-addiction-ashton-20812959)

Demi Moore has spoken out about the 'devastating effect' her relationship with Ashton Kutcher had on her.
The 56-year-old actress opened up to Jada Pinkett Smith on Monday's edition of Red Table Talk on Facebook Watch and her ex husband was the hot topic of the night.
The Hollywood star described her relationship with Ashton as an "addiction", as she spoke candidly about the effects of her marriage, alongside daughters Rumer and Tallulah Willis.
Demi revealed: "The addiction and the co-dependency… like my addiction to Ashton - that was probably almost more devastating because it took me seriously away emotionally."
Demi admitted that has addiction had an adverse effect on her offspring and Rumer, 31, and Tallulah, 25 spoke about how the repercussions of this took their toll on them.
Tallulah bore the brunt of it as Rumer and her other sister Scout, 28, had moved out, leaving her to face the day-to-day fallout by herself.
Tallulah spoke about the feeling of loneliness, saying: "Watching the behaviour with Ashton, those years, because everyone had left the house and it was just me living there.
"I felt very forgotten and I feel like I developed and nurtured a narrative where she didn’t love me and I truly believed it."
Tallulah went on to confirm: "I know that she does, 100 percent but in that moment you’re hurt."
Demi was married to Ashton for eight years before they divorced in 2013 and Tallulah spoke about how she felt as a nine-year-old and seeing her mother relapse and become consumed by alcohol.
Speaking about the moment she succumbed to her addictive habits again, Demi said it was while she on a trip with Ashton.
Demi recalled: "Ashton said, ‘I don’t know if alcoholism’s a thing. I think it’s about moderation.'
"If I had stayed close to working my program... I, of course, lived the majority of my adult life sober. I was great sober.”
Speaking about why she had turned her back on 20 years of sobriety, Demi said: "I wanted to be that girl.”
She continued: "I made my own story up, that he wanted somebody that he could have wine with that he could do stuff [with].
"He’s not the cause of why I opened that door up. I wanted to be something other than who I am. And I gave my power away."
Demi has been similarly candid in her memoir, Inside Out, in which she has detailed how she "went into contortions to try to fit the mold of the woman he wanted his wife to be."
Her marriage to Ashton was ended after he admitted to cheating on Demi and was asked to move out of their home.
Demi said this sent her spiralling into a host of substance abuses, including Vicodin and alcohol.
During this time, her daughters decided to stop speaking to her until she had sorted out her life, with former husband Bruce Willis also letting their friendship lapse before Demi was able to come to terms with what had happened in the aftermath of her relationship with Ashton.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
