
# NEP’s final draft policy to focus on holistic learning

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kumaran P**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/neps-final-draft-policy-to-focus-on-holistic-learning/articleshow/71859755.cms)

Aiming at replacing numerous entrance tests, the NTA will work to offer high-quality common modular entrances, multiple times a year With the aim to transform assessment of students in schools and universities, the National Education Policy’s (NEP) final draft has come up with a robust system, aiming at replacing the numerous entrance tests. The National Testing Agency is all set to act as a sourcing agency for all kinds of exams in the universities. The final draft has said that the NTA will work to offer high-quality common modular entrance exams multiple times each year in various subjects; from logic, quantitative reasoning, and languages, to more specialized subject exams in the sciences, arts, and vocational subjects. It states, “The exams will test the conceptual understanding and the abilities to apply knowledge, and will eliminate the need for taking coaching for these exams. Students will be able to choose the range of subjects that they are interested in having tested, and each university will be able to see each student’s individual subject portfolio, and admit students into their programmes based on individual interests and talents.” The NEP clearly states that the NTA will serve as a premiere, expert, autonomous testing organisation to conduct entrance examinations for admissions and fellowships in higher educational institutions. “The high quality, range, and flexibility of the NTA testing services will enable most universities to use these common entrance exams - rather than having 100’s of universities, each devising their own exams - thereby drastically reducing the burden on students, universities, colleges and the entire education system,” it said. Now that the NEP has to be accepted by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), it also eases the examination process for the schools. The NEP aims to bring about a change in the assessment culture of our schooling system by shifting the fcus from primarily tests rote memorisation skills to one that is more formative, is competency based, promotes learning and development for our students, and tests higher-order skills such as analysis, critical thinking, and conceptual clarity. The primary purpose of assessment will indeed be for learning - to help the teachers and students and the entire schooling system. It also aims at continuously revising teaching -learning processes in order to optimise learning and development for all students. This will be the underlying principle for assessment at all levels of education.
The high quality, range and flexibility of the NTA testing services will enable most universities to use these common entrance exams, thereby drastically reducing the burden on students, universities and colleges, and the system
–The NEP final draft policyExperts in the NEP have opined that the current nature of secondary school exams, including Board exams and entrance exams - and the resulting coaching culture of today - are doing much harm, especially at the secondary school level, replacing valuable time for true learning with excessive exam coaching and preparation. “These exams also force students to learn a very narrow band of material in a single stream, rather than allowing the flexibility and choice that will be so important in the individualized education system of the future. The existing system of entrance examinations shall be reformed to eliminate the need for undertaking coaching for ‘cracking’ the examination,” it added. The NEP plans to encourage holistic development by letting students choose subjects for Board exams, depending on their individualised interests. Board exams will also be made ‘easier’, in the sense that they will test primarily core capacities rather than months of coaching and memorisation; and any student who has been going to and making a basic effort in a school class will be able to pass the corresponding subject without much additional effort. To eliminate the ‘high stakes’ aspect of Board Exams, all students will be allowed to take exams on up to two occasions during any given school year. In this regard, guidelines will be prepared by NCERT, and teachers will be prepared to align with the National Curriculum Framework 2020. A regulatory body will be formed at the national level, under Ministry of Education, for all recognised school boards of India, for regulating assessment and evaluation norms and standards, and for ensuring that the assessment patterns of the different boards meet the skill requirements of the 21st century and are in consonance with the stated objectives of this policy.
