
# Commonwealth champion Ravi, four others get four-year dope ban

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:23:23+00:00**

Author: **Sabi Hussain**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/more-sports/others/commonwealth-champion-ravi-four-others-get-four-year-dope-ban/articleshow/71916061.cms)

NEW DELHI: Weightlifter Ravi Kumar Katulu, who won gold at the 2010 Commonwealth Games (69 kg category) and a silver in 2014 (77 kg), has been banned for four years by the National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA).
Purnima Pandey, 2016 junior Commonwealth Championships gold-winning weightlifter, Federation Cup champ discus thrower Dharam Raj Yadav, 100 and 200m sprinter Sanjeet and weightlifter Gurmail Singh have also been suspended for four years for doping.

        DOPE SHAME: 
        Lifters could miss out on Tokyo Olympics
      
Ravi Kumar Katulu's urine sample has tested positive for banned substance Ostarine, a 'selective androgen receptor modulator' (SARM), which helps increase muscle mass. The presence of Ostarine in the samples of Ravi Kumar and Sanjeet is a blow to the country's anti-doping mechanism, as this substance has previously not been found in samples involving Indian athletes, sources told TOI. Ostarine is an investigational drug that has not yet been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
It is mostly found in supplements used by bodybuilders and has also been tried on those who have suffered muscle wastage due to long illness or have been diagnosed with osteoporosis. The positive dope result of Ravi Kumar, the reigning national champion in 89kg category, cast a shadow on the efforts of the Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF).
The IWLF is already in danger of losing its quota places for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, as the game's global governing body - IWF - has introduced a new set of rules for the Olympics. The rule states that any nation with 20 or more doping violations from 2008 to 2020 will have just one male and one female lifter at the Games. Countries with 10 to 19 doping violations over that same period will be limited to two men and two women in Tokyo and India falls into this category.
Dharam Raj's urine sample tested positive for increased testosterone level while Purnima's sample had traces of steroids.
Both Ravi Kumar and Purnima, who were tested during the 71st men and 34th women senior national weightlifting championships in Vishakhapatnam in February 2019, have been banned retrospectively from the month of their sample collection.
Dharam Raj's suspension has retrospectively kicked off from September 19, 2018 after the discus thrower was tested out-of-competition by NADA's dope-control officers (DCOs) at a Bengaluru hotel in a surprise check for evading dope testing for months. Sanjeet was tested incompetition at the Inter-Services athletics championship in Jalahalli in September last year. Another athlete, archer Sangampreet Bisla, has been left off with a reprimand after failing to report for terbutaline use.
With the 2020 Tokyo Olympics just nine months away, the development has come as a major embarrassment for Indian sports administrators. The country was subjected to global shame when the National Dope Testing Laboratory (NDTL) was suspended by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) for noncompliance of its laboratory testing procedures. The NDTL's suspension will continue till February 20, 2020.
