
# Liturgy and Hunter Hunt-Hendrix announce two new albums

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:03:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Sacher**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/liturgy-and-hunter-hunt-hendrix-announce-two-new-albums-for-2020/)

Liturgy recently released their first new song in four years, “God of Love,” and now they’ve officially announced a followup album to 2015’s The Ark Work. It’s called HAQQ and the release date is still TBA but stay tuned. That’s the artwork above.
In conjunction with this album announcement, Liturgy frontman Hunter Hunt-Hendrix has announced that he’ll release the soundtrack to the Origin of the Alimonies metal opera that he has been performing live (release date is TBA for that too). The soundtrack features Liturgy alongside Nate Wooley, Eve Essex, Josh Modney, Carrie Frey, Caleigh Drane, James Ilgenfritz, Marilu Donovan, and Eric Wubbels, and along with the announcement comes the release of “Apparition of the Eternal Church [edit].” It’s “an interlude from the Origin of the Alimonies opera and an interpretation/arrangement of French composer Olivier Messiaen’s solo organ piece Apparition Sur l’Elise Eternelle (1932), arranged and considerably altered and expanded,” and if you were wondering how “opera” vs how “metal” this would be, this excerpt is pretty fucking metal. Listen and check out the soundtrack artwork below.
Origin of the Alimonies makes its West Coast debut this month, and Liturgy are also touring the West Coast. All dates are listed below.
