
# Best board game deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:38:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Martin**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/entertainment/best-board-game-deals-3687546/)

The nights are getting darker and colder, which makes it the perfect time of year to get cosy with a hot drink and some fun board games. Getting a deal now will set you up perfectly for winter months and Christmas fun.
Black Friday, Cyber Monday and Boxing Day are all great opportunities to pick up games at low prices, with many retailers offering big discounts. But canny buyers will be able to find good offers throughout the year - and our bargain hunters are here to save you the trouble of trawling all the retailers separately.
We've rounded up great discounts and savings on a wide variety of quality board games, including the latest and greatest as well as some true classics. Be aware, however, that not all games are suitable for all ages.
There are, of course, lots of different types of board games, from party games to seriously competitive ones. We've tried to find a mix of different options so you find something you like.

        From: AmazonWas: £29.99Now: £16  (£14 or 47% off) View Deal
      
A superb deal on an inventive and popular game all about storytelling, imagination and the interpretation of strange artwork.

        From: AmazonWas: £32.99Now: £19.98  (£13 or 39% off) View Deal
      
Still a good price (despite having gone up by a fiver since the end of October) on a terrific party game, in which you try to describe items as quickly as possible without saying the name of the things themselves. Harder than it sounds, and lots of fun.

        From: Zatu GamesWas: £16.99Now: £11.15  (£6 or 34% off) View Deal
      
This is an excellent price, but more importantly it's a truly excellent game, all about clever clues and being on the same wavelength as your teammates - or not. A fun and reliable conversation starter, it's top of our Best party games article.

        From: Zatu GamesWas: £38.99Now: £24.49  (£15 or 37% off) View Deal
      
Grab the European edition of the popular Ticket to Ride game - which features in our best board games roundup - for train rides from Edinburgh to Constantinople. Many feel this is a better game overall than the US-based original, because the rules have been gently tweaked.

        From: Zatu GamesWas: £44.99Now: £29.79  (£15 or 34% off) View Deal
      
If you're into horror and semi-co-operative gaming, Betrayal at House on the Hill is perfect for you. In which case, get it now while the price is low - at time of writing Zatu is even beating Amazon's offer.

        From: Zatu GamesWas: £57.99Now: £36.61  (£21 or 37% off) View Deal
      
A low price for this popular survival horror zombie game. The RRP is £57.99 - not that you'd know it from Zatu's overly modest sale page, which only shows the (already low) price the site previously charged. It's currently £44.99 on Amazon.

        From: Zatu GamesWas: £72.99Now: £48.48  (£25 or 34% off) View Deal
      
This is the follow-up to the critically-acclaimed and best-selling co-operative game Pandemic, in which you team up to cure disease around the globe. In this Legacy version your decisions in one game affect future games; you'll be gripped by the fight for survival.

        From: AmazonWas: £33.99Now: £22.99  (£11 or 32% off) View Deal
      
Try not to fall out with your family while conquering the world.

        From: VeryWas: £19.99Now: £12.99  (£7 or 35% off) View Deal
      
A kicking deal on the classic donkey-encumbering party game.

        From: AmazonWas: £19.99Now: £13.99  (£6 or 30% off) View Deal
      
Memorise those two-letter words and destroy your family at this classic word game.

        From: AmazonWas: £26.95Now: £17.10  (£10 or 37% off) View Deal
      
This is the board game of choice for all the music lovers out there, now with a big saving.

        From: AmazonWas: £23.99Now: £15.95  (£8 or 34% off) View Deal
      
Another classic with a decent chunk of money off. Find out whodunnit.

        From: AmazonWas: £12.99Now: £9.99  (£3 or 23% off) View Deal
      
This is a delightfully simple and engrossing card game, in which you try to spot which symbol appears on two cards before your competitors do.

        From: TescoWas: £23Now: £17.25  (£6 or 25% off) View Deal
      
Prepare for the onslaught of Frozen II merchandise with this tie-in edition of Monopoly, in which you can freeze other players in place.

        From: AmazonWas: £24Now: £18.97  (£5 or 21% off) View Deal
      
You've probably already got Cluedo in the cupboard, so why not get this similar but more cryptic Sherlock detective game?
