
# Hong Kong protests: Politician 'has ear bitten off' as three stabbed in mall

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:07:43+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/hong-kong-protests-politician-has-20801976)

A politician had part of his ear bitten off during fresh violence in Hong Kong, according to reports.
Shocking footage shows Andrew Chiu surrounded by an angry crowd, and his ear is seen on the ground following the incident.
Three people were reportedly stabbed in the latest disorder.
Anti-government protesters crowded shopping malls in running clashes with police on Sunday.
Several people suffered bloody wounds a day after parts of the Chinese-ruled city became a battleground after five months of unrest.
 
A human chain in the upmarket Hong Kong island mall of Cityplaza, in Taikoo Shing, turned into a bloody face-to-face conflict with police.
Police said protesters had vandalised a restaurant after a peaceful chanting of slogans.
Several people were wounded, one man in a white tee-shirt being beaten with sticks by protesters.
Another man lay in a pool of blood on the pavement.
Broadcaster RTHK said district councillor Andrew Chiu was among the wounded and that part of his ear had been bitten off.
 
A kitchen knife lay on the ground outside the mall.
"These police are not what they used to be," said Julie, 24, giving police the middle finger.
"They come in here and push us around. It is not right."
Police made several arrests.
There were scuffles, confrontations and vandalism in malls in the New Territories towns of Tai Po, Tuen Mun and Sha Tin, where police fired pepper spray as protesters hurled abuse.
Pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong, which was returned to Chinese rule by Britain in 1997, battled police across the territory's main island on Saturday.
They are furious at Communist Party leaders in Beijing and perceived Chinese meddling with Hong Kong's freedoms, which China denies.
They have vandalised Hong Kong businesses seen as being pro-China and in July daubed China's Liaison Office, the key symbol of Chinese sovereignty, with graffiti.
Police fired tear gas, rubber bullets and a water cannon at protesters on Saturday and early Sunday as the violence spilled from Hong Kong island across the harbour to Kowloon.
One of the protesters' key demands is an independent probe into perceived police brutality.
There have been several injuries, including a protester shot in the chest and a policeman slashed in the neck, but no deaths since the protests began in June.
Hong Kong returned to China under a "one country, two systems" formula which guarantees its freedoms for 50 years.
China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) has a garrison in Hong Kong but troops have remained in barracks since the protests began.
