
# UFC 244 Preview And Picks: The Deck Is Stacked Against Darren Till

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/01/ufc-244-preview-and-picks-the-deck-is-stacked-against-darren-till/)

In June, UFC president Dana White admitted that in hindsight, the promotion might have pushed Darren Till too far, too fast. “I think Till went back to the drawing board. He’s a young guy and after the win over (Donald) ‘Cowboy’ (Cerrone) we might have pushed him a little too soon,” White told ESPN in June. “It happens sometimes when a guy gets that much steam behind him and pump the brakes a little here. Let him get back and work on things that he needs to work on and he’s going to be around.
“You come in and beat a guy like ‘Cowboy’ and boom, you immediately get bounced right up into the middle of the rankings and some people it’s the perfect time, some people it’s are a little soon. That weight division is nasty. It’s like murderer’s row in that top eight. So we’ll give him some time, look for a next opponent and see what’s next for him.”
White’s remarks came after Till had been submitted by Tyron Woodley in September 2018 and knocked out by Jorge Masvidal in March of this year.
Till, who had struggled to make welterweight, decided to move to middleweight after White commented on his plight. However, Till did not want a step down in competition to go with his step up in weight. With that, Till pursed a fight against Kelvin Gastelum, who is coming off a five-round decision loss to Israel Adesanya. Adesanya earned the interim middleweight title with his victory over Gastelum and would go on to win the undisputed title with a knockout of Robert Whittaker in October. Gastelum is currently the No. 4 ranked fighter in the 185-pound division.
If the matchup, which is the co-main event of Saturday’s UFC 244 pay-per-view card, isn’t tough enough for Till, he was thrown an additional curveball during fight week. Till had issues with his visa and it seems as if he will not have a lot of time to deal with his weight cut. The UFC has scratched Till from Thursday’s media day and said he will be available following Friday’s ceremonial weigh-ins. The news of Till’s issues with his visa were first reported by @TalkMMA.
There’s also the fact that Till could earn a title shot with a win on Saturday. Paulo Costa, who seemed to be in line for a shot at the middleweight title, will be out until spring after he suffered a setback while recovering from bicep surgery according to MMA Fighting.
If Till wanted to show the UFC he can overcome adversity, a victory on Saturday will go a long way toward making that point. 
UFC 244 takes place Saturday at New York's Madison Square Garden. The pay-per-view card airs on ESPN+ following prelims on ESPN2 and ESPN+.
Pick: Gastelum

        More From UFC 244:
      
