
# UK can't rely on US platforms to regulate political ads, inquiry told

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:36:36+00:00**

Author: **Alex Hern**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/media/2019/nov/05/uk-cant-rely-on-us-platforms-to-regulate-political-ads-inquiry-told)


        ASA tells Lords committee it is not the right body to regulate political advertising
      
The UK cannot continue to rely on the goodwill of US digital platforms for regulating political adverts online, the chair of a parliamentary inquiry into democracy and digital campaigning has told the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA).
“We cannot sit around waiting for the west coast of the USA to decide they want to behave like human beings,” Lord Puttnam told the chair and the chief executive of the ASA in the House of Lords on Tuesday. “We don’t have a system that can accommodate with that.”
Guy Parker, the ASA’s chief executive, told the committee his personal view was that political advertising should be regulated in the UK, but that the ASA did not have an official position on the matter, apart from to say that it was not the right body to handle the task.
“You could construct a political advertiser regulatory vehicle that could meet the public demand for this area not to continue to go unregulated forever,” Parker said. “As someone with a career in regulation, there have been political claims that I’d have quite liked to regulate, but there have been others that would have been a nightmare, would have been fiercely contested, and would have required a lot of resources to get right.”
Lord Currie, the ASA’s chair, added: “I don’t think it’s for the ASA to advocate for the regulation of political advertising. But we don’t think we’re the best vehicle for actively doing it.”
Currie argued that the ASA would struggle to move fast enough to regulate political adverts, particularly during an election.
“Our general processes would not be suitable for rapid responses that would be needed in the political case. But I don’t see that as the major reason – I think the key one is that we are collectively self-regulated, and we rely on the buy-in of those we regulate. I don’t see that the political parties have the willingness to buy in.”
He added: “We have enforcement by the industry. It’s the industry that takes the ads down, and that aspect of it would be quite hard to replicate in the political sphere.”
The ASA stopped regulating political advertising in the 1990s, in part, Parker said, ‌due to the fact that “you have to tread lightly when regulating political speech”.
The hearing comes after Facebook and Google were urged to impose a moratorium on all political advertising in the UK in the run-up to next month’s election, by a group of campaigners who argued that “there is no time for regulations to catch up”.
