
# Nurse suffered stroke at just 23-years-old after blood clot on her brain

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:36:36+00:00**

Author: **Helen Johnson, Ben Weich**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/nurse-suffered-stroke-just-23-20801681)

A nurse who suffered a stroke aged just 23 has warned others of the "terrifying" emotional aftermath.
Hannah McGrath had just started her career in Sheffield and had travelling plans to look ahead to when she developed blood clots in her brain .
Hannah, now working at Manchester Royal Infirmary as an A&E nurse, developed suffered the clots after taking the contraceptive pill for just two months.
The blood clots had travelled to her brain through a hole in her heart.
She had just finished when she suddenly felt agonising pain in her head, as though she had "been hit by something".
She told the Manchester Evening News: "I got this really sudden extreme headache at the back of my head. Then the room was tipping from side to side. I thought I was going to fall over, I lowered myself to the ground.
 
"I was home alone so I don't know if I had any symptoms but I just knew I couldn't stand up and thought I was going to throw up.
"I just stayed on the floor for what I didn't realise until afterwards was about three hours.
"It seems silly now but I just thought I was exhausted and stressed.
"I felt off for the rest of the week. The following Sunday I was at work and I was doing a medication round and had to open a bottle of water and I dropped it.
"I couldn't pick it up off the ground, I couldn't grip my hand".
Hannah was admitted to hospital and after a battery of tests, doctors eventually found that Hannah had developed the clots.
She said: "It was a weird situation, I wanted a reason for it. I was in denial that it happened.
"I'd started my career as a nurse, I'd just booked a ticket to go travelling for a couple of months, I had loads planned and was told none of that was going to happen.
"It was a difficult time. I've got friends who have been on the pill for 15 years. I was on it for eight weeks - what are the chances of that?"
Hannah decided to speak out to describe the ways in which the emotional recovery is the most difficult aspect of having a stroke.
Time and again she was told by acquaintances that she "didn't look like she'd had a stroke".
 
It was an extra blow, having to also cope with being physically exhausted and terrified of another stroke.
Hannah said: "Everything that seems really important to you at 23, like your job, has been taken away.
"I had to leave my job, I was living with friends with Sheffield and I had to move back to Norwich to the family home that I hadn't lived in for four or five years.
"I lost my independence, I wasn't able to drive. It was still under investigation so I was living in fear of it happening again in my sleep and not waking up, or walking up paralysed or not being able to talk. These kind of things were at the forefront of my mind.
"It affected me emotionally in a big way, I was low in mood for a long time, didn't really get out of bed or leave the house for had a low mood for a long time.
"Because I didn't have any physical long term difficulties, my hand was weak, but not visible to anybody else.
"I used to get all the time 'Well you don't look like you've had a stroke' but I felt exhausted, I felt terrified.
"The emotional, psychological effects that people don't see are really difficult to overcome, it's taken a while to get in a better head space with that.
"I still get it now, if I tell someone I've just met, who isn't aware of what's happened, they'll say 'really?' or 'you don't look like you've had a stroke', like I made it up".
The main stroke symptoms can be remembered with the word FAST:
Other symptoms and signs may include:
 
Hannah spoke to stroke survivors of a similar age, whom she found through the Stoke Association's Young Stroke network.
She quickly understood that there were many others who were experiencing the same ordeal.
She added: "When you hear stroke, I think people assume an elderly person with disabilities unable to talk, whereas there's a lot of people of working age.
"The feedback I got from people was that they were trying to get on with their lives and they didn't need people saying 'Well, you look fine, why are you so tired? There's nothing wrong with you'."
Although she will now have to take medication for the rest of her life, Hannah has finally been able to return to work as a nurse.
 
She has begun raising awareness of stroke to coincide with the release of new research by the the Stroke Association, concerning the fears stroke survivors experience, and the ways it diminishes their wellbeing.
According to the research, eight out of ten people felt scared to go out alone and 90 per cent lived in fear of having another stroke.
One in five reportedly kept their fears to themselves, without disclosing their fears to anyone else.  
The Stroke Association has urged those living with fear and anxiety after a stroke to contact them for support.
Juliet Bouverie, the chief executive of the Stroke Association, said: “It takes a team to rebuild lives after stroke. When stroke strikes, part of your brain shuts down, and so does a part of you.
"Recovery is tough, but with the right specialist support, the brain can adapt after stroke. I have heard countless stories, and know countless people who, after many years continue to make remarkable recoveries.
"The first step to eliminating fear is to ask for help and support.
"If you are a stroke survivor, this could mean speaking to your doctor or social worker to get some answers. If you know a stroke survivor, reach out, ask them how they’re feeling. No one should have to live their life in constant fear.”
The Stroke Association's helpline can be reached on 0303 3033 100, and support can be accessed from stroke.org.uk/rebuilding-lives
