
# From ectoplasm to 'dead' aunts - the real story of Scotland's last convicted witch

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Anna Burnside**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/ectoplasm-sunken-ships-dead-aunts-20827851)

She was the phoney fortune teller who became known as being Britain’s last convicted witch.
The story of Helen Duncan, who was jailed for witchcraft in 1944, certainly cast a spell on people and yesterday it was announced she is to have a street in her hometown off Callander named after her.
Her family say Hellish Nell, as she was to become known, was not a witch but was a “wonderful” medium in the 30s and 40s.
Others said she was a fraudster who made cash holding seances and that she wasn’t even very good at that.
Helen’s psychic tendencies seemed to be there from childhood. Born in 1897, Victoria Helen MacFarlane was said to readily predict doom and devastation.
A mum of six and married to Henry Duncan, she was encouraged by Henry to make money from her clairvoyant abilities. She would read tea leaves and make predictions for cash.
After moving to Edinburgh, her seances became widely known and Helen was making a good living selling her spiritualism.
At the shows, she wowed audiences by producing “ectoplasm” from her mouth. She appeared to summon her spirit guide, Peggy, who would materialise behind a curtain.
In 1928, a photographer used flash photography to record Duncan in action. These revealed Peggy to be a clumsy dummy wrapped in a sheet.
When the London Spiritualist Alliance investigated Duncan’s claims, they found the “ectoplasm” she regurgitated was made of cheesecloth, paper, egg white and toilet paper. She later elaborated on this performance by adding rubber gloves and cut-out heads from magazine covers, claiming these were spirits.
At an Edinburgh seance, one of the sitters grabbed “Peggy” – who was then discovered to be made from a child’s vest.
 
Her former maid and her husband both admitted to helping her prepare the different tricks and effects she used in her seances.
Helen was first investigated in 1941 when, during a seance in Portsmouth, she claimed the spirit of a sailor told her that the HMS Barham had been sunk.
The fate of the ship, which was sunk off the coast of Crete by a German submarine, had been kept secret. Only the families of the 862 crewmen killed had been informed. It was not announced publicly until January 1942.
The Navy then took an interest in her seances – and were not impressed by what they found. At one of her sittings, a white cloth figure behind a curtain claimed to be one lieutenant’s dead aunt. He didn’t have a dead aunt.
Later on, another ghostly figure announced herself as his sister. His sister was very much alive.
After the lieutenant reported Duncan to the police, they began their own investigation. The white fabric figure turned out to be the medium herself.
It emerged that her revelation about HMS Barkham had come from another source.
Duncan was initially arrested under the vagrancy act and tried by magistrates. Her case was then upgraded and she was eventually charged her under the Witchcraft Act 1735. This covered fraudulent “spiritual” activity and was tried by a jury.
Helen was convicted in 1944 and was imprisoned in Holloway. She served six months of her sentence before being released in 1945.
Despite promising to stop conducting seances, she was arrested during another one in 1956. She died later that year.
Now her family hope the proposed Duncan Drive in a new estate in the Perthshire town will help to reclaim her reputation.
Her granddaughter, Margaret Hahn, said: “I can’t change what happened to my gran or our family but I will continue to work on her legacy as wonderful medium.
“I would be honoured to have a street named after my grandma. Many individuals visit Callander every year just because that is where Helen Duncan is born.”
The plan for Duncan Drive coincides with a proposal for a memorial to all Scottish witches in Fife.
Fife Council wants to rebuild the Beamer Rock navigation beacon, which was moved to build the new bridge across the Forth, at the site where Lilias Adie was burned in 1704.
Historical writer Sara Sheridan, author of Where Are The Women?, welcomes the move to honour Duncan and the memory of all the Scots who were branded witches.
She said: “I think it’s great that noteworthy and prominent women’s legacy is beginning to be normalised in our built environment.
“It’s really important that women’s achievements are memorialised and that this is done in the same way we memorialise men’s lives.”
