
# Can you stream PlayStation Now games to mobile devices with Remote Play?

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:00:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/can-you-stream-playstation-now-mobile-devices-remote-play?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Best answer: Sony is very clear; there is no remote play compatibility on PlayStation Now. You are unable to stream any PlayStation Now content to your phone via Remote Play.
PlayStation Now (PS Now) is Sony's game streaming service. For around $60 a year you can stream over 750 PS4, PS3, and PS2 games directly to your PlayStation 4, or download over 200 games to use offline. That's a pretty good selection for a little under $5 a month.
PS Now has taken a little while to get going as Sony originally priced PS Now at twice the current cost. This left a lot of people wondering if it was worth it, especially when you need PS Plus, which is another $60 a year. Now though, you can comfortably buy PS Now as a one-off payment and feel good knowing you have 750 games to play whenever you like.
Remote Play is an app for your phone that allows you to use it as a TV to play PlayStation 4 games. It's easy to set up — you need to download the app and go through some simple steps and you can be playing Destiny 2 on your phone from bed. It's pretty great.
The great thing is your PS4 is doing all the heavy lifting, so your phone doesn't need to be an amazing super phone for it to work. Any phone using Android 5.0 and above will happily run your games as well as they would on your PS4. You will need Android 10 if you want to connect your DualShock, though; otherwise, you need to use the on-screen buttons.

        Source: PlayStation
      
Unfortunately no. Remote Play and PS Now are both excellent experiences that can't be excellent together. Sony has given no reasons as to why we can't use them together, but our assumption is that it's a processing issue. Having the PS4 handle the stream down from PS Now and then up to your phone may be more than the console can handle.
As far as we know, you can't even use Remote Play on the 200+ games you can download from PS Now to play offline, which is odd. It means they have coded that limitation into the DRM, and it has nothing to do with the PlayStation 4 processing.
Gaming where you want.
PlayStation Now allows users to stream 800 different games to their PlayStation 4 or PC, a good portion of which can be downloaded directly to your console. With an ever-growing library, it's a great option if you don't want to purchase a bunch of games.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Best stuff in life is free Outlast 2 brings the scares in November's free PS Plus games If you have a PlayStation Plus membership, then you know about PlayStation's free games of the month. Here are the free games you can get this month with your membership.
      

        be still my beating wallet Every PlayStation 4 game coming out in November 2019 Here are the biggest PS4 games dropping this month!
      

        best of the best Modern Warfare looks stunning in 4K, the best enhanced games for PS4 Pro If you want the most outstanding experiences on PlayStation 4 that take advantage of the PS4 Pro's power to enhance their graphics and performance, these are some of the best games you can get.
      
