
# Emotional Darren Till admits he considered faking injury ahead of UFC 244 fight

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:00:43+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/emotional-darren-till-admits-considered-20801882)

Darren Till was so terrified of walking to the cage he considered faking injury to pull out of his fight with Kelvin Gastelum.
The Liverpudlian made his middleweight debut at UFC 244 on Saturday night following back-to-back defeats by Tyron Woodley and Jorge Masvidal.
And although he emerged victorious by split decision to put his career back on track, Till revealed he had been battling his inner demons all week.
“Before Woodley, there was no guy who could beat me,” he said. "And then two losses like that? It just took a lot away from me inside of me. I didn’t say it, but I fought some hard demons.
"Then obviously getting arrested [in Spain after his hotel was vandalised] and there's other things. You lose sponsors and it’s a f****** whirlwind. It’s good and it’s bad.
"Just to get in there tonight, I tell you, I was trying to fake an injury before walking out. I was thinking of an injury to fake because I just simply did not want to get in there.
“This is probably a thing fighters don’t talk about, but you know me and I’m honest, that’s just where I was at.
“Every fight, no matter what any fighter will ever tell you, they will be scared. If they tell you they’re not, it’s a blatant lie.
"This fighter wasn’t scared; I was terrified. I wasn’t shaking, but I just didn’t want to go.
"Now, I’m here and my confidence is back. Like f*** all these middleweights; I’m coming for everything, it’s back."
Till dominated large swathes of his fight with Gastelum who was ranked No.4 in the division coming into the fight.
One judge scored the fight 30-27 to the loser but the other two gave Till the nod.
And the Brit added: “Then the first round is over and I’m like, 'Come on, pull yourself together. Now we’re going to win this fight the way we planned. We’re not gonna let him touch you and you’re going to win it',
"I knew it was going to be hard to knock him out. I knew I had the power, but he’s a tough cookie."
