
# United to spend Janaury window on attacking reinforcements

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:47:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/EnglishPremiership/united-to-spend-janaury-window-on-attacking-reinforcements-20191106)

Cape Town - Manchester United have reportedly made the funds from the sale of Romelu Lukaku available to manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer ahead of the January market.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's side have picked up just five Premier League points from the last 18 available after slipping to Saturday's 1-0 loss at Bournemouth.
United appeared to be building some momentum on the back of three successive away wins in three different competitions but their mini revival was ended at the Vitality Stadium by former player Joshua King.
The south coast setback leaves the Red Devils with only 13 points from 11 top-flight games - their lowest total at this stage of a season for 33 years - and piles pressure back on manager Solskjaer.
The Red Devils will now look to spend in the January transfer market as they look to help Solskjaer build some momentum on the pitch.
The Metro claims that United 'confident of making at least one signing' in January after Solskjaer's insistence that the club would find a replacement for Romelu Lukaku, who left for Inter Milan in the summer.
The club's hierarchy will 'make amends in January' after failing to land a striker in the summer and have 'already agreed personal terms with an unnamed target'.
Marcus Rashford is United's top goalscorer this season with seven goals and three assists to his name, while Anthony Martial has bagged four.
With teenager Mason Greenwood providing the main back-up option for the pair, Solskjaer and the club are now keen to bring in more reinforcements.
United's executive vice-chairman has 'allocated the £73 million received from the sale of Lukaku to Solskjaer' with United 'determined to take a more prudent approach in the transfer market'.
The Metro adds that Tottenham midfielder Christian Eriksen is still on United's radar with the club 'willing to put up a fee for Eriksen in January.'
