
# Photographer Under Fire Over Retouching Options For Elementary School Portraits

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mikelle Leow**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407254/Photographer-Under-Fire-Over-Retouching-Options-For-Elementary-School-Portraits/)

Most commercial photos have been given the Photoshop treatment, and while retouching pictures is frowned upon by many, it has unfortunately become the norm. For the most part, though, parents might agree that airbrushing photos of children is unhealthy. Let kids be kids, insists one mom from Phoenix, Arizona. BBC Radio 5 Live presenter Sam Walker’s tweet showing a selection of retouching options for school portraits by an unspecified photography company has made its rounds. Walker relates that her daughters just had their school picture day, and as much as it should make parents proud, she laments that “there is the option to AIRBRUSH the picture!” The presenter adds that there are “two levels” to the bundle. The basic tier comprises blemish removal, while the premium version additionally fixes uneven skin tones and whitens teeth. “What eight-year-old needs to be paranoid about an ‘uneven skin tone?’” Walker asks. The choices offered were especially distressing for Walker, as her eight-year-old daughter has a rare autoimmune condition that causes lesions on her skin and turns her teeth yellow. “To suggest we can wipe that away [and that] you can look like everyone else is incredibly dangerous and very sad,” she tells Metro.co.uk. Advertisement Advertisement Fellow parents share her sentiment, with one writing, “Lunch cardigan stain… Dishevelled hair… Face graze from fall at lunch time… That makes it a school photo.” The mother of a four-year-old elaborates that her young child’s photo packages also include similar options.
