
# Under Armour Shares Down 15% In Premarket Trading Over Reports Of Federal Accounting Probe

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Isabel Togoh**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/isabeltogoh/2019/11/04/under-armour-shares-down-15-in-pre-market-trading-over-reports-of-federal-accounting-probe/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2796871977&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

Topline: Under Armour shares dropped 15% in premarket trading after the sportswear company confirmed on Sunday it is under criminal investigation by the Justice Department and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over allegations of improper accounting practices.
Key background: Under Armour has faced a tumultuous past few years. Last month its CEO and founder, Kevin Plank, stepped down after more than 20 years at the helm and handed the baton to Patrik Frisk, who will take over in 2020. Following a golden era of impressive sales and revenue growth, the firm has in recent years struggled to compete with rivals such as Nike in the U.S. In April 2017, the firm posted a loss and has struggled to regain its previous success, while its share price has fallen 44% in three years.
But financial troubles aren’t the only ones eating away at the firm—facing accusations of being a “boys club,” Under Armour hired a new chief people and culture officer in a bid to improve gender balance in senior roles. It also said it would “do better” last year after it emerged that senior executives, including Plank, would often visit strip clubs or behave inappropriately towards female employees.
What to watch for: Under Armour will report its third-quarter earnings on Monday. According to guidance issued in its previous earnings report, the firm expects its North America sales to continue to fall slightly.
Further reading: The Under Armour Troubles That Preceded Kevin Plank Stepping Down (Deniz Çam)
