
# Sean Doolittle, Adam Eaton remain with Nationals on club options

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Zielonka**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/4/sean-doolittle-adam-eaton-remain-nationals-club-op/)

The Washington Nationals exercised their club options for 2020 for relief pitcher Sean Doolittle and outfielder Adam Eaton.
Doolittle has played for Washington since arriving by trade in 2017. Once the team’s regular closer, by season’s end he was sharing that role with Daniel Hudson while also sometimes playing the set-up role in the seventh or eighth inning to help the Nationals’ maligned bullpen.
He finished the season with a career-high 29 saves and figures to factor into the Nationals’ plans in one of those key roles in 2020.
Eaton became Washington’s everyday right fielder in 2019 after Bryce Harper held that corner down for most of his time in town. Eaton batted .279 with 15 home runs and 49 RBI and had a terrific postseason, with a .320 batting average and .993 on-base plus slugging (OPS) with six RBI and two home runs.
Meanwhile, the Nationals officially declined the 2020 club option on Ryan Zimmerman’s contract, which was reported over the weekend, making him a free agent. They also declined the option on catcher Yan Gomes.
Zimmerman’s option was for $18 million, but both sides are interested in bringing the man known as “Mr. Nat” back at a lower salary.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
