
# What’s going on Wednesday?

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **BrooklynVegan Staff**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/whats-going-on-wednesday-186/)

You can browse our full NYC show calendar for all of tonight’s shows, but here are some highlights…
JPEGMAFIA, Butch Dawson @ Bowery BallroomJPEGMAFIA has quickly become a force in avant-rap, and he continues to get bigger and bigger. His tour supporting his great new album All My Heroes Are Cornballs includes sold-out NYC shows at Bowery Ballroom tonight and MHOW on Friday.
Clairo, beabadoobee, Hello Yello @ Brooklyn SteelAlt-pop artist Clairo has seen a wave of success thanks to her catchy, Rostam-produced debut album Immunity, and this Brooklyn show also features fellow bedroom pop artist beabadoobee and Oakland funk trio Hello Yello. It’s her second of two Brooklyn shows on this tour.
Dead & Company @ NYCB LIVE: Nassau Veterans Memorial ColiseumDead & Company began their Fall Fun Run at MSG on Halloween, and tonight they wrap up a two-night stand at the Coliseum. As you’d expect, they mixed up the setlists a lot at the MSG shows, and we can probably count on more surprises this week.
New York Comedy FestivalThe 2019 New York Comedy Festival gets into high gear today, with shows all over the five boroughs, and Tuesday’s lineup includes National Lampoon Radio Hour, Catherine Cohen, Murray Hill, The Lesbian Agenda, and lots, lots more.
Hollerado, Luna Li, Mythless @ Baby’s All RightCanadian indie rockers Hollerado are throwing calling it quits but not before one last tour. This will be NYC’s final chance to see them and they’ve always been a lot of fun live and confetti cannons are not uncommon.
The Art Gray Noizz Quintet, Lydia Lunch, A Deer A Horse, Conduit @ Brooklyn BazaarThere aren’t too many more chances to catch a show at Brooklyn Bazaar before it closes and this is a pretty great one, featuring NYC punk icon Lydia Lunch, The Art Gray Noizz Quintet (ex-Lubricated Goat) and more.
Pow Pow Family Band, Katy Rea, The Natvral @ The BroadwayIt’s a night of indiepop, including twee group Pow Pow Family Band and The Natvral (aka Kip from Pains of Being Pure at Heart).
David Byrne’s American Utopia @ Hudson TheatreDavid Byrne has retooled his acclaimed “untethered” 2018 for the Broadway stage and while the setlist and arrangements are much like what they were on his tour, songs are now threaded together with new monologues from Byrne, making for a much more theatrical experience.
For all of tonight’s shows, and tomorrow’s, check out our NYC concert calendar.
—

        STAY IN TOUCH
      
Find BrooklynVegan on FACEBOOK and TWITTER and INSTAGRAM and YOUTUBE and SPOTIFY and SNAPCHAT.
For even more NYC show info, follow @BVNYCshows on Twitter.
Join our EMAIL LIST.
For even more metal, visit Invisible Oranges and follow them on Facebook & Twitter.
What else?
