
# Musician, 36, named as pub-goer who died after car ploughed into smoking area

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:27:58+00:00**

Author: **Amber Hicks, Paige Ingram, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/musician-36-named-pub-goer-20810018)

A 36-year-old who died after a car ploughed into a pub smoking area has been named by heartbroken friends.
Tributes are being paid to "amazing musician" Stuart McClung, who was pronounced dead at the scene of The Spinnaker Pub along Hythe Quay in Colchester.
Emergency services were called just before 1am on Sunday where they tried in vain to save guitarist Stuart, who played in a popular local band called New Town Kings, reports Essex Live.
A 34-year-old man - named locally as Ian Winter - was also rushed to hospital with life-changing injures, while two others, a 34-year-old woman and a 33-year-old man, named as Carl Joyner, suffered minor injuries.

        
          Have you been affected by the incident? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk
        
      
A 40 year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder, causing grievous bodily harm with intent, death by dangerous driving and assault.
In a tribute shared online by fellow musician, Tony Gibsong described Stuart as “an amazing man”.
Another said: "Deepest condolences to the family and friends of New Town Kings' guitarist, Stuart McClung who was killed this weekend. one of the good guys. Rest Easy x."
The New Town Kings band has not yet commented publicly on Stuart's death.
The eight-piece reggae band from Essex has almost 800 subscribers on YouTube.
The band’s modern twist on classic Jamaican music has seen them play with the likes of The Skints, Lucky Chops and US reggae legends The Aggrolites.
The band has played over 500 shows across 10 different countries since their formation in 2006, including the UK, Germany, France, Holland, Croatia, Czech Republic, Austria and Switzerland.
Meanwhile, the pub at the centre of the tragedy has since released a statement on its Facebook page.
It read: "A very massive thank you for all the support we have received today from family, friends and our awesome Spinnaker regulars you have helped Bridget and I get through a very dark day.
"We are devastated that a wonderful talented young man has lost his life through no fault of his own and pass on our condolences to his family, girlfriend and friends.
"We so hope our amazing courageous friend Ian can battle his injuries and come back to us and Carl be strong you were both amazing in the face of such devastation.
"Something early this morning put the Great back in Great Britain for me and that was the amazing professionalism of our emergency services your efforts will never be forgotten.
"We will be closed for some time to rectify the structural and interior damage. Thank you all love Rod and Bridget."
A spokesman for Essex Police said yesterday: "We were called shortly after 12.50am today following reports that a white Nissan Qashqai had crashed into The Spinnaker Public House in Colchester.
"Following the collision Hythe Quay was closed for around seven hours and was reopened at around 9am this morning.
"Tragically a 36 year-old man died at the scene.
"A 34 year-old man has been taken to hospital with life changing injures and two others, a 34 year-old woman and a 33 year-old man, were also taken to hospital with minor injuries.
"A 40 year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder, causing Grievous Bodily Harm with intent, death by dangerous driving and assault.
"We would like to speak to any who saw a white Nissan Qashqai in the local area before the incident took place and anyone who was in the pub at the time and has yet to speak to officers."
