
# State Trooper stops domestic assault in car in Lexington

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:23:50+00:00**

Author: **EndPlay**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/state-trooper-stops-domestic-assault-in-car-in-lexington/1004892087)

LEXINGTON, Mass. - A Massachusetts State Trooper stopped a domestic assault Sunday afternoon in Lexington along Route 2 and a man was taken into custody.
Around 1:10 p.m., trooper Michael Sierra was patrolling Route 2 eastbound when he saw a 2009 Nissan Altima on the side of the road near exit 52A. He stopped, walked up to the car and saw a man and two women inside.
The driver exited the car and allegedly lunged at Sierra and assaulted him in the right travel lane. Sierra responded and placed him in custody.
Other troopers, Lexington firefighters and EMS assisted.
An investigation revealed that when Sierra arrived, the 30-year-old suspect, of Lowell, was committing domestic assault against the two women passengers: a 29-year-old friend of Woburn and a 57-year-old relative from Burlington.
The older woman was taken to Lahey Hospital to be evaluated, while the younger woman declined medical attention. She was arrested for an outstanding warrant and taken to Concord State Police.
The suspect was found to be under the influence of drugs and taken to Lahey Hospital in Burlington for a psychiatric evaluation, where he remains as of Monday. State Police is charging him with five counts:
1. Assault and battery with a dangerous weapon2. Assault and battery on a police officer3. Domestic assault and battery4. Operating under the influence of drugs 5. Disorderly conduct. 
