
# Nintendo’s Black Friday bundle includes the outdated Switch model

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:08:14+00:00**

Author: **Nicole Carpenter**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/7/20953318/black-friday-2019-nintendo-switch-mario-kart-8-deluxe-bundle)

Nintendo announced its slate of Black Friday 2019 deals, headlined by a Mario Kart 8 Deluxe bundle that pairs the game with a Nintendo Switch for $299.99. The special pricing begins on Nov. 28 — Thanksgiving, in the U.S. — and is “available while supplies last.”
The only problem? It’s the old Nintendo Switch model (HAC-001) which got replaced by a revised model with better battery life this year. That means this year’s Black Friday deal is for the Switch with worse battery life, ranging from 2.5 to 6.5 hours. The new model nearly doubles battery life thanks to an updated processor.
The Mario Kart 8 Deluxe bundle deal will be available at Amazon, Best Buy, GameStop, Target, and Walmart.
Several Nintendo Switch games are getting a temporary price cut on Nov. 27, too — a $20 drop from their original prices, to $39.99. Here are the games, which will be available at Amazon, Best Buy, GameStop, Target, and Walmart from Nov. 27 to Jan. 1:
Over at Amazon, Best Buy, and Target, Nintendo is offering a 25 percent savings on Joy-Con controllers in gray or neon red and neon blue. The Joy-Cons will be available from Nov. 27 to Nov. 30 for $59.99.
Pokémon players can get 60 percent off a Poké Ball Plus, which is compatible with Pokémon Sword, Pokémon Shield, Pokémon: Let’s Go, Pikachu!, Pokémon: Let’s Go, Eevee!, and Pokémon Go — at Amazon, Best Buy, GameStop, Target, and Walmart, the accessory will be available for $19.99.
Other limited time offers are expected “soon.”
