
# Why Twitter’s Revenues Will Remain Under Pressure In Q4, But Will Jump Next Year

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/05/why-twitters-revenues-will-remain-under-pressure-in-q4-but-will-jump-next-year/)

Twitter’s (NYSE: TWTR) management highlighted how a product malfunction and unusually low demand in July and August were the key reasons why the company missed Q3 revenue expectations. While the product malfunction meaningfully hurt the top line as it led to lack of data for advertising, we believe that the bigger factor was the low demand – something we attribute to the lack of many major events in the quarter. We detail trends in Twitter’s Revenues over the years along with our forecast for 2019 and 2020 in an interactive dashboard.Although Twitter stock tanked over 20% (from around $40 before the earnings announcement to its current level of under $30), we think the markets are overlooking the company’s core strength of a virtual ‘king-maker’. The growth in the company’s user engagement, coupled with its reach make it an indispensable platform to be on for influencers as well as their fans. We also think that Q4 is likely to witness some weakness again due to lack of sufficient events. However, 2020 could be a bumper year for the company with the focus on Presidential election. After all, Twitter benefits from the transactions around an event and not necessarily the spend, and political ads continue to be a focal monitoring area for Twitter.
Twitter makes money from online advertising and from licensing of data. The company reported total revenues of $3 billion in 2018 and reported in two segments:

        Twitter’s Operating Trends Over Recent Years, And Our Expectations For 2019
      
Additional details about what Twitter’s U.S. and International revenues are likely to be in 2020 are available in our interactive dashboard.
 
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
