
# Is Trump's Absence From ASEAN Summit a Sign of Rising US Disinterest in the Region?

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:10:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/analysis/201911051077230174-is-trumps-absence-from-asean-summit-a-sign-of-rising-us-disinterest-in-the-region/)

In response to US actions, seven out of the ten ASEAN member states also downgraded their representation, sending their foreign ministers instead.
A US diplomat has voiced Washington's "extreme" concern over the move by the majority of ASEAN's leaders not to personally attend the special event, calling it an “intentional effort to embarrass” Trump.
So could Trump’s absence from the Bangkok summits be a sign of rising US disinterest in the region? Many experts believe this is the case.
While Dr Batongbacal noted that the US president might be too preoccupied with an ongoing impeachment inquiry against him, he didn’t have a valid excuse not to attend or at least send an appropriate representative.
Dr Le Hong Hiep, a fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in Singapore, for his part, explained that despite Trump missing this year's gathering the US President has invited ASEAN leaders to a special summit in the United States in early 2020.
But, nevertheless, he believes that Trump’s absence should not be exaggerated and should be put into context.
Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Brunei, Cambodia, Myanmar, and the Philippines only sent only their foreign ministers to the ASEAN-US Summit, and only the leaders of Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos attended the meeting.
The countries in the region want the US to maintain its presence, especially amid China’s increasing role, according to Dr Baohui. But Trump’s decision to skip the summit for the second year straight has raised concerns among East Asian nations with many fearing rising US disinterest in the region.
Trump’s special envoy Robert O'Brien delivered a message from the president at the summit reaffirming the United States’ commitment to a strategic partnership with ASEAN and its support of the organisation's central role in the Indo-Pacific region.
But, John Short, a political analyst and professor of Public Policy at the University of Maryland, says that Trump has shown little interest in the region, and the fact that the Trump administration didn't even send a member of the cabinet to the EAS and US-ASEAN summit only proves it.
But despite the latest snub by the US president, it is important for both US and ASEAN states to maintain a strong relationship as they have a “shared long-term objective of providing a counterweight to Chinese power in the region", the political analyst concluded.

        *ASEAN - Association of Southeast Asian Nations
      
The views and opinions expressed in the article do not necessarily reflect those of Sputnik.
