
# 'His dying wasn't a waste' Scot gifted transplant from tragic teen in emotional first meeting with boy's parents

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Louie Smith**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/gb-medalist-gifted-life-saving-20804476)

A man who became an archery medalist after a life-saving transplant from a teenager has described his emotional first meeting with the boy’s parents.
Martin Strang, 47, was born with a congenital heart and spinal condition and later suffered kidney failure.
He had been on dialysis for four years when stranger Toby Hart, 16, tragically died after plunging from a cliff during a family holiday.
The teen’s parents honoured his wish to donate his heart, kidneys, liver and pancreas.
Martin, from Falkirk, who received Toby’s kidney and pancreas, has now become close friends with Toby’s parents Sally and Graham after meeting them on the spur of the moment.
Team GB transplant archery champion Martin said: “I was so nervous, I sat in the car for about 15 minutes beforehand, wearing my Team GB kit, thinking, ‘What do I look like? Are they going to like me?
 
“But Sally, Toby’s mum, put her arms around me and hugged me for about 10 minutes. It was a very emotional meeting.
“Sally says, ‘We’re family now’, which is lovely.”
Knitting shop worker Sally, 53, added: “Ever since Toby donated, I’d been keen to know how the people who received his organs were.What I love about Martin is that he has done so many things since having the ­donation.
“I always think of it as Toby and Martin doing them together, which is just lovely. It’s not just that Toby is living on through other people, it’s that Martin has made the most of what he has been given.
“Toby dying wasn’t a waste. That’s what’s really important.”
Toby, from Warrington, Cheshire, fell 60ft to his death at Cadgworth Cove in ­Cornwall in July 2012 – just five days before his 17th birthday.
He had decided to become an organ donor two years earlier.
 
Sally said: “When he applied for his provisional driving licence, he ticked all the boxes for organ donation and it was a huge help when he died.
“We didn’t even have to think about it. At the hospital we were able to say, ‘You don’t even have to ask because we want him to be an organ donor’.”
Insurance broker Martin says he didn’t have a sporting bone in his body before receiving Toby’s kidney.
But he decided to ­immediately take up a hobby.
Martin added: “I wanted to do something to honour Toby and celebrate getting my life back and just fancied archery as it’s such an inclusive sport.”
Now, he has taken home medals at British, European and World Transplant Games.
He had been put in contact with Sally and Graham via leading transplant charity the Donor Family Network.
 
In May, Martin was travelling from ­Scotland to a Team GB gathering when Toby’s parents asked to him meet on impulse.
At the meeting, Martin discovered he shared many interests with Toby.
He said: “We’ve discovered all sorts of uncanny ­similarities. My first holiday after the ­transplant was to Lake Garda – a place Toby had holidayed.
“Soon after the transplant, I bought a motorbike – unaware that Toby had bought a moped just before he died.
 When I asked, ‘Out of interest, did Toby ever do archery?’, they looked at each other and said he’d done a course as a child.
“I thought, ‘This is just crazy’. To get a gift like this is amazing. But to have so many coincidences with your donor is even more amazing.”
Martin wears an archery armguard bearing Toby’s name, while his quiver belt is inscribed with the words: “For the needs of the many – in honour of Toby.”
Martin added: “I’ve told the family, ‘It’s Toby doing this – not me’. Every time I pick a bow up I’m thinking of him.
“I’m getting word out there to raise awareness of the importance of organ ­donation and encourage people to tell their families about their wishes.”
