
# Billy Joe Saunders falls for hustle ahead of appearance on KSI vs Logan Paul undercard

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/billy-joe-saunders-falls-hustle-20829987)

Jet-lagged Billy Joe Saunders sleepwalked dozily into an American hustle after landing in Los Angeles.
The super-middleweight world champion arrived in California less than a week before the first defence of his title.
He takes on the unknown Marcelo Esteban Coceres on Saturday looking to add legitimacy to the YouTube rematch between KSI and Logan Paul.
But as a fighter renowned for his sharp mind in the ring, Saunders uncharacteristically let his guard down on the streets of Hollywood.
“I was hustled out of $200,” he said. “Some kids came up to us selling candy and I felt sorry for them.
“There were four of them, so I asked my mate to change some money up.
“Then one of them says, ‘You want change? I've got change’, and pulls out a wad of notes, about $2,000, so I just thought, ‘F*** it, you had me’, and I gave it to them.
“It's very different here, it’s my first time in LA and it’s a bit strange.”
Saunders, 30, became a two-weight world champion in May when he outpointed Shefat Sufi at Stevenage’s football ground.
Argentina’s Coceres brings an unbeaten record to the Staples Center but little else.
And
as Saunders targets fights with Gennady Golovkin and Canelo Alvarez next year, his toughest opponent this weekend may be exhaustion.
“I'm walking around like a zombie, I'm nodding off to sleep but hopefully it will be different on fight night,” he said.
“You’ve got the play the hand you’re dealt and there are no excuses from me, I'm here, I'm ready and I'm fit.
“I've got to stay professional and get in the ring awake and hopefully get out awake.
“All I can do is hopefully put on a masterclass.”
