
# Welsh Rockers Stereophonics Hit No. 1 For The Seventh Time In The U.K. With New Album ‘Kind’

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Hugh McIntyre**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2019/11/01/welsh-rockers-stereophonics-hit-no-1-for-the-seventh-time-in-the-uk-with-new-album-kind/)

Welsh rock band Stereophonics are very familiar with the top spot on the U.K. albums chart, and now they’ve landed yet another leader in the country. The group’s new studio effort Kind debuts at No. 1 on the ranking, granting them yet another champion.Kind is Stereophonics’ seventh chart-topper in the U.K., giving them one of the greatest accumulations of owners in the nation. The title opens at No. 1 thanks to 30,000 equivalent units shifted.
The band first reached the highest spot on the list 20 years ago with their sophomore release Performance and Cocktails, which kicked off an incredible winning streak. The group’s next five albums—Just Enough Education to Perform, You Gotta Go There to Come Back, Language. Sex. Violence. Other? and Pull the Pin—all made their way to the throne for at least one week. A few years later, they collected their sixth chart owner, Keep the Village Alive. 
In addition to the band’s seven No. 1s, four other Stereophonics titles have broken into the top 10, including a compilation of some of their most beloved tracks. Only one album from the group, 2009’s Keep Calm and Carry On, failed to enter the region, as it peaked at No. 11. 
Kind has so far produced a pair of singles, “Fly Like an Eagle” and “Bust This Town,” though neither of them have charted. 
Impressively, the new Stereophonics album beats new releases by the likes of Kanye West and James Blunt to the top of the chart this week.
