
# Tottenham to host first rugby league match as Australia return to England

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gareth Walker, https://www.facebook.com/GarethWalkerMirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-league/kangaroos-tour-dates-venues-confirmed-20830186)

Rugby league will be played at Tottenham Hotspur’s new stadium for the first time when Australia take on England next November.
The match will be the culmination of a three-test series that also takes in games at Bolton and Leeds, with all three broadcast live by the BBC.
The three-match series kicks off at the University of Bolton Stadium on Saturday 31 October (kick-off 2.30pm), with the second match being staged at Elland Road, Leeds, a week later (Saturday 7 November, 2.30pm).
The series then finishes at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in London on Saturday 14 November (5.30pm).
It is the Kangaroos’ first visit to these shores since 2016’s Four Nations series, won by Australia who defeated England 36-18 at London’s Olympic Stadium. And the Bolton match will be the first between the two countries since the 2017 World Cup Final, which Australia won 6-0 in Brisbane.
An Ashes series has not taken place since 2003, when the Kangaroos edged all three tests in the closing stages against David Waite’s Great Britain.
RFL chief executive, Ralph Rimmer, said: “We are thrilled to be welcoming Australia back to this country for the first time since 2016. International Rugby League is the pinnacle of our game and some of the best rugby players on the planet will be involved.
“We hope the venues we have chosen, with a split between Lancashire, Yorkshire and London, will be popular both with regular rugby league supporters and also the broader sporting public. The University of Bolton Stadium and Elland Road have both staged successful Rugby League events in recent years, and it’s exciting for us to be taking a first fixture to the stunning Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in London.
“England were just an ankle tap away from taking the 2017 World Cup Final against Australia into extra time and last year’s success against New Zealand suggests that this will be a series not to be missed.”
