
# City turns to Ottawa as uncertainty swirls around Green Line funding

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:40:56+00:00**

Author: **Meghan Potkins, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/city-turns-to-ottawa-as-uncertainty-swirls-around-green-line-funding)

With the Alberta government seeking to include a 90-day cancellation clause on its $1.53 billion in Green Line funding, the city is turning to the federal government for help to ensure construction of the mega-project proceeds as planned.
In legislation tabled Monday, the Kenney government is seeking the authority to terminate funding for the north-south transit line “without cause” and with just 90 days’ notice to the City of Calgary. Transportation Minister Ric McIver has characterized the language in Bill 20 as “standard” for provincial contract agreements, but city officials disagree, warning the clause could escalate contracting costs.
“I think everyone wants to get this project built,” Mayor Naheed Nenshi said in response to the proposed legislation. “I hope everyone wants to get this project built, and I will take the provincial government at their word that they want to build the project and they’re not trying to kill it through back-door means.”
In addition to the proposed clause, the province’s decision to cut $480 million in Green Line funding over the next four years could also result in higher financing costs or delays to the construction timeline, say city officials.
Nenshi said the city has begun talks with Ottawa seeking more “flexibility” on the federal portion of funding for the Green Line. Typically, the Government of Canada provides funding at the back-end of projects, reimbursing up to 40 per cent of costs once receipts are submitted.
However, with construction on the $4.9-billion LRT line scheduled to begin in 2021, the city is hoping the federal government will release a portion of its $1.53-billion in funding sooner.
If Ottawa can’t assist, Nenshi said it would be “almost impossible, if not impossible” for the project to proceed as planned, since the city would be forced to borrow significant amounts to begin construction.
“I think that’s too much interest, it’s too much borrowing,” said Nenshi. “Ultimately, if the federal government’s timeline doesn’t shift and the province stays on their timeline, then one of the options before us is we just delay.”
Nenshi said the city learned about the risk of provincial funding delays with the West LRT project, where Calgary paid approximately $150 million in interest costs after funding that was expected to flow in five years took nearly 15 years to materialize.
“This project is five times that size,” said Nenshi. “So city council has to decide (if) they going to take a risk at what could be a half-a-billion dollars in interest that they would have to pay, and that’s very challenging.”
Green Line committee chair Coun. Shane Keating said the provincial changes may also require the city to divide the project into separate contracts, with the city and federal government potentially combining forces on a $3-billion chunk of the line, with the remainder dependent on provincial funding in future years.
“I believe it’s a project that’s still going to go ahead but it’s going to see some changes for sure and it’s just going to make it that much more difficult,” said Keating.
“Will it affect the price, having these different segments of the contract? Is it going to reduce the number of corporations willing to bid? Those are all things we’ll have to see, but at this point, I don’t know.”
Provincial officials say they remain committed to the project and meetings began Friday between bureaucrats and the city’s Green Line team to discuss details of the budget and what it could mean for construction timelines.
More details could be released about potential solutions for funding the LRT project at the Nov. 15 meeting of the Green Line committee.
mpotkins@postmedia.comTwitter: @mpotkins
