
# England vs South Africa free live stream: Watch Rugby World Cup Final for free

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/england-vs-south-africa-free-20786937)

England's day with destiny has arrived as they take on South Africa in the Rugby World Cup Final.
Eddie Jones' men produced a spectacular performance to see themselves past New Zealand in the semi-finals, but can they find that intensity again?
The Red Rose are unchanged for the final - the first time Jones has named an identical starting line-up for around three years.
But will it be enough to see themselves past South Africa and right the wrongs of the 2007 final?
Here is all you need to know ahead of the match...
Saturday November 2.
Kick-off, for those in the UK, will be at 9am.
For those in the UK, the Rugby World Cup Final will again be shown on ITV.
Coverage of the match will begin from 7am, with full build-up.
The match will be free to be live streamed, providing that you are based in the UK.
ITV can be streamed on their website if you click on the 'watch live' tab on their homepage.
The full coverage will be available on there.
Starting: Elliot Daly; Anthony Watson, Manu Tuilagi, Owen Farrell, Jonny May, George Ford, Ben Youngs; Mako Vunipola, Jamie George, Kyle Sinckler, Maro Itoje, Courtney Lawes, Tom Curry, Sam Underhill, Billy Vunipola
Replacements:  Luke Cowan-Dickie, Joe Marler, Dan Cole, George Kruis, Mark Wilson, Ben Spencer, Henry Slade, Jonathan Joseph
Starting : Willie Le Roux, Cheslin Kolbe, Lukhanyo Am, Damian de Allende, Makazole Mapimpi, Handre Pollard, Faf de Klerk, Duane Vermeulen, Pieter-Steph Du Toit, Siya Kolisi, Lood de Jager, Eben Etzebeth, Frans Malherbe, Mbongeni Mbonambi, Tendai Mtawarira
Replacements: Malcolm Marx, Steven Kitshoff, Vincent Koch, RG Snyman, Franco Mostert, Francois Louw, Herschel Jantjies, Frans Steyn.

        Odds courtesy of ThePools.com
      

        Buy the official programme for the Rugby World Cup final for just £10 at reachsportshop.com
      
