
# Henry Golding Admits He Used To Interview Harry Potter Stars Like Daniel Radcliffe Before He Got Famous

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:20:48+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2484215/henry-golding-admits-he-used-to-interview-harry-potter-stars-like-daniel-radcliffe-before-he-got-famous)

Written By
Henry Golding is certainly becoming an “it” guy in Hollywood, having appeared in a couple of notable features recently, including Crazy Rich Asians and A Simple Favor. Yet acting is only the latest in a long line of jobs he’s held over the years. In fact, he recently revealed he was once a red carpet reporter covering projects like the Harry Potter films starring Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint.
During a recent episode of The Late Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, Fallon and Henry Golding got to talking about the myriad jobs he had before becoming an actor. One of them involved interviewing celebrities on the red carpet, and he told a fun story about how he felt interviewing a "young" Daniel Radcliffe before he himself was famous.
Elaborating on what he used to do before he became an actor, he talked a little bit about talking his way from being a hairdresser into being a presenter, as well as touching base about how he himself used to be on the other side of the carpet, including interviewing the cast of big franchises such as Harry Potter.  He said:
I always sort of love hearing about what celebrities did back before they were idolized by people around the world. The more mundane the previous job, the more interesting it usually is to me. A lot of times celebrities are put onto a sort of pedestal by the public, but stories like these go a long way to humanize people we also love seeing playing characters on the big screen. In the past, Henry Golding has talked about struggling with getting famous after so much time as an anonymous human, and this story ties right in.
If you’d like to take a look at the full interview, you can do so below. Spoiler alert: he also talks about James Bond.
