
# Asus delivers Android 10 update to Zenfone 6 and 6Z - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:17:18+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/asus-delivers-android-10-update-to-zenfone-6-and-6z/)

Asus delivers Android 10 update to Zenfone 6 and 6Z5 (100%) 1 vote
The latest flagship series of the ASUS range, the ZenFone 6, has started receiving the first stable version of ZenUI 6 based on Android 10.
The distribution of the new OTA update to the Zenfone 6 and 6Z has only started in the past few hours. Reaching a limited number of devices sold in Canada, the United States and India. The roll-out in other countries has not yet started. But we can confirm that the final firmware is currently under test and that it should not be too long before a public release.
The new features onboard the new release 17.1810.1910.63 include support for system updates via Google Play. Alongside with new full-screen navigation gestures, integration of the dark theme of Android 10 and more.
For more information, we inform you that a link to download the complete firmware to be installed manually can be found in this link (Download). We recall that the manual installation of files not distributed via official channels represents a risky operation.
Google released Android 10 for the Pixel smartphones just 2 months ago. Essential, as always, immediately followed suit with an update for the Essential Phone. ASUS may not have been the fastest to release an Android 10 update, but they’ve now proven their commitment to software updates. We look forward to the upcoming update for the ZenFone 5Z and the ROG Phone II.
