
# Energy bills: how to save money – and fight the climate crisis

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:00:28+00:00**

Author: **Miles Brignall**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/money/2019/nov/02/energy-bills-how-to-save-money-and-fight-the-climate-crisis)


        What can you do to keep warm and protect the environment while also lowering your costs?
      

        Cost: £350 or lessPotential saving: £15-£135 a year, depending on existing insulation level
      
Most householders are aware that they need it, and in most cases they will have some. But when did you last pop up into the loft to check your insulation?
James Higgins, a spokesman for the National Insulation Association, says you should have a depth of 27cm for glass wool – the most common form of loft insulation. Anything less than that and it’s time for an upgrade. A professional installation typically costs £350, although you can do it yourself for less. Don’t be tempted to tamp it down, as this impedes its effectiveness.
For hard-to-get-to loft spaces, consider spray-in insulation, and if you are converting a loft, insulate it to the max, Higgins says.

        Cost: £700-£1,000Potential saving: £70 a year
      
Older homes, typically those built from the 1930s to the 1950s, are most likely to have suspended timber floors: if you have air bricks or ventilation bricks on your outside walls, you probably have these. Such floors can be insulated by lifting the boards and laying wool insulation supported by netting between the joists. Higgins says he is about to get this done in his home. It typically costs £700-£1,000 and will save you £40 to £70 a year in the resulting lower heating bills.
A cheaper alternative is just to fill any gaps between floorboards that let cold air in. In tests conducted by the Guardian, StopGap sealant was found to be the best overall product. It costs £25 for 40 metres and will seal cracks 1mm to 8mm wide. You’ll notice a significant difference in temperature.

        Cost: £200 or DIYPotential
         saving: £40 a year
      
Trying to cut out all cold drafts around an older house can become an obsession. It’s better to focus on the big wins.
Unused open fireplaces need a blocking balloon or a £20 Chimney Sheep. Catflaps, old extractor fans and letter boxes leak cold air and need to be sealed. A thermal lining on curtains will really make a difference; minimalists could consider thermal blinds instead. Cheap sticky-back foam door seals can work well.
The Energy Saving Trust says a professional will charge £200 or so to draught-proof your home. If you have an internal door to the garage that keeps getting left open, how about an automatic closer?
Generally, double glazing rarely makes financial sense as the installation costs dwarf the typical £70 a year saving through lower energy bills. The house will feel much more comfortable, though.

        Cost: £2-£80Potential saving 
        £200 a year
      
No, this isn’t going to improve your heating, but is an essential change all households should make. If you are still using old-style 100-watt bulbs – or even worse, energy-guzzling halogens – you could easily be throwing away over £200 a year on unnecessarily high electricity bills.
The latest LED bulbs typically operate at 4-9 watts, a tiny fraction of the bulbs they replace. Once £20 each, they have collapsed in price in the last few years, making this a no-brainer. Screwfix offers some of thecheapest LEDs and they now cost £2 to £3 each, depending on the fitting. Fit them across your home and you will slash your electricity use. Someone using 40 LED bulbs for an average of 2.7 hours a day – the Energy Saving Trust’s typical use figure – will spend around £23 annually – compared with £287 for halogens. Just take out the old bulbs and put in the new one; anyone can do it. This is one of the cheapest, easiest green measures you can introduce.

        Cost: £200Potential
         saving: £70-£100 a year
      
Another measure that really delivers lower energy usage – with a quick payback time. British Gas’s Hive and Google’s Nest are the big two. In effect they turn your smartphone into your heating controller. Working late or on an unplanned trip to the cinema? Your heating can be turned down or off, remotely. You can set it to come on when you are in the home.
“It allows you to stop heating your home when you are not there – wasting energy and money,” says Higgins, who has a Hive system. Hive starts at £125 for British Gas reward members, or £200 for its energy customers. You get a free Amazon Echo Dot, which can be used to change your thermostat. Most people will require an engineer visit to install these systems. If you fancy your DIY skills, the £159 Google Nest Thermostat E is a self-install project. Many people who have these smart systems love them and say they would never go back.

        Cost: £200Potential
         saving: £100 a year
      
If you are still running a 20 or 30-year-old fridge or freezer, be aware that it uses more electricity in 5 to 10 weeks than one of the latest A++ models will use all year. You might think you are doing the environmentally right thing by not buying a new one but, arguably, this is the one item worth changing whether you need a new one or not.
A 30-year-old fridge-freezer consumes more than 23kWh per week compared with 4.3kWh per week if you use a new energy-efficient model. This means you could save £100 to £140 a year in reduced electricity usage – just by plugging in a new fridge. New A++ rated, family-sized fridges start at around £200. After two years you will have saved a load of carbon, and it will have paid for itself.

        Cost: £2,500Potential
         saving: £90-£160 a year
      
Unless your old boiler is unreliable or broken, there’s a strong case not to replace it with a more efficient model. In the last decade, lots of households ripped out perfectly good boilers only to see their gas bills fall by nowhere near the amount claimed by British Gas and others. They also saw maintenance bills rise and in some cases their new, more technically complex combi boiler was less reliable than their old one.
When the GreenAge website ran the figures back in 2013, it estimated that a typical household would save around £1,088 over the 15 years of a new boiler’s life expectancy – if you look at in purely financial terms. An above average usage household would save almost £2,000 over the 15 years – less than the £2,500 installation cost. These figures still apply today. But the calculation changes if you use your boiler considerably more than average. Elderly people who have the central heating on from September to June will make a carbon and financial saving by installing a new combi, but not by as much as the gas firms may try to have you believe.
