
# Canelo Alvarez vs. Sergey Kovalev: Fight Odds, Undercard, Predictions And How To Watch

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Peter Kahn**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/peterkahn/2019/11/02/canelo-alvarez-vs-sergey-kovalev-fight-odds-undercard-predictions-and-how-to-watch/)


        
          This story was written in collaboration with
        
        
           Forbes Finds
        
        
          . Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
        
      
One of the most anticipated fights of the year is taking place at the MGM Grand Garden Arena on Saturday, November 2 as Canelo Alvarez attempts to win a world title in a fourth weight division as he takes on current WBO light heavyweight champion, Sergey Kovalev.
The fight promoted by Oscar De La Hoya’s Golden Boy Promotions will be streamed live on DAZN at 9:00 p.m. and provides both fighters with an opportunity to put an exclamation point on their hall of fame careers.
According to the boxing odds at BetOnline, Canelo Alvarez is a -360 favorite, while Sergey Kovalev is a +300 underdog. While Alvarez is a big favorite, the line over the past few days has been moving in Kovalev’s favor. While the moneyline doesn’t provide a lot of line value for sports bettors, especially considering the average sports bettor bets between $50 and $100, the real value is with the prop bets. I recently provided a bettor’s guide for Canelo vs. Kovalev where you can find wagers that provide a lot of value.
I published two stories this week with both keys to victory for Canelo and keys to victory for Kovalev, however, I’ve made up mind as to how I feel this fight will end. While I feel that Kovalev will start off trying to work behind his jab, eventually, Canelo’s pressure and body work inside will take its toll on Kovalev. While I expect Kovalev will be in the fight the first three or four rounds—most likely winning the first couple of rounds—Canelo’s commitment to the body and pressure will eventually make Kovalev wilt.
Kovalev’s height and reach won’t bother Canelo as he had no issue with Julio Cesar Chavez Jr, Rocky Fielding and Daniel Jacobs—all of whom had physical advantages in height, weight and reach going into their respective fights. Canelo’s granite chin will also allow him to walk through whatever Kovalev has to offer and I think that Kovalev’s confidence will diminish as the fight goes on.
So I’m looking at a Canelo stoppage anywhere from rounds eight and nine. If Kovalev’s hall of fame trainer, Buddy McGirt, is able to squeeze a couple of extra rounds out of Kovalev, I still see Canelo’s body work and relentless pressure getting the TKO or KO stoppage before the final bell. I can even see McGirt calling the fight with Kovalev on his stool during rounds 10 through 12, letting his fighter save face.
The undercard for the Canelo vs. Kovalev live stream on DAZN will begin at 9 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 2. The main card to follow.
Canelo Alvarez vs. Sergey Kovalev (WBO Light Heavyweight title)
Ryan Garcia vs. Romero Duno Lightweight
Seniesa Estrada vs. Marlen Esparza (Women's WBA Interim Flyweight)
Blair Cobbs vs. Carlos Ortiz Welterweight
Evan Holyfield vs. Nick Winstead Jr. Middleweight
Bakhram Murtazaliev vs. Jorge Fortea Jr. Middleweight
Tristan Kalkreuth vs. Twon Smith Cruiserweight
Meiirim Nursultanov vs. Cristian OlivasMiddleweight
