
# Indian football has progressed a lot and everybody has played their part, believes Robin Singh

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:32:09+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/01/indian-football-has-progressed-a-lot-and-everybody-has-played-their-part-believes-robin-singh?utm_medium=rss)


        Indian football has achieved new highs in the last few years and striker Robin Singh believes everyone from former coach Stephen Constantine to domestic leagues such as ISL and I-league has played important roles. Robin stated that Igor Stimac’s football will gradually bring in results for the team.
      
In the last few years, the Indian football team has picked up steam and cracked the top-100 in the football rankings while putting up some commendable performances in the Asia Cup. There has been a change in the coaching setup as well with former Croatia manager Igor Stimac replacing Stephen Constantine as the head coach of the team. Robin Singh has also played his part in the rise of Indian football by scoring 5 goals for the Blue Tigers in 30 matches and the striker is a regular on the domestic circuit as well. 
“It has progressed a lot and everybody has played its part from Stephen Constantine to the I-League to the ISL. Everyone has played its part to take Indian football higher and this shows in our ranking as well,” Robin said to Hindustan Times.
Constantine was integral to India’s success for the past few years. Now Igor Stimac as the head coach has tried to implement a new style of football which Robin is eager to be a part of by playing instead of watching from the sidelines.
“I have been lucky to watch them play live. The football that Stimac wants India to play is great. The players love it and at the end of the day, you need your players to associate with the kind of football you want. The players like the way Stimac wants us to play and when I watch them I want to be involved. I am gutted to be sitting outside. I want to be training with the boys and I want to play for the nation. I like what he is doing and I hope in the coming months I am part of the setup.”
India ground out a draw against Bangladesh in a World Cup qualifier recently at the Salt Lake Stadium due to Adil Khan’s equalizer in the 88th minute. Results have not been kind to Stimac even though his style of football is desirable, but Robin believes India is on the right track and the kind of football Stimac wants the players to play will bring results gradually.
“See, progress takes time. It’s not going to happen overnight. We have moved up the rank, Constantine played its part, Stimac is playing his part and the results will follow soon. I am sure it is just a matter of time before results follow suit. Stimac coming in has brought positivity to the camp and a new style of football and it’s only a matter of time. Hats off to Bangladesh as they sat with just two men and defended and played on counter-attacks. That also shows the kind of respect Bangladesh has for India. They knew we are a good side, they knew we can score goals. On the day Bangladesh worked hard and got the result,” he said. 
The recent I league, AIFF and ISL standoff has troubled the heads of football in the country and the 29-year-old striker preferred to leave the matter in the hands of the people in charge, explaining that he just wants Indian football to grow and “its always better to have a plan.”
