
# Arsenal Star: Ozil Is Unhappy At The Minute

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:00:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/arsenal-star-ozil-is-unhappy-at-the-minute/666555)

Mesut Ozil returned to action for Arsenal earlier this week, but one of his teammates claims the German midfielder is still unhappy at the moment.

        
          Read: Arsenal's Stance On Mourinho Revealed?
        
      
Before Wednesday's loss to Liverpool in the Carabao Cup roun of 16, Ozil was reportedly frozen out by Unai Emery after not being included in a number of match-day squads.
Ozil returned in Wednesday's penalty shoot-out defeat to Arsenal and made a decent impact going forward before he was replaced just after the hour mark.
Sead Kolasinac insists his teammate is doing everything he can in training and feels the team will benefit with his inclusion in the upcoming matches.
"He is a bit unhappy at the minute but you would never see that in his training. He is doing everything he can. He is doing extra sessions to make sure he is at the level he needs to be," Kolasincac said, as per the Mirror.
"Mesut is Mesut. He has got a lot of special qualities.
"For example, the opposing team might put two players on him rather than one - which creates a lot of space for others. That makes a real difference on the pitch and in the game.
"Everyone knows the quality he has, we have seen it. He is one of the top players in Europe and I think he can achieve a lot and really help the team further when he's back."

        
          Read: Liverpool Eliminate Arsenal After 10-Goal Thriller
        
      
