
# Smith: If you want to make real cuts, chop public sector overtime

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:00:32+00:00**

Author: **Danielle Smith**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/columnists/smith-if-you-want-to-make-real-cuts-chop-public-sector-overtime)

I’m prepared to cut the government of Alberta a lot of slack in its first steps toward balancing the budget. I will not be moaning about any of the cuts in the budget. I reserve the right to bring back certain issues for discussion when we aren’t broke (like re-indexing income tax brackets). But for now, I say bravo to the premier and his finance minister for charting a path to balance in four years. We will have a clear target to judge the UCP in the next election.
My concern is that they are not going far enough fast enough and, by exempting health and education from the knife, they aren’t looking for savings in the right places.
Here’s an example. A battle is taking shape with the Alberta Union of Provincial Employees lead by the formidable Guy Smith. The government wants a two per cent wage rollback, the AUPE wants a 7.85 per cent wage increase. They are both wrong.
The AUPE is wrong because it is absurd to think that any employee group is going to get anything more than an inflationary increase in the middle of this mess. But the government is wrong because some AUPE workers should get a higher wage cut than others.
The Canadian Taxpayers Federation used access to information requests to find out how much various government workers make in Alberta, compared with Ontario and the other western provinces. They found, for instance, that judicial clerks and transport officers make less than the average elsewhere. They probably deserve an increase when we can afford it. Occupational Health and Safety officers, meanwhile, make 34 per cent more than in other provinces. They should be rolled back much more than two per cent.  
But there is an even bigger problem in collective agreements that needs addressing. That’s the issue of overtime pay.
In the private sector world, salaried employees are often asked to work extra hours without extra pay. If overtime is paid, it is only after an employee has worked 40 hours in the week, and most of the time the hours are simply banked and taken as time off at a mutually agreed upon time. Any manager worth their salt is expected to keep overtime costs as low as possible.
That is not the case at Alberta Health Services, where absurd provisions in collective agreements have allowed nurses to work the system to their advantage and get paid tens of thousands of dollars in additional overtime pay.
Whistleblower “Tim” was kind enough to email me to explain how it works. For registered nurses, the duty roster for “on-call duty” has to be posted 12 weeks in advance. If an employer changes the on-call period they have to give 14 days’ notice, otherwise they have to pay the employee double time (even if they haven’t put in 40 hours that week). When a regular or temporary employee who is not on-call is called and required to report to work, they are also deemed to be working overtime and paid at double time (again even if they haven’t put in 40 hours that week.) Ever wonder why there are so many casual and part-time RNs? It’s because overtime allows them to make full-time pay working part-time hours.
The maximum compensation for a registered nurse on an hourly basis is $58.81, which translates into an annual wage of $112,974. (According to the Canadian Taxpayers Federation that is already 12.4 per cent higher than the average in Ontario and other western provinces.)
The AHS sunshine list reports all employees in 2018 who earned more than $129,800. In theory, if the top nurse is paid $112,974, there shouldn’t be any nurses on this list, right?
But in 2018 alone there were 513 registered nurses making more than $129,800. The top paid RN in 2018 made $217,713. That means she is probably making more in overtime pay than she is in regular pay. Granted, that is an extreme example. But there are 30,000 RNs in Alberta — how many of them are working overtime on a routine basis and getting paid an extra $10,000, $20,000 or $30,000 a year? How many hundreds of millions of dollars is this costing taxpayers?
A two per cent wage cut will not fix this problem.
If the government wants to find out why the Alberta public sector costs so much, it should ask every manager to report on how much overtime they paid their staff last year. That’s the place to start the cuts.

        Danielle Smith can be reached at danielle@770chqr.com
      
