
# Great Britain boss Wayne Bennett lifts lid on controversial selections and coaching future

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Julie Stott**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-league/wayne-bennett-lifts-lid-controversial-20819697)

Wayne Bennett has defended his controversial decision to name six half-backs in his Great Britain squad.
It has left the Lions light in other areas and backfired following tour-ending injuries to three-quarters Oliver Gildart and Ryan Hall.
But the Lions coach insists it was a deliberate risk that needed taking ahead of England's World Cup campaign in 2021. He has also promised that all the unused players will feature against Papua New Guinea next week.
And he revealed that he wants to stay on as England coach for next year’s Series against Australia and the following year’s World Cup.
He said: “My contract is up at the end of this series and I would like to stay on but it is not up to me to make that decision.
“I’m not worried about that part, I’m just worried about making sure we have a strong squad for the long term future.”
 
Half-backs Jackson Hastings and Gareth Widdop have got the nod for the third game running for Saturday’s Test with New Zealand. But Bennett said it was important he also brought Blake Austin, George Williams, Jonny Lomax and Jake Trueman on tour.
The Aussie, who is using Lomax at full-back, said: “I did it deliberately because I wanted to see them all because it is such a vital position going forward. All the great teams have a permanent half-back, five-eighth (stand-off) combination and that is where you want to be.
“I didn’t want us going into the series against Australia next year trialling players. It is too close to the World Cup for that.
“I thought it was a risk worth taking here to find out what they all bring and I have not been disappointed in what we have done. It is not the ideal selection procedure but it is with a view to the next couple of years.”
Austin, Williams and Trueman will all feature in the final game of the four-match tour in Port Moresby next week.
Bennett added: “By that stage we will know where we are with Hastings and Widdop. The one constant we have had since I took over is Josh Hodgson at hooker, with Daryl Clark and James Roby (currently injured).
“We are now trying to get that constant in the halves in this series, but Papua New Guinea gives me chance to see the others play. I am not going to bring these boys away for a month, away from their families, and not play them.”
Great Britain could have taken up an option to fly in a replacement player, following the serious injuries to Gildart and Hall.
But Bennett said: “I did not see the point of bringing someone out from England on Monday to play Saturday when he has not trained with us. I am happy to give these boys opportunities and see what we have got going forward.”
Wigan full-back Zak Hardaker has played in the centres in the opening defeats by Tonga and New Zealand but will switch to the wing this week.
Warrington back rower Jack Hughes will make his Lions debut in the centre, a position he has covered before at club level.
Lions team: Lomax; Hardaker, Connor, Hughes, McGillvary; Widdop, Hastings; Hill, Hodgson, Burgess, Bateman, Whitehead, Graham. Subs: Clark, Walmsley, Philbin, Jones.
