
# Public accounts: Highest-paid public servants, most-pampered highways, MLA spending

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:58:25+00:00**

Author: **Arthur White-Crummey**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/saskatchewan/public-accounts-highest-paid-public-servants-most-pampered-highways-mla-spending)

Saskatchewan’s 2018-19 public accounts are now in the public sphere, revealing how much the provincial government paid for services and which public servants took home the most money over the past fiscal year.
The province’s chief forensic pathologist was again the highest-paid employee on the list, with compensation totalling just over $400,000. Alanna Koch, who was deputy minister to the premier before she departed to contest the Saskatchewan Party leadership, came second — though most of that came from a nearly $350,000 severance package.
***
Here’s the list of Saskatchewan government employees and provincial court judges* with the highest compensation in 2018-19:
Shaun Ladham, chief forensic pathologist, Saskatchewan Coroners Service — $400,680
Alanna Koch, former deputy minister to the premier, Executive Council — $358,888
Robert Wihlidal, former assistant deputy minister, ministry of social services  — $342,144
Saqib Shahab, chief medical health officer, ministry of health — $330,453
James Plemel, chief judge of Saskatchewan Provincial Court — $321,977
Dr. Andreea Nistor, forensic pathologist, Saskatchewan Coroners Service — $320,244
The next 42 names on the list are almost all judges, who make about $300,000. Wedged in amongst them is Denise Werker, deputy chief medical health officer, ministry of health — $300,243
Rupen Pandya, deputy minister, ministry of finance — $268,427
Max Hendricks, deputy minister, ministry of health — $256,446
Dr. Peter Gorman, medical consultant, ministry of health — $254,446
*Although judges’ salaries are paid by the provincial government, judges are not government employees, as the judiciary is a separate and independent branch of government and have their salaries determined through independent commissions. Judges are not hired, do not negotiate their salaries, and cannot be terminated by the government.
***
Publics accounts also detail which Saskatchewan highways got the most attention in 2018-19. The ministry of highways and infrastructure spent a total of $731,782,047 on preserving or enhancing highways over that fiscal year. Here’s the list of which ones got the biggest investments.
Highway 1 — $311,692,659
Highway 11 — $45,201,180
Highway 4 — $35,951,610
Highway 7 — $28,707,844
Highway 12 — $16,325,447
Highway 6 — $15,983,789
***
Every member of the legislative assembly got paid $96,183 simply for being an MLA last fiscal year. But some got a top-up for serving as a minister or for additional duties.
Scott Moe got an additional $84,868 for being premier. Ministers each received $48,969 for their role, while education minister Gord Wyant got $4,469 more for serving as deputy premier.
Speaker Mark Docherty also saw another $48,969 added to his MLA compensation, as did Ryan Meili for serving as leader of the opposition.
Former premier Brad Wall received a transitional allowance of $77,348 upon his departure.
Members also report expenses for travel, communications, constituency assistants and other costs. Here is a list of who spent the most in their capacities as MLAs (rather than ministers). Not surprisingly, the members representing Saskatchewan’s two northernmost constituencies racked up the highest expenses, mostly due to travel.
Buckley Belanger, NDP, Athabasca — $227,916
Doyle Vermette, NDP, Cumberland — $204,435
Randy Weekes, SP, Biggar-Sask Valley — $198,318
Nicole Rancourt, NDP, Prince Albert Northcote — $181,481
Danielle Chartier, NDP, Saskatoon Riversdale — $178,295
Steven Bonk, SP, Moosomin — $173,535
Delbert Kirsch, SP, Batoche — $171,261
Eric Olauson, SP, Saskatoon University — $169,130
David Forbes, NDP Saskatoon Centre — $168,863
David Buckingham, SP, Saskatoon Westview — $168,798
