
# Charlie Nicholas makes Celtic vs Rangers call as he delivers Betfred Cup prediction

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:38:49+00:00**

Author: **Record Sport Online**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/charlie-nicholas-makes-celtic-vs-20813766)

Former Celtic striker Charlie Nicholas can’t wait for his old team and Rangers to meet at Hampden.
The two Glasgow giants will face off at the National Stadium in the Betfred Cup Final on December 8 for the chance to win the first silverware of the season.
Nicholas doesn’t see much between the sides – but he reckons Celtic will edge out Rangers .
He knows the situation could change in the four weeks between now and the showdown but has explained why he feels Neil Lennon’s side will win their 10th straight trophy.
The 57-year-old, writing in his Daily Star column, said: "The Betfred Cup Final between Rangers and Celtic should be some game.
"It was hardly a surprise to see Celtic and Rangers cruise through their semi-finals against Hibs and Hearts.
"As is stands, the final looks a very evenly-matched encounter.
"There doesn't seem to be much between either side and they are both in good form.
 
"We just have to wait and see what the next few weeks bring, in terms of injuries, form and their European involvement.
"If I was to have to make a call on it right now I would go Celtic.
"I would only edge towards them because I think they have more strength in depth.
"It really is a meeting of two giants.
"It is also the chance for Steven Gerrard to pick up his first silverware although the league is the prize he really craves."
Rangers travel to face Aberdeen four days before the Hampden showpiece while Celtic are at home to Hamilton.
