
# Eat, Sip, Save 2019: four all-American food deals to check out

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:10:00+00:00**

Author: **Amy Mathieson**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/restaurants/421538-eat-sip-save-2019-four-all-american-food-deals-to-check-out)

We love a top value meal – and if you do too, it’s time to check out Time Out Dubai’s Eat, Sip, Save campaign.Throughout November, we’ve teamed up with some of Dubai’s best restaurants to lay on some amazing offers.Eat, Sip, Save is taking place across Dubai restaurants for 30 days, running until November 30.Looking for some all-American grub? Check out our top four picks for US food to dig into this month, for less.For a full list of Eat, Sip, Save offers, click here.Burger & LobsterYou know the drill, this Dubai restaurant does what it says on the proverbial tin. And this month if you buy any burger and a house drink, you’ll get the whole thing for Dhs99. All burgers (apart from the mighty Beast) are included in the deal, so get your chops around that. Or if you’re dining with an equally peckish diner, opt for any burger meal and you’ll get one 6oz classic burger sandwich absolutely free. Pass us that ketchup, it’s going to get messy.Open Sat-Wed noon-midnight, Thu-Fri noon-2am. Burj Daman Building, DIFC (04 514 8838).Original Wings & RingsDoing exactly what is says on the tin, this casual DIFC bar is a huge hit with wing-lovers. The all-American hangout offers a variety of delicious sauces at varying spice levels, including one that you have to sign a waiver for as it’s that hot. For Dhs199, throughout November you can enjoy unlimited numbers of these lip-lickingly tasty meaty wings and bottomless hops to wash them all down with – and to take the edge of the spiciness.Offer valid from 4pm-8pm. Open daily noon-2am. Liberty House, Level C, DIFC (04 359 6900).Ribs & BrewsAt this cool, industrial-themed ground-floor bar in Al Habtoor City, you’ll be able to spend an afternoon catching the footy (or other sport of your choosing), with some top grub – and you can save a few fils while you’re at it. Get six chicken wings and a pint of hops for Dhs75 from noon until 5pm from Saturday to Monday, and from noon until 1am every Monday you can get your hands on the gigantic man cave burger with a pint of the black stuff for Dhs195.Open Sat-Tue noon-1am, Wed-Fri noon-2am. Hilton Dubai Al Habtoor City (04 435 5577).The BlacksmithThere’s no shortage of Deep South-inspired meateries in this city, but The Blacksmith is among the most authentic in town so if you’re mad about meat, this is the deal for you. Sample the belly-busting Texas Brisket Sandwich – a fresh potato roll layered with 14-hour smoked brisket and topped with pickles, onions and barbecue sauce, and a pint for just Dhs69. Lip-smackingly good, all for under Dhs100.Open Sun-Wed 5pm-2am, Thu-Sat 5pm-3am. Wyndham Dubai Marina, Dubai Marina (04 407 8873).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
