
# What Comes After Digital Transformation? One Answer Is The Self-Driving Enterprise

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Solis**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/briansolis/2019/11/04/what-comes-after-digital-transformation-one-answer-is-the-self-driving-enterprise/)

Frederic Laluyaux, CEO of Aera, picked up his iPhone and asked, “What’s my forecast?”A pleasant voice responded, “On track at $1.2B with an additional $134M revenue opportunity. Do you want the regional breakdown?”
That was my introduction to the coming age of The Self-Driving Enterprise, a category Laluyaux trademarked to double-down on the evolution (or revolution) of the enterprise as he sees it. He founded Aera to develop a new generation of cognitive technology that reinvigorates existing ERPs to power the next-generation Self-Driving Enterprise. 
Think of Aera as a cognitive operating system that connects disparate (and aging) ERP systems and data into a digital brain. It serves as a cognitive layer that connects data, insights and people in an on-demand operational model. Aera provides Google-like indexing capabilities with an Alexa style interface. 
Its unique value comes from a proprietary cognitive AI platform that makes sense of scattered and unclean data across multitudes of ERPs to deliver business critical information on-demand. More so, Aera learns from every instance how the business operates today and how it can improve day after day. This give the digital brain memory and the type of precious expertise that was previously relegated to human brains. The challenge with human capital is that as people come and go, that knowledge leaves and has to be replicated every time. Between this and aging infrastructure, siloed business models and general “out of touchness” and a business as usual mindset, barriers and blackholes have over time, impeded progress and innovation. 
Businesses have to do more than digitally transform. Executives have to split efforts into modernization and innovation. They have to invest in innovative operational infrastructure, models and expertise that’s capable of competing against a new breed of digital native competitors. 

        From Business as Usual to a More Cognitive, Self-Driving Enterprise 
      
I had the chance to visit with Frederic in Aera’s San Francisco offices. We didn’t waste much time before we jumped into how Aera is already transforming businesses. And that’s not as rosy as it may sound. The key word there is “transforming” and not everyone is ready for change. But this is exactly the type of disruptive innovation that will upgrade any organization as it sets out to compete for the future. 
Before Aera, Laluyaux served as Chief Executive Officer and President at Anaplan. He successfully grew that company from 20 to 650 employees with a $1B+ valuation. His track record gives him access to C-Suites at major organizations. He’s already seeing that they all have the same problem. They’re firmly stuck with one foot in legacy infrastructure and the other in digital transformation. But there’s more to digital transformation than upgrades and migration. It’s about building a new business and operational OS powered by a human brain with creative human capital that is at the same time, future-ready and future-proof. 
At the heart of this is data (and of course technology). Data is often referred to as the new oil. But data is a bit more like crude oil. You have to first find and collect it from all of its vast repositories. Even when you do, it’s unrefined. Data is often bad. It’s all over the place. Oftentimes, key data points are missing, especially in an era of real-time and predictive analytics. You can’t just make decisions with what you have, you need to upgrade, organize and clean the sources, plug it all into an intelligent system and upgrade human capital to connect the dots and make the most informed decisions consistently all at the accelerating speed of business.
Pretty much, every CEO knows they have data, operational and human capital problems. Digital transformation is one of the paths forward. You can’t solve it overnight and becoming digital is a game everyone is playing. But you can start making the investment in cognitive platforms that connect the disparate dots while also giving stakeholders the ability to literally ask different questions that beget different answers. This starts to change organizational behavior, develop new human and machine knowledge and capabilities that ultimately change organizational course. 
Gartner is already starting to track the space, adding several categories to its Hype Cycle for Supply Chain Planning Technologies. For example, Gartner placed Aera in its Autonomous planning category, which is defined as automated predication and automated prescription. Sample vendors include Aera, GAINSystems, JDA Software and Kinaxis.
The space is already heating up and changing businesses at every step.
As Laluyaux says, “the leap from transactional automation to cognitive automation is imminent and it will forever transform the way we work.”
Leaders have to now start thinking about business In a post digital transformation world, a cognitive enterprise aka the self-driving enterprise is certainly a glimpse into the next “Aera” AI-driven business performance and evolution. Now, it’s a question of leadership. Executives must make bold investments and bold move to not only keep up with evolution, but also get ahead of it.
