
# Simon Cowell and Little Mix go head to head as he launches rival prime time talent show

Published at: **2019-11-04T02:37:10+00:00**

Author: **Sofia Petkar**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/simon-cowell-little-mix-go-20805976)

Simon Cowell is preparing to to launch a new ITV show that will directly rival his former protégées Little Mix’s new BBC talent search.
Simon has decided to scrap the X Factor All Stars series set to launch on ITV next month, instead focusing on finding the next big girl group and boy band, report The Sun.
The new show will be called X Factor: The Band and will be in direct competition to Little Mix’s BBC One prime time talent hunt ‘The Search’, set to launch in the new year.
Little Mix were hand picked by Simon, 60, in 2011 after he chose Jesy Nelson, Jade Thirlwall, Perrie Edwards and Leigh-Anne Pinnock to form a new girl band.
z
The girls were represented by Simon’s record label Syco, releasing four albums under the banner.
However, the girls parted ways with the record label after seven years after falling out with their managers Modest! last year.
Speaking to The Sun, Simon has now claimed that he came up with the idea of a new talent show first and has moved it forward to directly compete with the girls.
He said: “This is what really happened. I was approached to co-produce that show last year by Little Mix’s management.
“I told them the problem was we have a conflict of interest because we are launching X Factor The Band in 2020. We were told their show was going to launch in 2021.
“Then we had the fallout and find out Little Mix were bringing their show forward. Was that intentional because we are doing our show? I have no idea.”
The music mogul added that the “battle” would be “100% exciting”.
Auditions for the new ITV show will begin soon at London’s Sony Music, with the live finals set to be held at the Birmingham Arena in December.
Little Mix’s BBC offering will see talented singers put into either all-girl, all-boy or mixed bands.
They will then compete against each other with the girls acting as mentors.
The winning group then join Little Mix on their summer tour in 2020.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
