
# BTS, Selena Gomez And Kanye West: 5 Major Moves On This Week’s U.K. Singles Chart

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Hugh McIntyre**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2019/11/06/bts-selena-gomez-and-kanye-west-5-major-moves-on-this-weeks-uk-singles-chart/)

After a full week of activity, Selena Gomez’s new single “Lose You to Love Me” has become a huge hit all around the world, including in the U.K. and the U.S. (where it quickly shot right to the top). As she begins to dominate, a number of new singles reach the ranking across the pond as well, while a successful release from the biggest name in K-pop holds on once again.Here’s a look at five of the most important moves on this week’s U.K. singles chart.

        No. 3 - Selena Gomez - “Lose You to Love Me”
      
Last week, Selena Gomez’s new single “Love You to Lose Me” debuted at No. 65 on the U.K. songs chart, a fair beginning for a tune that only had two days in which to rack up streams and sales. Now that more time has passed, what may be the latest (or the first, depending on what the singer decides to include) taste of an upcoming album shoots straight toward the top, moving 62 spaces to No. 3.
At the same time, another brand new cut, “Look at Her Now,” opens at No. 26, giving the singer and actress her sixteenth top 40 in the country.

        No. 6 - Kanye West - “Follow God”
      
His new album Jesus Is King might not have snagged the top spot on its ranking, but a handful of tracks from the set do perform well in the U.K. as they arrive this week. Up first from the rapper’s Christian-focused collection is “Follow God,” which debuts at No. 6, becoming the biggest win from the album. Two other tracks, “Selah” and “Closed on Sunday” land at Nos. 19 and 20, respectively. He would probably have scored more hits if the Official Charts Company didn’t have a rule stipulating that every musician can only own three positions on the singles ranking at a time.
West has now collected at least 46 top 40 hits throughout his career.

        No. 7 - Lizzo - “Good as Hell”
      
While her recent single “Truth Hurts” was the one that put her on the map in countries all around the world, Lizzo scores her first top 10 in the U.K. with another track. Current focus “Good as Hell,” which has also been around for several years, jumps to No. 7 this week thanks in large part to a new remixed version that features Ariana Grande. 

        No. 27 - Coldplay - “Orphans”
      
Shortly after the band revealed they have not one, but two new albums coming later this month, they gifted fans the first single from this era. “Orphans” debuts at No. 27 this week, a safe beginning for what could wind up being another big hit for the British group. The tune is now their twenty-fourth top 40 in the U.K.

        No. 89 - BTS - “Make It Right”
      
BTS’s song “Make It Right” debuted on the U.K. chart in April when their album Map of the Soul: Persona arrived...and then it quickly disappeared. Last frame, the track returned and reached a new high point as the band rereleased it with a verse by American pop talent Lauv. The cut falls this time around, but earns another stay on the tally, becoming one of only a few from the K-pop favorites that have lived on the list for three weeks. In fact, “Make It Right” is now tied with fellow BTS titles “Fake Love” and “Idol” as one of their second-longest-charting tracks.
Their longest-charting cut is “Boy with Luv,” which held on for 10 frames.
