
# Kylie Jenner and Drake spark dating rumours as they 'grow close' after Travis Scott split

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:44:16+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Wallis**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kylie-jenner-drake-spark-dating-20821893)

Reality TV star Kylie Jenner has reportedly been getting close to global rap sensation Drake following her split from Travis Scott in October.
The Keeping Up With The Kardashians regular, 22, recently attended the pop icon's 33rd birthday bash in Hollywood and it was reported that the pair "had an attraction".
Insiders now claim make-up mogul Kylie and musician Drake regularly see each other and have sparked speculation that they are dating just one month after her high-profile split from Travis.
A source told People : "He and Kylie have been spending time together recently.
"They’ve been friends for a long time and Drake is very close to the family."
Although some sources attempted to shut down rumours and insisted to the publication that Kylie and Drake's relationship is just "friendly", another insider told People the pair have been hanging out "romantically".
Before being reportedly 'attached at the hip' at Drake's party, multiple sources have suggested a connection between the two stars.
If Kylie and Drake were to hook up, it could prove a little awkward at Kardashian family reunions.
The rapper has a long standing beef with Kanye West after the Yeezy rapper was upset that Drake was following Kim Kardashian on Instagram .
Reports of Kylie and Drake's suspected blossoming romance has also reportedly upset the TV star's famous ex, Travis Scott.
Hollywood Life claimed Travis would "feel betrayed" if Kylie and Drake's relationship actually became something more romantic.
There has been no official word as to why Kylie and Travis originally split up but it was thought that his career taking off and Kylie's desire for him to be around more for daughter Stormi Webster, were conflicting with each other.
While some sources think there's a chance Jenner and Scott will reconcile, Kylie confirmed the split with a tweet.
She wrote: "Travis and I are on great terms. Our main focus right now is Stormi. Our friendship and our daughter is priority."
Kylie and Travis were in a relationship for nearly three years and share one-year-old daughter Stormi.
