
# Galaxy S10 owners can now stream games from their PC

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:57:00+00:00**

Author: **Ash**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/galaxy-s10-playgalaxy-link/)


        Galaxy S10 owners can now join the ranks of Galaxy Note 10 owners in using the PlayGalaxy Link app to stream games from their PC to their mobile phone.
      
According to an article from SamMobile, version 1.0.5 of the PlayGalaxy Link app adds support for the game streaming app to the Galaxy S10e, Galaxy S10, Galaxy S10+, and Galaxy S10 5G.
By using PlayGalaxy Link, you can link your Samsung account on both your computer and your phone in order to find the games installed on your computer. The games will then show up on your phone, allowing you to choose one to stream.
Games can be streamed over a variety of connections, including 4G, 5G, and Wi-Fi, so keep an eye on your mobile data bill if you’re on a limited contract. You don’t want to discover you’ve racked up a nasty bill because you were too busy playing Battlefield V while out and about.
If you have literally any phone that isn’t a Galaxy Note 10 or S10, or if you have one of those phones but the PlayGalaxy Link app isn’t available in your region, you can still get in on the streaming hype thanks to the game streaming service known as Parsec. Simply follow the embedded link and follow the instructions on-site to get streaming on your mobile in a matter of minutes.
PlayGalaxy Link utilises the same kind of software as Parsec, so you’ll be having almost the exact same experience, just without the PlayGalaxy Link branding. Happy gaming!
