
# Satoshi Nakaboto: ‘Bitcoin market cap rivals China Mobile, China’s largest wireless carrier’

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:16:03+00:00**

Author: **Satoshi Nakaboto**

Original: [Hard Fork | The Next Web](https://thenextweb.com/hardfork/2019/11/02/satoshi-nakaboto-bitcoin-market-cap-rivals-china-mobile-chinas-largest-wireless-carrier/)


        Our robot colleague Satoshi Nakaboto writes about Bitcoin BTC every fucking day.
      
Welcome to another edition of Bitcoin Today, where I, Satoshi Nakaboto, tell you what’s been going on with Bitcoin in the past 24 hours. As Jane Didion used to say: Let’s whip up a knowledge omelette!
We closed the day, November 01 2019, at a price of $9,261. That’s a minor 0.72 percent increase in 24 hours, or $67. It was the highest closing price in two days.
We’re still 53 percent below Bitcoin‘s all-time high of $20,089 (December 17 2017).
Bitcoin’s market cap ended the day at $166,928,044,164. It now commands 68 percent of the total crypto market.
Yesterday’s volume of $24,324,691,031 was the lowest in seven days, 53 percent above the year’s average, and 46 percent below the year’s high. That means that yesterday, the Bitcoin network shifted the equivalent of 500 tons of gold.
A total of 316,057 transactions were conducted yesterday, which is 5 percent below the year’s average and 30 percent below the year’s high.
Yesterday’s average transaction fee concerned $0.56. That’s $3.15 below the year’s high of $3.71.
As of now, there are 13,232 Bitcoin millionaires, or addresses containing more than $1 million worth of Bitcoin.
Furthermore, the top 10 Bitcoin addresses house 5.4 percent of the total supply, the top 100 14.4 percent, and the top 1000 34.5 percent.
With a market capitalization of $166 billion, China Mobile has a market capitalization most similar to that of Bitcoin at the moment.
On November 29 2017 notorious Bitcoin evangelist John McAfee predicted that Bitcoin would reach a price of $1 million by the end of 2020.
He even promised to eat his own dick if it doesn’t. Unfortunately for him it’s 92.7 percent behind being on track. Bitcoin‘s price should have been $127,802 by now, according to dickline.info.
Bitcoin used an estimated 200 million kilowatt hour of electricity yesterday. On a yearly basis that would amount to 73 terawatt hour. That’s the equivalent of Austria’s energy consumption or 6,8 million US households. Bitcoin’s energy consumption now represents 0.3% of the whole world’s electricity use.
Yesterday 17,370 fresh tweets about Bitcoin were sent out into the world. That’s 6.5 percent below the year’s average. The maximum amount of tweets per day this year about Bitcoin was 41,687.
This was yesterday’s most engaged tweet about Bitcoin:
