
# Barcelona: Cristiano Ronaldo’s teammate identified as Sergio Busquets’ replacement

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:37:45+00:00**

Author: **Atharva Khadilkar**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/01/barcelona-cristiano-ronaldos-teammate-identified-sergio-busquets-replacement/)

Barcelona midfielder Sergio Busquets is catching up with age and his most recent performances have shown that he is not on the level that he once was. The Spain international is no more a pre-eminent starter with his side and has only been playing matches due to the lack of replacements for him.
Ernesto Valverde’s side has identified its need and will be recruiting a player in that position during the next summer. Juventus superstar Rodrigo Bentancur has been shortlisted as one of the necessary options. The Uruguay international has lost his starting role in Italy having started only three of the ten Serie A games under Maurizio Sarri this campaign, Fox Sports claims.
Rodrigo Bentancur is a young player and it is normal to see him looking for a transfer, especially because he will be competing against Lucas Torreira in the national team and both players are equally good on quality to compete healthily against one another. Bentancur will certainly be a great addition to Barca, but is also wanted by Man City.
Manchester City are keen on signing the Uruguayan midfielder due to the ageing and wearing out of Fernandinho. As such, the Citizens have signed Rodri from Atletico Madrid during the summer but have no backup for the new signing as even Ilkay Gundogan faces an uncertain future at the Etihad Stadium.
Ivan Rakitic is wanted by Juventus and is valued at 40 million euros, on the same line as Rodrigo Bentancur so one must not rule out the possibility of a swap deal between the two clubs. Should this fall through, Barca would have won from the deal as Rakitic is past his prime while they will get a young player for effectively no additional cost.
Do you see Ivan Rakitic and Rodrigo Bentancur swapping their respective clubs in 2020?
