
# Britain's biggest family the Radfords reveal 22nd baby's gender in adorable video

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:30:10+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/britains-biggest-family-radfords-reveal-17189804)

The UK's biggest family - the Radfords - have been filmed screaming in delight in a sweet gender reveal video for their 22nd child.
Sue and Noel Radford were armed with confetti cannons as they revealed the news to their excited brood.
The parents, from Morecambe in Lancashire, ask their kids whether they think the baby - due in April next year - will be a boy or a girl.
Sue is heard saying: "We're so excited! I cannot believe that we've waited, the scan was on Tuesday and it's now Friday. That is some willpower."
Sue, 44, and dad, Noel, 48, finally let off the cannons to reveal pink confetti.
Noel says: "I was convinced it was going to be a boy."
Sue adds: "You know what that means. It means there'll be 11 girls and 11 boys."
Sue and Noel Radford, from Morecambe in Lancashire, are already parents to 11 boys and 10 girls - and their new arrival is due in April.
The couple went to hospital on Tuesday with some of their youngest children who said "it was the most excited they had ever been" as they saw their new sibling for the first time.
Sue and Noel Radford welcomed their 20th child - 8lb 6oz son Archie in September 2017m and vowed the little boy would be their last and they were happy to finish on a "nice even number".
But months on, the family got even bigger with a daughter who will be almost 30 years younger than her oldest sibling.
The couple spend an estimated £30,000 a year of their own money bringing up their children - including birthdays with a budget of £100 per child and Christmas at £100 to £250 per child.
In addition, they also have a holiday abroad each year.
Noel and Sue said their original plan was to have three children, but they loved the experience so much that they simply kept going.
They are already parents to Chris, 29, Sophie, 24, Chloe, 22, Jack, 21, Daniel, 19, Luke, 17, Millie, 16, Katie, 15, James, 14, Ellie, 13, Aimee, 12, Josh, 10, Max, nine, Tillie, eight, Oscar, six, Casper, five, Hallie, two, Phoebe, 22 months, and Archie, eight months.
Their son Alfie was stillborn in 2014.
