
# Three new ladies’ nights to check out this week

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:39:00+00:00**

Author: **Time Out Dubai staff**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/ladies-nights/421935-three-new-ladies-nights-to-check-out-this-week)

There are plenty of ways to save money in Dubai, but none are more fun than a ladies’ night. So if you’re looking for a new one to check out this week, look no further than right here.For a full list of ladies’ nights, click here.BungalowThe deal: Four free drinks and 50 percent off foodVisit La Mer’s newest beach bar and enjoy those dreamy, chilled-out sunset vibes along with four free drinks, live music and 50 percent food (we’re talking burgers, sliders, tacos, quesadillas, salads, desserts and loads more) every Wednesday from 5pm onwards.Wed 5pm-midnight. La Mer, Jumeirah 1 (054 994 7970).Karma KaféThe deal: Three free drinks and two courses for Dhs159 or three course for Dhs189This Asian restaurant in Souk Al Bahar not only offers up amazing views of The Dubai Fountain, it also serves up a decent ladies’ night deal too. You’ll get three free drinks every Tuesday from 6pm until 1am so you can chill in the lounge and catch up with your friends. Peckish? You can also choose between either two courses for Dhs159 or three courses for Dhs189. Menu highlights include the Japanese tuna pizza, yellowfin tuna sashimi and calamari to start, while mains include wok stir fry black cod, Japanese coconut curry and seafood yaki udon noodles and desserts range from chocolate fondant, yuzu cheesecake and lemon tart.Tue 6pm-1am. Souk Al Bahar, Downtown Dubai (04 423 0909).Soul StreetThe deal: five free drinksThe Jenny from the Block ladies’ night promises urban beats, gourmet street food and more. You’ll get five free drinks, but for Dhs140 you can get three courses from the street food menu. Gents can get in on the deal for Dhs190 including two free drinks.Wed 7pm-2am. FIVE Jumeirah Village, JVC (04 248 9999).The Smash RoomThe deal: ten free glasses to smash, plus 25 percent off add-onsIf you’re more interested in the idea of smashing stuff up, rather than sipping on a mixed drink, this ladies’ night is for you. The Smash Room has a Monday night ladies’ night, where you’ll get free smash packages where you can break ten glasses, plus 25 percent off add-ons, if you get in the swing (literally) of things.Mon 6pm-9pm. Ongoing. Al Quoz, www.thesmashroom.ae.
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
