
# WhatsApp now plays Netflix videos directly in the app - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:22:56+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/whatsapp-now-plays-netflix-videos-directly-in-the-app/)

WhatsApp now plays Netflix videos directly in the app4.3 (85%) 4 votes WhatsApp is the most popular messenger app worldwide with over 1.5 billion monthly active users.As of 2019, the chat app had an estimate 68 million users in the US, with forecasts projecting an audience size of almost 86 million users in 2023. With such huge numbers, the messenger is constantly updating its features to make it more user friendly. This messenger often combines well with offerings of other companies. This now includes a better integration with Netflix.
Specifically, WhatsApp can now play trailers in its picture-in-picture player when a direct link of a Netflix content is posted in a chat. At least for the trailer, you are no longer re-directed to the Netflix app, which actually seems a very cool idea.

        According to WABetaInfo, 
        WhatsApp has implemented the ability to stream directly into WhatsApp trailers from Netflix. When you share a compatible Netflix link, it displays a large thumbnail with a play icon. “
      
As of now, playing Netflix videos directly on WhatsApp is only available for iOS devices. In addition, you must have the latest version of the App. As of now, this messenger is able to play videos from YouTube, Facebook and Instagram links directly within the app. Presumably, Netflix will add more services, but the developers are not particularly open or commenting on this.

        Source
      
