
# Kevin Spacey won’t face sexual assault charges after his accuser died

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:27:30+00:00**

Author: **Sofia Petkar**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kevin-spacey-wont-face-sexual-20786093)

Hollywood actor Kevin Spacey will no longer be charged with any sexual offences after the man who accused him died suddenly.
The unnamed masseur claimed the star had forced him to touch his genitals during an appointment at the actor’s Malibu home in October 2016.
He reported it to the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, with the investigation referred to the District Attorney’s office in July 2018.
The unnamed accuser passed away in September 2019, with the charges officially dropped on October 28, 2019.
The decision to drop the charges was announced by the LA County District Attorney’s office, who said: “The sexual assault allegations cannot be proven without participation of the victim. Thus, the case was declined.”
The same man had also sued Spacey under the alias John Doe, with that case still pending in a federal court.
The masseur was not the first man to accuse Spacey following the rise of the #MeToo movement.
In October 2017, Star Trek actor Anthony Rapp alleged Spacey had tried to seduce him in 1986.
Rapp would have been 14-years-old at the time, with Spacey aged 26.
Spacey claimed that he had no recollection of the incident and apologised for “what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behaviour”.
During this apology, Spacey publicly came out as gay.
A number of other alleged victims have also tried to take legal action against Spacey over the last few years, but most charges were dropped by District Attorneys in LA and Massachusetts.
Spacey has also been questioned by Scotland Yard officers in London over six separate allegations of assault during his sting in the capital while artistic director at the Old Vic theatre.
The actor has always denied all allegations against him.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
