
# Disha Patani shares 'Radhe' muhurat puja pictures from the sets

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:43:10+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/disha-patani-shares-radhe-muhurat-puja-pictures-from-the-sets/articleshow/71932766.cms)

Disha Patani exactly knows how to keep her Instagram game up. The beautiful actress is one of the hottest divas of Bollywood and her pictures on social media do all the talking about her beauty and grace. After treating her fans with dazzling pictures from her latest photoshoot, today she shared some angelic pictures of hers.
As we all know Disha is a part of Salman Khan's forthcoming film, 'Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai' and today, the actress had shared some muhurat puja pictures from the sets. In the pictures we can see Disha attending the puja which is being held on the sets early in the morning. We can also see other crew members present on the sets.
Dressed in a white ethnic wear, Disha looked regal in the pictures. She is carrying a beautiful designer Indo western style lehenga with some fine embellishments over it. With just earrings and a ring, Disha is rocking this traditional look.
Recently, Salman Khan shared a picture from the sets that revealed the starcast from the film. He shared a group picture, where Jackie Shroff is holding a clapboard in his hands. Etimes had also reported that Disha will have a very small role in the movie and will majorly focus on Salman's cop role which will be filled with action and drama.
The film is produced by Sohail Khan and Atul Agnihotri. At the box office, ‘Radhe: Your Most Wanted Bhai’ will clash with Akshay Kumar’s horror drama ‘Laxmmi Bomb’. Both the film are eyeing Eid 2020.
