
# Fantasy Football Sleeper Wide Receivers To Play In Week 9, The Star WRs To Avoid

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Zach Petersel**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/zachpetersel/2019/11/01/fantasy-football-sleeper-wide-receivers-to-play-in-week-9-the-star-wrs-to-avoid/)

Never again Keke Coutee, never again. After a week full of hype about his potential role in the Houston Texans offense, Coutee played zero snaps. I’m never going to get every prediction correct, that’s not realistic. All we can do is be confident in the process and evaluate the best options available. I still trust we went about it the right way, as last week’s column still hit on two of our three predictions, just sometimes coaches have a gameplan we could never predict.
This week our process remains very similar.
Talent + opportunity.
As we look ahead to the Week 9 rankings on FantasyPros, here are a few wide receivers I like more than outside their top-36 consensus rankings in addition to a few stars I’d avoid this week.

        1. Kansas City Chiefs WR Sammy Watkins (FantasyPros Rank, 44)
      
As a Sammy Watkins owner in multiple leagues, I will be the first to tell you how frustrating he’s been this season.
Week 1: 198 yards, three touchdowns.
Since: 212 yards, zero touchdowns.
Most of those games had Patrick Mahomes under center and Tyreek Hill on the sidelines. It seems impossible that someone with Watkins’ talent and the opportunity that is being the No. 1 WR in a Mahomes-led offense could produce so poorly, but here we are.
And where we are, is the verge of a Watkins breakout game. It may not be this week, but it’s coming, because he’s healthy again and the opportunity in KC’s offense is back. Sammy was on the field for 86 percent of the snaps, ran routes on 92 percent of Matt Moore’s throws and received 22 percent of the team’s targets. Watkins runs roughly 60 percent of his snaps from the slot, which isn’t ideal going against a Vikings defense that is eighth-best in the league against slot receivers, but again we’re betting on his talent + opportunity.
We know his upside. The targets are back. Kansas City doesn’t have the running game it can typically rely on. Patrick Mahomes may return which would obviously only help matters, but even if Matt Moore is at the helm, I expect Watkins to handily outperform this ranking.

        2. Detroit Lions WR Danny Amendola (FantasyPros Rank, 50)
      
I wrote about Amendola as part of my waiver wire advice for this week, so I won’t dive too deep into the particulars, but it surprises me that he’s ranked so low.
He’s coming off consecutive eight-catch weeks. He has 19 targets and 200 combined receiving yards over those two games. He lives in the slot and the Raiders are one of the most generous teams in the league in terms of allowing points to opposing fantasy receivers in the slot. On the whole, the Raiders have a bottom-five defense in the league and rank 29th in the league against the pass. I touched on this last week as well, but heading into Week 8 Oakland had seen 59 slot targets and opponents have recorded 46 catches for 583 yards and five touchdowns. 9.9 yards per target and a touchdown every 11.8 targets, all stats courtesy of FantasyPros’ Mike Tagliere.
Do you really trust someone like Preston Williams (ranked 40th) more? Or Marquez Valdes-Scantling (ranked 41st)? Why is Mohamed Sanu (ranked 47th) a better option?
The Lions-Raiders game currently has the highest-projected over/under on the Week 9 slate, so it’s a game we should feel comfortable investing roster spots in. I like Amendola to greatly outperform his ranking this week and generate at least a flex return, if not a WR3.

        WRs to Avoid: Odell Beckham Jr (Rank, 17) and Courtland Sutton (Rank, 19)
      
Normally, I try to give you a WR1 to avoid from FantasyPros’ rankings, but this week I’m confident each of them will produce. No need to divert you all from the good players! So let’s focus on a few I have my concerns about.
Last week I spoke about the perils of starting someone against Chris Harris Jr. and I hope you listened. Add T.Y. Hilton (two catches, 54 yards) to Keenan Allen, Tyreek Hill, D.J. Chark and Davante Adams as WRs he’s already shut down this season. Care to guess who gets Harris this week?
OBJ.
Beckham hasn’t just one touchdown this season, which came in Week 2. Over his last four games, he’s averaging fewer than four catches. Freddie Kitchens has looked totally overmatched as a head coach and playcaller so it’s hard to put any faith in him turning this offense around against the third-best defense in the NFL this season.
As I say each week, this isn’t a suggestion to bench Beckham at all costs, but rather to seriously consider your bench options. He’s no longer an auto start, despite being one of the most talented football players on the planet.
Courtland Sutton has been one of the NFL’s most unheralded breakout stars of 2019.
He’s averaging roughly 80 yards a game on the season. He’s averaging roughly 81 yards per game over his last four games. Sutton has been remarkably consistent.
The problem is, Joe Flacco is out indefinitely.
It’s gotten awfully difficult to compliment Joe Flacco these days. However, when you go from him to Brandon Allen, a 2016 sixth-round pick that hasn’t played a snap in his NFL career, all of a sudden Flacco looks pretty good. Not to mention, the Browns got their star second-year corner back last week, Denzel Ward, who will likely shadow Sutton all over the field.
With one of the lowest-projected team totals of the week and one of the worst projected starting quarterbacks throwing him the ball, I’m avoid Sutton where I can this week.
If you need more help, can check out FantasyPros’ start/sit advice.
