
# Family's support to name new street after Scotland's 'last witch' Helen Duncan

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:14:46+00:00**

Author: **Chris Marzella**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/familys-support-name-new-street-20816943)


        A proposal to name a street in Callander after Helen Duncan – the last woman in Scotland to be convicted under witchcraft laws– was this week backed by her granddaughter.
      
Helen was a spiritual medium from the town, who was tried and jailed for witchcraft in April 1944.
The Observer reported last month how Callander Community Council had suggested naming one of the new streets in the new 50- home Claish Farm development ' Duncan Drive ' in her honour.
Now Margaret Hahn, who lives in Springfield, in Robertson County, Tennessee, has backed the move – provided it was a recognition of her grandmother’s work as a medium, and not for witchcraft.
Margaret, 64, who was born in Dunfermline, contacted the Observer after reading our story outlining the proposal.
She said her grandmother’s jailing has affected her in to her later life, saying “I have cried many a tear over this”.
“I was brought up with the belief my grandma had been given a gift from God,” added Margaret.
“I was 18 months old when she passed over so I really have no memories of her. In 1985, I started researching her mediumship. I have always had a spiritual connection with my grandma I think that has in part assisted me with the research I’ve done.
“I was the first person to receive the Home Office files when they finally released them after many phone calls to them. I can’t change what happened to my grandmother or our family but I will continue to work on her legacy as wonderful medium.”
Callander Community Council had wished to speak to some of Mrs Duncan’s relatives about their plans before deciding on whether to proceed with the idea.
Margaret said: “I would be honoured to have a street named after my grandma. Many people have asked me if there is any memorials set up in Callander and I’ve had to say ‘no’. Many individuals visit Callander every year just because that is where Helen Duncan is born.
“My dream is to have a memorial in Callander dedicated to my grandmother so that people can visit there.”
Helen Duncan was born in Callander in 1897, but later moved to Dundee and then Edinburgh.
During World War II, in November 1941, she held a seance in Portsmouth at which she claimed the spirit of a sailor told her that the HMS Barham had been sunk.
Because the sinking of HMS Barham was revealed, in strict confidence, only to the relatives of casualties, and not announced to the public until late January 1942, the Navy started to take an interest in her activities.
Two lieutenants were among her audience at a seance on January 14, 1944. One of these was a Lieutenant Worth who was not impressed as a white cloth figure had appeared behind the curtains claiming to be his aunt – he had no deceased aunt.
In the same sitting another figure appeared claiming to be his sister but Worth replied his sister was alive and well. Worth was disgusted by the seance and reported it to the police.
Undercover policemen arrested her following another seance at which a white-shrouded figure appeared which turned out to be Duncan herself.
It later emerged that the information about HMS Barham’s sinking had come from another source.
She was initially arrested under section 4 of the Vagrancy Act 1824, a minor offence tried by magistrates. The authorities regarded the case as more serious, and eventually charged her under section 4 of the Witchcraft Act 1735, covering fraudulent ‘spiritual’ activity, for which accused persons could face trial before a jury.
She was released in 1945 and promised to stop conducting seances, but she was arrested during another one in 1956.

        
          Click here for more news and sport from the Stirling area.
        
      
