
# Ole Gunnar Solskjaer hints at lack of Man Utd transfer activity in January

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:36:28+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/ole-gunnar-solskjaer-hints-lack-20800821)

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer appeared to hint there may be a lack of transfer activity in January after their defeat to Bournemouth .
The Red Devils suffered a 1-0 defeat against the Cherries, again drawing blanks up front as their struggle for goals continued.
Solskjaer previously stated he would be in the market for attacking reinforcements in January after failing to replace Romelu Lukaku or Alexis Sanchez in the summer.
But the Norwegian appeared to double-down on those claims after Saturday's game as he hinted there might not be any new additions up front.
Instead, he claimed they need their current squad - with Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial - leading the line rather than relying on signings to save their season.
 
"To win games you need to score goals and I'm sure Anthony and Marcus are going to get their share of goals," Solskjaer said. "Anthony's just gonna improve but we need more creativity.
"But we've got loads of players here in the squad who could create more, it's not just look outside, we have to do with what we have."
United have scored just 13 goals in 11 Premier League games, which included four on the opening day against Chelsea .
Speaking earlier this season about their lack of goals, Solskjaer declared: "You don't have to be a rocket scientist to know it's a forward we're going to try to recruit next time.
"We're looking for some creativity and goals, but they [potential signings] have to be the right one.
"There were strikers available [in the summer] but not the ones we wanted. We couldn't get the one we wanted."
Experienced names Mario Mandzukic and Thomas Muller have been linked, as well as Moussa Dembele and Callum Wilson.
