
# Terminator Dark Fate is box office flop, studios face '$120 million-plus loss'

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:43:30+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/film/terminator-dark-fate-box-office-20808362)

The future may not be written in stone but it's not looking good either.
Terminator Dark Fate has significantly under-performed at the box office, both in the US and in international territories.
According to The Hollywood Reporter, the film bombed at the US box office on its opening weekend, bringing in only $29 million, which is significantly behind what was expected.
Overseas, the sequel has not performed as well either, grossing only $94.6 million to date.
This takes the film's global box office to $123 million, which means that the partner studios of Skydance Media, Paramount Pictures, and 20th Century Fox all face a $120 million-plus loss.
It is also worth noting that the Fox film studio is now owned by Disney.
The news doesn't bode well for potential follow-ups to Dark Fate, the ending of which left open enough room for potential sequels.
 
Dark Fate was produced by James Cameron as a sequel to the first two Terminator films that he directed, with Linda Hamilton returning to her iconic role of Sarah Connor opposite Arnold Schwarzenegger as as the Terminator.
The film saw them forced to team up - despite some serious grievances - to protect a Mexican woman named Dani Ramo (Natalia Reyes), who is targeted by the machines from the future but protected by a mysterious human saviour, Grace (Mackenzie Davis).
However, it looks like this may be it for the franchise.
Has it been terminated?

        Terminator Dark Fate is in cinemas now.
      

        
          What did you think of Terminator Dark Fate? Let us know in the comments below.
        
      
