
# Slayer film ‘The Repentless Killology’ is vulgar, gruesome and problematic – just like the band

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:27:40+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/features/slayer-film-the-repentless-killology-is-vulgar-gruesome-and-problematic-just-like-the-band-2565599?utm_source=hootsuite&utm_medium=&utm_term=&utm_content=&utm_campaign=)


        The metal titans' retirement is almost upon us, but first there's a bloody gore-fest and live gig movie to see them on their way. Here's what James McMahon makes of their 'final fuck you'
      
When Slayer announced the beginning of the end in early 2018 – there’d be a final world tour, obviously – it left the global metal scene, depending on one’s capacity for cynicism, either mildly shocked or wearily suspicious. The idea of retirement doesn’t sit right with Slayer; since 1981 the most consistently distasteful – and subsequently, more often than not – thrilling hard rock band on the planet. 
After KISS announced their retirement in 2000, they were back by 2002. The immortal Ozzy Osbourne announced his retirement in 1992. In 2014, Mötley Crüe, upon putting on sale their second farewell tour in less than a decade, promoted their final run by publicly signing a legally binding contract promising that this was it, promise. Even Slayer’s support bands don’t think this is it; Pantera’s Phil Anselmo, opening for Slayer until the last show in the diary, at Los Angeles’ Forum on November 30 – recently told Revolver magazine: “Put it this way: there’s a lot of bands that have claimed they’re doing one last tour. It’s called smart business, to a degree. So, I’ll believe it if it happens.”
