
# Will Smith shows his bare bottom on Instagram as he broadcasts his colonoscopy

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:17:21+00:00**

Author: **Lily Waddell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lily-waddell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/smith-shows-bare-bottom-instagram-20831886)

Will Smith showed off his bare bottom on Instagram as he streamed his colonoscopy.
The I Am Legend star, 51, documented his trip to the doctors on social media to raise awareness about Bowel Cancer.
In an informative video posted on his account on Wednesday, the acting legend filmed his own colonoscopy appointment to try and encourage fans to get their own health checks.
The cheeky star didn't mind flashing his bum in his piece to camera when he made sure he gave a realistic view of the visit to the GP.
Colonoscopy is a test to check the inside of your bowels and can help detect the early stages of cancer.
The process works by a long tube with a small camera being passed into the bottom.
Known for his sense of humour, the Hollywood star tried to make light of the appointment.
He said: "These are my little no-slip socks, that's my gown, it opens in the back.
"My a** is gonna be out so they can get to it easy."
Will, who boasts of 39.7million fans, joked about people saying you needed to show your bottom to get 50million followers.
The hunk proudly waved his black boxers while he sat in the  hospital bed.
He wrote: "They said you can’t get to 50 million followers on IG without showing your butt. So here I am, gettin’ a colonoscopy for the clout ;-) link in bio for the vid."
Will received heaps of praise from his fans for sharing the video online.
He even managed to tickle many of his fans sense of humour with the clip.
