
# India to test 3,500km range ballistic missile

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:20:59+00:00**

Author: **News Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2095331/3-india-test-3500km-range-ballistic-missile/)

India plans to test a 3,500-kilometre range submarine-launched ballistic missile from the coast of Andhra Pradesh, reported Indian media.
 
India’s primary agency charged with the military’s research and development, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), is developing two missile systems to be used from the nuclear powered Arihant class of nuclear ballistic missile submarines (SSBN).
The other missile system under development is the 700 kilometre range BO-5 missile.
“As per plans, the DRDO will carry out test-firing of the K-4 nuclear missile from an underwater platform off the Vishakhapatnam coast on Friday. During the trial, the DRDO will test the advanced systems in the missile system,” Indian media quoted government sources.
The missile is capable of carrying both conventional and nuclear warheads.
DRDO has also issued a NOTAM (Notice to Airmen) and marine warnings for long-range testing.
However, it is unclear whether the Indian military will test-fire the missile at its maximum claimed range or will conduct a shorter range test.
New Delhi is also planning to test the Agni-3 ballistic missile and the Brahmos missile in the coming weeks.
Earlier in February, India ‘successfully’ test-fired two indigenously developed Quick Reaction Surface-to-Air missiles (QRSAM) from a test range off the Odisha coast.
The two missiles were tested for different altitude and conditions. The test flights successfully demonstrated robust control, aerodynamics, propulsion, structural performance and high manoeuvring capabilities.
