
# General election: Moving handwritten Tory Story signs pop up across UK

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:38:30+00:00**

Author: **Nicola Bartlett, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/nicola-bartlett/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/moving-hand-written-signs-pop-20819087)

People have been sharing their experiences of living in Tory Britain on social media.
From waiting times in the NHS to struggles with insecure work, they paint a stark picture of the damage cuts have done to the UK over the last nine years.
The grassroots campaign really took off this afternoon with people writing out their stories and pinning them up on posts and at bus stops.
They then took a picture of the notice and tweeted it with the hashtag #Torystory.
 
"A while ago, I realised that I matched a lot of the characteristics for austism I went to the GP and explained this, and talked about how this means I find work much more difficult, contributes to my mental health problems and causes issues in my relationshops.
"I was put on a waiting list to be seen by a specialist.
"The waiting list was three years long.
"I, and many other autistic adults, cant get the support we need due to Tory cuts."
 
"In March I was suicidal.
"I was referred for CBT.
"I'm still waiting.
"Mental health services have been neglected for too long."
The Tories are destroying the NHS.
"I was admitted to hospital with a suspected heart attack.
"All the beds in the hospital were full I spent the night on a trolley in a store cupboard, with no windows, sink or even an emergency call button.
"The staff are so overworked, trying to care for 37 patients with 3 qualified nurses.
"The NHS can't survive for another 5 years of this Tory government.
"Vote Labour on December 12th to save the NHS."
 
"In 2017 I gave birth to my daughter.
"It was quick - I was in the birthing room for less than two hours.
"The midwife had to spend most of this time wrestling  with the clunky slow computer to fill in forms when it came to checking equipments in the room she found that the baby respirator wasn't working.
"We were lucky.
"My daughter was born healthy but what if we weren't so lucky?
"What if we had needed that respirator?
"Tory cuts are putting the lives of newborns at risk.
"To end the cuts and save the NHS vote Labour on 12th December."
"I lost my job last year, now work zero hours contract.
"I often don't have enough hours to pay for my kids to eat, so go to food banks for the first time in my life.
"We have to vote the Tories out."
