
# First Pictures Of Banksy Creating New Artwork Have Been Unveiled

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:52:17+00:00**

Author: **Emily Brown**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/life/first-pictures-of-banksy-creating-new-artwork-have-been-unveiled/)

Banksy’s former agent has shared pictures apparently showing the artist at work, meaning we may have just got one step closer to finding out who the mysterious artist is. 
Advertisements
For years, the world has speculated about the person behind the eye-opening, hard-hitting and timely murals that have been popping up across the globe.
With not much other than the name ‘Banksy’ to go off, people have wondered about the artist’s age, gender and nationality; whether they’re an activist, a vegetarian, a fan of the Star Wars films and all other potential traits.
Advertisements
Are they a family man? Is it your grandmother? Is it me?
Only one thing is for sure. It’s not me.
Now, however, Banksy’s former agent, Steve Lazarides, appears to have given the world an insight into the person behind the artwork.
Lazarides worked with Banksy as his agent, photographer, driver and gallerist for 11 years before the pair went their separate ways in 2008. Now, however, Lazarides has decided to share more of his time with the artist in a new book titled Banksy Captured, which details their years of working together in a series of photographs.
Advertisements

        The website for the book explains:
      
Banksy Captured has not yet been released, but some of the photographer’s pictures have been shared ahead of time, apparently showing the artist at work.
Unfortunately we don’t get a good look at Banksy as he’s pictured from the back, but we can deduce that he is a man with brown hair.
Advertisements

        Check out the pictures here:
      
Admittedly, it’s not much, but we have to take what we can get when it comes to the elusive artist.

        According to the BBC, the photographer described his time with Banksy as ‘a ride’, saying:
      
It’s unclear when Lazarides’ book will be released but it will be interesting to see what else he reveals!

        Emily Brown
      
Emily Brown first began delivering important news stories aged just 13, when she launched her career with a paper round. She graduated with a BA Hons in English Language in the Media from Lancaster University, and went on to become a freelance writer and blogger. Emily contributed to The Sunday Times Travel Magazine and Student Problems before becoming a journalist at UNILAD, where she works on breaking news as well as longer form features.
