
# Discuss everything from your favourite book and trips to eco-friendly habits at these meetups

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/discuss-everything-from-your-favourite-book-and-trips-to-eco-friendly-habits-at-these-meetups/articleshow/71881171.cms)

Between the pages Are you somebody who can’t stop raving about your favourite book or author or an Instagram poem or even a random paragraph you came across? If you just nodded your head and said ‘yes’, bookmark the Facebook page of Atta Galatta. Every month, Rohini Venkatesh Malur invites book nerds to its AG Book Club – to discuss their favourite pieces of literature. Topics form science fiction to fantasy and sadness, everything is discussed. It’s a casual meetup, so there is no set way in which it operates and that’s why sometimes it can go on for hours. At 5th Block, Koramangala, call 9632510126 or follow their Facebook page Vegan’s luck If you are planning to turn vegan, it’s natural for you to have a lot of doubts and queries on how to make the big transition. Don’t worry, you have The Bengaluru Vegans potluck to your rescue. On the last Saturday of every month, members get together at Cubbon Park to chit-chat, learn and yes, enjoy a potluck of vegan treats. Though it’s an informal gathering, make a note of few rules. Bring one or more vegan dishes – prepared or purchased – that can be had by at least five-six people. Carry your own cutlery and water. At Cubbon Park, follow Vegan Bangalore on Facebook The zero mark You want to join the zero-waste movement but not sure how to start? You know, questions such as what the alternative to garbage bin bags is, where you should buy packaging-free dal and atta from, how you should reduce you carbon footprint, how you should recycle cardboard boxes. Zero Waste Bangalore can help you out. They discuss new things at every meetup – from how to sensitise private companies to go plastic-free to how to upcycle used flowers into perfumes, toners, and holi colours. Location varies, call 7353078600 Get set, go Let’s Talk Travel. With a name like that, you know what we are getting into. Obviously, we are talking about your adventurous trips, the research that went into them, the hacks that you used, the mistakes you made, the lessons you learnt, hard drive-full of memories that you came back with and more... Yes, travelling is an exhilarating experience and everyone should wander off once in a while. So come to this meetup and inspire others. At Lahe Lahe, HAL 2nd Stage, Indiranagar, call 9886294444 or follow their Facebook page Small treats Orange chocolate macaron, mint white chocolate macron, caramel macaron, raspberry ganache macaron... Is your mouth watering at the mention of these names? Then imagine how much more fun it would be if you were to make these yourselves. This workshop will teach you just that, and is ideal for beginners, who absolutely love these small round pastry. WHERE: Flourish, School of Baking Cake Decor, Brigade Road, Ashok Nagar WHEN: 3pm-6pm, November 4-5 FEE: `3,890, eventshigh.com An ode to India This gallery is celebrating the festive season with a special exhibition called Samutsava. Through these paintings, discover festivities that depict the country’s rhapsodic spirit and how art meets culture in a seamless manner. On display will be festivals such as Sankranthi, Dasara, Deepavali, Christmas and many others. WHERE: Magnitude Gallery, 27th Cross, 3rd Block, Jayanagar & 5th Phase, JP Nagar WHEN: 10am–8pm, on view till November 30 CALL: 9900117201 Three artists, one show Confluence will bring together the recent works of three fine artists from Bengaluru, namely Priya Bharat, Shipra Gupta, and Sucharita Senapati. Although the artists come from different backgrounds, they share a common passion for representational art and often spend time painting together, visiting art shows in the city, or animatedly discussing all things related to art. Sucharita’s style is realism and she loves to work with watercolour, oil and charcoal, and is currently experimenting with textures and ink. She’s made a series on Ganesha, Shiva, elephants and fairies. Bharat’s subjects are varied – from landscape to cityscape and still life an figurative, each drawn from observations of daily life. Gupta’s paintings are characterised by nostalgic images of childhood and joys of the simple, rural life. WHERE: Karnataka Chitrakala Parishath, Art Complex, Kumarakrupa Rd, Seshadripuram WHEN: 10.30am-7pm, November 8-12 To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
