
# Ryan Kent on the 'buzz' of Rangers song as he makes firm declaration on injury return

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gary Ralston, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gary-ralston/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/ryan-kent-buzz-rangers-song-20826503)

Ryan Kent has declared he’s finally ready to tear them apart all over again.
The Rangers winger strained his hamstring for the third time in his second stint at Ibrox following his £7million move from Liverpool.
The 22-year-old admits he has cut a forlorn and frustrated figure after the injury cost him the chance to make an immediate impact after his transfer was made permanent on the final day of the window.
Kent lasted only 40 minutes of his return in early September, a 3-1 league win over Livingston, and has since been managed diligently back to fitness by Steven Gerrard and his medical team.
Kent reckons he is still only 85 per cent fit, but it’s enough to win the confidence of his gaffer ahead of Thursday's Europa League clash against Porto.
It was his deft flick to Borna Barisic in the Estadio Do Dragao a fortnight ago that gave the Croatian space to deliver the cross for Alfredo Morelos to net the equaliser in the 1-1 draw.
Gerrard will be hoping for more moments of magic as his side look for the three points that would plant a firm foot in the last 32 - and Kent is determined to deliver.
He said: “I do love these European nights, the scale of the game, the top-level football.
“Personally, it’s the level where I want to test my ability, up against top teams and top players.
“They’re the best kind of games because they create a really big atmosphere. The fans love it and, as players, these are the games we also relish.
“I do respond to it. If you can play in front of the kind of atmosphere generated at Ibrox, it brings out the best in anybody. And yes, it does take it up a notch on European nights, definitely.
“It was quite deflating to pull my muscle the way I did on my return against Livingston.
“However, I’m ready to make my mark again. I’m feeling better, feeling more fit, so the best is yet to come.
“I’m getting closer to 90 minutes and it’s a case of monitoring my injury at the moment.
“My muscles are still recovering from what I went through, so it’s just about keeping ticking over until I’m ready for a full game.
“It has been very difficult to stay patient. I want to turn out in every game, play as many minutes as possible, but we’re just being cautious at the moment.
“The hamstring is probably the most common injury for reasonably fast players. It’s the third time I’ve done it now, so I can’t really afford to do it a fourth time.
“That’s why I’m being extra cautious this time around. Probably, in the past, I’ve rushed to be back playing games and things haven’t gone to plan.
“The manager is educating me on when I can and cannot be involved. If it was down to me, I would probably play in every game, even if I wasn’t fit.
“His word is final, but as I’m growing up it’s important to manage my body.”
Rangers failed to make the last 32 of the Europa League last season, in part, because of two costly home draws against Villarreal and Spartak Moscow in the group stage.
They are well positioned to set the record straight as they bid for maximum points at Ibrox against the Portuguese and Young Boys that would guarantee European football beyond Christmas for the first time since 2011.
They made the last 16 that time around before losing 1-0 on aggregate to PSV Eindhoven and Kent insists Rangers are better equipped to emerge from Group G this time around than last.
He added: “We were quite unfortunate last season because we put in some good performances and just fell short towards the end.
“We’re in a good position as it stands this time and we’ve shown we can match it up against top teams. Our performance away at Porto was very good, professional and we acquitted ourselves very well.
“There’s no denying Porto are a top team, but we didn’t back down from the challenge over there, especially in the second half.
“There is a big confidence in the team that we can go and achieve something this season.
“The fans will make it a great atmosphere in Europe and it’s down to us to go and put on a performance.”
Kent’s pace and wing trickery kept Porto on the back foot in the first game and his turn of speed helped seal the Betfred Cup semi-final at Hampden when he left Aaron Hickey for dead before setting up Alfredo Morelos for the third goal.
Rangers fans have hailed Kent in song, paraphrasing the old Joy Division hit, and he loves being idolised as much as he adores assisting goals for others.
He added: “The fan chant? It gives me a buzz every time I hear it. Just to have a song at a football club’s massive, but at this football club it’s even better.
"As a winger, I also appreciate I have two players in Alfredo and Jermain Defoe who are relishing their time in front of goal.
"We have the best of both worlds and it’s up to me to provide the opportunities on which they thrive.
"But it would also be massive for me to score as adding numbers to my game is one of my big aims.
"However, if I’m creating chances for others, that’s the main thing - and others are putting goals away for fun at the moment."
