
# GB coach Wayne Bennett insists Lions are on the up despite New Zealand defeat

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:36:09+00:00**

Author: **Julie Stott**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-league/gb-coach-wayne-bennett-insists-20793630)

Ryan Hall is likely to miss Great Britain's return fixture with New Zealand after dislocating his knee.
The winger's knee popped back in but it's the same knee he injured playing for Sydney Roosters earlier in the season.
Lions coach Wayne Bennett said Hall isn't expected to play in Christchurch next Saturday, explaining: "I doubt it if he says his knee came out."
Hall is one of only two wingers in the squad but Bennett said: "I don't know if we can bring any more players in."
 
Great Britain lost 12-8 to the Kiwis at Eden Park in Auckland, on the back of a 14-6 defeat by Tonga in Hamilton.
Bennett said: "We probably should have had two tries in the last five minutes but didn't get them.
"The first half was a pretty dismal game of football. Completions were high but there was just nothing happening.
"We sorted a few things out at half time and stuck to it in the second half. We were sticking to it In the first half but our halves could probably have been doing a lot more than they were.
"They got that right in the second half and there was a lot more ball movement and better football and gave ourselves a chance."
Bennett insists he's not concerned that the Lions have only scored two tries in the two defeats, saying: "I'm not going to lose any sleep over that.
"The opposition only scored two as well. There was a lucky one last week from Tonga and there's one out there today that we should probably have held up. The bottom line is no-one is scoring a lot of tries.
"Last week we didn't make any opportunities to score tries, today we had opportunities to score tries. That's the difference. We're on the up."
Bennett handed Lions debuts to Joe Philbin, try-scorer Daryl Clark and Jake Connor and said: "I thought they were all pretty good.
"Clark has always been good when he's got the opportunities and I thought he was good in the 25 minute stint he had."
