
# Report | Niko Kovac showed the exit door at Bayern Munich

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:24:10+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/04/report-niko-kovac-showed-the-exit-door-at-bayern-munich?utm_medium=rss)


        Bayern Munich have decided to part ways with Niko Kovac after the manager has failed to dominate Bundesliga this term. The German champions faced humiliation as they lost 5-1 to Eintracht Frankfurt at Commerzbank Arena, a match that acted as the final nail in the coffin for Kovac’s sacking.
      
Croatian Niko Kovac has been sacked by Bayern Munich after Kovac and the club hierarchy had a showdown meeting yesterday discussing the shocking 5-1 loss to Eintracht Frankfurt, as reported by the Sun. The disturbing 5-1 loss was Kovac’s second loss in Bundesliga and third this season, but the German club has failed to dominate Bundesliga in their usual way leading Kovac getting axed. However, according to Bayern’s twitter handle, the former Croatia coach and the club parted ways mutually.
With Kovac’s sacking, club president Uli Hoeness and chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge are evaluating the possible candidates who could succeed Kovac at Allianz Arena. The Sun’s report further added that Ajax’s Erik Ten Hag is admired by the club chiefs and could be the front runner for the job. However, Ten Hag signed a new contract with Ajax at the start of the season and it is unlikely that he’ll leave the Dutch champions in the middle of the season. Former Manchester United coach Jose Mourinho has also been linked as the search for a new job continues for the Portuguese. 
Apart from Mourinho and Ten Hag, former Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger’s name has also come up as a potential replacement for Kovac. The Bavarians sit fourth in the Bundesliga table and are four points adrift of leaders Borussia Monchengladbach. The supporters had been demanding Kovac’s sacking after a dismal start to the league. Kovac himself offered to resign following the loss to Frankfurt. The former Eintracht Frankfurt boss thanked Bayern for the opportunity and praised the fans.
“I think this is the right decision for the club at the moment. The results, and also the way we last played, made me come to that decision. My brother Robert and I thank Bayern for the last one and a half years. During this time, our team has won the championship, the DFB Cup and the Supercup. It was a good time. I wish the club and the team all the best,” said Kovac.
