
# LA Chargers’ Dean Spanos Uses Salty Language In Denying Rumors That London Is Calling

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jay Paris**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jayparis/2019/11/06/la-chargers-dean-spanos-uses-salty-language-in-denying-rumors-that-london-is-calling/)

The Los Angeles Chargers are preparing for their final trip to play at the Oakland Raiders with a compelling question tagging along: Is L.A. the team’s Black Hole?That’s hardly a new take as the Chargers have struggled to find a foothold, three years since relocating from San Diego. Their obstacles to build a fan base in L.A. are ongoing, but for the first time the tales of their woes come with an international flair.
Tally ho, chap, might the Chargers be planting their flag in London?
That narrative saw light on Tuesday in a report by The Athletic’s Vinny Bonsignore. It was followed by a quick stream of obscenities from Chargers chairman Dean Spanos, the speed of which rivaled how quickly his quarterback, Philip Rivers, gets rid of the football.
What Rivers never does is communicate in a manner that would have his mother reaching for a bar of soap. But Spanos unloaded a string of obscenities that might make a sailor blush.
“It’s total (bleeping) bull (bleep),’’ Spanos told beat reporters. “We’re not going to London. We’re not going anywhere. We’re playing in Los Angeles. This is our home, and this is where we are planning to be for a long (bleeping) time. Period, OK?’’ And if you want me to say it again, I’ll say it again.’’
Spanos went on with a dialogue of salty language. The message was clear that Spanos was ticked off with yet another round of speculation that his Chargers were going off-and-running somewhere else.
Every now and again those rumblings include San Diego, their home for 56 seasons.
Fred Maas, the Chargers’ chief of staff, torpedoed that chatter recently by telling forbes.com that the chances were better of them playing in his “swimming pool” than San Diego.
Sometimes St. Louis is mentioned, the city the Rams showed their backside to when hitting the door.
San Antonio has always been a speculative landing spot for the Chargers, a squad seemingly aching for a sweet home.
Some offered that the London story was planted by the Rams, as they continue to mumble about how much, or how little, the Chargers are bringing to the SoFi Stadium table.
The splashy venue in the $5 billion entertainment complex opens next year for both teams in nearby Inglewood. The Chargers’ peddling of personal seat licenses - with a share of it going to construction costs – is about as productive as its running game was for the four games before it was resurrected in Sunday’s win over the Green Bay Packers.
But the Chargers aren’t packing for any foreign jaunts, so says Spanos, save their Nov. 18 date with the Kansas City Chiefs in Mexico City.
Even the NFL felt compelled to weigh in that the heavy lifting the Chargers are doing to become relevant in L.A.’s crowded sports landscape won’t be for naught. That includes any thoughts of them skedaddling to the United Kingdom.
“There is no substance whatsoever to this report. No consideration has been given to the Chargers playing anywhere other than Los Angeles at the new stadium in Hollywood Park next season and beyond.’’
Unlike Spanos’, the NFL’s wording in its statement wasn’t one that matched the Chargers’ color scheme of blue.
