
# Barcelona 'enter Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang transfer race' and consider January move

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:07:16+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/barcelona-enter-pierre-emerick-aubameyang-20834572)

Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has been linked with an exit if the club do not secure a return to Champions League football.
And reports in Spain suggest Barcelona have now expressed an interest in the striker - with a possibility they make an ambitious move in January.
Aubameyang, appointed new Gunners captain to replace Granit Xhaka this week, is keeping his options open and is yet to commit his long-term future at the Emirates.
He has been linked with a move to Spain as both Real Madrid and Barcelona look to bolster their attacking options.
According to El Chiringuito , Aubameyang is on Barcelona's radar as a potential replacement for Luis Suarez as the Uruguayan, 32, approaches the latter stages of his career and struggles for form.
They are keen on a move when Aubameyang decides on his future at the end of the season.
But with Antoine Griezmann struggling to adapt after his summer transfer and preferred out wide by manager Ernesto Valverde, they could contemplate a January approach.
They are said to admire Aubameyang's peed and power, which have helped him strike 50 goals already for Arsenal since joining from Borussia Dortmund in January 2018.
It has recently been claimed Arsenal have promised to listen to offers if he decides he wants to leave, but former transfer chief Sven Mislintat previously suggested his selfless attitude might not be a good fit at Real Madrid or Barcelona.
"He is one, possibly the only one, of these extraordinary top, top, top strikers who is an absolute team player,” Mislintat said recently.
"A striker like Neymar or (Sergio) Aguero, for example, would never give a penalty to (Nicolas) Pepe to score his first goal. It’s vice versa — ‘Come on, I will take this penalty kick, nobody else!’
"Auba gave the chance to Pepe. His instinct was, ‘Let’s score and let’s go forward together.’ He takes care about his team-mates.
“Since he joined Arsenal, he played where he was asked and needed, and so he helped especially (Alexandre) Lacazette to adapt to the Premier League.
"Maybe this attitude costs him to play for clubs like Real Madrid or Barcelona but maybe they made a mistake not to go for him. I like his mindset. It is good for a team’s atmosphere.”
