
# Expect Bidding War For Free Agents Donaldson, Rendon, Moustakas

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dan Schlossberg**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/danschlossberg/2019/11/02/expect-bidding-war-for-free-agents-donaldson-rendon-moustakas/)

Even though the 2019 baseball season is over, the hot corner is getting hotter.Among position players, this winter’s hottest free agents all play the same one: third base.
In the National League East alone, all five teams face free-agent defections that could be catastrophic to their hopes for better things to come in 2020.
Among those on the market are Anthony Rendon, who led the National League with 44 doubles and 126 runs batted in while batting a robust .319 for the World Champion Washington Nationals.
Like Rendon, who also hit a career-best 34 home runs, Josh Donaldson packs plenty of righthanded power (37 home runs and 94 rbi for the Atlanta Braves). If Nolan Arenado weren’t in the same league, Donaldson could even add a Gold Glove to his trophy shelf this month.
Also on the open market are Todd Frazier, who hit 21 home runs for the New York Mets, and Maikel Franco, whose home run total (17 with the 2019 Philadelphia Phillies) has declined for four straight seasons.
And don’t forget Starlin Castro, who played the complete 162-game schedule for the Miami Marlins while playing every infield position but first base. His 22 home runs were the best total he’s produced during his 10-year career.
Franco, at 27, has age on his side but Rendon, 30, has the best chance to get a contract rich in both dollars and years.
The Nationals want to keep the core of their club intact but may have to overpay for Rendon – and perhaps not have enough dollars left to prevent star pitcher Stephen Strasburg, the 2019 World Series MVP, from exercising the “out” clause in his contract.
Although the Braves want to keep Donaldson in Atlanta, his age (34) and injury history (a combined 165 games played in 2017-18) probably preclude the long-term security he seeks. On the other hand, he’s a Florida native who attended Auburn and grew up rooting for the Braves.
Donaldson also has close ties with Braves general manager Alex Anthopoulos, who took a gamble last year in signing him to a $23 million contract – the biggest one-year deal ever given a free agent.
They were previously together in Toronto, where Anthopoulos was the GM and Donaldson won the 2015 American League MVP trophy after setting career peaks with 41 homers and 123 runs batted in. He also led the league with 122 runs scored, a total he matched a year later.
Also on the free-agent market, for the third year in a row, is Mike Moustakas, a lefthanded hitter coming off a 35-homer campaign for the Milwaukee Brewers. Moustakas, who played for the World Champion Kansas City Royals in 2015, is still just 31, though it seems like he’s been around forever (at least on the free agent market).
Milwaukee, which lost a 4-3 verdict to Washington in the National League wild-card game, must decide whether to keep Moustakas or catcher Yasmani Grandal, a switch-hitting catcher with power who is also a free agent.
The Brewers just don’t have enough in their budget for both – and could wind up without either.
The Texas Rangers, on the other hand, are desperate to plug the enormous third-base void created when Adrian Beltre, a future Hall of Famer, took his 477 home runs into retirement after the 2019 season. The Rangers, opening a new ballpark in 2020, will have the revenue to attract top-of-the-line free agents to a ballpark reputed to be hitter-friendly.
There are lots of choices on the free-agent market, with quality ranging from elite to has-been. In addition to those already mentioned, possibilities include Asdrubal Cabrera, Caleb Cowart, Ryan Flaherty, Wilmer Flores, Jedd Gyorko, Jung Ho Kang, Eduardo Nunez, Martin Prado, Sean Rodriguez, Yangervis Solarte, Eric Sogard, Pablo Sandoval, and Ben Zobrist.
Here’s how things could shake out at the hot corner for contenders in need:
Atlanta Braves – There’s mutual interest on both sides in the Donaldson sweepstakes but the team could offer the younger Rendon a deal richer in years and dollars. Should that suceed, it would not only be a plus for the Braves but a minus for the Nationals, who finished just four games behind in the NL East title chase. Atlanta might also attempt to land Miguel Andujar, injured most of 2019 after a brilliant debit the year before, from the Yankees. Failing on both the trade and free-agent front, manager Brian Snitker will pit versatile Johan Camargo, a switch-hitter sidelined by injury during the playoffs, against strikeout-prone slugger Austin Riley, who jumped to a hot start in May before fizzling. Third base is his best position.
Milwaukee Brewers – With Grandal almost certainly too rich to retain, look for Milwaukee to make a multi-year monetary pitch to Moustakas, who showed his versatility last year by playing 47 games at second. Travis Shaw, who had successive 30-homer seasons for the Brewers before slipping last summer, is still in the picture too.
New York Mets – Jed Lowrie, a 36-year-old switch-hitter with power, played only nine games after signing as a free agent last year. Although the Mets will make bids for both Donaldson and Rendon, a more realistic idea would be playing Jeff McNeil at third, rather than the outfield, and letting Lowrie and holdover Robinson Cano share second.
Philadelphia Phillies – Because they play half their schedule in a bandbox, and because they showed last winter they have money to burn, the Phils have a good chance to land Rendon, Donaldson, or Moustakas via free agency. Frazier, who lives in South Jersey, could revert to his old 30-homer form if given enough at-bats – but any of the top three third basemen could top 40. The Phils would be thrilled to take away a star from the Nats for the second straight winter.
St. Louis Cardinals – After finishing just two games ahead of the Brewers and seven ahead of the Cubs, the Cards see third base as a good spot to boost the batting attack. At 34, Matt Carpenter seems best-suited to be a utilityman, filling in at the infield corners, and pinch-hitter. But would the Cards ante up for the likes of Rendon or Donaldson? They tried for the latter last winter.
Washington Nationals – The Nats have never hesitated to spend, with Max Scherzer and Patrick Corbin prime examples, but let Harper walk when his demands became excessive. If the same happens with Rendon, as appears likely, they could sign Donaldson for less or Moustakas for a lot less. Being a World Champion has its advantages – even for a wild-card team.
Texas Rangers – After finishing 29 games behind the cross-state Houston Astros in the American League West, the up-and-coming Rangers need to replace Beltre’s bat and glove. Rendon and Donaldson both meet that description but could be prohibitively expensive. Moustakas and Frazier are further down the club’s wish list but within the realm of possibility.
