
# POLITICO Playbook: Robert Mueller's long tail

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:10:51+00:00**

Author: **Blake Hounshell**

Original: [POLITICO](https://www.politico.com/newsletters/playbook/2019/11/03/the-mueller-reports-long-tail-487575)

Presented by
YOU THOUGHT THE MUELLER REPORT WAS OVER, didn’t you? Well, yesterday, BuzzFeed’s Jason Leopold -- a level 19 FOIA ninja -- and his colleagues got their hands on detailed summaries of the interviews three Trump aides gave to the FBI, known as “302 reports,” along with other documents. And while they don’t appreciably change our understanding of the Russiagate scandal, they do add a layer of texture to what we already knew. The memos, via BuzzFeed
Some key nuggets:
-- PAUL MANAFORT pushed the false idea that Ukraine, not Russia, had hacked the DNC emails. And even after his firing, he was still in touch with top campaign officials up to Election Day, though campaign ‘CEO’ Steve Bannon warned in an email to Jared Kushner: “We need to avoid this guy like the plague.” More from WaPo’s Roz Helderman and Spencer Hsu
-- TRUMP asked aides to get Hillary Clinton’s ‘missing’ emails. At one point, former Manafort deputy Rick Gates said, Michael Flynn said he’d use his contacts in the intelligence world to get them. This was all in the Mueller report, but seeing it laid out by Gates is striking.
-- BANNON told the FBI that Kushner and Ivanka Trump vacationed in Croatia during the campaign with an unnamed Russian billionaire, and that he asked them to return home so that Kushner could fire Manafort.
KEEP IN MIND, too, that the trial of longtime Trump aide ROGER STONE begins on Tuesday. Many of the redactions in the Mueller report were meant to protect his ongoing case.
SATURDAY NIGHT’S ALRIGHT FOR FIGHTING … AP’S JONATHAN LEMIRE IN NEW YORK: “Politics can be a bruising business. But President Donald Trump took a break from battling the Democrats’ impeachment inquiry to watch another bloodsport Saturday, drawing a mixed response at a UFC match at a raucous Madison Square Garden.
“Both loud boos and cheers could be heard as Trump, joined by his adult sons, Don Jr. and Eric, as well as several congressional Republicans, took their seats ahead of the pay-per-view mixed martial arts match. … Trump has longstanding ties to the UFC and sat just a few rows from the cage, where fighters took turns bloodying each other with a variety of kicks and punches.” AP … Epic pic of Trump and actor Josh Duhamel staring at a scantily clad placard holder
-- WITH TRUMP: Reps. Kevin McCarthy (Calif.), Peter King (N.Y.) and Mark Meadows (N.C.) … McCarthy’s gram from Air Force One
SUNDAY BEST ... NOTE: The president urged Republicans to defend him on the substance of impeachment, not just the process, and some of them are now doing that. For what it's worth.

          Rep. Steve Scalise (R-La.) on ABC's "This Week" with George Stephanopoulos:
        
STEPHANOPOULOS: You just heard Chairman Engel right there saying you all are moving the goal post, that President Trump is going to have the same rights that President Clinton and President Nixon had once it gets to the Judiciary Committee.
SCALISE: Well good morning, George. And there were a lot of things there that need to be unraveled. First of all, this is nothing like the Clinton and the Nixon impeachment. Both sides got to call witnesses under Clinton and under Nixon. The president's legal counsel was in the room, able to ask questions to the witnesses --
STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, the president’s going to have that right in the Judiciary Committee, isn’t he?
SCALISE: Well there’s no guarantee of that.

          Kellyanne Conway on CNN's "State of the Union" with Dana Bash:
        
CONWAY: Where was there a quid pro quo?
BASH: I’m asking you, was there one.
CONWAY: President Trump never said to the Ukrainian president, do this and you’ll get your aid, it’s simply not here.
BASH: So it didn’t happen?
CONWAY: Nobody ever thought we’d release the transcript. Ladies and gentlemen, you can all see it. Go read it.

          Rep. Jim Himes (D_TK) on "Fox News Sunday" with Chris Wallace:
        
HIMES: "My best guess, Chris, is that you’ll see the public hearings start sometime within the next two or three weeks. Remember you can’t be precise about this because we need to interview a few more witnesses before we’re in a position to do public hearings. But I—my best guess is that in the next two or three weeks there will be public televised hearings"

          Andrew Yang on NBC's "Meet the Press" with Chuck Todd:
        
TODD: “Do you think that what the president did is of such an egregious act that he shouldn't be on the ballot in 2020?"
YANG: “I am for impeachment, but the fact is when we're talking about Donald Trump we are not presenting a new way forward and a positive vision for the country that Americans will get excited about. That's the only way we're going to win in 2020 and that’s the only way we’re actually going to start actually solving the problems that got him elected. Even when we're talking about impeaching Donald Trump, we're talking about Donald Trump and we are losing.”
Good Sunday morning. We’re a year out from Election Day. Set back your clocks and gird your loins for a wild year.

          JOHN F. HARRIS: “The 7 Big Bets that will decide who wins the White House in 2020”
        
-- “Death knell or $1 million idea? Trump’s campaign tries to turn gaffes into gold,” by Gabby Orr: “Donald Trump’s reelection campaign is making due with what they have: a pile of cash that has left Democrats with dropped jaws and a candidate who delights in making jaw-dropping comments.
“For months, the president’s top campaign aides have been monitoring media reactions to his speeches, press gaggles and personal tweets, quietly hunting for the next gaffe they can spin into gold. Something draws the ire of establishment Washington? Easy target, said one senior campaign official. The president proposes a bizarre merchandise idea during a rally? We have it up ‘before he leaves the stage,’ recalled another.” POLITICO
-- “Inside Beto O’Rourke’s collapse,” by David Siders in Des Moines: “The proximate cause of O’Rourke’s fall was not in the unorthodox things he did. His meandering, solo road trip through the Southwest, the livestreaming of his dentist visit, even the infamous ‘born to be in it’ Vanity Fair cover — which he later said he regretted — all happened before O’Rourke cratered.
“Rather, it was everything he didn’t do — rendering him an object lesson in the familiar limits of charisma, the liability of high expectations and the importance of organization.” POLITICO
NOBODY COULD EVER HAVE PREDICTED THIS -- “Smugglers are sawing through new sections of Trump’s border wall,” by WaPo’s Nick Miroff “Smuggling gangs in Mexico have repeatedly sawed through new sections of President Trump’s border wall in recent months by using commercially available power tools, opening gaps large enough for people and drug loads to pass through, according to U.S. agents and officials with knowledge of the damage.
“The breaches have been made using a popular cordless household tool known as a reciprocating saw that retails at hardware stores for as little as $100. When fitted with specialized blades, the saws can slice through one of the barrier’s steel-and-concrete bollards in minutes, according to the agents, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the barrier-defeating techniques.” WaPo
-- TRUMP REACTS, per pooler Todd Gilman of the Dallas Morning News: “I haven't heard that. We have a very powerful wall. But no matter how powerful, you can cut through anything, in all fairness. But we have a lot of people watching. You know cutting, cutting is one thing, but it's easily fixed. One of the reasons we did it the way we did it, it's very easily fixed. You put the chunk back in. But we have a very powerful wall. But you can cut through any wall.”
IMMIGRATION FILES -- “A Federal Judge Temporarily Blocked Trump’s Plan To Block Immigrants From Entering The U.S. Without Proving They Could Get Health Insurance,” by BuzzFeed’s Hamed Aleaziz
IMPEACHMENT LATEST … NANCY COOK: “Top national security aide Robert Blair won't testify Monday, citing White House direction”: “Robert Blair participated in the July 25 call between President Donald Trump and the Ukrainian president, which triggered enough concern among some national security officials that one filed a whistleblower complaint and set into motion the Democrats' impeachment proceedings.
“Blair’s attorney, Whit Ellerman, said Blair would not appear on Monday ‘pursuant to direction from the White House, which is based on advice from the Department of Justice.’ When asked if Blair would appear if Democrats subpoenaed him, Ellerman said he would not and that ‘direction from the White House and advice from DOJ cover subpoena.’” POLITICO
-- “Impeachment bears down on Susan Collins,” by Burgess Everett: “Her reelection contest is already on track to be the state’s most expensive race ever. And Trump is eager to compete for the state’s four Electoral College votes with a campaign aimed at white, working-class voters.
“If she votes to acquit the president, the state’s resurgent Democratic Party and its national allies are likely to clobber her as out of step with the state’s light blue hue. And if she votes to remove Trump from office after a Senate trial, she’ll risk dampening support from the conservative base and raising the ire of the president himself.
“Still, impeachment also offers an opportunity for Collins to emphasize her independence at a time of deep polarization and a crucial moment in history.” POLITICO
-- "Whistleblower willing to answer Republicans' questions in impeachment probe, lawyer says," by CBS News' Margaret Brennan
TRUMP’S SUNDAY -- As of yesterday’s guidance the president was scheduled to depart Trump Tower at 10 a.m. and arrive back at the White House at 12:05 p.m. Eastern time. He has no events scheduled.

          The president's week ahead:
        
Monday: The president meets with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, then welcomes the Nats at the White House. Later, he'll deliver remarks at a campaign rally in Lexington, Ky.
Wednesday: The president delivers remarks on judicial nominees, then flies to Monroe, Louisiana, for a campaign rally.
Thursday: The president presents the Presidential Citizens Medal, then delivers remarks at a fundraiser in Washington, D.C.
Friday: The president holds a roundtable with supporters,, then speaks at a fundraising luncheon in Atlanta, Ga.
365 days and counting. We are officially one year away from Election Day 2020. Are you ready for the most important election of our lifetime? POLITICO Pro is gearing up by adding more news, more tools, better technology, all in one platform that is designed just for you. Learn more about how Pro gives you an edge in 2020 and beyond.
POLITICO MAGAZINE: “The Massacre That Spawned the Alt-Right”: “Forty years ago, a gang of Klansmen and Nazis murdered five communists in broad daylight. America has never been the same,” by Shaun Assel and Peter Keating

            CLICKER … NYT INTERACTIVE: “How Trump Reshaped the Presidency in Over 11,000 Tweets”
          
ACROSS THE POND -- “Nigel Farage says he will not fight a seat in U.K. election,” by Bjarke Smith-Meyer: “Farage told the BBC’s The Andrew Marr Show that not being tied to a constituency would mean he could campaign more effectively for the Brexit Party around the country.
“On Friday, U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson rejected Farage’s call to form a ‘Leave alliance’ between the two parties to prevent them from splitting the Brexit vote in constituencies where other parties who back Remaining in the EU could come through the middle ...
“In the absence of a pact with the Tories, Farage said his party would challenge every seat in England, Scotland and Wales.” POLITICO Europe
NYT’S MICHAEL CROWLEY and ERIC SCHMITT: “Russia Held Up an Ailing American Military Attaché From Leaving Moscow”: “Russian officials in August held up the evacuation from Moscow of a sick American military attaché to a hospital in Germany in the latest episode of a long-running campaign of harassment against American diplomats in Russia.
“Diplomatic protocols allow for the fast evacuation of diplomats facing medical emergencies. But the departure of the plane sent to evacuate the attaché was delayed for hours for no apparent reason despite protests from embassy officials and the State Department in Washington, according to several Trump administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a sensitive diplomatic issue that some other officials prefer to play down.
“The Russians eventually relented, and the American, a uniformed officer, was safely evacuated, the officials said.” NYT
-- “Netanyahu, a Steadfast Trump Ally, Urges U.S. to Stay Focused on Iran,” by WSJ’s Felicia Schwartz in Tel Aviv: “In recent weeks, current and former Israeli officials have repeated their calls for the U.S. to confront Tehran, even as Washington basks in the success of its recent raid targeting the head of Islamic State.
“Their calls reflect broad concerns about Mr. Trump’s attitude toward Iran that have intensified in recent months, following what Israeli officials viewed as muted responses to alleged Iranian attacks on oil tankers in the Gulf, the downing of an American drone, and a September attack, attributed to Iran, that knocked out about half of Saudi Arabia’s oil output.” WSJ
BONUS GREAT WEEKEND READS, curated by Daniel Lippman (@dlippman):
-- “A Cybersecurity Firm’s Sharp Rise and Stunning Collapse,” by The New Yorker’s Raffi Khatchadourian: “Tiversa dominated an emerging online market—before it was accused of fraud, extortion, and manipulating the federal government.” New Yorker
-- “Ibraheem Samirah Is Nowhere Near Done Messing With the Way Virginia Does Politics,” by Washingtonian’s Andrew Beaujon: “His style may feel like a major shift in the political norms of the state, but his story foretells its future.” Washingtonian
-- “How Does the Human Soul Survive Atrocity?” by Jennifer Percy in the NYT Magazine: “After the horror of ISIS captivity, tens of thousands of Iraqis — many of them children — are caught up in a mental-health crisis unlike any in the world.” NYT Magazine
-- “AI May Not Kill Your Job—Just Change It,” by Wired’s Sara Harrison: “A new paper from MIT and IBM’s Watson AI Lab shows that for most of us, the automation revolution probably won’t mean physical robots replacing human workers. Instead, it will come from algorithms. And while we won’t all lose our jobs, those jobs will change, thanks to artificial intelligence and machine learning.” Wired
-- “Ten Years Ago, I Called Out David Letterman. This Month, We Sat Down to Talk,” by Nell Scovell in Vanity Fair: “It’s not often that you speak truth to power and power responds, ‘Oops, sorry,’ writes former Letterman writer Nell Scovell.” VF (hat tip: Longreads.com)
-- “How the Trump Cabinet’s Bible Teacher Became a Shadow Diplomat,” by Mattathias Schwartz in the NYT Magazine: “Ralph Drollinger is on a mission to extend the influence he has in Washington around the world. Is he representing Jesus, the administration — or himself?” NYT Magazine
WOMEN RULE SUMMIT 2019 - It’s been a landmark year, but there’s still work to do. More women are serving in elected office, leading top corporations and rising to the top of their respective fields. As we prepare to what’s next in 2020, how will women continue to harness this momentum and propel this generational shift forward? At the Women Rule Summit on Dec. 10, POLITICO will explore the possibilities with a full day of empowering discussions and networking with inspiring, game-changing women. Request an invite today.
Send tips to Eli Okun and Garrett Ross at politicoplaybook@politico.com.
HAPPENING TODAY -- The funeral for former Sen. Kay Hagan (D-N.C.) will take place at 2 p.m., with the service livestreamed from Greensboro. Details … Livestream
SPOTTED: Norm Eisen at the Georgetown Apple store on Saturday morning.
TRANSITION -- TRUMP ALUMNI: Abe Goldschmidt is now senior director for strategic affairs at Oracle, working in their D.C. government affairs office. He previously was managing director for strategic investments at the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and is a Trump White House alum.
BIRTHDAYS: Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) is 72 … Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-Wash.) is 41 … Michael Dukakis is 86 … Anna Wintour … Charlie Hurt … CAA’s Rachel Adler … Natalie Johnson in Liz Cheney's office (hat tip: Tiana Lowe) ...vJames Kanter … Dennis Miller is 66 … O. Kay Henderson … former Rep. Lynn Woolsey (D-Calif.) is 82 … Evelyn Nieves … Katie Packer Beeson, founding partner of Burning Glass Consulting … Jared Rizzi (h/t Gena Wolfson) … Jeff Brownlee, research and communications strategist at Stand Together … Phyllis Cuttino of the Pew Charitable Trusts … Paul Brathwaite, chief strategist at Federal Street Strategies, is 49 (h/ts Jon Haber) … POLITICO’s Anthony Adragna, Renuka Rayasam and Ryan Hendrixson … Erica Moody … Gabby Adler … Amie Kershner … Quentin Fulks … Matthew Kirincic … Katie (Cook) Romano …
… Christie Stephenson, press secretary for Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.) … Kam Mumtaz, global communications at Tesla … Bob Van Heuvelen … Kelli Kedis Ogborn … Robina Suwol … Jack Weller … Robin (Levy) Gray, director of external comms for Southern Company Gas … Rowan Morris, director at Guggenheim Partners, is 34 … Minh-Thu Pham of the U.N. Foundation … Edelman’s Lauren Greco ... Anne Mahlum … Brian Babcock-Lumish ... Mindi Walker ... Chris Falls ... Ben Kirshner ... Christian Haines ... Pearce Godwin … Julian Baird Gewirtz ... Liz Rolnik ... Joe Cohen (h/t Nadia Szold) ... David Case ... Vinny Minchillo is 58 ... Jack McLaughlin ... Amy Rosenbaum … Scout Tufankjian … Shawn Rusterholz ... Christie Findlay … Mark Helmke … Rocco A. Mazza ... Barbara Zheutlin
