
# EICMA 2019: 180PS making 2020 KTM 1290 Super Duke R is here!

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:04:12+00:00**

Author: **Aditya Chatterjee  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/eicma-2019-180ps-making-2020-ktm-1290-super-duke-r-is-here/)

KTM has unveiled its new range of motorcycles at the EICMA 2019 show. While the most anticipated motorcycle from the Austrian brand has to be the KTM 390 Adventure that is coming to India by the end of this year, the company has also showcased the 2020 KTM 1290 Super Duke R. And yes, it is not coming to India! Among the important pointers of the 2020 KTM 1290 Super Duke R, it weighs 189kg dry, gets an exhaustive electronics suite along with keyless ignition and also gets top-of-the-line suspension set-up and brakes.
Going by the way it looks, KTM engineers have made sure the 2020 KTM 1290 Super Duke R looks extremely muscular with the sculpted fuel tank paired with extensions. Further, it gets five-spoke alloys and a chunky exhaust unit which looks absolutely stunning and unlike any other naked motorcycle in its segment. The 1,301cc V-Twin motor that is being offered on the 2020 KTM 1290 Super Duke R produces 180PS and 140Nm. In terms of electronics, the Super Duke comes with cruise control, four riding modes, engine brake control, supermoto ABS, tyre pressure monitoring system, all of which can be controlled with the help of a TFT digital instrument cluster along with BT connectivity.
The official release mentions, the KTM 1290 Super Duke R has been 're-Beasted'. KTM's flagship bike has won rave reviews by catering for the preferences and skills of a vast number of motorcyclists and has undergone its most radical re-invention yet for 2020. A completely new chassis, styling, and electronics mean that the KTM 1290 Super Duke R has trimmed weight across the board, while a reworked LC8 engine has unleashed even more power.

        Also read,
      

        Live Updates: All the action from EICMA 2019
      
