
# UFC 244’s Jorge Masvidal vows to beat ‘coward’ Colby Covington worse than Ben Askren

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Mckeever**

Original: [Bloody Elbow](https://www.bloodyelbow.com/2019/11/1/20943487/ufc-244-mma-news-interview-jorge-masvidal-colby-covington-ben-askren-nate-diaz-fight)

Jorge Masvidal and Colby Covington might be longtime teammates at American Top Team (ATT), but they’re not friends — at least not anymore.
Masvidal and Covington had a public fallout earlier this year, and the two welterweights have been at each other’s throats ever since.
In person, however, ‘Gamebred’ claims ‘Chaos’ hides from him on the street because he is a coward.
”I go where he eats and wait for him,” Masvidal said ahead of his highly anticipated ‘BMF’ title bout with Nate Diaz at UFC 244, per MMA Fighting’s Jose Youngs and Steven Marrocco. “He doesn’t eat at these places no more, because I’m going there to eat, and this little b*tch is nowhere to be seen. These are places that he constantly used to eat at. He knows that I know, so I’ve been at these places, just wanting to have a talk with him, man to man.
”I heard he’s only doing Uber Eats. Not like I’m going to assault him or nothing. That’s not me. I just want to talk to him man to man.
”My argument with Dan and the company is, we’re both men, we both know how to defend ourselves,” he continued. “When I see him, and he sees me, let’s just handle it, and let it be what it is, because that is my city, and I’m very polite to him. Because with the snap of fingers, I could have five cars packed to the teeth with individuals that make sure he never comes back. I don’t do that. I want to handle it man to man. He won’t give me that. I really want to talk to him and tell him, ‘What is your f*cking problem?’ He won’t do that. He’s a coward.
”Just like (UFC welterweight Tyron) Woodley says, he hides in corners when he was at the gym, that’s what he does. But when (the media) is around and a couple security guards, man, that dude is a pitbull all of a sudden.”
Masvidal, who is hoping to fight the winner of Usman vs. Covington, wants to put a bigger beating on Covington than he did to Ben Askren at UFC 239, which saw the ex-street fighter KO ‘Funky’ with a flying knee at 0:05 of the first round, setting the record for the fastest knockout in UFC history.
“A lot of people said that what I did to Ben (Askren) was a little uncalled for,” Masvidal said. “Nah, it wasn’t. What I’m going to do to Colby is going to be uncalled for, and I can put my life on that.”
UFC 244: Masvidal vs. Diaz takes place tomorrow, Nov. 2 at Madison Square Garden, New York. Just over one month later, on Dec. 14, Usman will defend his welterweight title against Covington in the UFC 245 main event at T-Mobile Arena, Las Vegas.

        View all 38 stories
      
