
# Silent vigil continues outside Achill hotel as locals issue statement

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:16:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/01/4181804-silent-vigil-continues-outside-achill-hotel-as-locals-issue-statement/)

Residents of Pollagh, Achill, have issued a press release confirming that a silent vigil is continuing today outside the Achill Head Hotel.
It follows the statement released yesterday evening by the Department of Justice that plans to house asylum eeekers in emergency accommodation in the Achill Head, Pollagh. have been put on pause.
The press release reads: “A meeting took place on Wednesday night between department officials and representatives from the village of Pollagh following a week of uncertainty, lack of consultation and no communication with the residents of the area.
“At the meeting concerns were voiced around the way that the department had handled the situation to date and the secrecy that surrounded the property being used as emergency accommodation.
“News broke amongst locals last Wednesday morning, October 23, that a contract was in place between the Achill Head Hotel and the Department of Justice to house up to 38 asylum seekers in emergency accommodation in the property for a period of 3 months. It was also confirmed that these people were all male.
“This news was met with huge concerns and local residents began a silent vigil outside the property at 6 a.m. on the morning of Thursday, October 24.
“The vigil continued around the clock until Saturday afternoon when a meeting took place with the hotel owner and local residents who assured them that he would go back to the Department on Tuesday morning and ask for his contract to be renegotiated and instead would seek a small number of families to be housed at the property.
“After this meeting, residents stood down the vigil and waited for confirmation from the Department on Tuesday morning that they had been contacted by the Hotel Owner to renegotiate the existing contract that was in place.
“Unfortunately by 12.30 p.m. this phone call has not happened and because of the concern of 38 men who had already been in Ireland for 30 weeks, due to arrive the next day and with lack of correspondence regarding their arrival, we decided to reinstate our silent vigil at the Achill Head Hotel.
“Following the recommencement of the vigil, it was reported that the Department agreed to meet with a selected number of residents (up to a maximum of 10 people only) on Wednesday, October 30, so they could voice their concerns.
“This also was accompanied by a sudden change in the type of asylum seekers that were to be housed at the hotel and fresh concerns rose amongst the residents around the welfare of these people and again they voiced their opinion that the site was not suitable.
“An email sent to the hotel owner from the department and displayed in the window of the hotel stated that 13 female asylum seekers were to arrive at the said property on Friday, November 1, and in the following days, a number of families would also be housed at the hotel in emergency accommodation.
“But no official message or confirmation came to the local residents of the area causing great uncertainty and disbelief. It appears that at no point, an offer was made to the residents at the meeting on Wednesday night, nor at their site visit to the hotel property on Thursday morning that this emergency accommodation would be for 13 female asylum seekers only.
“As far as local residents are aware, the contract that is in place between the hotel owner and the department is for 38 people for a maximum of three months.
“It was confirmed at the meeting by the Department of Justice to local residents that none of the three representatives from the Reception and Integration Agency and department had never visited Achill and nor had the local gardaí, GP’s and schools been contacted about the arrival of the 38 new Asylum Seekers.
“At the meeting with the Department of Justice on Wednesday, October 30, the officials confirmed that they had entered into a contract with the owner of the Achill Head Hotel where 38 asylum seekers were to be placed in emergency accommodation for the next three months.
“We as a group asked the department what plans had been put in place for the arrival of these people and what services they would need to access when being housed in the hotel.
“The department confirmed to us that these asylum seekers would be placed in the accommodation starting on November 1and the contract was on a bed and board basis only so when they arrived at the hotel, they would be responsible for fending for themselves.
“This caused huge concern amongst us for the welfare of these asylum seekers and we enquired if any of the people had undergone a vulnerability assessment (which is part of Irish and EU law for all asylum seekers to be assessed on arrival into Ireland) to which we were informed they had not.
“We also expressed our concerns regarding the vulnerability of the females of the group and how shocked we felt that this vulnerable group would be left with no support or protection by the government.
“Representatives at the meeting also confirmed that those officials present had not carried out a full inspection of the property.
“In response to this, the residents presented the officials with a number of recent photographs taken at the property which clearly showed several health and safety issues at the site that would be a huge risk to females and children living at the hotel for a prolonged period of time.
“On Thursday morning, the same three officials arrived to the Achill Head Hotel to inspect the property and the health and safety issues outlined at the meeting.
“Following this inspection, the Department of Justice issued their statement last night which confirmed they would not be sending the asylum seekers to the Hotel.
“At no stage was our silent vigil intimidating in any shape or form. It was made up completely of local residents from all over Achill who have huge concerns surrounding the suitability of the Hotel for long term use of these vulnerable people.
“Our village will increase from 76 to 114 people which is a 50% population increase. Our concerns and anger also lie with the Irish Government who have continuously kept us in the dark regarding the matter and who failed to consult with us regarding a suitable plan for any help or support for the asylum seekers on their arrival to Achill and our fears and concerns about the vulnerability of the group.
“Our message remains the same - we are not opposed to having asylum seekers in our community, but what we are opposed to, is the lack of consultation from the department around this matter and safety concerns that the site is not suitable for this group of people to be housed in.
“We look forward to continued negotiations with the Department of Justice in the coming days regarding the next steps.
“In the meantime, our local community will keep up our silent vigil and until we have a full and transparent communication from the department about the plans they have put in place regarding the welfare of the asylum seekers and proper amenities for them to access whilst here in Achill - we will continue with our vigil.
“Local residents would again like to clarify that at no stage did the Reception and Integration Agency or the Department of Justice put any offer to them that this contract would be changed or reissued in any shape or form to state that only 13 women would be accommodated in the emergency accommodation as stated and reported in several media channels both yesterday evening and this morning.”
