
# EICMA 2019: Harley-Davidson's first ever adventure tourer and streetfighter have broken cover!

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:19:45+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/eicma-2019-harley-davidsons-first-ever-adventure-tourer-and-streetfighter-have-broken-cover/)

Before Harley-Davidson announced its "More Roads to Harley-Davidson" program back in July 2018, we had never conjured images of a muscular streetbike or an adventure tourer from Harley-Davidson, replete with knobbly tyres! Sketches were revealed back and then, finally, the fabled American cruiser maker has showcased prototypes, of the 2021 Harley-Davidson Pan America and 2021 Harley-Davidson Bronx. And we're excited, to say the least. The motorcycles will be the first to be powered by Harley-Davidson's all-new Revolution Max engines, which notably are 60 degree V-twin, unlike the 45-degree V-twins the brand is known for. Interestingly though, this isn't the first time Harley is using a 60 degree V-twin configuration as the same was offered on the Harley-Davidson V-Rod as well.
The Pan America will be powered by the larger engine, an all-new 1250cc V-twin motor and will effectively face off against the full-sized adventure tourers of the world like the BMW R 1250 GS, Ducati Multistrada 1260 and Triumph Tiger 1200. While Harley has not revealed specifications officially, the 1250cc engine powering the Pan America will offer over 145PS and 122Nm which is some serious power. Needless to say, we expect the bike to be equipped a modern electronics suite, similar to what is offered by the competition in its class.
The Harley-Davidson Bronx on the other hand will be powered by a smaller, 975cc V-twin engine, which will offer in excess of 115PS and 94Nm. The specifications put it in the same league as middleweight sport nakeds like the Kawasaki Z900, Suzuki GSX-S750 and Triumph Street Triple to name a few. Going by the images, the Bronx looks a lot brawnier than these motorcycles though and has the appearance of a full-blooded, litre-class sport naked. Harley-Davidson has also tied-up with Brembo to offer custom-made braking systems and Michelin to create co-branded tyres as it has, for most of its motorcycles. We're excited. The Pan America and Bronx are expected to be out in production form late in 2020 and are certainly two machines we're looking forward to riding next year.
