
# Teenager injured by thugs who threw firework rocket at him from passing cars

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:02:14+00:00**

Author: **Patrick Jack**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/teenager-injured-thugs-who-threw-20820887)

A teenager waiting at a bus stop was injured when thugs threw a firework at him from passing cars.
Joe Maskrey had just walked his girlfriend home when he was struck in the random attack in Rochdale.
He was struck in the leg and suffered burns with his mum saying she experienced an 'utter panic', reports the Manchester Evening News.
He has been left with muscle and nerve damage due to the attack.
Joanne Maskrey, from Milnrow, has now called for sales of fireworks to be restricted to organised displays or those with licenses.
Following the attack on Joe, Joanne, 50, said: "I just don’t understand what’s going through somebody’s head to do that.
"There was no permanent damage but it doesn’t take away from the fact that someone purposefully went out and did that - some mindless thuggery from people. It’s just one step away from a bullet. Inside is exactly the same - it’s an explosive."
 
Joe, 17, was waiting for a bus after walking his girlfriend home at around when a white car and a black car approached.
Joanne, a nursing assistant at Springhill Hospice, said: "He was just sat there and a car went past and slowed down and threw a firework out at him.
"Then a second one did the same. One of them hit him on the leg and exploded. He was in serious shock. He managed to get out of the way of the first one but not the second one.
"It was a totally random attack and they absolutely ambushed him.
They have seen a young lad on his own and thought they might be able to get their kicks from it."
Joanne raced to the scene to find him laid out on the grass. Thankfully he had no burns and the neighbours had rushed out to help and wrapped him in blankets.
The mother-of-four said she heard of another incident that same night and now fears more and more attacks like this will happen until the law is changed and only those with an official license can buy them.
She added: "It’s crazy - there’s just fireworks going off everywhere.
"I always got the impression that they (fireworks) were for people to enjoy but they should be banned."
Joanne worries about the psychological effect the attack could have as he has been reluctant to get the bus alone since.
She said: "This was an assault. It could have ended up so much worse - if he hadn’t thrown himself out of the way when it was thrown he would have been maimed and been very badly injured for life.
"It could have really had an effect on him."
