
# Tom DeLonge shares song off new Angels & Airwaves album, announces tour

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:09:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Sacher**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/tom-delonge-shares-song-off-new-angels-airwaves-album-announces-tour/)

While blink-182 continue to have a very busy year without Tom Delonge, Tom finally returned to music this year himself with the first Angels & Airwaves tour in seven years and the new AVA single “Rebel Girl.” He’s now planning to release a new AVA album in 2020 via Rise Records, and today he released a second song from the album, “Kiss & Tell,” which is more of a return to Tom’s punchy pop punk/emo-ish side than the U2-ish music Angels & Airwaves are best known for. It still doesn’t quite capture the magic of his most classic material, but if he’s going in this direction, it really makes you wonder what that new blink-182 album might’ve sounded like with Tom involved. He also recently posted a clip of a post-hardcore-ish riff he was recording for the album and said it “kind of sounds like Box Car Racer,” to which Travis Barker amazingly replied, “Never will sound like Box Car Racer without me [hugging face emoji].” (Just do a Box Car Racer reunion tour already, guys!) You can watch the “Kiss & Tell” video and the Instagram video of the allegedly Box Car Racer-ish song below.
Angels & Airwaves also announced a winter tour, including a NJ show on January 21 at Starland Ballroom. An artist presale for all dates is underway now, and tickets for the Starland show go on sale to the general public on Friday (11/8) at noon. All dates are listed below.
At the last Angels & Airwaves tour, Tom performed a solo acoustic medley of blink-182 and Box Car Racer songs, and you can watch a video of him doing it in Dallas below. It’s just a small portion of the set, but if you want to hear Tom DeLonge sing blink-182 (and Box Car Racer) songs in 2019/2020, this upcoming Angels & Airwaves tour is probably the only way.
