
# Rayver proud of Janine

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:17:03+00:00**

Author: **Mario Bautista**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/entertainment/showbiz/rayver-proud-janine)

He tries his best to have no biases as a host. “It’s hard because, as hosts, we are also viewers, we can see their performances and it’s as if we are also judges in our own right.  But we, hosts should leave the judging to the judges who know better kung sino ang more deserving to win. Well, I haven’t tried to compete in a singing contest, but only in dance contests, pero I guess the feeling is just the same. Pareho lang naman siguro ang kaba since you are performing in front of many people and judges. Ang labanan talaga diyan is kung paano mo ipapakita ‘yung puso mo as a performer and kung buo ‘yung loob mo.”
He’s happy to work with Julie Anne San Jose, Ken Chan and Rita Daniela as the show’s other hosts. “Ang trabaho namin as hosts is to let the Clashers know na kaya sila nasa show is because they were chosen for a reason at lahat sila ay special. That’s why we remind them that it’s their time to shine. Some will not make it, but that doesn’t mean that their journey ends there. We encourage them to give their all always. Ito na ‘yun, ibigay n’yo na lahat ng puwede ibigay. Prove to the Kapuso viewers and to the judges that you deserve to win.”
Tonight, Sunday, ‘The Clash’ continues to the next level of competition in Pares Kontra Pares  where the winning duo proceeds to the next round while the losing pair is broken up and has to compete against each other to claim one of the red chairs for the Top 12. The randomizer reveals Thea Astley and Al Fritz, a pair calling themselves dubbed as “Beauty and the Beast.”  Thea and Al find common musical ground in their theater experience so they decided to do the Broadway classic “All I Ask of You.”
They choose to clash with the tandem of Lorraine and Marlon, who used the round’s “Pass” option, which permitted them not to compete against one of the most formidable tandems of this season. As a consequence, Lorraine and Marlon will automatically compete next episode and will not have the option to choose who they will battle against. After their first choice of competitors passed, Thea and Al choose the tandem of the popular clashers Sassa and Myrus.  Find out who will prevail in the battle of the duets!  And which teammate-turned-opponent will succeed in the Matira ang Matibay Round?  
Going back to Rayver, how did he feel when rumored GF Janine Gutierrez won the best actress award in the recently concluded QCinema Filmfest for “Babae at Baril”?  “I watched it with her at the premiere night and I already knew she would win because she’s really so good. I told her about it and I’m really very proud of her. She deserves to be given more challenging roles kasi kaya naman niya.”
