
# Plymouth Argyle prospects Klaidi Lolos and Mike Peck make loan moves to Dorchester Town

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:25:21+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/plymouth-argyle-prospects-klaidi-lolos-3492477)

Plymouth Argyle first-year professionals Klaidi Lolos and Mike Peck have signed for Dorchester Town on youth loans.
They are joining up with another Pilgrims' prospect, midfielder Tom Purrington, who is already with the Magpies.
Lolos, the Greece youth international striker, has made one start and fie substitute appearances for the Pilgrims at first team level this season.
However, he has not featured since the end of September and now gets the chance to gain some game-time with Dorchester.
His loan deal is until New Year's Day 2020, while Peck, a central defender, has signed until November 28.
Peck has yet to make his senior debut for Argyle but has been involved in the matchday squad this season.
Both Lolos and Peck took part in Dorchester's training session on Thursday night ahead of the Southern League Premier South home game against Harrow Borough on Saturday afternoon.
Dorchester boss Callum Brooks told the club's official website: "I’m really pleased to have them both on board.
"As ever, I need to thank Kevin Nancekivell and Plymouth for their assistance and professionalism.
"We've discussed the possibility of getting Klaidi in for a little while. We want different options going forward, and we've heard nothing but good things about him.
"We've done extensive research and we've got a good relationship with Plymouth, but as far as first impressions go, he looked really bright and sharp in training tonight.
"He looks like he’s going to add to our group and give us another dimension going forwards.
“He's a really talented young man – we're looking forward to helping him with his progression and development, and in turn watching him in a Dorchester shirt until January."
Brooks added: "It's no secret that we've got an injury crisis when it comes to our defenders at the moment, so we've looked to get that area of the pitch covered.
"But again, what we've got in Michael is an extremely talented young defender, who is going to get some opportunities and game time with us and who we can help progress.
"Watching him in training tonight, he's fitted straight into the group, he seems very competitive and really ferocious in his defending, so from our point of view it's another option and gives us strength in depth, and it's just good business for the club.
"Many loan players who have come to Dorchester have had a really good experience and then gone on to have really good careers, so there is no reason why these two lads can't do the same."
It has also been confirmed that Argyle midfielder Cameron Sangster's loan spell at Dorchester has come to an end.
