
# Lexus LC Inspiration Series arrives from $205,512

Published at: **2019-11-01T02:06:59+00:00**

Author: **James Wong**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805080/lexus-lc-inspiration-series/)

- shares
Lexus Australia has confirmed pricing and specifications for the evergreen new LC Inspiration Series, available in strictly limited numbers and now on sale from $205,512 plus on-road costs.
"Fewer than 10 units" will be offered in Australia, according to the company's local arm, available with the distinctive Khaki Metal green exterior paint and tan 'L-Aniline' leather upholstery.
Buyers will able to also specify the brown interior with Graphite Black or Titanium exterior finishes, should they wish – but why would you, really?
Lexus says the 'L-Aniline' leather "is made using only the top one per cent of carefully selected hide and undergoes a special tanning process to ensure maximum softness".
Standard inclusions are 12-way adjustable front sports seats, contrasting black leather accents for the steering wheel, dashboard, seat bolsters and centre console, along with Alcantara inserts on the door panels.
The launch of the LC Inspiration Series also coincides with the debut of Apple CarPlay and Android Auto on all LC models purchased from November 1, complementing the existing 12.3-inch infotainment display with satellite navigation, DAB+ radio and 13-speaker Mark Levinson premium audio system.
Buyers of the Inspiration Series also get customised scuff plates – "a subtle reminder of rarity every time an owner opens the door".
The Lexus LC Inspiration Series is available in both LC500 and LC500h ($206,070) guises, powered by 351kW/540Nm 5.0-litre V8 and 264kW 3.5-litre V6 hybrid respectively.
Opting for the V8 gets you a 10-speed automatic driving the rear wheels, while the hybrid uses a trick combination of a four-speed auto teamed with a six-speed e-CVT driving the rear axle.

        Click the images for the full gallery
      
17
nextpreviousLexus LC Inspiration Series arrives from $205,512
