
# Audi Shifts Just-Announced High-Performance R8s To Rear-Drive

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jack R. Nerad**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jacknerad/2019/11/06/audi-shifts-just-announced-high-performance-r8s-to-rear-drive/)

Audi, the brand that has become world-renowned for its innovative quattro all-wheel-drive systems, is making news by pulling that system from the latest version variant of its long-lived R8 V10 mid-engine sports coupe. The key claim to fame of the Audi R8 V10 RWD street version and the Audi R8 LMS GT4 privateer-racer derivative is the absence of the quattro all-wheel-drive componentry. Without the driveshaft, the quattro multi-plate clutches, and front axle differential the R8 V10 RWD is about 143 lb (65 kilograms) lighter than the R8 quattro model. In combination with the carryover V10 engine, which delivers 532 horsepower in this application, the rear-wheel drive offers what Audi calls "a puristic kind of driving pleasure."
The street-going R8 V10 RWD is essentially a revised, carryon version of the limited-edition Audi R8 V10 RWS that was launched early last year. Customers seemed to like the idea so much that Audi decided to make the new RWD a permanent model.
"Its rear-wheel drive derived from the R8-LMS racing car, and the special dynamics sparked our customers' enthusiasm right away," Oliver Hoffmann, managing director of Audi Sport GmbH said in a statement. "Now it will become part of the R8 family as a separate model… and we are giving it the same sharp look with which we designed the new R8 quattro models."
So what do those new looks entail?
As with most Audi design revisions, you have to look hard because subtlety is always the order of the day. But there are differences to both Coupe and Spyder versions. For example, the grille (or as Audi refers to it, the "Singleframe") is broader and flatter, and the slits below the hood are reminiscent of the Audi Sport quattro. In addition, the air inlets, front splitter, and air outlet grille at the rear are wider than on the previous model. Also at the rear, the diffuser, flanked by two oval tailpipes, is positioned higher than before. In the engine compartment, the air filter is situated under a new cover, which is available in either plastic (expensive) or carbon fiber (a lot more expensive.)
The R8 V10 RWD's sideblades also get the benefit of a makeover. The top blade is designed in glossy "mythos" black, while the bottom blade is painted body color. The standard treatment for the front blade, the side sill inserts, and the diffuser is gloss black, but a carbon styling package and an extended black styling package are available as alternatives. Should you desire it, the Audi rings and logo can be painted in high-gloss black.
Inside, the new model has differences to remind the driver and passenger they are in something special. The sport seats are covered in leather and Alcantara, and a shiny badge with the "RWD" logo is fitted to the dash in front of the passenger.
In this age of forced induction, the Audi R8 V10 RWD manages to wring 532 horsepower and 398 lb-ft of torque out of the naturally aspirated 5.2 FSI V10. The impressive power and torque are transferred to the rear wheels via a seven-speed S tronic automatic transmission and a mechanical locking differential.
Performance, as you might guess, is expected to be exhilarating. Audi says the Coupe will vault from zero to 62 miles per hour (100km/h) in just 3.7 seconds, while the slightly heavier Spyder will turn the trick in 3.8 seconds. Top speeds are estimated at 198.8 mph for the Coupe and 197.6 mph for the less aerodynamic Spyder.
So what is the point of the RWD? Well, for one thing, showing off. If sport mode is activated with the Electronic Stabilization Control, the suspension setup and control system allow controlled drifting and, presumably, smoking tires. Of course, that can be expensive. The rear tires are mammoth 295/35 size/aspect on 19-inch or optional 20-inch forged wheels, while the fronts are 245/35s.
The Audi R8 LMS GT4 racecar is directly derived from the R8 V10 RWD. Audi says with about 60 percent of the racer's parts are carry-over. As per the requirements of the race series, the V10 produces 495 horsepower, and that is delivered to the rear wheels via a seven-speed dual-clutch transmission. To the enthusiastic approval of its drivers, for the first time, the GT4's ABS braking and traction control systems can be precisely adjusted. The program characteristics allow for eight different settings that the driver can individually select, depending on weather, track conditions and tire grip.
Like the road-going version, the GT4 is being produced at Böllinger Höfe in Neckarsulm, Germany. It is intended for privateer drivers exclusively. There is no definitive word on pricing for the race car, but the road-going sports car with rear-wheel drive will be introduced to European markets early next year with a base price of EUR 144,000 ($159,000) for the Coupé. The Spyder will start at EUR 157,000 ($174,000.)
