
# West Brom return to Championship summit with easy win over Stoke

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:21:31+00:00**

Author: **PA Media**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/04/stoke-west-brom-championship-match-report)

Matt Phillips and Hal Robson-Kanu fired West Brom back to the top of the Championship as Stoke remain rooted to the bottom after a disappointing 2-0 defeat.
The midfielder Phillips’ sixth goal of the season gave the Baggies a sixth-minute lead and Robson-Kanu’s second-half penalty ensured they comfortably avoided an upset at the Bet365 Stadium and leapfrogged Preston at the summit.
The Scotland international Phillips was never going to miss from close range for his second goal in successive games as Slaven Bilic’s side stretched their unbeaten run to five matches.
And Robson-Kanu’s third goal in four matches inflicted an 11th defeat in 15 games on Stoke who, only three days ago, sacked their manager, Nathan Jones, after a miserable start to the season. They are now six points adrift of safety.
The defender Cameron Carter-Vickers fouled winger Grady Diangana and Robson-Kanu, on as a substitute, coolly scored from the spot. Victory puts the Baggies two points ahead of Preston, Leeds and Swansea.
Stoke’s teenage striker Tyrese Campbell forced an early save from Sam Johnstone but his left-foot shot was easy for the West Brom keeper. Two minutes later the visitors took the lead.
Diangana, on loan from West Ham, worked a clever one-two with Jake Livermore and delivered across the face of goal where the unmarked Phillips easily slotted home.
At the other end Stoke broke on the counterattack and Sam Vokes headed Tommy Smith’s cross straight at Johnstone. Darnell Furlong tried his luck from distance in reply but his right-foot shot flew well wide before West Brom’s Charlie Austin suffered a bloodied nose when hit by a stray arm from Liam Lindsay just before half-time.
Carter-Vickers should have levelled straight after the break but the right-back somehow shot over from point-blank range. Danny Batth headed Sam Clucas’s corner perfectly into his path at the back post but he rushed his effort and it flew well over.
But no matter how hard they tried Stoke struggled to create clear-cut opportunities for their frustrated fans. Carter-Vickers’ reckless challenge on Diangana resulted in West Brom’s penalty – and Robson-Kanu made no mistake to seal the points.
The Welshman had been on the pitch for only six minutes but he calmly slotted into the bottom left corner as Jack Butland dived the opposite way.
It should have been 3-0 moments later but this time Robson-Kanu headed Phillips’ inch-perfect cross against the right post. Robson-Kanu also forced a save out of Butland at the end as West Brom deservedly picked up maximum points.
