
# Chiefs Star Back After Lengthy Absence?

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:49:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/could-kaizer-chiefs-welcome-back-ramahlwe-mphahlele-v-orlando-pirates/666504)

The battle lines have been drawn for Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates, and the Amakhosi may well be welcoming back a player into action after a long absence.

        Read: Blom Opens Up On His Chiefs Debut
      
Ramahlwe Mphahlele hasn’t played for the Glamour Boys since an eight-minute cameo in the opening day victory over Highlands Park back in September, coming on as a late substitute as they went on to record a 3-2 win.
The 29-year-old has battled some injury niggles of late that have hindered his efforts to break back into Ernst Middendorp’s side, while Reeve Frosler has impressed at right-back over the course of the season so far.
Now though, with Frosler injured and out of contention for the clash with the Buccaneers tomorrow afternoon, Mphahlele has travelled with the team to Durban and could well be in line for a place in Middendorp’s matchday squad for the first time in almost three months.
It remains to be seen whether the former Mamelodi Sundowns man will be deemed ready to start the game against Pirates when things get underway at Moses Mabhida Stadium, but he will be pleased to be around the squad and seemingly in contention once again.

        Read: A Message From Kaizer Motaung…
      
The full back hasn’t had the best of times against Pirates in the past while with Moroka Swallows, Sundowns and University of Pretoria, winning just three of his 23 meetings with them in all competitions.
