
# Nurse goes from earning £40k to living on benefits in sewage-filled council flat

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:35:21+00:00**

Author: **Nathan Standley, Lorraine King**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/nurse-goes-earning-40k-living-20815286)

A nurse whose career was ended by ill health was forced to live in a home seeped with raw sewage as she struggled to adjust to a life on benefits.
Karen Fowler went from earning £40,000 annually to living off £1,000 a month and was housed in substandard accommodation after her landlord threw her out when she became unemployed.
The 40-year-old suffers from chronic pain caused by conditions affecting her spine, nerves and muscles, and suffers with mental health problems including anxiety and depression.
Her debilitating illnesses eventually become too much and she resigned from her job, Hull Live reports.
"The last two years have been an absolute nightmare," she said.
 
"I came out of a good job into no income, not knowing how to claim benefits"
She said she had been living in a property paying rent of £600 per month, but contacted the landlord after she left work to say she would soon be unable to pay.
"I just didn't know how to go from £40,000 per year to less than £1,000 per month," she said.
But the landlord took legal action and by the time East Riding Council had offered to cover the rent, Miss Fowler had already been formally evicted.
She was rehoused by the council three days before her eviction in 2018.
"They said it'd need decorating and offered me a £200 decorating grant," she said.
"So I thought, 'Well there's people in far worse situations, being homeless and things like that'.
"I went into the bedroom and it smelt like faeces.
"But they said I had no other option but to take it.
 
Miss Fowler said she spent the next nine months living with candles on and the windows open, regularly complaining to the council about the stench.
"I had officers from housing come round and say it just needed stripping and decorating," she said.
"But the smell just wouldn't go and people kept commenting on it."
She said she was hospitalised four times in that period because of vomiting and constant retching.
"I couldn't keep my food down, I dropped to 7st 8lb," she said.
"I once retched for eight hours straight and couldn't keep my meds down.
"I know that I ingested fecal spores.
"Then soon as the repairs were done and I moved back in, it stopped."
It was not until December, nine months after she moved into the property, that the council placed her in alternative accommodation while they carried out the work.
A damaged pipe connected to the flat above hers was found to have leaked sewage into the walls of her living room, kitchen and bedroom.
Workers had to remove the plaster from the walls completely. She was moved back in eight days later.
"It was just all such a rush to throw me back in there," she said.
"I still had no floor covering, my sofas were all folded together, my belongings were all moved into the garage, I had no bedding. My kitchen was covered in cellophane."
A spokesman for East Riding Council said: "We carried out a number of repairs to the resident's flat in Watts Road last year, including works to an internal drainage pipe.
"She was moved out of the property into temporary accommodation of her own choosing at the council's expense, while the work was carried out.
"All the work was completed before last Christmas and no repairs have been reported to us since."
