
# Trump Called Woman Who Accused Him of Sexual Assault, Records Show

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:12:10+00:00**

Author: **Ed Shanahan**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/05/nyregion/summer-zervos-trump.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

President Trump exchanged several calls with a former contestant on “The Apprentice” who has accused him of sexually assaulting her about a decade before he was elected, according to cellphone records made public on Tuesday as part of a lawsuit against him.
Mr. Trump and the woman, Summer Zervos, were in touch six times during a three-month period in 2007 and 2008, redacted versions of Mr. Trump’s cellphone bills show.
Two of their exchanges happened at a time in December 2007 when Mr. Trump was staying at the Beverly Hills Hotel in California, according to the phone records and copies of his personal calendars. That is when and where Ms. Zervos says he assaulted her.
The phone records emerged in a defamation suit that Ms. Zervos filed against Mr. Trump in New York State Supreme Court after he accused her of lying by publicly accusing him in October 2016 of assault. (The calendars became public last month.)
Lawyers for Mr. Trump have tried to have the lawsuit dismissed, arguing that the United States Constitution insulates the president against such litigation. In May, a divided appeals rejected that argument and allowed the suit to proceed.
In a court filing this week, Mariann Wang, a lawyer for Ms. Zervos, said the cellphone bills corroborated her client’s “account of the sexual assaults with even more granularity and with a degree of precision” that Ms. Zervos “could not have known were she not telling the truth about these interactions when she spoke publicly about them before this case was filed.”
A spokeswoman for Marc Kasowitz, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, disputed Ms. Wang’s claims and said that the May ruling would be appealed to New York’s highest court.
“That President Trump may have had several phone calls with Ms. Zervos, who had been a contestant on ‘The Apprentice,’ in no way corroborates Ms. Zervos’s allegations,” Mr. Kasowitz’s spokeswoman said. “In fact, at the time, Ms. Zervos, who initiated most of those calls, was pestering Mr. Trump for a job.”
Ms. Zervos was one of more than 10 women who came forward during the presidential campaign to accuse Mr. Trump of sexual misconduct.
Mr. Trump has denied all of the allegations, saying that they were fabricated by the women who made them. In her suit, Ms. Zervos says he labeled her accusations and those leveled by other women “totally false”; “made up stories and lies”; and “made up nonsense.”
Among the calls listed in the newly public records in Ms. Zervos’s suit is one that Mr. Trump made to her on Dec. 21, 2007, that lasted about three minutes.
Portions of Mr. Trump’s personal calendar released previously show that he arrived in Los Angeles that day and checked into the Beverly Hills Hotel. The call was made at 3:02 p.m., the cellphone bills show. Mr. Trump’s calendar shows he was scheduled to arrive at 3 p.m.
In her 2016 statement accusing Mr. Trump of assaulting her, Ms. Zervos said she was under the impression that she would be joining him for dinner at a restaurant that day. Instead, she said, he started kissing her. When she walked away, she said, he asked her to sit next to him.
“I complied,” Ms. Zervos said in the statement. “He then grabbed my shoulder and began kissing me again very aggressively and placed his hand on my breast. I pulled back and walked to another part of the room.”
Ms. Zervos has said that she met Mr. Trump the next day at his Los Angeles golf club, and the phone records show a two-minute call between them that day. The other calls were later that month and in January and February 2008.
Ms. Zervos has said that she was interested in a job with the Trump Organization, Mr. Trump’s main business vehicle, after appearing on “The Apprentice,” his reality television show, and that she turned to him for advice on her career. In her 2016 statement, she said that he had kissed her during their first meeting at Trump Tower, and that it had upset her.
Mr. Trump is also facing a defamation suit filed against him on Monday by the journalist E. Jean Carroll, who, in a book excerpt published in New York magazine, wrote that Mr. Trump raped her in 1996 in a dressing room at Bergdorf Goodman in New York.
Mr. Trump vehemently denied the allegations, calling Ms. Carroll a liar intent on selling a book. He said he had never met her despite a photo of the two of them together in the 1980s. He also told reporters he would not have assaulted Ms. Carroll because “she’s not my type.”
In her suit, filed in State Supreme Court, Ms. Carroll said that Mr. Trump had damaged her reputation and her career when he denied her allegation.

        Continue reading the main story
      
