
# See What John Krasinski And Emily Blunt Could Look Like In The Fantastic Four

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:56:20+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483859/see-what-john-krasinski-and-emily-blunt-could-look-like-as-the-fantastic-four)

Written By
The Marvel Cinematic Universe is an ever expanding place, with no shortage of characters to adapt into live-action. And after Disney acquired 20th Century Fox, there are a few more beloved heroes that could make their way to the MCU. This includes the beloved team The Fantastic Four, which had had a bumpy tenure in theaters with Fox. Moviegoers have spent plenty of time to debate who might play the roles, including John Krasinski and Emily Blunt as Mr. Fantastic and the Invisible Woman respectively. And now we've got an idea of what the couple might look like as those Marvel heroes.
The Fantastic Four had a set of movies in the early 2000's, before the birth of the MCU. Josh Trank's 2015 version was a massive bomb, ending a new franchise before it started. It's currently unclear if/when the team of heroes will join the massive shared universe, with John Krasinski and Emily Blunt are at the top of fan lists for Reed Richards and Sue Storm. Check out what they could look like in costume below.
Well, this is awesome. This bit of fan art looks like it'll fit right in with the MCU, and John Krasinski and Emily Blunt look thoroughly badass in their Fantastic Four uniforms. What's more, we get a glimpse into what their characters' powers might look like from within the massive franchise.
This badass image comes to us from concept artist Rob Brunette, who shared his Fantastic Four rendering via social media. Brunette expertly added Krasinski and Blunt's faces to the concept art, in a way that doesn't look unnatural or poorly photoshopped. And their abilities are expertly brought to life as well, with Mr. Fantastic towering over the Invisible Woman, who has one of her signature shields up. And if you look closely, her right leg is invisible.
The Fantastic Four have a long history in Marvel Comics. They're a major team on the page, known to work alongside the likes of The Avengers. As such, their absence from the Marvel Cinematic Universe has been noticeable. But when Disney acquired 20th Century Fox and its properties, that included both the Fantastic Four and the X-Men. But what the studio has planned for those iconic comic book characters remain a mystery.
Smart money says that Marvel Studios would adapt the Fantastic Four before they bring mutants into the shared universe. The X-Men franchise only just ended with Dark Phoenix, and had been around for over a decade. And while the Fantastic Four already have three movies under their belt, none of them failed to become pop culture sensations. What's more, the last attempt was so universally panned, that there's nowhere to go but up.

        Related: Wow, Tim Miller’s Plans For Deadpool 2 Included Fantastic Four’s The Thing
      
Emily Blunt and John Krasinski are at the top of fan lists to play Sue Storm and Reed Richards, but there hasn't been any official word from either Marvel or the pair of married actors. But following the pair's stellar performances in Krasinski's movie A Quiet Place, they seem like a great choice to play the typically married Marvel heroes.
The Marvel Cinematic Universe has been mapped out through 2022, which will be the beginning of Phase Five. Thus far, there's been no official word about the inclusion of the Fantastic Four. But the shared universe continues to grow, and it wouldn't be surprising if an upcoming blockbuster sneaks the team into the shared universe. Just look at what Captain America: Civil War did with Black Panther and Spider-Man.
The next installment in the MCU is Black Widow on May 1st, 2020, and A Quiet Place A Quiet Place: Part II will arrive March 20th. In the meantime, check out our 2019 release list to plan your next trip to the movies.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
