
# Chiefs Wait For Next Opponents…

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:37:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/kaizer-chiefs-co-are-waiting-with-interest-today/666654)

Kaizer Chiefs and Ernst Middendorp will be watching with interest tonight as they wait to see who they will be pitted against for a spot in the Telkom Knockout final…

        Read: Chiefs In Talks With Potential New Signing!
      
The Glamour Boys are yet to win a game in open play in this year’s TKO so far, beating Cape Town City and then Orlando Pirates in penalty shootouts in order to book their spot in the final four.
Like Chiefs, Maritzburg United are also into the semis without a win to their name, while Golden Arrows needed extra time to see off Polokwane City before scraping a 1-0 win over SuperSport United on Saturday evening.
The last game of the quarterfinals happens this afternoon as Chippa United host Mamelodi Sundowns at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium, and the draw for the semifinals will be made directly after the game once the Chilli Boys or Masandawana have joined Chiefs, Maritzburg and Arrows in the final four.
This tournament is one that has evaded the Glamour Boys for some time now having last won it back in 2010, and is the only piece of domestic silverware that they were unable to pick up during Stuart Baxter’s three-year spell in charge between 2012/13 and 2014/15.

        Read: Chiefs’ Future - Blom Joins Conveyor Belt Of Amakhosi Talent
      
Now, with the club still enduring the longest trophy drought in their history, Middendorp and his technical team will be eager to see who stands in the way of them and a spot in the final later this year – and the chance to bring their unwanted drought to an end.

        Check out Chiefs’ impressive conveyor belt of young talent in the gallery below…
      
