
# The best coffee machine deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:17:00+00:00**

Author: **Dominic Preston**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/digital-home/coffee-machine-deals-3685764/)

If you're anything like us, you probably give too much of your pay cheque to the likes of Starbucks for your daily brew, but there is another option. Invest in a coffee machine at home and you can become your own barista, cutting out the middle man and saving both time and money in the long run. Though of course you'll still have to find a way to sort out your own croissants. 
Depending on what type of machine you go for - and believe us, there are plenty to choose from - you can spend a lot kitting out your kitchen to rival a coffee shop. Luckily, home coffee machines are pretty regularly on offer - especially in big events like Black Friday, Cyber Monday, and the Christmas. There are also a broad range of devices at various price points to choose from, so it's usually possible to avoid paying full price if you know what to look for.
We've also rounded up the best coffee makers and machines in our handy article, if you want a quick look at which machines we rate highly.
For more discount goodness check out our main tech deals site for the latest savings, and check out our guide to the best smart kitchen gadgets if you're looking for more kitchen tech.

        Nespresso EN550 Lattissima Touch Automatic Coffee MachineFrom: AmazonWas: £279.99Now: £197  (£83 off) View Deal
      

        Bosch Tassimo Vivy 2 Coffee MachineFrom: ArgosWas: £107.49Now: £79.99  (£27 off) View Deal
      

        Russell Hobbs Buckingham Filter Coffee Machine, 1.25 LitreFrom: John LewisWas: £54.99Now: £29  (£26 off) View Deal
      

        Tassimo by Bosch Happy TAS1002GB Coffee MachineFrom: CurrysWas: £99.99Now: £39.99  (£60 off) View Deal
      
De'Longhi Dedica Espresso MachineFrom: AmazonWas: £219.99Now: £154  (£65 off) View Deal< >
You'll find a few recurring brands like Tassimo, Nespresso, DeLonghi and Bosch when looking for your coffee machine. The first thing to figure out though is what sort of coffee machine you're looking for. There are four main categories, and which is right to you will depend on how fussy you are, how much you're willing to spend, and how much work you want to put into your morning brew.
The coffee obsessive's machine of choice, home espresso machines are essentially mini versions of what you'll find in a typical coffee shop. These rely on highly pressurised steam to produce shots of espresso, which you can then mix with milk or water for longer drinks. A manual espresso machine is probably the way to get the absolute best coffee at home, but it does require a bit more patience and effort, and it may take you time to learn how to make it just right.
If that sounds like a lot of work, you might prefer a bean-to-cup machine. These are essentially automatic espresso machines: you just add the beans, hit a button, and the machine will grind, heat, and brew, delivering you a shot of espresso with minimal effort. There is one big downside: you'll have to pay for all that tech, with good bean-to-cup machines starting around £400 and often climbing to £1,000 and above.
Snobs might turn their noses up, but capsule machines are a great option if you want something quick and easy. Nespresso is the market leader here, but there are rivals. You'll also get a lot of choice, with higher end machines including more brewing options, milk frothers, and even smart functionality. Just remember that while the machine might be cheaper, you will pay more for the capsules in the long-run.
Finally, if you just want no-frills black coffee, you might want a filter machine. The old office staple is still a great choice, especially if you need to make coffee for lots of people at once, and the machines are often friendlier on your wallet. Look out for how long the machine can keep coffee warm after its brewed, how many cups it can make at once, and whether it has the option to schedule coffee to brew at set times - or even smart functionality so you can set it to brew remotely.
You'll be able to find savings on coffee machines from plenty of different retailers. If you find a model you like, we would also advise comparing the price against at least two to three other retailers and of course against Amazon if you haven't already to find the best price.
As with most things, Amazon is one of the best places to look first, especially if you look in the Deals of the Day. These discounts offered for a limited time (often for a few hours only), or until stocks run out - they're also known as Lightning Deals.
We'd recommend signing up to Amazon's 30 day free trial of Prime, which will not only get you access to Lightning deals 30 minutes earlier than non-Prime members, but will also get you free next-day delivery. Plus, you'll get access to Prime Video, which you can access through your smart TV, and other benefits during your trial, too.
If you're in the UK, other great places to look include Argos, Currys, AO, and Very. It's always worth keeping John Lewis in mind too - the company's price match policies mean it often matches some of the best deals from other retailers, while including better customer service and warranty policies.

        From: AmazonWas: £279.99Now: £197  (£83 off) View Deal
      
Get a great deal on this Nespresso machine that'll do cappuccinos and lattes too.

        From: ArgosWas: £107.49Now: £79.99  (£27 off) View Deal
      
Get this capsule coffee machine from Bosch almost half the usual price.

        From: John LewisWas: £54.99Now: £29  (£26 off) View Deal
      
Get this stylish Russell Hobbs filter machine with a permanent filter and built-in timer for almost half-price

        From: CurrysWas: £99.99Now: £39.99  (£60 off) View Deal
      
This Tassimo pod coffee machine is less than half price right now. 

        From: AmazonWas: £219.99Now: £154  (£65 off) View Deal
      
Save £65 on this compact traditional pump espresso machine
