
# Scott Adams, ‘Dilbert’ creator: Trump’s Twitter typo

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bailey Vogt**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/5/dilbert-creator-trumps-twitter-typos-makes-america/)

“Dilbert” cartoonist Scott Adams lauded President Trump’s Twitter account as an authentic look into the mind of the president, typos and all.
Mr. Adams, making an appearance on “Fox and Friends,” was responding to a  New York Times report that Mr. Trump has tweeted 11,800 times from the start of his presidency through Friday.
“The president has created his own television channel on Twitter,” Mr. Adams said. “I think historians are going to say, ‘OK that tweeting was a really good idea.’ It bonded the public to him without the middle man.
“Even the typos end up working in his favor because you know he wrote it,” he said. “That makes it feel personal and you feel connected to your leader in a way we never have before. The authenticity of it to know that you got it raw, you got it right from his brain. It’s really what he thinks. No one fixed it.”
Mr. Adams, who has been a Trump backer since early in the 2016 presidential primary process, told Fox News in March 2018 that Mr. Trump is using his Twitter account as a hypnosis “persuasion strategy” to call out bias. 
Many have criticized Mr. Trump for using Twitter to attack political rivals, announce Cabinet departures and institute policy changes such as closing the southern border with Mexico.
 

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
