
# Simon Cowell scraps X Factor: All Stars with new spin-off to rival Little Mix

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:21:57+00:00**

Author: **Vicki Newman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/vicki-newman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/simon-cowell-scraps-x-factor-20807106)

Simon Cowell has scrapped his X Factor spin-off All Stars.
A host of winners and contestants from across the years were set to battle it out in a new version of the ITV show next month.
But after 2011 winners Little Mix launched a rival BBC talent show, The Search, to put together a band to support them on their next tour, Simon changed his tactics.
Now he's launching X Factor : The Band instead, and the music mogul swears it was him who came up with the idea first.
He told The Sun : "This is what really happened. I was approached to co-produce that show last year by Little Mix’s management.
"I told them the problem was we have a conflict of interest because we are launching X Factor The Band in 2020. We were told their show was going to launch in 2021.
"Then we had the fallout and find out Little Mix were bringing their show forward. Was that intentional because we are doing our show? I have no idea. But regardless, it was too much fun not to do this year. I would rather it was us doing it first. It 100 per cent makes it more exciting there being a battle."
The newspaper also reports that All Stars judges Louis Walsh and Paula Abdul are expected to be axed, with new judges put in place for The Band.
The full All Stars line-up was not yet known, but Louis had previously told Mirror Online that Leona Lewis, Alexandra Burke and Shayne Ward had signed up to take part.
And Joe McElderry told us he'd been asked to be on the show but turned it down.
Auditions for the new show will take place soon at Sony Music in London, with the live finals held at Birmingham Arena the week of the general election in December.
Simon described it as "the perfect antidote to the doom and gloom".
He said with K-Pop ruling the world, he wants to find a pop supergroup to rival the likes of boyband BTS.
He said the winners of his new show will do more than get a record contract, they'll also launch a new wave of music, "UK-Pop".
You can audition with your mobile phone! All you have to do is send a video of yourself singing to The X Factor’s WhatsApp number which is 07733 222 927
Apply online here: https://www.itv.com/xfactor/apply/apply-now-for-the-x-factor-the-band 
Little Mix's show The Search will launch on BBC.
