
# County Finals: Seven Heaven For Corofin While The Famine Ends In Tipp

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:56:30+00:00**

Author: **Michael Corry**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/gaa/mcorry/club-county-final-sunday/)


        Just three county titles were up for grabs this weekend but there was still plenty of stories emanating from these cracking contests.
      
Ballyboden St. Endas took on a Thomas Davis side looking to end a near 30-year wait for a Dublin title while Borris-Ileagh looked to end a 33-year wait in the Tipperary hurling championship.
Elsewhere, All-Ireland champions Corofin took the field for their replay against a Tuam Stars outfit looking to bridge a 25-year gap in Galway.

        Here is your county final round-up.
      

        Parnell Park
        
          Ballyboden St Endas 0-15 Thomas Davis 0-9
        
      
The 2016 All-Ireland club champions are back on top in the capital after a hard-fought six-point win over Thomas Davis who were searching for their first county title since 1991.
It took the Tallaght outfit 18 minutes to register a score as two points from Ryan Basquel and one each from his brother Colm and Declan O’Mahony put Ballyboden four in front. Ryan Basquel would register two more as the favourites led 0-7 to 0-2 at the break.
Thomas Davis fought hard in the second half and at one point reduced the gap to three but Ballyboden never looked like losing and can now look forward to another crack at the Leinster club championship.
___

        Tuam Stadium
        
          Corofin 0-11 Tuam Stars 0-8
        
      
The All-Ireland champions are county champions for the seventh successive year following their narrow three-point win over Tuam Stars whose 25-year wait for a Galway title continues.
Despite starting strong, Corofin hit six first-half wides as Tuam took a slender one-point lead in at the break. Veteran Gary Sice shot Corofin in front with 11 minutes to go before Martin Farragher and Kieran Molloy sealed the win.
___

        
          Semple Stadium
        
        
          Borris-Ileigh 1-15 Kiladangan 1-12
        
      
After 33-year winless seasons, Borris-Ileigh are Tipperary hurling champions with teenager James Devaney hitting 1-4 in their win over rivals Kiladangan.
The champions also had James McCormack to thank after the goalkeeper made a cracking save from Billy Seymour after just 12 seconds of the match. Borris-Ileagh pushed on to lead by two at the break before late points from Jerry Kelly and Patrick Maher sealed a famous win.
___
