
# Formula 1 drivers pay tribute to Lewis Hamilton's sixth Drivers' Championship

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:23:00+00:00**

Author: **Bobby Vincent**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49516/formula-1-drivers-pay-tribute-to-lewis-hamilton-s-sixth-drivers-championship.html)


        Lewis Hamilton won his sixth Formula 1 Drivers' title on Sunday when he finished in P2 in the United States. Hamilton has become just the second ever F1 driver to reach this tally, after Michael Schumacher, who is leading the way with seven world titles to his name. Here's what the rest of the F1 grid had to say about Hamilton making even more history, when talking to Formula 1's official YouTube channel.
      
"Of course, it's an achievement. One world championship is an achievement, so six is even more (of an achievement)," Leclerc said.

        "I think everyone of us drivers in Formula 1 respect Lewis and I definitely do. He's a great champion, and this year, I think the best has won. He's proved on many occasions that he's done an excellent job, so congratulations to him."
      

        "(It's) unbelievable. Six world championships is a lot. So, congratulations to him!"
      

        "It's very impressive to win six titles. You need to be very consistent for it. He clearly deserves it."
      

        "Congratulations to him and the team. Once again, they've killed it!"
      

        "For me, he's a legend in Formula 1. (He's) one of the best, if not the best, in the sport. He's proved it again and I think it's not the last time that he's going to win. It's really impressive to see what he's achieved in Formula 1."
      

        "As a fellow racer, all you can do is really respect what he's done. There will always be people saying, 'great car, great team', all of that but yes maybe. But also, to hold that level week in week out; there's so much more involved in this sport than just driving. There's the circus and for him to hold that level for all these years at the top of the circus; you can only respect that."
      

        "He did less mistakes in the season and performed at a better level. There are things I could've done better in some of the races. Mixed feelings but huge congratulations to him. He deserves it."
      

        "Amazing driver. He puts a huge amount of effort in, obviously. He's had a fantastic car beneath him to achieve this in the last number of years, but he's still got to do the job week in week out, and he's definitely delivered it."
      

        "It's a great achievement. Congratulations."
      

        "Really good job. Mercedes are winning races even when they're not supposed to win and I think that's the strengths of that team. They've been amazing in the championship and Lewis has done a good job."
      

        "I'm happy for him. I don't know what it feels like to win a world championship, so I can't really say it, but I congratulated him after the race. He's the second driver ever to get to six world championships and I'm sure he's going to go on to win more. I'm very happy, he's done an awesome job. He's beat his team-mate in every single season in Formula 1, bar one, or two. So, he's pretty handy."
      
