
# Facebook Unveils New Corporate Identity, Logo To Distinguish Itself From The App And Position Itself As More Transparent

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jenny Rooney**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jenniferrooney/2019/11/04/facebook-unveils-new-corporate-identity-logo-to-distinguish-itself-from-the-app-and-position-itself-as-more-transparent/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Facebook—the company, not the app—today unveils a new logo and identity as a way to more clearly define the corporate entity that comprises a suite of apps including Instagram, WhatsApp, Messenger, Oculus, Workplace, Portal, Calibra—and, yes, Facebook. In a post, CMO Antonio Lucio announced the move. “Today, we’re updating our company branding to be clearer about the products that come from Facebook,” he wrote. “We’re introducing a new company logo and further distinguishing the Facebook company from the Facebook app, which will keep its own branding. 
Each letter of the word “Facebook” is capitalized and spaced apart from adjacent letters, creating an authoritative yet subdued and airy look.
“The new branding was designed for clarity and uses custom typography and capitalization to create visual distinction between the company and app,” he explained. “People should know which companies make the products they use.”
The repositioning mirrors the integration behind the scenes, he said. Facebook’s many apps and technologies “have shared infrastructure for years and the teams behind them frequently work together,” Lucio told me. Meanwhile, company endorsements have been added for years, in an effort to establish clarity; in June the company began adding “From Facebook” in all apps.
The new corporate brand, which went through extensive testing with consumers and was developed in house and with U.K.-based agency Saffron, will be used moving forward in all products and marketing materials, including a new website.
The new logo is “empathetic” to the apps on which it appears and changes color to match that context. “Specific to the design, it was very important for us to deliver great messages that we are one corporation, therefore Facebook, but at the same time we are a family of vibrant apps,” he said. “And each one has a very meaningful role to play in their people’s lives. The best way to convey that was that the Facebook company logo doesn’t have an official color. It will assume the coloring of that particular brand,” he said, reflecting the fact that “we are a family of vibrant apps.”
The overall move reflects “the need for the Facebook company to have its own voice and narrative, because the issues we are dealing with and talking about are different than the Facebook individual app,” Lucio said. “Most conversations we are having with the world are cross-app. Whether it is taking on election interference, privacy or data management or the plans that Mark [Zuckerberg] and the team have for the internet going forward needs to come from the company, not the app,” he said, adding, “First we create a narrative, then a brand-identity system.”
It has become “very important for us for transparency reasons,” he said, “to make sure that everyone in the world knows that these apps are part of the Facebook family. Then the overall perception of the Facebook company increases.”
Younger generations, particularly Millennials and Gen X, “want to know where products come from. We are just one of many companies that are doing this more emphatically,” he said, citing Procter & Gamble and Unilever and Coca-Cola as examples, companies that in recent years have launched unified corporate brand campaigns and logos.
“The world expect Facebook to have a point of view on issues that affect us all. It’s hard to do that while building an affinity for each of the apps,” Lucio said.
He emphasized that this is the continuation of a trend. “The truth of the matter is that we have been a big company for the past five or six years. We’ve been adding the Facebook attribution [to our apps] over time. The company has been operating as one entity now for years. This is just a way of going to the consumer [in a way that] employees, journalists, clients and policymakers around the world already know.” Lucio added that the company is not changing the operating or financial system or structure. “We are calling a spade a spade because consumers need to know.”
It’s also the latest mark of Lucio, who joined as CMO in September 2018 and in May unveiled Facebook’s new Groups-focused brand campaign, which he said at the time was “the beginning of a long journey.”
A CMO with extensive experience in building big global brands such as Pepsi, Visa and HP Inc., where he sought to bring new relevance to the tech brand, Lucio is leaning into his core expertise with this latest initiative. “What I’ve learned over the years is that you really need to establish what the corporate brand is and the relationship with every one of its products and services and create a consistent architecture that you are able to develop over time with focus and consistency. I’m just beginning the journey here at Facebook. We are just setting up the framework as we develop the company over time. The good news of having Mark at the helm is that he has a long-term vision for the brand. He’s thinking decades. He’s in it for the long run. So decisions like the one we’ve undertaken will be very important [moving forward],” he said.
“It is Mark’s vision and mine that this company and its brands stand the test of time as they have over the past 15 years.”

        Facebook Unveils New Brand Campaign, And CMO Antonio Lucio Says It Is The 'Beginning Of A Long Journey'Forbes Jenny Rooney
      
