
# [Update 2: Render of Red color] Huawei Nova 6 render reveals dual punch hole display like the Galaxy S10+

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/huawei-nova-6-render-reveals-dual-punch-hole-display-like-galaxy-s10/)


        Update (11/05/19 @ 6:45 AM ET): Evan ‘evleaks’ Blass has shared renders of the red color variant of the Huawei Nova 6.Update (11/01/19 @ 2:05 PM ET): New renders of the dual hole punch Huawei Nova 6 have leaked alongside a possible launch date. Scroll to the bottom for more details. The original article as published on October 29, 2019, is preserved as below.
      
Following the launch of the iPhone X, most Android manufacturers bought into the trend of adding a notch to the top of the display. However, Samsung came up with a unique solution of its own and came out with a punch-hole display on the Galaxy S10 series. While it wasn’t as trendy as the notch, which you can still find on several devices in different shapes and forms, a couple of manufacturers did implement it on their devices. Huawei, for instance, launched the Honor View 20 and the Huawei Nova 4 with a similar design, but they included a single circular cutout like the one on the Galaxy S10 and Galaxy S10e. Now, leaks suggest that the upcoming Huawei Nova 6 will have a dual pill-shaped punch-hole display featuring two selfie cameras.
As reported by 91Mobiles, leaked renders of the Huawei Nova 6 5G reveal that the device will feature a pill-shaped cutout in the top left corner of the display, like the one on the Galaxy S10 Plus. This cutout will house two camera modules, giving users more options while clicking selfies. Other than that, the device will feature the usual glass sandwich design that has become commonplace over the last year, with a gradient finish on the back and a nearly bezel-less display up on the front. The device will also include a vertically-aligned triple camera module with a dual-LED flash. The renders also suggest that the device will have laser autofocus or 3D ToF sensor next to the camera module, along with Huawei’s ‘AI Camera’ branding right next to it.
While we have no information on the hardware specifications yet, we know pretty much everything about its design. The Huawei Nova 6 will feature a power button and volume rocker to the right of the device, with no physical fingerprint sensor in sight. This further suggests that the device may have an in-display fingerprint sensor. The device also has black bands on the top and sides, which could be antennas for 5G reception. As of now, there’s no word from the company regarding the internal specifications or the launch date, but we expect to learn more about the Huawei Nova 6 as its launch draws closer.

        Source: 91Mobiles
      
We now have another look at the Huawei Nova 6 with dual hole-punch cameras on the front. This render is of the 4G model and it shows the phone in three colors: black/silver, blue, and purple. The dual hole-punch is on the left side of the display. More important that the render, however, is a rumored launch date. Apparently, the date shown on the lock screen in the render is the launch date: December 5th.

        Source: Android Headlines
      
Evan ‘evleaks’ Blass has shared a render of the Red color variant of the Huawei Nova 6 5G.

        Source: Evan Blass (private)
      

        Note: The featured image is a Photoshopped version of the Huawei Nova 4.
      
