
# ‘Send aid to Davao del Sur, Cotabato’

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:35:18+00:00**

Author: **Jester P. Manalastas**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/send-aid-davao-del-sur-cotabato)

In a statement Mayor Duterte said the city government of Davao is organizing relief operations for Davao del Norte and North Cotabato.
According to the presidential daughter, they have been getting numerous calls from individuals and establishments wanting to help Davao City following the series of earthquakes that also hit many towns in Southern and Central Mindanao.
“Since we do not have evacuees and victims can be taken care of by the City Government of Davao, we shall direct donations to where they are needed the most this time — to the provinces of Davao del Sur and North Cotabato,” the mayor said.
She said donations should be delivered to the Task Force Davao Headquarters at the Sta. Ana Wharf, particularly to Col. Consolito Yecla.
“The City Government of Davao will organize a relief distribution for Davao Del Sur and North Cotabato as soon as possible,” she added.

        Dangerous structures
      
In another development, ACT-CIS Rep. Eric Go Yap lamented that some of the structures in the country may not be or are no longer structurally ready for calamities like the recent earthquakes.
Yap condemned the continued selling of substandard materials on the market particularly steel products.
“I know Chinese nationals who are into this kind of business, they bring in substandard steel products so their prices are competitive and they make money at our consumers’ expense, which is a clear violation of the Consumer Act of the Philippines. There are warehouses in Cavite selling substandard steel pipes and substandard deformed bars in northern part of the country and I will be more than willing to name them in a proper forum at a proper time,” Yap discloses.
“I appeal to our stakeholders to report incidents like these and for our businessmen to not patronize poor quality products as we clearly put lives at risk with this kind of practice,” he added.
Meanwhile, Yap said he supports the call of Speaker Cayetano  to review the National Building Code
The solon intends to file a bill to repeal Presidential Decree No. 1096 and replace it with an updated one to fit present conditions.

        Duterte order
      
President Rodrigo Duterte has ordered local government units (LGUs) to inspect the integrity of buildings nationwide as three powerful earthquakes hit Mindanao in two weeks.
“Well, it is time for the LGUs to inspect all buildings. They should start now,” Duterte told reporters in Davao City Thursday night.
“The earthquake season has come. I don’t know if it will occur again between now and tomorrow,” he added.
Duterte’s house in Davao City was not spared as cracks were seen inside his room following Thursday’s powerful tremor.
He said the Presidential Security Group would inspect his house on Friday.
“The PSG said, they are insisting that it will be inspected,” he said.
“Even the DPWH, the structural engineers of the city government (will also inspect),” he added.
A 6.5-magnitude quake hit Central Mindanao on Thursday, killing at least five people.
The strong temblor came just two days after a 6.6-magnitude quake rocked the region and left eight dead.
A 6.3 magnitude tremor also hit Mindanao on October 16.
Duterte, who is set to fly to Bangkok on Friday night for the 35th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit has ordered government agencies to extend “immediate relief” to residents of areas affected by the earthquake.   

        PPA, PCG send aid
      
Following the magnitude 6.5 earthquake that hit several parts of Mindanao Wednesday morning, the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) and the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), both attached agencies of the Department of Transportation (DOTr), immediately mobilized to aid affected citizens.
DOTr Secretary Arthur Tugade directed the PPA and PCG to exhaust all efforts in providing the necessary help and support to local and provincial governments.
“Sa loob ng isang linggo, dalawang lindol ang nagdaan sa Mindanao. Sa panahong ito, tayo ay magkaisa at magkapit-bisig upang matulungan ang ating mga kababayan. Gawin natin ang lahat ng ating makakaya na maihatid ang anumang tulong na kailangan ng publiko,” Secretary Tugade stressed.
Shortly after the transportation chief’s directive, PPA General Manager Jay Santiago instructed all Project Management Offices (PMOs) in affected areas to properly coordinate with the local Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), Local Government Units (LGUs), and local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Offices (DRRMOs) on how they can offer assistance in disaster management efforts.

        
          With EMontano, Jun I. Legazpi
        
      
