
# Tyson Fury denies Deontay Wilder's claims Brit is trying to run from rematch

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:11:54+00:00**

Author: **Ned Keating**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/tyson-fury-denies-deontay-wilders-20823675)

Tyson Fury has strongly denied Deontay Wilder's claims that the Brit no longer wants a rematch with his American foe.
The unbeaten heavyweights faced off in a titanic clash in Los Angeles last December, with the Gypsy King dramatically climbing off the canvas to claim a draw.
Ever since that night late last year, speculation has been rife that the pair will meet again in the ring to settle their differences.
A contract has been signed between the pair for a rematch, with February 22 the most likely date for a bout to take place.
However, the Bronze Bomber earlier this week accused Fury of trying to run from the fight, prompting the response from the Brit.
In a video uploaded to his Instagram account, the lineal world champ said:"This is a message to address Deontay Wilder's recent comments on how I don't want to fight him.
"Oh, how afraid of him I am," said a sarcastic Fury.
He continued: "If I was afraid of you, I wouldn't have fought you after having three years out of the ring and beaten you in your own country, but you had to rob me and give me a draw.
"I don't know why on Earth you think I'm bothered about you. Just get through your fight with (Luis) Ortiz (on November 23), do your own thing and stop using my name for relevance.
"You should be on 20 per cent (for our rematch), but you're not and I'm giving you a fair share because I'm a fair man.
"I don't ask for anything in this world, I work hard for everything.
"The thing is with you Wilder, crack on with your own business and I'll see you February 22 to finish what I started. This time you're going to get smashed you big bum dosser."
Fury's response comes just a day after he replaced fellow Brit Dillian Whyte as the mandatory challenger for Wilder's WBC strap.
