
# Andrew Yang on Trump's vaping ban: 'We're headed in the right direction'

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:08:14+00:00**

Author: **Emily Larsen**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/andrew-yang-on-trumps-vaping-ban-were-headed-in-the-right-direction)

FAIRFAX, Virginia – Andrew Yang expressed agreement with President Trump's push to ban and regulate electronic cigarette and vaping products.
"I think that we are late to the game in regulating vaping at this point, because it is causing illness and injuries and even deaths among minors in particular," Yang, 44, told the Washington Examiner on Monday when asked about an expected Trump administration ban on flavored vaping products. "So, I agree that we're headed in the right direction if we're taking steps. It is a bit overdue."
The Trump administration is expected to announce a ban this week on vaping flavors except for tobacco and menthol, Axios reported Friday. That would take mint flavors off the market, which accounts for about 70% of U.S. sales for electronic cigarette giant Juul.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported in early October that vaping was linked to 26 deaths and nearly 1,300 illnesses nationwide, stressing that people should "particularly" avoid vaping products with THC, the chemical in marijuana that causes a high.
Juul last month halted sales of fruit flavors following criticism of the company's role in a teen vaping epidemic. Also last month, the House Ways and Means Committee approved a nicotine vaping tax that would amount to $1.15 per 5% nicotine content Juul pod.
