
# Tristan Raphael guilty of shooting fellow gang member

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:00:14+00:00**

Author: **Heather Polischuk**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/crime/tristan-raphael-guilty-of-shooting-fellow-gang-member)

With three wildly differing stories to consider, a Regina judge decided only one of them was credible.
That finding was sufficient for Regina Provincial Court Judge James Rybchuk to determine Tristan Lee Raphael had shot fellow gangster Ethan Vanharten-Bagi — even though Vanharten-Bagi had tried his best to pin the blame elsewhere.
“Mr. Vanharten’s evidence did absolutely nothing to bolster Mr. Raphael’s evidence, and in fact only served to undermine and damage both of their credibility considerably,” Rybchuk said.
But despite finding Raphael did indeed fire a shot from a shotgun that left Vanharten-Bagi with a softball-sized hole in the leg, the judge said he was unable to find Raphael intended to kill the other man. Rybchuk found Raphael not guilty of attempted murder as charged, but guilty of the lesser offence of discharging a firearm with intent. Raphael was also convicted of two breaches of a firearms prohibition and breaching a release condition.
Court heard the shooting occurred on Jan. 3 at a Wascana Street gang house used at the time by members of the Native Syndicate Killers and Indian Mafia. The specific details of the offence became the subject of Rybchuk’s decision as he heard two vastly conflicting on-the-stand versions from Vanharten-Bagi and a female witness who was present at the house. While Raphael didn’t take the stand, his videotaped police statement was played in court, and it contained yet another version.
According to Raphael, he was in a bedroom when the house was rushed by a rival gang, during which one of them shot Vanharten-Bagi inside the house. Vanharten-Bagi told the court he wasn’t inside the house at all, but was wounded in a drive-by shooting while on the back deck.
The woman — whose testimony Rybchuk ultimately believed — told the court Raphael was a high-ranking member of the NSK when he got after Vanharten-Bagi for leaving a gun loaded. She said Vanharten-Bagi wanted to take the gun with him on a drug run. Raphael said no, leading to a dispute between the two.
The woman said Raphael advised the other man he would shoot him, to which Vanharten-Bagi challenged him to do it. Raphael did.
Rybchuk examined the evidence of each person in detail, stating that of the two men was impacted in part by the fact they each made it clear they didn’t intend to answer questions they felt went outside “the code” they follow as gang members. Rybchuk noted the two referred to each other as “brothers” — giving Vanharten-Bagi cause to protect Raphael — and that neither of their stories was backed up by other evidence.
Conversely, Rybchuk noted the woman had no existing criminal record and provided evidence that at times wasn’t flattering to herself, suggesting honesty. Rybchuk added her version of events had the “ring of truth” to it, in part because the evidence — the nature of the gunshot wound and small droplets of blood found on Raphael suggestive of being near Vanharten-Bagi when he was shot — backed up her testimony.
Rybchuk added it took a SWAT team and a canister of gas to get Raphael out of the house — a fact more indicative of guilt than a man who had just tried to save a wounded friend.
Prosecutor Adam Breker said the Crown will consider whether to launch dangerous offender proceedings. The case returns to court on Nov. 28.

        hpolischuk@postmedia.com
      

        twitter.com/LPHeatherP
      
