
# This Logitech One-Day Sale Is One You Can't Miss

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:35:11+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-logitech-blue-microphone-artemis-black-friday-sale-deal.html)

Amazon is holding a one-day Logitech sale today, where you can save up to 40-percent off of a number of gaming products. From Bluetooth mice to keyboards, to even BLUE microphones, which hardly ever go on sale.
This is all part of Amazon's Gold Box Deal of the Day, and that means that these will only be on sale today, and expired at midnight PST.
In this deal, you can get the Logitech K400 Plus wireless keyboard for just $17.98. That is a pretty crazy deal for a wireless keyboard. The popular Logitech MX Master mouse is also on sale for $47, and that's actually good for more than half off of its regular price. And great for gamers and video editors.
Advertisement
The Logitech G633 Artemis Spectrum gaming headset is also on sale for just $49.99, and that's good for a whopping $100 off of its regular price. If you have someone on your list this year that is a gamer, and is in need of a new headset, this is definitely the one to get.
When it comes to BLUE microphones, there are a number of them on sale in this deal today. Including the BLUE Yeti which is $89.99 – and it's available in silver and that cool looking blue. This is good for $60 off of its regular price. There is also the BLUE Yeti Nano that is on sale for $69.99 ($30 off), and this has everything of the regular Yeti, but in a much smaller package. Finally, the BLUE Condenser microphone is on sale for just $89.99, down from $129.99.
You can get all of these and so much more in this one-day Logitech Sale, but you'd better hurry as these aren't going to last long and could go out of stock pretty quickly. You can shop this Logitech sale over at Amazon by clicking here.
Advertisement

        Logitech PC Sale - Amazon
      
