
# Headteacher can watch over pupils more easily thanks to new £25 million South Ayrshire school design

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:45:46+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Hilley, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/sarah-hilley/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/headteacher-can-watch-over-pupils-20824585)

Headteacher Oonagh Browne said the layout of the new £25 million Queen Margaret Academy means she keep an eye on pupils more easily. 
The stunning high school boasts balconies overlooking open areas with children going about their school day. 
The teens  were welcomed to their secondary by a bagpiper last month. Delighted pupils marched in the main entrance while teachers watched the celebratory procession from a raised platform. School boss Ms Browne said: “I think the facilities are just exceptional. You can’t compare it to the old building. 
“My worry was the sense of community might change but I think it is even better here.
"People are talking and you can see the kids all the time.
“In the old building there were three different areas. It is hard not to see every child here. You can be there in the morning checking in the kids. It is just great being able to see all the staff every day.”
The architecture, which promotes open space means everyone gets at peek each other regularly as they move about the building.  
A gym, automative engineering workshop, sports courts and music rooms packed full of instruments and recording equipment are just a few of the highlights inside.
Security is also a priority with office doors automatically locking on the  outside as they close. 
An illuminated stained glass cross in the oratory holds a prominent space in the Catholic school. The space for worship  is entirely open but it can be screened off for mindfulness classes or other occasions when required. 
Ms Browne said the oratory and a games area were her favourite rooms. 
Sitting in her office with a view of the Carrick Hills, she  said: “The oratory is at the heart of the school. The children designed the stained glass for the cross.”
Commenting on the children’s reaction to the new school she said: “I think they were overwhelmed at first. There was a quietness when they came in on Thursday and Friday. But now they are excited to be in the space. They love it.”
A number of areas are open to the public and there is a separate reception area for people to use.
Ms Browne took the Ayrshire Local Democracy Reporting Service on a tour of the building.
The replacement secondary has been built beside the now vacated former building on Dalmellington Road. 
It has  room for up to 800 teen but has 600 pupils currently. 
