
# Arsenal axed eight staff members to find a solution to the disharmony at club

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:40:06+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenals-reason-suddenly-axing-eight-20821698)

Arsenal's coaching staff cull was part of a long-held plan to streamline the club's behind-the-scene operation, according to reports.
The Gunners are set to part company with no fewer than eight members of staff including head of youth recruitment Steve Morrow, who was told he is no longer needed in north London.
Morrow was an Arsenal player from 1988 to 1997, and famously netted the winning goal in the 1993 Coca-Cola Cup final against Sheffield Wednesday.
He later broke his arm in the post-match celebrations when he was dropped by Tony Adams.
Arsenal are also set to part company with Kevin Beadell, Dan Rice and Dave Lee, who each held recruitment positions at the Emirates.
According to The Athletic, Arsenal technical director Edu was behind the cull.
The Brazilian was surprised by how bloated the club's coaching staff had become when he returned after the summer and began wielding the axe.
The report adds that Edu had long-term plans to streamline Arsenal's internal operation.
He was also keen to find a solution to the disharmony between Gunners' academy manager Per Mertesacker and Morrow.
Morrow's departure will hand Mertesacker more control over the academy, and allow him to implement his philosophy from the bottom up.
The club felt that the academy had been stagnating in recent years, despite success stories in the form of Joe Willock and Bukayo Saka.
And they are hoping that this shake-up can get things back on track.
