
# 'Salah Dives More Than Mane'

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:28:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/mohamed-salah-dives-more-than-sadio-mane/666786)

Liverpool star Sadio Mane has come in for criticism recently after being accused of diving, but a former Premier League boss believes the Senegalese's teammate Mohamed Salah is much worse at trying to deceive the referees.

        
          Read: The Highest-Paid Coaches In England Revealed
        
      
Mane was criticised following Liverpool's win over Aston Villa last weekend after he was booked for simulation for seemingly diving under a challenge from Frederic Guilbert, despite replays suggesting there was contact.
After the match, former EPL manager Sam Allardyce, who was at the helm of the likes of the Everton, Crystal Palace, West Ham United, Newcastle United and Bolton Wanderers, weighed in with his opinion on the situation, and accused Mane's teammate Salah of being a bigger "diver".
"I think Mo Salah is more inclined to do that than Mane," Allardyce told talkSPORT.
"Certainly, in the last year, people were pointing out that Salah was going down too easily and won a huge amount of penalties that perhaps he didn't quite deserve.

        Click through the gallery below to see the leading African goalscorers in Premier League history, including Mane and Salah!
      
"But if you get the contact, you have got to make the referee's mind up, and you've got VAR to determine now whether it is a dive.
"The problem you've got here is they are not judging if the contact is accidental. The ruling of 'intentional' seems to have gone out the window – it's just if there is contact.
"Going down in the box, certainly most strikers if they feel contact and are not going to score, will go down."

        
          Read: Liverpool Equal All-Time EPL Record
        
      
Mane had the last laugh against Villa, though, scoring the match-winning goal for Liverpool in the fourth minute of additional time.
