
# I’m stuck in a hospital that’s starved of funds – let’s not forget the NHS when we vote

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:56:36+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Hale**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/07/trapped-nhs-starved-of-funds-vote)


        Five months trapped in a hospital bed has shown me how badly austerity and privatisation have affected services
      
Over the summer, the NHS quietly saved my life several times. On each occasion, it caught a rapid worsening of my underlying condition, allowing me to be treated quickly and efficiently. Yet I’ve also witnessed at first hand the immense strain the NHS is under, a situation that could worsen should a hard Brexit come about, not least from any potential US trade deal that could pave the way for significantly higher drug prices.
Brexit will inevitably be the key focus in this election campaign. But the issues facing the NHS go far beyond Brexit – including its crumbling infrastructure and an underfunded system blighted by privatisation, dramatically affecting patient care.
When I was admitted in June, it quickly became clear that I needed to be transferred to a more specialist hospital; but due to a lack of capacity there, I was held in an acute bed in the hospital I was admitted to for about three months. In 2017, Age UK estimated the cost of an excess bed to be between £2,000 and £2,500 per week, suggesting a minimum cost of £24,000. Had the bed in the specialist hospital been immediately available, that money could have been saved. This is a symptom of a system crippled by underfunding.
During my time in hospital, I’ve also experienced problems with the privatisation of services such as portering and patient transport. When I was transferred late at night from one hospital to the next by a privatised patient transport service, I was told I was allowed a maximum of one bag: did I want to leave my feeding tube pump or my ventilator (never mind my own possessions) behind? In the end, after an argument, I was allowed to bring everything because I was travelling alone and there was space, but a confused or less confident patient might not have been so successful.
