
# Rangers legend Nacho Novo opens up on his heart health battles to help schoolgirl through surgery

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Nicholas Keyden, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/nicholas-keyden/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/rangers-legend-nacho-novo-opens-20807062)

A young girl recovering from her fifth major heart operation got the surprise of her life during an emotional hospital visit from Nacho Novo.
Emily Thomson had just undergone a gruelling 10-hour surgery when she was visited by the Rangers legend at the Royal Children's Hospital in Glasgow on Wednesday, October 30.
The 13-year-old and her twin sister were each born with a hole in the heart and had to go under the knife just days after being born.
While Sophie has avoided any major health problems since, Emily has endured an endless cycle of check-ups, hospital visits and surgeries.
It's left her fearing for the future and her morale at an all-time low.
But the smile is "back on her face" thanks to an hour and a half chat with the 40-year-old former striker who held back the tears during their meeting.
Beloved dad and lifelong Light Blues fan Robert managed to organise the visit after telling Novo his daughter's story at his NN10 bar in Kinning Park.
Robert told the Record: "The look on her face when he walked in was absolutely priceless, it was indescribable.
 
"Her morale was so low and she was in so much pain, but he put her at ease and made her feel very relaxed. She opened up so much to him and let him know she was scared.
"Since her last surgery she hadn't smiled and was angry that she had to go through it all, but he made such a huge difference.
"I've not seen her smile like that in a long time. He sat and told her what he went through, all about his recovery, advice on coming out of hospital.
"He told her some days are a real struggle, but you just have to keep going.
"She keeps saying 'Nacho told me to do this, Nacho told me to do that. He's really cheered me up!'.
"He was so reassuring and really cared about what she was going through because he'd suffered the same way she has."
The Ibrox legend was hospitalised in January 2018 after being struck down with a heart attack while playing in a Rangers legends match in Germany.
He was rushed to a Berlin hospital where he underwent emergency surgery.
The Record then revealed Novo feared he would die after suffering a stroke just weeks later, leaving him paralysed and unable to speak for two days.
He relived his harrowing ordeal with Emily, telling her how lucky he was to pull through after doctors told him there was just a five per cent chance of surviving such an attack.
He also said he didn’t know he had heart problems during his playing days and that he thought his chest was "just a bit tight" when he had his heart attack.
And it's won't be the last time the pair meet up to chat as Novo is set to visit the family at their Parkhead home in Glasgow's east end in the future.
Posting a picture of the pair on Instagram, Novo wrote: "happy to see u last night u are a warrior keep fighting and I will see u again."
Writing back, new pal Emily responded: "Thank u so much for coming to see me u made me feel better and gave me good advice. See u again."
Robert added: "The whole family are lifelong Rangers fans and we go to the games all the time.
 
"Nacho is more my generation, but I've told Emily and her sister Sophie all about him, so they are all clued up. It meant so much to us all that he showed up.
"He got really emotional while talking to her. She got a cuddle with him and he told her everything will be okay and promised to be there for her if she ever needed someone to talk to you.
"The difference he has made in her life is so touching for her because of what he went through. It was really, really special."
It comes after we revealed Novo will be pulling on his boots again - after signing for Corkerhill over-35s in Glasgow.
The Spaniard retired in 2017 after a final season with Glentoran, and has been a regular in the Rangers legends team since.
