
# What to know if you’re in a relationship with a co-worker and the most obese state in America

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:51:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Keshner**

Original: [MarketWatch](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/what-to-know-if-youre-in-a-relationship-with-a-co-worker-and-the-most-obese-state-in-america-2019-11-05?amp%3Bsiteid=rss&amp%3Brss=1)

Happy Tuesday MarketWatchers! Don’t miss these top stories:
The best person to help women get to the top is a woman who’s already there, writes Kate Byrne.
Demand for this luxury material in the U.S. has actually increased in recent years.
‘We have lent them considerable money, but his wife now denies it was a loan.’
Southern states are struggling the most in the battle of the bulge
Rules on workplace relationships are becoming increasingly common in the #MeToo era.
The company announced new efforts to address unauthorized parties after a shooting tragedy in California.
‘It was like a five-ton elephant being lifted off your shoulders.’
Fasten your seat belt — it’s going to be a bumpy night. Imagine watching ‘Fast and Furious’ at 1.5X speed.
‘There remain racial/ethnic disparities in receipt of culturally competent care.’
Shake Shack is trying it, too. And a recent study found employees were 20% more productive — and much happier — working 4-day weeks.
As voters across the country cast their ballots Tuesday in a range of state and local races, analysts are watching to see what this off-year Election Day could signal about the battle for the White House and other 2020 contests.
The nation’s trade deficit fell almost 5% in September to a five-month low, aided by the first surplus in petroleum since at least 1978 and a decline in imports from Germany and China.
The U.S. ambassador to the European Union said in amended testimony released Tuesday that he remembered telling a top Ukrainian official that U.S. aid to the country had a condition: announcing a probe sought by President Donald Trump.
The Securities and Exchange Commission proposed two long-anticipated rules on Tuesday that seeks to limit shareholders’ influence over how companies address contentious issues such as climate change and executive compensation.
Consumers expectations of inflation has fallen to the lowest level since measurement started in 2013, according to a New York Fed survey released Tuesday.
If you had invested $100 at the beginning of this century in shares of Netflix, your position would be worth more than $23,000 today. Not bad... for second best.
