
# Man jailed after subjecting mother to deplorable ordeal

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:11:32+00:00**

Author: **Bert Houston**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/man-jailed-after-subjecting-mother-20788606)

A Dumfries man has been jailed for subjecting his 62-year-old mum to a “frightening” ordeal while demanding money from her.
Craig Hornby threatened her with violence and warned her: “I’ll blow up your car.”
The sheriff court heard how Hornby repeatedly phoned and messaged her and turned up on her doorstep and demanded that she go to the bank to withdraw £100.
As they did so, she went to steer the car towards the police station and he told her: “Don’t even think about it or I’ll break your jaw.”
Jailing him for 200 days, Sheriff David Hall said: “For you, a man of 42, to treat your mother this way is deplorable.”
Hornby, of Terregles Street, Dumfries, pleaded guilty to threatening his mum with violence and shouting and swearing at her at Laghall Court, Kingholm Quay, in September.
He also admitted repeatedly demanding money, instructing her not to tell the police and forcing her to hand over £100 she withdrew from an ATM.
The court was told that initially he sent text messages which she deleted and these were followed by telephone calls despite protests that she didn’t have money to give him.
He eventually arrived at the house and demanded that she give him money and kept insisting that she give him cash.
The fiscal depute said: “She then decided to take him to the bank and show him that she had no money and used the ATM to reveal that she had minus £8 in it.”
But he maintained she had another account at another bank and she tried to steer him towards the police station.
It was then that he threatened her with violence and that he would blow up her car.
She was then forced to go to the other bank where she withdrew £100 and gave him the money before going to the police station.
A solicitor said Hornby accepted that he had acted in a way which made her frightened.
