
# Thai Airways chairman says crisis forced his resignation, not politics

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:09:07+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Bangkok**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/bangkok/news/thai-airways-chairman-says-crisis-forced-his-resignation-not-politics/)

The chairman of Thailand’s national carrier said today that his decision to quit the state-owned enterprise was due to its financial struggles, not politics.
Ekniti Nitithanprapas today dismissed rumors that his weekend resignation as chairman of Thai Airways International was due to political pressure from the top and instead blamed the crisis buffeting the “smooth as silk” airline.
“The seniors of this committee believed everyone has done their best, were talented and did not have any problems. I guarantee that I’m not getting any political pressure,” Ekniti told reporters.

        Plans to shutter Hat Yai and Chiang Rai airports shot down
      
He explained that it was a “normal” and necessary step to get the large state enterprise back above the clouds.
It happened against a wash of whispers that Transport Minister Saksayam Chidchob wants to replace all members of the airline’s board – and more than a dozen other state-run companies – with his own people.
The airline’s value has been sliding on the exchange (THAI) ever since it hit a six-year peak just shy of THB30 per share three years ago. It slumped even further today, falling to THB8.15.
In late October, the airline’s president, Sumeth Damrongchaitham, made waves when he announced that the airline was at risk of shutting down without intervention.
Last week, when Saksayam shot down Airports of Thailand’s plan to shutter two airports, he acknowledged that the kingdom’s commercial air sector was in dire shape, financially.
Thai Airlines had been a favorite punching bag of the military government which seized power in 2014, in part because it was seen as too cozy to the political dynasty of former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, whose younger sister was overthrown in the coup d’etat.
The airline waited until after the markets had closed Friday night to announce Ekniti’s resignation in a vaguely worded statement forwarded to the Stock Exchange of Thailand. It also said Air Chief Marshal Chaiyapruk Didyasarin had taken over as acting chairman. Ekniti took the job in July 2018. Prior to his appointment, he was director-general of the Revenue Department in the Finance Ministry.
The statement, which did not provide a reason for Ekniti’s unanticipated resignation, follows the recent departure of three other executive directors.

        Related:
      

        Plans to shutter Hat Yai and Chiang Rai airports shot down
      

        Chiang Rai, Hat Yai may lose airports due to losses
      

        Transport chief walks back Bangkok taxi fare hike vow
      

        Bangkok taxi fares set to rise, Grab cars to go legal
      

        Next Stop: 15B flat fares, says new Thai transpo chief
      

        Third Bangkok airport proposed to ease overcrowding pain
      
