
# Doors for holding talks with opposition always open: Firdous

Published at: **2019-11-04T06:53:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/517076-Doors-for-holding-talks-with-opposition-always-open:-Firdous)

ISLAMABAD (Dunya News) - Special Assistant to Prime Minister on Information and Broadcasting Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan on Sunday welcomed Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman’s gesture of stepping down from his ultimatum to go to D-Chowk
Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan expressed these views while addressing at press conference here with Minister for Religious Affairs Noorul Haq Qadari. She said that the government’s desires for talks should not be considered as weakness and added that the government’s offer of dialogue was not out of any fear or pressure.
She said that Azadi March and sit-in of JUI-F is disturbing life of residents of the twin cities as they are unable to easily reach their offices and students cannot attend their classes regularly.
Firdous Ashiq Awan said that the government did not close its doors for holding dialogue with the opposition. She said that doors are open to hold dialogue with the opposition to resolve all issues. She said that government is ready for dialogue on electoral reforms and economic reforms or any other issue.
Firdous Ashiq Awan urged the opposition parties to come up with positive and viable recommendations with regard to electoral and economic reforms if they have.
While welcoming Maulana’s gesture of stepping down from his ultimatum to go to D-Chowk, she said difference of opinion was the essence of democracy but no one would be allowed to hostage the state through confrontation and pressure tactics.
Speaking on the occasion, Minister for Religious Affairs Noorul Haq Qadari urged JUI-F chief to avoid playing ‘religious card’ for political gains. It was completely regrettable if someone uses religious card for political purpose, he said. 
