
# Target Black Friday 2019 Sales: What We Know So Far

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/11/02/target-black-friday-2019-sales-what-we-know-so-far-iphone-galaxy-s10-note10-apple-watch-ps4-xbox-one-airpods-deals/)

Target Black Friday has yet to begin despite the first deals already going live from Walmart, from Best Buy and there’s a big Apple sale current live from Amazon. That said, historically Target’s Black Friday deals suggest it will deliver some of the best holiday sales around and now the pieces of the puzzle are coming together. 

        Amazon Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Target’s Black Friday 2019 Shipping Policy Is Official
      
Just like Best Buy, Target has now made its Black Friday 2019 shipping fees official and (as I predicted in my Target Black Friday preview) they among the best around. Target will give shipping on all orders over the holiday season with no minimum purchase price. Target is also investing heavily in Target Circle, its same-day delivery service, to make more goods available for click and collect than ever before. 

        Target Black Friday 2019: Expected Sales
      
Historically, Target likes to price match with rivals then beat them on Cyber Monday. Given we now have live sales from multiple rivals which already set the bar (including one major ad leak) and a good idea when Target deals will go live, a clear picture is forming. Consequently, these are the deals you should look out for during Target’s Black Friday 2019: 

        Walmart Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
Yes, the take away from this is Black Friday deals will be widely copied between the biggest stores so the key will be finding where stock is still available. With that in mind, I recommend getting live deals from rivals now because stock will run low very quickly on Black Friday itself. That said, doorbuster deals on the iPhone 11 series, Galaxy S10 and Note 10 won’t go live until Black Friday. 
Where I expect Target to stand out is TVs after some red hot deals last year and its famed Cyber Monday sales where the store repeats many of the same deals but with extra discounts for REDcard holders. 
Meanwhile, if you’re looking for a bargain right now, check out my dedicated store-by-store, Black Friday live deals guides with live Amazon deals here, live Best Buy deals here and live Walmart deals here. 
To track my daily Black Friday guides, leaks and recommendations hit the Follow button on my author page. 
___

        More of my Black Friday Guides on Forbes
      
