
# Middendorp: Who Is Benefiting?

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/middendorp-benefiting-happens/666624)

With the spotlight on match officials again during the Soweto Derby between Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates on Saturday afternoon, it was only natural that the coaches would be asked for their opinion of referee, Jelly Chavani.
The game went into penalties after a 2-2 stalemate in the fight for a semifinal spot in the Telkom Knockout, and Amakhosi were 6-4 winners in the end.

        Read: Desperate Plea To The PSL 
      
But there were still talk of how Chavani had handled the match, which also produced a red card when Pirates right back Mthokozisi Dube received his marching orders five minutes into the second half at Moses Mabhida Stadium.   
“I was hoping nobody would ask this question – I don’t agree with this statement about benefitting,” said Chiefs coach Ernst Middendorp to reporters after the match.
“Who is benefitting? Pirates? Sundowns? Highlands Park? Black Leopards? Here and there, other teams? Probably here and there Chiefs? Benefitting, it happens, it is normal. Did you see the goal for Bloemfontein Celtic against SuperSport? Have you seen the tackles from Pirates against Highlands Park? They do their best and we must not overthink it or highlight it.”
Last week the PSL wrote letters to four coaches – Pitso Mosimane, Owen da Gama, Steve Komphela and Benni McCarthy – to explain their recent comments regarding match officials after they felt decisions had gone against them.
Mosimane had also argued that Chiefs “benefit” the most from the errors.  
“I repeat, the only solution is that professional match officials have to come in, meaning that everybody is prepared and have targets. They come in to do their best and have the next job to focus on. We must all be professional,” said Middendorp.

        Read: 'Pirates Don't Need This Coach' 
      
