
# Wells Fargo’s Stock Looks Fairly Priced In Light Of Expected Revenue Pressure

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/05/wells-fargos-stock-looks-fairly-priced-in-light-of-expected-revenue-pressure/)

Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) is the fourth largest bank in the U.S and offers commercial banking, consumer banking, insurance, wealth management, investment banking and mortgage services to clients around the world. Trefis has a price estimate of $51 for Wells Fargo’s stock which is around the current market price. Our price estimate takes into account Wells Fargo’s earnings release for the third quarter (with the bank falling short of consensus earnings estimates), and the recent interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve. For the third quarter, Wells Fargo reported $22 billion in total revenues thanks to a 22% jump in wealth & investment management that mitigated the impact of a 5% decline in wholesale banking as well as community banking segments on the top line. Notably, the bank recently appointed Charles Scharf as new CEO and president, who faces the challenging task of convincing the Fed that Wells Fargo’s internal controls are now strong enough.We have detailed the key components of Wells Fargo’s Valuation in an interactive dashboard, along with our forecast for the full year 2019. Additionally, you can see more Trefis data for financial companies here.

        The stock price estimate can be divided into 4 factors: Stock Price = (Total revenue x Net income margin / No. of shares outstanding) x P/E Ratio
      
Our interactive dashboard for Wells Fargo details what is driving changes in revenues of Wells Fargo’s individual revenue streams along with our forecast for the next three years?

        This Will Lower The Net Income Despite Improvement On The Cost Front
      

        And Lends Support To A $51 Price Estimate For Wells Fargo’s Shares
      
Details about how Wells Fargo’s P/E multiple compares with peers Citigroup, JPMorgan and Bank of America is available in our interactive dashboard.
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
