
# Cincinnati Reds Unveil New Alternate Jersey As Nike Makes Their MLB Jersey Debut

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Demetrius Bell**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/demetriusbell/2019/11/01/cincinnati-reds-unveil-new-alternate-jersey-as-nike-makes-their-mlb-jersey-debut/)

With the World Series now in the rear-view mirror, we’re starting to see the winds of change blow across baseball as the offseason gets underway. As such, there are some teams that aren’t wasting much time unveiling their new looks. One of those teams is the Cincinnati Reds, who have unveiled both a new jersey for spring training and a new alternate uniform as well. The jerseys themselves are pretty standard when it comes to baseball uniforms. It appears that the big change on the new 2020 spring training jersey is that Mr. Redleg’s head is replacing the Old English “C” logo that was on the left-hand side of the jersey from 2019. Also, the new alternate jersey has the “Reds” script logo across the chest, instead of splitting the chest with the number,the piping, and the Reds logo.
The uniforms themselves are honestly simple and plain. It’s a run-of-the-mill baseball uniform and they’re not really deviating in a major way from their visual identity. It fits right in with the rest of the uniform set, which means that these additions are just fine and nothing to complain about at all.
With that being said, the Reds are indeed making history here with this unveiling. Shortly after they posted the above Tweet, they posted another Tweet that showed the authentic jerseys already on sale.
And there it is. On the right hand side of the jersey above the “Reds” script logo, the Nike swoosh is sitting right there. This is the first sign that we’re now in a new era of uniforms in Major League Baseball. Not only is the Nike Swoosh on the jersey, it’s not on the sleeve like Majestic’s logo was. It’s front and center and it’s as noticeable as you can get. You can’t miss it, which is basically the point of placing the logo where it is.
We knew that this was coming back when it was announced that Nike was going to be the new jersey manufacturer for MLB, but it’s still a bit jarring to actually see it in place on an actual uniform. It may turn out to be one of those things that we get used to – similar to how the New Era flag logo suddenly just became normal once the decision was made to put it on the left side of all on-field caps.
With that being said, it’s still going to take a while to actually get used to seeing the Swoosh on the front of the jersey. Maybe this will be temporary and they’ll eventually move it to the sleeves, but at this point I’d say that this is wishful thinking and that the Swoosh’s place is here to stay as long as Nike is making the jerseys. It may not be the best look from a uniform purist’s standpoint, but it’s best for letting everybody know exactly who’s making the jerseys.
If you choose to buy the jerseys, this may end up being a deal where the replicas don’t have the Swoosh on the front and the authentic jerseys do. We also don’t have too many details about how that will go, so this purely speculation on my part. Either way, it’s clear that we have entered a new era when it comes to baseball uniforms and it’ll be something to look out for as we see even more uniforms get unveiled during this offseason.
