
# Starting XI: SuperSport v Arrows

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:50:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/match-reports/telkom-knockout-quarter-final-starting-xi-supersport-united-v-golden-arrows-02-november-2019/666579)


        Telkom Knockout
      
Teams: SuperSport United and Golden Arrows
Date: 02 November 2019
Venue: Mbombela Stadium
SuperSport United will be hoping to maintain their unbeaten streak in cup competitions this season when they host Golden Arrows in the Telkom Knockout quarter-finals on Saturday night at Mbombela Stadium.
The match is set to kickstart at 201h5.
Matsatsantsa are undefeated in cup competitions so far this season after winning the MTN8 title early in October, while they needed penalties to knock out defending champions Baroka FC in the previous round.
The Tshwane outfit have won the Telkom Knockout once in 2014 under the guidance of Gordon Igesund. Last season, they reached the quarter-finals of this tournament but they were eventually knocked out by Kaizer Chiefs.
SuperSport’s last competitive outing was a 1-1 draw with Bloemfontein Celtic in the league on Wednesday.
Meanwhile, Abafana Bes’thende edged Polokwane City 1-0 in extra-time in the first round clash to reach this stage and beat the same side 2-0 in the league last weekend.
Last season, Arrows were knocked out in the first round of this tournament after suffering a 2-0 defeat to eventual winners Bakgaga.

        Here's how they line up:
      
SuperSport: 30. Williams, 14. Bhasera, 18. Nhlapo, 20. Kekana, 4. Daniels, 8. Furman, 24. Mbule, 13. Gabuza, 16. Modiba, 13. Grobler, 28. Mokoena.
Subs: 33. Pule, 12. Webber, 3. Khumalo, 25. Fleurs, 19. Rusike, 11. Mahachi, 15. Qalinge.
Arrows: 30. Sibanda, 14. S.Dube, 29. Sibisi, 20. Mathiane, 13. Lunga, 35. Mtshali, 26. Phiri, 5. Shitolo, 16. Parusnath, 33. M.Gumede, 18. Mutizwa.
Subs: 32. N.Gumede, 23. Dube, 2. Nkombelo, 7. Matloga, 4. Venter, 2. Sibeko, 11. Sibaya.
