
# The moment Birmingham politics teacher 'destroys' Boris Johnson on Question Time over burqa jibe

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:37:29+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/moment-birmingham-politics-teacher-destroys-17184552)

A Question Time audience member from Birmingham has been hailed after she took aim at Boris Johnson.
The Brummie, who was appearing on the BBC One politics programme on Thursday night, has been lauded for "destroying" the Prime Minister.
Johnson was condemned by the teacher of politics over his infamous "letterbox" burqa swipe.
The audience member, appearing on the Halloween instalment of the show, claimed her mum is now too afraid to wear the Islamic garment.
"How is comparing a woman in a burqa to a letterbox showing strong leadership? I am a teacher of politics and I couldn't justify that to my class," she asked.
 
She added: "If I'm teaching kids about tolerance of different faiths and mutual respect - that goes against our British values. Why do we have a Prime Minister in power who goes against our values?
"He has not yet apologised for those comments that he made. It was wrong for him to say. It has led to an increase in race hate crime against women in burqas.
"My mother used to wear a burqa and she stopped wearing it because she feels unsafe."
 
Social media was awash with comments after the scenes aired on BBC One on October 31.
"Wow: Johnson destroyed on BBC Question Time by a hijab-wearing politics teacher!" wrote Newham councillor Mas Patel.
"Welcome to Birmingham #proud ," tweeted Jess Phillips, Labour MP for Yardley.
"She spoke well and I agree with her," a third Twitter user wrote.
They added: "Why do we have a Prime Minister who incites hatred? It’s not good enough to keep making excuses for  Boris Johnson ’s loose tongue."
Women wearing the burqa resemble "letterboxes" and "look like a bank robber", Boris Johnson suggested in August last year.
The MP was branded a "pound-shop Donald Trump fanning the flames of Islamophobia" after his comparison in a pitch to the Tory faithful.
Branding the religious symbol "oppressive", he claimed: "It is absolutely ridiculous that people should choose to go around looking like letter boxes."
Any female student who turned up to school "looking like a bank robber" should be asked to remove their face covering, he then added.
He stopped short of demanding a ban on face coverings in public.
A Muslim Council of Britain spokesperson said: "We need responsibility and action from our politicians, not pandering to the far-right."
Ms Phillips said she was reporting Mr Johnson to the Equality and Human Rights Commission, tweeting: "WTF".
Labour MP David Lammy added: "Labour Muslim women are having their burkas pulled off by thugs in our streets & Boris Johnson's response is to mock them for 'looking like letter boxes'.
 
"Our pound-shop Donald Trump is fanning the flames of Islamophobia to propel his grubby electoral ambitions."
Labour MP Stella Creasy said: "Dear Tory leadership voters - one of the potential candidates thinks you want Bannon not Boris on the ballot paper.
"Make sure you tell him being a Buffoon not being a racist and misogynist more British and more your bag before he goes full Morrissey."
