
# Colin Farrell to play the Penguin in new Batman movie

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:47:00+00:00**

Author: **By Jim Gallagher**

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/showbiz/colin-farrell-to-play-the-penguin-in-new-batman-movie-962264.html)

Colin Farrell could be in the next Batman movie - playing the Penguin.
The Irish star is in talks to star in Matt Reeves’ The Batman with Andy Serkis lined up to play Alfred, Bruce Wayne’s loyal butler.
Robert Pattinson is already on board to play the caped crusader with Zoe Kravitz playing Catwoman. Paul Dano will star as the Riddler.
Film producers have refused to comment but the news comes from showbiz bible Variety.
Pre-production on the Warner Bros.-DC Comics adaptation is expected to start this summer.
No official start date has been set, although sources tell Variety that filming could start in late 2019 or early 2020. The Batman is scheduled to hit cinemas on June 25, 2021.
The Penguin, who was once previously played by Danny DeVito in Batman Returns, marks Farrell’s first comic-book role since playing Bullseye in 2003’s Daredevil.
Serkis joins the ranks of Michael Gough, Michael Caine and Jeremy Irons, who have previously played Alfred.
Serkis and Reeves have a strong relationship, going back to their days on Planet of the Apes, which Reeves directed while Serkis played the key character of Caesar.
Farrell was most recently seen in Disney’s Dumbo. Serkis has been tapped to direct Venom 2 for Sony.

        Doris Day auction to feature late star’s Golden Globe awards
      
