
# Harry Potter Studios is launching a Celebration of Slytherin for summer 2020

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:15:30+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/uk-ireland/harry-potter-studios-launching-celebration-20814043)

It's time for Harry Potter and his friends to step aside - next summer, Slytherins will be ruling the Wizarding World!
That's because the Warner Bros. Studio Tour London - The Making of Harry Potter is launching a brand new season paying tribute to the 'most cunning and ambitious' of Hogwarts' houses.
After all, some of the franchise's most iconic characters were sorted in Slytherin, from Draco Malfoy to Voldemort himself.
The Celebration of Slytherin will run throughout summer 2020, offering all Harry Potter fans a chance to get a behind-the-scenes glimpse into how the costumes were made.
There will also be heaps of Slytherin props which were used throughout filming on display - we're hoping there will be plenty of Dark Magic artifacts - this is Slytherin after all!
Oh, and the Great Hall will be dressed up to celebrate a Slytherin victory of the House Cup with a grand feast and some of the films' original banners decorating the hall.
 
It's basically the perfect opportunity for Slytherins to indulge their wicked side while also getting transported into the magic of the Wizarding World.
Alongside the tribute to Slytherin, the Studios Tour will still offer all of its usual magical sets and props, whether you want to wander through the Forbidden Forest, check out Snape's Potion class, meet magical creatures or even re-create some of the special effects which were used in the films.
 
The Celebration of Slytherin will take place from the 3rd April through to the 6th September, so there's ample opportunity to bag a ticket. You can find out more on the official Studios Tour website.
Want to explore more of the Wizarding World? The good news is that you won't need to venture far, as there are heaps of Harry Potter filming locations throughout the UK you can visit include locations used to recreate Hogwarts itself.
There are even some locations where you can book stays such as the house which served as Godric's Hollow, Harry Potter's childhood home, in the films.
(If you are more of a Gryffindor, you may also want to check out the magical themed apartment which recreates the Common Room - and you can actually book stays in it too).
