
# Top 20 signs you're a 'culture vulture' - including getting annoyed by other tourists

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:02:12+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Wilkes, Astrid Hall, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/top-20-signs-youre-culture-20789562)

Picking eateries which are bustling with locals, learning regional slang and getting annoyed by other tourists are among the signs you are a 'Culture Vulture'.
Learning the etiquette of the region, doing a walking tour of the city with a resident guide and avoiding tourist traps to scout out hidden gems also top the list of the avid globetrotter.
Other signs include trying the local cuisine, checking for festivals taking place during your visit, being able to travel alone, owning multiple guidebooks and wearing clothing of the region you're visiting.
The study of 2,000 Brits also found that 84 per cent would describe themselves as a 'culture vulture', and eight in 10 enjoy visiting locations which are off the beaten track.
Florian Sengstschmid, CEO for the Azerbaijan Tourism Board, said: "It's good to get out of your comfort zone and explore new and lesser known destinations.
"Going off the beaten track, asking locals for tips and just exploring things you wouldn't normally do are great ways to really enjoy a location and make the most of it.
"It's great to see how many Brits are keen to explore new sights and leave no stone unturned when travelling to new and exciting locations."
 
It also emerged seven in 10 adults reckon they are the adventurous type and 87 per cent will try something new when they travel abroad.
Nearly half of those polled will always visit the most famous sights or landmarks when travelling somewhere unfamiliar.
But a fifth prefer to take a trip to the lesser known places on the map when visiting somewhere new, as nearly a third are more likely to enjoy a holiday if they feel no one else has been there.
In fact, three in 10 even said they will visit strange or unheard-of places just to post about them on their social feeds.
Being a culture vulture isn't all that beneficial for these social media nomads though, as a quarter reckon you'll get more likes on a post of familiar locations over the more obscure.
Two fifths of those polled, via OnePoll, prefer natural wonders over man-made marvels when travelling.
And in a bid to see and experience more, eight in 10 will usually try and book a new destination they've never visited when scoping out a holiday.
Around three in 10 also intend to visit a brand-new location during the next vacation they have planned.
It also emerged nearly a quarter reckon they are the bigger culture vulture compared to their partner.
And more than a third admitted their passion for travel can create rifts between themselves and their other half.
Florian Sengstschmid added: "It can be nerve-wrecking going somewhere unfamiliar as our study found language barriers and the unfamiliar can be something that puts people off new experiences.
"However; our research also found more than a third have never visited Azerbaijan but would like to, and it is truly an exciting and unique place to visit."
1. Always trying the local cuisine
2. Avoiding tourist traps and going to hidden gems
3. Using local transport to get around
4. Always going to the museums of the places you visit
5. Choosing restaurants and cafes bustling with locals (not because of reviews)
6. Trying to visit more than one destination during your visit
7. Trying to learn local languages
8. Checking for local festivals/celebrations during your visit
9. Learning local etiquette
10. Asking locals for tips
11. Trying to socialise with the locals if they allow
12. Always carrying the right currency wherever you are
13. Doing a walking tour of the city with a local guide
14. Watching documentaries on the country you are visiting before travelling
15. Knowing about the art of a country
16. Buying local art to return home with
17. Going somewhere nobody else has been
18. Getting irritated when you come across too many British people
19. Knowing which plugs/adapters you need no matter where you go
20. Trying strange foods like insects
