
# EastEnders spoilers tease deadly Sharon and Mel car chase as Phil rocked by bombshell

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/eastenders-spoilers-tease-deadly-sharon-20812502)

EastEnders spoilers have revealed Mel Owen and Sharon Mitchell's feud will boil over, as a bombshell brings Phil Mitchell back to Walford.
Mel, keen to get revenge on the Mitchells, has been blackmailing Sharon ever since she discovered her fling with Keanu Taylor - as well as the fact he is the real father of her unborn child.
Keen to tear the Mitchells apart, despite her pregnant Goddaughter Louise being part of the family, she's using the affair and baby secret to do just that.
Louise is expecting a baby with her fiancé Keanu, unaware he and her stepmother Sharon had a fling.
Next week, spoilers have confirmed Mel takes drastic action before deciding to tell Phil the truth in scenes that are expected to be linked to a deadly car chase.
While the spoilers don't actually mention the chase shown in a recent trailer, recent pictures from filming reportedly show the moment Mel's car crashes after being chased by Sharon.
It's now been revealed what leads to the dramatic stunt, as Mel's horrifying plans are confirmed with Sharon facing a race against time to stop her.
It kicks off at the start of the week when Sharon gets a call from Phil who is furious to have been told by Mel about her selling the club.
Mel had blackmailed Sharon into selling her share of E20, while Phil remained in Portugal. Phil had no idea Sharon only wanted to go out there to buy Mel a villa to keep her quiet about Keanu.
But Mel once again has been stringing her along, and after a series of demands she's now ready to drop the baby bombshell.
Phil tells Sharon he's heading back to Walford to deal with the club, so Sharon begs Keanu to get Louise away from Walford.
But as both Louise and Sharon arrive at their joint surprise party, Mel's plan begins to unfold while the walls close in on her enemy.
Sharon's attempts to get even with her, threatening to expose her own secret after she hid her son Hunter from the police, only fuels her on to get payback.
Mel's final plan becomes clear when she sets off to tell Phil the truth about Sharon and the baby.
It's a race against time as the two women try to get to Phil first, as Mel prepares to finally get her revenge.
But amid claims of a deadly car crash, will Mel get to Phil or will Sharon beat her to it?
A new trailer teased the speedy car scenes as a smug Mel threatened to tear the family apart forever.
Either way viewers know the secret will be exposed one way or another, making way for some dramatic Christmas scenes.
There's also rumours that Keanu will be killed off, after actor Danny Walters confirmed his exit from the BBC soap.

        EastEnders airs Mondays and Fridays at 8pm, and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30pm on BBC One.
      
