
# 61 Great Gifts For Guys That They'll Actually Want

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:58:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/61-great-gifts-for-guys-that-theyll-actually-want-3425886)

Every holiday season, retailers sell a ton of wallets, ties, and sports-themed sweatshirts to people shopping for gifts for guys. They'll always be gift staples, but they're not particularly creative. When it comes to what gifts guys actually want, picking from the gems on this list are far more unique options
The gifts included on this list will appeal to a number of different interests, so no matter what the man you're shopping for is into, you're covered. We've got practical stuff, pop culture-themed stuff, random stuff, personalized stuff, food-themed stuff, grooming stuff, beauty stuff... and that's just the tip of the iceberg. In other words: None of that stereotypical, here-is-a-GrillMaster-for-Christmas-because-you-are-a-man-and-that's-what-men-like-BS. (Although, there is a grill on this list, because some men do like grills, and that's fine too. Everyone can like what they like!) Everyone can express themselves in ways that both embrace and defy gender identity, if that is what they so wish to do.
In other words, it's a good time to be a person looking for a cool gift idea for a guy, because the choices couldn't be more vast or easily accessible than they are right now.
Check out the list below.

        Pick Punch - The Original Guitar Pick Punch$19.95|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Musicians who upcycle things into guitar picks are way hot.

        Retro-Bit RDP 2 in 1 Portable Handheld Console System - for NES and SNES Games $89.60|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Bust out your childhood cartridges, blow on them, and Mario the day away.

        Burst Sonic Toothbrush$69.99|Burst Oral CareSee on Burst Oral Care
      
With a one-month battery life and clinically proven plaque-removing abilities, this toothbrush will make sure your guy never has bad breath again.

        Christopher Bean Coffee Flavored Ground Coffee, Maple Bacon, 12 Ounce$11.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
There's bacon. There's coffee. And now there's bacon coffee. This is not a drill.

        Youth Ask Me About My Trex T Shirt Funny Cool Dinosaur Flip Tee for Kids$13.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
I can't think of a single person who wouldn't love this shirt.

        Crosley CR6019A-RE Executive Portable USB-Enabled 3-Speed Turntable (Red/Cream)$88.94|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
What? You have a record you want to listen to? Well, good thing I have this briefcase record player! Yo DJ, pump this party!

        Can You Imagine Airzooka Toy (Black/Silver)$18.01|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Watch your step, because you're no longer safe... from fun! (See what I did there?)

        His and Hers towel set with Star Wars Hans Solo/Princess Leia "I Love you", "I know "$20|EtsySee on Etsy
      
Just as long as you know...

        The Official A Game of Thrones Coloring Book: An Adult Coloring Book (A Song of Ice and Fire)$11.86|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Because winter is coming, obvi.

        100 Deadly Skills: The SEAL Operative's Guide to Eluding Pursuers, Evading Capture, and Surviving Any Dangerous Situation $17.49|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Now you never have to worry that you won't survive camping or that questionable music festival.

        Pacific Shaving Company Caffeinated Shaving Set 2 Pieces - Caffeinated Shaving Cream, 1 Unit | Caffeinated Aftershave, 1 Unit$15.50|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Coffee isn't just for your cup anymore.

        Cardboard Safari Recycled Cardboard Animal Taxidermy Deer Trophy Head, Bucky Brown Small$19.95|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
It's manly. It's crafty. Nothing has to die. Well, except a tree. But trees don't have eyes that stare back at you no matter where you are in the room.

        Pulled Pork Shredder Claws - Strongest BBQ Meat Forks - Shredding Handling & Carving Food - Claw Handler Set for Pulling Brisket from Grill Smoker or Slow Cooker - BPA Free Barbecue Paws$11.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
These claws make handling hot food and shredding meat like chicken, pork, or ham a breeze. And not only are they heat resistant, they look cool, too!

        Trademark Innovations Anywhere Table Tennis Set with Paddles and Balls$13.51|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Any place with a flat surface is the place where your favorite dude dominates the paddles.

        ToasterBags Non-Stick Bags; Reusable - Set of 2 by Cooks Innovations$4.29|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
I feel like we need to take a minute to talk about this wonder of culinary science. It lets you make crispy grilled cheese in the toaster! In the toaster! It's a great time to be alive.

        The Mug With A Hoop$25|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
He shoots, he scores, he has a nutritious breakfast. He is the MVP of the morning! The crowd goes wild!

        K&H Pet Products Original Bolster Dog & Cat Cot, Chocolate$37.99|ChewySee on Chewy
      
Maybe your dude is more of a dog person. Showing some pet love will get you close to his heart.

        Personalized 5pc Cocktail Shaker Mixer Sets with Wood Storage Box Monogrammed$79.99|EtsySee on Etsy
      
No more drinking fancy cocktails out of plastic McDonald's cups.

        Wood Organizer, Docking Station$19.99|EtsySee on Etsy
      
When your dude has an adult sleepover at your house, he will now have his only handy place to keep his most important stuff.

        TailGator Beverage Glove - The Ultimate Cold Weather Party Glove$19.95|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
These gloves have a waterproof outside, a cozy lining, and best of all: a compartment to comfortable hold cans, bottles, or Solo cups in the cold!

        Knight Rider K.I.T.T. Car Charger$29.99|Oddity MallSee on Oddity Mall
      
No dude of yours will use some regular old USB port. Not when you could be as smooth as the Hoff when you charge your phone.

        Personalized Beer Bottle Opener, Cap Catcher$25.95|EtsySee on Etsy
      
So your dude can protect his teeth, counter tops and other hard objects.

        Parks and Recreation Rec Ron Swanson Bobblehead Bobble Head Figure NBC Pawnee$29.99|EbaySee on Ebay
      
If he's the kind of guy who likes self-assured, dark-haired women and breakfast foods, he needs this more than you can know.

        CozyPhones Sleep Headphones & Travel Bag, Lycra Cool Mesh Lining and Ultra Thin Speakers$15.97|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
These headphones comfortably wrap around your head and are great for working out in, sleeping in, and running with. They Velcro securely to the head and are machine washable, too!

        Personalized Stuffed Animals$79|This is Why I'm BrokeSee on This is Why I'm Broke
      
Seriously, though? A stuffed animal that looks exactly like your person? Get one that looks like you, too, and you can have so many imaginary adventures!

        Shark Laser Pointer$14.99|This is Why I'm BrokeSee on This is Why I'm Broke
      
Profish doesn't have to mean boring. Plus, a little humor (and a little fear) makes for good morale.

        Beard Comb for Men - Wooden Natural Sandalwood Antistatic No Static Dual Action Beard Comb - Fine & Coarse Tooth Perfect for Balms and Oils Includes PU Leather Case - Presented in Cardboard Gift Box$7.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Beard maintenance isn't optional.

        Latitude Longitude keychain - Mens GPS Leather Keychain - Leather key chain$18.99|EtsySee on Etsy
      
The place you got married? The place you met? The coordinates of your first home? The possibilities are endless.

        ION Audio Sound Shine | Dimmable Light Bulb & Wireless Speaker with Bluetooth & App Control (Pair)$99.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
It's a lightbulb. No, it's a speaker. No, it's both! Tiny-house-approved.

        Zombie Bowl$9.60|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
You'll forever be known as the person who made eating Cheerios out of a zombie head a reality.

        Grill Tool Set, Kacebela BBQ Tools, Grill Utensil Set with Storage Case for Outdoor Barbecue Grilling (Stainless Steel,19-Piece)$25.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Serious tool for serious fools.

        Funny Mug 11OZ - Day drinking from a mug to keep things professional$10.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Because there's gluttonous day drinking and there's profesh day drinking and this mug lets you know which one is happening.

        Customized LEGO Minifig Portraits of You$5|Cool MaterialSee on Cool Material
      
Make his childhood dreams a reality.

        Airtight Cold Brew Iced Coffee Maker and Tea Infuser with Spout - 1.0L / 34oz Ovalware RJ3 Brewing Glass Carafe with Removable Stainless Steel Filter$29.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
This glass container with stainless steel mesh container fits perfectly in the fridge and makes cold brew that's 70 percent less acidic than the hot coffee you get at the store — and way cheaper, too!

        Personalized Golf Gift for Him - Custom Golf Ball Marker with Magnetic Hat Clip - Golfer Gift for Him$19.95|EtsySee on Etsy
      
Whenever that special guy in your life hits the lynx, he can be thinking of you.

        Distressed Leather Camera Strap, Personalized Custom Rustic Leather Pro DSLR Camera Holder, Brown Heavy Duty Cow Hide Pro Camera Strap$36|EtsySee on Etsy
      
If your dude is a photographer, this is a useful and sentimental gift.

        Gifts for Him, Fathers day gifts for Dad, gifts for Him, Pocket Knife, Personalized gifts, Boyfriend gift, Gift for Men$22.99|EtsySee on Etsy
      
So many tools. So little space.

        Wallet Ninja- 18 in 1 Credit Card Sized Multitool $10.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
This slim wallet insert has 18 different uses — including a bottle opener, fruit peeler, an eyeglass screwdriver, a box opener, and a cell phone stand. If you know a guy who loves fixing everything he come across, he'll love this.

        BAKBLADE 2.0 +$29.95|Bak BladeSee on Bak Blade
      
Manscaping it hard work when it's your back that needs a trim. Think of this like a back-shaving buddy, or the third arm with a cutting blade on it that you've always dreamed of.

        Bourbon and Scotch Toothpicks$7|Cool MaterialSee on Cool Material
      
Classy dudes shouldn't use non-classy toothpicks. Because digging steak out of your teeth crevasses is a classy act.

        ProActive Sports 6 To Go Beverage Cooler$14.98|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Have beer, will travel.

        Camp Chef Popcorn Popper$18.24|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Because bonfire gourmet is totally a thing now.

        Personalized Tree Trunk Glassware Duo$85|Uncommon GoodsSee on Uncommon Goods
      
This is pretty romantic.

        Portable Pizza Pouch$11.22|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
If the dude in your life is a fan of video games, repairing things, or other hobbies that involve using his hands, the pizza lanyard is a must.

        BottleLoft by Strong Like Bull Magnets, the original Magnetic Bottle Hanger, 2 Strip Pack (holds 6 bottles) $29.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
No more wasted precious fridge space means room for even more beer.

        Fire Sense Notebook Charcoal Grill$24.39|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
This portable grill is easy to fold up and take wherever you have some charcoal and some burgers. It's made of heat-resistant steel and makes a surprising amount of food.

        Wood USA Map$75|Beer Cap MapsSee on Beer Cap Maps
      
If your dude loves travel and beer, this is a more appealing way to save those bottle caps from faraway places than, say, an old fishbowl or empty pizza box.

        Bike Handlebar Turn Signal Lights$49.99|This is Why I'm BrokeSee on This is Why I'm Broke
      
These turn signals are waterproof, easy to install, extra-bright, and fit on any curved or straight handlebar — and a must-have for anyone who bikes at night.

        Laser Razor$189|This is Why I'm BrokeSee on This is Why I'm Broke
      
It's true. We live in the future. You can use a laser beam to get a smooth shave, Mr. Jetson.

        The Original Whisker Dam$20|Whisker DamSee on Whisker Dam
      
It's whiskey, not mustache tea.

        Camera Lens Coffee Mug/Cup With Lid,Photo Coffee Mugs Stainless Steel Travel Lens Mug Thermos TMANGO by TMANGO$9.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Perfect for the photo lover in your life.

        Roll over image to zoom in LA Police Gear LAPG-AC-TCS3 Molle Elite Tactical Xmas Ultra Super Deluxe Patch Stocking-Coyote$14.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Military? Hiker? Bunker builder? Doomsday prepper? He needs this.

        Bear Butt Hammocks - Camping Hammock for Outdoors, Backpacking & Camping Gear - Double hammock, Portable hammock, 2 Person Hammock for Travel, outdoors - Tree & Hiking Gear - Hammock that Holds 700lbs$29.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Literally a nap sack.

        Artestia Double Cooking Stones in One Sizzling Hot Stone Set, Deluxe Tabletop Barbecue/BBQ/Hibachi/Steak Grill (One Deluxe Set with Two Stones)$35.95|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Every day is hibachi with the steak stone.

        Professional Fashion Camera Bag DSLR Laptop Backpack Waterproof Rucksack Travel Large Size Multifunctional backbag Water Resistant Compatible with Sony Canon Nikon Lens Tripod and Accessories(L-Grey)$39.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
This waterproof backpack has space for a laptop, but also has a separate compartment for camera equipment, but is perfect to also fit things like gym shoes, umbrellas, and your wallet.

        BAIGIO Men Vintage Messenger Bag, Nubuck Genuine Leather Cross-Body, Small Casual Shoulder Purse, Unisex Satchel$39.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
There's no more shame in rocking a dude-purse.

        4pc Personalized Personalized Grill Tool Set Laser Engraved Barbecue BBQ Customized Family Grill Holiday Gift Set Monogrammed$49.99|EtsySee on Etsy
      
It's personalized. That makes it better than any other grill set, ever.

        Battleshots Drinking Game$14.99|World MarketSee on World Market
      
Fun. Kind of ridiculous. Inexpensive. Is there a downside?

        Adjustable Cell Phone Stand, licheers Multi-Angle Cell Phone Holder, Cradle, Dock, Stand Compatible with Nintendo Switch, Android Smartphone, Phone 11 Pro Xs Max Xr X 8 7 6 6s Plus for Desk (Black)$6.68|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
This aluminum, adjustable cell phone stand is perfect for catching up on your favorite videos or tv shows while you're doing other things.

        3-in-1 Stainless Steel Wine Chiller Stick with Aerator and Pourer, Rapid Iceless Wine Cooler, Wine Bottle Cooling Rod, JADACA$11.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
Fancy wine technology for fancy dudes.

        Funny Cat Gifts Best Cat Dad Ever Rude Cat Lovers Cat Memes Gift Coffee Mug Tea Cup White$14.99|AmazonSee on Amazon
      
If the person you're buying for loves cats, this is a great gift to buy.
And now you're the most popular giver of gifts on the planet. Congratulations!

        Additional reporting by Eden Lichterman.
      
This article was originally published on Nov 3, 2015
