
# Klopp Reacts To Pep's Mane Comments

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:36:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/jurgen-klopp-reacts-to-pep-guardiola-s-sadio-mane-comments/666745)

After Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola's controversial remarks about African superstar Sadio Mane, Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp responded to what was said ahead of their eagerly-awaited top-of-the-table clash.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see Guardiola and Klopp's managerial rivalry in pictures!
        
      
The Reds host Premier League champions City on Sunday evening in what many are claiming could already be a title decider as a win would take Liverpool nine points clear of their fierce contenders.
In the build-up to that match, Guardiola has caused quite a stir with remarks about Liverpool's in-form forward Mane, whom he accused of sometimes going to ground too easily.
The Spanish tactician's comments came after City's dramatic 2-1 win over Southampton this past Saturday, leading Klopp to question whether his rival was directly addressing Mane, especially as City and Liverpool both played at the same time this past weekend.
The Senegal superstar was booked for attempting to deceive the referee in the Reds' 2-1 victory over Aston Villa, hence Klopp's confusion. The German did, however, still leap to Mane's defence.  

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
"I am not 100% sure if he spoke about Sadio or us in general," he said, according to ITV.
"I didn't hear Sadio's name or know how we could have known so quick about any incident in the game.
"I can say Sadio is not a diver. There was a situation in the Aston Villa game where he got contact and went down, maybe it was not a penalty but there was contact, it's not as if he jumped over a leg and went down."
With Liverpool playing Genk in the UEFA Champions League before this coming weekend, Klopp also insisted he was "absolutely not in the mood today to talk about Man City".

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
Guardiola and Klopp's rivalry began in Germany, when the former was in charge of Bayern Munich and the latter managed Borussia Dortmund.
