
# Xiaomi Watch surfaces in live image ahead of launch - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:13:04+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/03/xiaomi-watch-surfaces-in-live-image-ahead-of-launch/)

Xiaomi Watch surfaces in live image ahead of launch3.4 (68%) 5 votes
Xiaomi’s first smartwatch, the Xiaomi watch is set to go official alongside the Mi CC9 Pro, and the Mi TV 5 series on November 5th in China. The Mi Watch which is set to launch bearing the same look with the Apple Watch has already been shown off in a number of video, and image teasers ahead of its official launch.
Now, yet another image of the Xiaomi Watch has surfaced online, but this time we are treated to a live image of the upcoming watch. Earlier today, Li Xiaoshuang, the general manager of the Xiaomi TV (Air Conditioning) Department was spotted flaunting the Mi Watch in his wrist. The image reveals a rounded square design with four curved surfaces, blackstrap, while the screen is seen with a dark background which again confirms the MIUI for Watch will support a built-in dark mode just like you have it in the latest MIUI for smartphones. You can check out these videos for a better view of the MIUI for Watch in action.
Speaking if the MIUI for Watch, there are speculations the skin will be exclusive to the Xiaomi Watch in China, while the brand will opt for a more traditional WearOS experience with Google support in the West.
Aside from the Blackstrap, a leak from the previous week revealed that Xiaomi will be releasing the Mi Watch in grey, white, and navy blue. These straps are said to be made from fluoro rubber that has anti-allergic properties and is anti-sweat as well. It also comes with a quick-release mechanism.
Speaking of the features, reports say the Xiaomi Watch has a built-in GPS, NFC, Wi-Fi, heart rate reader, eSIM support and a speaker. It’s also thought the Xiaomi Mi Watch will run on the Qualcomm Snapdragon Wear 3100 chip but will drop the Wear OS for the MIUI for Watch as confirmed a few days ago. Other specs including battery life and official pricing have yet to surface, but we hope more information about the device will surface in the coming hours.
