
# 'Bogus and bullying': UK media critic calls for All Blacks haka ban

Published at: **2019-11-01T01:21:52+00:00**

Author: **Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/bogus-and-bullying-uk-media-critic-calls-for-all-blacks-haka-ban)


        
          NZ Herald
        
      
New Zealand rugby’s most famous critic has called for the All Blacks to stop performing the haka before test matches, calling it “bogus” and a “means of rank bullying on and off the field”.
Stephen Jones, a Welsh columnist who writes for The Times, took aim at New Zealand’s pre-match ritual, suggesting it’s performed to satisfy sponsors and television and felt it was time the rugby world moved on.
“The haka has long been partly bonkers,” Jones wrote in his column for The Times. “It is now interminable; it takes up ages with the other team freezing. It is now a means of rank bullying on and off the field, and has become a posing strut rather than a tribute to the M?ori heritage in New Zealand.”
The haka has dominated media discussions through the World Cup, culminating in England’s V-shaped formation response ahead of last week’s semifinal.
Jones highlighted World Rugby’s decision to fine England for crossing the halfway line “as New Zealand made threatening gestures towards them”, while at the same time expressing admiration for the gesture on its website.

        Continue reading below…
      

        Click here to see the video
      
“The idea is clear. The All Blacks want to make a ringing pre-match statement; they want it all to be their way just as teams would occasionally delay their entry onto the field to make the away team sweat a little. The haka is as much part of the pre-match bullying ritual as any inter-coach war of words,” Jones wrote.
“And New Zealand will always find a way to be affronted by the reaction of opponents. Should the opposition simply trot away to near their own line, the All Blacks would chase them to perform it under their noses. The opposition must behave exactly as New Zealand want them to: Advance, retreat, smile, scowl. All wrong, sorry.”
“These days, I grant you that kids and those easily pleased still look forward to the haka almost as eagerly as they do the match itself,” he said. “When they all grow up, they will realise that what the haka conveys these days is utterly bogus.”
World Rugby handed England a four-figure fine after several players – England prop Joe Marler the most prominent – pushed well beyond halfway as they split into a v-shaped formation to oppose the haka prior to their semifinal victory over the All Blacks in Yokohama last week.
“I thought it was awesome, that’s what the haka is about, it’s a challenge,” said All Black Dane Coles. “They walked forward. I know all the boys were pumped for it we were looking around like ‘let’s go’.
