
# Hand specialist says Curry injury especially tricky recovery-wise

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Sheridan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/chrissheridan/2019/11/04/hand-specialist-says-curry-injury-especially-tricky-recovery-wise/)

If Steph Curry were an NFL offensive lineman, he could just have a cast wrapped around his broken hand ... and that would be enough protection.If he were an office worker, he would be able to type fairly quickly after surgery to repair a fractured second metacarpal.
But because he is a basketball player and risks being hit on the hand or bracing himself for another fall, the recovery time may be longer than what the Warriors are currently saying: Three months at a minimum.
“You can’t just put a cast on when you are talking about a basketball player, said Dr. Daniel Osei, an upper extremity surgeon at the Hospital for special Surgery in New York. “I think they’ve got to know that when he’s good, he’s really good.”
Curry had the surgery Nov. 1 at the Cedars-Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute in Los Angeles. The surgery was performed by Dr. Steven Shin. A six-time NBA All-Star and two-time NBA Most Valuable Player, Curry is expected to make a full recovery, and an update on his status will be provided in three (3) months, the Warriors said in a press release.
The next work on the injury may have to come from Curry, who is protected by HIPPA laws regarding his medical privacy. He has not tweeted anything since Sept. 26.
He is the NBA’s highest-paid player this season with a salary of more than $40 million.
Golden State entered Monday nigh’s game last in the Western Conference at 1-5. They were 12-point underdogs in their late game against the Portland Trail Blazers.
Curry entered the season as one of the top wagering favorites to be named Most Valuable Player, but his odds ... and those of the Warriors ... have dropped off the map since the injury occurred.
The earliest Curry might return is Feb. 1 ... but that is somewhat of a guesstimate.
“There are a lot of opportunities for a basketball player to re-injure a hand,” Dr. Osei said. “if someone swipes at you, that may be all it takes to re-injure the hand. And Certainly that is part of the calculus that the Warriors are looking at in trying to ensure that there is no re-injury when he comes back. They have to assess long-term ramifications and are probably not trying to rush him back.
Erring on the side of caution?
“I think that’s what is going on. Especially with what happened with Kevin Durant last season in the finals,” Dr. Osei said.
