
# Naomh Conaill's unbreakable spirit accounts for panicky Castlerahan

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:33:00+00:00**

Author: **From Cahair O&#39;Kane at Kingspan Breffni**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/gaafootball/2019/11/04/news/naomh-conaill-s-unbreakable-spirit-accounts-for-panicky-castlerahan-1756293/)


        AIB Ulster Club SFC quarter-final: Castlerahan (Cavan) 0-11 Naomh Conaill (Donegal) 1-11
      
EVEN when the legs give out on Naomh Conaill, the hearts keep beating.
AJ Gallagher throws himself full-length to block a Sean Brady shot a minute into stoppage time. Moments later, he’s off sprinting full leather out the wing after a break. The calf cramps and he just boots the ball out over the terrace.
The whistle goes as it keeps sailing. Naomh Conaill, four days out from winning their county title after three epic battles with Gaoth Dobhair, have come to Kingspan Breffni and held off Castlerahan.
They celebrated hard on Wednesday night and on Thursday, returning to training on Friday night and trusting that their instincts and ability would see them home.
That’s exactly how it panned out. Naomh Conaill won the game by playing in bursts. Contrary to the week’s preparation, they started brilliantly, etching out a 1-5 to 0-2 lead in the first quarter, which would have been wider had it not been for a superb Jamie Leahy save to deny Kieran Gallagher.
It was built on a platform of outstanding goalscorer Ciaran Thompson and Leo McLoone alongside him, who feasted on a complete breakdown of Castlerahan’s kickouts.
“We had 40 attacks to their 27 but we had a lot of issues from our own kickout, I think we conceded 1-7 from it,” said the beaten side’s boss Donal Keogan afterwards.
“It’s a game that these lads will regret in years to come, they’ll look back and say it got away.”
The ultimately decisive goal came from the outstanding Ciaran Thompson, whose performance was only bettered by that of his elder sibling Anthony, scorer of three points from centre-back.
It was a magnificent goal too, with Thompson threading a lovely ball inside to Charles McGuinness and then steaming off him to finish brilliantly at the near post off the outside of the trusty left boot.
But from they hit the net until half-time, the Glenties lived a charmed live. Castlerahan started to pick off a few kickouts and could have had three goals in the final 12 minutes of the half, but missed them all.
They also kicked wide after wide, with two first half efforts clipping the outside of the post on their way past.
And they had a shout for a penalty when Paul Smith appeared to have been hauled back as he reached for the end of Enda Flanagan’s pass across goal, but referee Ciaran Branagan had no interest.
Still, Donal Keogan’s side did hit the final three scores of the half, the last of them coming from midfielder Cormac Daly, who finished with three on a fine day.
The Glenties had looked jaded in those final 10 minutes of the half but they countered the introduction of Cian Mackey with a good start to the second period again, hitting five of the first six scores to move into a 1-10 to 0-6 lead.
Dermot Molloy was on at full-forward again and by the time he kicked the last of those scores, the life seemed to be draining completely out of the game.
Castlerahan hit two bad wides straight after but scores from Sean Brady and Ronan Flanagan quickly sparked them back into life.
The last 10 minutes were played almost exclusively in Naomh Conaill’s half. Any time they got the ball, they were so tired that they were almost instantly turned over. They were in a standing count.
Castlerahan just hadn’t the composure to land the right blow. They created 13 scoring chances between the 45th minute and the final whistle, but the five point return off it should have been greater.
Ronan Flanagan had the goal chance but having weaved his way into a space to shoot, he looked square and the pass was intercepted. They also dropped two shots into the ‘keeper’s hands when they had the gap down to three.
The hosts lost a man in controversial circumstances heading into stoppage time, with Gavin Daly given a straight red card after colliding with a linesman. It seemed a wholly innocuous incident in which Daly was chasing a ball out over the sideline.
“I thought there was no intent in it, it was definitely a very, very harsh red card. He was going for the ball full tilt, and in the process he connected with the linesman, but there was no intent. It was very disappointing,” said Keogan.
But the Glenties kept motoring too. They’d effectively given up on trying to get out, settling for dying on the ball and seeing how long they could hold it until the next wave would come.
Nothing more could have been expected.
“It was difficult to prepare, we had a great night on Wednesday and an enjoyable day on Thursday,” said Naomh Conaill boss Martin Regan.
“We worked hard over the last few months to win a county championship so we made sure we enjoyed it but Friday we started looking at Castlerahan.
“Look, time was against us, we hadn’t much work done on them and today we focused more on ourselves and what we could bring to the table, but we managed to get over the line.”With Crossmaglen gone, they’ll fancy their chances now against Clontibret. And with Gaoth Dobhair having shed Donegal football of its monkey in the Ulster Club last year, don’t bet against these boys in blue.
MATCH STATSCastlerahan: J Leahy; F Reilly, K McEnroe; O Kiernan; S O’Reilly, S Cooney (0-1), E O’Connell; P Smith, C Daly (0-4); K Cosgrove (0-3, 0-1 free), B Ennis (0-1), P Smith, O O’Connell; R Flanagan (0-1), E FlanaganSubs: C Mackey for O’Reilly (32), G Daly for McEnroe (41), S Brady (0-1) for Ennis (44), F Flanagan for Smith (52)Yellow cards: E Flanagan (9), Pauric Smith (21), E O’Connell (46)Red card: G Daly (60)
Naomh Conaill: S McGrath; U Doherty, AJ Gallagher, K McGettigan; E O’Donnell, A Thompson (0-3), E Waide, M Boyle; C Thompson (1-2, 0-1 45’, 0-1 free), L McLoone; B McDyer (0-1), E Doherty, J McKelvey (0-1); C McGuinness (0-2, 0-1 free), K Gallagher (0-1)Subs: D Molloy (0-1) for McGuinness (36), S Molloy for Boyle (42), N Byrne for O’Donnell (48), J O’Malley for McDyer (51), H Gallagher for Waide (55), M Boyle for Gallagher (60)Yellow cards: J McKelvey (23), AJ Gallagher (53), A Thompson (59)Referee: C Brangan (Down)
Attendance: 2,753
