
# Kenya’s political heavyweights raid Kibra in a last-minute scramble for votes

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:36:16+00:00**

Author: **JOSEPH MURAYA**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/kenyas-political-heavyweights-raid-kibra-in-a-last-minute-scramble-for-votes/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 3 – Kibera constituency will Sunday host the country’s political heavyweights, in the glare of Monday’s campaign deadline, that comes some three days to the by-election.
      

        Deputy President William Ruto is set to lead the ruling Jubilee party in drumming support for their contender, McDonald Mariga, in a crowded race, that has attracted 24 candidates.
      
ADVERTISEMENT
“The bedroom man has sought for reinforcement, yet he claims it is his bedroom, just know things are thick,” the Deputy President said.
Kibra is a perceived stronghold of Odinga and according to legislator Junet Mohammed, his ‘bedroom.”
Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga will be campaigning for Imran Okoth, in a rally dubbed “Kibra Locked” set to be joined by political players from other factions, among them Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua.
At Linda grounds, Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula will pitch camp to woe voters for Eng. Butichi Khamisi.
Others seeking a piece of Kibra include Musalia Mudavadi led party Amani National Congress, whose flag was handed to Eliud Owalo, a once political advisor of Odinga.
Okoth seeks to carry on with his brother’s legacy, who is hailed for investing heavily in the education sector.
“Ruto is a Deputy President, what difference will he do for Kibra, if Mariga is voted in?” Odinga posed when he received Governor Mutua, who has since declared support for Okoth.
As the clock tickles, development politics have been put on the periphery, with a shift to tribal factions.
For example, Mutua met the ODM leader in the company of members of his community – and even addressed them in the Kamba dialect, urging them to vote for Okoth.
DP Ruto has also hosted various tribal delegations at his Karen official home.
Post Views: 204
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
