
# How to copy data to Android phones from iCloud or iPhone without PC

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:57:01+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/06/how-to-copy-data-to-android-phones-from-icloud-or-iphone-without-pc/)

How to copy data to Android phones from iCloud or iPhone without PC3.1 (62.5%) 16 votes
MobileTrans allows you to transfer contacts, messages, photos, videos and more between iOS and Android phones directly with two android apps: iOS to Android App and Android to iOS App. The first is the subject of our article today.
MobileTrans – Copy Data to Android is an easy and secure iOS to Android transfer App. It helps to transfer photos, messages, contacts, etc. from iPhone to Android in 2 easy ways. With this data transfer App, you will be able to transfer all your data to Android devices, including Samsung, Huawei, Oppo, Vivo, Xiaomi, LG, HTC, etc.
With MobileTrans App, you can easily transfer Contacts, Calendar, Reminders, Photos, and Videos from iCloud to Android wirelessly.
Alternatively, you can also transfer data directly from iPhone to Android using an OTG cable.
This content transfer App transfers up to 13 file types from iOS to Android devices. You can transfer any data you want, including Contacts, Calendar, Reminders, Music, Photos, Videos, Bookmarks, Voicemails, Wallpapers, Ringtones, Documents, Voice Memo, Clock, etc. Note that Messages and Call history will be supported soon.
With advanced data analysis technology, it allows transferring data to Android phones much faster than other phone switch Apps.
Launch the App on your Android phone, choose “Import from iCloud” from the dashboard.
Enter your Apple ID and password. Click “Sign In” to access your iCloud backup data.
The app will import all your iCloud backup data. Please choose the data to import.
Launch the app on your Android phone and choose “Import from USB Cable”.
Follow the steps on the screen to connect your Android and iOS devices using an OTG cable.
All of your data from your iOS device will be detected, choose data type to import.
The iOS to Android transfer app free version allows you to transfer photos from iOS to Android. To transfer more file types, and to copy data to Android you can upgrade to the full version. 
Note: A similar Android to iOS data transfer app will be available soon, find out more information on the Official website.
