
# Guide Dogs Christmas advert will break hearts as puppy Henry's dream comes true

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:45:35+00:00**

Author: **Zoe Forsey, https://www.facebook.com/zoeforseymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/guide-dogs-christmas-advert-break-20818453)

Christmas adverts are designed to pull on our heartstrings and get us into the festive spirit, while starting us thinking about spending all our well-earned pennies.
But one of the early contenders for the ad of the season comes from Guide Dogs, released today to promote its Sponsor a Puppy Christmas campaign.
The animated clip tells the story of excited puppy Henry who lives with Father Christmas in the North Pole.
It starts on the night before Christmas, with a very sad looking Henry watching the reindeer and his sleigh heading out to deliver presents.
He dreams of guiding the sleigh but the other reindeer laugh at him and Father Christmas says "not this time".
 
We then skip forward to the following year, when Henry is allowed to get into the sleigh and fly over the city.
Little Henry is dropped off at Guide Dog Puppy School, where the narrator explains that Father Christmas's plan is for him to guide a person, not a sleigh.
We then see him getting his training and he is inspired by watching live action footage of Toffee, a qualified guide dog, enjoying the festive season with his owner Stacey.
 
At the end of the advert, we watch as little Henry transforms into a real puppy as he embarks on his journey to becoming a life-changing guide dog.
Henry is played by Xander, a Labrador cross golden retriever, who is cared for by Guide Dogs volunteer Margaret Tasker, from Rugby, Warwickshire.
Margaret says: “Xander has settled in well, he is very loving and clever.
"He does have a mischievous side though and likes taking shoes, which we are working on.
 
"Xander is a beautiful dark yellow colour, he really stood out in his litter. I’m not surprised he was chosen for the Christmas advert and we hope that one day he will become a wonderful guide dog too.”
The charity hopes the advert will encourage people to sponsor a guide dog this Christmas, helping to finance them through from six weeks to their are fully qualified.
Once they have passed all their tests, every dog is matched to someone with a visual impairment.
Maria Novell, Guide Dogs’ director of fundraising, says: “Henry’s journey is what our Sponsor a Puppy scheme is all about – puppies with a true purpose. We hope this TV advert resonates with the public and encourages them to sponsor a puppy, which will ultimately help us raise vital funds for our life-changing work.
"Animation is a brand-new direction for Guide Dogs, and Christmas is a time where TV advertising is eagerly anticipated by the public. Henry’s story stands out as a reminder that it’s also a time for charitable giving and helping others.”
The advert will premier at 7pm tonight.
