
# Livid student trying to sue university for £200,000 over his grade

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:45:02+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Anna Lewis, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/livid-student-trying-sue-university-17200585)

A university student has spent thousands on an unsuccessful legal bid against the University of South Wales.
The undergraduate has now vowed to take his legal challenge to the highest court in the land as he seeks £200,000 in damages.
Umer Riaz wants compensation after he received a pass grade for his Bachelor of Science chemistry degree in 2016.
The 33-year-old, according to our sister title Wales Online, moved to Cardiff from Islamabad, Pakistan, to study.
But he the claimed he was not given the opportunity to continue his studies to complete an honours degree, instead of receiving the pass.
His claim was struck out of Cardiff County Court last week after being described by the university as having "no prospect of success."
He told Wales Online he would "continue to fight this, even if I have to take it higher, even to the UN." Mr Riaz argued it has affected his career prospects.
The University of South Wales said all processes were followed "fairly and accurately".
Mr Riaz started his degree at the university in 2011, but had to repeat his first year after he failed to obtain the credits needed to continue.
In 2014, after suffering a period of ill health, he said he "suffered a fall" on site, which meant his second year modules were deferred until 2015.
 
As a consequence, he did not have enough credits for an honours degree and had reached the "maximum registration period" for his course.
His unsuccessful claim argued that the decision not to allow him to take the outstanding modules was "unreasonable".
Mr Riaz, who represented himself during court proceedings, said: "I was quite good at my studies and I passed my English courses back home.
"I was the youngest and my family wanted to give me the opportunity for higher study. My parents were illiterate, they didn't go to school."
He said he wanted to continue to do a doctorate in organic chemistry.
He lodged an internal complaint with the university, which was unsuccessful, and took it to the Office Of Independent Adjudicator - where it was dismissed in 2018.
Now, he said he is going to take it to the High Court in London.
Mr Riaz described the legal battle as "very stressful".
 
A spokeswoman for the University of South Wales said: "We take all complaints seriously and we are keen to uphold our rigorous standards.
"All of our processes have been followed fairly and accurately, and this has been reflected by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher Education.
"As there may be further legal action, it is not possible to comment further."
