
# Elevato launches Holler to aid consumer protection 

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:51:24+00:00**

Author: **Abiola Odutola**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/04/elevato-launches-holler-to-aid-consumer-protection/)

Elevato and Associates has launched Holler, a free online customer and consumer review platform, to protect users of products and services.
What it means: Customers or consumers that are not pleased with any goods or services can go to the platform to lodge complaints and representatives of Holler will pick it up and ensure it’s a win-win situation.
Chief Responsibility Officer, Elevato and Associates, Marie-Therese Phido, told Nairametrics that the platform is a place where customers can review the services they receive, know that the review will be available to them as required and can be viewed for reference and channelled to the organisation and appropriate authority for immediate remediation.
She said, “Organisations and service providers can also use the site to see what their customers are saying and use this feedback to provide better service and gain more customers and loyalty. The Holler platform works with organisations and key stakeholders to ensure that the customer and the service provider relationship in Nigeria is optimal and focused on better customer experience for all.”

        [Read Also: Choosing the best business name: Rules and common mistakes]
      
Chief Executive Officer, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), Babatunde Irukera, lauded the efforts of Holler and its founder in protecting consumers as he believed such platform would further make the work of FCCPC easier.
The FCCPC’s boss explained that a regulatory framework had become essential at a time when consumers’ role in the country’s business landscape had become pronounced. According to him, apart from ensuring consumers get value for their spending, a good regulatory framework engenders healthy competition needed for business growth.
Contrary to some critics’ claim that consumer protection stifles business growth, Irukera told Nairametrics at the launch that such statement is a tragic paradox.
He said, “We have got businesses that believe their survivability and sustenance is about the quality of their products and competition in satisfying consumers. How can that same business argue at the regulatory framework, which protects what is considered the sustainability becomes bottlenecks? How do know that an economy is doing well is through consumer spending. Consumer spending is a key index to measure how well an economy is performing.

        “Consumer spending is as much a matter of consumer satisfaction as it is to disposable income. Disposable income is not the only reason people spend. People spend because they are satisfied and they spend again and so any regulatory framework to ensure that that is happening is not a bottleneck, rather it is an enabler. So, there is nothing more fallacious than the perception that consumer protection to the ease of doing business.”
      

        [Read Also: Access Bank successfully completes post-merger integration of its banking platforms]
      
He added that Nigeria is in a time where it must look inward and see how our people are sufficiently protected; their rights are respected; their needs are what businesses provide and that our businesses can also thrive.
“One of the things I found out in my short time in office is that both appetite, audacity, knowledge and competence are absolutely available in the Nigerian businesses, perhaps at the level you can find in the best environment. In any organisation that are succeeding well in the world, you will be amazed at the key roles Nigeria play in pushing their successes,” he told Nairametrics.
