
# MLS chief claims Zlatan Ibrahimovic has signed for AC Milan

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:35:59+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/mls-chief-claims-zlatan-ibrahimovich-20836899)

MLS commissioner Don Graber has claimed Zlatan Ibrahimovic has signed for AC Milan.
Swedish superstar Ibrahimovic departed LA Galaxy at the end of the most recent MLS campaign, ending an 18-month spell in the United States.
The 38-year-old has been linked with a host of clubs as he aims to extend his playing career - and Graber has claimed AC Milan will be his next destination.
Ibrahimovic, who also enjoyed a successful spell under Jose Mourinho at local rivals Inter, scored 42 Serie A goals in just two prolific seasons with AC Milan before departing for Paris Saint-Germain in 2012.
He could now be set for a second spell as the club look to find more goals after a lacklustre start to the season leaving them 11th in the table.
Graber told ESPN: "Zlatan is an interesting character. He keeps me very busy & you need this kind of players like what happened with Beckham few years ago.
"He is 38 years old & has now been signed by Milan, one of the biggest clubs in the world."
Ibrahimovic recently teased a return to Spain, posting an Instagram story claiming: "Hola Espana. I'm coming back".
But it has been claimed the post was a publicity stunt related to him becoming a brand ambassador for betting firm Bethard.
A-League side Perth Glory were also reported to have launched an ambitious bid to sign the superstar on a short term deal.
But a move back to Italy has appeared most likely, with Napoli also said to be keen.
He now appears to be close to a move back to the San Siro, where he has enjoyed arguably the most success in his memorable career.
He seemed to confirm his MLS career was over after LA Galaxy's play-off defeat last monht.
"What happens next year? I don't know," he said. "If I stay it will be good for MLS because the whole world will watch it. If I don't stay, nobody will remember what MLS is."
