
# Liverpool told to pursue N'Golo Kante transfer as Chelsea man is final piece of jigsaw

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:51:26+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-told-pursue-ngolo-kante-20789357)

Liverpool have been urged to pursue Chelsea star N'Golo Kante to add the final piece to the "jigsaw".
The Blues midfielder is widely regarded as one of the best in the world in his position.
He even got on the scoresheet against the Reds earlier this season, finding the top corner from the edge of the box in his sides 2-1 defeat at Stamford Bridge.
Kante cut inside Liverpool's Fabinho to score, and whilst they play in similar roles, Reds legend Jason McAteer believes they'd make a formidable pairing.
“The role of the holding midfielder has developed in modern times and Liverpool boast one of the best in the business in Fabinho," McAteer told the Racing Post .
"He took time to settle at Anfield but was taken out of the team and given time on the training ground and has now slotted back in seamlessly.
"He just gets it, gives it and doesn’t do anything flamboyant, though it took him a while to learn the role.
"And that’s exactly what he’s doing. His awareness of danger is fantastic.
"He and N'Golo Kante at Chelsea are the two best players in the Premier League playing that role - Kante is definitely one of the final pieces in Jurgen Klopp’s jigsaw.”
Liverpool are inundated with options in midfield, with the likes of Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Naby Keita, Adam Lallana and Xherdan Shaqiri all strugging for regular minutes.
The situation with Oxlade-Chamberlain is an intriguing one, given he was a key player prior to suffering a serious knee injury.
He scored in the midweek clash against Arsenal , which followed two goals in the Champions League win away at Genk the week prior.
But Klopp admitted he still wants more from his player before he gives him a more starring role.
"He has scored, nice, both at Genk, a real stunner on Wednesday, a lot of outstanding moments, but other moments he is not involved," Klopp said.
"We always have to try to reach perfection. He still needs rhythm but that is no problem. He is a long-term project."
