
# What lifestyle do you choose for retirement?

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Michael Kennedy**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/business/2019/11/04/news/what-lifestyle-do-you-choose-for-retirement--1753342/)

THE Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association (PLSA) has just come up with a range of scenarios to help people plan their lifestyle in retirement.
They've done this by working out three scenarios as guidelines to how much you will need for your chosen lifestyle (we reported on some similar models by Which? earlier in the year).
The PLSA's work has been described as ‘an attempt to translate savings targets into a description of the quality of life savers will actually enjoy in later life.'
Scenarios are based on a ‘shopping basket' of goods, services and household expenses including bills, food and drink, car/transport, leisure, holidays, clothing and personal, and normal expenses for helping children and family members.
In the most basic scenario, a single person will need £10,200 a year as a minimum income to cover basic needs. PLSA believe this could include a holiday to a UK destination once a year, affordable leisure activities twice a week, and eating out once a month. They say this should be achievable for most people, based on the new full state pension of £8,767.20 a year plus an income from an auto-enrolled workplace pension.
The second is the ‘moderate lifestyle', which comes in at £20,200 for a single person and £29,100 for a couple. This covers our ‘shopping basket' but gives greater financial security and flexibility, and also allows for a two-week holiday in Europe and eating out a few times a month.
The third and top model is the ‘comfortable lifestyle', for a single person with £33,000 a year or a couple with £47,500. These relatively flush individuals can cover all their costs, have regular theatre trips, beauty treatments and a three-week European holiday.
The Money and Pensions Service is already incorporating these new models into its pensions guidance services.
While launching this information the PLSA did have some words of warning for pensions savers. Their words echo many other pensions experts and commentators over the past few years.
First, the PLSA's research see that over half of people (51 per cent) are under the mistaken impression that the government's minimum automatic enrolment contribution of 8 per cent is the recommended amount to save, that will provide a reasonable lifestyle in retirement. The above scenarios show that considerably more will be required.
Furthermore, and this is really regular comment from all quarters in the business: so few people know how much they should be saving, or how much they have saved to date – this new research says only 20 per cent of respondents were confident they were saving enough for retirement.
Providing for ourselves is also not as easy as it used to be; there are several reasons why future retirees will not be as comfortable as current ones. Home ownership is declining among younger savers, and for many, a lifetime of renting a home is a real possibility. Increasing longevity means that retirements (or working lives!) are getting longer.
Then of course there has been the gradual demise of the ‘defined benefit' of final salary pensions, which came with a great guarantee of a generous pension. Today the ‘defined contribution' pension is much more common, where you know what you are paying in, but what you get back depends on the success of the pension company's investments.
The PLSA recommends a minimum saving into your workplace pension of 12 per cent of salary, as opposed to the government's minimum of 8 per cent.
If, based on these models above, you would like to set a target and make a plan to achieve it, there is plenty you can do by acting now to take independent financial advice and nail down a savings schedule relevant to what you are working towards. The closer you get to retirement, the less flexibility you have to change your eventual outcomes.
The current pensions minister Guy Opperman praised the work of the PLSA with these words: “It's great to see what the PLSA has developed, which has the potential to help savers think about the future and plan for the retirement they want.”
:: Michael Kennedy and Shaun Doherty are independent financial advisers and pensions specialists, and can be contacted on 02871886005. Further information on Facebook at “Kennedy Independent Financial Advice Ltd” or at www.mkennedyfinancial.com
