
# Why You Should Explore Santorini And Its Wines

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Joseph V Micallef**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joemicallef/2019/11/03/why-you-should-explore-santorini-and-its-wines/)

Santorini, Thera to the Greeks, is an island in the south Aegean Sea, approximately 120 miles southeast of Greece, and about 15-miles north of Crete. It is the southernmost member of the Cyclades group of islands. The main island is 28-square miles, and is the largest of a circular group of islands, which are the remnants of a large volcanic caldera. The island sits atop the juncture of the African and Eurasian tectonic plates and is astride the resulting south Aegean volcanic arc.
The current circular configuration of islands was created some 3,500 years ago. The actual date of the eruption is disputed, but it is believed to have occurred sometime between 1645 BC and 1500 BC. The eruption was among the largest in recorded history. The resulting ash deposits and tsunami may have contributed to the collapse of the Minoan civilization on the island of Crete.
The eruption is also intertwined with the legend of Atlantis—a mythical Mediterranean island—among several proposed locations, which hosted an advanced civilization in ancient times and that disappeared beneath the Mediterranean. The volcano is still considered active and last erupted in 1950. Earthquakes are common. The multi-colored bands of ash that comprise the ancient volcanic cone bear witness to the frequent eruptions.
Santorini has become a popular tourist destination. It is a frequent stop of cruise ships plying the eastern Mediterranean. The island’s population numbers around 15,000 inhabitants. At the peak of the summer tourist season, tourists can outnumber locals by four to one. Several years ago, in response to burgeoning cruise ship traffic, the local government capped cruise ship visits to a maximum of four a day. Even then, from May to October, the island can be very crowded and popular tourist destinations overwhelmed by the crush of visitors.
The island boasts spectacular scenery. Whitewashed, cubiform houses in the two principal towns of Fira and Oia cling to the sheer cliff sides that once made up the ancient volcanic caldera. The blue painted domes of the local churches are distributed throughout the towns and have become the symbol of Santorini.
Tourism is the main industry on Santorini followed by agriculture. The island’s wine industry dates back at least 3,500 years, and is probably even older. There are more than 14,000 acres of vineyards on the tiny island.
Santorini produces a range of wines from approximately 40 indigenous Greek grape varieties, principally Assyrtiko (80% of the island’s vineyards), Aidani, Mandilaria, Mavrotragano, Katsano and Gaidouria. It is most famous, however, for its sweet, rich wine, Vinsanto. The wine, which has been produced since classical antiquity, was highly prized in ancient and medieval times and was exported all over Europe. Its high alcohol and sugar levels allowed it to be aged for a century or more and helped protect it from oxidation on long sea voyages.
Viticulture on Santorini is described as “heroic”. In the words of a local winemaker
Yields are low and grapes must be picked manually. The sandy, volcanic soil prevents the spread of phylloxera, so vines are planted on their own roots. The vineyards aren’t irrigated, except when they are first getting established. Most rain falls in the winter, but the pumice rich soil helps retain water over the summer. The pronounced diurnal variation in temperature preserves acidity. Most wines are fermented using naturally occurring wild yeasts.
There are no water sources on the island. The island’s water supply is based on captured rainwater, a scanty 10 inches a year, and a local desalination plant. Water, among the most precious commodities on Santorini, costs around 30 cents a gallon for homeowners to refill their water tanks. On the positive side, the island’s desert like climate means that it is sunny for around 350 days a year. It also reduces disease pressure on the vines.
Grape vines are maintained close to the ground, often planted in shallow depressions, so they can absorb the frequent summer dew that covers the island in the morning. The low profile also protects the vines from the island’s incessant winds. The vines rarely exceed 18 inches in height. In a practice unique to the island, they are trained to form a circular wreath. Each complete circle represents 10 years of growth. Some of the island’s vines are more than 200 years old, and have been shaped into a complex wreath like shape.
Santorini boasts hundreds of vineyards. Virtually every family on the island has a small vineyard plot where they grow grapes and make their own wines. The larger commercial vineyards are mostly family owned, often for multiple generations. Here are brief descriptions of three of the better-known wineries, all of which can be visited in a single day and which offer an excellent introduction to the wines of Santorini.
Estate Argyros was established in 1903. Based in the village of Episkopi, its vines are an average of 80 years old, and its oldest bloc dates back more than 200 years. They are among the oldest vines on the island. The winery’s specialty is white wines made from Assyrtiko. The variety, the most common grape on Santorini, features flavors of citrus fruit, lemon grass, and a characteristic wet stone minerality with a noticeable tannic backbone. The wines are long lived, with better expressions capable of being aged for 10 to 15 years.
Try the Estate Argyros Assyrtiko 2018. The wine features a distinct wet stone minerality, accompanied by green fruit notes of apple and pear, along with flavors of lemon and some dried floral and herbal elements. The finish is medium length, featuring citrus and green fruit notes and a hint of bitterness on the end.
The Cuvee Monsingori Assyrtiko 2017 is fashioned from vines that are more than 100 years old. It offers up a purity and concentration of flavor typical of ancient vines. On the nose, the wine offers Assyrtiko’s characteristic wet stone aroma, but this time with a distinctive gun flint minerality. On the palate, there is a slightly bitter note, along with an element of salinity that is typical of Santorini’s wines. There is a pronounced, but well integrated tannic backbone to the wine, along with flavors of green fruit and citrus notes and a brisk, refreshing acidity. This is an outstanding wine.
Atlantis Rosé is a blend of Assyrtiko and Mandilaria. The two grape varieties are vinified together producing a rosé wine that offers zesty acidity, citrus notes and minerality from the Assyrtiko and red fruit flavors of strawberry and cherry from the Mandilaria. The finish is medium length, with lingering lemon and strawberry notes.
Vinsanto is Santorini’s most famous wine. It’s made from either white or red grapes, or a combination of the two, and is capable of being aged in cask for up to 100 years. The typical Santorini wine cask is made from either French or Russian oak and can hold approximately 1,500 liters.
Argyros’ Vinsanto is a combination of 80% Assyrtiko, 10% Aidani and 10% Athiri. After picking, the grapes are dried outside on straw mats for two weeks before being vinified. The wine is a rich, dark amber color, offering up flavors of sweet dried fruit like apricot, peach fig raisin and date, along with candied citrus zest, milk chocolate and a lingering herbal note in the background. The acidity is well integrated and offsets nicely the approximately 170 grams of sugar per liter in the wine. The alcohol is 13%. Vinsanto wines usually have alcohol levels of between 9% and 14%, typical of intensely sweet wines. Pour it over a slice of feta cheese, ice cream or baklava. Perfect with foie gras.
The winery offers Vinsanto that has been aged for 4, 12 and 20 years.
The Venetsanos winery, also family owned, is carved into a cliffside overlooking the Santorini caldera in the village of Megalochori. The name means “The Venetian” and may be a reference to the winery’s original owner.
Nykteri is a wine made from 100% Assyrtiko grapes that are picked at night and barrel fermented in French oak casks. The cooler temperatures help preserve aroma. This is another long-lived white wine capable of being aged for 10 to 15 years. It offers up Assyrtiko’s characteristic wet stone and gun flint minerality, along with citrus and green fruit notes.
Anagallis is a semi dry rosé made from Mandilaria, Aidani and Assyrtiko. The wine retains about 10 grams of sugar per liter, giving it a hint of sweetness that is nicely balanced by the robust acidity. Venetsanos bottles a Vinsanto from Assyrtiko, Aidani and Athiri that spends 17 years in oak. It takes roughly 22 lbs of grapes to make one liter of Vinsanto. The alcohol is 9.5% and the wine retains 180 grams of residual sugar per liter.
Gavalas is another winery in the village of Megalochori. It’s famous for being one of the few wineries on the island that still stomps their grapes by foot. The winery’s Assyrtiko features the gun flint minerality typical of the variety, with the characteristic citrus and green fruit flavors, along with some tropical fruit notes.
Mavrotragano is a red wine produced from the like named grape. This is a rich, dense, full-bodied, spicy wine that features ripe, well-integrated tannins and a smooth, velvety finish with a distinct minerality. Despite its sundrenched landscape, only about 15% of the island’s wines are red. The wine is aged for a year in Russian oak. It features an intense deep red color and a crisp acidity offering up intense aromas of blackberry and raspberry notes, along with hints of tobacco and some dried herbal notes.
The Vinsanto bottled by Gavalas is offered as a 7 YO. It is a blend of 85% Assyrtiko, 5% Athiri, 10% Aidani. The grapes are not pressed but dried for two weeks then trod by foot. Fermentation can last for more than four months and utilizes wild yeasts. Aging is in a combination of French and Russian oak. Gavalas’ offers Vinsanto in a number of ages, including a rare 45 YO.
The wine, intensely sweet, offers notes of candied citrus, dried figs, raisins, stone fruits and prunes, along with nuts.
Many of the wines of Santorini are available in the US. See wine.com to order online or winesearcher.com for a retailer near you. These wines tend to be pricey compared to similar quality wines, a reflection of the high costs of producing wine on the island. Still, they are definitely worth a taste and, if you’re in the neighborhood, a visit to the island and its wineries.
Bon Voyage
