
# Servant joins work, pockets items worth Rs 38L and leaves the city

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/servant-joins-work-pockets-items-worth-rs-38l-and-leaves-the-city/articleshow/71871071.cms)

This nifty thief surely wasted no time in getting right down to his business. Within hours of joining work as a domestic help at the house of a cloth merchant in Basavanagudi, a 21-year-old man from Rajasthan, managed to walk out with gold and other valuables worth Rs 38.32 lakh even as the family was returning from outside. Only five hours had passed on the first day of job, when the cloth merchant Mehak V Piragal and his family members went to their shops in Chikpet for Deepavali celebrations. Kushal Singh Rajput alias Bhugiya quickly put his scheme into motion. Taking gold ornaments from the house, he left to Rajasthan in a train. The police, too swung into action, and put paid to his plans by arresting him from Rajasthan. All the valuables have been recovered intact too. Bhugiya is originally from Ajmer and was referred to the house of Piragal on Govindappa Road in Basavanagudi by a worker at Piragal’s relative’s home. “The accused came to the victim’s house on Sunday around 7.30 am. As the family were busy with the Deepavali celebrations. They asked him to clean the house. The family then went to their shop in Chikpet to conduct a pooja. The accused had access to the keys so he could easily steal gold and other valuables and he escaped by 12.30 pm. As the family members were returning home, they saw him going out of the house. But none suspected him. When they started the celebrations at home and went to bring the ornaments for the pooja, they realised about the theft and filed the complaint,” said an officer. Police tracked him down through his mobile tower location. He was arrested by the Basavanagudi police on Tuesday was brought back to the city on Thursday
