
# Dem Rep: Backing Impeachment ‘Absolutely' a 'Disaster' for Democrats

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:30:31+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Boyle**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/05/democrat-rep-cindy-axne-confirms-backing-impeachment-inquiry-absolutely-a-political-disaster-for-democrats/)

Asked by the host during an interview on Iowa Public Radio if backing an impeachment inquiry into President Trump is a “political disaster for the Democrats,” she replied that “absolutely” it is.
Host Ben Kieffer on Iowa Public Radio asked Axne:
In response, Axne confirmed that impeachment is “absolutely” a disaster for the Democrats.
“Well, absolutely,” Axne said. “Historically it’s not very beneficial from a political perspective to conduct presidential impeachment.”
Axne represents Iowa’s third congressional district, one of the 31 districts in which President Trump defeated Democrat Hillary Rodham Clinton where Democrats currently sit in the House seats. She won her seat in the 2018 midterm elections, but as a freshman from a very pro-Trump distric, she is particularly vulnerable heading into the 2020 congressional elections.
The GOP only needs to retake a net 19 seats to retake the House majority in 2020, making this one of the districts everyone is watching heading into next year—making Axne’s admission that it is “absolutely” a “disaster” for her and other Democrats to back impeachment all the more important.
She continued by arguing that despite the political concerns over a backlash by voters in response to Democrats pursuing an impeachment agenda, she thinks it is “what’s right for this country” to try to remove Trump from office:
She also admitted that impeachment will have at least “some impact” on her upcoming effort to get re-elected in 2020.
“Could it affect people like me in purple districts?” Axne said. “I’m one of the eight most crucial races in the nation. I think obviously there will be some impact.”
Axne also made the case that despite pursuing an impeachment agenda—she, like all but two Democrats, voted for the impeachment inquiry last week, siding with radicals like Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY), Ilhan Omar (D-MN), and Rashida Tlaib (D-MI) over the people of her district who support Trump—she can still do legislation on other matters. Axne said:
The problem with this argument is that Democrats have chosen as a party to abandon the campaign promises from 2018 that swept them into the majority, winning districts like the one Axne won on issues like health care, immigration, the economy, and helping American workers and families. But Democrats have not passed a single big-picture piece of legislation designed to become law on any of these matters, and as they pursue their impeachment agenda, they are giving up hope of passing anything on these fronts at all before the next election.
By voting for the impeachment inquiry as she did, Axne sided with these radical, as did all but two of her Democrat colleagues—freshman Rep. Jeff Van Drew (D-NJ) and longtime Rep. Collin Peterson (D-MN), the chairman of the House Agriculture Committee—by voting to formally authorize what is now a plainly partisan impeachment inquiry. All Republicans and those two Democrats joined in bipartisan opposition to the Democrats’ partisan impeachment inquiry vote.
Marc Short, Vice President Mike Pence’s chief of staff, told Breitbart News this weekend on Breitbart News Sunday that Democrats have abandoned legislative solutions in order to pursue their impeachment agenda—and that it could cost them dearly at the polls in November 2020.
“I think that net 19 is a tough swing, but I think the Democrats are doing everything in their power to make it possible,” Short said. “I think that by pursuing endless investigations and impeachment that is going nowhere in the Senate, you’re essentially telling the voters that you wanted to do politics and you didn’t want to do legislation that is important.”
