
# Google Maps Update: Important landmarks now more visible -

Published at: **2019-11-04T03:16:09+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/03/google-maps-update-important-landmarks-now-more-visible/)

Rate this post
For those who travel around the world frequently, Google Maps must have come handy at one point or the other. While this feature is not entirely accurate in all cases, it has proven to be a very useful tool for many travelers. When visiting a new city, one of the most important things to note is the location of landmark features. This is because most of the descriptions you will get will be relative to these features. Google Maps provide landmark information and point of interest with blue, orange, and green icons. However, in the new Google Maps Update, major cities landmark now have larger icons which means that they can be seen at-a-glance.
In the recent Google Maps update, you will realize that major cities like London, Paris, Rome, Barcelona, New York now have large landmark icons denoting important locations. However, it appears that the update is still been rolled out for other major cities. The likes of Washington DC didn’t have large landmarks for the White House. Obviously, the White House is perhaps the most important location in DC. Other major cities like Sydney didn’t have large landmarks for important sites like the Sydney Opera House. As of now, the large landmark icons are available on Maps 10.28.2 (APK Mirror).
Download from Play Store HERE

        Source
      
