
# Aberdeen 3 Kilmarnock 0 as Sam Cosgrove helps shoot down injury-hit Killie - 3 talking points

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:58:21+00:00**

Author: **Scott Burns, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/scott-burns/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-match-reports/aberdeen-3-kilmarnock-0-sam-20796408)

Aberdeen finally found some consistency to claim their first back-to-back Premiership wins of the season.
A first Dons goal for Curtis Main and strikes from Sam Cosgrove and Scott McKenna gave them the points in this relatively straight forward win against injury-hit Kilmarnock .
It was also the first time that Derek McInnes ’ side had won consecutive league games and it allows them to keep the pressure up on third-placed Motherwell, who also beat Livingston.
Sir Alex Ferguson opened the Dons’ new Cormack Park training earlier this week and that also gave McInnes’ side a lift coming into this one.
The Aberdeen manager has come under-fire from sections of his own support after their Celtic no-show but since then they have responded with wins against Hamilton and Kilmarnock.
They went ahead through Main’s diving header. Sam Cosgrove netted from a corner and Scott McKenna claimed his first of the season when he finished off a good move with a back-post volley.
As for Killie, they started the week in third spot but consecutive defeats at Motherwell and Aberdeen have seen them nose-dive.
Angelo Alessio , however, can point to the lack of defensive options he had at his disposal at Pittodrie.

        Main gets off the mark
      
The striker will have been relieved to have finally opened his account in an Aberdeen shirt.  It has taken the summer signing the best part of four months to do it, although in fairness he has only made four starts in that time.  The Englishman, who was sent off on his last Pittodrie appearance, stuck away a brave, diving header to give the Dons an 11th minute lead. There is no doubt it had been a long-time coming as his last goal had been back in February and that was in Motherwell colours.

        Cosgrove fears for Dons
      

         
      
Aberdeen’s top scorer got in on the act to net his 16th goal of the season.  He terrorised Kilmarnock’s back line and on another day could have had a penalty and another couple of goals.  He has continually been Aberdeen’s go-to-man but there was concern when he had to limp off in the 66th minute.  He sat on the bench icing the thigh that had caused him to come off prematurely.

        Defensive worries for Alessio
      
Kilmarnock’s success of recent seasons, from Steve Clarke’s time, has been down to their defensive base.  That area, however, had caused manager Angelo Alessio his biggest headache in the Granite City.  He went in without a recognised central defender due to injuries to Stuart Findlay, Dario Del Fabro and Connor Johnson, while Alex Bruce was suspended after he failed to get his midweek red card overturned.  That meant captain Gary Dicker had to drop back while young Iain Wilson came in alongside him.  The pair did their best but they never looked like being able to match Aberdeen’s speed, power and guile at the top end.
