
# US Grand Prix LIVE: Latest Lewis Hamilton updates as Brit closes in on sixth world championship

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:02:47+00:00**

Author: **Tom Kershaw**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/live/us-grand-prix-live-stream-race-updates-lewis-hamilton-world-title-formula-one-a9183546.html)

Follow all the action live from the Circuit of the Americas as Lewis Hamilton looks to clinch a sixth successive world title at the US Grand Prix.
The Brit starts in fifth after a disappointing qualifying session. However, an eighth-place finish or better will guarantee him a third successive championship. 
Valtteri Bottas starts on pole position and knows if he fails to finish on the podium his teammate will be ensured of the F1 crown. Sebastian Vettel stars second, while Max Verstappen and Charles Leclerc start third and fourth respectively. Follow all the action below:
Show latest update2019-11-03T21:02:46.983Z
 
2019-11-03T21:01:04.720ZMy Dad told me when I was six or seven years old never to give up, it's the family motto. I don't know about Championships, but as an athlete I feel fresh as can be right now. I'm ready for the next race, we'll keep pushing.
2019-11-03T20:56:35.250ZOverwhelming. It was such a tough race today, Valtteri did a fantastic job," Hamilton says after hugging his father. "I didn't think the one stop was going to be possible... 
2019-11-03T20:56:10.480ZIt's a nice win, feels good," Bottas said. "It was the only thing I could focus on this week, obviously it wasn't enough and Lewis has the title... Big congrats to him. He deserves it, he had a strong season.
Advertisement2019-11-03T20:52:29.210Z"What an incredible weekend, I can't believe it, thank you so much guys," Hamilton says, as he performs a sequence of celebratory doughnuts in front of the grandstand.
2019-11-03T20:50:45.256ZVerstappen did his best to force the overtake but locked up just as he was looking to apply a last burst of pressure on the final lap.  Bottas produced an excellent drive to win, but it's Hamilton's day as he pulls to within just one of Michael Schumacher's all-time record. "Get in there Lewis, what a drive mate, that is it," the team say over the radio.

          2019-11-03T20:48:09.276Z
          Valtteri Bottas wins! Lewis Hamilton is the world champion!
        
2019-11-03T20:45:18.083ZLap 55/56 Bottas has pulled far clear now and he's certain to win for the first time in Austin. Hamilton may just have enough left in the tank to hold off Verstappen to seal a one-two Mercedes finish!
Advertisement2019-11-03T20:41:23.153ZLap 52/56 And there it is! Bottas overtakes! Hamilton simply couldn't keep the pressure off and Bottas pulled clear comfortably in the DRS Zone. Bottas is on course for a first victory in Austin. Hamilton now has Verstappen to contend with.
2019-11-03T20:40:21.453ZLap 51/56 Hamilton runs Bottas off the track! Hamilton makes a minute error on the worn tires and Bottas looks to pass in the DRS zone, but as Bottas goes wide to overtake his line is blocked. What a risky defence from the champion who's determined hold on. There's going to be a few more of those duels though before this race is done though.

          2019-11-03T20:38:06.470Z
        
2019-11-03T20:37:09.446ZLaps 50/56 It's going to be a grandstand finish! The lead is down to less than a second. Just behind, Verstappen is within reach of making a late charge if the two Mercedes start to jostle.
Advertisement2019-11-03T20:35:09.873ZLaps 49/56 It's been 24 laps on these tyres for Hamilton and we could be set up for a feisty finish between the Mercedes drivers. The lead is at just 1.4s and Bottas is into the DRS zone.  Meanwhile, Leclerc has set the fastest lap.
2019-11-03T20:32:25.863ZLap 46/56 So, 10 laps to go for Hamilton. Bottas is shaving away at his lead again but it still looks to be in vain. Verstappen remains in third, while Leclerc is back in fourth.  This is how it stands: 1 Hamilton, 2 Bottas, 3 Verstappen, 4 Leclerc, 5 Ricciardo, 6 Albon, 7 Sainz, 8 Gasly, 9 Perez, 10 Norris.
2019-11-03T20:29:55.306ZLap 44/56 Hamilton's going to stay out there and if he can sustain his tyres he should just be able to hold off the challenge of his teammate and clinch the title with a first-place finish. Bottas has, however, just set a new fastest lap of the race.
2019-11-03T20:24:36.720ZLap 42/56 There's more angst from Mercedes, who admit they aren't sure if Hamilton can get around on these tyres and suggest he comes in to pit and fights for second.
Advertisement2019-11-03T20:23:41.400ZLap 40/56 Further back there's movement as Kyvat is forced onto the gravel by Hulkenberg who moves into 12.  Up ahead, Bottas negotiates a few stragglers to get a clean run at Hamilton. The lead is only 4.6s now.
2019-11-03T20:19:53.086ZLap 39/56 Bottas is gnawing away at Hamilton's lead furiously after that switch of tyres. He's taken two seconds off over the course of two laps. Verstappen is told he needs to keep taking 0.8s out of Hamilton's lead to have a chance of breaking up the Mercedes one-two and winning this race. 
2019-11-03T20:17:00.970ZLap 37/56 Bottas pits and Hamilton leads. However, there are peeps down the radio about his tyres so Mercedes will face a big decision as to whether they bring him in to pit again during this race.  So, as it stands, Hamilton leads by 7.5s, with Verstappen a further 6s back.
2019-11-03T20:15:41.606ZLap 35/57 Verstappen pits after wearing out his tyres over the past couple of laps and he switches to the medium softs.  That means Bottas leads from Hamilton in a Mercedes one-two that's symbolic of this championship.
Advertisement1 2 3Next

          Please allow a moment for the blog to load.
        
The race begins at 7:10pm (BST) on Sunday evening.
The race will be aired live on Sky Sports F1, with their coverage beginning at 5.30pm. Sky Sports subscribers can watch via the Sky Go app, or on the website.
Highlights can be seen on Channel 4 at 11pm, or on demand via All 4.
Valtteri Bottas took a narrow pole, beating Sebastian Vettel by just 0.012 seconds to push the Ferrari driver into second.
Max Verstappen will start third, with Lewis Hamilton recording the fifth-best time as he seeks to seal another Drivers’ Championship.
Hamilton is poised to seal a third consecutive title this weekend, with Bottas only able to continue the championship race by winning in Austin.
Should Bottas win and secure the bonus point for the fast lap, Hamilton would have to finish eighth or better to secure the Drivers’ Championship. If Hamilton records the fastest lap, ninth place would suffice for the British driver.
“I don’t look at this race as a particularly important,” the 34-year-old said. “It’s as important as any other race to me. It is not a stand-out, individual, important race for me. There are still two more after that.
“I will approach it exactly the same. I’m not looking to perform miracles. Things happen for a reason and today is a lesson learnt. Try to see if I can turn a negative into a positive tomorrow.”
“It has been the same pressure every year. [The circumstances] are always different. We had Brazil [2008] last corner, last race in Abu Dhabi with double points for a win [in 2014], multiple races left [in 2015, ‘17, and ‘18]. It doesn’t make a massive difference. The pressure feels similar and I am not someone who pressure gets to.”
“He is leading the championship with quite a big margin and he doesn’t need many points to do it. I’m sure he would like to win the championship in a good way but I will try my best to delay that and focus on my race rather than anyone else’s.”
