
# Nine things you need to know about returning riot grrrl game-changers Bikini Kill

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/blogs/nme-blogs/9-things-riot-grrrl-legends-bikini-kill-comeback-2431535?utm_source=hootsuite&utm_medium=&utm_term=&utm_content=&utm_campaign=)


        Kathleen Hanna's group broke ground for women in music
      
It’s 22 years since Bikini Kill last performed together, and boy, are we glad they’re coming back.
Don’t expect the reunion shows to be nostalgia trips. Things might be better than they were when the group kickstarted the riot grrrl revolution in the ’90s but, when you’ve still got politicians trying to rip away reproductive rights, women still being paid less than men for doing the same jobs, and rape and sexual assault victims still battling to be believed, you wonder by how much. The truth is 2019 is the perfect time for a riot grrrl resurgence. More than ever, we need bands who will stand against the establishment, who will shout and scream and make their presence felt and who will fight to force change for the better.
Here are nine things you need to know about Bikini Kill to get you ready for the second coming.
Bikini Kill weren’t the first female-identifying punk band by any means, not when the ‘70s had X-Ray Spex, The Slits, The Runaways, the Debbie Harry-fronted Blondie and more. But by being so vocal about their political views, the need for women to reclaim their space at shows and in society, and sparking a real revolution in punk and beyond, they opened doors for other women to do the same. They fought the battle to be accepted as a band on their own terms, making it easier for other women and people outside of the white male norm to come in and do what they wanted.
Bikini Kill’s reunion announcement might have been heralded by many as one of the first great moments of 2019, but not everyone was a fan back in their original stint. In fact, some people really hated them. They’ve described their shows back then as “war”, with men often going just to shout slurs and insults at them, or to try and enact violence upon them. Skinheads would bring chains to their shows and throw them at the band, and they’d receive death threats in their home mailbox, with the authors warning them they were going to “stab [them] in the heart.” 
