
# Here's what Snapdragon Wear 3100 SoC can offer Xiaomi Watch - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:16:39+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/03/heres-what-snapdragon-wear-3100-soc-can-offer-xiaomi-watch/)

Here’s what Snapdragon Wear 3100 SoC can offer Xiaomi Watch4 (80%) 9 votes
Xiaomi will hold a press conference on November 5 where it will release its flagship wearable – Xiaomi Watch. Not long ago, Xiaomi announced that this watch will come with Qualcomm’s flagship processor for smartwatches – Snapdragon Wear 3100. According to Xiaomi, this is the first watch with a Qualcomm smartwatch flagship processor. Now, Qualcomm has detailed what this chip has to offer
In order to have a smoother experience, the Snapdragon Wear 3100 platform uses a quad-core Cortex A7 architecture. This chip clocks 1.2GHz and the powerful performance brings a smoother interactive response to smartwatches. Whether it’s switching between the various functions of the watch, or running a third-party application, it can run smoothly and start the corresponding function.
Furthermore, the Snapdragon Wear 3100 platform introduces a new DSP framework to support next-generation sensor processing. The dual-display architecture can also integrate two different screen displays to meet the needs of various scenarios. With this definition from Qualcomm, we expect the Xiaomi Watch to run internal and third-party apps smoothly.
One of the key features of the Snapdragon Wear 3100 platform is the addition of the new coprocessor Qualcomm® QCC1110. These chips with high-efficiency DSPs and ultra-low-power performance work together to deliver longer-lasting endurance.
In addition, the Qualcomm QCC1110 is optimized for ultra-low-power operation. This also makes it a powerful support for the main processor. Furthermore, it integrates a deep learning engine to judge and process the current state. For example, when the power of the watch is too low, those functions that consume more power will automatically turn off. In this state, only time and part of the sensor operation will be active.
The Snapdragon Wear 3100 platform supports “enhanced mode”, “professional sports experience” and “traditional watch mode”. These modes determine the performance and power consumption status of the watch. It also supports a new personalized mode to suit users’ needs.
“Enhanced Mode” is designed for a variety of themes and functions to meet the consumer’s demand for the stylish appearance of smartwatches. The “Professional Sports Experience” mode can continuously activate sensors such as GPS and heart rate detection to keep track of the progress of sporting activities. The “traditional watch mode” is a simple mode that consumes little or no power.

        Via
      
