
# Ahead Of 2020, Democratic Billionaire Donors Bet On A Young Super PAC To Win State Races

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Deniz Çam**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/denizcam/2019/11/04/ahead-of-2020-democratic-donors-bet-on-a-young-super-pac-to-win-state-races/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_term=Valerie/)

Most of the national attention may be on the 2020 presidential race, but voters across the country will go to the polls on Tuesday to pick representatives including governors and state legislators and vote on statewide ballot measures.Among the groups with a laser focus on Tuesday’s elections: Forward Majority, an up-and-coming super PAC that is trying to win seats in state legislatures for Democratic candidates. This off-year election can have a decade-long impact, says Vicky Hausman, a cofounder of Forward Majority. 
In 2017—the year it was founded—Forward Majority says it helped flip 15 seats in the Virginia state legislature, which it claims is the biggest swing in that state’s legislature in over 100 years. Doubling down on its strategy, Forward Majority has been pitching its cause to venture capitalists, hedge fund managers and Wall Street as one of the best political investments they can make in the age of Trump. 
So far, it’s working. Since 2017, Forward Majority has raised over $10 million, according to federal filings and data from the Center for Responsive Politics. The organization, which has 18 employees and is based in New York City, has channeled money to over 130 races in seven states and helped Democratic candidates flip 58 seats from Republicans in 2018. 
The super PAC’s approach has resonated with some of the nation’s richest. Its donors include Linkedin cofounder Reid Hoffman, family of TPG chairman David Bonderman, Estée Lauder heir Gary Lauder, investor Seth Klarman, and Henry Laufer, who was vice president of research at hedge fund Renaissance Technologies until he retired. In April 2018, Lauder contributed $50,000 to the PAC, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Shortly after, Hoffman joined the cause with a $1 million contribution; the Bonderman family gave a combined $937,500. Contributions have continued in 2019. In September, Henry Laufer and his wife Marsha donated $500,000 to the PAC.  
“[Forward Majority] offers financial contributors a great way to spend very cost-effective dollars to increase Democrat’s power,” says Rob Stavis, a partner at Bessemer Venture Partners who has donated $500,000 to Forward Majority since 2017. “[My partner and I] love its primary near-term benefit of more power in the 2020 redistricting cycle, but also love that it helps build a stock of candidates who can go on to other roles⁠—including stronger congressional candidates⁠—over time.”
State legislators in at least 31 of the 50 states in the U.S. draw the congressional lines within their state, according to data from the Brennan Center For Justice. Once every decade, the majority of U.S. states use the legislative process to pass a law that redraws district lines in the year following the national census. The boundaries of each district will be drawn next in 2021, and state legislators’ decisions will have a direct impact on congressional races and the configuration of the U.S House of Representatives over the following ten years. 
“We were born really into a moment following Trump’s election, when not only Democrats had less power at the federal level, but actually had less power in the state [level] than they had at any other point in 60 years,” Hausman tells Forbes. She says Forward Majority’s goal is to give Democrats a voice in the redistricting process and address gerrymandering. 
State legislatures are not necessarily on the radar of big donors. In 2018, mega donors such as George Soros, Sheldon Adelson and Michael Bloomberg poured hundreds of millions of dollars into swaying the election towards a certain presidential candidate or U.S. senator. Forward Majority, founded by Hausman, who is a former business strategist, and former Obama campaign operative David Cohen, has been wooing the nation’s richest to move away from major races, arguing that the return on investment can be higher in smaller races. 
“We went to people who were venture capitalists or were otherwise professional investors, and we shared with them our investment thesis,” Hausman says. “We treated this like an investment proposition where the return is impact.” Democrats reportedly spent over $1 billion on the 2018 midterm elections, but Forward Majority estimates that a successful campaign can be run for $500,000 to flip a competitive seat in a state legislature. The super PAC figures that achieving a Democratic majority in state houses across Texas, Florida and North Carolina could cost much less than was spent by Democratic donors in the 2018 midterms. 
In 2018, Forward Majority spent on average $75,000 (and up to $130,000) on state races in Arizona, Virginia, Texas, Florida, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin. “There was an average improvement in Democratic performance of +7% over past Democratic candidate performance in those districts,” according to the organization’s latest report. For 2019, Forward Majority’s three main targets in Tuesday’s elections are the state houses in Texas and Virginia as well as the Virginia state senate. “The balance of power nationally through 2032 will be decided in these small, fragmented state legislature contests,” Hausman says. 
“What [Forward Majority has] been able to do is to dive into data in a really sophisticated way to identify which districts might actually be flippable, [and] that would help take back an entire chamber,” says David Daley, a former editor-in-chief of Salon and author of Ratf**ked: Why Your Vote Doesn't Count, a national bestseller on the GOP's gerrymandering efforts this decade. “These are the least exciting and sexy races to generate money for. … At a time when donors have 20 presidential candidates to give to, senate races to give to, they have done the hard work of identifying the most challenging districts but also talking people into funding those really hard races.”
