
# Manufacturing PMI drops to 2-year low in October on softening demand

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Reuters**

Original: [Business-Standard](https://www.business-standard.com/article/economy-policy/manufacturing-pmi-drops-to-2-year-low-in-october-on-softening-demand-119110100289_1.html)

Manufacturing activity in the country continued to weaken in October, with factory orders and production rising at the weakest rates in two years, a monthly survey said on Friday.
The headline seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) fell to a two-year low of 50.6 in October from 51.4 in September.
This indicates only a marginal improvement in the health of the manufacturing industry, the survey said.
In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below that denotes contraction.
As per the IHS Markit survey, the cooling of manufacturing sector conditions in India continued in October, with both factory orders and production rising at the weakest rates for two years.
"Subsequently, job creation softened to a six-month low, while companies were reluctant to hold excess stock and lowered input buying in response," it noted.
The PMI data for October showed a continuation of manufacturing sector weakness in India, "with sales growth softening to the slowest in two years", said Pollyanna De Lima, Principal Economist at IHS Markit.
"Weakening demand had a domino effect in the manufacturing industry, knocking down rates of increase in production, employment and business sentiment," Lima said.
With quantities of purchases contracting for the third month in a row, Lima pointed out that input costs fell for the first time in over four years during October.
