
# How will MPs elect a new Speaker?

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:31:36+00:00**

Author: **Peter Walker**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/04/how-will-mps-elect-a-new-speaker-john-bercow)

Everything you need to know about the process to choose John Bercow’s successor
After more than a decade in the Speaker’s chair, John Bercow stepped down from the role on Thursday. The Commons will elect his replacement on Monday. This is what to expect.
Nomination papers for candidates need to be handed in by 10.30am. Each candidate should have nominations from 12 or more other MPs, at least three of whom must be from their own party. The Commons starts at 2.30pm with each candidate getting five minutes to state their case.
There is then a secret ballot process among MPs. When the votes are counted, if any candidate has 50% or more of the vote they win. If not, it goes to a new round of voting, with any would-be Speakers getting less than 5% support eliminated each time.
This could require several rounds of voting and counting, so the result might not come until late afternoon or evening.
By tradition it is the longest-serving MP. In this case it will be Ken Clarke, the father of the house, who is set to retire at the election after 49 years in the Commons.
That question was raised last week, and at one point it looked as if the process would be put off until after the 12 December poll. Some MPs argue that there is an advantage in having the election now, as a post-election choice would require a lot of new members to select a Speaker from a field of people they did not know.
There will also be an election for Speaker after the election, as there is at the start of any new parliament, but this is traditionally not contested if the Speaker is not stepping down.
Assuming they all receive the necessary nominations there are seven MPs still in the frame:
Lindsay Hoyle: the Labour MP for Chorley since 1997, and a deputy speaker since 2010, he is seen as the frontrunner for the post.
Eleanor Laing: another deputy speaker, Laing is a Conservative, and is MP for Epping Forest. She could pip Hoyle to the job.
Chris Bryant: a popular Labour backbencher and self-professed Commons geek – he has written a two-volume history of parliament. Bryant is another possible winner, and has picked up recent support from Michael Gove, among others.
Rosie Winterton: also a deputy speaker, since 2017, Winterton was formerly Labour’s chief whip.
Harriet Harman: the longest-serving female MP and a reformer of its procedures for decades, the Labour MP has campaigned energetically but is now seen as perhaps an outsider.
Meg Hillier: an east London Labour MP, she chairs the influential public accounts committee.
Edward Leigh: a veteran Tory backbencher – he has represented Gainsborough since 1983.
