
# Aston Villa settle claim by former chief executive Keith Wyness

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:13:11+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Kemble**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-settle-claim-former-17188495)

Aston Villa have confirmed they have reached a settlement with former chief executive Keith Wyness.
Wyness brought a claim against the club and former owner Dr Tony Xia, believing he was unfairly treated in the lead up to his departure.
The former CEO was appointed by Xia in 2016 but was later suspended after falling out with the Chinese businessman.
The suspension was handed to Wyness in 2018 and he later stepped down from his role promising legal action.
Wyness brought a claim involving Villa, one that has now been settled out of court.
Villa confirmed today that they have reached a settlement with the former Everton and Aberdeen executive.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
A statement read: " Aston Villa Football Club confirm that it has today agreed an out of court settlement with former CEO, Mr Keith Wyness, who had brought a claim against the Club, and its former owner Dr Tony Xia, following his departure in June 2018.
"The current directors of the Club, none of whom were at the Club at the time of this dispute, accept Mr Wyness’ assertion that during this period he was seeking to act in the best interests of the Club.
"We wish him well for the future."
