
# MLB Off-Season Preview: The Top Target For All 30 Teams

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brett Knight**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brettknight/2019/11/03/mlb-off-season-preview-the-top-target-for-all-30-teams/)

Plenty of big names will be available in free agency this off-season, with Gerrit Cole and Anthony Rendon heading up the list.The next tier of free agents is nearly as impressive, though, and quite deep: Madison Bumgarner, Josh Donaldson, Didi Gregorius, Yasmani Grandal, Marcell Ozuna and Zack Wheeler. Stephen Strasburg adds to the star power now that he has reportedly opted out of his contract, and J.D. Martinez may join him.
The last couple of off-seasons have had slow free agency markets, but perhaps this class is just the thing to stoke the bidding. Here, Forbes.com’s SportsMoney contributors highlight the players each team will be keeping an eye on this winter.
Top Target: Needing a catcher who can hit, the Braves will bid for Yasmani Grandal, with World Series hero Robinson Chirinos a cheaper option. Failing there, Atlanta might trade for Buster Posey—especially if batterymate Madison Bumgarner also arrives from San Francisco. Read more on the Braves’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Dan Schlossberg.
Top Target: The Marlins can’t afford to be choosy; they’ll take anyone affordable who can bolster the offense or the bullpen until their minor leaguers are ready. Read more on the Marlins’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Wayne G. McDonnell Jr.
Top Target: If the Mets don’t re-sign Zack Wheeler, they could jump in the market for Gerrit Cole, who would make for a formidable duo with Jacob deGrom. More realistically, however, the Mets could look at Jake Odorizzi. Read more on the Mets’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jerry Beach.
Top Target: The Phillies will aim higher, but the realistic target is Mike Moustakas, who can play third base until prospect Alec Bohm is ready and then move to second, where he played for much of 2019. Read more on the Phillies’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Tony Blengino.
Top Target: The Nationals, despite their World Series victory, really need help in the bullpen and could turn to Will Smith, who had a 2.76 ERA with 34 saves for the Giants. Read more on the Nationals’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Ari Kaplan.
Top Target: Re-signing Nicholas Castellanos seems imperative given how well he fit at Wrigley Field after being added at the trade deadline. But bringing him back could mean that other core players must be moved for prospect-heavy packages. Read more on the Cubs’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Phil Rogers.
Top Target: The Reds need a shortstop, and despite a sub-par season with the Yankees, Didi Gregorius seemingly still has a lot left in the tank. He would be reuniting with the organization that signed him as an amateur free agent from Curaçao. Read more on the Reds’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor John Perrotto.
Top Target: Mike Moustakas has been a perfect fit since coming over in a somewhat surprising deadline deal in 2018. He’s spent two consecutive winters waiting for a multi-year deal that never developed; perhaps he’ll finally work out a deal to stay in Milwaukee long term. Read more on the Brewers’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Andrew Wagner.
Top Target: Kyle Gibson is 32 and on the downside of his career, but he could be a solid innings eater for the rotation. Just don’t expect a major splash in free agency. Read more on the Pirates’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor John Perrotto.
Top Target: The Cardinals have coveted Josh Donaldson for years, but he’ll be 34 years old next season. Mike Moustakas would bring a left-handed bat, 30-plus-home-run power and quality defense at third base. Read more on the Cardinals’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Ryan Davis.
Top Target: If he shakes loose out of Los Angeles, the left-handed-hitting Kole Calhoun would help balance the lineup. Read more on the Diamondbacks’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jack Magruder.
Top Target: The Rockies could use a right-handed-hitting slugger in the outfield, so Marcell Ozuna could be a fit despite a second half derailed by injuries. Read more on the Rockies’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jack Etkin.
Top Target: Besides Gerrit Cole? The Dodgers could also pursue Anthony Rendon, who would be a luxury on this team. Read more on the Dodgers’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Anthony Witrado.
Top Target: The Padres will have plenty of competition, but Stephen Strasburg is a San Diego native and a San Diego State alum. They’ll try to convince him the team is ready to turn a corner. Read more on the Padres’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jay Paris.
Top Target: Non-competitive teams rebuilding their cores aren’t necessarily buying from the free-agent bins. More likely, Farhan Zaidi will be looking to buy prospects, with Kevin Pillar and Alex Dickerson as trade bait. Read more on the Giants’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Anthony Witrado.
Top Target: The Orioles want to develop talent internally but could really use an innings eater. Just don’t expect Gerrit Cole. Read more on the Orioles’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jeff Seidel.
Top Target: J.D. Martinez may opt out of his contract, which would open a gaping hole at designated hitter. Edwin Encarnacion, a target in the past, could take over the slugging duties. Read more on the Red Sox’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Matt Kalman.
Top Target: After missing out on Cliff Lee in 2010, Justin Verlander in 2017 and Patrick Corbin in 2018, the Yankees will likely renew their hunt for an ace in the Gerrit Cole bidding. Are they willing to accept the cost of doing business? Read more on the Yankees’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Larry Fleisher.
Top Target: Kevin Cash did a tremendous job in getting the most out of several relievers in 2019, but his job would be easier with a true closer on board—perhaps Will Smith? Read more on the Rays’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Tom Layberger.
Top Target: Any of Jhoulys Chacin, Ivan Nova and Jason Vargas would be a good fit on a short-term deal for a team in desperate need of innings eaters as its young stars develop. Read more on the Blue Jays’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jordan Horrobin.
Top Target: J.D. Martinez will jump to the top of the wish list if he opts out of his deal with the Red Sox—he would likely be easier to land than Anthony Rendon or Gerrit Cole for a team ready to spend in free agency. Read more on the White Sox’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Phil Rogers.
Top Target: Jonathan Schoop would give the Indians a power-hitting second baseman—and take him out of the Twins’ lineup. Read more on the Indians’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jim Ingraham.
Top Target: The Tigers need a bat. Several bats. Anthony Rendon will be in high demand, but if the Tigers are serious about moving forward, they need to be in the mix. Read more on the Tigers’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jared Wyllys.
Top Target: Affordable starting pitching is always a target, and the young staff did not markedly improve in 2019. Miles Mikolas could be in the crosshairs; he had a strong season for Mike Matheny when the two were together in St. Louis for much of 2018. Read more on the Royals’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jack Magruder.
Top Target: If the Twins want to compete with the best teams in baseball, they will go after Stephen Strasburg. That seems unlikely, though, so Dallas Keuchel could fill the role of ace. Read more on the Twins’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Steve Silverman.
Top Target: Zack Wheeler, whom the Astros tried to acquire in July, would be a much cheaper version of Gerrit Cole—a strikeout artist who would fit right in on a club that loves flamethrowers. Read more on the Astros’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Dan Schlossberg.
Top Target: The Angels should be willing to shell out for Gerrit Cole, an Orange County native who played college ball at nearby UCLA. Read more on the Angels’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Barry M. Bloom.
Top Target: The Athletics would like to balance their outfield with a left-handed hitter, and even though he hit just .230 in 2019, the speedy Jarrod Dyson could be a good fit; he stole 30 bases for the Diamondbacks. Read more on the Athletics’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor John Perrotto.
Top Target: James Norwood spent very limited time with the Cubs in 2019 but had a solid season at Triple-A and could be a target in a trade—perhaps for Dee Gordon. Read more on the Mariners’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Maury Brown.
Top Target: Anthony Rendon, a native Texan and Rice University product, would address an acute on-field need and become a face of the franchise. He could bat No. 3 in the Rangers’ lineup, ahead of Joey Gallo, for years. Read more on the Rangers’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Tony Blengino.
