
# Mum's clever ketchup money saving hack helps her cut down on household bills

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:29:44+00:00**

Author: **Brendan McFadden**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/mums-clever-ketchup-money-saving-20812576)

A mum has revealed how she saved money by switching Heinz Tomato Ketchup for a cheaper Aldi version to save cash — and her family didn't know the difference.
Michele Black previously bought bottles of the 650g bottles of the Heinz favourite priced at £2.
To cut down on her household bills she has been topping up empty Heinz bottle with Aldi's Bramwells ketchup which costs only 45p for 560g and served it up at a Sunday family dinner.
Michelle shared her money saving trick on the Aldi Shoppers UK Facebook group where people said they had adopted similar methods to save cash.
 
"Tonight before dinner I filled an empty Heinz bottle with Aldi sauce,'  Michele said.
"The husband and son both used it and as they take on EVERYTHING, near enough,' Michele wrote in a post which gathered more than 500 likes.
"Not one has mentioned it tasting different, and although I don't take it unless on sausages, neither can I.
"Win win for me, I think."
According to the Daily Mail, one user replied they did not stop at just sauces but had extended to other household items, writing: "I do it with everything, cereals, sauces, shampoo, shower gels.
Another added: "I've done this for years. No comments ever."
Heinz ketchup created in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1869 and is the best selling brand of ketchup.
