
# Health Emergency Initiative - Lagos organisation paying hospital bills of poor Nigerians

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:00:30+00:00**

Author: **Nicholas Ibekwe and Ifeoluwa Adediran**

Original: [Premium Times Nigeria](https://www.premiumtimesng.com/health/health-interviews/360762-health-emergency-initiative-lagos-organisation-paying-hospital-bills-of-poor-nigerians.html)

If Gift Julius and her husband had been able to pay the N250,000 demanded by officials at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), perhaps three of their children would still be alive.
In the evening of July 16, 2018, while Mrs Julius, who lived in Ilaje, a ghetto in the largely affluent neighbourhood of Lekki, was in nearby Sangotedo where she worked as a maid, tragedy struck her family.
Her husband, John, locked their four children in their one-room apartment in the often-crowded tenement building common in Nigeria’s ghettos called ‘face-me-I-face-you’ while he went to buy something at a bus-stop close to their home. Before he returned, the children who were between five and one-year-old, inadvertently set fire on the family mattress. The fire soon spread to the entire room.
By the time neighbours broke into the room to rescue the children, they were badly burned. Before they arrived at a nearby hospital, one of the children was already dead. The three surviving children, who suffered burns of between 60 per cent to 73 per cent of their bodies were later referred to LUTH.
At LUTH the distraught parents were asked to deposit N250,000 before the children could be treated at the hospital’s ICU. They could not raise the money. Soon two of the surviving three children died.
