
# Klopp: We Can't Go On Like This

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:26:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/uefa-champions-league/jurgen-klopp-we-can-t-go-on-like-this/666848)

Having previously threatened to withdraw Liverpool from one of England's prestigious cup competitions, Jurgen Klopp once again vented his frustration after it was announced that his team will play two fixtures in two different countries in two days.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see some images of Liverpool in action at home on Wednesday night!
        
      
Following the Reds' penalty shootout win over Arsenal after a scintillating 5-5 draw in the Carabao Cup last week, Klopp warned that he would pull his team out of the tournament if an appropriate date for the quarter-final was not set.
With Liverpool competing in the FIFA Club World Cup next month, last season's UEFA Champions League winners face a congested fixture list, and Klopp concerned as to how his team will get through the run of the games.
On Tuesday, hours before the Merseysiders' 2-1 UCL win over Genk, it was announced that their quarter-final at Aston Villa would be played just a day before their Club World Cup semi-final next month.
After their victory over the Belgian side, Klopp did not hold back as he criticised the English Football League's scheduling, although he did insist he respects the competition and that this team will play the game.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
"The Carabao Cup makes it sound like we don't want to play in it, but that is not true, but I don't understand two games in the semi-final, that I don't like in a busy period of the season," the German tactician said, according to the BBC.
"The Club World Cup you only play if you win the Champions League and that does not happen in your life five million times, so you take that opportunity.
"Is it the best time of the year? Nope. We will go there; we will try to play all the games with what we have and all that we have.
"You should think about these things before you start because the Carabao Cup is not the only problem we have.
"If you have an FA Cup replay – which I do not like – and go through into the Carabao Cup final, we had a situation a few years ago when we played at West Ham and everyone was in front of the TV watching the FA Cup and hoping we do not go through (because of fixture congestion).
"You cannot work like this, where we hope that somebody will go out and everything will be fine. We try to ignore that this time with Arsenal, but the boys just wanted to play football.
"I don't want to cancel competitions; I am from Germany – why would I want to cancel English competitions? It should still be possible, and that is what I did, but some people do not like it, I cannot change that.
"We cannot carry on like this, come on. We have to sit down on the table and at one point we have to find solutions. The solution, so far, are more problems."

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
