
# Apple TV Plus Launches In India Today, Here's Everything You Need To Watch

Published at: **2019-11-01T02:13:42+00:00**

Author: **Ankur Pathak**

Original: [HUFFPOST](https://www.huffingtonpost.in/entry/apple-tv-plus-where-to-watch_in_5dbaa8cee4b00d83f72306a4)

Apple TV Plus, the streaming service from tech giant Apple, launches worldwide today.
In a surprise move, the monthly subscription for the service is a relatively cheap Rs. 99, compared with Netflix’s Rs. 500. The first seven days are part of the trial period and are free. 
Those who buy a new Apple device will get a year of free Apple TV Plus subscription but the same offer isn’t valid for existing users of Apple products. 
So do you need to own an Apple device to stream the content on its platform?
Short answer: No.
Can the shows be streamed only via the Apple TV app?
No again. You can stream it on your web browser.
Great. Now that’s out of the way, do you really need to sign up?
Well, about that.
According to the Financial Times, the cash rich company is spending an eye-popping $6 billion on new shows to compete with established players such as Netflix, Amazon and Hulu.
One of its biggest offerings is The Morning Show, reportedly one of the most expensive TV shows in history, with a budget of more than $15 million per episode. Starring Hollywood royalty Reese Witherspoon, Jennifer Aniston and Steve Carell, the show foregrounds the #MeToo movement.
Some of Apple’s other shows include Jason Momoa-starring See, alternate-history drama For All The Mankind and the Hailee Steinfeld-starrer coming-of-age comedy Dickinson.
But here’s the bad news. None of the shows have been universally loved by critics or viewers. Though it’s early days yet, See is currently the worst-reviewed show for Apple with just a 46% rating on Rotten Tomatoes while The Morning Show is currently at 58%. 
Here’s more about the shows on Apple TV: 
 
