
# Broke alcoholic tries to steal for a drink

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Praveen Kumar**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/broke-alcoholic-tries-to-steal-for-a-drink/articleshow/71930405.cms)

Drunkard got into his neighbour’s house when there was no one home and took gold ornaments, but was caught in the act A resident of Kasaba got the scare of her life when she came home and found that her house was locked from inside and her 12-year-old son just wouldn’t open despite repeated knocking. Yallama, a housewife, called her neighbours to help her and everybody gathered to try and get the boy to open the door. As this was going on, who should appear from a nearby playground, but the son, Chandan Kumar. This mystified those gathered outside the house. Then who was in the house? As all the neighbours mulled over calling the police, the door opened and standing behind it was a drunkard, G Harisha, 24, who also lived in the vicinity. Inside Harisha’s pockets were stuffed ornaments stolen from the house. Harisha tried to escape from the crowd, but fell inside an open drain and broke his leg.
.
The theft happened at Manjunath and Yallamma’s house last Tuesday. Harisha had entered the house after confirming that there was nobody in the house. Manjunath works in a private firm located near Makali on Tumakuru Road. Yallama had stepped out and the boy must have gone out after her as the incident happened between 10 and 11 am. “Kumar had gone to play without locking the door. Yallamma had gone out to buy groceries and her husband had gone for work. When she returned, she found the door locked from inside and assumed her son was inside. That is why she called her neighbours for help when no one opened the door,” said a police officer. When the public started discussing whether to call the cops or to break the door open, the door opened and everybody saw Harisha standing behind the door.
He said that he was broke and nobody gave him money for alcohol –
A police officer“When they checked him, they found a gold finger ring, a silver anklet and Rs 1,000 in his pocket. The police were immediately called. After he was questioned, he claimed that he works as an auto driver and did not have money to consume alcohol. He further claimed that nobody gave him money to drink. After getting treated, the accused has been remanded to judicial custody,” the officer added. The police have found out that he was a first time offender and a habitual drunkard. The Nelamangala Rural police have registered a case under Section 380 of the Indian Penal Code (house theft).
