
# MTV EMAs: Dua Lipa flashes stockings on red carpet as awards kicks off in Seville

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:53:42+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/mtv-emas-dua-lipa-flashes-20804064)

The MTV EMAs kicked off in style tonight, with Dua Lipa leading the red carpet arrivals at the glitzy event in Seville, Spain.
Dressed in a sheer black midi-dress, the New Rules singer, 24, flashed her bra as she posed for snaps alongside a host of famous faces from the world of music.
Her kooky number was slit to the thigh, allowing her to flash her stockings and metallic black boots.
Dua also wore a black corset style waist belt over the dress, drawing attention to her slim frame.
Her blonde locks were worn in a slick backed style and she sported a pair of dangling diamond earrings.
Fresh from an appearance on Celebrity X Factor last night, Nicole Scherzinger, 41, arrived at the awards in a sequin red mini dress.
The skintight number clung to her curves and allowed her to show off her endless pins.
She teamed the look with black stilettos and wore her raven coloured locks loose around her shoulders.
Cristiano Ronaldo, 34, turned up in a smart white suit, which he dressed down with a white t-shirt and matching trainers.
He was accompanied by his girlfriend Georgina Rodriguez, who poured her curves into a bright blue dress that was slit at the thigh and low cut on the cleavage.
Singer Mabel, 23, donned an eye-catching lace jumpsuit that flaunted her cleavage.
She pulled the look together with a statement belt and a long flowing skirt.
Halsey sported a kooky asymmetric look which had mismatched floral patterns and a high-low hem.
The 25-year-old posed with Niall Horran, who looked dapper in a checked double breasted suit.
Supermodel Joan Smalls, 31, sported just a black bra and a slinky pink skirt that was slashed on the thighs.
Her fellow model Leomie Anderson wore a kooky butterfly dress that barely covered her naked body.
She sported a high ponytail and pulled the outfit together with a pair of black stilettos.
Argentine actress and singer J Mena flashed her boobs in a glittery bra, which just about covered her nipples.
She teamed the outlandish look with a pair of glittery jeans and matching denim jacket.
Italian heiress Elettra Lamborghini wowed in a blue floor-sweeping gown, dressing her outfit down with a ponytail.
