
# ACCUWEATHER ALERT: First cold blast for the Tri-State

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:42:18+00:00**

Author: **WABC**

Original: [ABC7 New York](https://abc7ny.com/weather/accuweather-alert-first-cold-blast-for-the-tri-state-/27410/)

NEW YORK (WABC) -- By daybreak on Friday, temperatures will plummet and the added wind chill will make it feel like 25 degrees in Central Park and even colder to the north and west.
A fast-moving system will bring some light snow to higher elevations overnight, but for most of us, the story is the arrival of the coldest air of the season.
As the cold air arrives on the backside of the front, some snow can be expected in the Poconos and Catskills.
Some northern communities could also see some mixing or even flurries.
Friday will be an AccuWeather Alert day because of the cold and blustery conditions.
High temperatures might not break the 40 degree mark in some places. Wind chills will keep it feeling like the 20s and teens.
Here is the 7-day forecast for the Tri-State area:
FridayBlustery and colder with a high of 40.
SaturdayCold but not as windy. High 42.
SundayMix of clouds and sun with a high of 53.
MondayCloudy to partly sunny for the Veterans Day Parade. High 55.
TuesdayRain to snow. High of 45, but dropping into the 20s.
WednesdayGusty and cold again. High 37.
ThursdayClouds increase. High 41.
Click here for the latest watches and warnings from the National Weather Service.
Check the weather any time at abc7NY.com/weather. For weather updates wherever you go, please download the AccuWeather app.

        Here's a look at the 7 Day AccuWeather forecast
      
