
# Trump's Paris Climate Deal Withdrawal Puts The Pressure On 2020 Voters

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:58:34+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/trumps-paris-climate-deal-withdrawal-puts-the-pressure-on-2020-voters-19296146)

On Monday, the Trump administration announced it had begun the process of withdrawing from the Paris Agreement. However, the official exit won't happen for another year — and that's right around the time of the next presidential election. So if you're concerned about Trump's Paris climate deal withdrawal, remember the 2020 election is all the more important for one additional reason: the next president could decide to rejoin the international climate agreement.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's Tuesday announcement might be confusing, given that Trump declared his intentions to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Agreement over two years ago. But there's a simple reason for this delay: per CNN, Monday marked the earliest day within the framework of the agreement that a country could formally begin to withdraw. What's more, the process will not be complete until Nov. 4, 2020, exactly one year after the announcement.
That being said, it's worth keeping in mind that the agreement was non-binding to begin with. The Trump administration has completely ignored the parameters of the Paris Agreement for the last two years, even though the country has technically still been a part of it — and the administration can continue to ignore those parameters for the next year. But there's a silver lining for those in favor of aggressive action against climate change: after the United States exits the Paris Agreement officially, it can quickly rejoin, if it has a president willing to do so.
