
# R2-D2 actor tells of joy at filling Kenny Baker’s shoes inside ‘the can’

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:14:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/showbiz/r2-d2-actor-tells-of-joy-at-filling-kenny-bakers-shoes-inside-the-can-961188.html)

Star Wars actor Jimmy Vee has spoken of his delight at getting to play the charismatic droid R2-D2, ahead of the upcoming release of The Rise Of Skywalker.
Vee has filled the shoes of the late Kenny Baker in the three sequels, which will conclude when the JJ Abrams-directed blockbuster hits cinemas on December 19.
The Scottish actor said he does not know what is next for the franchise, but he may be ready to step back from his movie career and leave R2-D2 – or “the can” – behind.
Vee told the PA news agency: “Now it’s coming to an end we don’t know how it’s going to go.
“I’m only glad to be the guy who stepped into the shoes of Kenny Baker.
“Whatever way it goes from now or in the future, in the words of William Wallace, they may take away my can but they’ll never take away my glory.”
Vee was speaking at a preview of a new robot-themed exhibition at V&A Dundee, featuring an original R2-D2 prop.
After starting his career as a stunt double, Vee’s credits now also include Rocketman, Doctor Who and Harry Potter.
The 60-year-old, from Shotts, North Lanarkshire, said: “I don’t think there’s much left for me to do now.
“I thought that (Star Wars) would be the end of it, and then I did Rocketman.
“It seems that I’ve done everything. What I need now, I think, is to go and sit back in the sunshine and say that’s it, I’ve had enough.”
