
# Sundowns Held By Struggling Baroka

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:26:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/absa-premiership-report-baroka-v-mamelodi-sundowns-06-november-2019/666908)


        Absa Premiership
      
Result: Baroka 0-0 Mamelodi Sundowns
Date: 06 November 2019
Venue: Peter Mokaba Stadium
Mamelodi Sundowns endured a frustrating evening at the Peter Mokaba Stadium as they were held to a goalless draw by struggling Baroka FC in the Absa Premiership.
After playing 120 minutes on Sunday, Mauricio Affonso dropped to the bench as Lebohang Maboe returned to the Sundowns attack, while influential midfielders Themba Zwane and Gaston Sirino missed out through injury.
Baroka, who were desperate for victory, went close to breaking the deadlock on 12 minutes but Denis Onyango was on hand to deny Patjie with a superb save in a one-on-one situation.
Despite the hosts of injuries affecting the defending champions, they continued to dictate play for most of the first half but clear-cut chances were hard to come by for Pitso Mosimane's charges.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
Mosimane opted for a change shortly after the break as the lanky Affonso made way his way onto the pitch for Meza, who endured another frustrating cameo upfront.
Frustration began to grow for the visitors, who resorted to strikes from distance as Maboe forced Elvis Chipezeze into a good save after 75 minutes, before the Baroka shot-stopper denied Affonso moments later.
In an attempt to sneak something late on, Baroka coach Wedson Nyrienda made a change with 15 minutes remaining as Kulegani Madondo replaced Goodman Mosele.
However, rhe home side did finish the game with ten men after Matome Kgoetyane was given his marching orders for a challenge on Tebogo Langerman.
The sending off had no bearing on the result for Baroka, who managed to hold on for the point against the defending champions.

        Here's how they lined up:
      
Baroka: 1. Chipezeze, 33. Farmer, 14. Mosele, 2. Kgoetyane, 18. Shozi, 23. Ngubane, 17. Kambala, 35. Nxumalo, 9. Mbulu, 20. Phiri Jnr, Patjie.
Subs: 30. Dlamini, 5. Makume, 26. Ntswane, 24. Madondo, 21. Mongae, 8. Mdantsane, 28 Nsimba.
Sundowns: 14. Onyango, 4. Langerman, 16. Ngcongca, 2. Madisha, 13. Mabunda, 8. Kekana, 5. Lebusa, 27. Morena, 7. Meza, 11. Vilakazi, 33. Maboe.
Subs: 1. Mweene, 15. Jali, Coetzee, 7. Lakay, 25. Ngoma, 9. Affonso, 21. Mkhusile.
