
# Daniel Romanchuk and Manuela Schar Win N.Y.C. Marathon Wheelchair Races

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:31:04+00:00**

Author: **Ken Belson**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/03/sports/daniel-romanchuk-manuela-schar-win-nyc-marathon-wheelchair.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

Daniel Romanchuk won the men’s wheelchair race of the New York City Marathon in 1 hour 37 minutes 24 seconds on Sunday morning in a rematch of last year’s down-to-the-wire showdown with Marcel Hug.
Manuela Schar won the women’s race for the third consecutive year, in 1 hour 44 minutes and 20 seconds.
The men’s race featured the strengths of both racers, with Romanchuk powering through the uphill portions of the course and Hug taking the lead on the downhill sections. Romanchuk, who lives in Illinois, bolted to the front at the start in Staten Island, racing up the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge and gliding into Brooklyn. Hug, of Switzerland, tracked him down there.
Hug, who won the race in 2016 and 2017, lost to Romanchuk last year by one second. Romanchuk took advantage of his 6-foot-10 wingspan that allows him to use 17-inch wheels on his chair, while most others use 15- and 16-inch wheels.
At the 20-mile mark, in the Bronx, David Weir and Aaron Pike re-emerged and created a four-man pack. At the 22-mile point, Pike poked into the lead but was unable to pull away. Along Fifth Avenue, Romanchuk retook the lead for good, holding off Hug and Weir in a sprint to the finish. Hug finished one second behind Romanchuk.
The women’s race held no such drama. Schar, of Switzerland, led from start to finish, solidifying her dominance on the world stage. She is the titleholder in all six marathon majors. In past years, she has all but replaced Tatyana McFadden of the United States as the world’s most dominant female wheelchair marathoner.
Both winners collected $25,000.

        Continue reading the main story
      
