
# Internationals Return As Leinster Name Team For Connacht Clash

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:29:21+00:00**

Author: **Sean McMahon**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/rugby/smcmahon/henshaw-connacht-leinster/)


        Leinster have named their team for Friday night’s Guinness PRO14 clash with Connacht (KO 19.35) at the Sportsground which includes a number of returning Ireland internationals.
      
There are a number of changes to the team which secured a bonus-point 50-15 win over the Dragons last weekend.
James Lowe keeps his spot on the wing while Hugo Keenan comes in at fullback and Adam Byrne starts on the right wing.
Robbie Henshaw returns to outside centre where he partners Joe Tomane who also comes back into the side. Ross Byrne has been selected at out-half while Luke McGrath starts at scrum-half.
Up front, Cian Healy and Andrew Porter start on either side of the increasingly impressive Rónan Kelleher at hooker.
Scott Fardy captains the side from the second-row where he is joined by Devin Toner who keeps his spot from the win over the Dragons.
The back-row is made up of Josh Murphy, Will Connors and Max Deegan.
Rhys Ruddock and Rob Kearney are included on the bench after their efforts in Japan.

        Leinster Rugby (caps in brackets):
      
15. Hugo Keenan (9)14. Adam Byrne (54)13. Robbie Henshaw (37)12. Joe Tomane (17)11. James Lowe (33)10. Ross Byrne (75)9. Luke McGrath (113)1. Cian Healy (208)2. Rónan Kelleher (6)3. Andrew Porter (53)4. Devin Toner (235)5. Scott Fardy (47) CAPTAIN6. Josh Murphy (25)7. Will Connors (8)8. Max Deegan (51)
16. James Tracy (97)17. Ed Byrne (45)18. Michael Bent (129)19. Ross Molony (87)20. Rhys Ruddock (161)21. Jamison Gibson-Park (75)22. Ciarán Frawley (15)23. Rob Kearney (210)

        Referee: Sean Gallagher (IRFU)
      
