
# Video: UFC 245 Press Conference Live Stream

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/01/video-ufc-245-press-conference/)

The UFC's 2019 pay-per-view schedule is down to two events. This weekend sees Jorge Masvidal and Nate Diaz headline UFC 244 in New York City. The next — and final — PPV event of the year takes place on December 14 at T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas. The promotion has loaded that event with three title fights. The first of those three bouts sees Amanda Nunes defend her women's bantamweight title against Germaine de Randamie. In the co-main event of that card, Max Holloway puts his featherweight strap on the line against Alexander Volkanovski. Closing out the card, Kamaru Usman attempt to defend his welterweight crown against Colby Covington. The UFC hosts a press conference all six of those fighters and UFC president Dana White on Friday at Hulu Theater at Madison Square Garden in New York City. The event takes place at 5 p.m. ET.
Usman won the title in March of this year with a decision win over Tyron Woodley. The victory extended his winning streak to 14 straight. Usman is 10-0 in the UFC. Covington has long coveted a title shot. The former interim champion is coming off an August decision win over former champion Robbie Lawler. 
Holloway is coming off a decision win over Frankie Edgar in July. He successfully defended the title in that contest. Holloway has won 14 straight fights at 145 pounds. Volkanovski joined the UFC in late 2016. Since then, he has gone unbeaten, winning seven bouts. Volkanovski's most recent victory was a May decision victory over ex-champion Jose Aldo.
Nunes holds 135 and 145-pound titles. She defends her 135-pound belt at UFC 245 against former featherweight champion de Randamie. These two met in 2013. Nunes won that fight, her second with the UFC, by TKO in the first round. Nunes is on a nine-fight winning streak. De Randamie was stripped of the 145-pound title shortly after she defeated Holly Holm in 2017. Since then, she is 2-0 and coming off a 16-second TKO win over Aspen Ladd.
UFC 245 takes place at T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas on December 14.
You can watch a live stream of today's press conference here:
