
# Burnage crash: Teen dies after car hits building following police chase

Published at: **2019-11-04T03:28:54+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/burnage-crash-teen-dies-after-20806035)

A teenager has died and another man is fighting for his life after their car crashed into a building during a police chase.
Greater Manchester Police said officers attempted to stop a Ford Fusion at around 9.25pm in Burnage, Manchester, last night.
However, the vehicle failed to stop and crashed into a nearby building.
The two men in the car were taken to hospital with injuries believed to be life-threatening.
"One of them - believed to be a boy in his late teens - has since sadly died," police said.
 
"The other remains in hospital for treatment."
Police said the case has been referred to the Independent Office for Police Conduct, which had launched an investigation in the circumstances around the crash, in line with policy.
Detective Chief Superintendent Jon Chadwick, of Greater Manchester Police’s Professional Standards Branch, said: “I would like to extend our sincere condolences to the family of the person who has passed away following the collision in Burnage last night.
“The response to the incident is still ongoing and there are a number of road closures in place in the nearby area, with the scene likely to remain for some time.
“In line with our usual policy with incidents of this nature, we have made a referral to the Independent Office for Police Conduct and they have made a decision to launch an independent investigation into the circumstances surrounding the collision.”
Images from the scene show firefighters working to rescue the two men from the vehicle.
