
# 'Real deal!' - Aston Villa fans all saying the same thing about this player after Liverpool clash

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-liverpool-premier-league-17191883)

Aston Villa fans have been full of praise for midfielder Marvelous Nakamba after his performance in the 2-1 defeat to Liverpool on Saturday.
The Zimbabwe international put in another excellent display to further endear himself to the claret and blue faithful.
A summer signing from Club Brugge, Nakamba has played every one of Villa's Premier League games since he made his on September 16 in a goalless draw with West Ham United.
The 25-year-old needed to get up to speed and now he's coping with the rigours of English top flight football he looks at home on the biggest stage.
 
And there's no better platform to showcase your talents than a clash with the reigning European champions.
Villa and Nakamba took Jurgen Klopp's Reds all the way, opening the scoring on the 21st minute and holding their own right until the last.
Andy Robertson and Sadio Mane netted on the 87th and 94th minutes to break Villa hearts but there were plenty of positives from the Villa Park clash and Nakamba was one of them.
The claret and blue faithful took to social media to praise Nakamba in their droves post match.

        Here's the pick of the reaction...
      
@ FaraiJulian : Villa will be tweeting all season long because Nakamba is the real deal!    I predict he will keep this form up & another premier league club will definitely come for him at the end
@ Villanews11 : Him and trez were brilliant
@ Sorry_Errol : Nakamba for president    
@ VCub06 : He was Marvelous
@ maxredfern1 : He was competing against the best midfield in the world and was solid may have given the ball away but did everything he could
@ MarkSparkyD : Superb again. Gave everything
@ EddieShrews : He was superb.
@ UncleBee24 : Not the result we were expecting, but our wonder boy never ceases to amaze
