
# The Latest: Trial starts for man charged in fiancee’s death

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/1/the-latest-trial-starts-for-man-charged-in-fiancee/)

CRIPPLE CREEK, Colo. (AP) - The Latest on the trial of a Colorado man accused of killing his fiancee (all times local):
5:20 p.m.
The trial of a Colorado man accused of killing his fiancee and burning her body on his ranch has begun.
A jury was seated Friday for 33-year-old Patrick Frazee’s trial, and lawyers on both sides presented their opening arguments later in the day.
Frazee has pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder in the death of 29-year-old Kelsey Berreth, who was last seen nearly a year ago with the couple’s daughter near her home about two hours south of Denver. Her body hasn’t been found despite several searches, including at a landfill.
A former Idaho nurse who pleaded guilty to evidence tampering in the case for moving Berreth’s cell phone has agreed to testify against him under a plea agreement.
9:30 a.m.
Opening statements are anticipated in the trial of a Colorado man charged with killing his fiancee and burning her body on his ranch.
A jury is expected to be seated for the trial of Patrick Frazee on Friday, allowing lawyers to present their view of the case to them later in the day.
Frazee has pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder in the death of 29-year-old Kelsey Berreth. She was last seen nearly a year ago with the couple’s daughter near her home about two hours south of Denver.
Her body hasn’t been found despite several searches, including at a landfill.
A former Idaho nurse who pleaded guilty to evidence tampering in the case for moving Berreth’s cell phone has agreed to testify against him under a plea agreement.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
