
# Mario Balotelli targeted by racist abuse as referee halts match between Verona and Brescia

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:44:46+00:00**

Author: **James Whaling, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/james-whaling/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/mario-balotelli-boots-ball-crowd-20802483)

Mario Balotelli booted a football into the crowd in anger and attempted to storm off the pitch after suffering racist abuse while playing for Brescia against Verona.
The former Liverpool striker was left angered by the chants and referee Maurizio Mariani halted the game as part of the anti-racism protocol.
His teammates rushed over to calm Balotelli down while a message was read out to fans over the stadium PA.
A number of Brescia players also appeared to notify the match official that they too had heard racist abuse directed in Balotelli's direction.
He put the incident behind him to find the net in the closing stages of the match.
But he departed the field at full-time visibly upset, covering his face.
The incident comes after Saturday's Roma vs Napoli clash was also halted under the protocol due to chants from the stands.
 
Eddie Salcedo's goal gave Verona the lead in the match on Sunday afternoon in Serie A.
Matteo Pessina doubled their advantage in the last 10 minutes before Balotelli pulled one back for the visitors. The match finished 2-1.
After the game, Verona boss Ivan Juric claimed not to have heard any abuse.
He told Sky Sport Italia: "I don't know what set Balotelli off, you have to ask him.
“I am not afraid to say there were no racist chants today. They might’ve jeered and mocked the great player, but there was nothing there. Nothing.
“I’ve been called ‘s***** gypsy’ many times and Italy is moving towards this general idea of blaming foreigners for everything, but this was not the case today.
“You can ask him, there was nothing there. I am disgusted by racist abuse and I will be the first to condemn it when it happens, but this was not it.
“They provoked him with jeers and sarcastic chants, but they were not racist. Anything else is a lie."
“It is absolutely unacceptable to see racist insults in 2019 and I will condemn any of my fans who do such a thing, but that was not the case today. They were shouting ‘Mario’ in a sarcastic way.
“He kicked the ball into the stands, but that’s his problem.”
Balotelli reportedly turned down a move to Verona in the summer in favour of joining his hometown club.
It is not the first time this season that Verona fans have appeared to racially abuse an opponent, with AC Milan midfielder Franck Kessie on the receiving end in September.
On that occasion, the club’s official twitter account took exception with claims the following day, stating that whistles and boos from the crowd had simply been for the referee.
Last week, Balotelli kicked a camera in frustration during Brescia's 3-1 defeat against Geona.
Brescia's furious owner said he would force Balotelli to pay for the damage caused by the incident which occurred as he was substituted for Alfredo Donnarumma.
Balotelli played for Liverpool and Manchester City during his time in the Premier League.
