
# Have you a flair for finance? If so you can always bank on NIJobs.com for a clever career move

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:26:00+00:00**

Author: **NIJOBS.com**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/business/businessnews/2019/11/04/news/have-you-a-flair-for-finance-if-so-you-can-always-bank-on-nijobs-com-for-a-clever-career-move-1754955/)

1
Martin & Hamilton is a successful, family owned building and civil engineering company that has been based in Ballymena, Co. Antrim since 1967. The finance manager will lead and manage the Accounts Department introducing new ways of working and maximising the use of information systems to improve the effectiveness of a dedicated and capable team.Apply
2
The successful candidate will have managerial ability, be highly motivated, well organised and provide stability and leadership. Essential to the position are excellent communication skills and an ability to liaise with patients, staff and external organisations.Apply
3
This is an exciting opportunity for a commercial insurance broker who will be responsible for placing new business and processing renewal of existing business. Curran Connolly & Co. Insurance Brokers have been in business since 1967.Apply
4
Gary Matthews Solicitors is looking for a Plaintiff litigation secretary with at least three years' post qualified experience in Litigation to join a busy team that produces outstanding work. The company specialises in ground breaking plaintiff litigation claims and is the number one Google reviewed plaintiff ligitation firm in Ireland. Apply
5
Reporting to the managing director, the successful candidate will have a dynamic and exciting function within the business, responsible for development and implementation of the sales and marketing strategy. N.I. Precision Ltd is an  accredited precision engineering business based in Lisburn serving the Aerospace and Medical industries.Apply
6
STATSports has grown from its humble origins in Ireland to become the world-leading provider of GPS player tracking and analysis equipment. A diverse and exciting role, the automation tester's duties will include developing automated functional UI tests & API/Service level tests and collaborating with other departments including Development, Architecture and TechOps to devise solutions for Test Automation.Apply
7
Reporting to the project manager, the health & safety co-ordinator will support the company co-ordinating health and safety on-site, ensuring all statutory and contractual obligations are met. The Heron Group of Companies, established since 1956, is one of the longest established private trading groups in Northern Ireland and has developed a strong reputation as one of the leading land, property, construction and manufacturing specialists.Apply

        Sign up for your free jobseeker account with NIJobs.com. We’ll keep you informed about new job opportunities and you’ll also find a wealth of information, helpful hints and tips on how to secure your ideal job.
      
