
# Man Utd and Tottenham 'hold transfer talks' with Andre Onana's agent

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:57:30+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/man-utd-tottenham-hold-transfer-20812777)

Manchester United and Tottenham have expressed interest in signing Ajax goalkeeper Andre Onana and have made contact with the player's agent, according to reports in Holland.
Onana has established himself as one of Europe's top goalkeepers after impressing for the Dutch giants last season.
In addition to helping Ajax to a domestic double, the 23-year-old played a key role in the club's sensational Champions League run, which saw Erik ten Hag's side beat the likes of Juventus and Real Madrid on their route to the semi-finals.
His performances last season and a strong start to the new campaign haven't gone unnoticed, with the Cameroon international reportedly attracting interest from United, Spurs an Paris-Saint Germain.
 
According to De Telegraaf , all three clubs are keeping an eye on Onana and have held talks with his agent Albert Botines over a potential deal.
The Dutch publication reports that Ajax would want a fee of between £34.5million and 43m for the goalkeeper, who was part of Barcelona's famous academy before making the move to the Eredivisie side in 2015.
It is claimed that Onana was a target for both his former club and PSG over the summer, shortly after extending his contract at the Johan Cruyff Arena until June 2022.
“It was a difficult decision.  But I’m a young keeper, and I need to play," he said after penning his new deal in March .
"I’m assured of this at Ajax, and it would be a question mark at some of the other top clubs abroad. 
"Moreover, Ajax had done a lot for me.  It’s important for me to give something back to the club."
Although Spurs could be in the market for a new number one after Hugo Lloris' poor early-season and his long-term injury, an approach from United would raise eyebrows after the Red Devils tied David De Gea down to a long-term contract in September.
Onana will be back in Champions League action on Tuesday night, when Ajax travel to Stamford Bridge to face Chelsea .
