
# 2 former Karnataka Ranji players arrested for KPL spot fixing

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:28:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/2-former-karnataka-ranji-players-arrested-for-kpl-spot-fixing/articleshow/71957450.cms)

Two former Karnataka Ranji players, who are presently playing for different states were arrested by Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths for their alleged role in the Karnataka Premiere League (KPL) spot fixing. Bellary Tuskers team captain CM Gautam,33, and Abrar Kazi, 30, are the ones arrested. They were allegedly involved in spot fixing in KPL 2019 finals between Hubli Tigers and Bellary Tuskers. The two were produced before a city-based local court on Thursday and have been sent to CCB's custody for seven days. “The two players were reportedly paid Rs 20 lakh for slow batting, and also for other things. The two are also accused of fixing another match against the Bangalore team,” Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) said. Gautam is a former Karnataka Ranji team player and also played for RCB, Mumbai and Delhi Daredevils IPL teams. Kazi also played Ranji for Karnataka. Both of them are now playing for different states. The arrest ofthe two players comes close on the heels of the arrest of Nishant Singh Shekhawat,a Bangalore team player. It may be recalled that the CCB sleuths had earlier arrested, Ali Ashfaq Thara, owner of Belagavi team, Vinu Prasad, a bowling coach of a KPL team and another batsman Vishwanathan. Kazi had also played one match for RCB in 2011. It is said that both Gautam and Kazi, who were named in their respective state squads for the coming national T20 tournament, Syed Mushtaq Ali trophy scheduled to begin from tomorrow, have been reportedly dropped following their detention. Further investigations are on.
