
# Arsenal told to break the bank for Brendan Rodgers and watch him transform the club

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:09:22+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-told-break-bank-brendan-20816987)

Former Arsenal favourite Paul Merson thinks the Gunners should do all they can to bring in Brendan Rodgers ahead of coming face-to-face with the Leicester City manager on Saturday.
With current boss Unai Emery coming under increasing pressure, the North Londoners head to the King Power Stadium this weekend in what looks to be a key game in the fight for a top four finish.
A win for the Foxes would take them nine points clear of the Gunners, and Merson believes that it would be a hugely damaging result for Emery.
"The gap is already six points to fourth and Arsenal are in a situation where they can realistically only afford to lose two more games this season to keep pace with the teams ahead of them," Merson told Sky Sports .
"And, to make matters worse, the fans are turning, they are booing, making decisions and chanting ‘you don’t know what you’re doing’.
"That’s not good, especially ahead of the two-week international break, a break in which Emery’s position will be under threat if they fall to the Foxes."
Merson went on to heap more praise on Rodgers, with the former Liverpool boss impressing since his return to the Premier League earlier this year following his successful spell at Celtic.
" Leicester have been outstanding. They have an unbelievable manager. Brendan Rodgers has improved every single player at his disposal," continued Merson.
"He’s getting a tune out of every single player, it’s incredible. If they beat Arsenal on Saturday, they will be in the driving seat for the top four.
"Rodgers has done so well that Leicester have a job on their hands keeping hold of him.
"If I were Arsenal, I’d be breaking the bank to get him, give him a five-year contract and sit back and watch him transform the club."
