
# Say hello to this bestselling ASOS trench that has become the must-have coat of the season

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:04:54+00:00**

Author: **Chantelle Symester**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/fashion-beauty/say-hello-bestselling-asos-trench-20801135)

Usually when we write about ASOS it’s to bring shoppers the latest news on sales and bargains to be found on the website.
Well, not today.
Admittedly, there are bargains to be found on Asos.com including up to 60% off footwear and accessories , but there’s also a must-have gem for the autumn/winter season.
ASOS has just launched a trench coat that has caught the attention of fashionistas everywhere for all the right reasons.
The ASOS Design trench costs £75 and comes in a traditional camel-coloured hue with check panelling at the front and back, notch lapels and tie waist.
Mirror Online reports that ASOS confirmed the trench is one of its bestselling items of the year - view it here on ASOS.com .
 
Speaking to Glamour UK , the brand revealed: "We have sold over 500 units in under 3 weeks. It's been our best-selling trench this year, with so many influencers being seen in it."
The coat is already becoming a cult high street buy thanks to receiving plenty of love on social media from high profile influencers like Alicia Roddy and stylist Hannah Crosskey.
Not only does it come in the regular mainline collection, there is also an identical version in the brand's Curve range .
So anyone looking for UK sizes 18 - 30 can pick one up and add it to their winter wardrobe.
