
# Here's The Cheapest Copies Of Red Dead Redemption 2 On PC In Australia

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:30:42+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Basford**

Original: [Kotaku Australia](https://www.kotaku.com.au/2019/11/cheapest-red-dead-redemption-pc-price-australia/)

If you're a PC-exclusive gamer, you probably haven't had a chance to yee-haw on horseback with your own copy of Red Dead Redemption 2.
Fortunately, the wait is over so you can experience the trials and tribulations of good-guy-slash-outlaw, Arthur Morgan, for yourself.
Red Dead Redemption 2 was released on 26 October 2018 for PlayStation and Xbox users but PC players had to sit tight. That time has now arrived so you'll be able to gallivant with fellow crims across the great fields, woods and swamps of middle America.
There are no physical copies available so you'll have to bite the bullet and prepare your broadband data for a digital copy from a limited range of stockists.
While the cheapest available price right now is via Green Man Gaming for $82.75, you'll get an additional game for free, so long as you buy through the Rockstar Games Social Club. The bonus game choices include Grand Theft Auto 3, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, Max Payne 3: The Complete Edition, L.A. Noire: The Complete Edition, Bully: Scholarship Edition or Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. If you've never played any of those iconic titles, it's not a bad idea to tack it onto your RDR 2 purchase for the standard retail price.
The title will also be coming to Steam in Decemeber.
Happy yee-hawing, outlaws.
