
# Royal Navy defends itself against 'hypersonic missiles' off UK coast

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:24:10+00:00**

Author: **Edd Moore**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/royal-navy-defends-itself-against-3502048)

The Royal Navy is being tested against the threat of hypersonic missiles off the United Kingdom's south coast.
Simulated anti-ship cruise and hypersonic missile defence drills are taking place off the British coast as part of a major exercise involving 13 NATO countries.
The six-day Naval Electromagnetic Operations trials are just coming to an end, putting the Royal Navy and its allies' state-of-the-art electronic defences to the test at sea.
Six ships, eight aircraft and around 1,500 personnel have been involved in NEMO 19, from the UK, United States, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Norway, Portugal, Spain and Turkey.
NATO spokesperson Oana Lungescu said: "NEMO 19 shows how Allies are working together to protect NATO forces from the threat of cruise and hypersonic missiles.
“This is NATO’s largest maritime electronic warfare exercise and a great example of how Allies are developing new defensive technology to meet emerging security challenges.
“NEMO 19 will also see the use of infrared and radar measurements to reduce the susceptibility of ships to enemy radars and missiles. Tactical data exchanges between participating ships as well as voice procedures if data links are jammed or tampered with will also be put to the test.  The technology is meant to counter the growing threat of ever more complex anti-ship missile systems proliferating around the globe.”
“NEMO 19 is taking so-called anti-access area-denial capabilities into account as we continue to adapt our deterrence and defence posture."
