
# UPDATE: Unifor says transit strike will continue till CMBC offers a new deal

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:42:00+00:00**

Author: **Katya Slepian**

Original: [North Delta Reporter](https://www.northdeltareporter.com/news/mayors-council-urges-both-sides-in-transit-strike-to-get-back-to-the-table/)

The chair of the Mayors’ Council on Regional Transportation is asking both sides of the transit strike to come to the table as the strike enters its fourth day.
“I am disappointed that we have not been able to resolve the labor dispute between Unifor and Coast Mountain Bus Company,” said chair and New Westminster Mayor Jonathan Cote, standing at his city hall steps on Monday.
“The bus service in the Metro Vancouver region is so critical to our transportation system and the expansion of our bus service is a significant part of the mayors’ 10-year-plan.”
The Mayors’ Council is not directly involved in negotiations, but their $7 billion 10-year-transit plan could be affected.
Cote said the $600 million cost difference between Unifor’s ask and CMBC’s offer was “incredibly significant” and would adversely affect the transit system. Unifor represents 5,000 bus operators and maintenance workers who work on buses across Metro Vancouver.
Coast Mountain workers have hit the fourth day of strike action Monday, after negotiations broke off between Coast Mountain Bus Company and the union on Friday.
The first phase of job action has included a uniform ban for bus drivers and an overtime ban for maintenance workers. The union is asking for pay rises overall and guaranteed breaks for bus operators.
