
# Five nights out to try this Thursday

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:13:00+00:00**

Author: **Reema Rahman**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/ladies-nights/421937-five-nights-out-to-try-this-thursday)

It’s nearly the weekend and it’s time to get planning, party people.
Need help? We’ve rounded up five of the best nights out to try this Thursday (November 7).
BASE DubaiHead to the cool club for the best of house and EDM from Hot Since 82, Birds of Mind and Dubai’s very own KayteK. Ladies also get free-flowing drinks all night long.Thu Nov 7, 11pm-4am. Dubai Design District (055 313 4999).
Industrial AvenueSteezy, the urban, R&B and hip-hop night is back for season two.Thu 10pm-3am. Ongoing. The Westin Dubai Mina Seyahi Beach Resort & Marina (052 293 5907).
Soho GardenGlitterbox is taking over the massive party destination with Simon Dunmore, The Shapeshifters and Teni Tinks, and Mousse T.Free. Thu Nov 7, 10pm-4am. Meydan Racecourse, Nad Al Sheba (052 388 8849).
Un Dimanche à ParisUnwind to a live band performing a variety of jazz songs, French classic hits and smooth blues.Thu & Fri 8pm-11.30pm. Ongoing. Bluewaters Dubai (04 564 0044).
WHITE DubaiTy Dolla $ign will be hitting up super-club WHITE Dubai for UNDRGROUND – a night dedicated to grime, hip-hop and garage. What’s more, ladies will receive unlimited free drinks until 1am.Free (ladies), Dhs300 (gents). Thu Nov 7, 10pm-4am. WHITE Dubai, Meydan Racecourse, Nad Al Sheba (050 443 0933).
Looking for more things to do in Dubai? We’ve rounded up 21 things to do in Dubai – from beaches to attractions and more, here.
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
