
# IND vs BAN | Sourav Ganguly to attend second T20I

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:23:59+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/ind-vs-ban-sourav-ganguly-to-attend-second-t-20-i?utm_medium=rss)


        Sources in the BCCI has confirmed that former India captain and newly-elected board president Sourav Ganguly will be in attendance for the second T20I between India and Bangladesh in Rajkot on Thursday. However, whether Cyclone Maha will affect the game schedule tomorrow is yet to be seen.
      
Despite the weather warnings and the heavy rainfall in Rajkot throughout Wednesday evening, the Saurashtra Cricket Association is confident of putting up a successful show for the second of the three-match T20I series. According to sources in the board, Ganguly, who was supposed to be in Mumbai this week for a series of meetings at the BCCI headquarters as per the initial schedule, he has put the meetings on hold and will reach Rajkot on Thursday morning.
“Sourav is supposed to come. That’s what we have been informed. We are looking forward to welcoming him,” Saurashtra Cricket Association chief Jaydev Shah told Sportstar.
“Eden Gardens is set to host the first-ever day-night Test match, a lot of work is left in Kolkata as well. So he might travel to Mumbai sometime next week,” one of the BCCI officials said.
Bangladesh leads the Men in Blue 1-0 in the series courtesy a seven-wicket win at the Arun Jaitley Stadium in Delhi.
