
# Builders at Edinburgh Christmas Market spotted balancing on plank at top of railings

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:43:18+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Morrow, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/daniel-morrow/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/builders-edinburgh-christmas-market-spotted-20822426)

A picture of two builders using a plank of wood to balance on a fence while working at the Edinburgh Christmas Market has fuelled further safety fears about the upcoming event.
The Daily Record reported on Tuesday that the world famous festive market would not open to the public until it is deemed safe, after a worrying picture was shared of wonky scaffolding balancing on a slope in Princes Street Gardens.
Now, a photo taken by a passer-by has emerged which shows two workers using a risky method to put up what looks like a decorative panel on the outer fence of the marker.
In the picture, taken on Friday, two builders can be seen using two planks of wood to balance on top of a spiked fence
The person who took the photo said he and two of his work colleagues were astounded when they saw what was happening in such a busy street.
He told the Daily Record that he has been working in contract management for the building trade for more than two decades.
 
He said: “We were walking down Princes Street at about 4.15pm on Friday night for a night out when we saw what these clowns were doing.
“All three of us are well versed on health and safety, so we’ve all seen some things in our time.
“When builders are doing something as ridiculous as this, they usually do it away from view - so to see it in such plain sight is something I’ve never seen before.
“We all had a laugh and a joke about it at first, but we then realised how shocking it actually was.
“I’d like to see the contractor do an investigation on this, as the whole fiasco is shocking.”
Underbelly, the firm organising the Christmas market have confirmed that they are now looking into the incident.
A spokesperson for Underbelly said: "Thank you for drawing this to our attention. This contractor is not working in accordance with our health and safety policies. 
"We are looking into the matter and will take it up with the staff concerned to ensure there is no repeat occurrence.
"The health and well-being of all our staff and visitors is our primary concern.”
Yesterday, a photo shared by Corstorphine Climate Action showed wonky scaffolding balancing on a slope at Princes Street Gardens.
And last month, Edinburgh Live told how the company behind the Capital’s Christmas market was handed a two-year contract extension, without councillors being shown the design of a controversial steel platform structure yet to receive planning permission.
It was signed off by the culture convener and his deputy.
 
Edinburgh City Council have since launched an investigation into whether correct processes were followed.
The Edinburgh Christmas Market is seen as a huge money spinner for the local economy in the area as thousands descend on the capital city.
