
# European chairman's stark message for some fellow rugby administrators - stop holding the sport back

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:54:37+00:00**

Author: **Liam Heagney**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/european-chairmans-stark-message-for-other-rugby-administrators-stop-holding-the-sport-back-simon-halliday)

Four years into his role as EPCR chairman, Simon Halliday has a stark message for other rugby administrators – stop holding the sport back.
As a still-youthful business, professional rugby continues to have a myriad of teething issues about how best to run the game.
Look at how divisive World Rugby’s failed attempt this year to set-up the Nations Championship proved to be – the Six Nations countries couldn’t reach an agreement with their southern hemisphere counterparts and a project that claimed to potentially be worth billions was tossed on the scrapheap.
What exasperates Halliday most is the lack of dialogue his organisation has been involved in. When it comes to financial clout, the clubs in Europe – especially those in England and France – are massively influential. Yet their opinion has apparently never been canvassed when it comes to the running of the global game.
It’s a situation the EPCR boss believes must come to an end, otherwise self-interest will prevent professional rugby from fully fulfilling its business potential and best looking after its most prized assets, the players.

        (Continue reading below…)
      

        Click here to see the video
      
“There is a lot of things that still need to improve and if I was to make a plea, the game has to converge in its administration and its big issues,” he told RugbyPass. “How we deal with player safety, it’s not common what we do for that. How we deal with match officials and players welfare, part of the salary cap discussion is around looking after players when they are not playing any more.
“That is a big issue for the game because we can’t expect Johnny Sexton just give his life and soul for Leinster and Ireland and then when he stops playing, what does he do? These are big things and as an ex-player, I understand the dynamic there of how we manage players through the season. Everyone just can’t take their bit.
“We see Japan might going to the Six Nations. Well, where are the extra international weekends coming for that then? People need to have to think about the whole calendar, the whole business of rugby on and off the field, and not enough people do it together. There are too many parallel lines. We have got to get closer,” he said, demanding World Rugby show better leadership from the top.
