
# Heartbreak As Club Confirms Liquidation!    

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:03:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/eastern-cape-club-tornado-fc-liquidation-confirmed/666816)

There has been a heartbreak in the football fraternity and for the people of the Eastern Cape after the liquidation of one of the clubs from the province. 
Tornado FC – the third tier club that hosted Kaizer Chiefs in January at Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane in the Nedbank Cup, has confirmed going into liquidation. 

        Read – Meyiwa Murder Investigation: ‘I Don't Fear Anyone’ 
      
In what was the biggest match of their history, Tornado held their own against Amakhosi only to lose 1-0 in extra-time through an own goal.  
Furthemore, Tornado are the reigning Eastern Cape ABC Motsepe League champions. Due to financial constraints experienced in recent times, Tornado failed to honour up to three of their league matches this season.  

        Read – New Meyiwa Update: ‘The Family Deserves Justice’ 
      
In March this year, Tornado chairman Siphiwo ‘Mawawa’ Nyobo was shot dead outside the North End Stadium in East London.
Since the passing of the club’s boss, his family struggled to finance the day-to-day operations of the club.  

        Read: Midfielder’s Red Card A Blessing In Disguise… 
      
Tornado have issued a statement confirming that the Mdantsane-based club has been liquidated.  

        It is with mixed feelings that we announce the liquidation of Tornado Football Club’s ABC Motsepe League status with immediate effect. The decision to liquidate this club was not taken lightly and it is the most difficult decision we have made in a long time.
      

        Through the club, we have managed to create development and employment opportunities for youngsters and many others. We have managed to provide entertainment at the highest level of South African football in the Eastern Cape Province. 
        The club also managed to write a lot of its own history.
      

        However, we feel that keeping the club afloat and competitive has not been easy. We’ve always ensured entertainment for our supporters and football lovers. We strongly believe that Tornado FC should always strive for glory and compete in every season, however, continuing as such has been beyond our means.
      

        We would like to thank all the people of Eastern Cape, especially Mdantsane and East London, and of course, the loyal supporters of the club for their never-ending support over the years. They have remained committed to the club through the good and bad times. We will cherish this support forever. We also extend our gratitude to all those who have teamed up with us over the years.
      
