
# Ritu Phogat aims to be India's first MMA world champion

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:12:22+00:00**

Author: **Hindol Basu**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/more-sports/others/ritu-phogat-aims-to-be-indias-first-mma-world-champion/articleshow/71949598.cms)

NEW DELHI: Remember Ritu Phogat, the young, dynamic and diminutive wrestler from the Phogat household in Balali, Haryana? When she won silver at the U-23 World Wrestling Championships in 2017, Ritu was earmarked by many for bigger achievements. She was seen as one of the hopefuls to win a medal at the Tokyo Olympics.
But earlier this year, Ritu shocked everyone by announcing her decision to quit wrestling and switch to mixed martial arts (MMA). She joined a Singapore-based MMA organization and started preparing for her debut, which is going to take place on November 16 in Beijing. Her opponent will be South Korea's Nam Hee Kim. For the Korean, it'll be her second match, having enjoyed a victorious debut.
Ritu is currently concentrating on improving her strength, agility and speed. She trains twice a day on different martial art forms like Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu and Muay Thai, besides honing her skills in wrestling and boxing.
"I want to win the world championship belt for India. This has never been done before and I want to be the first to win that for my country. Hopefully in the next two years, I can achieve my goal. I am working really hard for that," she told TOI during a conversation from Singapore.
So why did she leave wrestling and pick up MMA, especially when she was on her way to be one of the superstars in women's wrestling?
"I have been following MMA since 2012. I used to watch on YouTube and wondered why India doesn't have a world champion in this sport. Even though I was doing well on the wrestling mat, somewhere at the back of my mind I wanted to do something different, something different from what my sisters were doing. I found my calling in MMA at the start of this year," she said.
