
# Marella Cruises launches brand new USA cruises including Florida and New York

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/cruises/marella-cruises-launches-brand-new-20765368)

Marella Cruises has revealed it will be launching four new cruise holidays to the USA from summer 2021.
The TUI-owned cruise line will offer sailings that include popular ports of call in New York, Charleston, Norfolk (Virginia), Tampa, Key West and Fort Lauderdale, all alongside some seriously sun-soaked destinations like the Bahamas.
All of the sailings will depart from Port Canaveral in Florida, with a choice of either seven or 14 nights, and will be exclusive to cruise ship Marella Discovery.
There are four itineraries; American Dream, Big Apple Adventure, Floridian Favourites, and Sunshine State and Sands.
The new cruises will be available to book on the Marella Cruises website from Thursday 7th November, and passengers will also be able to book return flights from five UK airports to Florida as part of the package.
We take a look at what each cruise holiday will entail below...
 
American Dream: Departing from Port Canaveral, the cruise will visit Charleston in South Carolina, New York and Freeport in the Bahamas.
Big Apple Adventure: Departing from Port Canaveral, this cruise will include ports of calls like New York, Norfolk (in Virginia) and Freeport in the Bahamas.
Floridian Favourites: Departing from Port Canaveral, this cruise visits ports of call such as Tampa and Fort Lauderdale in Florida, as well as Nassau in the Bahamas.
Sunshine State and Sands: Departing from Port Canaveral this cruise will head to Amber Cove in the Dominican Republic, Grand Turk in Turks and Caicos, as well as Key West and Miami in Florida.
 
The new line-up will also see the launch of a repositioning cruise, a 12-night Sunshine and Jazz itinerary which includes three days in New Orleans to explore the vibrant city and discover its iconic jazz scene.
The cruise will call at Montego Bay in Jamaica, Georgetown in Grand Cayman, New Orleans in Louisiana, as well as Tampa, Key West Miami and Port Canaveral in Florida.
Chris Hackney, Managing Director of Cruise for TUI UK & I said: "We’re really excited to be setting sail from the USA, expanding our programme provides an opportunity for cruisers to sample the American Dream, and we’ve ensured there really is something for everyone.
"Whether that’s a visit to Walt Disney World in Florida, an evening in New York, authentic jazz music in New Orleans or a rollercoaster in Busch Gardens.
"Offering our customers more choice and flexibility is at the heart of what we do, which is why customers will also benefit from regional flights from five airports."
