
# Pompeo Denies Former Adviser’s Claim He Stopped Statement Supporting Yovanovitch

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:53:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Talking Points Memo](https://talkingpointsmemo.com/news/pompeo-denies-former-advisers-claim-he-stopped-statement-supporting-yovanovitch)

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Thursday narrowly denied the testimony of a top aide of his who resigned partially out of frustration that the State Department wasn’t willing to publicly support a diplomat who President Donald Trump had attacked.
Michael McKinley had spent decades as a diplomat when Pompeo asked him to be a senior adviser at State Department headquarters, but McKinley resigned after nearly a year in the role, and just a week before testifying in the House’s impeachment inquiry.
McKinley testified that he repeatedly pushed the State Department to release a statement in September supporting the ousted ambassador to Ukraine, Marie Yovanitch, who was recalled after a smear campaign against her led by Rudy Giuliani and others.
Yovanovitch was recalled in May, but a memorandum of President Donald Trump’s July 25 phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was released on Sept. 25 — it revealed that Trump attacked the former ambassador repeatedly during the call. After memorandum was released, McKinley testified, he pushed Pompeo to release a statement supporting Yovanovitch multiple times.
Asked during a press conference why he never released such a statement, Pompeo instead denied the adviser’s testimony.
“It’s not surprising that when Ambassador Yovanovitch returned to the United States that he didn’t raise that issue with me,” the Secretary of State said.
“It shouldn’t surprise anyone that in May when that took place, he didn’t say a thing to me.”
