
# Terry's kit in Smash Ultimate further helps the case that Smash is a fighting game series

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Carter**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/terry-s-kit-in-smash-ultimate-further-helps-the-case-that-smash-is-a-fighting-game-series-571791.phtml)


        [Check out our previous Smash Ultimate DLC coverage: Piranha Plant, Joker, Hero, Banjo.]
      
"Is Smash Bros. a fighter?" has been the "are games art?" of the last 20 years or so, but when we're at the point where Smash is headlining EVO, you know you've made it.
Ryu and Ken also gave us a glimpse at just how much traditional fighting games have influenced the series, and now with Fatal Fury's Terry in the mix, it's even more evident.
Fatal Fury was my first fighting game, though Terry wasn't my first character! That honor goes to his brother Andy, who I've basically never used since. Poor Andy.
Over time I gravitated toward Terry (and Joe), who stuck with me all this time through crossover after crossover. I'm talking King of Fighters, Capcom vs. SNK, SNK Heroines, Fighting EX Layer: you name it. Terry's kit is complete muscle memory at this point. So when I found out that you can use traditional fighting game inputs to trigger Terry's special moves in Smash Ultimate, I was even more floored to try him out.
If you want you can choose to play Terry like a typical Smash character, directional inputs and special button and all. His side special is burning knuckle and crack shoot (forward/backward respectively), his up special is rising tackle (anti-air), down is power dunk and neutral is power wave (his core projectile). It has pretty much everything you'd want, albeit with limitations, as Terry is equipped to handle most situations that the rest of the cast throws at him.
At critical health (more than 100% in stock or 1/3 of his stamina) he queues up better versions of power wave (power geyser) and burn knuckle (buster wolf), which even have their own super commands. His Final Smash (triple wolf) can also hit multiple enemies at first, but primarily rips apart one person: it rules, as most Final Smash moves tend to just favor the latter. It was crazy how quickly I acclimated to Terry having played him nearly every year for 20 years. His rising tackle command (hold down, press up/attack, just like Guile's flash kick) actually worked, which is the exact point where I knew I was in for a wild ride.
