
# Mumbai airport: HC refuses relief to Adani company

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Swati Deshpande**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/mumbai-airport-hc-refuses-relief-to-adani-co/articleshow/71946722.cms)

MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Wednesday declined to provide any immediate interim relief to Adani Properties, Ahmedabad in its legal tussle over a claim to 13.5% shareholding in Mumbai International Airport (MIAL). Justice Anil Menon didn’t restrain Bid Services Division (Mauritius), or BSDML, as sought by Adani, from selling its 13.5% paid-up equity share capital of MIAL to GVK Airport Holdings or to any other party.
The HC was hearing an interim application filed by Adani in its commercial suit against BSDML. The HC, however, allowed Adani’s plea to add GVK’s parent company GVK Airport Developers and its grandparent company GVK Power and Infrastructure as parties to the dispute.
The Adani Group, which had signed a share-purchase agreement with BSDML in March to acquire its 13.5% stake in MIAL, had filed a suit before the HC for execution of the contract. It then sought interim orders to restrain BSDML to sell or create third-party rights in the sale shares to anyone other than the Adani Group company.
The HC was informed that the ‘long stop date’ (deadline) for payment of purchase amount of Rs 1,248 crore and transfer of shares has been extended from September 30 to November 7. The battle is essentially between the Adani Group and the GVK for control of the 13.5% stake currently owned by the South African entity in MIAL.
In the Bombay HC, Adani counsel Darius Khambata offered to deposit the purchase price of Rs 1,248 crore in a no lien interest-bearing escrow account provided BSDML agrees to extend the deadline to February 7, 2020. The BSDML (Bidvest) counsel Janak Dwarkadas, when asked by the HC, didn’t agree to extend the deadline.
GVK in its reply opposed grant of any interim relief to Adani and said it has already filed an application to secure its claim to shares before the arbitral tribunal, which on September 15 gave it time to deposit the purchase price by October 31. GVK counsel Ravi Kadam questioned merits in Adani’s plea before the Bombay HC and said Adani’s right to buy the shares depends on the outcome of the pending arbitration proceedings. The arbitral tribunal hearing is next on November 24.
Since 2006, GVK group owns 50.5% in MIAL. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) owns 26%. Another African entity ACSA Global owns 10%.
Adani said that in January BSDML wished to transfer its 162 million equity shares in MIAL. GVK exercised its Right of First Refusal (ROFR). However, Adani said GVK failed to execute the transaction within the prescribed time. GVK filed an arbitration plea before the Delhi high court seeking to prevent BSDML from selling its shares in MIAL to anyone other than GVK.
On July 1, the Delhi HC dismissed the GVK plea. But in an appeal that same month, the HC appeal bench sent the issue to arbitration and an arbitral panel has been set up in Delhi.
