
# 'A small man': CNN anchor ridicules Rand Paul's call for whistleblower identity to be revealed

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:06:00+00:00**

Author: **Mike Brest**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/a-small-man-cnn-anchor-ridicules-rand-pauls-call-for-whistleblower-identity-to-be-revealed)

CNN's New Day anchor John Berman ridiculed Sen. Rand Paul after the Kentucky Republican called for the identity of the whistleblower at the center of House Democrats' impeachment proceedings to be revealed publicly.
Paul, 56, demanded the media "do your job and print [the whistleblower's] name," while he was speaking at President Trump's rally in Kentucky on Monday night. The president held the "Make America Great Again" rally in Lexington to campaign for Republican Gov. Matt Bevin, who's facing an election on Tuesday.
The hosts of New Day, along with Clinton-era press secretary Joe Lockhart, were critical of Paul's comments during their show Tuesday morning.
“He’s trying to get us to do his dirty work and say the name of the whistleblower, which is illegal,” Alisyn Camerota stated. “If he knows the name, if he thinks he knows the background, I mean, he’s giving all this information that is not proven. There’s no evidence of anything he’s saying. If he knows it, why doesn’t he say it? I’ll tell you why he doesn’t say it. Don’t answer that. Because it’s illegal, and he knows that.”
“He’s a small man,” Berman interjected, adding, “I have to tell you, what he just did there was small and cowardly right there.”
