
# Twitter reacts to Rohit Sharma losing his cool and abusing third umpire for out-not out gaffe

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:11:51+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/twitter-reacts-to-rohit-sharma-losing-his-cool-and-abusing-third-umpire-for-out-not-out-gaffe?utm_medium=rss)


        While Virat Kohli is seen as the “potty mouth” in the current Indian team, Rohit Sharma is trying hard to get a piece of that action on that front as well. Today, after third umpire Anil Chaudhary accidently pushed the wrong button while giving a decision, Rohit was seen mouthing the infamous words.
      
On the last ball of the 13th over, Soumya Sarkar decided that he had had enough and charged down the pitch against Chahal. The Indian spinner read his intentions quite early and unleashed a googly on off stump to take it away from the batsman. Sarkar had come too far down the pitch to even consider turning back and making a run at the crease. Rishabh Pant cooly collected the ball and whipped off the bails. 
As Sarkar made his way back to the dressing room, the umpire stopped him in his tracks because the official in the booth wanted to have a look at it again. Pant had already botched a simple stumping earlier in the innings and with the third umpire checking for the same again, Indian fans would have felt their nerves in a heap again. And they would have turned into an absolute mess, when the screen showed “Not Out” again. 
But the drama wasn’t quite done yet! As Sarkar breathed a sigh of relief and started moving back towards the pitch, he was, once again, stopped and shown the screen that now reflected an “Out”. While it was a simple mistake from the official, Rohit was in no mood for jokes and was seen mouthing an expletive before laughing it out with his teammates and the on field official. 

        This is what happened!
      
