
# Kylie Jenner and Drake are not together despite reports of romance

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:35:28+00:00**

Author: **Entertainment Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2095441/4-kylie-jenner-drake-not-together-despite-reports-romance/)

Kylie Jenner and Drake are in a relationship, but it’s the same relationship they’ve been in for a long time – just friends.
Sources close to both Kylie and American rapper tell TMZ  they are not spending any romantic time together, as other outlets have reported or speculated. Reportedly, the duo have been at some events together, including the rapper’s recent 33rd birthday party, simply because they are pals.
Their friendship has endured despite Drake’s beef with Kylie’s brother-in-law, Kanye West, but sources added there they are in no way, shape or form dating.
According to reports, Kylie currently isn’t seeing anyone at all and has no desire to do so. For the moment, she’s reportedly happy for now just being a mum to one-year old Stormi.
The Kardashian-Jenner star still been spending a lot of time with Travis Scott since their split, cohabiting at her crib and doing fun stuff with their daughter together. Sources confirm they are maintaining a good friendship and plan on a lot of quality family time together during the upcoming holidays.
Drake’s last serious relationship was with 18-year old model Bella Harris. The Passionfruit hitmaker has also been romantically linked to superstar singer Rihanna.
No word if Drake will be hanging with Kylie more too, but if he does, it will apparently only be platonic.
