
# ODM Sues IEBC For Refusing To Release Complete Kibra Voter Register Three Days To Poll

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:59:58+00:00**

Author: **Wycliffe**

Original: [KahawaTungu](https://www.kahawatungu.com/2019/11/04/odm-sues-iebc-kibra-register/)

The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party has taken the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to court for refusing to release a complete register of the Kibra constituency ahead of the November 7 by-election.
Kahawa Tungu, exclusively spoke with Philip Etale, the party Communication Director, who confirmed that the party moved to court on Monday afternoon seeking orders to compel IEBC to release the complete register ahead of the by-election slated for this Thursday.
The ODM party on Thursday last week accused the electoral body of “playing hide and seek games” with the vital document despite making a commitment that it would serve the party with the full register by October 17.
Edwin Sifuna, the ODM Secretary General stated that the register it received from the electoral body didn’t have ID numbers hence “making the whole exercise a charade”.
The commission chairman, Wafula Chebukati, however, stated that IEBC truncated the details for privacy purposes as provided for in the constitution of the land.
“…the Commission has put in place mechanisms to ensure confidentiality in management of the information provided in the Register of Voters and thus availing the Register of Voters cannot, therefore, avail full identification numbers and mobile numbers hence the truncation, ” Chebukati said in a statement.
Read: We’ll Not Be Intimidated, IEBC Rubbishes ODM’s Calls For “Complete” Kibra Voter Register
On Monday, IEBC stated on its social media handles that the Kibra Voter Register was posted at all polling stations as required by the law adding that all campaigns end today at 6PM.
“Voters in Kibra can check their registration details by visiting their polling stations, ” said IEBC.
