
# Middendorp Bites Back At Rulani’s Picasso Comments

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:28:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/middendorp-takes-a-swipe-at-rulani/666965)

Ernst Middendorp appeared to take a swipe at his Orlando Pirates counterpart Rulani Mokwena for his recent comments about the Buccaneers being as good to watch as admiring the iconic Mona Lisa painting. 

        Read: Rulani: 'If You Look At The Numbers' 
      
The Kaizer Chiefs coach, shortly after Amakhosi beat Chippa United 2-0 in an Absa Premiership clash in Port Elizabeth on Wednesday night, responded to a question about preparation for the second successive Soweto Derby in seven days by biting back at Mokwena, who seemed to confuse Spanish artist Pablo Picasso with Italian Leonardo da Vinci, the man who actually painted the Mona Lisa.
Mokwena had told the media after Pirates held Chiefs to a 2-2 draw with a man short, but went on to lose on penalties last weekend: “I felt like I was Pablo Picasso admiring the Mona Lisa from the bench when watching these Orlando Pirates players.”
He had also added that the Buccaneers were tactically superior in that match. This week Middendorp finally had his say…
“I am not going to talk about being tactically superior or somebody talking about paintings from the renaissance or a Spanish painter or an Italian artist. I look into the game and try to figure out what’s good for us to make points. Now it is a very crucial moment to find the right combination for the weekend. I know that Bidvest Wits has a lot of games in hand, even other teams behind us have games in hand. But I don’t use too much mathematics right now. I say don’t celebrate too much and don’t be disappointed too much at this stage of the season,” the Chiefs coach told reporters.   

        Read: 'That Was Enough To Make Him A Bad Goalkeeper'  
      
