
# Reader’s Voice: Watch Out Pirates, Its Payback Time!

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:45:00+00:00**

Author: **SL Social**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/supporters_club/reader-s-voice-watch-out-pirates-its-payback-time/666532)

It has been five years since Kaizer Chiefs last tasted victory in a match against Orlando Pirates and for that reason, Amakhosi fans feel that it is payback time against their eternal rivals.
Ernst Middendorp’s team have been in sublime form this season, managing to pull off some stunning victories. Most notably when they swept aside Mamelodi Sundowns twice in a matter of weeks.
This form has led to SL Supporter @Flipping lyf feeling that now is the time to set things straight against the Buccaneers.

        “
        It’s payback time! The Khosi nation are going to reclaim our bragging against Pirates in style. Back to back wins with the margin of 3-1 and 2-0, watch the space.”
      

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
SL Supporter @Butholakhe Sthole echoes these sentiments and feel that Chiefs were able to overcome a tougher opponent in the form of Sundowns and therefore should make light work of Rhulani Mokwena’s side.
 “Guys please give Pirates a free lesson on Saturday; you surprised Pitso’s side who are a stronger team than Pirates, so you cannot lose to a struggling club! Rise Khosi Rise good luck.”
 Meanwhile, SL Supporter @Honestkhosi feels that the stakes are so high that it could end up costing Mokwena his job, if he fails to beat the men from Naturena.
 “The only way Rhulani can keep his job is to beat Kaizer Chiefs. That's why he attended Kaizer Chiefs vs Sundowns match with a pen and a paper. So that he can write every detail about Kaizer Chiefs and make a proper plan.”
 

        Do you think the Amakhosi steam train can roll over Pirates this time around?
      
