
# NYT: No President Pelosi: ‘Conflict of Interest’ if She Replaced Trump

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:52:05+00:00**

Author: **Penny Starr**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/04/nyt-pelosi-should-not-be-president-conflict-of-interest-to-impeach-someone-she-could-replace/)

The author argued that the law that puts Pelosi second in line behind the vice president should be changed.
The reason? Pelosi is in charge of impeaching the man she could replace.
“In short, it’s a whopping conflict of interest for a lawmaker to be leading an impeachment inquiry that could result in her own ascension to the presidency,” the editorial said.
The Times, of course, is tracking the effort to unseat a duly elected president because it believes it is a good, constitutional idea:
The editorial is informative as to how the House Speaker became second in line, how the law was changed to place cabinet members in line to replace the president and then changed back again:
The editorial explains that the succession law was changed from the Speaker and Senate President Pro Tempore in 1886 to make cabinet members in line to succeed — an “arrangement that lasted 60 years.” 
President Harry Truman argued that the law should be changed back to it’s original state because members of the House and Senate are elected by the people and not appointed by the president. That is still the law today.
The editorial lays out another reason there should never be a President Pelosi:
And it also depends on what “elected” means.
“Donald Trump won his office with about 63 million votes nationwide; Nancy Pelosi won hers with fewer than 300,000,” the editorial said. 
And, “Cabinet members, on the other hand, are handpicked by the president and confirmed by the Senate, which makes them more like a vice president than a member of Congress.
So, the editorial concludes, the law should be changed “tomorrow:”
“Donald Trump’s fate should be decided based on what he has done, not on who might replace him,” the editorial said.

        Follow Penny Starr on 
        
          Twitter
        
      
