
# WhatsApp set to get two new Dark Modes that make the app much easier on the eyes

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:25:56+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/whatsapp-set-two-new-dark-20809932)

With its distinctive lime green and white design, WhatsApp isn’t exactly easy on the eyes.
But the popular messaging app is set to turn to the dark side, with a new report suggesting that it could soon launch two new Dark Modes.
The report, by WABetaInfo, points to evidence in the latest iPhone beta release, which contains a dark theme with two possible configurations.
The first configuration features very dark colours with a black background, while the second features slightly lighter shades of grey.
Both versions also show the text bubbles in dark hues.
 
WABetaInfo explained: “It’s not clear yet if WhatsApp will allow us to choose the configuration that we prefer to use.
“Actually it seems that WhatsApp will automatically choose the configuration, based on the device accessibility settings, but it’s still too soon to say seen that the feature is under development.”
Sadly, it remains unclear when WhatsApp plans to roll out the new dark modes.
However, the fact that they’re featured in the beta version of the app indicates that there’s not long to wait before it’s available for all users!
WhatsApp is one of the few apps yet to include a Dark Mode option for users.
Instagram finally launched its dark mode last month, which changes the background colour of the app window to black.
Adam Mosseri, head of Instagram, announced the update on Twitter.
He wrote: “Starting today, you can use Instagram in dark mode on iOS 13 or Android 10. Turn dark mode on your phone to try it out.”
