
# Deals Spotlight: AT&T Discounts 32GB Apple TV 4K to New Low of $90 (Regular $179) [Update: Sold Out]

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:42:29+00:00**

Author: **Mitchel Broussard**

Original: [MacRumors](https://www.macrumors.com/2019/11/01/deals-spotlight-att-apple-tv/)

AT&T today introduced a new deal on the 32GB Apple TV 4K streaming box, now priced at $90, down from a regular price of $179 at Apple and other major resellers ($89 off). This is the lowest that we've tracked for a new model of the Apple TV 4K, and is well timed because today is also the launch day of Apple's new streaming service Apple TV+.
Note: MacRumors is an affiliate partner with AT&T. When you click a link and make a purchase, we may receive a small payment, which helps us keep the site running. You can get the deal by visiting AT&T's website, adding the Apple TV 4K to your cart, and checking out before the offer expires. AT&T noted that customers will have a 14-day return policy on the device, and purchases are limited to four per customer. With standard shipping, the Apple TV 4K should arrive between November 6 and November 8. Since September 10, Apple has also been bundling one year of Apple TV+ with any purchase of an iPhone, iPad, Apple TV, iPod touch, or Mac. This means that if you take advantage of AT&T's offer today, you'll also be getting one year of Apple TV+ at no extra cost. Our Apple TV+ guide has more information on the service and its shows. Check out our full Deals Roundup for a more detailed look at all of the newest Apple-related sales and bargains happening this week. Update 10:07 a.m. PDT: The 32GB Apple TV 4K has sold out and is now out of stock on AT&T's website. Update 10:24 a.m. PST November 5: AT&T has unfortunately canceled many of these orders, stating "this item flew off our shelves and isn't available anymore." We've reached out to AT&T for any additional information, but have yet to hear back.
