
# Evan Holyfield wins professional boxing debut in just 16 seconds in front of proud dad

Published at: **2019-11-03T01:23:51+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/evan-holyfield-wins-professional-boxing-20800301)

Evan Holyfield got his professional career off to a winning start in just 16 seconds in front of his proud father in Las Vegas.
Five-time world heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield was watching on from ringside as his middle son made a major statement on the undercard of Canelo Alvarez vs Sergey Kovalev.
He has been keen to take a back seat in the career of his son, but he could not help an approving nod as he watched a display which did the family name proud.
The 21-year-old came storming out of the blocks, launching a barrage of punches against opponent Nick Winstead and flooring him after just 16 seconds.
He first stunned Winstead with a quick left hook, before connecting again with an overhand right which sent his opponent onto his heels then putting him down with another left hand.
The fight was instantly waved off amongst protests from Winstead, with Holyfield celebrating a dream start to what he hopes will be a career to match his iconic father.
Super-welterweight Holyfield is being coached by former fighter Maurice Watkins, who has tipped the youngster to emulate his legendary father.
“He can box and he can punch,” Termite told Standard Sport . “He’s got the best of both worlds. He is incredibly fast, one of the fastest boxers I’ve seen and worked with. And he can punch.
Mirror Fighting has launched a new weekly boxing show in association with Betfair in which we analyse the latest big fights, play matchmaker, and preview forthcoming bouts.
Former super-middleweight world champion George Groves provides expert analysis.
To watch the latest show in full, click here.
"Normally when you are fast, you are not a big puncher, and when you are a big puncher, you are not very fast. He’s got both.
"He also has an incredible ability not to get hit. So right off the bat, he’s every boxing trainer’s dream.
“I think he has every ability to do what his dad did and even more."
Evan is the latest Holyfield to make an impact as a professional sportsman.
His brother, Elijah Holyfield, is a running back for the Carolina Panthers in the NFL, currently on their practice squad in his first year since leaving Georgia University to embark upon his professional career.
