
# Leaked Strictly exit enrages fans as surprise couple is booted out

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:25:34+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/leaked-strictly-exit-enrages-fans-20800129)

Strictly viewers have been left reeling again after after the results of Sunday's show were leaked online.
The show is now filmed over one evening - and often spoilers get out on social media.
With fans searching for gossip using the Strictly hashtag on twitter, many have stumbled across the result by accident.
Mirror Online knows who has left the show but won't spoil the result for viewers keen to watch it unfold tomorrow.
 
However some furious fans who have discovered the result have flocked to Twitter in fury. After a number of controversial exits in recent weeks, it doesn't seem like this Sunday's departure will please everyone either.
The competition is heating up and week even produced many big moments.
Karim Zeroual and Amy Dowden soared to the top of the leaderboard after their Quickstep performance - everyone loved it as they rose to the occasion.
At the other end of the table are Emma Barton and Anton du Beke, who finished last on the leaderboard with 22.
But who is leaving? Although of course we will keep tight-lipped, it has already been revealed online.
Those who couldn't resist looking are not happy.
" #StrictlySpoiler #Strictlyresults Why am I not surprised!  #biased " wrote one fan with eye-rolling emojis.
"Absolute dog s**t" put another after discovering the dancers who get the boot.
"Just seen the #StrictlySpoiler - what a f*cking joke. Absolutely livid," another posted on twitter.
" #strictlyspoiler sad to see but I think fair enough" accepted another viewer.

        *Strictly results air tomorrow on BBC One
      
