
# Daily Mirror climate change crisis panel held to find ways to save our planet

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:01:17+00:00**

Author: **Rhian Lubin, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/daily-mirror-climate-change-crisis-20812267)

The climate crisis is everyone’s issue. It’s why the Daily Mirror yesterday held a special climate crisis panel, looking at what we can all do to save our planet.
Chairing the summit at London’s Royal Society was naturalist and TV presenter Chris Packham, who hailed the event as “momentous”.
Here, the panel of scientists and activists explain how we must act to avert a climate catastrophe...
The climate issue is everyone’s issue. Not just readers of the Mirror but people of the world.
This, after many years of campaigning, is a breath of what I hope will be fresh air.
We’ve got traction at the moment but must not just scare everyone to death, so they feel they can’t do anything meaningful.
Everyone has a job to do, empowering ourselves to make a difference.
  
Two words come to mind: irreversibility, and injustice.
Irreversibility, because part of the Antarctic ice sheet could collapse. You can’t grow it back, and undo that sea level rise, for thousands of years. Species under multiple pressures could also be tipped into extinction.
Injustice, because the poor will not be able to defend themselves against more extreme weather and rising seas, or rely on access to food and water.  
Unfortunately, this crisis is huge in every possible way.
The bad outcomes are as bad as elements of nuclear war – millions of deaths, impacts lasting for thousands of years.
To tackle it, we have to change an awful lot – how we get about, how we grow food, generate power, how and what we build.
We’ll need to change how we treat nature, what we do with our land and the waste we create. And everyone must join in to fix things.
Across the world people are already dying from floods, droughts and wildfires made worse by climate change.
And on the whole, it’s the poorest who are hit hardest.
If we carry on burning coal, gas and oil, the situation will get a whole lot worse. But we can fix it – renewable energy is cheap.
We know how to insulate homes. We can make buses, trams and trains reliable.
It just needs determination.
Our life support systems are breaking down. What we do now? We need to act while there is still time to fix this.
Scientists estimate that today’s extinction rate is 1,000 to 10,000 times faster than what is considered normal.
Millions of children, including myself, have been striking from school to demand action. But it is the grown-ups, the people in power, who must lead the fight for our planet... starting now.
Climate is the predominant driver of life on Earth, with climate and biodiversity being closely intertwined.
The ways we live alter our climate, putting the diversity of life on Earth – as well as human wellbeing – at risk.
To beat this crisis, we must meet our obligations to future generations and choose a different path for development, where we work with nature, fostering a world where wildlife thrives.
This emergency is the greatest threat humanity has ever faced.
It is man-made and we have to stop making it worse, or – for the first time – we will face a catastrophe we cannot think, invent or buy our way out of.
 
It will affect 100% of us and everything we love. The future of our children, and our grandchildren, is at stake.
We must act radically, before it’s too late. We cannot afford to wait another second.
 
What’s important is that we respond to this crisis, as it affects everything.
As a nature conservationist, it threatens the nature I love. As a father, it threatens my children’s future and everybody else’s.
Alongside changing lifestyles, we need to invest more in natural climate solutions, including protecting trees locking up carbon today and creating new woods to lock up future carbon emissions.

         
      

         
      
