
# Today on Fox News, Nov. 5 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:11:55+00:00**

Author: **Fox News**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/media/today-on-fox-news-nov-5-2019)


        STAY TUNED
      

        On Fox News: 
      
Fox & Friends, 6 a.m. ET: Donald Trump Jr.; U.S. Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio

        On Fox News Radio:
      
The Fox News Rundown podcast: "Election Day: What today’s Key Races Can Tell Us About 2020" - Tuesday is Election Day in some states and although President Trump’s name is not on the ballot this year, the stakes are still high. The president has already campaigned in Kentucky and Mississippi, states holding their gubernatorial elections today. Later this week he will be campaigning in Louisiana where voters go to the polls on November 16th. All three are red states the president won big in 2016 and all three could be in play for Democrats. FOX News politics reporter Paul Steinhauser discusses how the governors’ races will affect President Trump’s 2020 campaign.
Also on the Rundown: Charles Krauthammer’s influence is still felt in the hallways of Fox News. The late commentator’s unique insight and perspective on politics is missed, not just by his fans, but his peers and even some of the politicians he sometimes criticized. The renowned political analyst and regular Fox News Special Report panelist had a well-deserved reputation for calling out those in power.  A book of Charles’ writing, collected by his son Daniel, highlights some of his great work. On the Fox News Rundown, Fox News chief political anchor Bret Baier sits down with Daniel Krauthammer to discuss Charles’s legacy and what he’d make of this moment of history.
Plus, commentary by Townhall editor and FOX News contributor Katie Pavlich.

        Want the Fox News Rundown sent straight to your mobile device? Subscribe through Apple Podcasts, Google Play, and Stitcher.
      
The Brian Kilmeade Show, 9 a.m. ET: Special guests include: Allen West, former Florida congressman; Chris Stirewalt, Fox News politics editor; and more.
