
# Sadio Mane's relentless talent is thankfully more accomplished than his terrible theatrics

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:31:07+00:00**

Author: **Andy Dunn, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/andy-dunn/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/sadio-manes-relentless-talent-thankfully-20798258)

It is a good job Sadio Mane’s football is a lot more accomplished than his diving.
And that is pretty darn good, don’t forget.
Remember the match-winning penalty his spectacular collapse earned at Anfield against Leicester at the start of last month?
In a thunderously good contest at Villa Park, he was it at again although he was not at his most convincing in that department.
More of that later.
But there was nothing fake, nothing false, nothing phoney about another outstanding individual footballing display from a player who churns them out with startling regularity.
He is a player of such relentless intelligence, it is a shame he cannot resist the pull of the theatrics.
The dart towards Trent Alexander-Arnold’s added-time corner was typically bright, the headed execution brilliant.
Such is the eye-catching excellence of Mane with the ball at his feet, it is so easy to forget his aerial prowess even though there is a thick catalogue of evidence.
This was a beauty to win a game that looked to be slipping away from Liverpool until Mane – who else? – sent over a late, deep, beautiful cross and Andrew Robertson headed an equaliser.
No wonder Mane was paraded as the hero in front of the delirious travelling support.
And they will not be concerned by his reputation for tumbling but maybe it is time for Jurgen Klopp to have a word.
Mane is on his way to trademarking the just-been-electrocuted move to the deck, his latest execution coming when Frederic Guilbert brushed his back. Really lovely guy, really wonderful footballer, but a diver.
At least Jon Moss was not hoodwinked, although if any top-flight referee had bought this particular parody of a tumble, we really would be in serious trouble.
But however comparatively trivial you consider a failed Mane plunge to be, it renders managers’ complaints about officialdom and VAR pretty much redundant.
Whinge about this, whinge about that, but say nothing about your own players’ systematic attempts to con referees.
So if you are what seems to be the wrong end of a suspect VAR decision, tough.
The ruling out of Roberto Firmino’s first-half effort gained instant notoriety thanks to the Premier League’s official explanation that the Brazilian’s armpit had strayed offside.
But the ­assistant referee had flagged, it was a close call and it went the way of the defending side. As they can do. So why the big deal?
And as for this nonsense about taking the emotion out of the game, give me strength.
There was a fair old roar when Trezeguet knocked in Villa’s goal and the same fair old roar when VAR confirmed it was legal.
That is double the emotion in my book. VAR giving VFM. What’s not to like?
Seriously, there is clearly a debate to be had on VAR but it was a fairly spurious topic here.
This was a cracking occasion and while the manner of the defeat was cruel on a Villa who defended magnificently and broke with great purpose, it was certainly not an ill-deserved win for Liverpool.
Quite simply, they are a team who have forgotten how to lose in the Premier League.
And while Klopp is right to wonder if his resources will become stretched as the fixture demands grow, he still has players who can make an impact from the bench.
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, in particular, and Divock Origi made a difference as Liverpool chased the game with their non-stop ­invention.
But Mane was the main man again. He really is a player to ­savour. And if he could cut out those theatrics, he would be even more of a player to ­savour.
