
# Have You Seen Her? Family Prays for Safe Return of Missing Clark Atlanta Student Alexis Crawford as Police Release New Details

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:16:30+00:00**

Author: **Tanasia Kenney**

Original: [Atlanta Black Star](https://atlantablackstar.com/2019/11/04/have-you-seen-her-family-prays-for-safe-return-of-missing-clark-atlanta-student-alexis-crawford-as-police-release-new-details/)

The family of an Atlanta college student is pleading for her safe return after the 21-year-old vanished nearly a week ago.
Alexis Crawford hasn’t been seen or heard from since Oct. 30. Relatives said Crawford, a fourth-year student a Clark Atlanta University, is from Athens and was last seen in the Atlanta / Fulton County area.
“To all of my friends and Cornerstone Church family, please be praying for Alexis’ safe return, and peace and comfort for her mom, siblings, and other family members as we anxiously await her return,” a family member wrote on Facebook. “Jesus, I know you’re able to fix this Father! Please bring her home.”
On Monday, Atlanta police released a timeline of the events leading up to the young woman’s disappearance.
According to a missing person’s report obtained by Atlanta Black Star, Crawford’s mother, Tammy Crawford, said she last spoke to her daughter last Wednesday, adding that Alexis “seemed to be in good spirits” and was laughing during their conversation.
Crawford’s sister, Monica Wright, told police the family had all spoken to her around 2:30 that afternoon during a FaceTime call. Monica said Alexis, 21, asked if she could send her some money through Cash App. Their father obliged and Wright completed the transaction, the report states.
A second sister, Alexandria Crawford, said she last communicated with Alexis at approximately 8:44 p.m. Her sister asked about her plans for the weekend, to which Alexandria replied “nothing” and Alexis didn’t respond after that.
Police also spoke with Crawford’s roommate, who said the two weren’t on speaking terms because of a previous incident. Despite their dispute, the roommate said she agreed to take Crawford to a nearby liquor store after Alexis asked her.
The two arrived to the store at 11:30 p.m., where the young woman said Crawford purchased a bottle of tequila before riding back to their near-campus apartment. The roommate reported last seeing Crawford at 12:30 a.m. before she (the roommate) turned in for the night.
When she awoke the next morning, the young woman said Crawford was gone, noting that the front door was locked and that Crawford was not in her bedroom or the living room. The police report states that the missing woman’s bedroom was in the same condition it had been in since Oct. 26, when a “separate incident” occurred.
Authorities didn’t elaborate on what the incident was, but said Alexis told friends she “wasn’t comfortable sleeping in there and had been sleeping in the living room.”
Police also said Crawford hasn’t been to work at Taco Bell since Oct. 29. Her phone, ID and debit card were missing from the apartment.
The young woman’s relatives, including her brothers, sisters, aunts and father, held a news conference at Atlanta police headquarters Monday, where they pleaded for the public’s help in finding Alexis. Rev. Markel Hutchins, a local activist, spoke on the family’s behalf and called on the people of Atlanta to come forward with any information they had.
He said Crawford, a fun-loving family girl, was living off campus while attending the nearby HBCU and had “recently experienced some things that no young woman should never have to experience.”
The family didn’t elaborate, but said the college student had disappeared under what they described as a “difficult set of circumstances.”
“If you’ve heard anything that’s gossip or you believe is rumor … please come forward,” Hutchins entreated. 
The young woman’s social media activity suggests she was online a few hours before she vanished. According to police, Crawford posted on Instagram at 9:03 p.m. and replied to a group chat with laughing emojis a short time later.
Relatives, who reported Crawford as missing on Nov. 1, say she is 5 feet 5 and weighs about 140 pounds. She is African-American with dark hair and dark eyes, and was last seen wearing a black shirt / hoodie, a cheetah print head scarf and faux lashes.
She also has a mole under her right eye, family members say.
Authorities contacted Grady Memorial Hospital to see if Crawford was there or if they had any Jane Does, but no luck.
Crawford’s father Bobby Wright made an emotional plea Monday, and vowed not to leave the city until his daughter was found safe.
“Just come home,” he said, holding back tears. “I love you. Just come home.”
Anyone with information on Crawford’s disappearance or her whereabouts are asked to contact the Atlanta Police Department’s missing persons unit at 404 546-4235.
Watch more in the clip below.
