
# Burna Boy wins ’Best Africa Act’ at MTV EMAs (Full List of Winners)

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:33:30+00:00**

Author: **Jayne Augoye**

Original: [Premium Times Nigeria](https://www.premiumtimesng.com/entertainment/music/360910-burna-boy-wins-best-africa-act-at-mtv-emas-full-list-of-winners.html)

Serial hitmaker, Burna Boy, has been announced as the winner of the ’Best Africa Act’ award at the 2019 MTV Europe Music Awards.
Burna, who was nominated alongside fellow Nigerian, Teni the Entertainer, South Africa’s Prince Kaybee and Nasty C, Harmonize from Tanzania and Togo’s duo TooFan, won the award at a star studded event held in Seville, Spain on Sunday.
With his 2019 MTV EMA win, Burna Boy joins an exclusive list of Nigerian artistes who have won the much coveted international honour.
Past Nigerian winners of the MTV EMA Best Africa Act award include 2Baba Idibia, D’Banj, Tiwa Savage and Davido.
The 2019 MTV EMA awards show opened with pop superstar Dua Lipa delivering the first global stage performance of her new song ’Don’t Start Now’, joined by a massive yellow wall of dancers.
Following the performance, show host Becky G appeared in her first of many costumes to partake in a hilarious bilingual dialogue with herself that was a nod to the outstanding year in women-led and Latin music.
Twenty two-year-old Kevin Doe from Sierra Leone who is a self-taught engineer and entrepreneur was recognised as one of the 2019 MTV EMA Generation Change Award winners.
The “MTV EMA Generation Change Award” returned a second year to elevate and empower the fearless, original young people who are changing the world using music, creativity and innovation.
Five dynamic changemakers from around the globe were presented with the award during the “2019 MTV EMA” red carpet pre-show.
The winners are among a generation of young people who are tackling the world’s toughest problems – including, climate change, economic imbalance and racial injustice.
Highlights from the show included MTV EMA Host Becky G teaming up with Senegalese-American superstar Akon for the first global performance of their reggaeton smash “Como No.”
The duo rolled down the runway-like stage on gliding carnival floats. The procession was marked with an explosion of colour, 54 dancers and a blend of instruments in a standout moment.
Legendary rock group Green Day delighted thousands of hardcore fans with an epic performance of their new single “Father of All” and punk classic “Basket Case.”
The first-ever MTV EMA Rock Icon winner Liam Gallagher closed the show with a breathtaking performance of his new single “Once” and anthemic hit “Wonderwall” complete with string instruments and a band. The moment was a nod to Gallagher’s classic rock and roll style.
Additionally, MTV celebrated all the local EMA winners from different countries around the globe, from Nigeria, Spain and Latin America .
Thirteen of the winners in attendance from their home countries were brought onto the stage for a tremendous in-show moment that showcased a truly global celebration of talent.See complete list of winners and performances below:
FULL LIST OF “2019 MTV EMA” WINNERS*indicates winner
BEST AFRICA ACT*Burna Boy (Nigeria)Prince Kaybee (South Africa)TooFan (Toga)Nasty C (South Africa)Teni (Nigeria)Harmonize (Tanzania)
BEST VIDEOAriana Grande thank u, nextBillie Eilish bad guyLil Nas X Old Town Road (Remix) ft. Billy Ray CyrusRosalía, J Balvin Con Altura ft. El Guincho*Taylor Swift ME! ft. Brendon Urie of Panic! At The Disco
BEST ARTISTAriana GrandeJ BalvinMiley Cyrus*Shawn MendesTaylor Swift
BEST SONGAriana Grande 7 rings*Billie Eilish bad guyLil Nas X Old Town Road (Remix) ft. Billy Ray CyrusPost Malone, Swae Lee SunflowerShawn Mendes, Camila Cabello Señorita
BEST COLLABORATIONBTS, Halsey Boy With LuvLil Nas X, Billy Ray Cyrus Old Town Road (Remix)Mark Ronson, Miley Cyrus Nothing Breaks Like a Heart*Rosalía, J Balvin Con Altura ft. El GuinchoShawn Mendes, Camila Cabello SeñoritaThe Chainsmokers, Bebe Rexha Call You Mine
BEST NEWAva Max*Billie EilishLewis CapaldiLil Nas XLizzoMabel
BEST POPAriana GrandeBecky GCamila Cabello*HalseyJonas BrothersShawn Mendes
BEST LIVEAriana Grande*BTSEd SheeranP!NKTravis Scott
BEST ROCK*Green DayImagine DragonsLiam GallagherPanic! At The DiscoThe 1975
BEST HIP-HOP21 SavageCardi BJ. Cole*Nicki MinajTravis Scott
BEST ALTERNATIVE*FKA TwigsLana Del ReySolangetwenty one pilotsVampire Weekend
BEST ELECTRONICCalvin HarrisDJ SnakeMarshmello*Martin GarrixThe Chainsmokers
BEST PUSH*Ava MaxBillie EilishCNCOH.E.R.Jade BirdJuice WRLDKiana LedéLauvLewis CapaldiLizzoMabelRosalía
BEST WORLD STAGEBebe Rexha Isle of MTV Malta 2019Hailee Steinfeld Isle of MTV Malta 2018*Muse Bilbao, Spain 2018The 1975 Lollapalooza Paris Festival 2019twenty one pilots Lollapalooza Paris Festival 2019
BEST LOOK*HalseyJ BalvinLil Nas XLizzoRosalía
BIGGEST FANSAriana GrandeBillie Eilish*BTSShawn MendesTaylor Swift
BEST US ACTAriana GrandeBillie EilishLil Nas XLizzo*Taylor Swift
BEST UK ACTLewis CapaldiDaveMabelEd Sheeran*Little Mix
EMA GENERATION CHANGE HONOREESAlfredo “Danger” Martinez, 33, MexicoShiden Tekle, 20, UKLisa RanRan Hu, 20, ChinaKelvin Doe, 22, Sierra LeoneJamie Margolin, 17, USA
FULL PERFORMANCE LISTDua Lipa – “Don’t Start Now”Mabel – “Don’t Call Me Up”Niall Horan – “Nice to Meet Ya”Akon feat. Becky G – “Como No”Green Day – “Father of All,” Basket Case”Halsey – “Graveyard”Ava Max – “Torn,” “Sweet but Psycho”Rosalía – “Di Mi Nombre”NCT 127 – “Highway to Heaven”Becky G – “24/7,” “Sin Pajama,” “Mayores”Liam Gallagher – “Once,” “Wonderwall”
