
# Six-try New Zealand prove much too good for Wales in bronze play-off

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:17:56+00:00**

Author: **Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/six-try-new-zealand-prove-much-too-good-for-wales-in-bronze-play-off)

Warren Gatland’s final game as Wales head coach ended in defeat as New Zealand emphatically won the World Cup bronze medal at Tokyo Stadium. The All Blacks’ 40-17 triumph consigned Wales to a fourth-place finish for the second time in three World Cup campaigns under Gatland.
It also extended New Zealand’s winning run against Wales to 31 Tests, having not lost in the fixture since 1953. Gatland’s 12-year reign, highlighted by four Six Nations titles, three Grand Slams and two World Cup semi-final appearances, could not find a fairytale finish.
New Zealand had the game sewn up by half-time through wing Ben Smith’s try double, plus touch downs for prop Joe Moody and full-back Beauden Barrett, with fly-half Richie Mo’unga kicking four conversions. Wales countered through Hallam Amos’ clever try and five points from Rhys Patchell, but centre Ryan Crotty’s try and another Mo’unga conversion early in the second-half finished them off before Mo’unga added a late touchdown.
Wing Josh Adams scored a second Wales try, though, giving him seven in the tournament and breaking Shane Williams’ Wales record for one World Cup campaign that he set 12 years ago. Dan Biggar converted, leaving an under-strength Wales to take considerable comfort from a battling display that augers well for their future under Gatland’s successor Wayne Pivac.
Gatland made nine changes for his final game in charge, with injuries sidelining players like Leigh Halfpenny, George North and Aaron Wainwright, while wing Owen Lane made a World Cup debut and lock Adam Beard also started. All Blacks boss Steve Hansen, who is also standing down after the tournament, included the likes of centre Sonny Bill Williams, wing RiekoIoane and flanker Sam Cane.

        (Continue reading below…)
      
