
# Eddie Jones ‘massively disappointed’ after England’s World Cup final loss

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:06:00+00:00**

Author: **By Press Association**

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/sport/eddie-jones-massively-disappointed-after-englands-world-cup-final-loss-961375.html)

Eddie Jones says that England are going to be “kicking stones for four years” following their comprehensive World Cup final defeat against South Africa.
England’s 32-12 loss to an inspired Springboks side equalled the second-heaviest defeat in Rugby World Cup final history.
But head coach Jones had no complaints on a day when South Africa dominated every critical area – notably the scrum – and took their chances.
Fly-half Handre Pollard kicked 22 points, while wings Makazole Mapimpi and Cheslin Kolbe scored late tries to destroy England’s bid for a first world title since 2003.
“You can have the most investigative debrief of your game and you still don’t know what was wrong,” Jones said. “It just happens sometimes.
“It’s not a good day for it to happen.
“We are going to be kicking stones for four years, and it is hard to kick stones for four years, so we are massively disappointed.
“That wasn’t the outcome we expected. They were worthy winners, they played very well and were too good for us on the day.
“We struggled to get into the game, and when we had opportunities we didn’t take them. It was just one of those days when South Africa were too good for us.”

        Woodward: “No doubt, the better team won”
      
England lost prop Kyle Sinckler to a third-minute head injury, and his replacement Dan Cole was given a torrid time by opposite number Tendai Mtawarira.
