
# Trump can't shut off lightbulb standards, states and environmentalists say in lawsuit

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:37:29+00:00**

Author: **Abby Smith**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/energy/trump-cant-shut-off-light-bulb-standards-states-and-environmentalists-say-in-lawsuit)

The Trump administration’s refusal to enforce stronger energy efficiency standards for lightbulbs is lighting up a legal battle.
More than a dozen state attorneys general and several environmental groups sued Monday to block the Department of Energy from reversing an Obama regulation that would expand the types of lightbulbs covered under energy efficiency limits to include everyday and specialty lightbulbs. Opponents say the administration’s move violates the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, which says the Energy Department cannot backtrack on or weaken efficiency limits.
The lightbulb efficiency standards were initially crafted in bipartisan legislation signed by President George W. Bush in 2007 and would have required around a 65% efficiency improvement in general service lamps.
“[W]e filed this lawsuit to block the Department of Energy from pushing a foolish agenda that prioritizes out-dated, polluting technology over the needs of the people and our environment,” said California Attorney General Xavier Becerra, who led 16 states and the city of New York in the filing. “We can’t afford to turn our back on progress.”
The decision from the Trump administration not to implement stricter efficiency standards is one of a number of actions by the Energy Department to relax or alter limits set during the Obama administration.
The Energy Department has also separately proposed not to update efficiency limits for incandescent lightbulbs — plans that have already garnered significant opposition, as efficiency groups say more efficient LED lightbulbs are ultimately cheaper for consumers.
“[T]he United States will become the dumping ground for the inefficient incandescent and halogen models already banned in Europe and being phased out by countries around the world,” Kit Kennedy, senior director of the Natural Resources Defense Council’s climate and clean energy program, said in a statement. The group sued along with a number of other environmental organizations.
