
# The One-Hit Wonders Of The 2010s

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:00:06+00:00**

Author: **Chris DeVille**

Original: [Stereogum](https://www.stereogum.com/2056712/2010s-one-hit-wonders/franchises/2010s-in-review/)

What constitutes a one-hit wonder? It seems like it should be cut and dry, but the designation can be pretty arbitrary, with gut feelings often trumping objective data. The “one-hit wonder” label can sometimes befall an artist with a robust catalog, whose fans will inevitably insist their fave does not deserve to be categorized as such despite most of the public only identifying them with a singular smash.
Consider: Psy’s “Gangnam Style” follow-up “Gentleman” made it all the way to #5 on Billboard’s Hot 100. Statistically speaking, he has two hits. But nobody thinks to themselves, “Oh yeah, Psy, the guy who made ‘Gentleman.'” I doubt many people even remember he released another song after “Gangnam Style.” I declare him a one-hit wonder. Foster The People have been all over alternative radio this decade and even had a song climb to #42 on the Hot 100 last year, and yet somehow the only reasonable conclusion is that “Pumped Up Kicks” is their only song. I suspect something similar will happen with Lil Nas X, where no one remembers “Panini” despite its considerable tenure in the top 10, but only time will tell whether Mr. “Old Town Road” has more hits in him.
On the other hand, although most people identify Fetty Wap with “Trap Queen,” the song’s success made him quite a presence in pop music for a moment there; his own top 10 hits “My Way” and “679” were only two of the many tracks his voice anointed in 2015 and 2016. “Trap Queen” is merely Fetty’s signature song. Maybe he’s a one-album wonder, but not a one-hit wonder. Furthermore, what to make of Lorde and Fun., both of whom are basically two-hit wonders despite their deep discographies? What about Meghan Trainor and Hozier and Iggy Azalea and even Mark Ronson, all of whom are mostly associated with a particular song? Mostly, we’re going to avoid them here, even if “All About That Bass” and “Take Me To Church” and “Fancy” and “Uptown Funk” tower over the rest of their discographies.
As you can see, deciding who qualifies as a one-hit wonder is complicated business — the kind of business that seems like it can get your Twitter mentions flooded with profoundly tedious hairsplitting from the “actually” brigade and death threats from various touchy (and probably very small) fan armies. Nevertheless, no retrospective on a decade in music is complete without rounding up those artists who scored one freak hit and announcing, “Remember them?” So here, start remembering, and do not under any circumstances @ me.
