
# Kolkata to host IPL players' auction on December 19

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:40:37+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/kolkata-to-host-ipl-players-auction-on-december-19?utm_medium=rss)


        The IPL governing council, under the chairmanship of Brijesh Patel, has decided in a meeting on Tuesday that Kolkata will host the players' auction on December 19. As per the tournament rules, the franchises are allotted a total of 85 crores per team as the spending limit for the auction.
      
Bangalore has been a traditional venue for the IPL auction, majorly down to the cool weather conditions in wintertime, hosted the auction until the 2018 season before it was moved out to Jaipur for the first time. However, the 2020 auction will be hosted in the "City of Joy" Kolkata as the governing council, under the chairmanship of Brijesh Patel, has decided the move.
"The IPL auction will be in Kolkata on December 19. It's a departure from the traditional venue of Bengaluru," an IPL governing council member said on conditions of anonymity after the meeting at the BCCI headquarters in Mumbai.
Unlike last year, when the tournament started early in March so as to accommodate time for the World Cup, this year's main tournament will, most probably, be starting on April 1 and will continue for 60 days so as to reduce the number of day matches in the competition.
For the auction, Rs 85 crore has been earmarked for every team, which is a three crore increase from the previous 82 cr season in 2019. As of now, Delhi Capitals have the biggest balance - Rs 8.2 crore, followed by Rajasthan Royals at Rs 7.15 crore and Kolkata Knight Riders at Rs 6.05 crore. As a matter of fact, this year's auction is the last one before the team prepares themselves for the mega auction in 2021.
