
# Men Are More Fond of Their Exes Than Women, Says Study

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Matt Shea**

Original: [AskMen](https://www.askmen.com/news/dating/study-finds-men-are-more-fond-of-their-exes-than-women.html)

Breakfast with the ex. It’s a post-break-up tradition.
And why not? You guys spent a big chunk of your lives together. You were friends first, lovers second. You have a lot in common. And all those other things you tell yourself. Why not catch up every now and then?
RELATED: Should You Stay Friends With an Ex? Experts Weigh In
But here’s the thing. Your glowing memories of her might be shaded by the difficult times, but new research suggests she’s even less into giving you a glowing reference. The study, published in the journal Social Psychological and Personality Science found that, contrary to popular perception, men tend to view their ex-partners more fondly than women view theirs.
So maybe cancel breakfast. And then we can let you know what’s going on.
Surprised by this result? Because a survey attached to the study showed that most of its participants were too. Only 24 percent expected men to look on their exes more favorably than women do. The researchers themselves anticipated there would be no difference between genders.
To arrive at this result, researchers enlisted 295 people who had been in a heterosexual relationship for at least four months and had broken up with their partner within the last five years. Participants then noted on an 18-item Ex-Partner Attitudes Scale how much they agreed with statements such as “My ex-partner has many positive traits,” “I avoid touching my ex-partner” and “When I think about my ex-partner, I get angry.”
And the researchers found that men tended to have more positive attitudes towards ex-partners than women did.
An additional survey of 612 people reproduced the result and looked to gain additional insights by asking questions about relationships, coping style, attitudes towards love and sex, and reasons for breaking up.
Answers suggested men received more emotional support during their previous relationship than women. They were also more into experimenting with other sexual partners. Which led the researchers to think that men perhaps look more fondly on there exes because a) they don’t want to walk away from the emotional support they received during a relationship and b) they’re hoping breakfast with the ex might lead to sex with the ex.
“Let’s say that men might be open for more sexual intimacy, more than women might be,” lead author Ursula Athenstaedt, a social psychology professor at the University of Graz in Austria, told Today. “But it could also be that they are simply missing the person who had supported them well during the relationship, and thus appreciate the friendship.”
As for your former better half, the study found that she’s likely less fond of you but better at dealing with a break-up, and better at developing coping strategies such as seeking support from friends. Very sensible. Men’s coping strategies? Excessive work, excessive booze and excessive rebounding. 
Also, while men have absolutely no idea why the relationship broke up, women “might have found good reason to break up the relationship and, thus, blame the breakup on their ex-partner,” Athenstaedt told Today. Oh man.
And finally, pining for your ex will likely affect your next relationship, meaning your next entanglement will be colored by your inability to get over the last one. 

        You Might Also Dig:
      
News Career & Money Dating Entertainment Food & Booze Health Home & Auto Style & Fashion Tech Black Friday Sex Sex Positions Sex Tips Sex Toys & Games Sexual Experiences Sexual Health Dating Dating Advice Dating Experiences Best Online Dating Sites Relationship Advice Grooming Fragrances Hair Shaving Skin Style Accessories Fashion Advice Fashion Trends Shopping Underwear Watches Fitness Health Mental Health Nutrition Weight Loss Workout Gear Hobby Home Tech Toys Travel Work Man Skills Auto Essential Home Random Survival Deals Health Deals Home Deals Style Deals Tech Deals Career & Money Career Money Productivity Self-Improvement Home & Auto Auto Home Parenting Pets Tools Gifting Anniversaries Birthdays Father's Day Holidays Mother's Day Valentine's Day Weddings Reviews Best Subscription Services Classes Meal Kits Products Food & Booze Booze Food Entertainment Celebs Guy Perspective Media Music Sports Travel TV & Film AskMen on Facebook AskMen on Twitter AskMen on Flipboard AskMen on Google News Top Stories 49 Unique Birthday Gifts for Him Best Back Exercises With Dumbbells Best Electric Shavers Best Free Dating Sites Best Sex Positions to Improve Your Sex Life The Best Sex Toys for Couples © 2019 Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AskMen, Become a Better Man, Big Shiny Things, Mantics and guyQ are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. Media Kit Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Statement IGN PCMag Offers.com Geek ExtremeTech Toolbox SpeedTest
