
# Inside South Africa's World Cup celebrations as Faf de Klerk meets Prince Harry in his pants

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:23:13+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/inside-south-africas-world-cup-20799597)

What would you do if you had just sweat through 80 minutes of brutal action to win the Rugby World Cup?
Chill with the family? Quiet pint in the dressing room with your triumphant teammates? Or how about stripping down to your pants, drinking booze out the trophy and then meet royalty?
Welcome to the South African dressing room after their final victory over England in Japan.
After Handre Pollard's six flawless penalties, Makazole Mapimpi and Cheslin Kolbe's tries, the final whistle on the 32-12 victory, and the Springbok's first black captain Siya Kolisi had raised the Webb Ellis Cup amid a background of golden streamers came the party.
Flamboyant scrum half Faf de Klerk, along with his long flowing golden locks, led the celebrations in the roomy Yokohama Stadium changing rooms.
De Klerk quickly stripped down to his underwear, classily emblazoned with the South African national flag, filled the World Cup trophy up with champagne.
His chugging is accompanied by cries of "buffalo" and music blaring out of the speaker system.
The table has a variety of food; from chicken wings to pizza - officially the food of champions, the food of three time champions to be precise.
But the main thing you notice is the smiles. The smiles of 23 South African players plus support staff and friends.
Pieter Steph du Toit joins the Underwear Club, while there are photos being taken wherever you look - these are memories to be cherished.
Those beams are joined by the congratulatory, if polite, presence of Prince Harry - who jetted in for the final as patron of the RFU.
He naturally made a beeline to de Klerk and his budgie smuglers where he shook his hand and had a quick chat before moving around the rest of the dressing room.
De Klerk, who plays in the Premiership for Sale Sharks said: "It's mixed emotions but obviously I'm unbelievably happy, so glad we can do it for the country and for ourselves. It means a lot to us."
"We just exploited them out wide a bit. We've got great wingers and great outside backs and in the second half we just said our backline must take their backline on and they came through.
"And once again a massive performance from our boys up front. They gave me great ball and they give the backs so much time on attack."
"Since I have been alive I have not seen South Africa like this," Kolisi added. "It was like in '95."
