
# Rassie Erasmus was on the cusp of quitting as Springboks coach after a run of average results

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:14:05+00:00**

Author: **Tom Vinicombe**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/rassie-erasmus-was-on-the-cusp-of-quitting-as-springboks-coach-after-a-run-of-average-results)

South Africa’s inspirational coach may not have been on board to lead the Springboks to their third-ever World Cup win if results had panned out slightly differently in 2018.
Rassie Erasmus revealed earlier this week that he seriously considered resigning as head coach of the now-world champions last year on the back of a string of defeats.
Erasmus took over as head coach of the Springboks in March of 2018. The previous coach, Allister Coetzee, was sacked after a disastrous run of eight games which saw South Africa record just two wins (against Italy, and by a point against France).
With not a lot of time to prepare before 2019’s World Cup, Erasmus was straight into his work preparing the flailing national side. It didn’t start on the highest of notes, however.
“We had a lot of small targets where we tried to simulate matches, as there was only 18 Test matches before the World Cup,” Erasmus said.

        Click here to see the video
      
“We lost to Australia and Argentina, and if we didn’t win in Wellington, I would have resigned.
“I have never lost three games in a row as a coach and if I did that I don’t deserve to be a Springbok coach. We played New Zealand in Wellington and that was important, as if we lost it I wouldn’t be here,” he said after the final.
What eventuated was South Africa’s first win on New Zealand soil since the Springboks whitewashed the All Blacks in 2009. A year later, they recorded a draw at the same ground in Wellington.
That 2018 victory was a massive turning point for South Africa, who since recorded 13 wins and a draw from 18 matches.
“We were terrible at [maintaining consistency] in 2018 – we were up and down – but this year we’ve played 12 and lost one [and drawn one] so we have got that consistency back. And yes, we’ve got the World Cup here, but going into next year if you lose the first Test people forget about the World Cup and that’s not where we want to be,” said Erasmus.
