
# Star Wars The Rise of Skywalker almost had huge reveal for Carrie Fisher's Leia

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:16:47+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/film/star-wars-rise-skywalker-almost-20831041)

The Rise of Skywalker is set to bring the Skywalker saga to an end.
However, it has now been revealed that the late Carrie Fisher almost paid a much more pivotal role in Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker in her iconic role of Leia Organa, before she sadly passed away in 2016.
Carrie Fisher's brother Todd Fisher revealed to Yahoo Entertainment : "She was going to be the big payoff in the final film. She was going to be the last Jedi, so to speak. That’s cool right?"
The interview revealed that Leia would have wielded a lightsaber as a full-fledged Jedi warrior.
He also revealed how confident he was in director J.J. Abrams adapting the role in the wake of the actress' death.
He added: “The truth is that J.J. Abrams was great friends with Carrie... he had an extraordinary sense of love for her."
 
Fisher also revealed: "They had eight minutes of footage. They grabbed every frame and analyzed it... and then reverse-engineered it and [got] it into the story the right way. It’s kind of magical."
On how well this new role for General Leia Organa works, Fisher reveals he is very happy with the "beautiful" way they have managed to provide a new "payoff" to the character.
He explained: "This is, in its own way, a payoff. ... It’s Carrie talking to us all from beyond. The beautiful thing about the concept of the Force is that there is no real death; you just exist in another dimension.
"So Carrie is looking down or sideways or wherever and is still part of us. To be able to see that — it’s magical stuff only in the movies."
Other figures to appear from the original Star Wars trilogy in the new instalment include Mark Hamill as Luke Skywalker, Anthony Daniels as C-3PO, Billy Dee Williams as Lando Calrissian, and Ian McDiarmid as Emperor Palpatine.
It's sure to be an emotional final instalment.

        Star Wars The Rise of Skywalker is released on December 19, 2019.
      

        
          Are you glad they have found a way to include Carrie Fisher in The Rise of Skywalker? Let us know in the comments below.
        
      
