
# Sevilla and Atlético de Madrid ended the game with a 1-1 draw at Ramón Sánchez Pizjuán

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:34:04+00:00**

Author: **SPORT.es**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/laliga/sevilla-and-atletico-de-madrid-ended-the-game-with-a-1-1-draw-at-ramon-sanchez-pizjuan-7711932)

Sevilla and Atlético de Madrid draw 1-1 on Saturday at Ramón Sánchez Pizjuán. Sevilla and Atlético de Madrid arrived at this challenge after drawing their last game. Sevilla faced the encounter with a desire to add more points to their locker after a draw against Valencia (1-1) while Atlético de Madrid scored a 1 draw against Alavés, adding a point in the last match played of the competition. Following today's result, Sevilla and Atlético de Madrid are tied on 21 points sitting in position 4 and 3 respectively after 12 matches.
Sevilla started well in the first half, with a goal from Franco Vazquez in the 28th minute, thereby seeing the first half to a 1-0.
Atlético de Madrid took the lead in the second half, thanks to a goal from Álvaro Morata in the 60th minute, finalising the game with a 1-1.
As for substitutions, both coaches used full substitutions. For Sevilla Joan Jordan, Chicharito and Alejandro Pozo came on for Oliver Torres, Luuk de Jong and Éver Banega, while Atlético brought on Diego Costa, Santiago Arias and Héctor Herrera to replace Thomas Lemar, Kieran Trippier and Renan Lodi.
The referee booked Franco Vazquez, Oliver Torres, Joan Jordan and Nemanja Gudelj from Sevilla, while for Atlético de Madrid Renan Lodi, Thomas Partey and Ángel Correa saw a yellow card as well.
Sevilla with their next fixture against Real Betis at away stadium, while Atlético de Madrid will face Espanyol at home stadium.
