
# Bride cancels her wedding after pals donate £23k - but is keeping all the money

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:25:52+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/bride-cancels-wedding-after-pals-20815780)

It's no secret that weddings can end up being pretty pricey, with dresses, venues, catering, rings, transport and more to pay for.
In order to cover the hefty costs, some people decide to borrow money from family or generous friends.
One couple, known as Pam and Edward, recently did just this and managed to raise a whopping $30,000 (£23,000) in donations to fund their lavish big day.
The wedding was all set to take place on December 1, but just a few weeks before the special occasion, Pam is said to have cancelled the nuptials.
And while the wedding has been indefinitely postponed, the couple have reassured their nearest and dearest that they won't be letting all that money go to waste and will instead be using it to pay for a pre-wedding honeymoon.
Yes, really.
 
The bizarre situation was revealed in a viral Twitter thread by a user named @wthDARIELLE which has been liked more than 16,000 times and retweeted by over 7,000 people.
Darielle shared screenshots taken from Pam's Facebook page, announcing the cancellation of the winter wedding.
In a lengthy post on Facebook, the bride-to-be wrote: "After much reflection and tear-filled conversation with our closest family members, we have decided to cancel our upcoming winter wedding.
"We thank each and every one of your for your generous donations to our money fund. Can you believe we have raised over $30,000??? Unbelievable!!!
"Don't worry, the money you've donated will not be spent in vain but rather used towards a honeymoon in the coming months."
 
She added: "After a honeymoon we will announce a new wedding date and re-open our money fund for any further gifts! Weddings are expensive.
"Please stay tuned! In the meantime, I'll be updating our gift fund registry on Amazon if anyone would like to gift us something to take on a honeymoon."
Understandably the wedding guests on Facebook were less than impressed to find out that they wouldn't be getting their money back - and some even threatened to take legal action against the couple.
A member of the groom's family commented: "Is this a f***ing joke??? After raking in $30k you decide to be greedy and use it all for yourselves?"
 
A different family member said: "You aren't responding to my calls or texts so I'm just going to tell you: You are to return my more than generous $12,000 donation on behalf of the family in one week.
"If on 13/11/2019 I do not see the money, in my bank account, I will be seeing you in court. This is unacceptable and is betrayal towards your family members."
Similarly, one of the groomsman proclaimed: "I took a week off of work, donated $100 and now you're telling me you're going to use THIRTY THOUSAND F***ING DOLLARS FOR A HONEYMOON... BEFORE A WEDDING??? Are you insane? You got your lump sun and you say HASTA LA VISTA to your family and friends?"
However, these messages did little to persuade Pam to return the money.
She hit back at friends and family, writing: "No, it's my money now. You gave it to ME. I'm going through tough times so now you want it back? That's not how donations work."
 
However not everyone was angry with Pam, one of her bridesmaids was very sympathetic and encouraged others to "consider her feelings".
She commented: "I only gave $200 so I don't care what you do with it, but just to be clear, this is really all I could afford so please enjoy.
"To everyone else giving her ultimatums could you please consider Pam's feelings here and just know she isn't conning anyone she just needs to reschedule."
 
The bride-to-be later shared an update on Facebook, blasting her friends and family for "whittling her away to nothing".
She says she had been bombarded with calls, texts and emails all day and night about the wedding and the stress meant she had to go to "urgent care".
"I felt lightheaded and distraught," she claims. "I was even questioned on my mental state. Not fun!"
The bride goes on to say that the trip to see the doctor hadn't been cheap and as a result she would be making her family and friends "foot the bill" out of the donations.
She added: "I will need to take an extra week off in life in order to recover. I am going to embark on a social media, phone and internet blackout. DO NOT CONTACT ME. I need to put my emotional zen first.
"Once I recover I will decide when we can all talk in person to discuss the situation.
"In the meantime, please consider donating any spa or personal care items to my home address if you even care about me at all."
Wow.
People on social media were begging for more information and also equally appalled by the whole thing.
One person tweeted: "Wedding culture is nothing but a nightmare of waste, entitlement and ego, but this is STILL horrifying."
Another said: "I wonder if the apologetic bridesmaid is getting a cut of the 30 stacks."
A third added: "I can't get money for surgery, and someone got $30k for a wedding that didn't happen that they're not returning. Excuse me while I got bang my head against a wall for an hour."
