
# Girl, 7, almost blinded after horrific mauling by crazed German Shepherd

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:24:53+00:00**

Author: **Bradley Jolly, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/bradley-jolly/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/girl-7-almost-blinded-after-20835854)

A seven-year-old girl was left with part of her skull exposed and almost blinded after a crazed German Shepherd attacked her.
Sophie Evans was covered in blood and had bite wounds across her face and scalp after the mauling.
She had injuries so deep the bones were exposed on her head.
Her grief-stricken mum Lyndsey, 34, said: "I was heartbroken when I saw her.
"Nothing can prepare you for being on the other side as a parent."
Sophie was dashed to A&E but then transferred to Sheffield Children's Hospital's emergency department.
The youngster, of Wombwell, South Yorkshire,  was treated by the emergency team before spending four-and-a-half hours in surgery the next morning.
She was discharged two days later and returned to school within three weeks in January.
Lyndsey, herself a receptionist in a hospital emergency department, continued: "To this day, I cannot believe how brave she was when I arrived, she just held out her hand and said 'mummy, I'm OK'.
"I'm used to seeing people on their worst days but nothing can prepare you for being on the other side as a parent.
"All the staff who helped us were absolutely amazing, words will never be enough to explain how forever grateful we will be.
 
"On the worst day of our lives, they made sure we were all looked after and reassured.
"Thanks to the magic hands of the emergency department team, her scars are barely noticeable today. They fixed my Sophie up and she is perfect to us once again."
The family has now devoted themselves to fundraising for The Children's Hospital Charity's £4.5 million appeal to build a new emergency department at Sheffield Children's Hospital.
Jack has already begun the effort, running his first-ever 10K alongside his dad - security officer Rob, 37 - and raising £800 towards the appeal.
David Vernon-Edwards, director of The Children's Hospital Charity, said the emergency department was built to see a maximum of 32,000 patients every year but last year saw almost 57,000.
In addition to the expanded waiting room and clinical space, the redevelopment will also build a dedicated space for children with mental health issues or learning difficulties and a separate area for adolescents.
Mr Vernon-Edwards said: "We're so thankful to Sophie's family for sharing their story and to her brother, Jack, for his fantastic fundraising."
