
# UK weather forecast: Three weeks of rain fall in a day as floods could cut off homes

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:18:12+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/uk-weather-forecast-three-weeks-20821442)

Some parts of Britain could be cut off by floodwater later this week as almost three weeks of rain falls in 24 hours, the Met Office warns.
The organisations has issued a rain weather warning for north-east England from 6am tomorrow to 6am on Friday.
Up to 80mm of rain could hit parts of Yorkshire, bringing almost three quarters of the 121mm average rain total for November in one day.
The Met Office alert says there is a chance some communities could become cut off by flooded roads, in addition to potential public transport disruption.
The warning states: "Rain, prolonged and occasionally heavy, will affect much of Yorkshire, along with parts of northeast of England and the north Midlands during Thursday.
 
"The rain will gradually ease overnight and clear away during the early hours of Friday.
"20-40 mm of rain is expected over quite a wide area, with 60-80 mm falling in a few locations over high ground, through the period."
The Environment Agency said flooding is possible - but not expected - on Thursday and Friday.
A flooding forecast by the organisation states: "Widespread surface water and river flooding is possible but not expected on Thursday and Friday as rain falls on already wet ground across parts of the north of England, the Midlands and Lincolnshire.
"Local flooding is also possible more widely across the Midlands, East Anglia and the north of England. Properties may flood and there may be travel disruption."
It will be a chilly start for many this morning, with temperatures of 2C in central England and even lower in parts of Scotland.
The mercury is not expected to climb above 10C and will dip down to 3C in the north this evening.
Tonight will be cloudy with patchy rain in the evening for many, especially central and western areas.
However it will be dry for a time in northern Scotland and south-east England.
Through the night it will become cloudy with showers or longer spells of rain for most, with snow likely over the hills of Scotland, particularly the Grampians.
Tomorrow will be mostly cloudy with outbreaks of rain in Northern Ireland, southern and eastern Scotland.
 
There will be rain at times too in England and Wales, although there will be occasional bright spells in south Wales and south-west England.
Further snow once again expected in the high grounds of Scotland, with temperatures dropping to freezing.
It will be chilly but mostly dry with sunny spells on Friday, after any early rain clears away from south-east England.
Sub-zero temperatures are expected in Scotland on Friday night.
On Saturday a band of heavy rain will sweep eastwards across the country.
There could also be flurries of snow over northern hills.
Rain across west and southwestern parts, heavy in places, will edge slowly eastwards. Many northern and eastern areas staying dry and bright but feeling cold.
Band of rain moving northeast and becoming slow moving across northern and eastern England by dawn. Showers across parts of Scotland. Cold with patchy frost in far north.
Rain, heavy at times, across central Britain with strong winds. Showers across Scotland, turning wintry over hills. Blustery showers in southwest Britain with a risk of thunder. Sunny spells elsewhere.
Rain easing on Friday, then drier and brighter for most. Further rain, with hill snow in the north Saturday. Sunday drier in the south, showers in the north. Remaining cold.
