
# How The King Rewrites Shakespeare’s Most Famous Dialogue

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:00:18+00:00**

Author: **Nate Jones**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/2019/11/how-netflixs-the-king-re-writes-shakespeares-dialogue.html)

Frustrated writers in search of more confidence would do well to study the example of Joel Edgerton and David Michôd. For their Henry V film The King, currently streaming on Netflix, the pair borrowed most of the plot, characters, and big moments from Shakespeare’s trio of plays about the monarch, but chose to jettison the Bard’s famous verse in favor of dialogue of their own creation. Edgerton and Michôd aren’t the first to rewrite Shakespeare — millennials will recall 10 Things I Hate About You kicked off a wave of adaptations that brought Shakespearean plots to American high schools, efforts that were generally more successful with comedies (She’s the Man) than tragedies (O). There the change in scenery freed filmmakers from the burden of direct adaptation; in keeping so much the same, the people behind The King have made each departure feel even more glaring. Besides the language, they’ve also changed the fates of a few supporting players, and given the story new themes. Timothée Chalamet’s Hal is now a noble pacifist who disdains war and imperialism, which is kind of like turning Romeo into an incel.
Instead of iambic pentameter, characters in The King speak in what we might call Game of Thrones English, a blend of short staccato sentences, stentorian pronouncements, a few old-timey phrasings, and frequent cursing. How does it compare to the original? We’ve taken excerpts from a few scenes that directly line up with Shakespeare’s own, to see. (All quotations from the plays courtesy the Open Source Shakespeare project.)
Both The King and Henry IV, Part 1 begin with a showdown between our hero’s royal father and the future outlaw Harry “Hotspur” Percy. After putting down an army of Scottish rebels, Hotspur has taken prisoners, and won’t transfer them to the crown unless Henry IV ransoms his relative, Mortimer, from the Welsh rebel Owen Glendower. The older Henry believes Mortimer is secretly in league with the Welsh, and demands young Hotspur give him the prisoners at once. Here’s how it goes down in Act I, Scene 3 (condensed slightly for length):
In The King, this exchange is broken up into a more traditional conversation between a bunch of characters, but here are the key portions (again, condensed slightly):
Hotspur, what a character! His death forms the climax of Henry IV, Part I, but in The King it comes only a few scenes in. In both cases, he perishes at the hands of the future Henry V, whose dose of battlefield glory signifies his evolution from drunken young wastrel to capable ruler. In Shakespeare, the fight scene takes place in Act V, Scene 4, as the two men find each other on the battlefield at Shrewsbury and get into a bit of a debate over their shared first name:
In The King, a battle is about to begin, but Prince Henry proposes a duel instead, as a way to save the lives of the other men in both armies. What a guy!
Henry IV spends most of Henry IV, Part 2 slowly dying and being visited by the ghost of Richard II, the guy he deposed. Despite killing Hotspur and proving himself a real man, Prince Henry’s relationship with the king hasn’t gotten much better. But when he hears his father is close to death, he decides to pay the man one final visit. In Act IV, Scene 3, he sees the dying king and monologues about embracing his new destiny:
In the play, Henry IV eventually awakes, and father and son share a final reconciliation. In The King, that moment is much shorter, and slightly different:
With the death of his father, Henry is now king of England, and he takes a moment to address his father’s councilors. Here’s the flowery speech he gives them in Act V, Scene 2 of Henry IV Part 2:
When you’re fitting three Shakespeare plays into one two-hour movie, you’ve gotta make cuts somewhere, so The King speeds through Henry IV, Part 2. Its version of the above monologue comes roughly 30 seconds after Henry has stormed into the king’s bedchamber.
Both versions of the story include a scene where the Dauphin of France taunts Henry by sending him a gift of tennis balls. In Henry V, the young king immediately takes it as a challenge, and vows to cross the Channel and press his claim to the French throne. Here’s his speech from Act I, Scene 2 (again, slightly condensed):
By contrast, the enlightened Henry of The King does not care about claiming the French throne, and so does not consider a gift of sporting equipment adequate pretext for invading France.
But because this is the story of Henry V, you can’t just write out the part where he invades France. Both stories also have to shoehorn in the Southampton Plot, where a few of Henry’s advisers plotted to put his distant relative on the throne, got found out, and were executed shortly before the king set sail. In the play, Henry tricks the advisers into pressing for a harsh sentence against those who have spoken out against the king, then presents them with letters proving their guilt. Having just argued against mercy, the men can’t demand it for themselves: 
Henry continues with another longer speech, but nobody’s got time for that in a Netflix movie. Edgerton and Michôd dispense with the letter shenanigans and get straight to the point: 
Finally, the oratory you’ve been waiting for ever since you clicked into this post. With The King skipping the battle at Harfleur that gives us the “Once more unto the breach” speech, Henry’s famous pre-battle monologue at Agincourt is the filmmakers’ big chance to put their own spin on Shakespeare’s most stirring language. If you’ve forgotten it, here it is (in full), from Act IV, Scene 3:
There was absolutely no way The King was going to be able to top this. But at least they gave it a try! Here’s what Michôd comes up with:
Out of respect to Shakespeare’s genius pacing, The King decides to join the Bard in following up the super-exciting battle of Agincourt with a very talky scene of Henry flirting with his future French wife, Katharine. Except … she doesn’t speak English! What is a horny king to do, except try to woo her anyway, with the assistance of Alice, a lady-in-waiting. Here’s a portion of their exchange from Act V, Scene 2:
The scene in the play goes on for quite some time after that, but I’ll spare you more blocks of text. The King, funnily enough, treats Henry and Katharine’s little language games with a lot more reverence than it does the rest of Henry V, but it also throws in a twist! Katharine is not just a very progressive 15th-century noblewoman who believes “all monarchy is illegitimate,” she also helps Henry wake up to the real enemy:
As it turns out, in this telling, Henry is a nice, peaceful chap who really didn’t want to commit war crimes — he was just tricked into invading France by his evil counselors! While this twist bears heavy similarities to actual medieval propaganda, I suspect the filmmakers’ intent had more to do with drama than history. As the movie’s Falstaff, having evaded the fate Shakespeare gave him, says on the eve of Agincourt: “Either I die here, or I die over a bottle in Eastcheap. I think this makes for a much better story.” I’ll leave it up to you to decide whether that’s true or not.
