
# Paul Pogba 'destined' to leave Man Utd if they miss out on Champions League

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:50:59+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/paul-pogba-destined-leave-man-20830548)

Paul Pogba is certain to leave Manchester United if they miss out on the Champions League again, according to a former colleague at Juventus .
The Frenchman was said to be pushing for an Old Trafford exit in the summer, just three years after rejoining the club in a then world record £89million deal from Turin.
Both Real Madrid and former club Juve were pushing to sign the midfielder, but he ended up staying at United despite publicly expressing his desire for a new challenge.
Pogba has had an injury-hit 2019/20 campaign, only featuring in five Premier League games as United have struggled to 10th place in the table.
In an interview with Italian media outlet Tuttosport, the former Juventus chief scout Javier Ribalta - who these days is the sporting director at Russian outfit Zenit St Petersburg - tipped the Italian giants to make another move for Pogba.
Assessing their attempts to bring in another big name after the capture of Cristiano Ronaldo last year, Ribalta - who left Juve in 2017, one year after Pogba - was asked about the possibility of signing one of Pogba, Kylian Mbappe, Erling Braut Haaland or Joao Felix.
And he stuck his neck on the line when it came to the Manchester United man.
“None of the four looks simple to me, but I would bet a pizza with a friend on Pogba’s return," he said. "Without Champions (League), Paul is destined to leave Manchester United.”
Ahead of United facing Partizan Belgrade in the Europa League on Thursday, Red Devils boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has suggested that Pogba will be ready to return from his ankle injury after the international break when his side go to Sheffield United.
