
# Ronaldo Drops Further Behind In Serie A Golden Boot Race

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:30:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/cristiano-ronaldo-drops-further-behind-in-serie-a-golden-boot-race/666796)

Cristiano Ronaldo, who is experiencing a slow start to the 2019/20 Serie A campaign, has now fallen further behind in the Capocannoniere race for the Golden Boot in Italy.

        
          Tired of reading? Click through the gallery above to see the goalscorers in Serie A so far this season.
        
      
The Juventus superstar has scored just five times in nine league appearances thus far, with five players having netted more already.
Lazio forward Ciro Immobile leads the ranking after scoring an incredible 13 goals in his first 11 Serie A games in this campaign, while Romelu Lukaku has climbed to second position.

        
          Post Selfies On Soccer Laduma's Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now 
        
      
The former Manchester United striker took his tally to nine goals with a brace against Bologna on the weekend, while Luis Muriel completes the top three after finding the back of the net on eight occasions so far.
Sassuolo forward Domenico Berardi, with seven strikes, and Atalanta's Duvan Zapata, who has netted six times, are also ahead of Ronaldo.
The 34-year-old finished his debut season in Italy with 21 goals, while Fabio Quagliarella won the 2018/19 Serie A Golden Boot with 26 strikes.

        
          Read: Cristiano Jr. Following In CR7's Footsteps
        
      
Despite Ronaldo's less prolific performances in terms of goals, Juventus are the only unbeaten side in Italy's top flight so far this season.
