
# Shirley Ballas is thrilled with new A cup boobs after having DD implants removed

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:40+00:00**

Author: **Brogan-Leigh Hurst**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/shirley-ballas-thrilled-new-cup-20792473)

Shirley Ballas is thrilled with her smaller boobs after having her implants removed - urging younger women to avoid going under the knife for the procedure.
The Strictly Come Dancing head judge is due back on the dance floor tonight after undergoing the 4½-hour operation due to cancer fears.
Shirley, who is finally accepting her natural body shape for the first time, had her DD implants removed.
She told The Sun : "When I saw my little boobies I thought, 'I'm myself again'".
The 59-year-old said that when she looked in the mirror for the first time after having her breast implants removed, she said: "I'm glad they are gone."
Shirley went under the knife in a gruelling operation to remove her augmentation after a potentially dangerous capsule had grown unexpectedly.
She made the choice to revert to her natural A cup boobs because of a risk of cancer in her family, and is determined to share her story to make young women think twice before going under the knife.
An emotional Shirley admitted: "When I saw my little boobies, I thought, ‘There she is’. They’re lovely. They’re all a bit swollen but I’m pleased with the breast lift he gave me. And now I’m in the process of learning to love myself after all those years."
And the star also confessed if she could go back to her younger self, she wouldn't have gone under the knife,saying she is "relieved" after having them removed.
But despite the surgery, Shirley will be returning to tonight's episode of Strictly Come Dancing against the explicit orders of her surgeon.
She feels it's important to be open about the intimate procedure, saying: "You can't go into work with a DD boob one day then have an A or B the following week and pretend you never had implants."
