
# UFC 244 Preview And Picks: Jorge Masvidal And Nate Diaz Fight For BMF Title

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/01/ufc-244-preview-and-picks-jorge-masvidal-and-nate-diaz-fight-for-bmf-title/)

I can't recall any fighters who have asked the UFC for their own division and received it until Nate Diaz did so. Not only did Diaz create the BMF division, but the UFC designed and manufactured a BMF title belt. That title is on the line on Saturday when Diaz faces Jorge Masvidal in the main event of the UFC 244 pay-per-view card, which streams on ESPN+ from Madison Square Garden in New York City. So, how and why did the BMF title become a thing? 
The title existed in Diaz's mind until he spoke it into reality after his win over former UFC lightweight champion Anthony Pettis at UFC 241.
"This is the fight game," Diaz said. "Quit acting like this is a professional sport. (Take) whatever they want to give me? No, I'm going to take what's mine. That's what I'm talking about, the baddest mother(expletive) title. I need that belt made as soon as possible."
Diaz had called for the fight against Masvidal during his post-fight press conference. The UFC seemingly liked Diaz's proposal because it booked the contest and created a actual physical title belt for Saturday's event. Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson will wrap that belt around the victor's waist.
Diaz's win over Pettis came nearly three years after he lost a majority decision to Conor McGregor at UFC 202. That contest was a rematch of their UFC 196 bout, which Diaz won by submission in the second round. 
Masvidal is one of the hottest fighters of 2019. He is 2-0 this year with two knockout victories. Masvidal has scored three-fight night bonus awards for a total of $150,000 in those two bouts. In March, he knocked out Darren Till. Masvidal followed that with a five-second flying knee knockout of Ben Askren in July. The Askren KO stands as the fastest stoppage in UFC history. 
These two have been nothing but respectful toward each other in the lead up to this fight. However, you can rest assured that when the referee signals the start of the battle, which is scheduled for five rounds, both men will be entirely focused on adding another stoppage victory to their record. 
It's hard to think of a recent fight that was more anticipated than the matchup between these two veteran competitors. 
UFC 244 takes place Saturday at New York's Madison Square Garden. The pay-per-view card airs on ESPN+ following prelims on ESPN2 and ESPN+.
Pick: Masvidal 

        More From UFC 244:
      
