
# Will consider new options if I don’t get playing time at Barcelona, admits Riqui Puig

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:30:02+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/04/will-consider-new-options-if-i-dont-get-playing-time-at-barcelona-admits-riqui-puig?utm_medium=rss)


        Barcelona wonder-kid Riqui Puig has admitted that he would have to consider options if he doesn’t get regular football at the Nou Camp. Puig hasn’t ruled out a departure from Barcelona in the upcoming January transfer window as he has failed to make regular first-team appearances this season.
      
Riqui Puig is one of the best young prospects in Barcelona and is considered to be a player capable of playing with the first team. The La Masia prodigy has been restricted to appearances only for the Barcelona B team in the Segunda B division. He was touted to follow the footsteps of Xavi and make a place in the first team but the overcrowded midfield of Blaugrana have little room for the 20-year-old. Puig has admitted that he will consider leaving in January if he isn’t given assurances on playing time, as reported by Marca.
“No [I won't leave in January], in theory no, but we will see. I haven't closed the door, but it is true that I would like to have more minutes [with the senior side]. There are a lot of players [in midfield] and it is hard for me to have those minutes, and if I don't have them then I will have a decision to make,” said Puig to Marca.
The 20-year-old explained that if he doesn't get more playing time with the senior side, he will have to make a decision regarding his future. The La Masia product has played 10 games for the B team and scored on 2 occasions. Puig also told about how his training time with first-team has reduced and now he isn’t called for training with the first team.
“I am not training so much with the first team this season. Last year I was practically a part of the first team; I trained with them and I went down to play with [Barcelona] B. But these are things [you have to deal with in] football and you have to play with your feet on the ground. I have to get minutes and experience and I am lucky that [with the B team] I almost always play. It is hard, because last year I was part of the first team and this year I am not participating so much,” concluded Puig.
