
# Heartbreaking tributes to 'beautiful boy' who died after being knocked off bike

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:56:40+00:00**

Author: **Bradley Jolly, Matt Lloyd, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/bradley-jolly/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/heartbreaking-tributes-beautiful-boy-who-20811604)

Heartbroken relatives described an 11-year-old lad thrown off his bike in a tragic crash as an "angel" and " a beautiful boy".
Harley Jackson died on Saturday after the collision in rural Ansley Common, Warwickshire.
A man who was arrested in connection with the crash has since been released pending further investigation, Coventry Live says.
The youngster's grief-stricken mum said: "No words can be written or described for the heartache we are feeling, our beautiful boy age just 11 years old, taken from us far too soon.
"We keep looking at the front door expecting you to run in and shout 'can I have a £1 for the shop mum please', dad would say 'not yet son, you have only just had some an hour ago.' I would say yes of course. I would always be soft on him, but that is what mothers do.
"He loved life more than life itself. He had so many different groups of friends, who worshipped the ground he walked on, his smile always lit up the room that he entered."
Harley, who had two younger sisters, was hit by a car at around 2.40pm on Saturday.
Warwickshire Police continue to probe the crash.
But Harley's family now admit they'll "cling on to each other" to carry on.
"There aren't words to describe how we will carry on in our lives but we will," his mum added.
"We will cling on to each other for our two beautiful little girls, his sisters.
"We love you son, we will miss you forever until our dying days."
A specially trained family liaison officer continues to help the family in Ansley Common.
"Our first beautiful baby boy.
"From the moment we found out we were expecting you it was like god sent us an angel.
"He was a first grandchild and nephew on both sides, and was adored and loved by everybody.
"After a difficult labour you were born by caesarean and we both held you so tight. We promised we would give you everything and keep you safe forever.
"No words can be written or described for the heartache we are feeling, our beautiful boy age just 11 years old, taken from us far too soon.
"He had only just started high school in August. He loved his new school, Hartshill, it didn’t phase him but boy did I worry, waving him off on that first day. He said 'mum go back in, my friends are coming.'
"He went to Nursery Hill Primary, right from nursery through to leaving year 6, he made us so proud every day.
"We keep looking at the front door expecting you to run in and shout “can I have a £1 for the shop mum please”, dad would say “not yet son, you have only just had some an hour ago." I would say yes of course. I would always be soft on him, but that is what mothers do.
"He loved life more than life itself. He had so many different groups of friends, who worshipped the ground he walked on, his smile always lit up the room that he entered.
"He was always on his bike, scooter or trampoline with his sisters. Or even dancing with his dad. He was a joker and a happy contented boy.
"He loved his phone and his X-box, Pokemon hunting too.
"We have a massive strong family and friends, also a loving, caring community that we are being comforted by.
"The candlelit vigil showed just how much he was loved by everybody. He really was one in a million.
"There aren't words to describe how we will carry on in our lives but we will.
"We will cling on to each other for our two beautiful little girls, his sisters.
"We love you son, we will miss you forever until our dying days.
"Sleep well baby boy, god bless. xxxxx"
