
# What’s going on Saturday?

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **BrooklynVegan Staff**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/whats-going-on-saturday-190/)

You can browse our full NYC show calendar for all of tonight’s shows, but here are some highlights…
Saves The Day (performs Through Being Cool), Hot Rod Circuit (performs Sorry About Tomorrow) @ Starland BallroomSaves The Day’s classic, highly influential sophomore album Through Being Cool turns 20 today, and they’re celebrating by performing it in full at four shows, two in the NYC-area and two in the LA-area. (NYC-area shows include NJ tonight, Brooklyn tomorrow.) Sweetening the deal is Hot Rod Circuit performing their 2002 classic Sorry About Tomorrow.
Wiki, Mr. Muthafuckin’ eXquire, Lansky Jones @ The Sultan RoomJust yesterday, Wiki made the announcement that he’d have a new album called OOFIE out next week and he released the great new single “Pesto.” Ahead of the album’s release, he plays this hometown show with two other great local staples.
108, Racetraitor, Sanction, Firewalker @ Brooklyn BazaarKrishnacore vets 108 conclude their two-night stand celebrating the 25th anniversary of their 1994 sophomore album Songs of Separation. They’ve got some killer support too, including reunited hardcore band Racetraitor (who released their first new album in 20 years last year), and tonight also has Long Island metallic hardcore crushers Sanction and promising Pop Wig-signed band Firewalker.
New Optimism (Miho Hatori), Bubble_T, Reonda, Metropolitan Opera, Brooklyn Symphony Orchestra @ Brooklyn MuseumThe November edition of Brooklyn Museum’s “First Saturdays” series presents a day of “Crossing Asian America.” Performances include New Optimism, the project from genre-bending musician Miho Hatori; queer performance collective BUBBLE_T; Brooklyn songwriter Reonda; and performances from the Met Opera and Brooklyn Symphony Orchestra.
Kishi Bashi, Cicada Rhythm @ Brooklyn SteelSongwriter and multi-instrumentalist Kishi Bashi brings his eclectic and playful sounds (and his violin) to Brooklyn Steel, behind this year’s Omoiyari.
King Princess, Girlpool @ Terminal 5Alt-pop singer King Princess has had a busy year. She sang on one of the catchiest songs on Mark Ronson’s new album, and then she released her own debut album Cheap Queen just last week. Now she’s on tour with indie rock duo Girlpool, and playing big NYC shows at Terminal 5, where she concludes a two-show run tonight.
Caracara, Spirits of Leo, stillhungry, Plight @ AlphavilleIndie rock/post-hardcore blenders Caracara have been on a roll this year, having released the great Better EP and “Dark Bells” single. Tonight, their tour hits Brooklyn.
David Byrne’s American Utopia @ Hudson TheatreDavid Byrne has retooled his acclaimed “untethered” 2018 for the Broadway stage and while the setlist and arrangements are much like what they were on his tour, songs are now threaded together with new monologues from Byrne, making for a much more theatrical experience.
The Original Robert Glasper Experiment (two shows) @ Blue NoteRobert Glasper is on the final run of shows in his month-long Blue Note Jazz Club residency, which will find him playing with The Original Robert Glasper Experiment (Glasper, Derrick Hodge, Chris Dave, Casey Benjamin) through November 3. Glasper has already had a bunch of cool surprise guests join him at this residency… will anyone show up tonight?
Lambchop @ Murmrr TheatreKurt Wagner brings Lambchop to Brooklyn’s Murmrr Theatre for a rare one-off performance supporting the synthetic, autotune-heavy This (is what I wanted to tell you), and its companion EP Basement Tapes, which dropped this past week.
J.S. Ondara, Elise Davis @ Music Hall of WilliamsburgFolk singer J.S. Ondara has a voice that can silence the room as soon as he opens his mouth, and it’s no surprise that the size of the rooms he’s playing keeps increasing.
Foxes in Fiction @ Public RecordsFoxes in Fiction, the project of NYC-based songwriter Warren Hildebrand, makes enveloping dream pop with with a flair for the dramatic (and ambient). This Brooklyn show is behind their new album Trillium Killer which came out in October.
Mike Doughty (plays Soul Coughing’s Ruby Vroom) @ Rough TradeMike Doughty will perform his old band Soul Coughing’s classic 1994 debut in full.
Jonathan Bree, Kyle Avallone @ The Bell HouseJonathan Bree used to front New Zealand indie pop group The Brunettes and now makes music on his own, having released Sleepwalking in 2018 and recently dropped new single “Waiting on the Moment.” His live show is a spectacle with white zentai suits, choreographed dancers, cinematic projections and more.
Live From Here with Chris Thile: Common, Gregory Alan Isakov, The Fates of Hadestown, Serena Brook, Aoife O’Donovan, Tom Papa @ Town HallChris Thile hosts his regular live radio variety show Live From Here at Town Hall tonight, featuring rapper Common, singer-songwriter Gregory Alan Isakov, “The Fates” from Broadway’s Hadestown, folk songwriter Aoife O’Donovan, and comedian Tom Papa.
John Zorn (New Masada Quartet), Julian Lage, Jorge Roeder, Kenny Wollesen @ Village Vanguard (two shows)John Zorn, with much help from Julian Lage (guitar), Jorge Roeder (bass) and Kenny Wollesen (drums), aims to “put Ornette Coleman and the Jewish scales together” as the New Masada Quartet.
Los Straitjackets @ IridiumLuchador-masked surf band Los Straightjackets spend a lot of time backing Nick Lowe these days, but they are just as fun without him.
Rosanne Cash, Ry Cooder @ Stern Auditorium/Perlman Stage at Carnegie HallRoseanne Cash pays tribute to her father, Johnny Cash, with help from Ry Cooder, playing songs exclusively from The Man In Black’s songbook.
The Loser’s Lounge @ My Father’s Place At The Roslyn HotelJoe McGinty and the rest of Loser’s Lounge play tribute to Stax Records tonight, specifically Otis Redding, The Staple Singers, Sam & Dave, Carla Thomas, Rufus Thomas and Booker T & The MGs.
The Dickies, The Threads, Sickwalt @ LolaCalifornia wiseass punk vets headline this night where loud fast rules.
For all of tonight’s shows, and tomorrow’s, check out our NYC concert calendar.
For laughs, check out the NYC Comedy calendar too.
————-—
Follow @BrooklynVegan on Twitter.Follow @bvChicago for just Chicago stuff.Also follow @bvAustin for just Austin stuff.
Be our friend on Facebook too, and BV Austin’s friend on Facebook and BV Chicago’s friend on Facebook.
Follow BrooklynVegan on instagram.
What else?
——————-
Browse our ‘Tickets On Sale‘ tag for more recently announced NYC shows.
Browse our NYC Concert Calendar for shows happening today and every day – comedy shows, heavy metal concerts (courtesy of our heavy metal blog), and free shows included.
