
# If we bar politicians from lining their pockets in office we might trust them

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:15:11+00:00**

Author: **Kevin McKenna**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/03/if-we-bar-politicians-from-lining-their-pockets-in-office-we-might-trust-them)


        Shame made Ruth Davidson turn down a consultancy job, but voters shouldn’t have to rely on that
      
Britain’s electorate, having been tutored in the ways of open democracy and parliamentary accountability for longer than most, is regarded as sophisticated. We will hear the encomium “the voters are our real employers” many times over the course of this election. It suggests we are wise to the ways of our elected representatives and that we seem to possess a sixth sense for knowing when the time has come for change. Yet, in so many other ways, we are as easily reassured as a child hoping to find silver under the pillow where a tooth used to be.
We fondly believe our MPs are beyond the reach of corporate wealth and that the interests of their constituents, or at least what they think are those of the country, always come first. But what do we imagine those Conservative party dinners at £100,000-a-pop are really for? Do we ever dwell on what fuels the lobbying industry? Has the concept of one-person-one-vote ever been a reality?
We fondly assume that, in exchange for a handsome salary and not insubstantial pension and benefits package, our politicians work exclusively on our behalf during their political tenure. Allegations of Tories and their families being up to their oxters in hedge funds originating in the South Pacific flit in and out of our Facebook pages and the dark money at the heart of the Brexit campaign simply can’t be denied. Yet little or none of this will come to feature significantly on the stump of this election.
At the end of last month, Ruth Davidson, until recently the leader of the Scottish Conservatives, decided to seek to enlarge her income stream. She decided that her job representing the citizens of her Edinburgh Central constituency left her sufficient time to represent a global PR firm for a per diem rate of £2,000. Admittedly, she would only have added an extra £50,000 for 25 days’ work to her MSP’s salary of £63,579. After a week or so of negative headlines, she wisely opted to drop this arrangement.
Davidson is an astute and canny politician who found herself at the top of the Tory tree in Scotland shortly after becoming an MSP in 2011. Under her leadership, the Tories replaced Labour as the main opposition party in Scotland, a feat once considered less likely than Scotland’s footballers qualifying for a World Cup. What was most puzzling about Davidson’s brief flirtation with a lucrative second income isn’t that she felt a salary of £63,579, plus generous expenses and pension, didn’t quite meet her lifestyle needs, it’s that she seemed oblivious to how this would be understood by voters. No wrongdoing was attached to her first steps into the world of lobbying and PR, nor did she try to conceal it.
What first attracted Tulchan Communications to the former Scottish Tory leader, Ruth Davidson? She is a very charming and charismatic woman but it wasn’t just for these qualities that her new commercial bosses were keen to pay her £2,000 a day. Even if any of her constituents did understand her need to earn more money, they might have had a problem with the potential for a conflict of interests: theirs and her new employers.
However, Davidson is only one of many among our elected representatives across the spectrum of party politics who doesn’t seem to have grasped why attempts to maximise their parliamentary experience are regarded dimly by the public. Most MPs, including the indefatigable Davidson, work hard at their job and are dedicated to the idea of public service. However, the public also regards the task of making laws and representing them in the highest chamber in the land as a privilege that requires their exclusive devotion. There may be scant long-term security in a job that is at the mercy of the public’s capriciousness every few years but this is more than offset by generous pension arrangements and the opportunities to connect with potential future employers.
Earlier this year, the Labour MSP Neil Findlay proposed a bill to stop politicians profiting from second incomes while serving at Holyrood. In the four-month consultation process accompanying his bill, 95% of 500 respondents said they believed being an MSP should be a full-time job. The Scottish parliament’s report on the consultation pointed out some of the principal reasons behind support for Findlay’s bill, including the reasonable view that the job of MSP is a full-time one, demanding total dedication and commitment. There was an equally reasonable view that remuneration packages are more than sufficient.
Findlay’s proposed legislation is welcome and long overdue. but if we were serious about ending access to these streams, we might go further and prevent former prime ministers and ministers of state from monetising their tenures for a reasonable period after they are over. It would be like draining a swamp with a plunger, though.
Four years ago, a senior Scottish Labour MP chastised me for suggesting during a radio show that he and some of his colleagues all too eagerly threw themselves into the lucrative arms of high finance after their 2015 election apocalypse. “Don’t you know I could have been earning hundreds of thousands during the time I was at Westminster,” he said, looking genuinely hurt.
From a population of 65.5 million, it must be possible to find 650 MPs and 129 MSPs who are happy to forfeit outside financial interests in exchange for a remuneration package more than twice the average wage and not expect to be hailed as heroes for their sacrifice.
• Kevin McKenna is an Observer columnist
