
# Affiliation will get tougher

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kumaran P**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/affiliation-will-get-tougher/articleshow/71929502.cms)

Hundreds of degree colleges come up in the city every year. To maintain the quality of education, the department of higher education has asked the state universities to verify all parameters before a college is given affiliation. The ministry of higher education is also planning to start ‘Integrated University Monitoring System’ so that all universities can be centralised. Currently, Bangalore University and Mangalore University have their own statutes for providing affiliations to the degree colleges, whereas several other state universities do not have concrete statutes for providing affiliations to the colleges. The ministry of higher education has decided to bring in this system so that there is uniformity with respect to rules and regulations. A senior official from the department said, “We have asked the universities to make rules and regulations so that they are able to control the affiliation process.” “Some universities are recommending colleges for the affiliation process without checking several parameters that is mandated by University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines. They are approving all the courses that the colleges ask and they do not verify whether the colleges are capable of conducting them,” added the official. The Integrated University Monitoring System, according to officials, will centralise all universities in terms of uniform rules and regulations with respect to affiliations, examinations and monitoring process.
