
# Navigating the New Pickup System at LAX

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:07:01+00:00**

Author: **Jill Cowan**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/04/us/laxit-lax-rideshare-taxi-lot-change.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)


        Good morning.
      

        (If you don’t already get California Today by email, here’s 
        
          the sign-up
        
        .)
      
Few things unite Californians — or really anyone who’s ever been to LAX — quite like complaining about traffic at LAX.
Last week, though, travelers were introduced to a new part of the Los Angeles International Airport experience that has sent the usual griping into overdrive.
Search “LAX-it” on Twitter and you’d think some sort of Thunderdome had opened just east of Terminal 1. The words “chaos” and “nightmare” appear frequently.
But, no: LAX-it — pronounced, for what it’s worth, “L.A. exit” — is just the expansive new lot where you’ll have to catch your Lyft, Uber or taxi, since almost all curbside ride-share and taxi pickups are now banned.
The move, airport officials have said, is part of plans to alleviate traffic as construction continues on an automated people mover that’s set to be running by 2023 — ideally well ahead of the 2028 Olympics.
Predictably, LAX-it’s opening days were rough. The Los Angeles Times reported that travelers and drivers were enraged by hourlong wait times and mass confusion on Tuesday, the lot’s opening day.
Shortly thereafter, Los Angeles World Airports, the city agency that runs LAX, apologized for the delays and announced that it was adding more shuttles, more signage and more staff members to help move the lines along.
On Sunday, after having stepped off an early-morning flight from Florida, I joined the wandering hordes. I survived.
When I was somewhere over Texas, I checked the airport’s Twitter, which has started posting average wait times for Lyfts, Ubers and taxis. Waits were just a few minutes, but lengthened as the day wore on.
Getting to the lot was straightforward enough. Outside the baggage claim doors, a green shuttle arrived within about a minute. The drive through the central terminal loop to the lot took about 10 minutes.
In the lot itself, workers chirpily offered water bottles and instructions. Two food trucks were open nearby, though most people were heading straight for the cab lines. A few lingered under lime green umbrellas on benches, charging their phones at kiosks.
I ran into Michael Christensen, the airport’s deputy executive director of operations and maintenance, near where handlers had posted up with Eve and The Dude, a pair of gorgeous English Setters working as therapy dogs.
Mr. Christensen told me that conditions had improved significantly since Thursday night, but that staff members were tracking wait times closely and adjusting traffic lanes to better keep things moving.
He emphasized that traffic was moving through the upper level drop-off areas — where ride-share drivers previously picked up passengers — about 35 percent faster.
And although LAX officials consulted with managers who had implemented similar systems at San Francisco International Airport and La Guardia Airport, Mr. Christensen said that “an operation this big is unique.”
As such, he said, frustration wasn’t unexpected.
“We’re monitoring social media,” he said, “which takes a strong stomach.”
Still, Chance Bonner, a 39-year-old from San Antonio, said that the chaos seemed more organized than the last time he’d landed at LAX about a month ago.
“This is easy compared to driving in L.A.,” he said with a grin.
By the time I’d finished talking with travelers at about 1 p.m., I stood in line for about 15 minutes before I was matched with a Lyft driver. (Unlike at SFO or La Guardia, riders are matched with a driver using a PIN — essentially allowing travelers to move through on a first-come, first-served basis.)
For his part, my driver described the situation as “a mess,” but one he said had improved since last week.
About a half an hour later, we were stuck in bumper-to-bumper traffic on the 110 freeway, anyway.
Here’s the airport’s LAX-it guide, complete with contact information if you have questions. Good luck.

        We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times coverage, but we also encourage you to support local news if you can.
      
President Trump once again took to Twitter on Sunday to rail against Gov. Gavin Newsom about a recent string of wildfires that forced thousands of people to evacuate their homes, repeating a falsehood about water diversion, according to Roll Call.
The San Francisco Chronicle reported that the president also made a threat to withhold federal wildfire aid that was almost identical to one he made last year after the deadly Camp fire.
Mr. Newsom responded to the president on Twitter, saying: “You don’t believe in climate change. You are excused from this conversation.”

        Read more wildfire coverage:
      

        Also, here’s more about how 
        
          scientists started that camera network
        
        . [
        
          The New York Times
        
        ]
      

        In other news
      

        California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: 
        
          CAtoday@nytimes.com
        
        . Were you forwarded this email? 
        
          Sign up for California Today here.
        
      

        Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, graduated from U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, 
        
          @jillcowan
        
        .
      

        California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
      

        Continue reading the main story
      
