
# Edinburgh-bound Ryanair flight found flying 'near North Pole' in computer blunder

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:07:54+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/edinburgh-bound-ryanair-flight-found-20788497)

Christmas almost came early for an Edinburgh-bound flight after computers recorded the aircraft as being near the North Pole when it was actually off the coast of Spain.
The malfunction pinned the Boeing 737-800 Ryanair flight from Porto, Portugal thousands of miles away from its location over the Bay of Biscay.
This computer error forced the crew into manually flying the aircraft to Edinburgh after the pilot was presented with incorrect information on the command system.
A report by the UK Department for Transport’s Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) exposed the error made on October 9 last year, on the then five-month-old aircraft.
The AAIB reported ‘erroneous airspeed and windshear warnings’ as the plane approached Edinburgh Airport. Despite this, the aircraft was landed safely.
The report said that, ‘the commander’s attitude indicator malfunctioned, affecting numerous aircraft systems, and the aircraft climbed 600ft.’.
It continued: “The crew followed the actions detailed in the quick reference handbook, but erroneous information continued to be displayed to the pilot in command and other systems were also affected.
“The aircraft was flown manually to Edinburgh where it landed safely.
“The investigation found the left IRS suffered a transient fault which had led to an erroneous calculation of position.
 
The report added: “During the approach, they encountered erroneous airspeed and windshear warnings, and the autobrake system would not arm.”
“The landing was uneventful, using manual braking, after which the aircraft taxied to the stand where the passengers disembarked.”
Boeing said it has has now amended its “quick reference handbook” checklist, by updating guidance for pilots faced with similar circumstances.
