
# Matthew McConaughey says he’s a pickle expert – here are five reasons to join him

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:26:59+00:00**

Author: **Zoe Williams**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/food/shortcuts/2019/nov/06/matthew-mcconaughy-pickle-expert-five-reasons-to-join-him)


        They’re beautiful, healthy and help in the fight against food waste. No wonder the actor and so many others have declared themselves fans of the preserved delights
      
Matthew McConaughey has scandalised the world of showbiz by declaring himself a pickle expert in his Instagram biog. This is the first time he has ever mentioned pickles, apparently. Now I, honestly, am a pickle expert. I have made every pickle mistake in the book, up to and including using balsamic in a piccalilli, which went the colour of diarrhoea. These are only the top five reasons to take up pickling.
It is hard to make a vegetable interesting without fat, and once you have swamped a cabbage in pepper and double cream, it is really just a garnish to your main meal of fat. Pickling, however, is one easy way: a pile of sauerkraut underneath a sausage, a jar of pickled beetroot in a moment of boredom, a side of kimchi with crispy chicken – these are the only indulgences I can think of that are also health hacks. Fermentation is good for your gut environment. Vinegar kills it, though, so you would have to stick with Asian and central European pickling methods. Fine. And they are classier.
Since I got a pet rabbit, leftover root vegetables have not been a problem for me; for everyone else, pickle them. Don’t wait until they are on the turn before you do, though. Wrinkly pickles are not aesthetically pleasing. Which brings us to …
Kylee Newton, a new-generation pickler and the author of The Modern Preserver, ribbons mouli and pickles it with thyme or cucumbers in gin, and the result is like a still life painting. You would decorate your house with jars of them. Truthfully, though, even pickled celery will make your shelves look more wholesome, particularly if you have seven jars of the stuff. (And even Branston puts me in a good mood.)
I bought some wrapping paper the other day and got on a train, and the man opposite said: “Just looking at you makes me want to start crying.” If the gift season does this to you at all, consider making gifts of great Kilner jars of pickled anything, which will banish the nausea of mindless consumption and replace it with a nourishing tang.
Newton, who had just been pickling jalapeños when I spoke to her, says: “I really love pickling fruit. Pickled plums and cherries, added to baking, are fascinating. The surrounding sponge seems to absorb some of the vinegar, to give you this sour, sweet, soft, creamy taste. It’s so interesting.”
