
# Apple Loop: New iPhone 12 Leaks, iOS 13 Update Rushed Out, Embarrassing iPhone 11 Battery Problems

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ewan Spence**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ewanspence/2019/11/01/apple-news-headlines-iphone-12-leak-rumor-iphone-11-battery-ios13-macos-catalina-airpods-pro/)

Taking a look back at another week of news and headlines from Cupertino, this week’s Apple Loop includes the latest iPhone 12 leaks, serious power problems for the iPhone 11, a rushed iOS 13 release, Twitter’s awkward return to MacOS, the Catalina 10.15.1 update, new AirPods Pro released, Tim Cook’s photoshopping skills, Apple’s quarterly results, and where are Apple’s AirTags?Apple Loop is here to remind you of a few of the very many discussions that have happened around Apple over the last seven days (and you can read my weekly digest of Android news here on Forbes).

        iPhone 12 Turns Up The 5G Power
      
As the Android-powered competition launch 5G handsets with the benefits of super fast connectivity, Apple’s iterative update to the iPhone 11 has been left in the slow lane. But supply chain reports suggest that 5G is coming to every iPhone 12 next year, no matter the size. I reported on the impact earlier this week:
More here on Forbes.

        Your iPhone 11 and iOS 13 Battery Problems
      
Although iOS 13 has seen a number of public releases since the September launch, it is embarrassing that the Apple cannot get on top of the high battery drain issues . Reported by countless users, the new builds of the OS (which ships by default on the iPhone 11 handsets) is chewing through battery charges. Forbes’ Gordon Kelly reports:
And while it is unconnected, it’s delightful that the iOS 13 code has pre-announced the release of three new iPhone Smart Battery Cases for the respective iPhone 11 handsets:
More here on Forbes.

        Apple Rushes Out An iOS Update For HomePod Users
      
Following the release of iOS 13.2 last week, Apple has released iOS 13.2.1. The reason? Applying an immediate fix for the Apple HomePod, which a small number of users reported as being bricked by the OS update. David Phelan reports:
More details on the update here.

        Twitter’s Not Quite Sure About Catalyst
      
One of the big selling points of MacOS Catalina was the potential to run iPadOS apps through Mac Catalyst. One of the big wins for many was the return of a ‘native’ Twitter app to the Mac platform from Twitter. Except there’s a little bit of a twist trying to enter your password. Shaun Nichols runs with the ‘you’re typing it wrong’ line about the Tw:
More at The Register, and as this may not be a unique instance, keep an eye out for other issues.

        MacOS Catalina Updated to v10.15.1
      
This week saw Apple publicly release the first point update to MacOS Catalina. Version 10.15.1 of the desktop operating system addresses a number of bugs and introduced some new features. I took a look at the changes in the update:
More here on Forbes.

        Listening Through The New AirPods Pro To The Rest Of The World
      
With the addition of active noise cancellation and silicone tips for a better fit, Apple has announced the third generation of its wireless ear buds. Called the AirPods Pro (thus allowing them to stay on sale against last year’s AirPods 2), there’s a lot to like when the $249 units go on sale. David Phelan notes the noise cancellation feature:
More details here on Forbes. And if you want a closer look, Marques Brownlee has an unboxing video…

        Tim Cook’s AirPods
      
Why won’t Tim Cook pose with the Apple AirPods? Although he tweeted some pictures following the launch, they looked suspiciously like previous PR shots where he was not wearing the wireless peripherals. 9to5’s Chaim Gartenberg has a theory:
Which leads to a question. Why will Tim Cook not be seen wearing AirPods? Sean Hollister finds more evidence and some suppositions:
The discussion continues on Twitter. And if you do get time for a selfie with the Apple CEO, hand him some Air Pods first!

        Quarterly Results And iPhone Sales
      
Analysts have been dissecting Apple’s quarterly numbers and comparing these to the projected iPhone sales. As The Register notes, the headline numbers are relatively stark:
The question underlying this is the iPhone. Apple no longer breaks out the sales numbers of its key handset, but reports listening to the call noted how circumspect CEO Tim Cook was around the smartphone. Ben Lovejoy reports:
More at 9to5Mac on the call and the analyst projections.

        And Finally…
      
The expected release of Apple’s physical location tags is… still expected. But a closer look inside the iOS 13.2 code reveals that many of the elements are there, ready for someone to pull the digital trigger. Surely this is the perfect stocking filler for the geekerati? William Gallagher reports:
More at Apple Insider.
Apple Loop brings you seven days worth of highlights every weekend here on Forbes. Don’t forget to follow me so you don’t miss any coverage in the future. Last week’s Apple Loop can be read here, or this week’s edition of Loop’s sister column, Android Circuit, is also available on Forbes.
