
# Gasly very happy all around after very impressive outings on Friday at COTA

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Nicolás Quarles van Ufford**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49227/gasly-very-happy-all-around-after-very-impressive-outings-on-friday-at-cota.html)


        Toro Rosso driver Pierre Gasly was left very happy with his car and his team after Friday's Free Practice sessions, with the Frenchman keeping his good form up by finishing fourth and seventh respectively in FP1 and FP2.
      
Gasly has been putting in consistent performances for Toro Rosso since he got demoted from Aston Martin Red Bull Racing over the summer, getting replaced by rookie Alexander Albon.
While many thought he would get in a downward spiral, much like his current teammate Daniil Kvyat did back in 2016, the 24-year-old has been very impressive, scoring points in four of the six races since switching teams.
His latest two races in Japan and Mexico, in which he finished seventh and ninth respectively, even propelled him back into sixth place in the championship, taking it back from Carlos Sainz.
On Friday at COTA, he once again was impressive, finishing fourth and seventh despite the very tricky conditions.
"I have a really good feeling with the car and I’m happy with the setup direction we took between FP1 and FP2," he analysed.

        "We managed to get the car where I wanted it to be so I’m satisfied with that.
      

        "Tomorrow will be slightly different conditions, so we need to make sure we can achieve similar performance by anticipating all of these changes to get the car in a similar position for the next two days. I really enjoy driving on this track as it’s quite particular; it has fast, high-speed corners which is what I like in a circuit.”
      
