
# Chelsea: Has Batshuayi replaced Giroud as the senior (backup) No. 9?

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:30:08+00:00**

Author: **Gabe Henderson**

Original: [The Pride of London](https://theprideoflondon.com/2019/11/03/chelsea-michy-batshuayi-replace-olivier-giroud/)

West Bromwich away. Atletico Madrid away. Ajax away. Those are a few of the many goals Michy Batshuayi has scored in Chelsea blue. Following Diego Costa’s departure from the club, Antonio Conte and his staff quickly learned that Batshuayi wasn’t the player many had hoped. When he joined Borussia Dortmund on loan, it looked like his Chelsea career was over. Multiple years and loan spells later, Batshuayi has refused to take the easy road and force a move away from Stamford Bridge, instead electing to fight for a spot. The Belgian’s commitment to Chelsea may finally be paying off.
At the start of the year, many foresaw Olivier Giroud as the Blues’ go-to striker should Tammy Abraham struggle. While Abraham was busy solidifying his spot as Chelsea’s first-choice forward, Batshuayi was making his case to be selected over Giroud. Now, with Giroud publicly questioning his future in the SW6, Batshuayi may have finally found his way back.
Unlike his stint under Antonio Conte, Batshuayi finally looks comfortable at Chelsea.
Under Conte, much of the Belgian’s criticism focused on his hold-up play and his inability to make effective runs behind opponents’ back lines. Look no further than the mid-week Carabao Cup match vs. Manchester United to see how Batshuayi has reinvented his game under Frank Lampard. While he still gets caught up behind defenders and is rendered ineffective from time-to-time, he’s become a more complete forward.
The most complete part of Batshuayi’s game, however, is not in the improved areas. Batshuayi’s ability to create chances in the most desperate times has earned him quite a reputation. All of Batshuayi’s aforementioned goals came in massive moments. He’s etched in the Chelsea history books forever. But does he deserve the nod over Giroud for the long term? That question can only be answered by the Belgian himself.
Abraham is undoubtedly Chelsea’s No. 9 going forward. Batshuayi must therefore decide if he’d like a chance to start elsewhere or be a super sub. He has the talent to start, which is why this is such a peculiar situation. Things are shaping up as a choice between the desire to start and his love for Chelsea.
With Olivier Giroud constantly hinting at a departure, Batshuayi could be forced to make a decision on his future rather quickly. The Blues will be hesitant to let Giroud, a more than capable cup striker, leave should Batshuayi have any doubts about a future.
Luckily, it seems the Belgian loves the club. However, he must make his intentions clear as the January window is quickly approaching.
