
# CBS Interactive Chief Jim Lanzone To Exit, Marc DeBevoise Named New CEO

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dawn Chmielewski**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/dawnchmielewski/2019/11/04/cbs-interactive-chief-jim-lanzone-exits-marc-debevoise-named-ceo/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2797779143&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesTechTwitter)

CBS Interactive CEO Jim Lanzone, the Silicon Valley entrepreneur who helped lead the venerable media company into he digital era, is leaving the company at the end of the year to join the venture capital firm Benchmark as executive-in-residence. He’ll be succeeded in the top job by Marc DeBevoise, CBS Interactive’s current president and chief operating officer, who will oversee the division’s 25 digital properties, including its collection of websites, mobile apps and streaming services.
Many had viewed Lanzone as a likely candidate to oversee the combined digital assets of CBS and Viacom, whose properties include the ad-supported streaming service, Pluto TV, once the planned merger is completed in early December. But the entrepreneur was yearning to run his own show and began discussing the transition with DeBevoise over breakfast on Super Bowl Sunday.
Lanzone joined CBS with its March 2011 acquisition of his startup, Clicker, a search engine for licensed online TV content. The executive, who’d previously also led the turn-around and sale of Ask.com, brought a tech-insider’s sensibility to the network at a time when TV viewing habits were changing.
When he joined, CBS restricted online access to its most popular shows, allowing viewers to watch week-old episodes on their computer desktops. It lacked a mobile app that would allow people to watch its shows on smartphones or on the device that had the fastest adoption rate of any consumer product in history, the iPad.
“The internet was coming like a freight train coming straight at the heart of premium content. The digital group was pushing hard. The corporate group was like, ‘We know we need this, but we are a broadcast company and that’s the crown jewel,’” Lanzone told Forbes in an interview earlier this year.
Lanzone recruited DeBevoise, a digital media executive at rival Starz, to help architect CBS’ future with an eye on the competitive landscape. They worked together to build internal support for a digital offering.
CBS announced the launch of CBS All Access on October 16, 2014—one day after HBO grabbed headlines with news that it would start an internet-only offering. The new service went live with half its current library of 10,000 TV episodes and no original programming or NFL games (those would come later). Showtime’s over-the-top service debuted in a year later, in July 2015.
The two streaming services now boast 8 million subscribers, a milestone reached two years ahead of schedule.
In addition to CBS All Access, Lanzone is credited with launching a number of streaming services, including its 24-hour streaming news channel, CBSN, its sports-focused CBS Sports HQ, and the direct-to-consumer version of the entertainment-obsessed cable network, ET Live. The collection of CBS Interactive sites, which also includes Cnet, GameSpot, TV Guide and Metacritic, reach 190 million monthly users—up from 70 million in 2011.
