
# tix on sale: Heilung, Mayhem/Abbath, Bat For Lashes, EarthGang, more

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:15:00+00:00**

Author: **BrooklynVegan Staff**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/tix-on-sale-heilung-mayhemabbath-bat-for-lashes-earthgang-more/)


        ON PRESALE AT 10 AM
      
Tickets for the Bat For Lashes show at Town Hall go on AmEx presale at 10 AM.
Tickets for the EarthGang and Mick Jenkins show at Warsaw go on various presales at 10 AM.
Tickets for the newly-added Heilung show at Webster Hall go on AmEx presale at 10 AM. The first night is sold out.
Tickets for the Mayhem and Abbath show at Webster Hall (as part of the Decibel Tour) go on AmEx presale at 10 AM.

        ON PRESALE AT NOON
      
Tickets for the Stella Donnelly show at Music Hall of Williamsburg go on AmEx presale at noon.

        ON SALE NOW
      
BrooklynVegan is proud to present J. Robbins of Jawbox at Saint Vitus on 12/6 (tickets).
BrooklynVegan is proud to present The Movielife‘s holiday show at Rough Trade on 12/29 (tickets).
SCREENING NEXT ON THE BROOKLYNVEGAN-PRESENTED MUSIC DRIVEN SERIES AT NITEHAWK:11/6: Slayer’s The Repentless Trilogy at Nitehawk Prospect Park11/13: The Music Driven program at Nitehawk’s Shorts Festival at Nitehawk Williamsburg11/21: Depeche Mode: SPIRITS in the Forest at Nitehawk Prospect Park
ENTER TO WIN TICKETS TO:11/7: King Diamond, Uncle Acid & the Deadbeats and Idle Hands at Kings Theatre11/16: Karen O & Danger Mouse’s Lux Prima at Kings Theatre
SOME UPCOMING SHOWS AT BROOKLYN BOWL12/4-12/7: The Hold Steady “Massive Nights” holiday shows12/29: Deer Tick with Robert Ellis1/4: The Felice Brothers
SOME UPCOMING SHOWS AT WARSAW:12/5-12/6: The Menzingers and Tigers Jaw with Culture Abuse4/23-4/24: Current 93
SOME UPCOMING SHOWS AT LE POISSON ROUGE:11/19: Pigface11/22: The Low Anthem12/5: Thurston Moore12/6: Bedouine12/13: Pile12/20: Kevin Barnes & Christina Schneider
SOME UPCOMING SHOWS AT CAPITOL THEATRE:12/11: Yola12/13-12/14: “Home for the Holidays” Celebrating Jerry Garcia12/31: Trombone Shorty & Orleans Avenue2/55: Calexico and Iron & Wine

        MORE UPCOMING SHOWS
      
Karen O and Danger Mouse bring the songs of their new album Lux Prima to Kings Theatre 11/14 (tickets).
King Diamond, Uncle Acid & the Deadbeats, and Idle Hands play Kings Theatre 11/16 (tickets are on sale, and you can enter to win a pair).
Bon Iver & TU Dance bring Come Through to Kings Theatre 12/4-12/5 (tickets)
Ricky Gervais brings his new stand-up tour, SuperNature, to Hulu Theater on 5/14 (sold out) and 5/15 (tickets)
—-
Browse our “Tickets On Sale” tag for more recently announced NYC shows.
Follow BrooklynVegan on FACEBOOK, TWITTER and INSTAGRAM.
Browse our NYC Concert Calendar for shows happening today and every day – comedy shows, heavy metal concerts (courtesy of our heavy metal blog), and free shows included.
Sign up for our weekly e-newsletter.
