
# Lin Bin: Xiaomi R&D team increased from 400 to 3700 in three years -

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:41:46+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/lin-bin-xiaomi-rd-team-increased-from-400-to-3700-in-three-years/)

Rate this post
Earlier today, Xiaomi released the CC9 Pro which comes with a 108MP Penta-camera setup. After the event, Xiaomi VP, Lin Bin, said that the company’s camera department has put in a lot of work over the past few years. According to him, Xiaomi’s R&D team has grown from about 400 to more than 3,700 in just three years. This goes to show how fast the company is growing.
Lin Bin has been off the media since Xiaomi’s IPO listing. The company has experienced a series of organizational restructuring since its listing. In addition, the company now emphasizes R&D with a focus on the camera department. 
In May 2018, Lei Jun sent an internal letter to Xiaomi employees saying that the company will set up a separate camera department. However, this department will be a sub-department in the mobile phone department. Today, we can see the result of the camera department. For the first time, a Xiaomi phone tops DxOMark ranking (at least joint first). 
Lin Bin also revealed that Xiaomi MIX Alpha was a very radical attempt by Xiaomi on the phone display. According to Lin Bin, the several adjustments after its IPO listing is paying off for the company. It is consistently expanding and employing more staff. 

        Via
      
