
# Mercedes-Benz GLC facelift spied testing in India

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:50:00+00:00**

Author: **Jaiveer Mehra**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/mercedes-benz-glc-facelift-spied-testing-in-india-414715)

Mildly camouflaged test mule reveals facelift’s restyled bumpers, revised headlamps and new alloy-wheel design.
It was earlier this year at the Geneva motor show that Mercedes-Benz gave the GLC a facelift in international markets. Now, first images of a test mule of the car have emerged showing it being tested on Indian roads.
As is evident from the pictures, the cosmetic changes are in line with the international GLC with revised headlamps with new DRLs that now frame the headlamp unit, a tweaked grille, revised bumpers and new multi-spoke alloy wheels.
On the international model, updates to the cabin bring with it a choice of touchscreens, including a large, 10.25-inch unit with touchscreen functionality and the new MBUX system. Also part of the updates is an all-digital instrument cluster just like the one seen on other, more expensive Mercedes models, along with a few revised control surfaces. While the test mule’s interiors cannot be seen, one can expect most of these updates to the cabin to make their way to the India-spec model.
Interestingly, the model being tested is registered as the GLC 220d. The current model is offered with the same nomenclature powered by Mercedes’ 2.1-litre BS4-compliant diesel engine. However the facelift will drop this old 2.1-litre unit in favour of Mercedes’ BS6-compliant 2.0-litre diesel engine currently being offered in models such as the Mercedes C-class and E-class. A BS6-compliant petrol motor will also be on offer. Both units will be paired with the company’s 9-speed automatic gearbox.
Expect Mercedes to launch the GLC facelift in India sometime early next year.

        Also read:
      

        
          2020 Mercedes-Benz GLE India bookings open
        
      
