
# Marlon Moraes vows to redeem himself; expects to face best version of Jose Aldo

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lucas Rezende**

Original: [Bloody Elbow](https://www.bloodyelbow.com/2019/11/3/20946353/marlon-moraes-vows-to-redeem-himself-expects-to-face-best-version-of-jose-aldo)

After a failed title attempt against Henry Cejudo, which ended in a TKO loss, Marlon Moraes will now welcome former featherweight champion Jose Aldo to bantamweight in December.
In order to prepare for the fight and rebound from his loss to Cejudo, Marlon tells AG Fight he will plan for the best possible version of Aldo. He isn’t paying mind to Jose’s previous issues with weight cutting as he drops down to 135 lbs.
“Jose Aldo is a different kind of guy, he’s good in every aspect of the game, he has nothing to prove to anyone. In this weight class, I think I’m condition to go toe to toe against anyone,” he said. “I’m going out there to win, no matter where the fight takes place. I won’t run away from any situation.
“I’m not looking at Jose Aldo as someone who’s dropping from weight, I’m preparing for the Aldo we’ve always seen get good results, I’m going out there to face the best Aldo possible. I don’t believe he will have trouble making weight, I think he’ll be healthy, very prepared. We’ll be equals, and I want to redeem myself from my last fight, show the world I’m here to stay.”
Before his TKO losso to Cejudo in June, Moraes (22-6-1) was on a four-fight winning streak, defeating the likes of John Dodson, Raphael Assuncao, Jimmie Rivera and Aljamain Sterling.
Now, the 31-year-old is expected to take on Aldo at UFC 245, on December 14, in Las Vegas, Nevada. The card is scheduled to be headlined by a welterweight title fight between the champion, Kamaru Usman, and former interim title holder Colby Covington.
