
# Saturday horse racing tips: Back this 4/1 horse who has won almost HALF his career starts

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dave Masters, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/dave-masters/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/betting/free-bet-tips-horse-betting-20789002)

Brian Ellison scooped last weekend’s Old Roan Chase at Aintree with Forest Bihan and while his string are in such good form, he can repeat the trick courtesy of last year’s winner Definitly Red (4/1) in Saturday’s feature Charlie Hall Chase (3.40pm) at Wetherby.
The selection has been a brilliant servant to the much-respected Geordie trainer, winning 14 of his 30 career starts and being placed on another seven occasions, including a third in this same event two years’ ago.
Ellison is leaving no stone unturned in his bid to land this prestigious prize again and ‘Definitly’ worked with recent Carlisle scorer Duke Debarry at the West Yorkshire sweat bowl earlier last month under big-race jockey Danny Cook who reported him feeling “in great shape”.
The ground was soft when he was touched off in 2017, while last year it was good so the drying surface and a settled forecast should be in his favour with Cook adding that better ground just helps him “pick up a little better”.
The old adage ‘horses for courses’ certainly seems to apply to this horse at Wetherby as on four spins, he’s scored twice and finished in the frame twice and if he completes the hat-trick, the Cheltenham Gold Cup in which he was brought down last season could be the big target again.
ITV4 also shows the Champion Chase (2.25pm) from Down Royal where RSA Insurance Novices’ Chase third Delta Work begins his campaign, but he might have it all to do against Somerset sorcerer Paul Nicholls’s King George hero Clan Des Obeaux (2/1).
Sure, the fancy could only muster fifth in the Gold Cup after that, but he was still on the premises two fences out and might just not have quite stayed the stiff extended 3m 2f at Prestbury Park that day.
‘Clan’ then ran a fine second behind next year’s Gold Cup favourite Kemboy over almost a couple of furlongs less and the return to 3m this Saturday should be absolutely perfect for the ideal beginning to the new term.
Wetherby also hosts the bet365 Hurdle (3.05pm) in which Unowhatimeanharry, who was rather written off in May’s Champion Stayers’ Hurdle by the bookies when prevailing at 16-1, will be a huge draw with his status as one of the most popular horses in training.
But preference goes to duffel coat-wearing handler Nigel Twiston-Davies’s Ballyandy (2/1) who with the weight allowance is similar in the ratings to Unowhatimeanharry, but has the benefit of a recent pipe-opener at Chepstow.
This is the first time he has attempted three miles, but the way in which he made some progress before the third last hurdle and the way he plugged on steadily last time indicates that the additional distance could be the making of him.
An abundance of riches for racing enthusiasts includes the Breeders’ Cup on Saturday evening when Derby winner Anthony Van Dyck (5/2) must have a wonderful shout in the Turf (11.40pm) as he was pencilled in for this ahead of recently-retired wonder mare Magical.
