
# Peru Two drugs mule Michaella McCollum forced to watch lesbian sex romps in prison

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:14:10+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/peru-two-drugs-mule-michaella-20802256)

Peru Two d rugs mule Michaella McCollum has spoken out lesbian sex romps on bunk beds during her time behind bars. 
The mum-of-two spent three years in a Peruvian jail with Scot Melissa Reid from Lenzie, East Dumbartonshire. 
The pair were sentenced to six years and eight months in prison after trying to smuggle 11kg of cocaine out of Peru’s capital, Lima in August 2013, but were both released in 2016. 
Michaella is breaking her silence on what she and Melissa witnessed in the South American cells among female inmates, the Irish Mirror reports .
 
The 26-year-old wrote: "With all the chetos around, I shouldn’t have been surprised to discover a couple of them going at it on one of the bunks.
“I didn’t know where to look but they barely acknowledged me.
"When you’re sharing a bedroom with 99 other people any right of privacy is out the window.
“You see each other shower, you see everyone peeing, what’s a bit of sex between you and your most intimate 200 mates?"
She continued: “Not all the disturbances in the workshops were the result of violence. I was there one day, middle of the bench as usual, women to my right and left.
“I was chatting when I got a nudge from the girl on the other side of me. I turned around.
 
“The girl on the other side of her was off the bench, her trousers and pants round her ankles.
“Just like that, right next to me, in front of hundreds of prying eyes. It was a weird situation.
“Every single person around the table carried on sewing and chatting or watching as if it was the most normal thing in the world.”
She added: “Honestly, I think we were just grateful for something to break up the day.
"After they finished, they kissed, pulled up her pants and got on with their sewing.
“Maybe it was normal. Like scratching an itch. A couple of times a day you’d see two or three couples or triples at it.
“Often it was between chetos and others but sometimes two very feminine-looking women would go at it as well.”
