
# Eddie Murphy 'tried to stop Whitney Houston marrying Bobby Brown' on wedding day

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:55:28+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/eddie-murphy-tried-stop-whitney-20829364)

Eddie Murphy allegedly made a last minute bid to stop Whitney Houston marrying Bobby Brown, according to a new memoir by the singer's closest friend.
Robyn Crawford has penned the book that shares intimate details of her friendship with superstar singer Whitney.
Crawford was the singer's best friend for more than three decades and she has recalled how Whitney was once infatuated with Hollywood star Eddie Murphy.
In her book, Crawford has revealed that while Bobby Brown pursued the attentions of Whitney in 1989, she was hoping for a bit of romance with Murphy, and "lost herself" in the process.
Crawford wrote: "She was more interested in Eddie Murphy, but he was elusive.”
They were supposedly meant to get together for a dinner date at Whitney's New Jersey mansion and she went all out to impress Murphy.
Crawford wrote about that night: "One day when Eddie was supposed to come for dinner, I caught a glimpse of Whitney.
"She was wearing a black dress and low-heeled slingbacks. For a moment, I thought ‘Boy, I wish she was doing that for me.'"
It was to end in sadness though as Murphy "never showed up that night,” leaving Whitney devastated by the rejection.
On the morning of her wedding day on July 18, 1992, Whitney was getting ready to say "I do" to Bobby Brown, when she received a surprise call from Murphy.
He was allegedly making a last ditch attempt to stop Whitney from tying the knot with the singer but it was to fall on deaf ears.
Crawford recalled: "[That day] Eddie Murphy called to say she was making a mistake, but she pressed ahead.”
Whitney's health and wellbeing would be on a slippery slope from then on and Crawford said that it was difficult watching her friend becoming isolated.
She is hoping that her book will redress the view of Whitney and share what a 'big hearted and generous friend' she was.
Crawford said: "I have a lot of beautiful, wonderful, exciting, adventurous, loving, caring memories of Whitney.
"Whitney was a beautiful friend, the friend that I prayed for."
Whitney's tragic death at the age of 48 came amid her spiralling descent into debt after blowing her $100million fortune on drugs.
She drowned in a bath at the Beverly Hilton hotel in February 2012, having binged on cocaine, cannabis and prescription drugs before her final moments.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
