
# Elon Musk Asks This Simple Question At Interviews To Spot Lying Candidates

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Izza Sofia**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407253/Elon-Musk-Asks-This-Simple-Question-At-Interviews-To-Spot-Lying-Candidates/)

Image via Phil Stafford / Shutterstock.com With urgent roles to fill in companies, recruiters might not always have the time to check their candidates’ backgrounds. Sometimes, they will come across interviewees who lie about their experiences to get the job. Tesla CEO Elon Musk has a trick to supposedly weed liars out from a pool of applicants who seem too good to be true. As reported by CNBC, Musk recommends asking this simple question: “What were the most difficult issues you faced and how did you solve them?” Musk revealed that through this question, he can tell if a candidate was the one who “took ownership and found a solution” to the problem, instead of just piggybacking on the efforts of former teammates. “Those who solved it know the exact little details,” Musk added. He believes that candidates will be able to explain on “multiples levels” about the struggles they faced and the strategies they adopted to solve the issue. However, those who lie and claim they are problem-solvers can only go “one level and then get stuck,” Musk explained. Advertisement Advertisement “Those who struggled at a problem will never forget it,” he elaborated. Expert interview coach Barry Drexler says that interviewees should understand that it’s okay to not meet every requirement in the job description. However, it is important to be honest about their shortcomings and give each answer a positive spin. When asked if one possesses managerial skills, an example of a good response would be to explain that you don’t have experience with such roles, but had been given the opportunity to lead certain projects and delegate different roles to coworkers with successful results in the past. From there, add that if you can achieve specific results, then perhaps you are able to lead the team in that particular company, Drexler adds. The tip is to always be truthful when discussing areas where you are lacking, and “turn it from what you’re unsure about to what you know.” [via CNBC, opening image via Phil Stafford / Shutterstock.com]
