
# Birmingham Airport named as one of most likely to lose passengers' luggage

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:30:00+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/birmingham-airport-named-one-most-17193478)

Birmingham Airport has been named and shamed as one of the most likely in the country to lose your luggage.
The Civil Aviation Authority, responsible for handling disputes that are unresolved by the airline, received over 2,000 unresolved luggage complaints in the past five years.
MoneySupermarket did some research to find out which UK airports are the worst for this, and unsurprisngly all the London ones came in the top ten.
London Heathrow is the worst airport for lost baggage, with 397 per cent more complaints than the average UK airport and more than double that of London Gatwick, which came second in the list.
Birmingham Airport is fourth, with 100 unresolved lost luggage claims, with Manchester Airport slightly ahead, in third.
The research also found that on average, passengers wait nearly eight days for luggage to be returned by an airline, with eight per cent of people claiming they never saw their belongings again.
Flights between the UK and Spain have the highest number of lost or delayed luggage claims, and damaged baggage is also an issue, with 32 per cent experiencing broken suitcases or items within their suitcase when flying to or from the UK.
 
Anna Sant, travel insuranceexpert at MoneySuperMarket, advised: "Preparing for your trip with items such as luggage tags can help any lost items find their way back to you.
"Many airlines have information sheets for anyone whose luggage goes missing, which details next steps and acts as written confirmation. Noting the contents and value of your cases will also assist with any subsequent insurance claims.
"It's therefore vital you take out travel insurance with the right level of cover as soon as you book your trip. Most policies will cover the full cost of your belongings but it's worth double checking before proceeding with a policy."
Birmingham Airport is the UK's third largest airport outside London and the seventh largest overall.
By 2033, Birmingham Airport is forecast to handle around 18 million passengers a year, an increase of 40% compared to current passengers numbers.
 
Size: Seventh largest in UK. Third largest outside London.
Location: Bickenhill, Solihull
Runways: 3,052 length, 10,013 ft.
Passengers: 12,445,295 (as of 2018)
Busiest domestic routes: Belfast City (275,000 passengers), Edinburgh (267,000), Belfast International (252,000), Glasgow International (234,000), Aberdeen (112,560).
Busiest international routes: Dublin (923,000 passengers), Dubai (710,517), Amsterdam (703,047), Paris-Charles de Gaulle (412,080), Palma de Mallorca (383,348).
Operating base for: Flybe, Jet2.com, Ryanair, Thomas Cook Airlines and TUI Airways.
 
London Heathrow - 636
London Gatwick - 280
Manchester - 186
Birmingham - 100
London Stansted - 61
Edinburgh - 47
London Luton - 27
Glasgow - 26
Newcastle - 23
London City Airport - 15
