
# Okongwu’s double-double leads USC over Florida A&M 77-48

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:08:04+00:00**

Author: **BETH HARRIS**

Original: [The Seattle Times](https://www.seattletimes.com/sports/okongwus-double-double-leads-usc-over-florida-am-77-48/)

LOS ANGELES (AP) — Onyeka Okongwu had 20 points, 13 rebounds and eight blocked shots in his college debut, leading Southern California to a 77-48 victory over Florida A&M in the teams’ season opener on Tuesday night.
Okongwu is part of one of the nation’s top recruiting classes that includes Isaiah Mobley, who had 17 points and seven rebounds. Okongwu, from nearby Chino Hills High which produced Lonzo Ball, tied a school record with his blocks.
Both teams struggled out of the gate, shooting just over 30% and combining to go 3 of 13 at the free throw line in the first half when the Trojans led 24-23.
USC pulled away in the second half, opening with a 25-10 run propelled by Okongwu and Mobley who, along with Ethan Anderson, gave the Trojans three freshmen in the starting lineup. Senior Nick Rakocevic fouled out with four points and three rebounds.
DJ Jones was the only A&M player in double figures with 12 points. The Rattlers shot 32% from the field, finished 7 of 15 at the free-throw line and made one 3-pointer.
BIG PICTURE
Florida A&M: The Rattlers were 12-19 last season. They face a tough nonconference schedule, with upcoming road games against Seton Hall, Tennessee, Washington State and Iowa State before starting MEAC play. They’re picked to finish ninth in the league after going 9-7 last season for their first winning record since 2006-07.
Advertising
USC: The Trojans have 10 newcomers to mix with Rakocevic, Jonah Mathews, Elijah Weaver and Chuck O’Bannon. They beat No. 10 Villanova in an exhibition game last month with a roster that boasts versatility and an ability to guard multiple positions.
UP NEXT
Florida A&M: The Rattlers head to Honolulu to play Hawaii on Friday in the first of three games at the Rainbow Classic.
USC: Hosts Portland on Friday in the second of three straight home games to open the season.
___
More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/Collegebasketball and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25
BETH HARRIS
