
# How Conversational Interfaces And Chatbots Are Reshaping Contingent Labor Management

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ted Sergott**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2019/11/06/how-conversational-interfaces-and-chatbots-are-reshaping-contingent-labor-management/)

How would your workday change if you could converse with a computer as if it was a human? Imagine you’re in a two-hour department meeting when your team leader says she just got budget approval for the extra headcount you requested. Instead of wasting time for the meeting to end, you grab your phone and send an email or text to your vendor management system (VMS), the technology platform your organization uses to source and manage contingent workers.In your message, you ask the VMS to create a request for a new software engineer in your city. Within seconds, you receive a reply from the VMS with a question about the pay range for the position. Once confirmed, you get a final response that the request has been initiated, and you should start receiving candidates within a few days.
This is just one scenario in which AI-powered conversational interfaces and chatbots are removing the friction from management processes and helping contingent workforce managers realize new gains in efficiency.

        The Evolution Of Conversational Interfaces And Chatbots
      
From Siri to Amazon Echo, conversational interfaces seem to be everywhere. At their simplest level, these interfaces leverage machine learning and natural language processing (NLP) to enable users to communicate with software via text or voice as if it was human.
This technology has frequently manifested itself in the form of chatbots -- some more sophisticated than others. In the B2B space, their usage has historically been limited to pop-up software tips. If you’re a new user, this can be helpful, but for most, these pop-ups amount to little more than spam. But what if these interfaces could help with transactional tasks related to key work functions -- and even provide personalized, actionable intelligence that delivered real value?

        The Power Of Omnichannel
      
With the average manager using multiple devices, platforms and systems each day, B2B software solutions that provide seamless omnichannel access to tasks can be beneficial. In conversational interfaces and contingent labor management use cases, this means ensuring these tools are available in devices and systems that users utilize daily. This involves behind-the-scenes integrations between your system(s) of choice and your VMS so that users aren’t required to log into a new system to engage its conversational interface.
In other words, a user could simply send an email, text message or instant message to the system chatbot and get a response in real time -- or start the process, stop and then restart when convenient. Imagine the efficiency this could potentially drive for resource- and time-challenged managers looking to execute key tasks, including sourcing open positions or scheduling candidate interviews, with maximum speed and minimal mental drain.

        Getting Into The (Work)Flow
      
Sourcing and hiring highly specialized, in-demand contingent workers by Fortune 1000 organizations is hard. For contingent workforce stakeholders, AI’s potential to drive faster execution and smarter decision making during everyday sourcing workflows is exciting.
When you create a request, you interact with the chatbot and add details regarding the requisition. Then, the platform’s AI goes to work, processing loads of data to provide related insights regarding the optimal location, pay rate, skill requirements and more.
If existing workers of yours -- those who are just finishing up an assignment -- are an ideal fit for the role, the chatbot can alert you.

        Keys To Successful Implementation
      
If your organization is thinking of incorporating an AI-powered conversational interface or chatbot into its technology or processes, here are some tips:
1. Put Guardrails In Place: A conversational interface that tries to account for a wide range of misspellings, dialects and slang will be less likely to provide the type of quality experience that ensures adoption. Conversely, a chatbot that allows less “free form” text may drive a higher communication success rate and superior user experience -- provided it’s not too restrictive. The best bots will provide the right level of conversational ability given your business goals and user needs.
2. Offer Flexibility In Messaging: Chat is frequently associated with short bursts of text, but some may prefer to have one or two longer interactions with a chatbot versus five to 10 shorter interactions. This is true if they’re using a channel such as email that lends itself to lengthier communications. To ensure an outstanding user experience, the conversational interface should be able to handle either type of query.
3. Don’t Overemphasize Voice: The average person sends and receives dozens of texts daily, but how many use voice recognition to send texts? Some studies peg the number at just over 40%, and there’s a good chance your chatbot will see similar usage. So, while voice recognition is a nice feature to have, other factors may be more important in how often and effectively a conversational interface is employed.
4. Focus On Quality, Not Quantity: Don’t boil the ocean when it comes to the scope of tasks a conversational interface will handle. When incorporating a new chatbot into organizational processes, consider focusing on three to five things, and then expand. If you start small but provide a rock-solid experience, you’ll help ensure adoption and program success.
According to one publication, 80% of enterprises will use chatbots by the end of 2020. Yet, challenges remain -- a UJET poll reported that 58% of respondents found chatbots were not as effective as expected. That’s why it’s critical you take a strategic approach to incorporating chatbots and conversational interfaces into your programs. By doing so, you’ll increase the odds that these AI-based technologies will help drive greater efficiency.
We can also expect to see chatbots getting progressively smarter in the next year or two, using machine learning and real-time analytics to not only help speed up execution, but also provide actionable intelligence that drives smarter decision making. For leading organizations, leveraging these leading-edge chatbots and conversational interfaces will provide a compelling way to strengthen their contingent workforce programs and get a leg up on the competition.
