
# China developing new missiles after US warning and Royal Navy threat

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:08:55+00:00**

Author: **Edd Moore**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/china-developing-new-missiles-after-3502033)

The first pictures have emerged of a Chinese bomber carrying what is believed to be air-launched ballistic missile, amid concerns from the United States over Beijing's growing nuclear arsenal.
The images, published in a magazine in China, appear to show a H6-N bomber carrying the weapon.
China has made no secret of its pursuit for an air-launched ballistic missile capability.
That has previously provoked a reaction from the US, with the Pentagon fearing China is eyeing a "viable nuclear triad" - being able to fire weapons from land, sea and air.
The latest edition of Modern Ships Magazine carries the images, just months after China issued a warning to the Royal Navy and the US Navy amid tensions in the Gulf.
China warned it would view any Royal Navy or US warships entering disputed warships as "hostile action" in the wake of the Royal Marines' capture of an Iranian oil tanker off the coast of Gibraltar in September.
Speculation is mounting that the images from China show a developing air-launched ballistic missile, though the plane is described simply as being able to carry "large external objects" in the captions.
Only Russia currently has an air-launched ballistic missile system in use. The hypersonic Kinzhal was launched in 2017 and can be fired from a MiG-31 interceptor.
The concept is one that both the UK and the US has attempted to develop. But America's plans, based on the Royal Navy's existing sea-based nuclear deterrent, linked to Plymouth's Devonport Naval Base, were abandoned.
Britain and the US have not yet responded to the images. But there has been tension between the Royal Navy and China in the past - pre-dating September's incidents involving Iran.
In 2018, China accused the UK of "provocative actions" when Plymouth-based Royal Navy amphibious assault ship HMS Albion sailed close to the disputed Paracel islands in the South China Sea.
The Chinese told HMS Albion to leave in "an aggressive manner", taking position "irresponsibly close" to the ship, the BBC's Jonathan Beale was told.  The warship, carrying a contingent of Royal Marines, then docked at Ho Chi Minh City, in Vietnam.
The Royal Navy insisted it was conducting a freedom of navigation exercise "in full compliance with international law".
But China claimed the UK had entered its territorial waters without permission.  In a statement to news agency Reuters, China's foreign ministry said HMS Albion had "infringed on China's sovereignty".
