
# Mercedes-Benz V-class Elite launched at Rs 1.1 crore

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Soham Thakur**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/mercedes-benz-v-class-elite-launched-at-rs-11-crore-414803)

New top-spec V-class trim features updated styling and a new diesel engine.
Mercedes-Benz has launched a new top-spec variant of its V-class luxury people mover, dubbed Elite at Rs 1.1 crore (ex-showroom, India). Based on the V-class facelift that was introduced in international markets earlier this year, the Elite variant is available in the long-wheelbase (5,140mm) and six-seater form only.
Styling changes on the Elite include a new front bumper with a larger air dam and chrome highlights, tweaked LED headlights and a revised front grille. There are a total of seven colour options - Steel Blue, Selenite Grey, Graphite Grey Dark, Obsidian Black Metallic, Cavensite Blue Metallic, Rock Crystal White Metallic and Brilliant Silver Metallic - and three wheel designs (from 17-inchers to 18-inch alloys) that can be specced. 
The interior remains largely unchanged, though it does get new dashboard trim, turbine-style AC vents from newer Mercedes models and a larger display for the infotainment system. Its second row of seats are power adjustable - they can be reclined up to 49 degrees - and come with ventilation and massage functions, along with an adjustable leg rest.
As for the features, the Elite gets Nappa leather upholstery (silk beige or black), dual-zone automatic climate control, ambient lighting, a folding and movable centre table at the rear, a 640W Burmester sound system that includes 15 speakers, a 360-degree parking camera and a rear window that opens for easier access to the boot. A panoramic sunroof is an optional extra. Standard safety kit includes six airbags, ABS with EBD, attention assist and active parking assist.
The Elite gets Mercedes’ newer BS6-compliant OM654 2.0-litre, four-cylinder, turbo-diesel engine that produces 163hp and 380Nm of torque. The figures are identical to the older OM651 engine that powers the existing Expression and Exclusive variants. The V-class Elite also gets a 9-speed torque-converter automatic gearbox in place of the 7-speed unit on the other two variants. Mercedes claims a 0-100kph time of 11 seconds.
Mercedes-Benz India launched the V-class here in January 2019 at Rs 68.40 lakh in two variants - these two trims are based on the pre-facelift model and will continue to be on sale. The entry-level Expression variant is based on the extra-long wheelbase (5,370mm) and is available as a seven-seater only. Meanwhile, the Exclusive has a shorter wheelbase (5,140mm) and is a six-seater only.
In terms of its rivals, the Mercedes-Benz V-class as a whole will compete with the upcoming Toyota Vellfire MPV. 
Mercedes claims that sales of the V-class have exceeded expectation, with the brand having registered figures in the triple digits.

        Also see:
      

        
          2019 Mercedes-Benz V 220d review, test drive
        
      
