
# Liverpool splutter their way to Champions League victory as Man City test looms large

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:49:47+00:00**

Author: **David Maddock, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-maddock/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-splutter-way-champions-league-20820833)

It was supposed to be a spectacular, an explosion of sound and colour against the Champions League whipping boys.
But if the sky was illuminated around Anfield, then it came from the bonfire display in Stanley Park outside, as Liverpool spluttered, coughed and fizzled damply to a victory that puts them on the verge of qualifying from the group stage.
At least Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain had some spark about him, the midfielder scoring his fourth goal in his last four appearances to eventually subdue a limited but spirited Genk opponent, who had briefly threatened fireworks of their own.
Jurgen Klopp had vowed solemnly Liverpool’s focus would not shift to Sunday until after this important European encounter.
He could have fooled us. With the likes of Firmino, Mane and Henderson rested, Manchester City loomed large even through a night choked with smoke.
 
Liverpool had scored four goals in their last two European games, but there was never a hint there would be a third goal festival, the home side so subdued it seemed they had been given a pet tranquilliser to guard against loud explosions.
There were few of those inside Anfield. Perhaps it is hard to focus on such lowly opposition when perhaps the most pivotal game of the season looms so large in the windscreen ahead.
At least they got the job done, Klopp desperate for the chance to rest players in the final two group games victory would bring… and now he has that chance.
If they beat Napoli, who are poor travellers, they will be through as group toppers. They may not even require any more points, should the result of Salzburg’s visit to Genk go the right way.
Yet it so nearly went wrong here, the home side never out of second gear for the entire first half, and paying the price when the Belgian visitors levelled Gini Wijnaldum’s instinctive opener.
There seemed little evidence of the drama to come as Wijnaldum flicked into the roof of the net after two visiting defenders ineptly failed to deal with James Milner’s cross.
From there, we expected a repeat of a 60s scoreline, with Salah twice shooting wide when well placed, and Naby Keita also spurning a chance.
There is something troubling about Liverpool this season though, for all their triumphant march through the Premier League campaign so far.
 
Coming into the game, they had not kept a clean sheet in seven matches, stretching back to September, and Genk ensured that worrying run was extended when they snatched that shock equaliser that exploded like the pyrotechnics that lit up the night sky.
There was a warning when Alexander-Arnold’s last ditch lunge denied Ally Mbwana Samatta, but from the resulting corner, he was left completely unmarked to fire home a ferocious header.
There were surely fireworks in the half time dressing room from Klopp, his side too lethargic by far in the first period. And that translated onto the pitch after the break, as Liverpool looked more explosive.
It was Divock Origi against his former club who set the tone, as he burst down the left to open up the Belgian defence.
From there, Liverpool worked the ball to Salah, who cleverly fed back to Oxlade-Chamberlain and his shot on the turn again showed his instinct for goal, as it fired across the keeper into the far corner.
The midfielder has struggled since returning from a serious knee injury, but he knows where the goal is…and given he loves scoring against City, this was a timely reminder.
Even then, Genk had a chance to level, but Alisson saved smartly from Bryan Heynen, and somehow Klopp’s spluttering side kept their European flame burning.
