
# Naoya Inoue vs Nonito Donaire – LIVE: Stream, UK start time, TV channel, how to watch online and latest info

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:24:12+00:00**

Author: **Adam Hamdani**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/live/naoya-inoue-vs-nonito-donaire-live-stream-uk-time-watch-boxing-online-wbss-today-a9188866.html)

The bantamweight edition of the World Boxing Super Series reaches its end today as ‘The Monster’ Naoya Inoue fights Nonito Donaire for the Muhammad Ali trophy.
The IBF, WBA (Super) and Ring Magazine belts are all up for grabs in this unification clash which is being described as ‘Japan’s greatest ever fight’.
We’ll have round by round updates and scorecards for you, so follow our liveblog below.

        
          Please allow a moment for the liveblog to load...
        
      
Show latest update2019-11-07T12:24:11.963ZNational anthems time...
2019-11-07T12:20:30.516ZHere comes Inoue to a huge reception. For a man of only 5'5, he is scary looking.
2019-11-07T12:18:59.693ZThe 37,000 capacity Super Arena looks packed out - a great occasion for the country.
2019-11-07T12:17:23.220ZHere we go! Nonito Donaire, the defending WBA (Super) champion is on his way to the ring. What a mighty task he has ahead.
Advertisement2019-11-07T12:08:17.043ZOK, up next it's the main event! Naoya Inoue faces Nonito Donaire in the World Boxing Super Series bantamweight final.
2019-11-07T12:06:11.303ZThe results are in... Nourdine Oubaali retains his WBC bantamweight belt by unanimous decision! Disappointment for Takuma Inoue who suffers his first career defeat.
2019-11-07T11:51:52.260ZVictory here will take Naoya Inoue one step closer to becoming undisputed champion of the bantamweight division. He wants to become the greatest fighter of all-time, not bad ambitions.
"A year ago this tournament started, a year later I am in the final against Nonito Donaire, and I am very grateful for that,” said 26-year-old Inoue.
“I’ve been watching Nonito’s fights even before I became professional, and he’s one of the fighters who I admire. I am truly proud of myself to be in the ring with him the day after tomorrow.
“It’s a beautiful trophy, I like the design.
“The winner of this tournament will be crowned as the greatest of the division. I am representing Japan as a professional boxer and I will show the greatest performance of my career as an answer to all the exceptions here.
“The appeal of the WBSS is that we can decide who is the best in the division. I would like to be victorious, but I’m not stopping there. In the future, I want to be the greatest of all time!”
2019-11-07T11:45:10.466ZThat tournament tree. 
Advertisement2019-11-07T11:35:30.000ZTakuma Inoue is in the fifth round of his world title attempt, but he's already been dropped by the strong Oubaali. Can he find a way back into the fight? We'll have the result and any key updates before then.
2019-11-07T11:32:21.286ZThe monster. 
2019-11-07T11:28:43.356ZSo what was Inoue's route to the final? Quarter-final: Juan Carlos Payano (TKO, 1st round)Semi-final: Emmanuel Rodriguez (TKO, 2nd round) Not much time wasted then, will he produce the same today? It would be some statement if so. And Donaire's route to the final looked a little bit like this: Quarter-final: Ryan Burnett (RTD, 4th round)Semi-final: Stephon Young (KO, 6th round) Neither man have gone the distance in the tournament so far but it is worth noting that the fight against Burnett was brought to an end after the Brit was forced to retire through a freak back injury which was caused by a punch. Burnett had to be stretchered out of the arena and straight to hospital. Burnett managed one more fight after that but was forced into recent retirement because of his injury.
2019-11-07T11:13:35.970ZTakuma Inoue, the younger brother of Naoya, is fighting on the co-main event today. He takes on Nordine Oubaali for the WBC bantamweight belt. If both Inoue brothers win today, could they go on to fight each other?
Advertisement2019-11-07T11:01:11.956ZThey are of course, both world champions in multiple weight classes.Inoue has won a world title in three different divisions, while Donaire has done so in a stunning four.It's being described as the 'greatest fight ever' in Japan for a reason.
2019-11-07T10:44:16.870ZNonito Donaire, meanwhile, is a seasoned veteran of the game. 45 fights40 wins26 knockouts5 losses Not bad at all.
2019-11-07T10:32:47.353ZNaoya Inoue's record is a fearsome one, he has a stunning 89% knockout rate. 18 fights18 wins16 knockouts And of course, zero defeats.
2019-11-07T10:20:25.060ZWe're still a little while away from the main event, so have a little bit of a read about everything you need to know ahead of today's fight. 
Advertisement2019-11-07T09:56:13.430ZHello and welcome to The Independent's live coverage of Naoya Inoue vs Nonito Donaire! The pair meet in the World Boxing Super Series final, with the Muhammad Ali trophy up for grabs. Who will become the fourth man to lift it? We'll have all the coverage for you today.
Which belts are on the line?
The IBF, WBA (Super) and Ring Magazine titles.
What channel is it on?
If you’re in America or around the world, it will be on DAZN, if you’re in the United Kingdom you can find it on Sky Sports Action.
What time does it start?
The main event ring walks should take place from around 12.15pm UK time, so Brits can enjoy it while having their lunch break and adjust accordingly for your time zones around the world
