
# Apple fixes background app bug with iOS and iPadOS 13.2.2

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:49:41+00:00**

Author: **Samuel Axon**

Original: [Ars Technica](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2019/11/apple-fixes-background-app-bug-with-ios-and-ipados-13-2-2/)

Today, Apple released a minor update for the operating systems running on iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch devices. Labeled iOS 13.2.2 (or iPadOS 13.2.2 for the iPad), the key bullet point in this update is a fix for a widely reported (and apparently RAM-management-related) bug in iOS 13 that saw apps quitting and losing their state while running in the background.
All the other changes listed for this update are bug fixes as well. Issues addressed include multiple problems with cellular service and reception, corrupted emails when using S/MIME encryption, a charging problem when using YubiKey accessories, and a bug involving Kerberos authentication in Safari.
Here are Apple's release notes for iOS 13.2.2. The iPadOS release notes are the same, except they omit the bullet point about fixing a cellular data bug:

        iOS 13.2.2 includes bug fixes and improvements for your iPhone. This update:
      
This marks the seventh iOS software update since the release of iOS 13 less than 50 days ago. As we've noted before, this is an unprecedented release cadence from Apple, which clearly marks some internal changes and reflects an effort to get ahead of bugs that shipped with an ambitious—and it appears from the outside, rushed—iOS 13 and iPadOS release.
iOS and iPadOS 13.2.2 are available today for all devices that are supported by iOS 13. You can find the option to update in the Settings app on your device.
