
# Beyoncé films Brown Skin Girl video in London and begs locals to 'tell their stories'

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:26:42+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/beyonc-filming-new-video-south-20787061)

US musical icon Beyoncé is filming for her new video in south London.
Ahead of the release of her track Brown Skin Girl, the superstar's out and about in a number of Catford and Thamesmead estates.
The casting team for the video wants "black and brown people of different cultures, nationalities, ethnicities, genders and ages" for the hitmaker's latest offering.
Members of Beyoncé's huge team were spotted by HM Prison Thameside yesterday.
A source told the MailOnline that the 38-year-old is particularly passionate about getting the video to match the true message and meaning of the record.
"Beyoncé wants this video to truly represent the essence of the song," the source said.
"She may refer to Naomi Campbell and Lupita Nyong'o in the track but she was keen to have normal people step forward and tell their stories.
"Her casting team called for all different family structures to apply including 'blended, single parent, queer and adopted.'
"Trained actors and dancers were also wanted but the main focus is on showcasing a variety of body shapes and ages, from as young as six months to the elderly.
"Shooting started today in London but as yet Beyoncé is only going to star in the side of the film recorded in America."
It's especially important for the singer to get this one right as it marks a collaboration not just with Saint Jhn and Wizkid, but her daughter Blue Ivy.
The seven-year-old will be flexing her vocal chords on the song, with the mother-daughter team effort directed by Peckham's own Jenn Nkiru.
She shares Blue Ivy with rapping megastar Jay-Z , who she's been married to for over a decade.
Bey's been kept busy over the past year with her role in Disney's remake of The Lion King.
She took on the iconic role of Nala, and even released an album - Lion King: The Gift - alongside her voice acting.
