
# Christopher Jullien offers Lazio vs Celtic fan assurances as he looks forward to 'beautiful spectacle'

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:34:20+00:00**

Author: **Gabriel McKay**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/christopher-jullien-offers-lazio-vs-20817813)

Celtic defender Christopher Jullien doesn't think there will be trouble ahead of Thursday night's game with Lazio, insisting he's looking forward to "a beautiful spectacle".
Neil Lennon's side can knock the Italians out of the Europa League with a win, and tensions are high after the first game in Glasgow.
Members of the Irriducibili ultras group marched through Glasgow giving fascist salutes and singing 'Avanti Ragazzi di Buda', an anti-communist song popular with the Italian far-right.
Celtic supporters unveiled banners reading "f*** off Lazio " and a banner depicting a hanging Benito Mussolini with the words "follow your leader".
There have been fears of reprisals in Rome this week, but Jullien isn't expecting any trouble.
He told Calciomercato.it : "All of us only want to talk about football and about another great match.
"That's what we at Celtic want and what everyone should want. We know that our fans follow the team in a positive manner and have a brilliant reputation when they travel in Europe.
"They've been to Italy many times, visiting cities like Milan, Turin and Udine and they enjoyed some great games.
"We want the same here, to support us on the pitch and to enjoy Rome, one of the most beautiful cities in the world.
"We'll make the game a festival of sport, with two great teams ready to give life to a beautiful spectacle."
Jullien scored the winner against Lazio in the first game and was asked for his opinion on Simone Inzaghi's side.
"Obviously we respect them a lot. They scored a great goal in the first game and we know that they're a rich club with talented players.
"It'll be another hard game.
"Lazio create a lot of danger in search of the win, they're absolutely in contention to qualify and will want to put in a good performance for their fans.
"We'll need to be ready, Lazio have already beaten Cluj easily at home and they've shown themselves to be a really difficult opponent.
"We know we're facing a fierce rival with great qualities but we're also in good form right now so it'll be a great match.
"Lazio have a great defence, with players like Bastos who is really fast, good physically and very talented.
"They have quality and experience all over the pitch. (Sergej) Milinkovic-Savic is another brilliant element and (Ciro) Immobile is obviously a top player.
"It'd be wrong to focus on names though, we're talking about a team that is very strong collectively."
