
# LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: Nats ‘drought’ not so long

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **THE WASHINGTON TIMES**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/6/letters-to-the-editor-nats-drought-not-so-long/)


        ANALYSIS/OPINION:
      
While the Washington Nationals deserve tremendous credit for their amazing run to this year’s World Series championship, this was not “the city’s first [title] since 1924 — ending a 95-year drought” (“View from the top: Nationals deliver jubilant city a dream come true,” Web, Oct. 31).
From 1972 to 2004, when Washington was technically without a baseball team, the Baltimore Orioles were Washington’s team. While the Orioles played in Maryland, so did the Bullets and Capitals then, so do the Redskins now. In fact, those Orioles teams played their home games closer to Washington than the San Francisco 49ers, whose home stadium is in Santa Clara, play to San Francisco today.
Those of us who grew up in Washington in the late 1970s and 1980s will never forget pouring out our hearts for Jim Palmer, Eddie Murray, Cal Ripken Jr., Steve Stone, Rick Dempsey, Mike Boddicker, Tippy Martinez and Earl Weaver. We endured the heartache of losing the 1979 World Series in seven games and falling just short in the American League East pennant races in 1980 and 1982. A year later, we were rewarded for our loyalty with the joy of celebrating the 1983 World Series title — Washington’s real last Major League Baseball championship until this year.

        STEPHEN A. SILVER
      

          San Francisco
        

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
