
# The Latest: Kentucky gov receives ringing Trump endorsement

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/4/the-latest-kentucky-gov-receives-ringing-trump-end/)

LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP) - The Latest on President Donald Trump’s rally on the eve of the Kentucky governor’s race (all times local):
7:40 p.m.
Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin has received a ringing endorsement from President Donald Trump at an election eve appearance together, hours before voters choose between Bevin and Democrat Andy Beshear.
At the campaign rally Monday evening in Lexington, Trump called Bevin a “terrific” governor and said Kentucky is thriving like never before. He says Kentucky voters can send a signal to the rest of the country by re-electing Bevin on Tuesday.
Bevin’s popularity had slumped after he tried to overhaul the state’s public pension systems, which drew protests from teachers and others.
And while Bevin basked in the glow of Trump’s endorsement Monday, Beshear spent the day campaigning in western Kentucky focusing on state issues. Beshear is Kentucky’s attorney general.
11:30 a.m.
Republican Gov. Matt Bevin is getting the campaign finale he wants - an election-eve appearance with President Donald Trump just hours before Kentucky voters choose between him and Democrat Andy Beshear.
The Monday evening rally at Rupp Arena in Lexington reinforces one of Bevin’s main campaign themes - his alliance with Trump, whose popularity eclipses the governor’s in the bluegrass state.
Trump tweeted support for Bevin Monday morning, saying he “has worked really hard & done a GREAT job.”
Beshear, the state’s attorney general, is spending the day campaigning in western Kentucky. The son of Kentucky’s last Democratic governor is stressing issues like pay raises for teachers and access to health care.
Bevin promotes his conservative credentials on abortion and gun rights and has tried to shift attention to national issues by condemning efforts to impeach Trump.
4:30 a.m.
Republican Gov. Matt Bevin is getting the campaign finale he wants - an election-eve appearance with President Donald Trump just hours before Kentucky voters choose between him and Democrat Andy Beshear.
The Monday evening rally at Rupp Arena in Lexington reinforces one of Bevin’s main campaign themes - his alliance with Trump, whose popularity eclipses the governor’s in the bluegrass state.
Beshear, the state’s attorney general, is spending the day campaigning in western Kentucky. The son of Kentucky’s last Democratic governor is stressing issues like pay raises for teachers and access to health care.
Bevin touts his conservative credentials on abortion and gun rights. He’s tried shifting voters’ attention to national issues by condemning the impeachment inquiry of Trump.
Vice President Mike Pence campaigned with Bevin last Friday in southeastern Kentucky.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
