
# Will Robert Pattinson's Batman Ever Be In A Movie With Aquaman? Here's Jason Momoa's Take

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:46:50+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483716/will-robert-pattinsons-batman-ever-be-in-a-movie-with-aquaman-heres-jason-momoas-take)

Written By
Jason Momoa's Aquaman got plenty of face-time with Ben Affleck's Batman in Justice League, but now that Affleck is out and Robert Pattinson is in, will they cross paths in a movie too?
Matt Reeves' The Batman is part of the DC Comics universe but maybe not eager for DCEU connections. Warner Bros. moved away from its focus on a "shared universe" after the relative disappointment of Justice League to focus more on individual movies. Joker is an example of that, and it has no direct ties to the DCEU.
Jason Momoa is now everywhere promoting his new TV show See, and fielding questions on Aquaman -- and The Snyder Cut of Justice League -- along the way. ET asked him for his reaction to Robert Pattinson being cast as Batman, and he was all praise:
The whole thing of The Batman includes Zoe Kravitz as Catwoman. Jason Momoa is married to Kravitz's mother, Lisa Bonet, so he's her stepfather. Momoa recently talked about how he reacted to Kravitz's casting, warning her that her life would change just as his did after Aquaman.
Here's what Jason Momoa had to say about the idea of Robert Pattinson's Batman, Zoe Kravitz's Catwoman, and Momoa's own Aquaman ever being in a movie together:
It does seem like The Batman is going to be its own thing, but it would also be awesome for DC to reconnect its iconic characters -- as long as they could find a natural way to do it. Not something forced.
A couple of years ago, Matt Reeves surprised DC fans with this statement about his movie:
Matt Reeves later clarified what he meant by that:
It sounds like The Batman might be too packed with other characters for any Justice League characters to drop by -- besides, Arthur Curry might wonder why Bruce Wayne suddenly looks so different. (They could cover that with a one-off joke, though.)
Robert Pattinson is now in training for The Batman, doing some floor rolls, if nothing else. In addition to Zoe Kravitz as Catwoman, the movie has also cast Jeffrey Wright as James Gordon, and Paul Dano as The Riddler.
The Batman is currently scheduled to open in June 2021, just two months before DC's The Suicide Squad, which is bringing back several stars and characters from Suicide Squad while adding many more. Will Robert Pattinson's Batman have any crossover with THAT movie? Writer/director James Gunn addressed that idea. Meanwhile, Jason Momoa's Aquaman sequel has a 2022 release date, and you never know what The Powers That Be might want to do by then.
Maybe it's too soon to know what you want from Robert Pattinson's Batman, but do you hope he ever connects in a movie with Jason Momoa's Aquaman or should their worlds not collide?
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
