
# CRYPTOTAG Zeus Starter Kit Review: Is It Worth The Hype?

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:00:36+00:00**

Author: **Ollie Leech**

Original: [Bitcoinist.com](https://bitcoinist.com/cryptotag-zeus-starter-kit-review-is-it-worth-the-hype/)


        CRYPTOTAG, a company that specializes in high-end crypto backup solutions, has just launched its new compact Zeus Starter Kit product for serious crypto hodlers. Here at Bitcoinist, we were lucky enough to get our hands on one, and it does not disappoint.
      
As with all CRYPTOTAG products, the first thing you notice when you pick up the Zeus Starter Kit is the weight. Even for such a compact design, the quality certainly feels as solid and heavy-duty as the other much larger products in the range. The kit itself is incredibly streamline and fits easily in the palm of your hand.
According to the CRYPTOTAG website, the starter kit boasts some substantial tolerances thanks to the space-grade titanium material it’s made from. Not only is it corrosion and pressure resistant, but it can also handle heats of 1,670 degrees centigrade/ 3050 Fahrenheit, and even stop bullets! So keep it close to your heart and it might not just be your crypto that it saves.
The input method of this product is refreshingly simple and does not require a ton of components to get the job done, unlike some competitor products. The only problem however, is that once you’ve punched dots into the plates it cannot be undone. So just make sure you’re 100% certain before going ahead with the automatic centre punch. But hey, it’s crypto and we’re all used to checking our send and receive address a million times before making transactions, so it shouldn’t be a problem.
Inside the CRYPTOTAG Zeus Starter Kit box, you’ll find:
(1) A setup guide complete with a BIP39 code word list for working out your recovery phrases (see last image)(2) Two conversion sheets to write down your decoded seed phrases on(3) Two premium titanium plates joined by two metal clips at either end(4) A uniquely designed automatic centre punch(5) Two ear plugs(6) And a box of matches to burn your conversion sheets once you’ve committed your recovery phrases to the titanium plates
The attention to detail with the ear plugs and matches, are very nice touches indeed, and shows that CRYPTOTAG really has considered all angles when designing its products.
There’s even a tutorial guide on how to use the centre punch properly!
When you take off the two clips at either end of the CRYPTOTAG Zeus Starter Kit and pull the plates apart, it reveals 24 individual BIP39 code boxes inscribed into the metal. Each of these boxes contains the numbers 0-9.
Using the code list in the back of the setup guide, you simply convert each word into a number sequence and input them on the plates, using the dot punch, in the order that your recovery phrase is shown when setting up your crypto wallet.
Below is the examples that are given in the setup guide on how to convert recovery phrases into BIP39 code form. Just to give you a better idea of how it’s done.
Overall, the Zeus Starter Kit certainly looks and feels like the perfect crypto backup solution for consumers looking for piece of mind when it comes to safely storing their wallet recovery phrases. The minimalist design of this new premium kit makes it a fantastic addition to the already impressive CRYPTOTAG range, and cements our opinion that CRYPTOTAG products are 100% worth the hype.

        What do you think of CRYPTOTAG’s latest Zeus Starter Kit? Add your thoughts below!
      

        Full Disclosure: The review unit was provided by CRYPTOTAG for the purpose of review.
      
The Rundown
