
# Sale won't see World Cup winner de Jager in action in Manchester until 2020

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:36:38+00:00**

Author: **Chris Jones**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/sale-wont-see-world-cup-winner-de-jager-in-action-in-manchester-until-2020)

Lood de Jager, the World Cup-winning Springbok lock, is to facing shoulder surgery that will delay his debut for Sale Sharks for up to four months.
De Jager suffered the injury early in the first half of South Africa’s 32-12 win over England in last Saturday’s final in Yokohama.
He will have a scan on Wednesday to confirm the extent of the damage and the surgery that is required to put him on the road to recovery and a new rugby career in the English Premiership.
Sale boss Steve Diamond has assembled a strong South African contingent in his squad headed by World Cup-winning scrum-half Faf de Klerk, and de Jager, one of the Springboks starting locks, is certain to make a major impact in the English game once fit.
Diamond expects de Klerk, plus the England cup final pair Tom Curry and Mark Wilson, to be on duty for the club in their home Heineken Cup pool match versus La Rochelle on November 24.

        (Continue reading below…)
      

        Click here to see the video
      
He told RugbyPass: “Lood is having a scan Wednesday and we are probably looking at an operation and three to four months out, so we will get him in the spring by the look of things.
“There is an old saying that you don’t miss what you have never had and we know we have a really good player on our hands. It will be great to have him the squad after his recovery.
“I won’t be picking Faf, Tom and Mark until our second European game at home to La Rochelle, so they are going to have two weeks off,” added Diamond.
