
# Yesterday movie: Behind the scenes of Kate McKinnon's 'devilish' manager role

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/film/yesterday-movie-behind-scenes-kate-20766225)

The Beatles musical film Yesterday has revealed a look behind the role of comedic star Kate McKinnon in the film.
The Saturday Night Live star plays the conniving manager Debra Hammer in the Danny Boyle film which tells the story of struggling musician Jack Malik (Himesh Patel), who awakens one day to find that the whole world - including his best friend Ellie (Lily James) - have never heard of the Beatles.
Capitalising on their iconic songs, this is where Jack soon crosses paths with the eccentric Hammer.
This exclusive featurette for Mirror Online sees screenwriter Richard Curtis reveal what energy McKinnon brought to the set of the popular film, along with some words from McKinnon herself on her devilish role.
The home release also includes an Alternate Opening scene and an Alternate Ending.
 
There is also a gag reel and a whole host of deleted scenes, including Himesh Patel delivering a performance of Something.
Also, look out for live sessions at Abbey Road Studios, with Patel performing the songs Yesterday, I Want To Hold Your Hand, and Let It Be.
Also, Ed Sheeran fans should keep an eye out for two featurettes featuring the singer-songwriter, with one seeing the star talk about his first movie role in the film and another being A Conversation with Richard & Ed, which sees him speak with long-time friend Richard Curtis.
We'll be humming Beatles tracks for a good while yet, then!

        Yesterday is released on 4K Ultra HD, Blu-ray, and DVD on November 4, 2019.
      

        
          What did you think of Yesterday? Let us know in the comments below.
        
      
