
# Reports | New 'Power Player' concept to introduce substitution in IPL

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:21:54+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/reports-new-power-player-concept-to-introduce-substitution-in-ipl?utm_medium=rss)


        A new concept of Power Player is supposed to be introduced in the Indian Premier League as a further step by the BCCI to transform the T20 format. The next edition of the marquee T20 league will allow a substitute a player at the fall of a wicket or at the end of an over at any point in the game.
      
According to the IANS, a senior BCCI official has revealed a new concept in the upcoming edition of IPL, which has already been approved. The news will be made official after being further discussed in the IPL Governing Council meeting, which is to be held at the BCCI headquarters in Mumbai on Tuesday.
"We are looking at a scenario where a team will not name the Playing XI. They will announce the 15 and a player can be substituted at either the fall of a wicket or at the end of the over at any point in the game. While we are looking to introduce it in the IPL, trying the concept first in the upcoming Mushtaq Ali Trophy could be the ideal way forward," the official revealed to the news agency.
This concept was ideated eyeing to revolutionize the game and introduce an out-of-the-box strategy by the teams, which would make T20 cricket more exciting for the fans. 
"Imagine you need 20 runs off the last six balls and you have Andre Russell sitting in the dug-out as he wasn't a hundred percent and wasn't part of the original XI. But now, he can just walk in and go slam-bang and win you the game.
"Similarly, say you need to defend six runs off the last over and you have someone like a Jasprit Bumrah sitting in the dug-out. So, what does the captain do? Brings in Bumrah at the end of the 19th over and there you go. The concept has the potential to change the game," the official added.
