
# ‘Panipat’ vs ‘Pati Patni Aur Woh’: Arjun Kapoor to battle it out with Kartik Aaryan at the box office

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:20:17+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/panipat-vs-pati-patni-aur-woh-arjun-kapoor-to-battle-it-out-with-kartik-aaryan-at-the-box-office/articleshow/71897840.cms)

Come December 6th, fans will be left spoilt for choice as Kartik Aaryan’s romantic comedy ‘Pati Patni Aur Woh’ is all set to clash with Arjun Kapoor’s periodic drama ‘Panipat’.
At a time when fans are bracing themselves for some of the biggest clashes in box office history set to take place in 2020, it now looks like 2019 will be ending with a bang.
The makers of the Kartik Aaryan, Bhumi Pednekar and Ananya Panday, unveiled the trailer of their film today that was well received by fans for its hilarious one-liners, interesting plot twist and plenty of quips. Not only has the trailer managed to woo fans over, but Kartik has even made it to top trends on social media handles.

        Read Also:
        'Pati Patni Aur Woh' trailer: Kartik Aaryan's situational comedy of trying to impress Ananya Panday and Bhumi Pednekar at the same time is hilarious
      
Meanwhile, team ‘Panipat’ is getting ready to unveil the trailer of their historical drama on Tuesday. The team released some impressive posters of the lead stars, Arjun Kapoor, Sanjay Dutt and Kriti Sanon.

        Read Also:
        ‘Panipat’: Arjun Kapoor looks fierce and ready for battle as the brave warrior Sadashiv Rao Bhau
      
With a lot riding on the two films, it remains to be seen if either of the two will bow out of a clash, or if they will decide to share the box office business.
This brings us to the question, which film are you more interested to watch? The out-and-out romantic comedy or watch this historical tale of the epic Battle of Panipat?
