
# ‘A Colossal Discovery’: Here Are The Full Regigigas Special Research Tasks In ‘Pokémon GO’

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dave Thier**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidthier/2019/11/02/a-colossal-discovery-here-are-the-full-regigigas-special-research-tasks-in-pokmon-go/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

The ticketed “A Colossal Discovery” special research is now live in Pokémon GO. Not for North America, of course, but this thing goes live at 11:00 AM local time, and that means there’s been plenty of time for players across the world to get a look at it before the Eastern seaboard other United States gets a chance to see what’s what. Redditors posted the complete quest steps for the special research task hours ago, so we’ve now got an idea of what we’re working with. This comes to us courtesy of ttmoo123, posted on Silph Road:

        Step 1:
      

        Step 2:
      

        Step 3:
      

        Step 4:
      
So, not much here, really. The hardest part is going to be completing three Tier 5 Raids, so you’re going to want to make sure you’re in a place with enough other people to get that taken care of, or that you’re in a group big enough to handle the things on your own. Other than that the only solid reward here is the exclusive pose and Tyranitar, but I have a feeling most people buying this ticket are already lousy with Tyranitar.
Other than that, it sounds like this is mostly just a Raid Day: we’re seeing nearly all gyms populated by Tier 5 raids featuring Titan Pokemon, all of which have shiny capability. Which is fine, aside from the fact that those are usually free. This was a big experiment for Niantic to see if it could deliver value for an event that costs $8 to participate in, and so far I’m not getting the feeling that the community thinks the developer has delivered on this promise. You do get Regigigas, but it seems like a bit of a light event, especially considering we’re not getting free research days anymore.
