
# AMD Finally Reveals Threadripper 3970X, 3960X Specifications And Pricing: Up To 60 Percent Faster Too

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Antony Leather**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/antonyleather/2019/11/07/amd-finally-reveals-threadripper-3970x-3960x-specifications-and-pricing-up-to-60-percent-faster-too/)

AMD has finally revealed the full details of its highly-anticipated 3rd Gen Threadripper processors that are due to launch later this month. The Threadripper 3970X will have 32-cores and 3960X will have 24 cores and retail for $1,999 and $1,399 respectively.
Both use AMD's 7nm Zen 2 architecture, but the specifications differ wildly for most rumors and leaks posted online so far. For starters the pricing is now confirmed as $1,399 for the 24-core 3960X, which is considerably more than Intel is pitching its 18-core Core i9-10980XE at, which has a 1000 unit price of $979 and will likely tip the scales at around $1,000.
So it seems you're getting more performance, but Intel's massive price cuts with its Cascade Lake-X processors, all due out this month, now mean that AMD now sits at the top of the high-end desktop pricing stack.The Threadripper 3970X has double the core count of the Core i9-10980XE, but this time, will cost double at $1,999 - an increase of $200 compared to the Threadripper 2990WX.
Next are the frequencies, which again differ to recent leaks quite significantly. Both CPUs will have a maximum boost frequency of 4.5GHz, which is above average for a Zen 2 processor (the Ryzen 9 3950X can reach 4.7GHz). The Cache is massively different to rumors, though, which had figures in the 200MB range. However, 144MB is still a huge amount and double that of the Ryzen 9 3950X.

        TRX40 chipset and compatibility
      
AMD has confimed that its 3rd Gen Threadripper CPUs will not be compatible with X399 motherboards (and older Threadripper CPUs won't work in the new TRX40 motherboards either). This was suggested to me back in May with various rumors since but sadly it is now confirmed. However, the socket - now called TRX4 - remains the same so coolers, at least, will be compatible.
AMD has increased the PCI-E lanes between the CPU and chipset from 4 to 8 and the total number of usable PCI-E lanes now sits at a huge 72. Memory overclocking and speed support is also improved, but AMD declined to say by how much - remember that Zen 2 Ryzen supports much faster memory than previous generations.
The new Threadripper CPUs are primarily aimed at high-end content creation and workstation tasks and AMD is claiming up to 60% performance boosts over the previous generation. However, there will still be an interest from a gaming point of view, which AMD hasn't touched on yet in its performance previews. AMD also confirmed that 2nd Gen Threadripper processors will continue to be available. I'll be reviewing the new CPUs as well as Intel's Core i9-10980XE and AMD's Ryzen 9 3950X later this month so follow me here on Forbes or Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, Instagram or Reddit for more PC hardware news and reviews.
