
# Keanu Reeves wants to 'openly share his life' with girlfriend Alexandra Grant

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:17:45+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/keanu-reeves-wants-openly-share-20821007)

Keanu Reeves is looking to be more public with his relationship with Alexandra Grant after the couple revealed they are together.
The 55-year-old Hollywood actor caused a sensation after he attended the LACMA Art + Film Gala over the weekend, hand-in-hand with 46-year-old artist Alexandra.
Keanu is reportedly ready to 'openly share his life' with his new beau, after going public with his first girlfriend for many years.
A source has told People that "Keanu wants to openly share his life with her,” and that "he is extremely happy and grateful to have Alex in his life."
An insider has said that Keanu and Alexandra have known each other for years and their friendship turned into a romantic relationship.
The source said they "started dating earlier this year, but have wanted to keep it quiet."
The pair have known each other for a number of years, meeting in 2011.
They collaborated on Keanu's book Ode To Happiness, with Alexandra providing the illustrations for the project.
It was a first for the both of them, with it being Keanu's debut book and Alexandra's first body of art work.
They then worked together on the Matrix star's 2016 book, Shadows before repeating the collaboration again a year later.
Before confirming their relationship in the past couple of days, the pair were snapped together as the enjoyed a luxurious dinner in Santa Monica, California.
They arrived together in his Porsche and after a relaxing three-hour lunch, exited through the back door, as they looked to keep their coupling under wraps at the time.
Last month, the pair were photographed enjoying dinner together at Giorgio Baldi, a luxurious Italian hotspot, in Santa Monica, California.
The two arrived together in Reeve’s Porsche and spent three hours inside the restaurant talking and sharing a meal. They left together through a back exit after enjoying their dinner.
Keanu has not publicly dated for a while and has experienced extreme heartache in the past with a woman he loved.
After meeting actress Jennifer Syme at a party in 2000, he fell in love with her and she fell pregnant with their baby daughter.
Unfortunately, their dreams were shattered when the baby died in Jennifer's womb and was stillborn on Christmas Eve, just a month before her due date.
The grief tore them apart and they split soon afterwards before looking patch up their relationship in 2001.
Unfortunately, it was never to be as Jennifer was killed in a car accident, en route to a party at Marilyn Manson's house, when she was just 28.
A grief-stricken Keanu carried her coffin as she was laid to rest beside their daughter.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
