
# Friends star Jennifer Aniston confesses she took neon sign from Central Perk

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:40:21+00:00**

Author: **Brogan-Leigh Hurst**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/jennifer-aniston-confesses-sweet-answer-20792729)

Jennifer Aniston has confessed she stole a neon light from Central Perk on her last day of filming the hit TV show Friends.
The actress played Rachel Green for 10 years on the iconic sitcom and shared some behind the scenes gossip as she appeared on the Graham Norton Show last night.
She was joined by Reese Witherspoon to promote their new series The Morning Show, alongside British icons Sir Ian McKellen and Dame Julie Andrews.
Graham asked: "Jennifer you took a bit of Friends when you left at the end, didn't you?"
And Jennifer gushed back: "I took all five of them," as the audience burst out with "ahhh".
  
While it's been 25 years since Friends first hit our screens, Jennifer has maintained a close friendship with her co-stars Courteney Cox, Matt LeBlanc, Matthew Perry, Lisa Kudrow and David Schwimmer.
Jen did admit to taking the light-up neon coffee sign from Central Perk, which now sits in her office.
It comes after the 50-year-old signed up to Instagram and delighted fans with an epic Friends reunion cast snap.
 
The blonde star selected a selfie for her social media debut that showed her smiling alongside her Friends co-stars - the first ever full reunion snap of the six famous actors.
She playfully captioned the offering: "And now we’re  Instagram  FRIENDS too. HI INSTAGRAM."
 
Jennifer decided to write in her bio: "My friends call me Jen."
So far, the age-defying beauty is following 180 people and has racked up a massive 18.1m followers.
Fans of the former wife of Brad Pitt took to the comments to share their excitement of her finally joining the picture sharing app.
One penned: "I love this so much" alongside a crying face.
Another added: "This is a moment!."
Some gushed: "our besties all together!!!!!" and "Oh yeah mama!! Woooohooooo."

        
          Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
        
      
