
# UK weather: Britain battered by 100mph gale force winds as trees fall crushing cars

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:54:09+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, Gayle McDonald, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/uk-weather-britain-battered-100mph-20794060)

Winds topping 100mph are battering the south and south west of England as fearsome gales threaten to cancel firework displays.
Fierce storm are hounding the lower parts of the country, prompting the Met Office to issue a severe weather warning for Saturday.
Dozens of trees have been felled in Cornwall and Devon by winds an independent weather station recorded as hitting 113mph, Cornwall Live reported.
Kernow Weather Team claimed Illogan in Cornwall was buffeted by the ferocious gusts this morning.
 
While the Met Office did not make recordings that went quite that high, the organisation's weather stations had recorded 101mph winds at the Old Battery on the Isle of Wight.
Plymouth in Devon was also rocked by 83mph winds.
Matt Box, a Met Office meteorologist, said: "They (the strong winds) are being caused by low pressure that has moved in from the west.
"The strongest winds are found wrapped around the south western flank.
 
"They're affecting the south west, parts of west Wales and the south coast, and will continue into the afternoon."
As well as uprooting trees in the south west, the tumultuous weather has slowed down public transport.
Ferries running between Dover and Calais have been delayed as have Thames Link and Great Western Railway train services.
On the same day England lost the World Cup in heart-wrenching fashion, spectacle fans could suffer another blow.
Firework displays across the south and south west of the country may be called off if the winds continue.
"Largely by the time we get to this evening the strongest winds should have receded," Mr Box continued.
"If you're out and about try and enjoy some fireworks, but check with local organisers that they're still on."
 
When asked whether how wind could affect fireworks, Mr Box said such matters did not fall in his professional remit, before recalling an episode from his youth.
"Personally I remember one New Years when my parents lit a firework in the garden, at our family home in Cornwall," he said.
"The firework went horizontal. They can be affected by strong winds."
Those close to the coast are most likely to suffer at the hands of the stormy weather.
Nick Hughes, who lives on a boat off Plymouth, said he recorded wind speeds of 64knots at 6.30am this morning, which according to the Beaufort Scale is hurricane-force.
"I woke up at 5.30am this morning because my boat was nudging the pontoon," Nick, who has lived on boats for 11 years, said.
"When I checked the wind speed it was 64.4knots. It was actually slightly higher at one point.
"I've never known it to be this bad."
Yellow weather warnings have been issued for the south of England and the north east of Scotland today, with the warning remaining in place in Scotland for tomorrow.
The Met Office website explains that a yellow warnings means:
