
# ‘It's Our Wish To Win Something This Season!’

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/telkom-knockout/maritzburg-united-have-a-big-game-coming-up-tonight/666535)

A remarkable turnaround in fortunes in KwaZulu-Natal has seen Maritzburg United climb up the table and progress in the Telkom Knockout, but can they take things further?

        Read: Blom Opens Up On His Chiefs Debut
      
The Team of Choice have won four games in a row after claiming three wins in the Absa Premiership and their TKO penalty shootout victory over Bidvest Wits, and are taking aim at winning five on the bounce tonight when they take on Highlands Park.
Maritzburg haven’t won five consecutive matches in the top-flight for more than a decade – the last time was March 2009 – and they haven’t reached the semifinals of the TKO for almost the same amount of time (November 2011).
Mxolisi Kunene, who has been crucial for Eric Tinkler’s side of late, says that they’re eager to get a trophy under their belt this season, with Owen da Gama’s side the next hurdle standing in their way of that.
The attacker told Maritzburg’s official website, “It’s all about hard work and determination… So far we have been doing very well as a team, collecting points. So towards the cup match, we are motivated and are taking it seriously as it's our wish to win something this season.
“I think it’s going to be a tough one but all I can say it’s an advantage to us as we are playing at home in front of our supporters at Harry Gwala… That is going to boost us a lot, they play a big role for us as they always come in numbers to support and give our morale a boost," Kunene stated. "So they are very important to us."

        Read: A Message From Kaizer Motaung…
      
The 28-year-old also added that there was one aspect in particular they’ve been working on, saying, “We have been working hard in our defence as we saw that last season, we conceded lot of goals but this season we are trying our best to lock up at the back. The good thing about it is that we have started winning matches.”
Maritzburg host The Lions of the North at 20h00 tonight at Harry Gwala Stadium.
