
# China Reverses Decision to Crack Down on Bitcoin Mining Industry

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:23:56+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/science/201911061077240306-china-reverses-decision-to-crack-down-on-bitcoin-mining-industry/)


        China will no longer restrict bitcoin mining in the country, despite the fact that the country’s National Development and Reform Commission announced more than six months ago that it was planning to crack down on the popular cryptocurrency industry.
      
China’s decision not to phase out the bitcoin mining industry was revealed in a recent edition of China’s Industrial Adjustment Guidance Catalog. In a comment on Twitter, Samson Mow, a spokesperson for Bitcoin startup Blockstream, said, “China’s National Development and Reform Commission has removed #cryptocurrency mining from the list of industries they want to eliminate. Bullish for #Bitcoin,” referencing the Guidance Catalog, CoinDesk reported. 
Chinese officials have also claimed that cryptocurrency mining farms, which consist of hundreds of computer processors solving billions of mathematical problems per second to 'mine' or produce bitcoins or other digital currencies, are too energy intensive. China currently has the greatest number of mining farms in the world. 
In 2017, China also banned initial coin offerings (ICOs), which are equivalent to initial public offerings by corporations, according to Investopedia. ICOs are an “unregulated method of fundraising to support a new project via cryptocurrency,” CoinTelegraph explains.
Reports also surfaced in August that Chinese authorities may be close to releasing their own cryptocurrency, with a senior official at the People’s Bank of China stating that the country’s own digital coin is “close to being out,” multiple sources reported at the time.
