
# Shruti Haasan's heartwarming birthday wish for papa Kamal Haasan as he completes 60 years in Cinema

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:47:37+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/heres-shruti-haasans-heartwarming-wish-for-papa-kamal-haasans-special-birthday-as-he-completes-60-years-in-cinema/articleshow/71950216.cms)

Today is a special day for Haasans. Today, as Kamal Haasan, one of the multi-facet actors of our Indian cinema celebrates his 64th birthday, social media is abuzz with heartwarming wishes for the superstar. His fans and well-wishers are all in praise for the actor today and are sharing beautiful memories of him.
While fans are busy wishing the star, his daughter Shruti Haasan extended a special wish for her dad. Shruti in her social media post lovingly addressed her father as bapuji and also expressed how grateful they feel to be a part of his life. Shruti wrote, "Happy birthday Bapuji @ikamalhaasan ❤️ such a special birthday marking 60 years of your work in cinema , we get to go back to paramakudi we get to celebrate atthis life as well and most importantly we get to be a part of your very special life :) love you lots pappa."
Shruti along with this special note, shared a picture of Kamal Haasan posing with Shruti and Akshara Haasan. The trio is looking extremely regal in their traditional attires.
Kamal Haasan have impressed the masses with noteworthy performances and have been awarded many prestigious awards. Moreover, he was awarded the Kalaimamani award in 1979, the Padma Shri in 1990, the Padma Bhushan in 2014 and the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres (Chevalier) in 2016. Haasan was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award at 15th Mumbai International Film Festival in 2013.
