
# Craig Revel Horwood's sly dig at Neil Jones as Alex Scott partners with Kevin Clifton on Strictly

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:16:46+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/craig-revel-horwoods-sly-dig-17191632)

Craig Revel Horwood moved to issue a sly jibe at Neil Jones on tonight's Strictly Come Dancing.
Alex Scott, the former Arsenal star who is paired up with Neil for the show, has been forced to perform with Kevin Clifton instead.
Kevin stepped into the breach to replace Neil, who suffered an injury in training, for the second week running.
Revel Horwood told her "this accidental partnership is working wonders", giving her a seven, while Mabuse praised her "huge improvement in everything", giving her an eight alongside Ballas and Tonioli.
Will Bayley is in the audience to watch the taping of Strictly Come Dancing after pulling out of the show due to injury.
Host Tess Daly said: "As you may have heard, Will can no longer take part in the competition due to a knee injury."
She added: "We love you will."
Co-host Claudia Winkleman also referred to the injury suffered by professional dancer Neil Jones, who is partnered with Alex Scott, confirming Kevin Clifton will dance in his place.
She said: "Neil, we look forward to seeing you back on the dancefloor very soon."
 
During their performance, Alex Scott and Kevin Clifton said they were dancing for Scott's partner Jones as he recovers from injury.
Rehearsal footage showed Jones on crutches, breaking the news to his partner that he has a grade one strain.
Recalling the accident during rehearsal last week, he said: "I think we had only done a couple of steps and I couldn't move it anymore."
 
Video from Thursday saw him telling Scott and Clifton: "I've just been to physio and I'm still not 100% for Saturday, so Kev it's over to you."
Clifton said: "We are doing this for Neil, he's been there every step of the way and we just want to do him proud."
