
# Committee confronts cost of council's approval of 14 new suburban communities

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:58:31+00:00**

Author: **Meghan Potkins, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/committee-confronts-cost-of-councils-approval-of-14-new-suburban-communities)

City council members are confronting the budgetary fallout of approving 14 new suburban communities last year.
The city is projecting a temporary $56.9-million budget shortfall over the next three years as a result of slower than expected development in new suburban communities approved last year and 27 other still-developing neighbourhoods, according to data presented at council’s finance committee Tuesday.
The news isn’t sitting well with some inner-city councillors who argue that established neighbourhoods will be facing budget cuts and service reductions this fall — including the likely closure of two inner-city pools — while investment continues on the fringes of the city.
“We’re going to see service cuts to fully built-out neighbourhoods across the city while we’re building new infrastructure in places that people (don’t live),” said Coun. Evan Woolley Tuesday. “This is going to be a big problem in budget.”
The city has a policy that growth must “pay for itself”, particularly when it comes to capital costs, but Tuesday’s meeting revealed that Calgary is falling short of its targets. City staff say the budget shortfalls are the result of reduced revenues from off-site levies charged to developers to fund infrastructure like water and wastewater treatment facilities, roads and fire halls.
Some infrastructure projects could be delayed to help offset the shortfall, city staff said, but other infrastructure, particularly when it comes to water utilities, will have to proceed. New communities must have sewer and water treatment ready for the very first flush of a toilet in the very first house that’s built in a subdivision, said Mayor Naheed Nenshi Tuesday.
