
# Popular Dubai markets return this weekend

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:10:00+00:00**

Author: **Will Milner**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/things-to-do/421415-popular-dubai-markets-return-this-weekend)

Market season is officially back in Dubai, with two of the city’s best-loved pop-up retail experiences making their long-awaited returns from a summer hiatus this weekend.The Dubai Flea Market and Business Bay’s Farmers’ Market on the Terrace both start a long season run in the next couple of days and we couldn’t be more excited.First up, is a farmers’ market that has done more to flog organic fruit and veg than anything since Joe Wicks pulled on his short shorts and started hopping around talking about carrots. Early risers, as those who like to chomp down on boxes full of organic vegetables can tend to be, can rock up to Bay Avenue Park in Business Bay between 7am and 1pm on Friday November 1 and Saturday November 2 to stock up.Clear a space in your fruit bowl today.The food is grown locally by farmers and it is a delight for anybody wanting to bring some organic goodness in to their lives. The recurring event will be back in the same place and at the same time every weekend in Business Bay until May so there is no excuse not to fill up on healthier foods. We've also seen incredible organic honey and artisan doughnuts there as well, so don't be too scared by all the knobbly courgettes and mountains of kale.Fri-Sat, 7am-1pm. Farmers' Market on the Terrace, Bay Avenue Park, Business Bay, www.facebook.com/thefarmersmarketontheterrace.If you want to stand on the other side of the stall then Dubai Flea Market’s return is the best place to make a little extra cash.The night market soldiered on bravely through the hottest times, but winter season kicks off on Saturday November 2 at Dubai’s Zabeel Park from 8am to 3pm. Sunshine browsing of expats unwanted oddities is an uplifting experience not to be missed.Whether buying or selling there is no better way to either get rid of your unwanted trash or get the bargain buy you have been waiting for.Need a popcorn-maker that looks like a duck? Come here. Want every episode of an obscure ’80s sitcom in a boxed set of DVDs? Come here. Want half a dozen Stephen King novels to read by the pool? Come here. Want a pristine designer baby pram at a tenth of the price of at a shopping mall? You get the idea.Saturday, November 2. Keep an eye out for future events at different locations if you can’t make this one. Zabeel Park. Dubai Flea Market, www.dubai-fleamarket.com (055 886 8939).These re-openings come hot on the heels of Ripe Market returning for its residency at Academy Park last weekend and confirm that market season is well and truly back in Dubai. Ripe Market even has a dog park this year.As you would expect Time Out will be out and about looking for the best bargains and outdoor shopping experiences in the city.Look out for our stall or nothing guide to Dubai’s best outdoor markets click here.For more things to do in Dubai, click here.
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
