
# Jack Byrne Stands Apart To Create Own Legacy On Day Of History At FAI Cup Final

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:05:45+00:00**

Author: **Robert Redmond**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/football/robredmond/jack-byrne-fai-cup-final-dundalk-shamrock-rovers/)


        Shamrock Rovers have won the FAI Cup for the first time in 32 years. Jack Byrne was the difference.
      
This time last year, Jack Byrne was an unused substitute as Kilmarnock lost 2-1 to Aberdeen in front of 5,200 fans at Rugby Park. The Dubliner would leave the club two months later after making just five appearances. Fed up with football, Byrne returned home to his mother’s house in Ballybough and signed for Shamrock Rovers. Irish domestic football has rehabilitated him.
He’s now an international, arguably the most creative midfielder in Mick McCarthy’s squad, and a talisman for Rovers. He has been the best player in Ireland since returning home at the start of 2019. 364 days after kicking his heels on the Kilmarnock bench, the lowest point in his career, Byrne was at the Aviva Stadium and the difference between the two best teams in the country, the leading light for Shamrock Rovers as they ended a 32-year wait to win the FAI Cup. Byrne was the star of the show as Rovers beat Dundalk on penalties in a dramatic match that finished 1-1 after extra-time.
As the teams lined up, the national anthem played and the President came out to greet the players, the ground became engulfed by smoke from the flares let off by both sets of supporters. From the Dundalk end in the north stand, the air was turned black and red. At the Rovers end on the opposite side of the stadium, it was green and white.
The two clouds of smoke met in the middle of the ground and made the opening few minutes difficult to decipher. Not for the first time at FAI HQ, there was a lack of clarity.
After the smog cleared, Shamrock Rovers had the better of the opening spell. Dundalk were evidently missing the suspended Chris Shields, their midfield general, as Byrne found space between the lines and looked for the ball in every phase of play, at times dribbling past players and opening space. His main weapon was the deft passes he played over the top for Aaron Greene to chase, and after one or two attempts he found his range. The industry of Greene and the artistry of Byrne combined to create Rovers’ first chance of the half. After 12 minutes, the Ireland midfielder floated a tantalising pass over the Dundalk defence for his teammate. Greene pulled away from his marker, found space, controlled the ball and steadied himself, but shot just wide.
The forward, who has scored 11 goals this season, then created two goalscoring chances from nothing. He collected the ball on the half-way line after a Dundalk corner was cleared, sprinted towards goal with three Dundalk players nearby, ignored the option of passing to Graham Burke on his right and cut inside, but saw his shot trickle wide of Gary Rogers’ goal.
A few moments later, Greene created the best chance of the half through nothing more than physical effort and stubbornness. He chased down Daniel Cleary outside the Dundalk penalty area, won the ball and squared it across the box for Ronan Finn. The Rovers midfielder had the goal at his mercy, Rogers was rooted to the spot, waiting for the ball to hit the net. But Finn didn’t make a clean connection. His backheel spun away from the goal and drifted wide.
