
# Liam Payne hints at painful cause of Cheryl split as he admits his part in breakup

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:19:11+00:00**

Author: **Frances Kindon**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/liam-payne-hints-painful-cause-20834588)

It's been 16 months since Liam Payne and Cheryl Cole split, and in that time no specific reason has ever been given.
But now Liam has held his hands up and revealed what went wrong between the pair after the birth of their son Bear in March 2017.
Having dreamed of being a dad from the age of 16, Liam - who was 23 when Bear arrived - said one of the first problems arose when the pressure of fatherhood knocked him for six.
"Becoming a dad at such a young age, it's such a difficult thing," he says in his new documentary, Ant Middleton and Liam Payne: Straight Talking.
"And I think I built fatherhood up so much in my head that it kind of messed me up to start with. I started in a bad place with it," he contiued.
"I think it spooked me out early on, and I was just worried I would not be enough to look after the both of them. They're so important to me — Cheryl as well."
The second issue, he says according to heat magazine, was that he didn't "understand" what Cheryl, 36, was going through as a new mum.
"The one thing I was missing as a man in the relationship I had, was a level understanding about what she was feeling about stuff," he admitted.
"I think I learnt through away being that, while I want to protect her, there's a big part of her that wants to protect me."
Liam, 26, is now dating Texan model Maya Henry, 19, but says Cheryl remains the number one person in his life.
"She's one of the most, if not the most, important people in my life. I'm lucky I have someone who understands what I'm going through," he added.
And he also joked they could get back together if Cheryl "plays her cards right."
Like Liam, Cheryl found fame as a teenager on a reality show and was just 19 when she won a place in Girls Aloud on Popstars: The Rivals in 2002.
She first met Liam in 2008 when he was a 14-year-old hopeful on The X Factor and she was a judge. Their paths crossed again in 2015 when he returned to perform with One Direction and the rest is history.
Cheryl has credited Liam with being the only man not to have cheated on her, and previously opened up about her side of the story.
Revealing how after One Direction split, Liam just wanted to "settle down and have a family," she told the Times she encouraged Liam to pursue a solo career, "and then it didn't work out."
Asked if Liam changed his mind about wanting domestic bliss, she responded, "You'll have to ask him that."
But she admitted he struggled switching his head from pop star to father as his career took off.
Like Liam, she harbours no ill will and describes their existing relationship as "healthy".
"There's no animosity whatsoever. We are learning all the time. We're just like any other couple that have gone through this, but we have a few more eyes watching us... Just a few," she added.
