
# Paisley church hall trashed by mindless vandals

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:40:36+00:00**

Author: **Kenneth Speirs, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/kenneth-speirs/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/paisley-church-hall-trashed-mindless-20815744)

Vandals have left a devastating trail of destruction at a Paisley church.
Doors, electronic burglar alarms, mirrors, crockery and other items were all smashed during the break-in at Glenburn Parish Church hall.
Fire extinguishers were also set off and emptied, leaving white powder on floors, doors and furniture throughout the building.

        
          PAISLEY DAILY EXPRESS: Live news as it happens   
        
      
Jack Pirie, 79, has been an elder at the church for 55 years and says he has never experienced anything like it.
He said: “I am very shocked and saddened that this should happen.
“It is hard to believe such vandalism goes on.
“As well as all the other damage, they emptied the fire extinguishers.
“You can see the powder everywhere. They must have breathed it in. I’ve never seen anything like it.”
Mr Pirie could not put a figure on the damage, but it is likely to cost several hundred pounds to repair.
The hall, which hosts as number of community groups as well as church gatherings at its base in Nethercraigs Road, will be out of action until the damage is fixed and the building made secure.

        READ MORE NEWS:
      

         
      
Long-serving elder Mr Pirie has appealed to the vandals, who struck on the evening of Halloween.
“Please consider other people,” he said.
“Think of the damage and destruction that has affected innocent people.
“Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.”
Mr Pirie also urged the vandals to hand themselves in to the police.

        READ MORE NEWS:
      
Chief Inspector Dougie Falconer, area commander for Paisley, said: “This is a completely mindless act of vandalism which serves absolutely no purpose whatsoever.
“It will deprive parishioners and the wider Glenburn community of a vital resource until the damage is fixed. I would appeal to anyone who may have information about this incident to get in contact with officers.
“I’d also like to reassure the community that we are investigating fully and carrying out additional patrols in the area.”
Anyone with information should call police on 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.
