
# PSG Chief Sends Strong Warning To Zidane Over Mbappe

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:45:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/paris-saint-germain-chief-sends-strong-warning-to-zinedine-zidane-over-kylian-mbappe/666945)

Paris Saint-Germain sporting director Leonardo has sent a strongly worded warning to Real Madrid boss Zinedine Zidane over his recent comments about Kylian Mbappe.

        
          Read: 10 Records Messi & Ronaldo Have Not Yet Broken
        
      
The Frenchman got tongues wagging earlier in the week when he told members of the media that Mbappe's dream had always been to play for Los Blancos.
PSG's sporting director Leonardo has since hit back at the manager, warning him to stop talking about a player who is contracted to Les Parisiens.

        
          Choose the right midfielder for SA's Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt!
        
      
"Honestly, it bothers a little, it bothers," Leonardo told RMC Sport.
"It is not the time to talk about dreams and all that. Stop. Mbappe is very important for us and it is not time to destabilise it.
"He is the best young French player, world champion, one of the best in the world.
"This is not the time to touch and destabilise him. It is time to stop. He has two and a half years of contract with us."

        
          Read: Real Madrid Preparing Record Transfer For Mbappe?
        
      
Recent reports suggested that Real are preparing a world-record €400 million (R6.5 billion) bid for the 2018 FIFA World Cup winner at the end of the season.
