
# Apple TV 4K drops to an all-time-low price — just in time for Apple TV Plus

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:54:25+00:00**

Author: **Emily Heller**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/deals/2019/11/1/20943409/apple-tv-4k-deal-apple-tv-plus-launch)

Apple’s new streaming service, Apple TV Plus, launches today, Nov. 1. The new service, which enters the contentious streaming wars less than two weeks before Disney Plus, boasts an impressive slate of original programming from Hollywood titans like Steven Spielberg and Oprah. It costs $4.99 per month, though new Apple devices come with a free 12-month trial.
Apple TV Plus is, of course, available on most Apple devices, as well as any device with an Apple TV app. If you’re looking for the full 4K experience, though, AT&T is offering an excellent deal on Apple’s 4K streaming device, appropriately named Apple TV 4K. The 32 GB model is on sale for $90, which is half off retail price. That’s the lowest price we’ve seen on the device, which our friends at The Verge called “the most polished experience of any set-top box on the market.”
AT&T didn’t specify how long this deal will be live, only that it’s available “while supplies last.” There’s also a limit of four per customer. If you’re starting to stock up on holiday gifts, this is a great opportunity to snag a couple of top-tier streaming devices on the cheap.
Update: Sadly, this deal sold out within two hours. If you’re still in the market for a 4K streaming device, though, a 4K Amazon Fire TV Stick is on sale for $39.99. (Apple TV is available on Amazon streaming devices.)
