
# Collaboration Can Save Small Colleges

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jeff Abernathy**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffabernathy/2019/11/04/collaboration-can-save-small-colleges/)

By Jeff Abernathy and Mauri Ditzler As liberal arts colleges find themselves under threat, many of us are turning to a seemingly unlikely ally: other liberal arts colleges. More and more, institutions are seeing old rivals as new partners.
Recently, students huddled around a conference table in a class on media theory and culture. At one end of conference table sat the professor, Anthony Collamati, who was flanked by a handful of students sitting on campus at Alma College. At the other end of the table sat a 55-inch television screen where students from Albion College, about 100 miles due south, and Calvin College, about an hour and a half southwest of Alma, sat engaged in the topic of the day.
The course, which is one of three with Google powered technology, only works because of the collaboration between institutions. A decade ago, this kind of collaboration would have been unheard of. Today, it’s absolutely necessary.  
Projections for high school graduates in the Midwest is the stuff of college presidents’ nightmares. Just look at the WICHE data on projections of high school graduates in the state of Michigan - where the vast majority of our students come from. The number of high school students in Michigan peaked in 2007-2008 and has had a steady march southward since then. Next year’s graduating class is projected to have fewer than 100,000 students, which is the lowest in 20+ years. By 2030, Michigan colleges and universities will be looking at roughly 87,000 students, which equates to a 30 percent reduction of high school graduates since the high nearly 25 years earlier.  
And it’s not just Michigan. One not need look far to see that some smaller colleges and universities are in trouble financially. Examples of closures at Mt. Ida, Newbury and even Hampshire are examples of institutions looking for collaborators to help keep the doors open. Several years ago, the Parthenon Group reported that nearly 800 colleges and universities were at risk of closing their doors. The report highlights three “eras in higher education.” The first focuses on tremendous growth between 1968 and 1990 in higher education followed by a 20 year period where technology leads to advances in teaching and learning. The paper calls from 2010 to present day a time of “collaboration” for higher education citing a decreasing number of high school aged graduates and continued state and federal disinvestment in education.  What has changed is the landscape of recruiting students and who our competitors have become.
Both Alma and Albion, for example, lose a large market share of interested students to Michigan State, Grand Valley State and other state institutions. A decade ago these institutions were on our cross applications list, but that list was littered with other Michigan based private liberal arts colleges - Hope, Kalamazoo, Adrian - and other midwestern colleges and universities. Today, it may be a handful of students who are choosing between private liberal arts colleges — most are making a different choice: public or private.  While Alma and Albion are rivals in the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association, we should be more collaborator than competitor in our core work of educating students. We are working to preserve the unique offerings of a tailored liberal arts education. We need to preserve this small-college options, because there are opportunities and experiences, we offer that just cannot be matched by giant public institutions.
As we look to the future, colleges like ours have the opportunity to seek out all manner of areas for deeper collaboration. To thrive despite the enormous headwinds we face, we will need to move fast.
Jeff Abernathy is president of Alma College in Alma, Michigan 
Mauri Ditzler is president of Albion College in Albion, Michigan
