
# Xiaomi CC9 Pro will use a 1CC large sound chamber - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:41:08+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/02/xiaomi-cc9-pro-will-use-a-1cc-large-sound-chamber/)

Xiaomi CC9 Pro will use a 1CC large sound chamber5 (100%) 1 vote
The Xiaomi CC9 Pro is probably the most discussed topic right now. While all the majors about this smartphone are available, some minute info of this device is still hitting the web. According to Xiaomi, the CC9 Pro will come with a 1CC large sound cavity. With this configuration, the loudness of the speaker is twice that of the previous generation. Xiaomi believes that smartphones need loudspeakers that can cope with the noisy nature of many outdoor environments.
From what we already know, the Xiaomi CC9 Pro will come with a 6.47-inch OLED waterdrop display with a resolution of 2340×1080.  The CC9 Pro will come with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 730G chip which uses the same architecture as the Snapdragon 855. In addition, it will have 6GB/8GB/12GB of RAM and 64GB/128GB/256GB of internal storage.
In the camera department, this device uses a Penta-rear camera setup.  Upfront, we have a 32MP selfie shooter sits within the water-drop notch. Speaking of the rear cameras, the Xiaomi CC9 Pro is well on the way to be the first smartphone with a primary 108MP ISOCELL HMX CMOS sensor. The other four cameras include a 12MP portrait sensor with 10x optical zoom, a 5MP sensor with 50x digital zoom, a 20MP super wide-angle lens, and a 2MP 1.5cm super macro lens.
To keep its lights on is a 5260 mAh battery which supports 30W fast charge. Although the power does not seem to be large, it can fully charge in 65 minutes. The CC9 Pro will be officially released at 2 pm on November 5.Via
