
# Ethereum (ETH) Stuck In Range, Bitcoin Struggling Near $9K

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:08:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/01/ethereum-eth-stuck-in-range-bitcoin-struggling-near-9k/)


        Ethereum price is showing a few bearish signs versus the US Dollar, similar to bitcoin. However, ETH price is likely to find a strong support near the $175 level.
      
In the past few sessions, there was a steady decline in Ethereum below the $185 support area against the US Dollar. Moreover, there was a close below the $185 level and the 100 hourly simple moving average.
Finally, ETH spiked below the $180 support and traded to a new intraday low near $177. Recently, there was an upside correction above the $180 and $182 levels.
Ethereum price managed to move above the 23.6% Fib retracement level of the recent drop from the $194 high to $177 low. However, the previous support near the $185 area acted as a resistance and prevented an upside break.
Besides, the pair failed to test the 50% Fib retracement level of the recent drop from the $194 high to $177 low. More importantly, there is a new connecting bearish trend line forming with resistance near $183 on the hourly chart of ETH/USD.
The 100 hourly SMA is also near the $183 level. Therefore, an upside break above the $183 level might push the price above the $185 resistance. The next key resistance is near the $188 level, followed by $190.
On the downside, an immediate support is near the $178 level. The main support is near the $175 level, where the bulls are likely to take a stand. If there is a downside break below the $175 level, there are chances of more losses below the $172 and $170 levels.
Looking at the chart, Ethereum price is struggling to hold the $180 and $178 supports. It could either break the $185 resistance or extend losses below the $175 support. Having said that, a clear break below the $175 support won’t be easy in the coming sessions. Below $175, the next buy zone could be near the $165 area.
Hourly MACD – The MACD for ETH/USD is slowly gaining pace in the bearish zone.
Hourly RSI – The RSI for ETH/USD is currently decline and it is moving lower towards the 40 level.
Major Support Level – $175
Major Resistance Level – $185
