
# Inside Rob Kardashian's fractious relations with his sisters as he emerges after 17 months

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:50:04+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/inside-rob-kardashians-fractious-relations-20794514)

Rob Kardashian was spotted in public for the first time in 17 months as he supported his younger sister Kendall Jenner at her Halloween bash.
Followers of Kylie Jenner's Instagram account were stunned by the ultra rare appearance of Rob, who looked happy to party alongside his siblings for the night.
Rob, 32, had even ditched his trademark black t-shirts and jogging bottoms in favour of bright orange hoodie.
"5am birthday adventures with my two fave people," wrote Kylie, who has reached out to Rob in the past.
While a delighted Kendall described her brother's appearance as the 'best bday present ever.'
Khloe Kardashian , who previously invited Rob to live with her and ex husband Lamar Odom , also wrote: "My favourite photo" followed by three red love hearts.
But Rob has not always been so close to his famous sisters or so happy to appear with them in public.
While his family have relished in the huge success from their reality show Keeping Up With The Kardashians, Rob dipped out of the public eye in 2014, around the time he gained 100lbs.
He even missed sister Kim Kardashian's wedding to Kanye West because of insecurities surrounding his weight.
The star - who admitted he weighed around 21 stone at his heaviest - said he felt "very unhappy" about his appearance after a suit fitting before the 2014 ceremony, and was too lacking in self confidence at the time.
Speaking to PEOPLE, he said: "I was doing suit fittings in Paris right before the wedding and I just wasn't comfortable. I'm 6'1" and at my most I probably weighed 300lbs."
Rob added that he is still "upset" about missing the incredible ceremony, but insisted he had to make the "personal" choice.
"There were cameras at the airport on our trip there and I was very unhappy with the person I saw in all the pictures," he told the magazine.
The sock designer was then reported to be upset over the decision to air his issues on the family reality show.
"Rob feels betrayed that his mom and sisters discussed his issue on the last episode of Keeping Up With The Kardashians," a source shared.
Months  after Kim's nuptials, Rob sparked a social media frenzy when he compared his big sis to Rosamund Pike's psychotic character in the movie Gone Girl.
"This is my sister Kim the b*** from Gone Girl," he wrote beside a bloody still from the movie.
Kim later shrugged off the incident and said: "He thinks he's being funny."
A source told HollywoodLife "[Rob] is frustrated and feels like this whole weight thing on the show is like a broken record.
"It’s like ratings come before him. That his family is more concerned with fame and ratings, than with his actual well being."
A huge row between the siblings was aired in one explosive episode as Khloe raged at her mother Kris Jenner for 'funding Rob's lifestyle'.
During the hour long show, Kim also fired: "Everyone licks Rob's a**. OK we will drive you around with a chauffeur so people don't have to look at you. We had a personal chef on stand by, a trainer. People get sent out to buy him underpants.
"It's pathetic."
A month after the Gone Girl Instagram storm, Rob's sister Kylie reached out to him on social media.
The lip kit mogul shared a sweet family photo from a few years back and wrote: "My best friend, my heart, my brother.”
While a supportive Khloe also wrote: “Never will I ever meet another man as great as you! I know this is the year where you will find your happiness again! I will be right by your side, holding your hand, every step of the way!!! I adore you my one and only brother!!”
Despite initial hesitance, Rob's sisters even got on board with his controversial relationship with Blac Chyna - who had a baby with his sister Kylie Jenner's former boyfriend Tyga.
Rob went on to have his own child with Chyna, daughter Dream, who is often pictured on social media with her young cousins.
However, Rob has missed out on several birthday parties and family vacations in recent years and even dropped out of the family's reality show altogether.
Last year Rob stunned fans with a rare appearance with Dream in sister Kylie's video documentary of her pregnancy.
The former reality TV star cropped up in Kylie Jenner's emotional and intimate reveal of her pregnancy with Stormi. revealing her pregnancy and the birth of her baby girl.
In the family footage, shot on an old-school camcorder, Rob can be seen introducing toddler daughter Dream to her little cousin Chicago - the newborn daughter of Kim Kardashian and Kanye West , who arrived in mid-January via a surrogate mother.
As a heavily pregnant Kylie cuddles Chi in her arms on the sofa, Dream stands over her to get a good look at her new cousin.
Since then Rob returned to keeping a low profile, with his recent appearance at Halloween shocking fans who claim he looks better than ever.
Kardashian sources told TMZ how Rob had lost weight by eating healthier, exercising, and quitting alcohol.
