
# T-Mobile announces plans for post-Sprint merger and expands its 5G network rollout

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Joe Fedewa**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/t-mobile-sprint-merger-plans-5g-rollout/)

T-Mobile has been in the news a lot recently, but not due to typical carrier announcements. The tech world has talked a lot about the Sprint/T-Mobile merger that is most likely going to happen. Today, however, T-Mobile has some news about the future of its service and its continued rollout of 5G.
First up, let’s start with 5G. T-Mobile’s nationwide 5G network will go live on December 6th. This nationwide network is built on the company’s 600 MHz band, whereas the 5G network they previously started rolling out is built on the short-range mmWave technology. 600 MHz radio has a longer range and can pass through buildings better. The network is said to cover 200 million customers and will hit speeds up to 450 Mbps by 2024.
Next up is the “Connecting Heroes Initiative,” which is part of the company’s “5G for Good” plan. The initiative would bring free 5G access to first responders, police officers, firefighters, and EMS agencies for 10 years if the Sprint/T-Mobile merger goes through. Qualifying officials can sign up for the program on T-Mobile’s website. There is some fine print, of course. The offer won’t cover areas without T-Mobile coverage and video streams will be limited to 480p.
Keeping with the “5G for Good” theme, the next plan is about giving households free internet. “Project 10Million” would give free internet service to 10 million households if the Sprint/T-Mobile merger happens. The goal of this initiative is to eradicate the “homework gap” that prevents children without home internet to complete schoolwork online. The Internet has become a big part of schools which puts some kids at a disadvantage. Eligible families will receive 100GB of free Internet access each year.
Last, but certainly not least, is the new “T-Mobile Connect” plan. This is a prepaid plan that would offer 2GB of data for just $15 per month. Again, like the previous plans, this only happens if the Sprint/T-Mobile merger goes through. T-Mobile Connect includes access to 5G data and you can choose to bump up to 5GB for $25 per month. Also, T-Mobile would add 500MB to your monthly plan for every year you have it (up to 5 years).
All of this sounds great, but these announcements are clearly an attempt to win over people on the proposed Sprint/T-Mobile merger. Is it enough to get you on board?

        Source: T-Mobile
      
