
# Rixos Premium Dubai reveals new hotel and dining deal

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:42:00+00:00**

Author: **Darragh Murphy**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/things-to-do/422287-rixos-premium-dubai-reveals-new-hotel-and-dining-deal)

Put the words ‘all-inclusive’ in front of a staycation offer in Dubai and our ears immediately prick up.
Rixos Premium Dubai along The Walk, JBR has revealed its ‘All-In Dine Around’ staycation deal, and by the looks of it, it’s true to its word.
With prices starting at Dhs1,350 for two, staycationers will get free house beverages, a buffet breakfast and a Dhs150 voucher each day to be spent at the hotel’s venues.
As for what to expect, staycationers can start their day with an international breakfast buffet at the hotel’s Turquoise Restaurant. Tuck into hot grilled breakfast items, fluffy pancakes and omelettes, healthy juices, a selection of cheeses, cold cuts and salads.
There’s also a special afternoon tea to be had at the Godiva Café from 3pm until 6pm each day, featuring a chocolate-based menu that includes freshly baked crêpes with Godiva chocolate, along with specialty Turkish coffee to sip on.
As the day winds down, head over to the Turquoise Restaurant's Vista Lounge to get two free soft drinks or house beverages with views of Rixos’ pool area.
However, with the Dhs150 voucher, it’s free rein to spend it in any of the hotel’s restaurants, nightlife spots and eateries. This includes crazy shakes and big burgers at Black Tap, steaks and party vibes at STK JBR, along with pizza and other Italian treats at Luigia.
There’s also pub grub and street food bites at massive party spot Lock, Stock and Barrel JBR, upmarket bar, lounge and bistro District and poolside sundowners to be had a Azure Beach.
For more brilliant staycation and hotel deals around Dubai, the UAE and beyond, click here.From Dhs1,350 (for two). Ongoing. Rixos Premium Dubai, The Walk, JBR (04 520 0000).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
