
# Nintendo Switch Deals For Black Friday 2019: What Bundles And Savings To Expect

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dave Thier**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidthier/2019/11/05/nintendo-switch-deals-for-black-friday-2019-what-bundles-and-savings-to-expect/)

The PlayStation 4 and Xbox One might be in their waning years, but the Nintendo Switch is just getting started. Nintendo’s new console is now Nintendo’s new console family, and the recent addition of the Switch lite seems poised to make big waves here in the holiday shopping season, particularly with Pokemon Sword and Shield, Link’s Awakening and the triumphant Luigi’s Mansion 3 bearing its standard in a relatively light year for other major releases. So as we look forward to Black Friday, it’s worth thinking about what sort of deals we’re going to see. The headlining deal of 2018 was a $299.99 bundle with Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, a significant savings considering that the base Switch did not come with a game, and that if you were going to buy a game, it might as well be Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. The game is such a good starter title(and a good way to upsell on extra controllers) that I actually wouldn’t be surprised for it to show up in bundles again.
We’ve only seen one Nintendo Switch deal so far, and it doesn’t indicate that we’re going to see a particularly busy year for Switch deals. It comes to us from Kohl’s, and it’s mostly just the console and some accessories for a moderate discount. The $90 in Kohl’s cash helps, for sure, but that’s retailer-specific and doesn’t neccesarily indicate what we’ll see from other retailers.
I’d expect Walmart to bring a build-your-own bundle to the table, like it typically does, and for Gamestop to throw in a similar offer with some Gamestop credit thrown in. Overall, however, it looks like we’re going to see another year where Switch deals are defined by bundles rather than strict discounts over MSRP.
Where the Switch Lite is concerned, I’d expect some sort of standard bundle for something like $199.99, like we saw with the Switch last year. The game raises an interesting question, however: Mario Kart isn’t so much of a shoe-in because the lack of a detachable joy-cons means its not quite as ideal as it is for the Standard Switch. Super Mario Odyssey, Splatoon 2 and The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild are some of Nintendo’s mainstays on the system, so maybe one of those.
Regardless, I wouldn’t be planning on massive Switch discounts. If you’re looking to save money, I predict that the best deals will be store credit-oriented in one way or another. We’ll see soon as more ads get released.
