
# Geoffrey Pyatt, American Destabilisation Specialist in Greece

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:45:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/analysis/201911061077231414-geoffrey-pyatt-american-destabilisation-specialist-in-greece/)


        Three years have passed since US Ambassador to Greece Geoffrey Pyatt arrived in Athens as head of the American diplomatic mission. His interest in Greece is enormous. The experienced career diplomat is seen, literally, everywhere, and takes part in almost all areas of public life. But what is behind this show?
      
Before his appointment to Athens, Geoffrey Pyatt served as the US ambassador to Ukraine. It was under him that a coup d'etat took place in Ukraine and, analysts believe, it was he who was the main instigator of Euromaidan.
The 2014 coup d’état led to the removal from power of then-Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych and the coming to power of the pro-American Petro Poroshenko. As the US Ambassador to Ukraine, Geoffrey Pyatt became known for leaking the recording of his telephone conversation in January 2014 with then US Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland.
The State Department later admitted that the US had invested $5 billion in “support for democracy” in Ukraine.
The diplomat was sent from Kiev to Greece, which traditionallly has had friendly ties with Russia.
In October, Greece and the United States concluded an indefinite agreement on cooperation in the defence sector, which, in addition to expanding the US Sixth Fleet's naval base in Crete, provides the Pentagon with the infrastructure of the bases at Stefanovikio, Larisa, and Alexandroupolis.
At the same time, Isihos accused the US ambassador of being behind a crisis in the Church:
Dimitrios Patelis analysed the US ambassador's actions with regard to the military:
At the same time, Pyatt promotes the image of a so-called “citizen diplomat”: he shows interest in Greek sports, meets with Giannis Antetokounmpo (Greek professional basketball player for the Milwaukee Bucks in the NBA) and Greek Deputy Sports Minister:
“Pyatt called Greece 'a mechanism which opens doors' in promoting the strategic interests of the US and NATO in the region. During the crisis, he did everything possible to ensure the Mediterranean and the Middle East regions’ subjugation to the American chariot”, the expert added.
Thrace and especially the port of Alexandroupolis are of great interest to the US ambassador. Greek journalist Antonis “Tony” Bosnakudis, political analyst and military expert, has commented on the activity of Geoffrey Pyatt in that region of the country.
According to the journalist, since the summer of 2017, when Geoffrey Pyatt first went to Alexandroupolis, everyone who's closely followed his activities has been able to draw certain conclusions:
At the same time, the analyst explains what in his opinion is behind the work on lifting the dredge barge Olga, which sank in 2010 and prevented the port from being used at full capacity. The cost of lifting works amounted to 2.3 million euros, and were fully paid by the United States under the personal control of Pyatt.
“That is, the presence of Geoffrey Pyatt in Alexandroupolis and his actions are aimed primarily at neutralising what has been achieved by Greek-Russian cooperation in recent years, freeing everything that was planned. From the standpoint of America’s dominance, this is the message: 'We are here, you can’t do anything, accept it'".
According to Bosnakudis, the new rules of the game in the region are due to the interests lobbied by Geoffrey Pyatt and do not really benefit the region. The one thing they've managed to do, according to the journalist, is to neutralise existing Greek-Russian cooperation.
For example, at the end of summer, when there was a serious problem with the ferry service between the ports in Alexandroupolis and Samothrace, it turned out that there was a proposal to use Russian amphibious aircraft for transport links with this island and other destinations. However, it was frozen due to the anti-Russian policy conducted by the American diplomat in Alexandroupolis.
The views and opinions expressed in the article do not necessarily reflect those of Sputnik.
