
# LeBaron family killings: Seven-month-old girl found alive in a bullet-ridden SUV

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:48:31+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, Jose Luis Gonzalez, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/lebaron-family-killings-seven-month-20830164?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

A baby girl was miraculously found unharmed sitting in the bullet-ridden car at the centre of a bloody massacre that claimed nine lives.
Late on Monday night, seventeen members of the breakaway LeBaron Mormon community were travelling to a wedding in a convoy of SUVs when they were "ambushed" about 70 miles south of the US border in Sonora state.
Three women and six children lost their lives in a slaughter believe to have been committed by Mexican cartels.
As authorities worked to clear the wreckage and trace the nine victims' final moments, a sliver of of hope has appeared amidst the carnage.
Footage has emerged of the moment a seven-year-old girl was found alive in the bullet-ridden car.
Faith, daughter of Christina Langford Johnson, was sat unharmed and strapped into her car seat when police arrived at the scene.
 
Family members have said her mum got out of the car and waved her arms at the gunman to show she wasn't a threat.
While Mrs Johnson was gunned down about 15 metres from the vehicle, she may have diverted the cartel members' focus away from the car for long enough to save her daughter's life.
Faith is now with her dad Tyler Johnson.
Following the massacre, relatives of the American victims slain by unknown gunmen travelled from the United States and other parts of Mexico into the remote region.
A convoy of dozens of SUVs and pickup trucks escorted by Mexican National Guard outliers rolled into the municipality of Bavispe ahead of two of the women being laid to rest on Thursday.
"We came prepared to sleep on the floor, in tents. Whatever is needed to support the families who died in this terrorist act," said Alex LeBaron, a former Congressman and cousin of one of the women, Rhonita Miller.
Mr LeBaron, who was with the convoy, told Mexican radio that mourners brought food and mattresses with them for the journey.
The remains of Mrs Miller and her children, whose bodies were reduced to ash and bones when the car they were in was shot at and went up in flames, are due to be buried in another village called Colonia LeBaron on Friday.
 
The LeBaron family first came to Mexico in the early 20th century and now claims to be made up of more than 5,000 members.
The victims came from prominent local families, including the LeBarons, Millers and Langfords.
Nestled in the fertile valleys of the Sierra Madre mountains just a few hours drive south from the U.S. border, the oldest communities stem from the late 1800s, when upheaval over polygamy in the Utah-based church led to their founding.
The settlements have marriage ties to others in the United States.
Grieving relatives fondly remembered happy childhoods marked by thriving farms and big families.
"We had full confidence, and full trust, completely fearless, we'd lived there for 70 to 80 years in absolute peace and prosperity," said Lafe Langford, 33, a friend and relative of the victims.
He described the farms, carpenter shops and sawmills of La Mora, the village where the victims lived, as a "paradise for children," with 350 full-time residents, and another 1,000 who, like him, shuttle between the United States and Mexico.
Authorities and relatives say the killings appeared to be the work of the Juarez and the Sinaloa Cartels, who fight for control of lucrative drug routes that run through the sparsely populated mountainous areas into the United States.
Mexico has unleashed its military against cartels since 2006 but despite the arrests or killings of leading traffickers, the campaign has failed to reduce violence.
In the aftermath of the bloodshed U.S. President Donald Trump called for Mexico and the US to come together and "wage war" on the drug cartels.
