
# Refer to reliable sources on radio frequency electromagnetic field to avoid misunderstandings — MCMC

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:14:40+00:00**

Author: **Nazuin Zulaikha Kamarulzaman**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/refer-reliable-sources-radio-frequency-electromagnetic-field-avoid-misunderstandings-%E2%80%94-mcmc)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 6): The Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) has urged the public to refer to reliable sources to prevent misunderstandings about the radio frequency electromagnetic field (RF-EMF) issue.
It said in a statement today that MCMC always monitors the construction, placement and radiation level emitted by communications transmitters in Malaysia.
MCMC said the construction of telecommunications towers near housing areas would not cause health hazards to the residents nearby, including senior citizens, as the towers were constructed or placed according to existing guidelines.
"About 24,000 researches have been carried out in the last 30 years by scientists from all over the world to study the effects of electromagnetic field (EMF) emitted by the telecommunications transmitters to the biological systems.
"The World Health Organisation concluded that based on the studies, it is evident that the exposure to EMF by telecommunications transmitter does not affect biological systems or pose any health impacts," it said.
According to the statement, the health ministry concurred with the fact that there is no scientific and concrete evidence to support allegations on potential health hazard caused by radiation from the telecommunication transmitters.
The RF-EMF emission levels from telecommunications towers in the country are also under control at all times, which is below the recommended limit in the guideline set by the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection.
"The mobile communications technology uses radio frequency and clustered under the non-ionising radiation (NIR) category," MCMC said, stressing that continuous exposure to NIR does not cause long-term damage to human tissues.
"It does not have enough energy to induce change in molecules in living matter or body cells," it added.
The radio frequency transmission level test conducted by the Malaysian Nuclear Agency across the country also found that radiation level in areas close to the transmitters are very low and are at a safe level.
