
# Steven Gerrard makes Rangers trophy pledge as he delivers wide-ranging address to fans

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:47:54+00:00**

Author: **Liam Bryce, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/liam-bryce/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/steven-gerrard-makes-rangers-trophy-20791343)

Steven Gerrard insists no one at Rangers will take a moment's rest until a major trophy has been delivered to Ibrox.
The manager has delivered a wide-ranging address to fans as the club revealed its latest financial results.
Rangers posted an £11.3million loss with over £30m having been ploughed into the playing squad over the last three years.
But there was also a huge 63 per cent increase in turnover following qualification for the Europa League group stage last season.
Gerrard repeated that trick again this term but knows the "extremely demanding" fanbase wants more.
Namely, a long-awaited piece of silverware.
It's a task Gerrard is well aware will define his reign in Glasgow as he insisted the club is now better placed than ever to topple Celtic at Scottish football's peak.
Ahead of Sunday's Betfred Cup semi-final against Hearts, he said: "First, and I make no apologies if I am repeating myself, let me say that it is an honour to be the manager of this massive club which has such a long and rich history of success.
"I discovered very quickly – in fact, as soon as I stepped through the front door for the first time – that Ibrox is a special place and that I am able to work here is such a privilege.
 
"Having said that, I did stress last year that I could see instantly that a lot of changes would have to be made if I, along with a fantastic backroom team, wanted to give the amazing supporters of this club the success they crave and deserve.
"Many changes have been made – in terms of players, backroom staff, and facilities – and it is to the board’s credit that they have been willing to finance our needs.
"As always, I thank the directors for their support and it is our intention to deliver tangible rewards in return. Season 2018/19 was a mixture of good and not so good with the highlight perhaps being our success in the qualifying rounds of the Europa League.
"We became one of the very few teams to negotiate a way out of those rounds, which come around all too early in a new season, and into the group stages.
"Bringing European nights back to Ibrox was an achievement in itself and although we have done it for a second time this season I am only too aware that our fans need more.
"They need a trophy and that has to be the aim. That is why we continue to reshape and improve the team by making the most of the transfer windows and again, I thank the directors for their backing on this front.
"We have to be careful when bringing in new players because it isn’t simply about improving the quality of our play.
"We must also make sure we are bringing in players with the correct mentality because of course Rangers is all about winning and we need players who share that desire and who will bring out the best in those around them.
"I believe we are getting there and I hope our supporters can also see that we are improving at a decent speed.
"I am sure everyone will agree that right now we are in better shape than at any time in recent years but because this is Rangers, and because we have the best but extremely demanding supporters, we can never take our foot off the pedal.
"We must keep moving forward while reinstating the winning mentality which has underpinned this club for more than a century.
"The players are entitled to feel good about what they have achieved so far this season but they know more, much more is required of them.
"It is my job to make sure no one forgets that and not a single one of us can rest until a trophy has been delivered. It is then that we will know we are charting the correct course back to the top of Scottish football.
"I am confident, though, that with an excellent backroom staff behind me we have the experience and expertise to meet all challenges and any difficulties which may be thrown up before us as this season progresses.
"We all know what is required of us and we have all experienced enough of this club’s support to understand what they desire. I must say, Rangers supporters in full voice behind the team are a sight to behold.
"They are astonishing and a powerful driving force for us. It is our responsibility to give them something back but I did not come here to fail.
"I am a winner and I believe I can continue to be a winner with this great and remarkable club. I hope you all know how much I value and appreciate your support. Thank you for your support.
