
# 'Shark Tank' judge Lori Greiner confronts 'chauvinistic' contestant

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:49:11+00:00**

Author: **Nate Day**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/shark-tank-lori-greiner-chauvinistic-contestant)

"Shark Tank" judges are known for their brutal honesty. Take, for instance, judge Lori Greiner, who recently confronted a contestant for "chauvinistic behavior."
When Sarath Malepati visited the show to pitch an immune-system pack filled with vitamins, Greiner stated that despite her constructive feedback, she wasn't receiving the same attention that the male judges were getting.
Greiner, 49, told Malepati that she preferred natural products like his and that she picked up on odd behavior from Malepati.

        
          'JERSEY SHORE' STAR MIKE 'THE SITUATION' SORRENTINO CELEBRATES FIRST WEDDING ANNIVERSARY
        
      
"You are kind of looking at me funny," she said. "Do you agree with what I am saying or no?”
She told the contestant that she takes zinc when she feels a cold coming on, and he quickly replied, "Well the product has zinc, so let's talk about zinc," while appearing to not look at her.
"Wait a minute, why are you ignoring what I'm saying?" Greiner asked. "That's odd to me. I'm talking to you and you're looking over at Mark (Cuban, a fellow judge) and I'm telling you that I'm into all of this."
"You know what, I'm just going to finish," she continued after being interrupted by one of her fellow judges. "I was the customer, I've been taking zinc for years, I'm a believer in this ... but the fact that when I'm talking to you, you don't even look at me, I'm out."
