
# Arsene Wenger is too old for ‘front line’ managerial return with Bayern Munich says Marcel Desailly

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:14:57+00:00**

Author: **Karl Matchett**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/european/bayern-munich-manager-news-arsene-wenger-marcel-desailly-a9189006.html)

Arsene Wenger has been tipped as a potential appointment for Bayern Munich‘s vacant head coach position, but Marcel Desailly feels it wouldn’t be the right move.
The former Arsenal boss won three league titles with the Gunners, as well as one with Monaco earlier in his career.
Bayern are on the lookout for a new boss after the departure of Niko Kovac, with Wenger and Ralf Rangnick thought to be the front-runners to take over until the end of the 2019/20 season.
While Wenger has spoken about his admiration of Bayern’s approach, former Chelsea and AC Milan star Desailly feels the time has past for his compatriot to be in the dugout.
Speaking on BeIN Sports, the World Cup-winning defender feels Wenger still has lots to give to the game, but in a different role.
“Bayern Munich is a real institution. But to have him back in [the] front line I’m not sure,” Desailly said.
“He’s maybe more than that now. He should not be in the dugout. It’s not for him any more.
“He has great ability, great other possibility to restructure, to build up the philosophy of the club toward the first team and the academy in the [technical director] role, but as a front line [coach] we don’t see him any more. He’s 70 years old, he’s tempered by it.”
Bayern had Hans-Dieter Flick in the dugout on Wednesday night, as they beat Olympiacos 2-0 in the Champions League.
They now face a headline clash against Borussia Dortmund in the Bundesliga this weekend, before the final two-week international break of the calendar year.
