
# Diego Maradona hits back after daughter claims legend is 'dying from the inside'

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:58:17+00:00**

Author: **Ned Keating, Gerard Couzens**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/diego-maradona-hits-back-after-20815921)

Diego Maradona has denied his daughter's claims that the Argentina legend is 'dying from the inside', before insisting he will leave his children with nothing.
Fears were sparked about Maradona's health earlier this week after daughter Gianinna, voiced her concerns about her father's wellbeing.
The ex-wife of Manchester City forward Sergio Aguero took to social media to speak about Diego, posting: "He is not dying because his body has decided so, he is getting killed from the inside and does not realise it.
"I do not believe in the parameters of normal, but that is far from the reality of what he deserves. Pray for him. Please! Thank you!"
That led to immediate concerns being raised about the health of the former Barcelona attacker, who is currently in charge of Gimnasia de la Plata in his homeland.
However, the 59-year-old has hit back in an astonishing video in which he refutes his Gianinna's claims, before saying he will donate everything he has earned when he does die.
 
In the clip that was posted on his official YouTube account, Maradona said: "I want to tell you that I’m not dying at all, that I sleep peacefully because I’m working.
"I don't know what she meant to say or what she had interpreted.
"What I do know is that as you get older, people worry more about what you're going to leave behind than what you're doing.
"I tell you that I'm not going to leave anything behind, that I'm going to donate it.
"I'm not going to give away everything I earned by running during my life, I'm going to donate it."
Maradona returned to his homeland earlier this year to take up the manager's job at Gimnasia, agreeing a deal until the end of the season with the Primera Division outfit.
