
# Canelo Alvarez Vs. Sergey Kovalev Live Blog, Round-By-Round Analysis, Unofficial Scorecard And Results

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Peter Kahn**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/peterkahn/2019/11/02/canelo-alvarez-vs-sergey-kovalev-live-blog-round-by-round-analysis-unofficial-scorecard-and-results/)

WELCOME TO THE LIVE BLOGThank you for joining me tonight for a special live blog at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas for the Canelo Alvarez vs. Sergey Kovalev fight. As always I'll do my best to be your eyes and ears for this WBO light heavyweight championship bout as Canelo will be attempting to win a world title in a fourth weight class when he challenges Kovalev.
The Undercard is already underway live on DAZN. While I won't be providing my unofficial scorecard for the undercard bouts, I will provide updates and round by round scoring for the main event.
Follow me on Twitter @peterkahn. I'll be here all night happy to read your comments and answer any questions. I'd love to know who you're picking to win. Canelo or Kovalev?

        PROGRAMMING NOTE:
      
DAZN has chosen to wait until the conclusion of the UFC 244 broadcast featuring Jorge Masvidal vs. Nate Diaz for the “BMF” belt. A DAZN executive informed me a short while ago that we can expect the ring walk for Canelo vs. Kovalev to take place between 12:20 a.m. to 12:50 a.m. ET.
A lot of people are complaining about this, but I feel it was a smart move by DAZN and benefits the entire combat sports fanbase as there are many crossover fans that want to enjoy both main events this evening. Present company included!
While you’re at it, this isn’t a bad time to sign up for DAZN if you still don’t have a subscription.

        CHA CHING!
      
Not bad for a night’s work.

        DON'T FORGET TO SCROLL DOWN FOR THE LATEST UPDATES
      

        THE ODDS
      
Earlier in the week I published by best bets for this fight. Currently, according to the boxing odds at BetOnline Canelo is a -400 favorite to dethrone the current champion Kovalev who is a +330 underdog. This is the biggest line for Canelo since the fight was announced. While there isn’t value betting Canelo the moneyline, if you read my best bets, you’ll find many prop bets that provide sports bettors with the ability to cash in.

        KEYS TO VICTORY:
      
A couple of days ago I published my keys to victory for Canelo and my keys to victory for Kovalev for this fight. Who do you think is going to win and how? Let me know on Twitter @peterkahn.
I caught up with Kovalev’s hall of fame trainer James Buddy McGirt right before camp and asked him how Kovalev is going to be able to beat Canelo.
While we’re waiting, let’s take a closer look at tonight’s main event matchup.

        DON'T FORGET TO SCROLL DOWN FOR THE LATEST UPDATES
      

        THE OFFICIALS FOR CANELO VS. KOVALEV
      
Referee Russell Mora 
Judges: Julie Lederman, Dave Moretti, Don Trella
We still have two more fights before the main event. According to DAZN, the ring walks won’t start until between 12:20 a.m. to 12:50 a.m. ET.
DAZN broadcast in serious time kill mode right now...
The Las Vegas Golden Knights showing their support for Canelo.

        CANELO IS IN THE BUILDING!
      

        DON'T FORGET TO SCROLL DOWN FOR THE LATEST UPDATES
      

        THE KRUSHER IS IN THE BUILDING!
      
Just one more fight to go before Canelo and Kovalev go head to head. Ryan Garcia up next. DAZN doing a lot of time killing right now. Ryan Garcia makes quick work of Romero Duno in the first round by knockout.
We’re getting close though. Stick with me here and I’ll be providing my unofficial scorecard for Canelo vs. Kovalev. Follow me on Twitter @peterkahn and let me know your prediction.

        MAIN EVENT UP NEXT!
      
The DAZN broadcast is at the mercy of the Jorge Masvidal vs. Nate Diaz fight as DAZN expressed they won’t start the Canelo vs. Kovalev fight until the UFC 244 main event it over.

        DON'T FORGET TO SCROLL DOWN FOR THE LATEST
      
We’re just moments away. DAZN in serious time kill mode right until UFC 244 is over, but we’re getting close. Stick with me as I’ll be your eyes and ears from the main event.

        CURRENT SITUATION
      
DAZN should win an Emmy this year in the time fill category... We’re going on 1:00 a.m. ET. Thank goodness for daylight saving time at 2:00 a.m. this morning.
So now both Canelo and Kovalev are laying down in their dressing rooms watching UFC 244. Professionally speaking, this is too much time for these guys to be in the dressing room wrapped and gloved. They’re being treated like a swing bout.
We’re just a few minutes away.
National Anthems have begun. Ring walks to follow. To say I am underwhelmed at the moment is an understatement. Unacceptable to make fans wait until after 1:00 a.m. to watch this fight. I will probably limit my scorecard to who I felt won the round without too much commentary. This fight needs to get started.

        ROUND ONE
      
Kovalev wins round one behind the jab and lack of activity by Canelo
Kovalev 10-9 (Peter Kahn unofficial scorecard)

        ROUND TWO
      
Canelo shows more in the second round, but Kovalev still the more active fighter, throwing and landing more. Round to Kovalev
Kovalev 20-18 (Peter Kahn unofficial scorecard)

        ROUND THREE
      
Kovalev wins the round simply on activity. Canelo not letting his hands go. Kovalev throwing more punches and landing more punches in total. Round goes to Kovalev
Kovalev 30-27 (Peter Kahn unofficial scorecard)

        ROUND FOUR
      
Canelo finally wins a round on power shots. Canelo landing to the body and being more aggressive. Kovalev still fighting at the same pace, but Canelo does more in a close round.
Kovalev 39-37 (Peter Kahn unofficial scorecard)

        ROUND FIVE
      
Action picks up by both fighters. Canelo landed cleaner shots to body and head. Kovalev still fighting the same way, Canelo closing the distance.
Kovalev 48-47 (Peter Kahn unofficial scorecard)

        ROUND SIX
      
Canelo closing the distance. Kovalev looking to slow down. Canelo’s power winning this round. Kovalev not able to tie up in the middle of the ring. Canelo wins this round.
EVEN 57-57 (Peter Kahn unofficial scorecard)
