
# Great Britain unlikely to fly out replacement for injured winger Ryan Hall

Published at: **2019-11-03T07:43:45+00:00**

Author: **Julie Stott**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-league/great-britain-unlikely-fly-out-20800871)

Great Britain are unlikely to fly out an emergency replacement despite losing winger Ryan Hall.
The Lions star dislocated his knee in the 12-8 Test defeat by New Zealand in Auckland on Saturday.
It is a recurrence of an injury that saw him miss games for Sydney Roosters this year and Hall will miss Saturday's return showdown with the Kiwis and possibly next week's Test against Papua New Guinea as well.
 
It piles pressure on a back line that is already missing Oliver Gildart following his dislocated shoulder in the opening game against Tonga.
Gildart, the only specialist centre in the 24-man squad, flies home on Wednesday and will have surgery on Friday.
That means Great Britain are now down to one recognised winger in Jermaine McGillvary and two stand-in centres in Zak Hardaker and Jake Connor.
But it is understood that the Lions will not take up the option of flying out a replacement, as they are allowed under the rules.
Wayne Bennett is believed to prefer using current squad players out of position rather than expecting a new player to fit straight into the team after a lengthy flight.
It means utility star Connor or full-back Hardaker could now be switched on to the wing with back rower John Bateman moved into the centres.
