
# The ideal NVIDIA GPUs for Red Dead Redemption 2 are hefty

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Ash**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/nvidia-red-dead-redemption-2-ideal-gpus/)


        Red Dead Redemption 2 launches on PC today, November 5th, and NVIDIA has released a list of its recommended GPUs for 60+ FPS gameplay. Be warned: they’re hard hitters.
      
Before we get into NVIDIA’s list, here are the absolute minimum specifications as recommended by Rockstar itself:
Looks fairly simple, right? The game will even run on Windows 7. Sure, your horse might look like it was cobbled together in Minecraft, but it’ll run. What’s to worry about?
Below are Rockstar’s recommended specs, which should help you get the best all-round experience from Red Dead Redemption 2:
Note that Rockstar recommends the NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1060. In comparison, NVIDIA recommends at least the GeForce RTX 2060 for ‘ideal’ 60+ FPS 1920 x 1080 gameplay.
NVIDIA also says you can use a GeForce RTX 2070 or even a GeForce RTX 2070 SUPER for 60+ FPS gameplay at even higher resolution. You can check out the chart below for more information.
If you’re gaming at 3840 x 2160 then firstly, congratulations on having such an impressive setup! Secondly, you’ll only be able to play in 60+ FPS if you have the hefty GeForce RTX 2080 TI and you’re running at Medium-High graphics settings. Don’t even think about using High. Just don’t.
If you want to run at High across the board at 4K with 60 FPS, you should consider using NVIDIA’s new upscaling and sharpening technology to upscale gameplay to 4K from 3264 x 1836 or 2880 x 1620. This technology gives a “sizeable performance improvement” with only a minimal reduction in image clarity, so it’s a pretty good compromise.
For more information, you can check out NVIDIA’s article on the topic here. If your GPU isn’t listed, don’t panic – as long as you have at least the NVIDIA GTX 770 2GB, you’ll be able to at least run Red Dead Redemption 2.
Red Dead Redemption 2 is now available on PC through the Rockstar Games Launcher, Epic Games Store, Green Man Gaming, and the Humble Store. It’ll be coming to Steam in December so, for those who prefer Valve’s platform, just hang tight for now.
