
# All iPhone 11 cases on sale, plus new lows on 10.2-inch iPad and 15% off iTunes credit

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:04:23+00:00**

Author: **Trevor Daugherty**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/05/iphone-11-cases-deals/)

Apple’s official iPhone 11 cases are all on sale at Amazon, plus the new 10.2-inch iPad has hit a fresh all-time low price. We’re also seeing discounted iTunes gift cards today. Hit the jump for all that and more in the latest 9to5Toys Lunch Break.
Amazon is now offering near all-time low prices on Apple’s latest iPhone 11/Pro/Max cases from $28. There are multiple colors available in nearly every instance, so be sure to check out all of the listings at each link below. Here’s a full breakdown of pricing on this landing page.
Apple’s latest 10.2-inch iPad is at new all-time low prices from $299 via Amazon and B&H. Today’s deals are $30 off across the board, including cellular configurations. With a larger 10.2-inch display, Apple Pencil support, and compatibility with smart connector accessories, this is arguably one of the most compelling iPads in Apple’s stable currently. Includes an A10 Fusion chip, 8MP camera, and support for 1080p HD recording. Head over to our announcement coverage for additional details.
Amazon has now launched a wide-ranging gift card promotion. While we are seeing a number of notable discounts, today’s App Store deal is certainly a standout. You can now get $50 worth of Apple App Store credit for $42.50 with free digital delivery. That’s up to 15% off your next purchase across any of Apple’s digital marketplaces including apps, movies, TV Shows, digital subscriptions, and much more. With loads of the year’s best sales on the horizon, now is a great time to have some discounted credit in your pocket.
Amazon currently offers the Bose Home 500 AirPlay 2 Speaker for $299. Find it for $1 more at Best Buy. Usually selling for $499, today’s offer is good for a 25% discount, beats the previous price drop by $51, and marks a new Amazon all-time low. Headlined by AirPlay 2 support, this speaker is said to offer wall-to-wall stereo sound thanks to its internal speaker array. Those looking to bring room-filling audio playback to their Alexa or Assistant-enabled setups are also in luck, as both Amazon and Google’s voice assistants come built into the Bose Home 500. There’s also a display screen for showcasing album art, both Bluetooth as well as Wi-Fi connectivity, and more.
Amazon offers the Logitech K480 Bluetooth Multi-Device Keyboard for $20. You’ll also find this deal matched over at Best Buy. Originally $50, today’s deal is down from the usual $30 price tag and a match of the best we’ve seen at Amazon. This model delivers a 3-in-1 design made to work with multiple devices simultaneously. Simply flip the switch and jump from one Bluetooth device to the next. It offers a full QWERTY design and a built-in tray so you can easily prop up various smartphones and tablets.
