
# Lewis Hamilton claims sixth F1 title after picking up US Grand Prix podium place

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:47:29+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/formula-1/breaking-lewis-hamilton-claims-sixth-20804371)

Lewis Hamilton etched his name further into the Formula One history books as he clinched his sixth world championship crown with a thrilling second place at the US Grand Prix.
Mercedes team-mate Valtteri Bottas won Sunday's race in Austin but it was Hamilton who was celebrating after securing a podium spot which was enough to wrap up another title.
The brilliant Brit, who needed to finish eighth or higher to secure the title, has now moved one above Juan Manuel Fangio and within striking range of Michael Schumacher's record haul of seven.
And the result in Austin means Hamilton can now enjoy the season-ending races in Brazil and Abu Dhabi in the knowledge that Silver Arrows partner Bottas is unable to deny him a fifth title in six years.
It also strengthens Hamilton's standing as the greatest British F1 driver of all-time having won three more titles now than legendary Scot Sir Jackie Stewart.
Hamilton's parents were there to watch their son's coronation, including father Anthony, the driving force behind Lewis' career - their relationship patched-up after a turbulent period.
The Stevenage-born racer performed his trademark doughnuts on the Circuit of the Americas track in celebration of a remarkable achievement by the British superstar. 
Surely this achievement makes him a BBC Sports Personality of the Year contender, an award he won five years ago after clinching his second world championship.
And once again, Hamilton has been head and shoulders above his F1 rivals this season - winning 10 times, six more than any other driver.
He was unable to add to his incredible tally of race wins that would have move him to within seven of equalling Schumacher's record of 91.
If he repeats his exploits next season, when his current £40million-a-year contract with Mercedes expires, then he has every chance of joining the legendary German at the top of the record books.
As has been the case all season, Hamilton displayed his fighting spirit as he attempted to mark his sixth crown with a race-winning performance.
Having started surprisingly down the grid in fifth, with Bottas on pole position, Hamilton had moved ahead of Ferrari pair Charles Leclerc and Sebastian Vettel by the end of the first lap.
Vettel, who was touted as a potential pre-season title contender but has endured misery this year, then saw his race over after just eight laps due to a suspension failure.
Hamilton spent much of the race behind Bottas and Red Bull's Max Verstappen but his Mercedes outfit opted for an alternative strategy in a bid to win this race.
While Bottas and Verstappen had pitted by lap 14 and were on a two-stop strategy, Hamilton went for a longer first stint in what appeared to be a move for a one-stop race.
Indeed, Hamilton's rivals ahead of him had pitted again by lap 36 to give the Brit the outright lead and put him on the brink of a stunning win.
Now, it was all about whether or not Hamilton could nurse his tyres home - as he did in stunning fashion last week in Mexico.
That Mexico City triumph was hailed as one of the Brit's finest after a superbly controlled drive in a tactical fight with Ferrari.
This time, it was a scrap with his Silver Arrows team-mate and he was ultimately pipped by the Finn with four laps to go.
Then Verstappen set about targeting second place but Hamilton, who had won on five of his last seven visits to America, held on for a Mercedes one-two.
But this wasn't about a team result - the Silver Arrows celebrated their sixth straight constructors' title in Japan two races ago.
This was about one man - the champion of the world.
