
# Rob Kardashian makes a rare appearance – and fans can’t get enough of how good he looks

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:06:38+00:00**

Author: **Bashiera Parker (@bparks_)**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/News/rob-kardashian-makes-a-rare-appearance-and-fans-cant-get-enough-of-how-good-he-looks-20191104)

Cape Town – Rob Kardashian stepped out over the weekend to attend Kendall Jenner’s birthday party – and fans can’t get enough of how good the most private Kardashian is looking.
Kendall turned 24, but hosted a big bash days before at Blind Dragon nightclub in West Hollywood, reports People. And in a photograph posted on Instagram by Kylie, though Rob’s wearing an oversized hoodie, he’s looking happy and healthy with a jawline sharp enough to make you swoon.
And fans did!
One user commented, "Oh my god, my man is back!" while another wrote, "Rob looks so good," complete with an in-love emoji.
"He looks amazing, this makes me so happy," said another user, while others added a flame emoji commenting, "Rob looking fya."

        SEE THE POST HERE:
      
According to E! News, Rob hasn’t been photographed, or rather, hasn’t posted a photo of himself, in more than a year. But before the party, he also shared a picture of himself next to mom, Kris Jenner, on Halloween. Again, he looks “fya” wearing apparel from his Halfway Dead streetwear line.

        SEE THAT PHOTO HERE:
      
Adorably, he dressed up as Papa Troll while Dream dressed as Poppy Troll.
(Photo: Greatstock/Splash)
