
# Blockchain and AI Have ‘Revolutionized’ War — India Defence Minister

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:49:00+00:00**

Author: **William Suberg**

Original: [Cointelegraph](https://cointelegraph.com/news/blockchain-and-ai-have-revolutionized-war-india-defence-minister)

India’s Defence Minister believes blockchain technology, artificial intelligence (AI) and big data will form part of the future of warfare.
As local daily news outlet Times of India reported on Nov. 4, Rajnath Singh highlighted the potential of blockchain, along with big data and AI, in defense operations. 
Speaking to a range of delegates from 80 countries in Delhi, Singh appeared under no illusion about India’s plans to access innovation as the global industry evolves. He explained:
India will hold its annual defense conference, DefExpo 2020, in February.
India has joined the list of countries taking a markedly different stance on blockchain compared to the phenomena it underpins, specifically cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin (BTC). 
As Cointelegraph reported, a ban on providing liquidity to exchanges has metamorphosed into a legal process that could see cryptocurrency outlawed altogether. 
The existing ban has already caused problems, with the police themselves unable to move crypto funds seized as part of law enforcement.
At the same time, blockchain continues to make its way into various facets of the economy. Last week, one Indian state confirmed it was working on dedicated policy updates for both blockchain and AI.
