
# Where to try martial arts in Dubai

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:43:00+00:00**

Author: **Luke Wilson**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/sport-wellbeing/sport/421332-where-to-try-martial-arts-in-dubai)

Bruce Lee, Chuck Norris, Ralph Macchio. Even if none of those names mean anything to you, please read on anyway.But should such martial arts movie stars quicken your hearts and make you want to bust out your best one-inch punch, ruthless roundhouse or knockout crane kick then maybe it’s time to get back into the dojo. And with Dubai Fitness Challenge well underway, now is a good a time as any to try something new. Here are the specialists who’ll teach you that ‘wax on, wax off’ doesn’t just apply to polishing your car at the weekend.Phoenix Black Belt AcademyWhite, yellow, orange, green, blue, brown. All lovely colours, but the only shade of round-the-waist accessory acclaim any self-respecting martial artist should be after is the black one. Phoenix might not guarantee you reaching the highest echelon of belt-wearing brilliance but what it does do is offer accomplished training in the full spectrum of disciplines. Judo, taekwondo, karate, kung fu, aikido, jiu jitsu, tai chi or kendo, whichever takes your fancy let Phoenix help you rise above your slovenly self and become a martial master.From Dhs1,200 (three-month membership). Timings vary. Alnoon Sports Centre, Al Quoz (050 203 5962).Royce Gracie Jiu Jitsu AcademyProbably the most medal-decorated fighting family Brazilian martial arts has ever known, the Gracie gang has grown into a global phenomenon. An absolute legend in his own right, Royce arguably put UFC on the map. And now he is passing on his expertise to we mere mortals in Dubai. So if you fancy giving it a go – you know where to head (Al Wasl Road, just in case). Teaching you superior technique and leverage, essentials of Brazilian jiu jitsu, the academy welcomes all-comers, regardless of ability or age. The website says you can be 89 and still take it up, so bring your great-grandad along for the free trial. Stick ’em, Pops.From Dhs399 (one-year membership). Timings vary. API 1000 Building, Al Wasl Road, Umm Al Sheif (04 331 4484).Shaolin Kung FuJust the name alone would pique any kung fu (or Wu-Tang Clan) fan’s interest. Putting its natty nomenclature aside, this place has been a pioneer of Chinese martial arts for a number of years, training the mind, body and spirit in both kung fu and tai chi. Master Hang presides over this hugely respected school and he’s a 7th Dan black belt in this ancient discipline so knows all about how to help you find the perfect horse stance before letting your fists of fury fly during your free trial class. And you don’t have to be a Ghostface Killah to impress him either.From Dhs1,400 (three-month package). Various locations including Icon Tower, Tecom (04 452 5599).Team Nogueira DubaiFounded by Brazilian brothers Antonio Rodrigo and Antonio Rogerio Nogueira, this multi-discipline martial arts school has produced some world-beating talent in its time. Once the training stable of legendary UFC middleweight champion Anderson Silva, you know you’re on to a winner when you sign up for TND. As you’d expect from siblings, this place has a family feel to it – you’re all brothers and sisters in arms (until you enter the ring, that is). The trainers will get you fighting fit in no time. Some sessions will be tough but no gain, no pain, Nogueira – right?Prices and timings vary. 4th Street, Al Quoz (04 338 8967).UFC GymWith global superstars such as Conor McGregor and Holly Holm on its books, UFC is the undisputed champion of MMA. But even that Notorious Dubliner and The Preacher’s Daughter once had to take baby steps into the octagon, so where better to do so yourself than at the Middle East’s first UFC-affiliated gym? Well versed in Brazilian jiu jitsu, muay Thai, kickboxing, wrestling and, of course, the melange that is MMA, the coaches here will pull no punches but will have you bobbing and weaving them like a pro well before you have to tap out.Free trial available. Prices and timings vary. Al Asayel Street, Business Bay & Murjan 6, JBR (800 832 496).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
