
# Graham Phillips Used 'Little Mermaid Live!' To Audition For The Movie

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:51:56+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/graham-phillips-used-little-mermaid-live-to-audition-for-the-movie-19301159)

After getting his sea legs as Prince Eric during The Little Mermaid Live! it seems like this Riverdale star is ready to make the leap to the big screen. During an interview with Entertainment Tonight ahead of ABC's live musical, Graham Phillips said he wants to play Prince Eric in the live-action The Little Mermaid movie. The actor — whose first breakthrough role was in the Broadway musical 13 alongside Ariana Grande — played Prince Eric for the live musical event on Nov. 5, and was hoping that his performance would win over the film's producers as well as Ariel.
"I'm sort of seeing this as my audition for the movie role," Phillips said with a laugh. "So, we'll see how this goes." According to ET, the actor also pretended to zip his lips when asked if he has been in talks for the role. Despite throwing his hat into the ring to play the highly-coveted role, Phillips noted that he wasn't "too nervous," thanks to his theater background. "I started out my career doing opera, Broadway and stuff, so it feels kinda like a homecoming," he said.
His one big concern: "The thing I'm most nervous about is his hair," Phillips admitted. "I mean, it's tough 'cause he's royalty, so he's got to have the coif. But he's also a sailor, he's the nautical prince, so it's a really tough balance to make." Based on the reaction to his performance on social media, it seems that both Phillips and his hair managed to make viewers everywhere swoon for his Prince Eric.
