
# What Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's Son Archie Is Like at 6 Months: 'He's Super Smart'

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:37:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29710465/meghan-markle-prince-harry-son-archie-6-months-report/?utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_source=twitter)

Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's son Archie is six months old today, and apparently, he's a very good and bright baby, Us Weekly was told by a source.
Archie is already showing a lot of promise, that source said. “He’s a strong baby and you can tell he’s super smart. He can sit up without support and roll over, and he’s almost crawling. He can’t talk yet, but he’s trying!”
Archie is also already a bit of a daddy's boy, the source added. “When Harry walks into the room, Archie gets so excited, he puts his arms out—his way of saying, ‘Pick me up!’ You can tell Archie’s going to be a social butterfly. He’s at his happiest when he’s around people.”
Archie is “such a happy baby” that he “rarely cries,” the source added. "He takes a keen interest in his surroundings and is already engaging and interacting with people. He loves to be entertained. And he isn’t a needy baby—he’ll happily go to Harry and Meghan’s friends without kicking up a fuss.”
Archie is also now sleeping through the night, which has really helped his parents Meghan and Harry and their own relationship. “There were times [in the beginning when] they’d bicker over the smallest things because they were so tired,” the source admitted. Now, "there’s less strain on the marriage. They can finally enjoy some ‘couple time’ in the evening."
