
# Why The Colts Will Score More Than The Other Guys - Steelers Edition

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:39:47+00:00**

Author: **jgerbig**

Original: [The Sports Daily](https://thesportsdaily.com/2019/11/03/why-the-colts-will-score-more-than-the-other-guys-steelers-edition-2/)

Who: The Indianapolis Colts vs the Pittsburgh Steelers.
What: Week 9 of the 2019 NFL season.
Where: Ketchup Field, Pittsburgh, PA.
When: 1 PM Eastern, Sunday, November 3rd. Daylight saving time goes into effect at 2 this morning, so everyone’s going to be griping about that. TV: CBS. Once again we get their #2 crew of Ian Eagle and Dan Fouts. Hopefully Rock Ya-Sin gives them something else to talk about this week. (He was penalized 4 times during that sentence).

        Why the Colts will score more than the other guys:
      

        1. Luck
      
No, no, no, not that guy. SMH. “To wait for luck is the same as waiting for death” – Japanese proverb. Kinda like reading this article.
I had something nifty all planned out for this space, then things just went all astray, and upside down and back and forth and all of that stuff.
At about 3 this morning (game day), I stopped off at the inconvenience store, my mind lost in thought over the events of the night. I parked on the side of the building, same as always, and as I rounded the corner I saw a disheveled looking man with a full beard, and wearing a disheveled looking Colts hoodie. I have no idea why he was sitting there, but as I passed him, we made eye contact and with a wink he held up a sign reading “I gave my heart to this team!” What a bizarre ending to a bizarre night.
Marlon Mack is going to run over these fools. Terrible Towels are stupid. And so are the people who wave them.

        2. Why do I even try
      
Jess is back this week and dropped a gem (?):
“Because unlike the other famous Rudolph, Mason’s nose isn’t a beacon of light, leading teams to eternal holiday glory.”
Alright, I have no clue what the hell she’s trying to say here, and neither do you. I’m just the messenger.

        3. Throwback Sunday
      
A throwback to the days when life was different
Whew.

        Colts 21, Steelers 17
      
 
 
 
 
 
