
# SatoshiLabs Unveils Improved Tool for Convenient Passwordless Logins

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:12:45+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Coinspeaker](https://www.coinspeaker.com/satoshilabs-unveils-improved-tool-for-convenient-passwordless-logins/)

We at SatoshiLabs continue addressing the needs of our end users by expanding to address the entire security environment, so that we can give people the tools they need to independently manage and protect their data. Now the Trezor environment includes better protection for convenient, secure logins.
At a time when over 8.5 billion accounts have been compromised for both companies and individuals alike worldwide, SatoshiLabs is taking steps to protect our users by combining the FIDO2 authentication standard with the Trezor Model T, bringing us all one step closer to a passwordless future.
Pavol “Stick” Rusnak, CTO of SatoshiLabs:
FIDO2 is an authentication standard that lets you log in to FIDO-compatible online sites and services without potentially exposing your credentials to malicious attack or an unsafe computer.
Using the Trezor Model T, the first FIDO2 token in the world with a touchscreen display, you’ll be able to conveniently and securely log in without typing in a username or password. Simply confirm the website that you’re signing in to on the screen of the Trezor Model T, and the login credentials stored in the Trezor device will never be exposed.
The authors of the FIDO2 standard designed it to be used with a hardware token with a display; Trezor Model T is the first and only FIDO2 hardware token in the world that lets you fully identify the authentication request before you approve it, by displaying both the service and the account you are logging in to on its Trusted Display.
We saw a gap in the security industry that was being exploited in order to steal billions of passwords, so we combined the secure Trezor environment with the most secure authentication standard to bring our users the perfect blend of security and user-friendliness.

        More information on FIDO2
      

        Full list of FIDO2 supported sites and services
      
