
# Microsoft Japan’s Four-Day Working Week Experiment Boosted Productivity By 40%

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:42:56+00:00**

Author: **Cameron Frew**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/news/microsoft-japans-four-day-working-week-experiment-boosted-productivity-by-40)


        Four days at work, three days off, full salary: Microsoft employees in Japan had a good summer. 
      
During August this year, Microsoft Japan tried out an experiment. Dubbed the Work-Life Choice Challenge Summer 2019, all 2,300 employees were given five Fridays off in a row without any decrease in pay.
As a result, the tech giant yielded some major benefits: electricity costs fell by 23%, but most importantly of all, productivity was boosted by a massive 40%.
Due to the longer weekend, 59% fewer pages of paper were printed during the trial. Meeting times were also cut from 60 minutes to 30, with online discussions being encouraged as an alternative to face-to-face; Microsoft Japan previously said in a blog post there was often no reason for meetings to run an hour.

        Microsoft Japan president and CEO Takuya Hirano said in a statement:
      
Unsurprisingly, the company’s workers were fans – the Work-Life Choice Challenge 2019 Summer experiment was popular with 92% of the staff it surveyed after the trial.
While the experiment was just a pilot project and there’s no indication whether they will adopt a four-day week, there are plans to implement another iteration of the challenge this winter.

        As reported by The Guardian, a Microsoft spokesman said:
      
This isn’t the first time a four-day week has proved to be a positive change. In 2018, New Zealand trust management company Perpetual Guardian held a similar trial.
The company found it sparked a 20% rise in employee productivity and a 45% increase in employee work-life balance. Last October, the company decided to permanently adopt the policy.
A 2017 survey suggested employees across a quarter of Japanese companies were working more than 80 hours overtime a month, often unpaid.
While a four-day week is a popular desire particularly among young people, a report commissioned by the Labour Party in September this year says it may not be ‘realistic’.
While the report, conducted by cross-bench peer Robert Skidelsky, agreed it would be ‘good for material and spiritual well-being’, the policy the party is considering would allegedly not be ‘realistic or even desirable’.
Who to believe – the report saying we should work more, or an experiment saying we should work less? Yeah, that’s a tricky one…

        Cameron Frew
      
After graduating from Glasgow Caledonian University with an NCTJ and BCTJ-accredited Multimedia Journalism degree, Cameron ventured into the world of print journalism at The National, while also working as a freelance film journalist on the side, becoming an accredited Rotten Tomatoes critic in the process. He’s now left his Scottish homelands and took up residence at UNILAD as a journalist.
