
# 5 things we noticed from Arsenal training as Unai Emery keeps an eye on Granit Xhaka

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:46:59+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/5-things-noticed-arsenal-training-20815917)

Arsenal captain Granit Xhaka was all smiles in training on Tuesday ahead of the Gunners' Europa League clash with Vitoria.
The Swiss has missed the Gunners' past two fixtures following a spat with the Arsenal fans, but could make a return for the group game in Portugal.
Arsenal were meant to play Vitoria on Thursday but the game has been pushed forward a day to accommodate Portuguese authorities and to minimise traffic.
Braga host Besiktas at the Municipal Stadium on Thursday, and by moving the Arsenal game it is hoped the two matches will pass without incident.
Ahead of the game Arsenal hit their London Colney training ground. Here's what we noticed.
It's been a tough couple of weeks for Xhaka.
During Arsenal's 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace he was booed off the pitch and reacted badly by cupping his ears, swearing at supporters and storming off down the tunnel.
Emery later revealed that his skipper was "devastated" by the incident, and he reportedly even had team-mates visit him at home to offer him comfort.
Xhaka kept his cards close to his chest in the following days, despite his manager suggesting he should apologise to the fans for his outburst.
But he later released a statement explaining what lead to the situation, and called for unity.
It seems - judging by Tuesday's training pictures - that Xhaka is doing his best to keep his chin up and move on from the unfortunate situation.
Emery appeared to keep a close eye on Xhaka during Tuesday's training session.
The midfielder looked to be back to his best, but the boss was certainly monitoring him, especially as he left him out against Wolves because he wasn't 'in the right frame of mind'.
Emery has a big decision to make now regarding his captain, and that's whether he allows him to keep the armband or not.
The captaincy is a bigger deal in the UK than it is on the continent - which is why Emery let his players vote for who they thought deserved it - and the current situation is one that needs to be worked out soon.
Does Emery let Xhaka keep the armband and risk further isolating a section of fans already on his back, or does he take it off him and risk losing the dressing room?
As aforesaid, Emery left Xhaka out against Wolves because his focus was elsewhere.
But it seems the dust has settled enough now for the Arsenal boss to consider returning him to the first team set-up.
And this Wednesday's Europa League clash appears to be the perfect time to re-introduce Xhaka to the Arsenal fans.
Arsenal are on the road, and out of the country in a less-pressured game than away at high-flying Leicester City this weekend.
The match will pass under the radar - or at least more so than Saturday's fixture - and will therefore provide the perfect opportunity for Emery to break the ice by bringing Xhaka back.
Another man back in the first team, and seemingly delighted about it, is Mesut Ozil.
Before the Gunners' Carabao Cup clash with Liverpool the German World Cup winner had featured just twice in all competitions this season - despite not suffering an injury.
Worst of all was that fact that in these two fixtures he was hooked around the hour mark.
Ozil didn't get the chance to play the full game against Liverpool, but he was hands down Arsenal's best player on the night.
And his performance earned him a place in Arsenal's starting XI against Wolves. Whether he'll feature for a third consecutive match in Portugal this week is anyone's guess.
Emery is under pressure at Arsenal, there's no two words about it.
But he has been calling on his backroom staff to give him a helping hand, especially where communication is concerned.
Robin van Persie is among the pundits who have suggested Emery's poor English is making it difficult for players to understand his instructions.
There have also been reports that some of the younger players are gravitating towards assistant head coach Freddie Ljungberg for guidance.
It's not great news for Emery, but if he is struggling to get his point across then having his assistants assist him may just save him his job.
