
# Best Pre-Black Friday 2019 Deals On Furniture Essentials

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jenna Milliner-Waddell**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/06/best-pre-black-friday-2018-deals-on-furniture-essentials/)

Black Friday may be on the way, but you don’t have to wait until then to take advantage of some of the best furniture savings. Ahead of the holidays, your favorite furniture stores are slashing prices to help you get your home ready for all the entertaining that’s to come. From savings on sofas to fit every style, to a new, affordable dining table big enough for your family and feast, you can’t beat these sales — but it’s worth acting quick! The deals won’t last forever. 
Set up your dining room with class, thanks to the Charmond Dining Room Table. This table offers ornate elements like inlaid borders, rounded corners, a double pedestal base and more. It comes in a beautiful dark brown finish with glazed white highlights, seats up to eight people and should look great in any dining room. The table is currently available for $749, which is an impressive $350 off its normal price.
If you don’t quite want to spend that much cash on a dining room table, or want something a little more modern-looking, the Dellbeck Dining Room Extension Table may be the way to go. This table boasts an inlaid veneer table top, with two extension leaves to ensure that you’ll have enough space when entertaining. It also seats up to eight people and is available for $399, which is $200 off its normal price.
If you’re looking for classy-looking furniture that will nicely compliment your beautiful dining room table, then it’s worth checking out the Rokane Dining Room Chair. Available in a set of two, these chairs offer a stunning light brown textured fabric, with comfortable cushioned seats and natural wood grain legs. Normally $110 for a set of two chairs, the set is now available for $93.50.
For something a little more modern, it’s worth checking out the Mestler Dining Room Chair, which boasts a solid wood build with a classy-looking open X back. The finishes on the chair help make it look antique, and as a result, it should look great in any home. Normally $100, a set of two chairs is currently available for $95.

        Sun & Pine Sturdy Wooden Dining Bench Wood/Dark Oak
      
Modernize your traditional dining room with a bench seat. Swapping out at least one side of seating for this bench is the perfectly imperfect balance your room needs. The bench seats two to three people so you can still accommodate the same number of guests. The oak wood finish has a rustic touch that can easily be paired with other wood finishes or even upholstered seating options. To make it a little cozier, a faux fur throw draped over the top of the bench will warm it right up. Originally $285, now on sale for $256.49.

        
          Shop Now
        
      

        Simpli Home
         Malden Bentwood Dining Chair
      
Switch out your seating before the holiday season to these mid-century modern chairs. Both the base and the back of this chair are curved to your comfort. From the outside, the wood finish on the chair can pair with a matching table, while the grey upholstered seat creates comfort and an accent color to carry throughout the space. The dramatic slanted legs allow this chair to make a statement at the head of the table. Originally $147.34, now on sale for $125.24.

        
          Shop Now
        
      

        Opalhouse Cuprina Rattan Dining Chair Light Brown
      
Go super trendy with this throwback that’s back in style. These rattan dining chairs have a classic feel with all the modern flair you’ll need to keep them around for years to come. Showcase the intricate design of the chairs by pairing it with a simple or even glass dining table. The light wood finish makes it perfect for an informal kitchen with boho style. If you want to make it more formal, these rattan chairs will pop in a dark room with a warm color palette full of earth tones. A faux fur seat cushion can’t hurt either. Originally $140, now on sale for $119.

        
          Shop Now
        
      
A great L-shaped couch can make any corner useful, and the Kexlor Sofa Chaise is no exception to that rule. The sofa comes in a beautiful smoky gray color, and it’s made with a suede herringbone fabric. The sofa works in any corner too, thanks to the fact that the ottoman and reversible cushion can be used on either the right or the left. It’s currently available for $595, which is over $100 off its normal price.
Last but not least is the Larkinhurst Sofa, which will add a classy touch to any living room. Thanks to its weathered leather look and comfortable feel, the sofa is sure to be a crowd-pleaser during any get-together. It comes with a sturdy corner-blocked frame, cushions with supportive pocketed coils and more. Like the Keslor Sofa, this sofa normally comes at $700 but is currently available for $595.

        West Elm Modern Chesterfield Sofa
      
This sofa is just the right mix of modern and traditional. The long length and the button-tufted design will easily make this choice the center of your conversation area — complete with a simple accent chair and plush rug. This is a made-to-order item and is available in grey, red and teal velvet options. Having your choice of colorway makes this custom sofa the perfect option for someone looking for just the right piece. While this sofa is great for a formal living room don’t be afraid to settle into this seat. The deep cushions are dying to be turned into a reading nook.  Originally $1,899, now on sale for $1,519.20.

        
          Shop Now
        
      

        West Elm 
        Brooklyn Down-Filled Leather Sofa
      
If you’ve ever wanted a classic leather sofa, now is the time to try and buy. In a living room playroom or den, this leather sofa delivers. Its clean lines, sleek design and boomerang legs give it a mix of traditional and modern vibes. The sharp angles of the frame give it an edge while the plush down-filled cushions are all about comfort. It can be customized and finished in either licorice, cigar, mocha or oxblood colored charm leather from Italy, so the sofa of your dreams is just a click away. Originally $2,599, now on sale for $2,079.20.

        
          Shop Now
        
      
