
# Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max can now react based on your proximity

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:44:01+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/nest-hub-and-nest-hub-max-can-now-react-based-your-proximity?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Google's ultrasonic sensing feature has just begun rolling out to the Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max. With this new feature, it will allow the Nest-branded smart displays to dynamically change what appears on screen as you get closer or further away from the device.
For example, when setting a timer, the smart displays will now be able to show controls when you are close enough to reach them. As you back away, the controls will disappear and the remaining time will get larger, making it easier to see at a distance. It can also do handy things like expand weather cards, show controls during media playback, and more based on your proximity to the device.

        Source: Android Central
      
For the Nest Hub Max, determining your distance from the display would be an easy task because of the built-in camera. However, the Nest Hub lacks a camera, which is why Google uses ultrasonic sensing that sends out high-frequency chirps and listens for feedback with the mics to detect when someone is nearby. It also means you can use this on the Nest Hub Max even if you disable the camera.
One downside to this is that since Google cannot determine who is nearby, it won't show personalized recommendations on the Nest Hub like it can when using face detection on the Nest Hub Max. One more thing worth noting is you won't have to worry about your pet's ears with the high-frequency noises. Google confirmed with Engadget "that even though the frequency used here is something dogs can hear, it's similar to typical noise in the home like that from a fridge."
A Google smart display with a camera
Google's latest smart display is anything but ordinary. It stands out from the crowd with an ambient EQ display, facial recognition, and hands-free gestures to control media playback.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Here we go! Amazon's big Black Friday sales on its hardware kick off November 22 If you were wondering when you would be able to get your hands on Amazon's devices for less during Black Friday, the answer is here. The company will be staggering the deals with the first set of price drops taking place on November 22.
      

        App Defense Offense Google's App Defense Alliance teams up to fight malware on Android Google is sharing technology and creating a partnership of mobile endpoint security companies to identify and control the spread of malware
      

        Did You Hear That Nest Secure will soon be able to detect breaking windows Nest Secure's microphone will soon be able to do more than just take Assistant commands. Beginning in early November, Google will enable Glass break detection which will allow it to sound the alarm when a window breaks.
      

        Security just got fashionable Best accessories for your Blink security systems Being secure is always important, but what accessories are out there that further improves your security system? Thankfully, I have just the answers for you.
      
