
# Producer Gaston Pavlovich Discusses Why Netflix Gambled On ‘The Irishman’

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kristen Lopez**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kristenlopez/2019/11/01/producer-gaston-pavlovich-discusses-why-netflix-gambled-on-the-irishman/)

In talking to producer Gaston Pavlovich, producer on Martin Scorsese’s religious drama Silence and his upcoming Mob movie, The Irishman, it’s amazing to think about what a hard sell the movie is. The notion that a movie directed by Scorsese and starring two of his best leading men and Al Pacino would struggle for nearly a decade to see the light of day sounds unbelievable, and yet it happened. Pavlovich sat down to discuss working with Scorsese, why The Irishman turned off major studios, and rising through the ranks as a producer of color.
Gaston Pavlovich: I produced and financed Silence. I know in the press it always talks about Paramount; they distributed but my company, Fabrica de Cine, produced that film in Taiwan. Marty and I had more than a few minutes to take a break and one particular evening, which was very magical, we were at the suite having fantastic Taiwanese whiskey, nonchalantly having a good talk. He was emotional and told me how appreciative he was that we'd done Silence, which was his passion project for so many years. I'll never forget, he said, "I'm very appreciative and whichever project I do next I would invite you to produce." He spoke of a few projects he had on-hand. He had a Sinatra project which sounded fantastic and he then he said, "I have Robert De Niro's Irishman which is also a possibility."
I appreciated the discussion, speaking with him about cinema for so many hours, [especially] Mexican cinema. Extraordinary conversation. And when we were doing post-production on Silence, perhaps a year after that conversation, I got a call from him saying he made a decision and it was The Irishman. He was inviting me [and] I was greatly surprised he remembered. He said something very interesting. "I want you to produce, but the main guy in this film is Bob De Niro. It's more his project so you actually have to convince him. But you got my vote." He set me up with a dinner with Robert De Niro at his restaurant in Tribeca. It was one of those great conversations with Robert. It was very personal, just like my first conversation with Scorsese; "Who are you? Where do you come from? What do you think about cinema? What do you think about this project?" A little bit of "who's your family? What do you guys do?" Very personal, which I liked. The next day I got a text message from Marty saying, "Bob enjoyed the evening and he said let's go with Gaston."
The new obstacle was it was in development hell with Paramount, so we had to go inside and get it. With De Niro's and Marty's intervention I sat down with then-President Brad Gray and his legal team and production people. We started discussing how to get Irishman out of there and into an independent production company which was mine, Fabrica de Cine. Through Paramount it was a big deal, a huge process getting it out of Paramount. Took a lot of negotiation and a lot of good phone calls from De Niro and Scorsese to make it happen.
Finally, they turned it over to me and two to three weeks after I had the rights from Paramount we went to Cannes and at Cannes we decided to do foreign sales; Netflix wasn't even in the horizon at the moment. All I had was Bob De Niro's contract signed and the rights. I didn't even have Marty's contract signed, we were still negotiating. But that was enough for the distributors and the buyers of the world to realize that The Irishman might come true after so many years. It was always out there. The Irishman was almost like a myth. At that moment it became a reality because we had, I was told, the highest bid ever on an independent film in the history of Cannes. We had a bid of $50 million on it. I came back to the United States with that and proceeded to negotiate Scorsese's contract and Pacino's contract, and redefine the budget because there was a real low budget that Paramount had. 
The most logical one was a matter of timing. Marty was doing Wolf of Wall Street, De Niro was busy with his projects. Marty really wanted to do Silence. He pretty much told everyone in his world, what we called "Marty World," [that] "everybody make an effort for me. Time is running out. We need to do Silence." So everybody took a break and Silence, by the time it started pre-production and the whole process, that was another 3-4 years. That's hard to do with these guys because they're constantly working so it's not easy to find the same space.
The second issue...I, myself, talked to every single studio, major and mini-majors; I went through every single one of them and asked who wanted to co-produce and co-finance it with me. Everybody said, "I'll distribute. I'll do foreign with you. But I won't invest in it and I won't produce it." They're big boys and they do their homework. It didn't seem to them that a film, and let me be respectful about this, about a bunch of old men, an epoch film, would work anymore. These dramas were not in the eyes of the audience anymore. Everybody was looking for something different. I've made a few dramas myself, my last one was The Professor and the Madman and we had a hard time with that. Dramas, especially epoch dramas, are very difficult nowadays. The audience is not shooting for that. They just didn't think it was going to work out financially for anybody and the timing was off. It was a huge task when I was on it producing this and trying to make it work.
The most important aspect was the man never changed. Marty Scorsese's the same complete gentleman. An absolute, complete gentleman. Very respectful at all moments, even when we had tense moments. For example, when we were discussing the length of Silence. That was a long movie and that's less than Irishman. Even so, the respect was always there. He showed me the same respect throughout the process of Irishman, even though The Irishman had more people involved. I had a lot more discussions, conversations with Marty on Silence than I ever did on Irishman because of that.
We had the De Niro world involved; we had the Pacino world involved; eventually we had the Netflix world involved. There's a whole world around Martin Scorsese, agents, managers, lawyers, producers who work diligently with Marty in a good way. Dealing with Marty Scorsese [you] appreciate the way he works. He's a craftsman, an old-style craftsman. The way he focuses on details, the way he looks around and asks for intelligent opinions with his team. Him and Thelma [Schoonmaker], in the editing room, is the most awesome thing I've ever seen in my professional life. It was fantastic! In The Irishman there were more people involved but anytime he sat down for anything related it was always with true respect, old-style.
That's one of the reasons no distributor or major studio would take it. However, I think people around the world are appreciative that traditional, real-style cinema is alive thanks to somebody like Marty Scorsese and Netflix. When I turned the film over and I started discussions with Scott Stuber from Netflix; once we decided that was the best path to take I, personally, told him "you gotta have an extra amount of cash ready to go because not being an independent film anymore it's not going to be a bonded film." I bonded Silence, for example, and I was going to bond Irishman. Scott said, "We're ready for that."
I also told them, "You must realize this could be a long film." I didn't realize it was going to be the whole 3 and a half. Again, Scott Stuber embraced it and Netflix embraced it. They said, "That's what we're looking for. We're looking for a masterpiece." If you would take this out to the movie theaters there has to be a different structure of financing going on that doesn't exist anymore to make it really work in that format for the present-day audiences of the world. Fortunately you have a Marty Scorsese, a creative director, and you have Netflix who's willing to take that business model and still give us, the world audience, the opportunity to see that kind of craft, that kind of film. I hope it never dies. 
In Silence it was complete. It was Emma Koskoff [producer], Marty and my little team, two guys working with me in Taiwan and we were dealing with the day-to-day. We were on our own, period; nobody wanted to do that film. We were on our own and did everything to get Silence done, and I think we did. It wasn't a box-office success but I'm proud of what we did and I know Silence will live on. There are still people constantly letting me know how special it was, and is, and will be throughout cinema history.
Irishman we were on there day-to-day until we turned it over to Netflix. Until I signed that last document transferring everything the day-to-day operations were between Netflix, Emma, and Jane [Rosenthal, producer]. That was the main team doing the day-to-day operations on the ground. I was supporting them as much as possible throughout the process. Now my day-to-day is dealing with Netflix on promotional issues, getting it out to the market, distributing it in Mexico; we're bringing it down to Cabo San Lucas for a Latin American premiere. Bob De Niro's coming with Jane and Rodrigo Prieto, the DP.
The big chunk of work with me was how to transfer Irishman to Netflix in a process that we had already gone out to the world to have bids for foreign sales, and we had to restructure the business plan and the financial models to try to make it work, and there were a lot of contracts and agreements I had already dealt with and signed. The whole process of transferring was, in itself, a good task, a huge task. But once Netflix got that they were on their own and ran with it. I was there to support whatever I could.
That's a good question because I've always seen it and now the numbers show it. Film in the world, what we traditionally call foreign film, has grown exponentially. Hollywood has taken note that, box office-wise, international is higher than the U.S. When I started my first films ten years ago it was 50% of the income of the entire world was United States and 50% was the rest of the world. Nowadays it's up to 70% and the United States is less. It doesn't mean less people are going to see movies in the United States but people are seeing more kinds of films, not just U.S. films; films from all over the world which generate a lot of talent.
You saw at the Academy Awards three of the last four years were Mexican directors winning for Best Director. Film is universal and should be. It's a representation of what's going on in our generation throughout the entire world. Back in the old days, Mexican cinema in the black and white days, Italian cinema, Moroccan cinema, Japanese cinema, Kurosawa. Marty Scorsese speaks fantastically about the history of cinema throughout the world. It's beautiful to see that it's happening again. I can honestly tell you every step I've taken in Hollywood, with every film I've made, whether it's Scorsese or Mel Gibson or any of the guys I've worked with, never treated me different for being Mexican. I always felt on par. I've never felt different. That's what's happening with different people from all kinds of diverse environments coming into the movie world and that's what should happen. That's a reflection of what film is and what it can tell us in the universal stories we're now telling throughout the world.
In three spaces: in the theater, in the theater, and in the cinema. I've seen it on a smaller screen and I've seen it on big screens. It's just such a big difference. I do understand how the majority of people feel about watching it at home and that's why Netflix is who they are now. But I'm a believer in the cinema and I'll be until everybody tells me nobody wants to go to the movie theater anymore. I'm a believer in cinema and that's why I appreciate someone like Scott Stuber so much because they are looking at the big screen. They are looking at 'how can we take our films to the big screen?' People deserve to see these kinds of films on a big screen. I just hope that many of us can still continue that effort in making sure that that experience continues for a long time.
Even though I'm from Mexico I appreciate those good, old-styled films from the U.S. To me, It's a Wonderful Life is one of the best films I've ever seen and is still close to my heart. Harvey is also one of those. Like many millions of Americans who saw Harvey it stays there in your heart. In my years after Silence, in my dealings with STX, they told me they were dealing with Harvey and I quickly said, "I remember that film. What are you doing?" They said, "We want to do a remake." I jumped on the opportunity but I realized they actually didn't have the rights and someone else did. I reached out to the family estate of the original rights owner, convinced them and bought out the rights to do a remake. Scott Stuber again stepped in and loved the idea.
We're developing the film together with Scott Stuber's team and myself and my team. We're on the fourth or fifth draft. We hired the guys who did the Shrek franchise because we want it to be a family-oriented, feel-good movie but with good adult humor. We have not gone out to cast, [though] we do have ideas on who we might want to direct or cast. We're 80% there with the script and once we're there we'll get rolling. I'm excited; we're going to do a contemporary version of Elwood, who is Jimmy Stewart, and we're going to do something special related to modern times. As soon as we're done with Irishman I'm excited to start talking about casting everything. Because it's been announced already we're getting some great phone calls from major A-listers who really want to be involved with Harvey because it's so special for the American market. 

        The Irishman is in theaters now
      
