
# Unai Emery issues defiant response to rumours Jose Mourinho could replace him as Arsenal boss

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:41:17+00:00**

Author: **Alex Milne**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/unai-emery-issues-defiant-response-20827759)

Arsenal manager Unai Emery batted away speculation linking Jose Mourinho with his job after his side's disappointing 1-1 draw with Vitoria in the Europa League.
The Gunners blew the chance to confirm qualification for the knockout stages of the competition when they conceded an injury time equaliser after Shkodran Mustafi had given them the lead.
The result means Arsenal have won just one of their last six games in all competitions, and some reports have claimed ex-Manchester United and Chelsea boss Mourinho is keen to take over at the Emirates should Emery leave.
Responding to a question about whether he was worried about being replaced by the controversial Portuguese manager, however, Emery simply said: "I am the coach."
Arsenal are still in a strong position to qualify from Group F in the Europa League, and will do so if Standard Liege lose to Eintracht Frankfurt on Thursday.
Emery insisted his team were still confident of coming top of the group despite losing their 100% record.
He added: "In this competition, our objective is to be first in the group. We are going to play the next two matches to make sure we’re in that position. Now we’re going to prepare for a new competition.
“We worked, we played, fighting against a team with strong organisation. When we did the most difficult, score one goal, they drew at the end.
"It’s a little disappointing for that result. We’re first in the group, we want to make sure of that position in the next matches.
"Our objective this evening was to have a clean sheet. We need to improve defensively and be strong in that moment.
“We are using each match to achieve that. We didn’t achieve that against Vitoria Guimaraes."
Arsenal now face a tricky-looking trip to Leicester in the Premier League on Saturday as they try to continue putting pressure on the top four.
