
# Lorraine Kelly 'lost herself' during menopause until her husband begged her to get help

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:34:36+00:00**

Author: **Verity Sulway, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/verity-sulway/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/lorraine-kelly-lost-herself-during-20791633)

Lorraine Kelly has revealed she had a traumatic time going through the menopause, and didn't even realise it was the cause of how she was feeling.
She admitted: "I thought I was going crazy", and it wasn't until her husband Steve Smith begged her to seek help.
The presenter, 59, said: "I just felt completely flat, I had no joy in my life at all."
She spoke about her experience when she appeared on Loose Women on Friday, after her own show was cancelled due to the Rugby World Cup.
She said that the change hit her while she was on holiday in Spain with Steve.
"It was horrible, and it crept up on me and all of a sudden, I remember vividly", she explained.
"I was sitting with Steve and we were away in Spain and it was lovely, beautiful weather and all gorgeous and I just felt completely flat, I had no joy in my life at all.
'"Of course I’m so lucky, I have a fantastic husband, great job, all of that and it was just horrific."
Lorraine had no idea it was the menopause, and instead she confessed "I thought I was going crazy".
"I couldn't understand it at all. I lost myself", she added.
Steve told her "you have to go and get help" and so she did, and was prescribed HRT medication to help her feel better.
"It took a couple of weeks but gradually I felt like myself", she said.
Lorraine lifted the lid on her long-rumoured feud with former daytime TV colleague turned Conservative MP Esther McVey - and insists her rival was "never promoted".
She found herself at the centre of a Twitter storm in June this year when a clip of her appearing to snub the politician during a live link went viral.
It happened when Good Morning Britain hosts Piers Morgan and Susanna Reid went live to Lorraine in her studio for their usual handover, and asked what she had coming up in her show.
Susanna then asked if Lorraine remembered Esther - who had just been interviewed on GMB - from their shared GMTV days in the late 1990s.
A curt Lorraine told the camera: "Yep. Yes I do. Right, coming up after half past eight..."
Esther, who at that point was still in the Conservative leadership race, later addressed the awkward moment, implying Lorraine had been jealous when she got promoted.
"We used to share a dressing room," she told reporters, "And she used to be on the programme afterwards, and obviously she used to be partnered with Eamonn Holmes. And then I was promoted to be partnering with Eamonn Holmes.
"But she's great and it was a great show, and I can't believe it was 20 years ago, but never mind, it was really good at the time, really good fun."
