
# Lorde Shares How Her Dog’s Death Will Affect New Album Plans

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:26:44+00:00**

Author: **Peter Helman**

Original: [Stereogum](https://www.stereogum.com/2063721/lorde-shares-how-her-dogs-death-will-affect-new-album-plans/news/)

We haven’t heard much from Lorde since she wrapped up her tour in support of 2017’s Melodrama. But now she’s offered a rare update to her newsletter subscribers in a heartfelt note about the status of her third album and how it has been affected by the recent death of her beloved dog Pearl, whom she adopted in 2018.
“Pearl had two cardiac arrests about an hour apart, and after the second one, he died,” Lorde writes. “I was holding him when he went, and I know he knew that I was there. But this loss has been indescribably painful, and a light that was turned on for me has gone out.”
Although Lorde has been “working away on the new songs for most of this year in New Zealand,” she says that “the bright energy I was trying to communicate to you has gone, for now” since Pearl died last month. “He was instrumental to the discovery that was taking place. I felt he led me towards the ideas. And it’s going to take some time and recalibration, now that there’s no shepherd ahead of me, to see what the work is going to be.”
“I’m asking for your patience, as 2020 comes around and you start to wonder where the next record is,” she continues. “I have lost my boy, and I need some time to see the good again, to finish making this for you. It won’t be the same work — as anyone who has felt loss can understand, there’s a door that opens that you step through, and everything is different on the other side. But when this great loss crystallises inside me, and my chest rebuilds around it, hopefully I’ll be able to finish up, and share it with you, and we’ll all grow together, as we always do.”
Read Lorde’s full letter to her fans below.
