
# Dates announced for Middle East Film and Comic Con 2020

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:41:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/gaming-tech/421779-dates-announced-for-middle-east-film-and-comic-con-2020)

Start thinking about what’s your favourite superhero to dress up as (shout out to Iron Man, anyone?), as dates for the Middle East Film and Comic Con (MEFCC) have been revealed.
The 2020 edition is set to make a grand return from Thursday March 5 until Saturday March 7 at Dubai World Trade Centre.
Not sure what MEFCC is? It’s one of the biggest pop culture celebrations in the Middle East, filled with everything from the latest blockbuster movies to the rarest of comic book selections.
Let’s not forget about the celebrities it brings. MEFCC 2018 saw huge stars drop by for Q&As and panel talks, including Shazam!, the star of DC’s latest movie Zachary Levi, Mike Colter, AKA Netflix’s Luke Cage, Katie Cassidy (aka Black Canary from Arrow) and plenty of esteemed comic artists from Marvel and DC.
MEFCC has yet to reveal details on when to get tickets and all the celebrities that are coming this year, so watch this site for more info.
We still have Christmas to get through before all the games, superheroes and stars come next year, and there’s plenty of festive fun to be has in the meantime.

        For more gaming news, click here.
        
        Thu Mar 5-Sat Mar 7, 2020. Dubai World Trade Centre, www.mefcc.com.
      
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
