
# New Samsung Leak Highlights Powerful Galaxy S11 Upgrade

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ewan Spence**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ewanspence/2019/11/06/samsung-galaxy-s11-periscope-camera-new-leak-rumor-codename/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Samsung is expected to launch the Galaxy S11 in mid-February 2020. That means the design will be locked in, production schedules set, and testing of the handset will be under way - as witnessed by the browser showing up in online benchmarking tools. Now we have more details about the camera to expect in the flagship phone.
With smartphone cameras one of the key areas that consumers look for when purchasing a new phone, the Galaxy S11 family is expected to make significant strides over the current cameras, as SamMobile highlights:
“The Galaxy S11, which is codenamed ‘Picasso’, is expected to have a 5x zoom camera that uses a ‘periscope system’ that allows the camera module to sit flush with the body of the smartphone because the sensor and lenses are arranged sideways and utilize the principle of reflecting light in a telescope. Samsung has been mass producing such a camera sensor since early this year, and multiple reports in the last couple of months have said that the sensor will first be used in the Galaxy S11.”
The latest details come from Dutch website Galaxy Club, who have picked up on the internal codename Samsung’s cutting edge camera. Already expected to feature a periscope arrangement of lenses and mirrors to allow for increased optical zoom, the unit is going by the code name of ‘Hubble’, which draws the obvious connection to the masterful space-based telescope that can see to the edge of the universe.
For a camera that looks to be boasting a 5x optical zoom, that seems rather appropriate.
Let’s hope that the Galaxy S11 doesn’t follow Hubble too closely - the Space Telescope was launched with an incorrectly polished mirror, requiring a service mission from the Space Shuttle to attach some digital spectacles to allow better focusing.
