
# Crackdown on Currys PC World after customers are given false information on warranties

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:52:57+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/crackdown-currys-pc-world-after-20817177)

Currys PC World has been told to clean up its act over its extended warranties that could be leaving customers out of pocket.
It comes after mystery shoppers found around a quarter of staff could not provide accurate information on extended warranties - including whether cosmetic damage was covered as part of the terms and conditions.
Extended warranties offer people the chance to pay for increased protection when buying products, over and above the standard guarantee.
Under the Competition and Markets Authority’s terms, all electrical retailers selling extended warranties are required to provide accurate information to their customers so they can make informed decisions about whether the extra cover is worth buying.
As part of these terms, Currys PC World arranged for mystery shops to take place at 100 of its stores - which uncovered some major concerns.
For example, customers were told products would be replaced if they were damaged but still worked, when this was not the case.
The CMA has since been working with Currys to improve the way it sells this type of warranty.
The retailer is now making several changes, including introducing extra training for staff; and posters and leaflets around its shops will be clearer in explaining what is and isn't covered.
Currys will also implement a new monthly mystery shopping programme to make sure its staff abide by the rules.
“Customers tell us they value the benefits of our Repair and Support Plan, and our colleagues are trained to help them make an informed decision about whether the plan is right for them," A Dixons Carphone spokesperson said.
"We have been actively engaging with the CMA to ensure that the sales process in our stores consistently meets the required standard. As the CMA highlights in its letter to us, we have already taken a number of steps to address their recommendations, and we agree with the CMA’s comment that these actions should lead to benefits for our customers .”
As well as ensuring retailers sell extended warranties fairly, the CMA has today published a guide on what people should consider before taking out an extended warranty.
It's warned that:
If you think you have been mis-sold an extended warranty, your first point of call should be to make a complaint.
You can also contact the Citizens Advice , Consumer Advice Scot and Northern Ireland Consumerline for additional help.
Speaking on the crackdown, Adam French, Which? consumer rights expert, said: "This is a welcome move and we look forward to seeing Currys PC World swiftly implementing these changes to ensure customers are armed with the correct information when making a decision about extended warranties.
"We would also urge customers to read the terms and conditions before buying an extended warranty as their right to return, repair or replace an item may already be covered under the Consumer Rights Act."
