
# Woody Harrelson says he was ‘mentored’ by Mike Pence, used

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jessica Chasmar**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/6/woody-harrelson-says-he-was-mentored-by-mike-pence/)

Actor Woody Harrelson on Tuesday elaborated on his past friendship with Vice President Mike Pence, saying he used to be “quite religious” and that the former Indiana governor used to mentor him on Bible-related matters.
During an interview on comedian Marc Maron’s podcast, Mr. Harrelson recalled how he attended Hanover College in Indiana at the same time as Mr. Pence in the early 1980s and how he sought Mr. Pence’s guidance on a sermon he was set to deliver at the school.
“I did a sermon when I was 17, and then I did another one at Hanover College,” he said, Yahoo reported. “In fact, this is kind of bizarre but Mike Pence was two years older at the same school, at Hanover, and he was the guy who kinda mentored me through it.”
The “Zombieland” star described Mr. Pence as the person you went to for help on the subject. He also talked about a grueling dinner he had in 2002 with now-President Trump, Melania Trump and then-Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura.
“You realize how a second can be fast or a second can feel like forever,” he recalled. “[Mr. Trump] just wants to talk about himself and he does continuously.”
Mr. Harrelson has talked about his 2002 dinner with the Trumps and his relationship to Mr. Pence in the past. In August, he told Esquire that Mr. Trump completely hijacked the conversation during the dinner and gave everyone else at the table very little chance to speak.
“It got so bad I had to go outside and burn one before returning to the monologue monopoly,” the actor said. “Listen, I came up through Hollywood, so I’ve seen narcissists. This guy was beyond.”
During the same interview, Mr. Harrelson said he remembered Mr. Pence as “nice” and “sincere.”
“He struck me as a nice guy, very sincere,” he said. “I don’t know how well we’d get along now, but we got along OK then.”

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
