
# Top things to do in Ras Al Khaimah

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:16:00+00:00**

Author: **Emma Pearson**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/travel/405174-top-things-to-do-in-ras-al-khaimah)

Driving time: 1hr 20mins (113km).Ras Al Khaimah’s charm lies in its mellow ambience. A casual stroll along part of the 64km of white-sand coast followed by dinner overlooking Al Hamra Marina is an idyllic way to relax after making the drive up here, before you start on all of the adrenaline-inducing stuff that Ras Al Khaimah has by the absolute bucket-load.Things to doLongest zip lineWorld’s tallest building? Check. World’s tallest hotel? Tick that one off. World’s fastest roller coaster? Yes, that’s sorted. What else have you got, UAE? Well, how about the world’s longest zip line? That’s not a problem, either. Jebel Jais Flight is 2.83km-long (the same length as 28 football pitches) and can accommodate 400 people per day flying down the line at speeds of up to 150kph from 1,680m above sea level and during the summer it's half price. For the next few months prices for the zipline start from Dhs341.25, down from Dhs650. Bargain.Dhs341.25. Jebel Jais, Ras Al Khaimah, www.toroverdeuae.com.Explore a deserted townIf the hustle and bustle of daily life gets a bit much, then there is a place you are guaranteed plenty of peace and quiet. The abandoned pearling village of Jazirat Al Hamra in Ras Al Khaimah has remained almost unchanged since its inhabitants left in 1968, making it a permanent monument to a bygone era. Populated constantly from the 16th century until just 40 years ago, forts, schools, mosques and many other buildings still stand in the area. While it is completely empty, the vilage’s atmospheric, almost end-of-the-world quality ensures its gets its fair share of visits from intrigued tourists. It even has a celebrity friend in the form of Brad Pitt, who flew down by helicopter to film scenes for War Machine, which was released on Netflix in 2017.Between Al Hamra Village and Al Jazeera Port in Ras Al Khaimah.Dhayah FortHead up here day or night for a view out across RAK that will take your breath away. The fort dates back to the 16th century when it was built in a strategic hilltop position facing the gulf. There’s 234 steps to the top, but persevere and you’ll be rewarded.Al Rams (056 334 3464).Coming soon…Check out an adventure siteThis is great news for outdoorsy types and thrill-seekers in the UAE - a huge series of new obstacle courses and activities is launching in Ras Al Khaimah. The adventure emirate is already home to the world’s longest zip-line, as well as loads of incredible outdoor experiences along Jebel Jais. The Jebel Jais Zipline Tour will feature seven different ziplines spanning a distance of more than 5km. Whizzing over cliff edges, ravines and wadis, you’ll hit an average speed of 60kph on runs spanning between 337m and 1km in length. You’ll traverse sky bridges (including one that’s 300m above the ground and 1,250m above sea level). If you’re familiar with the area, you’ll know it’s home to some spectacular views of the UAE’s largest, and tallest, mountain range from new perspectives.  Tickets for the zipline tour start from Dhs295 per person (on Sundays, Wednesdays and Thursdays), and Dhs345 (on Fridays and Saturdays). By the end of the year a 35-obstacle aerial assault course – the Bull Maze – will open, too. The maze will be split over three levels within a 20-metre-tall structure that’s designed to get adventurers facing their fears and pushing their limits.  Finally, arriving in early 2020 is a 23m, bungee jump set 1,500m above sea level.Zipline Tour: Dhs295 (Sun, Wed, Thu), Dhs345 (Fri-Sat). Jebel Jais, Ras Al Khaimah, www.jebeljais.ae.
