
# Bigg Boss doesn’t evict Siddharth Shukla after unprecedented protest by fans, Tehseen Poonawalla fights with Asim Riaz

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:42:09+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/bigg-boss-doesnt-evict-siddharth-shukla-after-unprecedented-protest-by-fans-tehseen-poonawalla-fights-with-asim-riaz/271622/)

Faced with unprecedented protests by fans, Colors TV’s reality show Bigg Boss on Wednesday night changed its mind and did not evict actor Siddharth Shukla. On Wednesday night, Bigg Boss said that it was only nominating Siddharth for the next two weeks.
The reality show on Monday night had broadcast a promo stating that it was evicting Siddharth because of violence. However, that promo had evoked angry reactions from Siddharth’s fans, who took to social media to even threaten to boycott the popular TV show.
The change in Bigg Boss‘ stance was evident on Tuesday night when it did not repeat the promo announcing Siddharth’s eviction. Aside from Siddharth being nominated for the next two weeks, Shehnaaz Gill was also nominated for eviction for the next one week. This was because she refused to assemble in the living area for a special announcement.
Siddharth accepted his punishment for two weeks of nomination, but he did not appear convinced about Bigg Boss’ decision.
Mahira was seen launching a full-blown tirade on Wednesday night as she hurled abuses at Siddharth Shukla. This left many including her friend Paras Chhabra shocked. Realising the filthy nature of her abuses, Bigg Boss was forced to beep her out on multiple occasions.
Mahira has faced criticism from Siddharth’s fans for constantly provoking her rivals using obscene gestures and abusive language. For example, she was seen showing her shoe to Siddharth, who was hailed for showing incredible patience in the face of extreme provocation.
 
 
