
# Police say woman found dead in home was killed by her Great Danes

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:37:36+00:00**

Author: **Zachary Halaschak**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/police-say-woman-found-dead-in-home-was-killed-by-her-great-danes)

An Ohio woman found dead in her home was likely attacked and killed by her two Great Danes, police say.
The body of Mary Matthews, 49, was discovered by her husband Mark Matthews on Friday in Clearcreek Township. Mary Matthews suffered multiple cuts and puncture wounds on the lower half of her body, according to CNN.
When police arrived at the scene, they found two “large but thin” Great Danes in an enclosed porch outside the house and blood-stained clothing throughout the couple’s home.
Mark Matthews told police that one of the dogs was “vicious” and had bitten him in the past. He also told officers “he was always able to fend off the dogs but if his wife was alone and they attacked, she would not have been able to defend herself because of her small stature.”
“I wanted to get rid of him, but she wouldn't,” he said. “She loves animals.”
Mark Matthews had been in the county jail since Wednesday and was away when the attack occurred.
According to the police report, Mary Matthews suffered from chronic alcoholism and was also taking a number of prescription medications. The substance use may have damaged her ability to respond to the attacks, as there was evidence that she had attempted to clean her wounds with towels and had changed clothing.
“Due to this history, it is felt that [Mary Matthews] may not have been in a clear-minded state to judge the severity of her situation and thus failed to call for help,” the police report said.
Police believe that Mary Matthews was able to move the dogs outside before she died from her injuries.
The two Great Danes were euthanized after the attack.
