
# The Best Stocking Stuffers For Men

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Barry Samaha**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/barrysamaha/2019/11/01/gift-guide-2019-the-best-stocking-stuffers-for-men/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2827632232&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

There’s nothing quite like the joy and satisfaction that comes from delivering the perfect gift to friends and loved ones during the holiday season. Along with getting the grand present that is often too large to fit under the tree, don’t forget about stocking stuffers. Whether they are are hung by the chimney with care or at the end of bed with utter indifference, it’s better to go the extra mile and get a little something-something to make the holiday even more festive. In fact, use this opportunity to fill those stockings with gifts that he can use all year round.  
Check out the best, most practical stocking stuffers. 
If a great pair of Brunello Cucinelli brogues, Gucci sliders or leather loafers from Zegna is on his list for the holidays, take care of them with this foam shoe cleaner by Jason Markk. Not only will it get ample use and preserve the condition of his shoe (leather has a way of losing its luster unless treated), it will also highlight the sleek gift you gave him.  

        SHOP NOW
      
The rate at which new iPhones and other devices enter the market is constant, if dizzying. Luckily, the shape of charging cables seem to have remained the same—at least for the time being. And should a new iPhone 11 await him, this item by Native Union will make a great addition. Indeed, you can never have too many. 

        SHOP NOW
      
A guy doesn’t have to be a parent to be a daddy. And if this is your guy’s nickname—or if he is in fact your father—these slippers by ISlide will definitely speak to him. They’ll also let everyone else know about your relationship should he pack them on the upcoming trip to some exotic beach vacation.

        SHOP NOW
      
Like a charging cable, portable chargers have become essential throughout the day. Though, more often than not, they are bulky and not so easy to carry around. Bucking that trend is Plusus. The brand has created an option that is so sleek and compact that it can easily fit into his wallet. Also, with this battery always on him, he can no longer feign having missed a message because of a dead phone. 

        SHOP NOW
      
Uncapping bottles of Peroni, Blue Moon or Bell’s Brewery will be all the more enjoyable with this opener by W&P Design. And should you have a six-pack (or more) chilling in the fridge come for the holidays, this trinket will certainly come in handy. Essentially, it is the type of gift that you stuff in someone else’s stocking, but one that you really use yourself. 

        SHOP NOW
      
Wearing glasses is cool. They add dimension to the face, and, to be sure, make anyone look smarter. But what’s even cooler is having a pair of optical lenses that isn’t falling apart. Enter this cleaning and repair kit by Bey-Berk. It is a great stocking stuffer for your four-eyed friends. 

        SHOP NOW
      
Finding the perfect gift is a serious endeavor, but sometimes it can all be fun and games—in this case, literally. Created by Gentlemen’s Hardware, this set includes dice and playing cards. It will (hopefully) encourage him to put down that phone, and partake in one or two rounds of Canasta or Go Fish. 

        SHOP NOW
      
