
# Top customer service at PatchouliMint Spa Ltd.

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Stettler Independent](https://www.stettlerindependent.com/news/top-customer-service-at-patchoulimint-spa-ltd/)

By Jessica Jones
For the Independent
PatchouliMint Spa Ltd. in Stettler has been honoured with the 2019 Customer Service Award, being nominated for creating a supportive and helpful environment at the spa.
PatchouliMint Spa Owner Julie Mack says that the whole team is “honoured and thankful” about the recognition.
“I cannot accept this award alone by any means; it’s all six of us who got that award,” Mack said of her staff and co-workers.
“The girls I have here are awesome, as well as our clients and customers,” she added.
PatchouliMint Spa Ltd., located in the upstairs of 5004 – 50th Ave., started two years ago and has a large clientele base. Mack has been a massage therapist for the past 14 years, with a cohort of employees who have between eight to 10 years of experience.
“As an owner, I feel very lucky to have the people I have working with me,” she said. “We, as a whole group, all deserve this award, each and every one of us.”
PatchouliMint Spa Ltd. is a full day spa with an array of services, such as manicures, artificial nails, pedicures, massages, facials, body waxing and eyebrow microblading, just to name a few.
“The award means a lot because we want to make people happy and want to provide services that make them feel comfortable and welcome,” she said.
“It means a lot that we are being recognized for our attitude here and that people are noticing it.”
When asked how she came up with the name for her business, Mack says she actually got the idea from her daughter who was 12-years-old at the time. Patchouli-Mint is an essential oil blend, which was in a hand cream favoured by Mack.
“So she said, ‘You should name it that’,” Mack said acknowledging her daughter’s suggestion.
Mack says that they are looking to expand in the future, possibly finding a location on a lower level on Main Street.
“We want to be bigger and offer more services,” she said, further thanking the community for its support.
