
# Hamilton Town House panto Aladdin will have BSL signed performance

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:05:19+00:00**

Author: **Robert Mitchell, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/robert-mitchell/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/hamilton-town-house-panto-aladdin-20810720)

All of the panto staged in South Lanarkshire Leisure and Culture venues will include a BSL signed performance.
Interpreters will be stage side for Aladdin in Hamilton and Rutherglen, as well as for Jackie and the Baked Bean Stock in Lanark and East Kilbride.
Specific seating areas have been set aside to ensure the best view and experience for anyone who is deaf or hearing impaired at the following performances:
■ Aladdin, The Town House, Hamilton, on Saturday, December 7, at 5.30pm
■ Jackie and the Baked Bean Stock, Lanark Memorial Hall, on Sunday, December 8, at 2.30pm
■ Aladdin. Rutherglen Town Hall, on Wednesday, December 18, at 7pm
■ Jackie and the Baked Bean Stock, East Kilbride Village Theatre, Thursday, December 19, at 7pm
Councillor Peter Craig, chair of SLLC, said: “Our aim in all of the work we do is to ensure equality of opportunity and the chance for all of our residents to make use of, and enjoy, our facilities and events.
“Providing a signed panto performance in each of our venues is something we have been working towards and I am delighted that we are able to unveil the news in time for this year’s festive season.
“I hope that as many people as possible are able to take up this opportunity, and that it is, in fact, an added advantage we are able to roll out across our cultural timetables throughout the year.”
Janis McDonald, chief officer of deafscotland, added: “We support this move to increased accessibility for BSL users, their families and friends and we will encourage people to attend.
“We appreciate the effort made to ensure inclusion for people who are too often marginalised and excluded from family entertainment and other cultural opportunities on offer in communities across Scotland.”
Tickets can be booked online by registering for an online account at www.sllcboxoffice.co.uk, then emailing the number of BSL specific seats needed. The team will confirm availability and set up a link to pay online. Each of the venues also sells tickets face to face or over the phone.
