
# Salzburg chief provides Erling Braut Haaland transfer update amid Man Utd rumours

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:37:44+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/salzburg-chief-provides-erling-braut-20802419)

RB Salzburg are yet to receive an offer from Manchester United, or any other club, for highly rated striker Erling Braut Haaland - according to the club's sporting director.
Teenager Haaland has earned the attention of United, Real Madrid , Juventus and a whole host of other of Europe's biggest sides following an eye-catching start to the season.
Haaland, the son of former Manchester City ace Alf-Inge, has netted six goals in three matches in the Champions League to go alongside 12 strikes, and six assists, in 11 league appearances.
The 19-year-old has therefore been heavily mentioned on the rumour mill, with reports Juve are set to offer £35million or other claims that United are heading the queue for a swoop.
But Salzburg chief Christoph Freund has publicaly insisted that despite expecting bids in the future, nothing has been tabled so far.
“So much nonsense is written in the last few weeks. What I’ve already read makes me laugh,” Freund said.
“I have not spoken to any club so far. I can also say there’s currently no offer for the winter [transfer]. The next step will come, because Erling will be unstoppable.”
Haaland was born in Leeds which has made his desire to play in the Premier League stronger - and make United a strong possibility of signing him.
Haaland said recently: "I want to be the best. I have dreamed of playing for the best clubs in the world my whole life, and I especially like English football."
He has also worked with Ole Gunnar Solskjaer previously at Molde, with the United boss handing him his debut.
Haaland told TV2: "He has had a huge impact on my life, both as a person and as a trainer.
"He won the Champions League and was an incredibly good player. He has taught me a lot."
