
# Karanataka has 10 days to recruit teachers

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kumaran P**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/karanataka-has-10-days-to-recruit-teachers/articleshow/71844227.cms)

UGC asks state to fill up over 1,242 faculty and 310 principal posts The University Grants Commission (UGC) has set November 10 as the deadline for filling up vacant faculty positions in colleges and universities in Karnataka. With the deadline fast approaching, the Karanataka government is under a lot of pressure. Over 1,242 faculty and 310 principal posts are vacant across colleges and universities in Karnataka. The state Higher Education Department said that it will conduct direct recruitment shortly. The UGC has been reminding the state government over the last year to fill up all teaching posts. Earlier, it had said that August 10 would be the last date to complete the recruitment process. Rajnish Jain, secretary of UGC said, “As shortage of quality teaching faculty in higher education institutions is a major concern and requires to be addressed immediately for improving the quality of education, the institutions are once again requested to take serious steps to ensure that the vacant positions in universities as well as colleges affiliated to the university are filled at the earliest and the status of the recruitment process is uploaded on the university activity.” It has also said that it will take action in case of non-adherence to the deadline. In the month of June, the statutory body had issued guidelines for recruitment of faculty in universities and colleges and asked the state government to follow the same. Interestingly, in June, the state government prepared their guidelines. The government said that the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) will carry out the recruitment process. Registrars to be changed Sources from the department also said that there is a notification which is going to come out and which will replace all the current registrar (administration and Evaluation) with bureaucrats. Sources said, “A notification is being readied where all the registrars in administration and the evaluation section will be replaced with bureaucrats like KAS officers. It is going to come out soon.”
