
# UFC 244 Odds And Prop Bets You Won’t Believe

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/02/ufc-244-odds-and-prop-bets-you-wont-believe/)

Sports fans will bet on almost anything, and that concept will be on full display Saturday night in New York at Madison Square Garden. UFC 244 is a mega event which features Nate Diaz taking on Jorge Masvidal in a highly anticipated match.The excitement around UFC 244 is proof the promotion doesn’t need to have a title on the line in the main event of a pay-per-view to generate interest.
According to ListenFirst, a social media listening and analytics firm, the Top-5 UFC-related videos on the promotion’s YouTube and Facebook pages generated 6.5 million views this week. All of those videos were related to UFC 244 in some way.
Any time there is this much interest in a sporting event, you can be sure there will be traditional and prop bets available. Prop bets can be pretty outrageous for major events, but when the chief participants are colorful characters like Diaz and Masvidal, the possible side wagers are even more over the top.
Take a look at three of the more amusing ones, per BetOnline.

        If Donald Trump is Shown or Announced Will the Fans Boo?
      
President Trump is scheduled to be in New York at MSG for the event. Trump and UFC President Dana White have been friends for years, and the former has had several connections with combat sports throughout his years of prominence.
Trump is one of the most polarizing people on Earth, so it’s likely he’ll generate an emotional response of some kind from the fans in the building.

        Number of Times Diaz Says F-word
      
Diaz is known for his foul mouth, rebellious persona, brilliant Jiu-Jitsu and boxing. Win or lose, Diaz is liable to drop a few F-bombs. I think everyone would be shocked if he kept it completely clean, especially on a pay-per-view.
The only question is how many times will let Diaz let the F-word fly?

        Will Diaz Give the Middle Finger?
      
Few fighters have a signature hand signal. Even fewer of them are as notorious for flipping everyone the bird. If you’re looking to get in on the action with one of these bets, I’d probably say consider wagering a few bucks on Diaz not pushing up his middle finger.
If Masvidal beats him clean, perhaps via TKO or KO, Diaz may not be feeling quite as defiant as normal. He’s only been stopped once, but Masvidal is the favorite in this matchup. If you believe Masvidal wins, and even more specifically by stoppage, you might want to bet on Diaz keeping his middle finger down.
