
# Trump’s ‘Virtually Impenetrable’ Border Wall Is Actually Really Easy To Cut

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:58:08+00:00**

Author: **Emily Brown**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/news/trumps-virtually-impenetrable-border-wall-is-actually-really-easy-to-cut/)


        Donald Trump has spent a long time bragging about his ‘virtually impenetrable’ border wall, but it turns out it’s not that difficult to conquer as it got bested by a $100 saw. 
      
The wall was one of the most controversial parts about Trump’s presidential campaign, as he vowed to build the physical border between the US and Mexico to prevent immigrants entering North America illegally.
The POTUS had high hopes for the success of his wall, and even asked to fortify it with a ‘water-filled trench stocked with snakes or alligators’ to ensure it served its purpose.

        Speaking on his campaign trial, Trump declared:
      
Unfortunately for the over-confident president, however, it’s been proved time and again the wall can be overcome.
According to the Washington Post, US agents and officials have revealed smuggling gangs in Mexico have repeatedly sawed through new sections of Trump’s border wall in recent months, opening gaps large enough for people and drug to pass through – immediately rendering Trump’s whole wall idea pointless.
The people behind the damage didn’t need any particularly technical or industrial-sized equipment to defeat the structure, either. They reportedly used a popular cordless household tool known as a reciprocating saw, which is available at shops for as little as $100.
When fitted with specialised blades, the saws can slice through one of the barrier’s steel-and-concrete bollards in minutes. Once a bollard has been cut, smugglers can push the steel out of the way to create an adult-size gap.
If nobody builds wall better than Trump, and the border wall has been bested by a $100 saw, then the president must build a pretty poor wall. Just saying.
