
# Katie Price says dating toyboys is like training dogs

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:10:02+00:00**

Author: **Louise Randell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/louise-randell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/katie-price-says-dating-toyboys-20791150)

Katie Price has declared that dating toyboys is like training dogs in a bizarre new video.
The former glamour girl, 41, is known for dating younger men, and is currently enagaged to personal trainer Kris Boyson, who is 11 years her junior.
She also had a fling with another younger man, Charles Drury, 22, this year.
Katie has now opened up about her love life in a video posted on her Instagram , showing her training her dog blade using a tennis ball.
In the clip, she's seen ordering the pooch to sit closer to her and stay before throwing the ball for him to fetch.
She captioned it: "The perfect representation of me dating."
 
Katie's private life has been pretty dramatic this year as she split from on/off boyfriend Kris in August after she was caught cheating on him.
She was pictured in Turkey with another toyboy, Charles, and she ended up dumping Kris by text.
However, the break-up didn't last long and they have since rekindle their rocky romance.
 
She's had previous relationships with toyboys too and even married one of the.
Her third husband Kieran Hayler, who she split from last year, is 32, while former fiance Leandro Penna is 34.
However, Katie previously dated older men - her first husband Peter Andre is five years older than her at 46.
Second husband Alex Reid was also older at 44.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at  webcelebs@trinitymirror.com  or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
