
# Temperature in Karachi may drop to 20 degrees Celsius

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:53:44+00:00**

Author: **​ Our Correspondent**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2094961/1-temperature-karachi-may-drop-20-degrees-celsius/)

KARACHI: The Pakistan Meteorological Department (PMD) has forecast that temperature in Karachi will drop to 20 degrees Celsius over the next two days and cold winds will blow in the city, under the effect of a western weather system that has also caused rainfall in the northern areas of Pakistan.
According to Chief Meteorologist Sardar Sarfaraz, the lowest temperature ever recorded in Karachi during the month of November is 16 degrees Celsius, and the expected cold spell is not likely to break this record. Over the past few days, a minimum temperature recorded in the city ranges between 23 degrees Celsius and 24 degrees Celsius, he said.
Speaking with regards to Cyclone Maha, the chief meteorologist said that it has weakened and was located at a distance of 555 kilometres (km) from Karachi on Wednesday morning. It is expected to hit the gulf of Mumbai near Indian Gujarat, he added.
According to PMD, the weather is expected to remain dry today (Thursday) and the temperature is expected to fall to 20 degrees Celcius to 22 degrees Celsius. Whereas the minimum temperature recorded yesterday (Wednesday) was 24 degrees Celsius, in the morning, and the highest temperature was recorded at 35 degrees Celsius. Visibility, too, decreased yesterday morning from 6km to 4km, due to fog, while southwestern and northwestern winds continued to blow in the city all day long, at a speed of 20 kilometre per hour.

        Published in The Express Tribune, November 7th, 2019.
      
