
# Go Big With A 75 TCL 4-Series 4K Roku TV For Less Than $700

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:30:50+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/tcl-4k-roku-tv-deals-cheap-price-sale.html)

Need a large TV? How does 75-inches suit you? How about for less than $700?
Right now you can pick up the 75-inch TCL 4-Series TV for just $699 from Best Buy.
This is a big discount on a large TV. For example, Best Buy says it's $200 off – stating it was sold for $899 before. However, TCL itself is listing the same TV with a $999 price tag.
Advertisement
What's more, Amazon did drop down to the same price although it appears Amazon has already sold out. The $700 price appears to be the cheapest price Amazon has ever sold this TV at.
So, yes, this is a very good price, on a very good and large TV.
Besides the more screen to look at, this TV comes with Roku built-in. That matters, as Roku TVs are a great way to instantly migrate over to a streaming way of life.
Advertisement
Over the past couple of years, Roku has risen in prominence and is now one of the major players in the streaming platform market. In no small part, thanks to the availability of great TVs at rock bottom prices, like this one.
Another major benefit of having Roku on this TV is the ease of access to The Roku Channel.
With The Roku channel, you can watch a number of TV shows and movies for free.
Advertisement
Besides the more screen, Roku, and free content available through The Roku Channel, this is a 4K TV with HDR10 support. Adding to that is a 120Hz CMI effective refresh rate along with upscaling technology. The latter look to improve the view on non-4K content by upscaling it to 4K.
If audio matters, then things aren't too bad here either. This TCL 4-Series TV comes with a total audio output of 20-watts. Basically, 10-watts per channel.
Overall, for the price you're paying here, you are getting a whole lot of TV. Yes, TCL does have better lines available, such as the 6-Series and the 8-Series. However, both of those lines are more expensive.
Advertisement
For example, the 6-Series is cheaper than the 8-Series and right now you'd be looking at double the price of this TV for a 75-inch 6-Series TV.
At this price, it's worth supersizing up.

        75-inch TCL Roku TV - $699 - Best Buy
      
Advertisement
