
# Match Going Premier League Fans Will Spend £1.3BN to Support Their Club This Season, Up 31% Since 2014/15

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:46:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Coinspeaker](https://www.coinspeaker.com/match-going-premier-league-fans-will-spend-1-3bn-to-support-their-club-this-season-up-31-since-2014-15/)

Premier League match-going fans will have to shell out £1.3 billion this season to follow their teams – as increases in the price of home tickets, TV subscriptions and merchandise hit their wallets.
The eToro Fan Financial Statement, research carried out by multi-asset investment platform eToro in association with KPMG Football Benchmark, provides a comprehensive study into the financial commitment UK football fans make to support their Premier League clubs and which clubs offer the best value.
As one of the biggest sponsors of the Premier League, eToro have been promoting their crypto offering through their six club partnerships this season. Currently, they are running promotions on match day LED boards and media backdrops, helping raise awareness of cryptoassets to a global audience.
Key findings of the report include:
The report explores spending by match-going football fans over the past five Premier League seasons, incorporating car and rail travel, merchandise, tickets, in-stadium food and drinks and TV subscriptions.
Sky Sports Pundit and Manchester United legend, Gary Neville said,
Premier League match-going football fans are forecasted to spend an estimated £1.3billion over the course of this season, a figure that has risen by 31% since 2014/15. Inflation, as indicated by the UK Consumer Price Index, rose by 8.4% over this period.
To better understand the real cost of fandom, the eToro Fan Financial Statement analysed the spend of football’s most faithful supporters. The research focuses on the ‘dedicated fan’ – an adult fan who attends all 19 home games & travels to at least 5 away games. Dedicated fans will on average spend £1,888 this season. This equates to 8% of the average UK take home salary according to the Office of National Statistics.
While ticket prices make up a significant proportion of this total cost, the overall cost of tickets for a ‘dedicated fan’ has risen only 1% since 2014/15. This demonstrates the positive impact of the Premier League wide cap on away ticket prices. It also reflects efforts by clubs to support dedicated fans including season ticket price freezes.
The biggest cost increases per match-going fan are TV subscriptions (40%), merchandise (21%), home tickets (14%) and food and beverage (11%). The price of a pie has risen 17% since 2014/15. At Chelsea a pie will now cost you £4.60, compared to £3 at Burnley. In the 2019/20 season dedicated fans are expected to spend over £23.8 million on replica shirts, a 32% increase in total spend since season 2014/5.
Andrea Sartori, Global Head of Sport at KPMG said,
Arsenal are the most expensive team to support with dedicated fans each paying £2,238 per season. However, that cost has risen by just 2.4%, the least of any current Premier League club since 2014/15. Newcastle United are the only club outside of the traditional “top 6” to feature in the 6 most expensive clubs to follow.
This is largely due to the increase in season ticket and food and beverage prices, leading to a forecasted 4.1% increase in spend year-on-year and a 16.7% increase since 2014. Travel also plays a part. It should come as no surprise that this season Newcastle United fans will travel 68% more miles by train and 65% more miles by car to away matches, than the average Premier League fan.
Every club has a different offer when it comes to serving fans. The eToro Fan Financial Statement looked at whether some fans get better value for money than others by examining the total spend by dedicated fans last season in relation to the amount of goals scored and points won.
This approach reveals that whilst dedicated Liverpool fans may spend more versus other fans in the Premier League, they saw good ‘value for money’ based on a low cost per goals scored and points won, last season. Of all the clubs, Manchester City fans got the most entertainment for their money paying £16.90 per goal and £16.30 per point.
This was helped by having 12% less overall spend than the Premier League average and their top of the table finish. Huddersfield Town fans got the worst deal overall, spending £70 per goal and £96 per point a situation not helped by their bottom of the table finish and subsequent relegation.
Gary Neville continued:
Iqbal V. Gandham, UK Managing Director at eToro concludes:
Note on KPMG methodology – data cited throughout this release is based on a profile titled ‘’the dedicated match-going football fan”. Data supporting this profile is based upon avid supporters who attend all home matches (as season ticket holders) and travel to approximately five away games each season. With regards to travel behaviours, they are twice as likely to opt for train instead of car.
All data and analysis has been provided by KPMG’s Football Benchmark team. When referring to ‘average fans’, these are fans who attend, on average, six to seven home games, accounting for casual ticket purchases and more committed season ticket holders alike. This is a theoretical profile aiming to capture the behaviour of all fans as an average.
At the start of the football season, eToro announced its sponsorship of six Premier League teams including Aston Villa, Crystal Palace, Everton, Leicester City, Southampton and Tottenham Hotspur. eToro was founded in 2007 with the vision of opening up global markets so that everyone can trade and invest in a simple and transparent way.
The eToro platform enables people to invest in the assets they want, from stocks and commodities to crypto-assets. We are a global community of more than eleven million registered users who share their investment strategies; and anyone can follow the approaches of those who have been the most successful. Due to the simplicity of the platform users can easily buy, hold and sell assets, monitor their portfolio in real time, and transact whenever they want.
Providing an in-depth and interactive analysis of hundreds of Europe’s top professional football clubs, www.footballbenchmark.com is the latest initiative offered to the global football industry from KPMG. The digital platform democratises and consolidates financial and operational performance data to assist the critical decision making of those associated to the global football industry.
In addition to the wealth of information and knowledge shared on the platform, KPMG’s dedicated Football Benchmark team deliver services to those operating, investing and governing the world of football, these services include Valuation and transaction support, Operational evaluation and restructuring, Feasibility & Business planning, Bidding assistance and economic impact assessment, Governance & organisational structure, as well as Audit & Tax.
