
# Argentina’s Bonds: Good Luck Figuring This One Out

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kenneth Rapoza**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kenrapoza/2019/11/07/argentinas-bonds-good-luck-figuring-this-one-out/)

Mauricio Macri is out. Cristina Kirchner is back, playing second fiddle as vice president to Alberto Fernandez, and investors are still holding Argentina bonds rather than running for dear life.“I love Argentina, actually,” says Timothy Barrett, CIO of the Texas Tech University System endowment. “We’re deeply in Argentina.”
Wait. What?
Argentina’s central bank has roughly $10 billion to its name and its government owes the International Monetary Fund around $22 billion in 2022 and another $22 billion in 2023. Even if the IMF cut that in half to $11 billion in 2022 it is still $1 billion more than the government has in reserves. And that doesn’t count the billions it owes this year and next in both local currency and foreign, dollar denominated debt.
“I’d hold Argentina for now,” says Rebecca Braeu, head of international research and strategies for Nationwide Investments. The two were speaking on different panel discussions during this year’s two day Greenwich Economic Forum in Connecticut.
Argentina, when mentioned at the Forum, which concluded on Wednesday, didn’t get nary a diss by anyone on stage.
Fernandez’s election last month has yet to be followed with hints on how he will pay the IMF, let alone local lenders this year. The condition is fluid and may continue to be so for some time as investors seem very willing to bet that Fernandez will not be like Cristina, whom he once served as chief of staff.
His transition team is working with President Mauricio Macri’s economic team to ensure a smooth handover.
“Our view is that the incoming Fernandez Administration wants to steer clear of a market-unfriendly default to avoid massive political and economic upheaval,” says Jan Dehn, head of research for the Ashmore Group in London. A maturity extension on the IMF debt in particular could see bond prices double from current levels in the 40s.
This is the gamble. It’s a big one.
Argentina is not a growth story. Fernandez’s central bank has lots of room to cut interest rates, but inflation is so high at around 50% that even if the central bank went to real rates of 0%, inflation would eat up everything.
Fernandez is still prioritizing politics over the economic agenda. His first trip abroad was to Mexico, a country they have almost no business with at all, while he and his vice president lead supporters in chants of “Free Lula” – the incarcerated ex-president of Brazil arrested for his role in the massive Petrobras contract rigging schemes that nearly bankrupted Brazil’s most important company.
Brazil president Jair Bolsonaro will not attend Fernandez’s inaugural next month, marking a low point in Brazil-Argentina relations. Brazil is Argentina’s most important trading partner.
“It doesn’t inspire confidence for effective crisis management on the reactive approach and suboptimal economic team that shows lack of awareness of the severity of the economic crisis and no credible plan,” says Siobhan Morden, head of Latin America fixed income at Amherst Pierpont Securities. “If there is no obvious growth model and no commitment for fiscal reform then the burden may shift to bondholders for debt relief.”
Translation: huge haircut off bonds that are already priced at steep discounts of around 60% off of par value.
Recovery value on bonds are priced at 35-40 assuming a 50% haircut on debt and a five year maturity extension with 10% yield. Investors buying now have the risk of not being paid. Investors who bought a year ago will see a capital gains loss in Argentina; far from an anomaly.
The data to watch going forward won’t just be the dwindling forex reserves at the central bank, reserves that most government bond investors use to gauge whether a country can service its debts, but on the monthly inflation data and on leading indicators on this pathetic economy.
Inflation pressures will complicate economic policy and widen tensions between recession-fatigued voters who put Fernandez in power because they wanted a safety valve, and default-fatigued bondholders that want their money back.
Argentina needs money too.
The gross financing needs reaffirms the importance of the Fernandez/Kirchner government to renegotiate with the IMF, a body that easily over half of their supporters despise. They need to restructure the high repayment schedule of the IMF package and need the $12 billion remaining from that package.
The IMF loan to Argentina is $56 billion, a record-breaker for Argentina and the IMF.
Morden thinks debt negotiations will become increasingly tense on the “blame tactics” from the Fernandez administration. Capital controls and dual exchange rate systems with the rebirth of the “mercado azul” probably crosses the proverbial “red line” with IMF financial orthodoxy. That could further complicate discussions on economic policy to save Argentina, for the umpteenth time.
The economy is largely dollarized, especially in Buenos Aires, where people make their living in government, real estate, export finance, or the travel and tourism industry. The peso economy is the land of Peronist-Kirchner make believe.
The latest central bank data on a cash basis show a $14.6 billion capital account deficit in August and $6.7 billion capital account deficit in September.
The only reason why Argentina’s balance of payments has shifted into surplus, a positive on paper any way, is because the dual peso market and capital controls that greatly restrict the selling of pesos have become even more restrictive since Fernandez was elected. The positive, therefore, is largely fake. But if Fernandez and the IMF break bread and all goes well, he may be able to provide new bond buyers some relief. It’ll be short lived. At the end of the day, he is in charge now and it will be up to his team to find out a way to pay those bills without reducing public employment payrolls and subsidies.
If Ashmore and Texas Tech are right to be bullish on Argentina, it might be wise to get out as soon as news of a debt extension is made. Because $10 billion or $20 billion, Argentina doesn’t have it and who is going to lend to them under these circumstances for anything but the outrageous interest rates that bond investors loves and the Argentine electorate hates.
