
# Katie Price risked septicaemia from boob implant that was 'hanging out' of her

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:51:30+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/katie-price-risked-septicaemia-boob-20794146)

Katie Price has revealed that one of the highest points of her career was blighted by a terrifying health scare.
In 2015 Katie silenced her critics when she became the triumphant winner of Celebrity Big Brother over nemesis Katie Hopkins.
But speaking out in her YouTube channel, the Pricey has told how her redemption in the public eye was blighted by gruesome complications relating to one of her breast implants.
Katie said she was almost ejected from the Big Brother house the night before her win as doctors feared the worst.
The glamour model turned vlogger spoke to fans on YouTube about her memories of being in the Big Brother house when she made the revelation.
As she rewatched her exit interview with host Emma Willis, Katie said it took her back to how much pain she was in at the time.
"The night before that they wanted me out of the house - the doctors and that - because my implant was hanging out," said Katie cupping her left boob as she spoke.
"They had to check me every four to five hours because of my temperature. They said if my temperature went up I would have had to leave because I was going to get septicaemia in my blood.
"I was really, really poorly," she added.
Katie went on to say she'd been stunned to win the show because she felt she hadn't given producers that they wanted during her time in the house.
"They thought I'd be feisty and argumentative and I'm not that kind of person," she mused.
"Although if someone starts on me I won't take it. I'll stand up for myself," she confirmed.
Katie said she was proud of how she behaved on the show - and for beating rival Hopkins into second place.
"For once in my life I had dignity in that show. I kept myself together. I didn't show any boob or nothing. I was literally myself and wore tracksuits and was just myself."
Pointing at Hopkins, Katie said: "But it must have been hard work for her thinking everyday, 'What trouble can I cause next? Who can I argue with next?'
"That's not her. She's vile," said Katie.
Former Page 3 girl Katie underwent her ninth boob job in August this year, despite swearing off surgery.
She got her first implants at the age of 20 when she was breaking into modelling as a 32B cup size in 1998, followed just a year later with another op to take her from a 32C to a 32D.
After the breakdown of her marriages to Peter Andre and Alex Reid, in 2012 Katie inflated her boobs to their biggest size ever - a 32F.
