
# Pentagon Hopes to Use Anti-Ballistic Lasers to Strike Down Cruise Missiles

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:02:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/us/201911011077202906-pentagon-hopes-to-use-anti-ballistic-lasers-to-strike-down-cruise-missiles/)

“There’s great interest in … airborne capabilities for the counter-cruise missile [mission],” Kelly Hammett, director of directed energy work at the US Air Force Research Laboratory, said at the Association of Old Crows electronic warfare conference earlier this week. Navy officials also indicated that mounting lasers on their ships that are powerful enough to take out cruise missiles is one of the service’s main goals.
Rear Adm. Ron Boxall, who heads the surface warfare directorate for the Chief of Naval Operations, told Defense News this past May that “the key” for the Navy is the High Energy Laser and Integrated Optical-dazzler with Surveillance (HELIOS), a directed energy weapon with a 5-mile range that Boxall wants on a destroyer by 2021. With a present output of 60 kilowatts, the laser will hopefully be quickly boosted to at least 500 kilowatts.
Since 2017, the US Department of Defense has more than doubled funding for directed energy weapons, reaching $1.1 billion last year.
The Pentagon’s rush to equip its war machines with anti-missile lasers reflects the priorities of what it calls “near-peer rivals” - Russia and China - which have used missiles as their go-to tool for closing the gap with the US military. China’s People’s Liberation Army takes missiles so seriously it’s got a special branch of the military dedicated to them: the Rocket Force (PLARF).
The PLARF also sports an array of anti-ship missiles with ranges much longer than comparative weapons in the US arsenal.
Likewise, both Russia and China have pushed far ahead of the US in developing hypersonic missiles, which present the same problem as cruise missiles: they don’t follow parabolic arcs like ballistic missiles do; they fly through the atmosphere, sometimes close to the ground, and can maneuver.
In the late 2000s, Raytheon attempted to develop an anti-ballistic missile variant of the plane-launched AIM-120 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air-Missile (AMRAAM) in conjunction with the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), but that project, known as the Network Centric Airborne Defense Element (NCADE), fell by the wayside. In a 2017 report on missile defense, the Heritage Foundation think tank advised the MDA to “reinvigorate concepts” like the NCADE.
“If you sit at home plate and have 10 runners coming in simultaneously and you try to tag them all out, that’s not probably the winning solution,” Hammett said, according to Breaking Defense. “You want to get forward… with an airborne platform.”
“We need to understand those targets better,” Peterkin said, “because the advantage of a laser weapon is precision, and the disadvantage of a laser weapon is precision.” 
