
# ChainUP and BiKi.com Host Opening Event of Singapore Blockchain Week

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:34:15+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CCN.com](https://www.ccn.com/chainup-and-biki-com-host-opening-event-of-singapore-blockchain-week/)

7th November, 2019, Singapore, Singapore – Whitelabel exchange platform ChainUP and digital assets trading firm BiKi.com kick off Singapore Blockchain Week with the opening event on November 11th. The rest of the week will see premium industry events Blockshow Asia, Singapore Fintech Festival and CoinMarketCap: The Capital, taking place alongside a buffet of fringe events. The city-state will be welcoming a massive gathering of the global ecosystem of blockchain and crypto players – an assortment of projects, exchanges, investment institutions, influencers as well as the wider blockchain community. 
The Singapore Blockchain Week opening event will be held in downtown Singapore on the evening of Nov 11th. The event is initiated and hosted by ChainUP and BiKi.com in close collaboration with sponsors and partners Node Capital, Jinse Finance, HiCoin, HashFin, CoinTime, BlockChoice, NodePlus and TradingMaster. Co-organizer SMC Capital, a BiKi Partner Node from London, will also be coming on board, having previously partnered with BiKi for the high-profiled Bitcoinist-moderated event, Invest and Trade London.
At the Singapore Blockchain Week conference, the congregation of industry leaders and influencers will focus on analyzing the progress of blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies in 2019 and discuss the future developing trends as the industry moves into 2020.
Kickstarting the evening will be Ethan Ng, CEO of BiKi.com Southeast Asia who is  presenting a case study in how to fast-track an exchange to amass 1 million traders and USD 600 million in trading volume within a year. 
Delving for deeper insights, the rest of the panel of speakers include BiKi.com founder Winter, who has published a study titled “Crypto Exchange: the Financial Center of the Blockchain Era”; global market leader ChainUP’s CEO, Zhong Gengfa, who will deliver a keynote with forecasts on the new challenges and gameplays of 2020 for crypto exchanges; Du Jun, founder of Huobi and Node Capital, with investments in more than 200 blockchain projects; as well as key personnel from established organizations Neo Global Capital, Tembusu Ventures, Jubilee Capital, Du Capital, EOS VC, QCP Capital, Longhash Singapore and Dymon Asia. A turnout of over 300 attendees is expected for the evening, which will wrap up with a business networking reception. 
Consistently ranked as one of the world’s best places to do business, Singapore has been recognized as the leading fintech hub in Southeast Asia. The last couple of years has also witnessed massive growth in the number of businesses using disruptive technologies such as blockchain, and concurrently, cryptocurrencies, in the city. 
For more information on the event, please visit Opening Event of Singapore Blockchain Week.
ChainUP is one of the leading global blockchain technology solution providers. It owns eight well-developed product lines: digital assets trading, wallet, situational awareness, public chain and consortium blockchain, mining pool, blockchain cloud media, liquidity and broker. ChainUP has constructed an industrial closed-loop – from technology services to traffic and traffic commercialization. It has served more than 200 digital asset exchange customers and more than 50 digital wallet customers worldwide, covering more than 50 million users in over 20 countries from Asia, Europe, America and Oceania.
Headquartered in Singapore, BiKi.com is a global cryptocurrency exchange ranked Top 20 on CoinMarketCap. BiKi.com provides a digital assets platform for trading more than 150 cryptocurrencies and 250 trading pairs. BiKi.com is focused on providing the safest, most stable and most effective cryptocurrency trading platform. 100% of the transaction fees are used in buyback and burning of platform token, BIKI. Since its official opening in August 2018, BiKi.com is considered one of the fastest-growing cryptocurrency exchanges in the world with an accumulated 1.5 million registered users, 130,000 daily active users, over 2,000 community partners and 200,000 community members. BiKi.com has received investments from Huobi co-founder Du Jun, Genesis Capital Zhu Huai Yang, FBG Capital, ChainUP and others totaling approximately 10 million USD.

        Company Contact:
      
Chang Jie Lin, BiKi.com 
jielin@biKi.com

        Media Contact:
      
Cecilia Wong, yourPRstrategist 
cecilia@yourPRstrategist.com

        
          This is a paid-for submitted press release. CCN does not endorse, nor is responsible for any material included below and isn’t responsible for any damages or losses connected with any products or services mentioned in the press release. CCN urges readers to conduct their own research with due diligence into the company, product or service mentioned in the press release.
        
      
