
# UFC 244: Stephen Thompson vs. Vicente Luque Fight Prediction

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **ESPN＋ | Paid Program**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/espn/2019/11/02/ufc-244-stephen-thompson-vs-vicente-luque-fight-prediction/)


        This post was created in partnership with ESPN+. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
      
When it comes to UFC 244, which airs on Saturday, November 2 on ESPN+ pay-per-view from Madison Square Garden, the two co-main events, feature Jorge Masvidal taking on Nate Diaz, and Darren Till fighting Kelvin Gastelum, are certainly among the most anticipated fights of the year. But as you work your way down the card to the battle between Stephen Thompson and Vicente Luque, you quickly realize something big could be in the works before the main events begin.
The reason for that is simple: Stephen Thompson is a veteran with plenty of striking ability and strong hands that could jar Vicente Luque’s jaw. But then again, Luque’s own striking power and outstanding aggression could prove to be too much for Thompson.
Indeed, the battle between Thompson and Luque looks to be a decidedly strike-happy affair. On one side will be Thompson, who likes to keep a distance from his opponents and strike hard (and often) from outside their reach. On the other side is Luque, who will do his best to get inside and start hitting Thompson with lefts and rights to put him on his heels.
But when it’s all said and done, it’s hard to bet against Stephen Thompson.
Of course, that’s an argument many could take a stand against. After all, Thompson hasn’t looked strong in the last few years. He was knocked out by Anthony Pettis in the second round at Fight Night 148 in March, and lost in a decision to Darren Till last year at Fight Night 130. His last victory came byway of a decision win against Jorge Masvidal in November 2017, several months after he lost in a decision to Tyron Woodley.
Meanwhile, Luque has been on an upswing. He’s won both fights this year, with a knockout of Derrick Krantz at Fight Night 152 and a decision victory against Mike Perry at Fight Night 156. He also knocked out his two opponents last year — Chris Laprise and Jalin Turner.
So, what makes Thompson different? It might come down to a difference in styles. 
Luque has been successful by using his speed and aggression to target his opponents. Thompson has been effective by keeping a distance with his opponents and ensuring they can’t overcome his more methodical approach with their aggression. Add that to Thompson’s veteran status, and he seems like a slightly better option in this fight.
That said, Luque has also had some success on the ground in past fights. If this bout becomes one that’s decided on the ground, Luque takes a clear advantage here.
Suffice it to say that the Thompson-Luque fight might be one of the tightest and hardest to predict of any fight on the main card. But Thompson is at a crossroads. Either he wins here or he decides to hang it up. Chances are, he’ll come through when it counts most, win in a decision, and keep on building his career in the UFC.
UFC 244 kicks off from Madison Square Garden on Saturday, November 2. The main card begins at 10 p.m., but the early prelims begin at 6:30 p.m. ET on ESPN+ pay-per-view.  The $79.98 pay-per-view fight includes a one-year subscription to ESPN+. 

        
          Caesars Casino Odds
        
      

        
          Main Card
        
      

        Main Event (Welterweight): Jorge Masvidal vs. Nate Diaz
      

        Latest Odds: Masvidal (-160) | Diaz (+130)
      

        Middleweight: Kelvin Gastelum vs. Darren Till
      

        Latest Odds: Gastelum (-200) | Till (+170)
      

        Welterweight: Stephen Thompson vs. Vicente Luque
      

        Latest Odds: Thompson (-130) | Luque (+100)
      

        Heavyweight: Derrick Lewis vs. Blagoy Ivanov
      

        Latest Odds: Lewis (+100) | Ivanov (-125)
      

        Lightweight: Kevin Lee vs. Gregor Gillespie
      

        Latest Odds: Lee (+145) | Gillespie (-175)
      

        
          Preliminary Card (ESPN2)
        
      

        Light Heavyweight: Corey Anderson vs. Johnny Walker
      

        Latest Odds: Anderson (+140) | Walker (-179)
      

        Featherweight: Shane Burgos vs. Makwan Amirkhani
      

        Latest Odds: Burgos (-250) | Amirkhani (+200)
      

        Middleweight: Brad Tavares vs. Edmen Shahbazyan
      

        Latest Odds: Tavares (+105) | Shahbazyan (-130)
      

        Heavyweight: Andrei Arlovski vs. Jairzinho Rozenstruik
      

        Latest Odds: Arlovski (+115) | Rozenstuik (-145)
      

        
          Early Preliminary Card (UFC Fight Pass)
        
      

        Women Catchweight: Katlyn Chookagian vs. Jennifer Maia
      

        Latest Odds: Chookagian (-160) | Maia (+130)
      

        Welterweight: Lyman Good vs. Chance Rencountre
      

        Latest Odds: Good (-130) | Rencountre (+100)
      

        Featherweight: Julio Arce vs. Hakeem Dawodu
      

        Latest Odds: Arce (+100) | Dawodu (-130)
      
