
# Russian journalist defends work on Canadian election, which academics call propaganda

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:07:38+00:00**

Author: **Zach Laing**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/russian-journalist-defends-writing-on-canadian-election-topics-academics-call-propaganda)

A Russian journalist who wrote articles highlighting divisive topics in last month’s general election for a known Russian propaganda website defended his writing in an email to Postmedia this week.
Denis Bolotsky, who wrote three articles for Sputnik news — a Russian agency backed by the Kremlin — looking at Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s uphill battle in the prairies, the Wexit movement, and Maxime Bernier’s People’s Party of Canada, said his work is separate from the government.
“There is no ‘push from the government’ behind my work or the work of my colleagues at Sputnik International — we actually get to choose the topics we cover and the ways we cover them,” Bolotsky wrote in an email to Postmedia days after an initial request for comment. “As a Sputnik journalist, I can tell you that my agency is independent in its editorial policy, and even though it receives funding from the state, Sputnik is not government-controlled.
“Russian media law and the country’s constitution prohibit government censorship. In our coverage, we follow internationally accepted journalistic standards and respect national laws.”
Marcus Kolga, a Canadian expert in Russia and disinformation, said with the agency directly linked to the Kremlin, the agency is thus directly linked to Vladimir Putin. The articles, they added, were likely part of a push to undermine democratic processes and free speech in Western countries.
Bolotsky’s response, Kolga said, was to be expected but also not entirely truthful.
“I think it’s a pretty stock response,” he said. “I think there’s a bit of deflection there (and) that he’s claiming to be independent is fine, but the problem is Sputnik is clearly an agency of the Russian government.
“It’s not at all independent, it’s a well-known outlet and platform that promotes propaganda and disinformation. I think anybody who is writing, quote-unquote, for Sputnik will respond the way this writer did.”
In a statement provided to Postmedia, the Government of Canada Privy Council Office said a panel that oversaw threats to Canada’s election determined there was no activity “that met the threshold for public announcement or affected Canada’s ability to have a free and fair election.”
While Bolotsky told Postmedia in an email that “Russian media law and the country’s constitution prohibit government censorship,” Kolga called the comment ironic.
“I think there’s a number of contradictory laws that prohibit free speech, there are laws that prohibit people from making disparaging remarks about Russia’s contribution to the Second World War,” said Kolga. “I’ve written extensively criticizing Russia’s occupation and oppression of millions of people and for that, if I were in Russia writing that, I could be tried and put into jail.
“Looking at the history of Sputnik in general, it is a propaganda outlet. It is an outlet that promotes disinformation, and I think there’s little doubt… that a lot of the stories are directed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They go from there to Sputnik, and from Sputnik they’re pushed to the wider world.
“The writers at Sputnik support that, they’re hired to do that. There may some independence in selecting some subjects, maybe, (but) most of it is work done to support the organization’s specific mandate and goals, which is propaganda and disinformation.”

        zlaing@postmedia.com
      
On Twitter: @zjlaing
