
# Keanu Reeves praised for 'age-appropriate girlfriend' - despite rumoured partner being younger than him

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:35:43+00:00**

Author: **Chelsea Ritschel**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/keanu-reeves-girlfriend-age-alexandra-grant-wife-2019-a9186706.html)

Keanu Reeves appears to have confirmed he is in a relationship with Alexandra Grant during a red carpet appearance, prompting support for the actor for bucking Hollywood trends and dating an “age-appropriate girlfriend”.  
On Monday, the John Wick star, 55, held hands with the Los Angeles artist, 46, whom he has reportedly been friends with for over a decade, while posing on the LACMA Art + Film Gala red carpet. 
The public display of affection between Reeves and Grant triggered an outpouring of praise on social media, where people applauded The Matrix star for dating someone close to his age - despite there being a nine-year age difference between the couple. 
“It’s a miracle: Hollywood actor dates age-appropriately. An artist with a full head of grey hair to boot,” one person wrote on Twitter. “Keanu, I could not love you more at this moment.”
Another said: “Keanu Reeves has an age-appropriate girlfriend and looks super happy. I love this.” 
However, the praise has prompted some people to point out that there is still a notable difference in the couples’ ages, and that the standards for men in Hollywood are “low”.
“People really need to stop freaking out about Keanu and Alexandra,” someone wrote. “Dating someone in your age bracket isn’t courageous, it’s f***ing normal. He’s proven time and time again he’s a regular guy. 
“Let’s stop with this amazement about who he’s dating and wish them both well.”
Others suggested that the focus on Grant not be about her hair colour or her relationship with Reeves, but her successful career instead. 
Reeves and Grant have previously collaborated on books together, with the artist illustrating two of the actor’s books, Ode to Happiness and Shadows. 
The pair also founded a publishing company called X Artists’ Books. 
Despite the insistence the focus not be on Grant’s appearance, some people on social media could not help but point out the similarities between the artist and actress Helen Mirren. 
“I wasn’t wearing my glasses at first and I legit thought he was dating Helen Mirren which I also would have been here for,” someone wrote. 
Mirren, 74, has been married to Taylor Hackford since 1997.
Others were just happy that Reeves may have found a relationship that brings him happiness.
Reeves has not publicly announced a relationship since Jennifer Syme, whom he dated in the 90s. The couple lost a daughter, who was stillborn, in 1999 before splitting up shortly after. Symes died in a car crash in 2001, at the age of 28.
