
# 11 Stars Who Suffered Horrible Leg Breaks

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:26:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/11-stars-who-suffered-horrible-leg-breaks/666702)

Following former FC Barcelona star Andre Gomes' terrible ankle break this past weekend, here are another 10 well-known footballers who have suffered leg breaks out on the field, including two former PSL players.

        
          Click through gallery above to see Gomes and another 10 footballers who suffered horrible leg breaks in their careers.
        
      
Everton's Premier League clash with Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday evening came to a standstill when, late in the game, Gomes landed awkwardly after a challenge from Heung-min Son before crashing into Serge Aurier and subsequently breaking his ankle.
In the aftermath of the tackle, which did not appear to be overly aggressive, Son was sent off, perhaps as the extent of the injury became clear.
Players surrounding the 26-year-old Gomes consoled the Portuguese midfielder as he screamed in agony, while others turned away with their hands over their heads. Son, whose contact forced the Everton midfielder to the ground, broke down in tears.
After the game, Spurs boss Mauricio Pochettino revealed that the 27-year-old South Korean winger was comforted by opposition captain Seamus Coleman in the dressing room, an incredibly kind gesture from somebody who himself has been on the receiving end of a leg break.
In 2017, while representing Ireland on the international stage during a FIFA World Cup qualifier, the right-back fractured both his tibia and fibula in a challenge from Wales' Neil Taylor. Perhaps Coleman knew that Son's intent was not to hurt his teammate, and his professionalism was praised by Pochettino.
Manchester United left-back Luke Shaw broke his leg in two places during a UEFA Champions League tie against PSV Eindhoven, and some suggest he has still not fully recovered from the setback mentally, while in Mzansi, both Jimmy Jambo and Dillon Sheppard endured horribly painful injuries.

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
Another player who suffered horribly in this regard is former France international Djibril Cisse, who broke both his legs in a two-year period – click through the gallery above to see some more big names who have suffered terrible leg breaks.
