
# Barcelona superstar receives two new offers for a winter transfer

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:34:14+00:00**

Author: **Nishant Narayanan**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/06/la-masia-graduate-set-for-january-loan-move/)

The recently promoted 21-year-old Barcelona midfielder Carles Alena is wanted by many across European football with interests coming from several Spanish first division teams along with two Premier League teams. Sources even claim that Italian giants AC Milan are also closely monitoring the Player’s situation.
The La Masia graduate has fallen down the ranks under manager Ernesto Valverde as the Spaniard has failed to feature on the team sheet since the team’s first La Liga match against Athletic Club Bilbao where the Spanish giants lost 1-0.
The Blaugrana midfield is packed with many great options like Frenkie de Jong, Sergio Busquets, Arthur Melo, Ivan Rakitic and Arthuro Vidal, along with fellow academy graduate Ruqui Puig, and as such, Alena has lost his spot and will look to find his minutes elsewhere.
Tottenham manager, Mauricio Pochettino, is looking to use his friendship with the player’s agent to land a loan deal for the Spaniard. Reports claim that the Argentine boss has been tracking Alena for a while and even attended the youngster’s match in Miniestadi with Barca B alongside the player’s agent, Ivan de la Pena.  Barcelona, however, prefers to play the midfielder in Spain where they can closely monitor his progress. Estadio Deportivo has reported that Real Betis, Getafe, Celta Vigo, and Granada are all interested in the youngster.
Alena is under contract with the Camp Nou outfit until 2023 with a buyout clause set at 75 million euros.
Where do you think Carles Alena will play in January?
