
# Meet the young woman behind Union Street's latest vegan business

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **William Telford**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/meet-young-woman-behind-union-3505197)

The steady march of veganism shows no signs of halting with yet another meat- and dairy-free business opening in what is becoming Plymouth’s epicentre of hip – Union Street.
Emily Adams has launched her vegan food business Green Gal Goods with a regular weekly pop-up cafe in what was once the Ocean City’s most notorious strip.
Now your more likely to see a nosh-up than a punch-up, with pulses having supplanted punches, greens instead of grog.
Ms Adams, a 24-year-old recent University of Plymouth graduate, is running her venture every Tuesday, from 11am to 5pm, in what was once the infamous 24-hour-pub The Clipper.
It’s now a community business hub and already home to vegan enterprise No Whey and has hosted another called Grilling in the Name.
And with the all vegan Cosmic Kitchen further up the street, and the newly-opened Cawfee also serving a range of meat-free dishes, Union Street is building itself a new reputation as a successful place to serve plant-based food.
“I’ve been very busy,” said Ms Adams, who lives in the city centre. “On the first day I was overwhelmed, people came in to see me I have never even met before. They just came in to support me.”
She said a lot of them were from a vegan community which is growing in the city, as witnessed by the support for a recent Viva, vegan charity, event in the Piazza, for which she supplied cakes.
And it was cake-making that tore Ms Adams away from a career in science. She studied marine biology and oceanography for four years at the University of Plymouth, but during that time found herself becoming deputy sustainability officer.
So when Ms Adams made vegan cakes for a sustainability fair at the university it gave her the idea for a business.
“I sold out of everything,” she said. “And I had baked a lot. I loved my course, but I enjoy baking too.”
She took the plunge and started Green Gal Goods, making chocolate, lemon drizzle and gluten-free banana bread and cinnamon cakes, and vegan mince pies, with sunflower and vegetable oil instead of egg, fresh each day she opens at The Clipper.
She has expanded into soups too – with a novel offering that you can pay for your lunch just what you can afford.
“People that can afford more pay more,” she said. “Voluntarily.”
Vegans eat no animal products, while vegetarians don’t eat animals but may eat products that come from animals such as milk and eggs). People choose these diets because of health concerns, religious restrictions or moral concerns about harming animals or wanting to protect the environment.
Although all vegans tend to follow the same set of clear cut guidelines – eating nothing that comes from an animal – there are a some different vegetarian diets, such as:
Lacto-ovo (or ovo-lacto) - from the Latin words for milk and egg, and  the most common type of vegetarians who eat dairy products and eggs but avoid meat, poultry and seafood.
Lacto - vegetarians who eat dairy products but no eggs, meat, poultry or seafood.
Ovo - vegetarians who eat eggs but no dairy products, meat, poultry or seafood.
Pesco - vegetarians, or pescatarians, who don’t technically meet the definition of vegetarian but follow a semi-vegetarian diet and eat fish and other seafood but not poultry or meat.
Clothes and cosmetics - vegans avoid wearing leather and suede because they are made from animal skins. They may avoid fabrics that are made from animal byproducts, including wool and silk, because animals can be harmed in the process. Many vegans also buy only cruelty-free cosmetics and beauty products.
She is also collaborating with another Plymouth vegan business, Dippy’s, to offer its dips with her jacket potatoes, toasties, sandwiches, pasta and salad.
She makes all the food on-site at The Clipper and has a five-star hygiene rating.
And she is already eyeing expansion, in talks with St Saviours CIC, the organisation which runs St Saviours Church, at the Barbican, about a second location.
She already supplies cakes for events organised there by environmental group Extinction Rebellion.
Ms Adams turned vegan in 2015 after having been a self-confessed “meatarian”.
“I ate nothing but meat and dairy,” she said. “But then I read about how it impacts on the environment and animals. I went totally vegan within a year and haven’t gone back.”
A Green Party member, is also now involved with the People and Planet environmental and social justice charity.
“You can’t have one without the other,” she said.
Business Live's Plymouth journalist is William Telford, business editor at Plymouth Live. William has more than a decade's experience reporting on the business scene in the Ocean City.
To contact William:
Email: william.telford@reachplc.com
Phone: 01752 293116
Facebook: www.facebook.com/william.telford.5473
Twitter: @WTelfordHerald
To sign up for Business Live's daily newsletters click here   
Ms Adams, who also enjoys martial arts, is keen to stress how a plant-based diet is beneficial to a person’s health and actually aids fitness.
“There is a lot of protein in veg,” she said. “You can still get all the nutrition you need without the fat and cruelty.
“It’s a healthy way to be and without compromising flavour or health.”
