
# A Study Shows That the Air in Your Home Is Dirtier Than the Air Outside, Here’s Why

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/wonder-curiosities/a-study-shows-that-the-air-in-your-home-is-dirtier-than-the-air-outside-heres-why-794670/)

When you hear or read about “air pollution” the first things that come to your mind are factory smoke and car exhaust. However, as bad as outside air pollution is, dirty indoor air is truly the real danger. Yes, you read that correctly, the air inside your house, workplace, or even gym can be a lot more dangerous than the air outside.
Bright Side would like to give you more information about this and hopefully raise more awareness to the health risks it poses.
According to this study, indoor air can be a lot more polluted than the air outside. And it’s been estimated that most people spend 90% of their lives indoors, whether it’s their home, their school, their work or anywhere that is a private or public indoor environment.
The air inside your house is usually a mix of outdoor pollutants, like the ones from vehicles or factories. And the second part of it is indoor contaminants, like combustion sources and emissions from building materials, furnishings, and electronic equipment. Moisture, cleaning products, and chemicals are also very dangerous and can contaminate the air in your living space. Another reason for the unhealthy air is the inhabitants, like smokers or even pets, for example.
This just shows that a lot of people are at risk of inhaling dirty, polluted air every single day. In addition to this, that poor air quality is even more harmful to vulnerable groups like children, elderly people, or people suffering from respiratory and/or cardiovascular diseases.
This research shows that polluted indoor air may affect children more than outside air. The respiratory system is a primary target for air pollutants and it can result in a long list of troubles for a child.
The second group of people that have the highest risk of health problems due to polluted air are elderly people. A study by the European Lung Foundation found out that indoor air pollution in nursing homes had a big effect on the respiratory systems of elder residents and their quality of life.
This study claims that a drop in the Air Quality Index can lower your productivity by 5%. So polluted air is bad for us in more ways than one.
Experts suggest installing environmental sensors. They can track the quality of the air we breathe, give us critical information about the things we are breathing in, and help us figure out when to fight it. We can do other things do to improve the quality of the air inside of our houses, workplaces, and schools by paying attention to things like:
Have any of you tried to combat polluted air inside your homes? Please share your experiences with us.
Preview photo credit depositphotos.com, depositphotos.com
