
# T-Mobile Connect includes unlimited talk, text, and 5G access for $15/month

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:53:15+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/t-mobile-connect-includes-unlimited-talk-text-and-5g-access-15month?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
On November 7, T-Mobile hosted a livestream for its Un-Carrier 1.0 event — the first Un-Carrier announcement we've seen since the FCC approved the company's merger with Sprint. A few big headlines came out of the event, including a new wireless plan called "T-Mobile Connect."
T-Mobile Connect costs $15/month and is targeted at lower-income families that want wireless access for the lowest price possible. You'll get unlimited talk and text, along with 2GB of high-speed data per month. If you want to do more streaming or browsing, you can spend $25/month for 5GB of high-speed data.
Furthermore, if you have a 5G-capable device and live in an area where T-Mobile's 5G network is active, you'll also be able to connect to the carrier's 5G network on T-Mobile Connect at no additional cost.
Per T-Mobile's press release:
What's particularly interesting about T-Mobile Connect is its Annual Data Upgrade feature. Every year, your high-speed data allotment goes up by 500MB. So, if you sign up for the $15/month plan, your first year will include 2GB per month, your second year offers 2.5GB, the third year goes up to 3GB, etc.
T-Mobile says that Annual Data Upgrade works for "the next five years", indicating that the max data you can get with the $15/month plan is 4GB once you reach year five.

        One eternity later Hey Google — why hasn't my Pixel 4 gotten the November security patch? The Pixel 4 is Google's latest flagship smartphone, so why is it still stuck on the October security patch?
      

        🐠🐡🐟🦈 Something fishy's going on: How Google names in-development Pixels Did you know your Pixel phone was named after a fish? Check out the faces behind the names for Google's Pixel line.
      

        Smarter Smart Screens You no longer have to ask your Google Smart Display when a photo was taken Google Photos on smart displays now shows the date and the length of time since a photo was taken. Huzzah!
      

        Great picks The Galaxy S10+ is the best T-Mobile phone for most people Wondering about the best phones T-Mobile offers? We've got you covered.
      
