
# Nicklas Bendtner branded Arsene Wenger an “a**hole and w***er” in furious telephone call

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:14:03+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/nicklas-bendtner-branded-arsene-wenger-20813851)

Nicklas Bendtner branded Arsene Wenger an “a**hole and w***er” in a furious telephone call after the former Arsenal boss stopped him from joining Crystal Palace .
Danish international Bendtner, 31, had fallen out of favour at Arsenal and was on the brink of moving to Selhurst Park to make a fresh start on deadline day in 2013.
But former Arsenal boss Wenger rang and told Bendtner the deal was off because he could not find a new striker and told him he would have to stay and be back-up even though Palace were offering “serious money.”
Bendtner, in his new book Both Sides which is out today, is largely positive about Wenger and his influence on his career but is still bitter about the move to Palace which collapsed at the 11th hour.
And despite apologising for his foul-mouthed outburst at Wenger, Bendtner says he is “not naive” enough to think it did not cause a rift between the pair and he started just one Premier League game that season.
Bendtner, now at FC Copenhagen, wrote: “I have been using it for as long as possible. The more we approach 23:59 on Monday, September 2, 2013, the more the clubs will raise their bids. The most desperate will.
“And if I have to leave a top club in favour of a promoted club, I have to feel wanted with a lot more than words. Serious money is needed.
“My choice has dropped at Crystal Palace. Another old London club, completely without Arsenal's trophies and titles in recent times, but with proud traditions and loyal fans.
“When the transfer window slams in a few hours, it finally happens. On September 3rd at 00.00 I will no longer be Arsenal player. All that's missing right now is a signature from Arsène Wenger.
“The details are in place. Two years with Selhurst Park as home. Same basic salary as in Arsenal and some slightly bad bonuses - unless we go and over-perform. I will be the first choice in the attack, side by side with Chamakh, my competitor back from the 2010/11 season.
“It is in many ways a sensible solution. Because I can stay close to Nicholas (his son), and if it lights up between me and Caroline (ex-partner), I can see him far more than the first three years of his life.
“As it is right now, I have to settle for a glimpse of my son every other weekend and once a week. And only during the daytime. Overnight does not come at all. Caroline says I'm living too irresponsibly and my lawyers can't do anything about it.
“When it comes to rights in divided English families, it is the women and only the women who wear their pants.
“If only I had to think about my own career, Juventus would clearly have been the coolest, but Crystal Palace is going. That's what I say to myself.
"It's been the evening of my last day as Arsenal player. I'm sitting at The Westbury, my favorite hotel in London, waiting for the fax with Wenger's signature.
“With me, I have Tom Brookes (his agent), Crystal Palace's club chairman, Steve Parish, and manager Ian Holloway. We have been here most of the day and I am impatient like in the old days. It's my restless ego for full blowout.
“I can't sit still and wade back and forth in the lobby and care less and less about the situation. About the wait. Why don't they just get their finger on Bell Lane so I can get on with my career?
“The clock has rounded 20 as Wenger rings. He goes straight to the case. ‘It doesn't matter to your move,’ he says. ‘We haven't been able to buy the striker we wanted. So now you have to be a backup. It will be your job next year. ‘
“I hang up. Looking at Tom, who shrugs. Then I call back. Saying a lot of ugly, disrespectful things. Like ‘a**hole’ and ‘w***er.’
“‘We don't like each other anymore’” I finish my snapping. “'It will be best for everyone to part ways.’” I'm really trying to free myself.
“'Yes okay, it's very possible,’” Wenger replies with his thick French accent. ‘But it's not going to happen. See you for training.’”
“I have a sleepless night, and on Tuesday morning I drive early to London Colney. I go directly to the manager's office and knock. ‘You must excuse the things I was told yesterday,’ I begin.
“I really don't want to be Wenger's enemy. Morten Olsen and him are probably the two that I at least want to disappoint. The boss has been following me for nine years and knows what it's all about.
“That it was a big step to have to leave the club of my heart, especially for another English team. Something that I had to take for a long time.”
“'We forget it and look forward,’” he says.
“I'm not that naive. My chances in the Arsenal jersey have never been less. The next year will be uphill like nothing else in my career. And there is no one to support me. Sure, the boys on the first team do. As I move my stuff into closet number 23, I am well received.
“In the press, on Twitter and in the stands, it's a different story. Here I am condemned big time. Everyone thinks it's me who refuses to change. That I have been to milk Arsenal for the last of my contract period. And nobody shoots the misconception down.
“No one goes out and says: ‘We clocked it in and never found an extra striker so Nicklas could get on and get a fresh start. Therefore he must stay.’”
“It's just that. I no longer enjoy Wenger's protection, is no longer a priority. And when I finally get a few minutes, it's like turning the time back eight years. I debut in October in Carling Cup…”
