
# November's big Premium Bond winners revealed - including two new millionaires

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/novembers-big-premium-bond-winners-20766386)

Two new people have just hit the £1million jackpot after winning November's premium bonds draw.
One resident in Norwich and another in Cumbria have scooped the big windfall - making them a whole lot richer.
The first winner is from Norwich - and the winning Bond number is 176LR488412.
The bond was purchased in December 2010 and has £10,600 invested. He is Norwich’s second ERNIE millionaire to date.
November’s second winner is a man from Cumbria - with the winning number 168TK729554, thanks to his £26,600 savings.
It marks the sixth time Agent Million has travelled up to the county and only two years since the last visit.
 
Jill Waters, at NS&I, said: "For the two jackpot winners, the 1st November will certainly be one they always remember as a knock on the door from Agent Million will be seen as the most welcome of treats.
"Premium Bonds are one of the most popular ways to save in the UK and this month we reached the milestone of over 50million prizes being paid directly into winners’ bank accounts, saving them the time and effort of paying a warrant (similar to a cheque) into their bank or building society account.
"This year, we have also opened up Premium Bonds so that anyone aged 16 or over can buy them for nieces, nephews and family friends aged under 16, making them a perfect gift for Christmas, especially as the minimum investment is now just £25."
Since the first draw in June 1957, ERNIE has drawn 459 million prizes with a total value of £20 billion.
As well as the three million plus prizes being paid out this month, you may have landed a Premium Bonds prize that you are not aware of.
Currently there are more than 1.6million prizes worth almost £64million still waiting to be claimed by Premium Bond holders.
Premium Bonds may go unclaimed for reasons including if NS&I don’t hold your current address details or if you had Bonds bought as a child but have since forgotten about them.
Customers can make sure that their details are up to date and choose to have any future prizes paid directly into their bank account, by registering to manage their Premium Bonds and NS&I accounts online at nsandi.com/register.
You can find out if any of your Premium Bonds are winners by downloading the prize checker app from the App Store or Google Play, or visit the prize checker at nsandi.com.
If you think you might have won, check here.
Customers manage their Bonds online at nsandi.com and by phone. Alternatively, see our guide here on how to locate a lost Premium Bond.
