
# Remember that fake band Threatin? They returned to London last night and it was as weird as you could imagine

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:49:55+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/blogs/fake-band-threatin-return-london-camden-review-2563926?utm_source=hootsuite&utm_medium=&utm_term=&utm_content=&utm_campaign=)


        Last year Threatin made headlines for playing a tour of empty shows. Exactly one year on from the band’s appearance at The Underworld Camden Jered ‘Threatin’ Eames is making his return. We headed down to see what the viral trickster had planned for the evening, and to see if anybody turned up this time…
      
If you don’t remember the story behind Jered “Threatin” Eames, here’s the abridged version. Late last year, the American musician travelled to Europe to play a 10-city tour with his band Threatin. Half way through the run of shows, though, bookers and venue workers realised something unusual was going: the shows were consistently empty. Several of the promoters say they were told that hundreds of tickets had been sold by Threatin’s team, only to see handfuls of people actually turn up on the night. His touring band quit the tour half way through, before the last few dates were cut completely. The tour eventually went viral, with Threatin himself claiming that the entire thing was a “publicity stunt”. It was never clear whether it was entirely intentional or, as his brother Scott Eames said, a “failed attempt at entering the music industry”.
One year to the day on from Threatin’s now-notorious show at The Underworld in Camden, he’s back, and so are the same support acts. London metal band Evyltyde were here this time last year, though they weren’t initially meant to be on the bill. They got offered the show as a last-minute replacement, and when they heard what venue the show was being held at (and realised it fitted in nicely with their tour), the band immediately said yes. It was only after then they started to dig into the history of Threatin that they realised not everything was what it seemed. “At the time I said ‘it’s really weird, it’s either going to be really good, or there’s going to be nobody there,’” the band’s guitarist Danny Merton recalls. “And it was the latter…there was literally three people in the audience, and they were all people we’d invited.”
