
# Shirley Ballas 'feels more like herself' after having breast implants removed

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:00:27+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, Mark Jefferies, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/shirley-ballas-feels-more-like-20811201)

Shirley Ballas has revealed she 'feels more like herself' after having her breast implants removed just days ago due to cancer fears.
Strictly Come Dancing ’s head judge, 59, said she was in agony after the four-hour surgery but only wanted 'minimal painkillers' when she appeared on the BBC1 show.
Shirley said: “I’m good. It’s been an emotional week for sure. I made a commitment to the show and wanted to see it through.
“I made a decision to put them in and I made the decision to take them out. Every day it will get better.
“It’s about six to eight weeks of recuperation. I won’t miss a show.”
 
Prior to the operation, Shirley spoke about the procedure with contestant Michelle Visage, who recently revealed she has had her implants removed too.
Shirley said: “She wished me well and told me to take my time recuperating. She said she feels like a new woman. So from woman to woman she wanted to share that experience of how much healthier she felt.”
Shirley admitted she was “still getting used” to life without implants.
Speaking on ITV’s Lorraine, she showcased before and after photos.
She added: “All the clothes are a little different. It was a DD and now it’s an AB, so it’s quite a difference in size.”
Shirley recently urged women to rethink implants, saying: “Don’t think you need to have these procedures to make you look more attractive.
“If someone is making you feel bad, talk to someone. Don’t do what I did. You can’t make somebody love you, no matter what you do to ­yourself. It’s learning to love yourself.”
For those still considering implants, she urged them to “do their research” and added: “I did not do mine. I thought if I put them in my husband would think of me as more desirable.
“I made this choice many years ago, not understanding what I was really doing, except telling myself I didn’t look good enough.”
