
# T-Mobile promises a $15 budget Connect plan with 2GB data if the Sprint merger goes through

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:03:00+00:00**

Author: **Chaim Gartenberg**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/7/20953314/t-mobile-connect-plan-budget-price-data-gb-amount-unlimited-talk-text)

T-Mobile has announced a new T-Mobile Connect wireless plan that’s would be the cheapest plan the carrier offers: $15 per month for unlimited talk, text, and 2GB of data. The catch? T-Mobile is only planning to offer the deal if its planned Sprint deal goes though.
That price includes access to 5G data, although you’ll likely burn through that 2GB pretty quickly on 5G. There’s also a $25-per-month plan that offers 5GB of data. Use up that allotment, though, and you’ll need to pay for more (instead of getting dropped down to slower speeds, which is what happens on the “unlimited” plans).
To sweeten the deal, T-Mobile also says that it’ll add 500MB to your monthly allowance each year you have the plan, for at least five years. (So after the first year, you’ll have 2.5GB of data per month; after two years, it’ll be 3GB per month; etc.) Additionally, T-Mobile is promising that the price won’t change on these plans for at least five years.
The new plans — along with the other goodwill initiatives T-Mobile announced today — are part of the company’s effort to try to garner some support for its still-pending merger with Sprint. If that deal doesn’t go through, then neither will the new plans.

        
          Update November 7, 12:55pm: 
        
        Added details that T-Mobile only plans to offer the new $15 Connect plan if the pending Sprint merger goes though.
      
