
# Real earned hard-fought win over Granada 1-2 at Los Carmenes

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:14:05+00:00**

Author: **SPORT.es**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/laliga/real-earned-hard-fought-win-over-granada-1-2-at-los-carmenes-7713298)

Real sways pass Granada 1-2 on Sunday at Los Carmenes. Granada and Real Sociedad arrived at this match after suffering a defeat in their previous league game. Granada arrived with the intention of regaining victory after losing 3-1 against Getafe while Real Sociedad lost by a result of 1-2 in the previous match against Levante. As of today, Granada is 6th in the LaLiga, having garnered 20 points from 12 matches, while Real Sociedad sits at 3rd with 22 points after playing a total of 12 matches.
An impressive opening from Real Sociedad, with a goal from Portu in the 21st minute. Granada gave an equalizer thanks to a goal from Álvaro Vadillo in the 36th minute to establish the 1-1, which saw the first half to a 1-1.
Real Sociedad boosted the game in the second half, thanks to another goal from Portu, scoring his second goal just before the end of the second half, and the game ended 1-2.
As for substitutions, both coaches used full substitutions. For Granada, Darwin Machís, Fede Vico and Quini came on for Antonio Puertas, Yan Eteki and Álvaro Vadillo, while Real brought on Alexander Isak, Adnan Januzaj and Ander Guevara to replace Willian Jose, Luca Sangalli Fuentes and Portu.
The referee booked two players from Real Sociedad, Robin Le Normand and Willian Jose.
Granada will be playing against Valencia at away stadium, while Real Sociedad will face Leganés at home stadium.
