
# EICMA 2019: KTM 390 Adventure showcased, India launch this year?

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:39:04+00:00**

Author: **Aditya Chatterjee  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/eicma-2019-ktm-390-adventure-showcased-india-launch-this-year/)

And finally its out in the public. KTM has unveiled the much anticipated 390 Adventure motorcycle at the EICMA 2019 show in Milan. And from the looks of it, the 2020 KTM 390 Adventure mimics the styling of the 790 Adventure, another motorcycle that might hit Indian shores next year. Coming back to the 390 Adventure, KTM India is expected to launch the motorcycle at IBW this year. We are awaiting final confirmation from the company regarding the same.
The new KTM 390 Adventure has harnessed the attributes and DNA from the popular and highly rated KTM 790 ADVENTURE as well as the development information gleaned from nearly two decades of Dakar Rally success. A breezy, agile, and ideal entry model for riders keen to discover the adventure sensation, this motorcycle offers added versatility for touring and light offroading. Using elements of the KTM 390 DUKE as a base, the KTM 390 ADVENTURE offers proximity to the feeling and performance found at the root of the all-conquering KTM 450 RALLY but with crucial A2 license compatibility and current Euro emissions standards as part of the package.
It is being said that the engine powering the KTM 390 Adventure will be tweaked version of the unit offered in the KTM 390 Duke which we believe could make its way into the new-gen Duke that arrives next year. The state of tune is expected to change with a meatier torque to make sure the 390 Adventure doesn't feel strained while pulling weight of the rider, pillion and the luggage. As seen from the images, the test bike features a distinct exhaust and a catalytic converter, which will help it comply with the EuroV and also the upcoming BSVI emissions that will come into effect in India from next year. In terms of design, the frame of the KTM 390 Adventure is similar to that of the KTM RC 390.
In terms of gizmos, the KTM 390 Adventure will be seen with TFT instrumentation and a host of electronics which could offer ride modes. The test KTM 390 Adventure is also seen with luggage options that could be offered as accessories under Power Parts.

        Also read, 
      

        EICMA 2019: Here's everything you need to know
      
