
# Callous thugs Connor Pendergast and Harry Sharman attack sleeping homeless man and film it

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:07:33+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Fiounnula Hainey, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/callous-thugs-connor-pendergast-harry-17190728)

A brazen duo have been jailed after the "brutally" attack of a sleeping homeless man.
The callous pair attacked the helpless, defenceless rough sleeper in Blackpool.
And, sickeningly, the 19-year-old and 22-year-old attackers filmed it.
The victim, who is in his 20s, was sleeping rough in a shop doorway on Bank Hey Street when they launched the vicious attack, which left him with serious head injuries.
Connor Pendergast, 19, used his phone to take a video, which shows Harry Sharman, 22, stamping on the victim's head.
Following the attack in the early hours of September 24, Pendergast and Sharman, both from Blackpool, were charged with assault, the Manchester Evening News reported.
 
Inspector David Wilson, of Blackpool Police, said: “This was an entirely unprovoked attack, which was both brutal and sustained, leaving an innocent and clearly vulnerable man with extremely nasty injuries.
“Pendergast and Sharman should be utterly ashamed of their actions that morning."
 
The pair appeared at Preston Crown Court on Friday (November 1), having previously pleaded guilty to assault occasioning actual bodily harm.
Sharman was sentenced to six months imprisonment and told to pay a £115 victim surcharge.
Pendergast was sentenced to six months in a young offenders’ institution and told to pay a £115 victim surcharge.
Insp Wilson added: “I am satisfied with the sentence handed down to them and I hope they use their time behind bars to reflect on the consequences of their actions.”
