
# Luce review – hard lessons for a high-school star

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:00:21+00:00**

Author: **Peter Bradshaw**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/nov/06/luce-review-kelvin-harrison-naomi-watts-octavia-spencer)


        In this strange and muddled drama, Octavia Spencer plays a teacher who makes an unsettling discovery about one of her pupils
      
Here is a contemporary ensemble drama that sets out to stress test fault lines in US society – racial, sexual, generational. It is adapted by JC Lee from his off-Broadway play and the director is Julius Onah.
Kelvin Harrison Jr plays Luce, a brilliant African-American high-school student heading for future greatness. His career is all the more remarkable considering that at seven years old, he had been an Eritrean child soldier, adopted by a white liberal couple, Amy (Naomi Watts) and Peter (Tim Roth). But Luce has this too-good-to-be-true broad smile and borderline insufferable attitude of praise for his school.
His history teacher Harriet Wilson (Octavia Spencer) doesn’t appear to like this overachiever much and then calls in his mom to discuss a certain unsettling paper Luce has written about the radical revolutionary Frantz Fanon – and the fact that Luce has stashed illegal fireworks in his locker. Her suspicious attitude triggers a disastrous series of events.
Luce is a strange film. It’s certainly about secrets and lies and stereotypical assumptions, and its ambiguities and unresolved mysteries are intentionally created. The pairing of Roth and Watts reminded me of the married couple they played in Michael Haneke’s horror remake Funny Games – an echo that had me wondering if this was inspired by the high-school mystery in Haneke’s film Hidden. But each constituent part of the drama, each narrative twist, each enigmatic gesture, is weirdly forced, overacted and under-explained.
It is strange how Harriet overreacts to the surely reasonably well-known figure of Frantz Fanon (Zadie Smith has a recent essay relating Fanon to Jordan Peele’s movie Get Out) and even if we assume that her attitude concerns her other suspicions and is in any case a symptom of her fraught family situation – well, these plot lines themselves appear to lead nowhere, despite an almost bizarrely melodramatic and questionably judged “meltdown” scene for Harriet’s troubled sister Rosemary (Marsha Stephanie Blake).
On top of all this, there is a consent issue involving Luce’s ex-girlfriend Stephanie (Andrea Bang) whose own apparent changes of mind and heart are opaque in ways that are dramatically unconvincing. Luce feels theatrical in the wrong way: muddled and contrived.
• Luce is released in the UK on 8 November.
