
# Usman Khawaja and Joe Burns are amongst top six batters in Australia, claims Wade Seccombe

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:45:23+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/03/usman-khawaja-and-joe-burns-are-amongst-top-six-batters-in-australia-claims-wade-seccombe?utm_medium=rss)


        With the Australian summer having already kicked off with T20s against Sri Lanka and Pakistan, both Usman Khawaja and Joe Burns are on a mission to break into the Test side. Following the duo's recent performances, Queensland coach Wade Seccombe adjudged them as one of the top 6 Australian batters.
      
The ongoing Sheffield Shield fixture between Western Australia and Queensland at the Gabba is turning out to be a run feast. While WA has piled up 332 in their first innings, Queensland is also looking to build a healthy lead as they ended day 2 at 167. 
The star performers for Queensland with the bat are Usman Khawaja and Joe Burns, both of whom are looking to break into the national side ahead of the Pakistan Test series. While Burns scored a gritty 76 before succumbing to Cameron Green, Khawaja is looking good, still unbeaten at stumps batting on 30.
While piling up runs in the Sheffield Shield is the traditional criteria of selection for the national side, head coach Justin Langer's revelation about two spots being up for grabs in the Test squad, that too in the top six, has stirred up even more interest in the Shield fixtures. Speaking highly of Burns and Khawaja, Queensland head coach Wade Seccombe placed them among the top 6 Australian batters right now.
"Joe Burns was very impressive today. We know his record is very impressive at the next level and I think he is putting another case forward now," Seccombe said. "And Ussie is the same. He is as good as anyone running around. I believe they are in the top six batters in Australia."
The first Test between Australia and Pakistan will be played at the Gabba on November 21.
