
# Beyond A Safe Haven: Responding To The Refugee Crisis

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **John Hewko**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/unicefusa/2019/11/06/beyond-a-safe-haven-responding-to-the-refugee-crisis/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2823074431&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)


        
          A valued UNICEF partner since 1988, Rotary International is celebrating 75 years of humanitarian cooperation with the United Nations by honoring six individuals tackling the urgent challenges faced by the world’s 70.8 million forcibly displaced people.
        
      
On the occasion of 75 years of humanitarian cooperation between Rotary International and the United Nations, it’s time to recognize the people responding to the urgent challenges of today’s displaced people as we realize that 1 in every 108 people on the planet is displaced.
Whether a result of persecution, conflict, violence or human rights violations, that amounts to 70.8 million people who have been forced to flee their homes. This figure is unprecedented – even higher than it was after World War II – and in 2018, it continued to grow at a rate of 37,000 displaced persons every day.
The appropriate response is not easily found, especially in protracted conflict. Even if those suffering displacement reach a relatively safe haven, opportunities to return home may be few and far between — and the average length of displacement for a refugee is between 10 and 26 years.
These facts may be disheartening, but there are things we can do to help. To begin, we can pinpoint the causes for inertia in the face of these admittedly huge challenges.
Pope Francis has spoken of the “globalization of indifference,” a numbing of compassion as a result of our information-saturated culture. This may certainly play a part, but even if people are full of sympathy and altruistic concern for the plight of today’s displaced persons, they may well want to make a difference but don’t know how.
On November 9, Rotary International is hosting Rotary Day at the United Nations, a public event honoring six individuals who have figured out how to make a difference and are taking decisive action for refugees and displaced persons. Part of their impact is guided by their efforts to pay close attention to the particular circumstances of displaced populations, and I’d like to share just a few examples of their dynamic work.
An estimated 900,000 refugees have fled to Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh to escape violence in Myanmar, making it the world’s largest refugee camp. Hasina Rahman has made it her mission to aid mothers and children in the camp. Her work has driven the construction of an outpatient therapeutic center to provide lifesaving preventative and curative nutrition services for children, and pregnant and lactating women. The center has screened more than 500,000 Rohingya children and helped more than 7,800 severely malnourished children.
After shelter, food and health care, education is also vital for displaced youth. Schools offer a sense of normalcy in a turbulent environment, provide safe spaces, and support mental health and wellbeing.
Rotary Peace Fellow Lucienne Heyworth left her job as a teacher in her native Australia to become an expert on education in areas of conflict. Seeing education as a basic human right that is often overlooked in conflicts, she developed an “Education in Emergencies” curriculum, providing education modules for delivery in makeshift learning spaces for displaced persons or on the road for those in transit.
Finally, for those refugees who travel far to find safety, integrating in a totally different culture can be difficult.
Dr. Bernd Fischer, a former career diplomat, recognized this problem in Germany, a main country of asylum for refugees. Dr. Fischer wanted to help new arrivals integrate in his country, understanding that refugee women face serious obstacles to active participation in German daily life. In response, he is drawing on his experience to spearhead a project to integrate 240 refugee women into German society over two years. The project has already trained 100 women with children and provided mentoring in their own language, child care so they can receive medical and psychological treatment, job training and placement, and German language and cultural integration.
For those struggling to reconcile their desire to help refugees with a sense of helplessness in the face of the challenge, Rotary’s honorees offer more than inspiration. They show us that our responses can be defined not by the “globalization of indifference,” but rather by the localization of effective, lasting change.
