
# Raheem Sterling set for game-changing boot deal as Puma pip Nike to Man City superstar

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:04:16+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/raheem-sterling-set-game-changing-20835544)

Raheem Sterling is set to sign a "game-changing" deal with kit manufacturers Puma.
England star Sterling has taken over from David Beckham as the hottest property in football and his new lucrative boot deal is another sign of his popularity.
It is a huge coup by Puma to get the Manchester City forward who has become the biggest star in English football and has huge marketing potential.
Sterling has been with Nike but boot manufacturers have been ready to break the bank to get him when his deal expires next year.
He has become the most attractive player in the country and is a sign of his pulling power.
 
Sterling has been signed up as the new face of Gillette, is doing an advert for Pepsi and is doing a tie-up with H&M.
He has more than six million followers on Instagram and starred in an advert for video game FIFA 2020.
It is a blow for Nike who have also lost Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, who is set to join Adidas next summer.
Sterling has a voice on anti-racism campaigns and his advisers have also been working on a film about his life and rise to fame.
The ex-Liverpool star has won back-to-back titles with Manchester City and, incredibly, has already scored 18 goals for club and country this season.
 
Struggling Norwich have covered themselves by putting 50 per cent pay cut clauses in the majority of their player contracts to cover themselves in the event of relegation.
They trebled the wages of some players last summer, taking the average earning to around £30,000-a-week but have been shrewd so the cost of relegation would not cripple the club in the long-term.
Many clubs have a relegation clause but not as much as 50 per cent and it seems Norwich have learned a lesson from their last time in the Premier League.
They signed Steven Naismith from Everton in January 2016 on a £52,000-a-week contract. He spent the last 18 months of his contract on loan at Hearts but still pocketed a hefty promotion bonus after Norwich won the title before his deal eventually expired last summer.
 
Liquid Football is one of the best podcasts around - and might just have unearthed another spying scandal.
Former Stoke forward Jon Walters claimed on the show that clubs go to all sorts of lengths to watch, film and spy on training sessions and behind-closed-doors games.
Walters said: “I know of, I’m not going to say who, one club, they’ll go and watch a match with a pair of glasses with a camera in the glasses to film it, to get any advantage, set pieces or anything like that. That’s top level and so it does go on.”
 
Sky are maintaining their very admirable eco-friendly stance by asking all guests to wear pinned poppy badges rather than old style paper poppies.
There is frustration and embarrassment within the Bulgarian FA after last month’s events in Sofia.
Frustration because they quickly identified the group of supporters in the stands making racist chants during England’s Euro 2020 qualifier.
The police refused to remove them despite warnings that it was a co-ordinated event from far right political parties.
Incredibly, public pressure led to those involved being identified and some were found, fined and yet no serious charges brought.
 
One got a bigger fine for twice ‘mooning’ in the stands than others did for racist gestures.
And there was embarrassment because Bulgarian FA chiefs feel strongly that their own country’s laws are not strong enough.
They were subjected to insulting anti-Bulgarian chants in Serbian when they played in Kosovo but expect England to get a good reception later this month.
Kosovan people like England for their role with the UN in helping them gain independence in 2008 and there are a whole generation called ‘Tony’ after ex-Prime Minister Tony Blair.
 
Word reaches this column that referee Martin Atkinson was fuming with VAR himself when Arsenal defender Sokratis had a goal ruled out against Crystal Palace last month.
Perhaps that explains why Atkinson lost faith at Everton last Sunday and left it to VAR to make several key decisions.
The Southern-based managers met last week, the Northern contingent in Manchester on Thursday and one attendee insisted they are still backing VAR, do not see it as much of a disaster as some but do want screens to be used - and have told refs’ boss Mike Riley as such.
