
# IRDAI stops Reliance Health Insurance from selling policies

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:41:19+00:00**

Author: **Rachel Chitra**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/irdai-stops-reliance-health-insurance-from-selling-insurance/articleshow/71952171.cms)

MUMBAI: IRDAI on Thursday stopped Reliance Health Insurance Co (RHICL) from selling insurance. Going forward, the company will only able to service its old policies.
Reliance Health Insurance Co is part of Anil Ambani's Reliance Group, which has been facing serious liquidity issues.
The regulator said that the company's solvency margins -- the funds it has set aside to meet future claims from its policyholders -- had dipped to concerning levels.
"Reliance Health Insurance Company (RHICL) which commenced operations in October, 2018 has not been able to maintain the required solvency margin since June, 2019. After it came to the knowledge of IRDAI in the later part of August, 2019, a direction was issued to RHICL to restore the required level of solvency margin within a period of one month, said IRDAI in its press release.
IRDAI said the company had not complied with its instructions. "Despite repeated follow up, the insurer did not improve its capital. Thereafter, the insurer was issued a show cause notice and given another opportunity to present its case. As there has been no improvement but further deterioration in the financial position of RHICL, in order to protect the policyholders’ interests," said the regulator,
IRDAI has also issued directions to Reliance Health to transfer the entire policyholders’ liabilities along with financial assets to sister concern Reliance General Insurance Co. Ltd (RGICL) with effect from November 15, 2019. Till that time, RHICL has been prohibited from using its assets for any payment other than claim settlement.
"It is estimated that the underlying assets are sufficient to meet the claims of the existing policyholders that may arise in future," said the regulator.
Reliance General Insurance has been directed to service the claims of the Reliance Health Insurance policyholders promptly and efficiently with effect from November 15, 2019. IRDAI said it will be closely monitoring the situation to ensure smooth transfer of the portfolio, settlement of claims and protection of the interest of the policyholders.
In so far as policyholders of Reliance Health are concerned, the Authority said it would like to assure them that all their interests have been adequately protected "and all genuine claims will continue to be duly honored."
Group company Reliance Capital in May saw Care Ratings had downgraded the company to just two notches above junk status over its looming debt. Reliance Capital then that it would raise Rs 10,000 crore ($1.42 billion) from sale of assets towards meeting current liquidity issues and for future growth.
