
# Black Friday gaming chair deals 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:46:09+00:00**

Author: **Rob Dwiar**

Original: [PC Gamer](https://www.pcgamer.com/black-friday-gaming-chair-deals/)

The top offers over sale season will probably be laptops, pre-builts, and monitors, but spare a thought for Black Friday gaming chair deals as well this November. It's the perfect chance to grab some of the best gaming chairs at a discount price, and they're sure to sell out as quickly as they appear. That's particularly handy because good gaming seats can set you back hundreds of dollars or pounds, and they are a worthwhile purchase because of the difference they can make to your overall comfort. Yes, I know that sounds thoroughly beige and grown-up. But the truth is, you may as well be cosy if you're going to be sat on something for hours on end.
Regardless of whether you make the most of a Black Friday gaming chair offer or not, it's absolutely worth your while looking out for a seat in the long term. They're an investment; although it may take some adjusting to make your purchase suit you, superior padding and lumbar support really do make a difference in improving your posture. This is a godsend if you don't fancy having backache after hours spent hunched over a keyboard (no matter whether you're using the best gaming laptops or best gaming PCs, for that matter). And, you know, they look cool as well. So there's that.
One more thing; as you've probably guessed, this page is all about getting you the best possible deal on Black Friday gaming chairs. We'll update it regularly with the lowest prices as a result, so be sure to check back in every now and then to see if you can't find a bargain.
(Image credit: Noblechairs, Secretlab)
Best gaming chairSwot up on all things gaming chair with our guide before you dive into the deals this November.
Even though actual Black Friday is not until November 29—yup, put it in your calendar already—we reckon that Black Friday gaming chair deals will start flying about the place long before we get to that day and date. 
We have seen prices begin to be pulled down in the couple of weeks preceding the big day as part of 'early Black Friday deals', so it'll be worth your while keeping your ears to the internet from about Friday November 15 (ish). At the other end of the spectrum, the Black Friday gaming chair deals will probably run well into December and onto Christmas. And remember Cyber Monday is occurring on December 2, so you'll find deals ploughing on into Advent and basically continuing without pause until Christmas time—which will then themselves run into the January sales. Woo. 
Generally, in terms of when to actually pull the trigger, you're best bet is to wait until Black Friday itself to give yourself the best chance of a mega deal. But from then on, and particularly as we go over into Cyber Monday and into early December, don't hang about. Grab whatever saves you the most and gets you the best product.
If your current chair is in a total state, or if you don't want to hang around until the Black Friday gaming chair deals roll in themselves, there are some offers out in the wild right now. We've rounded up the best ones so you can weigh up whether to pull the trigger now, or hope the price of your favorites come down during Black Friday itself.
The trickiest bit about Black Friday is the sheer weight of offers available to you—there's almost too much choice, and every single online retailer is shouting about their discounts. Because it can be hard to cut through that noise and sort good reductions from overpriced rubbish, we've got a few tips to help you save money.
1. Draw up a shortlist in advanceIn the first instance, we'd recommend checking out our list of good gaming chairs if you haven't already. It's a detailed but easy-to-understand rundown of all the best seats on the market right now and why they're worth your time. This will help point you in the right direction; single out any that appeal to you and keep an eye on their Amazon/Walmart/Best Buy (etc) listings over Black Friday. That'll stop you from becoming overwhelmed. Handily, our guide lists the best prices right there on the page to save you time as well as money.
2. Keep a couple of price comparison sites bookmarkedAlthough the team at PC Gamer will bring you every bargain, discount, and offer we can, it's worth keeping tabs on some price comparison sites too. These will help you figure out if a deal is actually any good. For example, the likes of CamelCamelCamel can fill you in on a gaming chair's price history by giving its average price and lowest/highest cost. Just don't fixate too much on getting the 'lowest ever price'—it may not happen during Black Friday, and if you wait too long the gaming chair you wanted could jump back up to full price.
3. Always be prepared to be surprisedNo-one can ever be sure what offer is coming around the corner, so stay on your toes and be ready to act fast. A bargain could pop up at any moment, and you can be sure the best ones will sell out quickly. In other words, check in with the product you want (and this page, for that matter) regularly.
Naturally they aren't available now, but last year's Black Friday gaming chair deals will offer great points of reference and an idea of what specific offers could come around this year. Below are a few from across the price spectrum to represent what was going on last year. Expect a huge variety this time around, perhaps with similar price cuts.

        Some online stores give us a small cut if you buy something through one of our links. Read our 
        
          affiliate policy
        
         for more info.
      
Black Friday dealsWant the cheapest gear and the best discounts? Our Black Friday hub is where you'll find them. It'll host the hottest discounts, including Black Friday gaming laptop offers.View Deal
Costway ergonomic gaming chair | $125 at Walmart (save $175)This is a sturdy racing-style chair that comes with an additional, retractable foot rest. It's offering incredible value.View Deal
Vitesse Gaming Office Chair w/ Carbon Fiber | $95 at Newegg (55% off)Vitesse is a well-known and respected chair manufacturer, and this deep discount on their mainstay gaming chair is a great bargain. If you don't fancy the red and black look, there's other colors you can choose from at relatively similar costs.View Deal

        
          
            E-WIN Flash XL Series | $274 at Newegg (61% off)
          
        
        This chair is normally a whopping $700, so at 61% off it's definitely worth considering. The Flash XL Series is so big it's more of a throne, but that extra size means it's extra comfortable and highly adjustable.
        View Deal
      

        
          
            EXCLUSIVE OFFER: Secretlab NeueChair | $549 at Secretlab (21% off)
          
        
        We've partnered with Secretlab, one of the best chair manufacturers, to offer an exclusive $10 off coupon for their new NeueChair, which is already discounted by $150. Use the code FutureExclusive10 at checkout to get the extra $10 off.
        View Deal
      
