
# Royal Marines top brass slams US Marine Corps-style overhaul of UK corps

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:18:47+00:00**

Author: **Martin Freeman**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/local-news/former-royal-marines-officer-concerned-3502060)

A former senior Royal Marines officer has expressed his concerns over a proposed radical shake-up of the corps.
Major General Julian Thompson said a reported plan to change the system of ranks to match the navy instead of the army could lead to confusion if implemented. He also cautioned against any over-specialisation that could change the Royal Marines’ “unique characteristic”.
“What has sustained the Royal Marines through my lifetime is that they march to the sound of gunfire. When I joined the Royal Marines were operating in Malaya and they have been able to operate in every battle since,” said Maj Gen Thompson, who led 3 Commando Brigade during the Falklands War.
“Their unique character is that they are able to operate in all types of landscape and conditions. What we do not want is to change that so they have to say, ‘no, we can’t do that’.”
He was speaking as the Royal Marines’ role is under complete review in a modernisation programme with only the Green Beret and badge said to be not up for change.
Reports have suggested that the Royal Marines are to return to their maritime roots, and be able deploy in smaller groups to conduct special operations.
 The plan is said to have been inspired by changes happening within the US Marine Corps. The proposed change in titles is understood to apply to the highest ranks
Following concerns that the retirement last year of HMS Ocean, the Navy’s biggest assault ship, undermined the UK’s amphibious war-fighting ability, the Ministry of Defence has committed £5 million on littoral ships – converted civilian ferries that would carry commandos and helicopters.
In a speech to the Defence and Security Equipment International in September, Major Gen Matt Holmes, the Commandant General of the Royal Marines said: “The scale and ambition of our transformation is significant. Nothing is off-limits and we aspire to be at the cutting edge of defence.”
Maj Gen Thompson said he had not discussed any possible changes with Major Gen Holmes, who would have “very good reasons” for the thorough review.
“I am concerned by the idea that ranks could be changed,” said Maj Gen Thompson. “That could lead to confusion, especially when working with the US Marines. The Royal Marines have always been distinctly different from the Royal Navy. I suspect that the suggestion has come from outside the Royal Marines.”
A Royal Navy spokesperson said: “The Royal Marines are a distinct but integral part of the Royal Navy and work is ongoing to reinforce their role as an effective maritime fighting force.
“The Future Commando Force will harness cutting edge technology to be an effective maritime infantry force using innovative, potent, elite fighting capability. They are and will remain a distinct but integral part of the Naval Service.
“There are no plans to change anything that denotes the strong history and identity of the Royal Marines, including the Green Beret.”
