
# The Highest-Paid Coaches In England Revealed

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:16:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/the-highest-paid-coaches-in-england-revealed/666493)

Liverpool are the current UEFA Champions League holders and also lead the Premier League table, but Jurgen Klopp reportedly still earns less than Manchester United's Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. Here are top-earning managers in England!

        
          Click through the gallery above to see the highest-paid managers in England, and what they earn annually, according to The Sun!
        
      
The Reds boss has transformed the club into a European superpower since taking over in 2015, and his current deal only expires in 2022.
However, after leading the Merseysiders to their sixth UCL trophy, Klopp could very well ask for an improved contract, with his current deal said to be worth £7 million (R136 million) annually.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies! 
        
      
He is in fourth position among the top-earning coaches in England, with only Pep Guardiola, Mauricio Pochettino and Solskjaer pocketing more, according to The Sun.
The United coach receives £7.5 million (R145 million) a year at Old Trafford, while Pochettino receives £8.5 million (R165 million) annually at Tottenham Hotspur.
Guardiola, meanwhile, is the highest-earning manager in England, with Manchester City paying him a whopping £20 million (R387 million) a year.

        
          Read: The Highest-Paid Young Players In Football Today
        
      
Frank Lampard, Unai Emery and Gareth Southgate are also among the top-earning bosses in England – you can see the full list in the gallery above!
