
# Munster Confirm 'Advanced Discussions' Taking Place For Springboks Duo

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:11:33+00:00**

Author: **Sean McMahon**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/rugby/smcmahon/munster-confirm-advanced-discussions-taking-place-for-springboks-duo/)


        Munster have confirmed that they are in advanced discussions with Springboks duo Damian de Allende and RG Snyman over a potential move to the southern province.
      
De Allende and Snyman are currently celebrating their World Cup victory after they overcame England in the final on Sunday.
It was widely reported on Monday that Munster have signed the duo on two-year contracts which will begin ahead of the 2020/2021 season.
The southern province have now addressed these reports in the media with head coach Johann van Graan revealing that a deal isn’t done yet but that they are in advanced discussions with the players.
“We are in advanced discussions with both players, but there are no contracts signed at this stage,” van Graan said.
“We are confident there will be a commitment in the future, subject to conditions, but at this stage, no contracts have been signed and we have nothing official to confirm.”
Munster are currently preparing for their Guinness PRO14 interprovincial clash with Ulster at Thomond Park on Saturday.
Their international contingent have now returned to training at their base at the University of Limerick and the southern province have confirmed that Joey Carbery is still rehabbing an ankle injury which he originally suffered in the warm-up victory over Italy in August.
In other injury news, Alex Wootton will follow the return-to-play protocols after being removed with a head injury in Saturday night’s win over the Cardiff Blues while Darren Sweetnam is currently recovering from a hamstring injury which he suffered in training.
Prop Ciaran Parker continues his rehab from a calf injury.
