
# Scotland U21s coach Scot Gemmill reveals he's banned own kids from heading the ball

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Waddell, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gordon-waddell/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/scotland-u21s-coach-scot-gemmill-20798690)

Scotland under-21 manager Scot Gemmill revealed he won’t allow his own kids to head the ball as he backed the Scottish FA’s bid to ban it for players under 12.
The Sunday Mail told last week how the national sport’s governing body was leading from the front in Europe to safeguard children after a landmark study finally revealed a causal link between the professional game and dementia.
With players now shown to be three-and-a-half times more likely to die from the disease, calls have been made for more research into the effects of young players heading the ball at early ages.
Gemmill – son of Scotland World Cup legend Archie – insists as both a parent and a coach he’s proud of the SFA’s pro-active stance until there’s conclusive evidence to show it has no detrimental effect on a young person’s development.
The 48-year-old – who has mentored all of Scotland’s national teams from the age of 15 up – admitted he had played through concussions himself in a 500-game, 26-cap career mostly spent in England’s top flight.
And it’s why he’s now refusing to put his own sons – aged eight and four – at risk, even in his own back garden.
He said: “This is the human element, not the technical or the coaching side.
“I’m a dad, I have two boys, they’re both being brought up the same way I was – with a ball permanently around them. But I’m just not comfortable with them heading the ball. I won’t let them do it.
“As a parent, I’m instinctively over-protective of them in everyday life anyway – I maybe need to relax that a bit – but I’m also honest enough to say that reading the recent study, seeing the headlines, watching the news, then playing football with my kids, I’m discouraging it.
“We were playing a game of crossing and finishing in the garden last week and it was great fun. My oldest one then says, ‘Right, Dad, headers now.’
“And I went and switched the ball for a lightweight one, like a balloon, and he was like, ‘No…’ But knowing what we all know now, I just won’t do it.
 So what the Scottish FA has done, while I know it’ll divide opinion, I’m actually very proud that they’re being proactive and in the vanguard of trying to move this discussion forward.
“It’s hugely important and there’s a lot more research to be done.
“Ask yourself what we all want for our children and the first thing any parent will say is for them to be safe. And until we know it is? I get the issues. I get how hard it is to police but it’s the right step.”
We revealed that the SFA’s president Rod Petrie had ordered that an under-12 ban be considered by the game’s ruling body.
Then, on Thursday, the Scottish Youth Football Association followed suit and issued an edict to stop all heading in training and games for under-11s.
Gemmill acknowledges the irony in his own fears for his kids compared to his father’s determination for him to be more robust as a player.
And he remembers Archie’s pride the day he finally “came of age” more than 30 years ago.
He recalled: “The fact it’s so clear to me, despite how long ago it was, tells you there are maybe a few layers to this story. It was for Nottingham Forest reserves, away to Chesterfield reserves.
They had a guy called Kevin Francis playing for them, who was 6ft 7in.
“My dad was coaching our team and throughout my career he always questioned my physicality as a young player. And I remember this day, a long ball hanging there, three or four of us – including Kevin Francis – all went up for it and I won the header.
“Now my dad was never one to give compliments – he was a man of his generation. I could score goals, dominate a game, and I wouldn’t hear a peep or praise from him. But I’ll never forget after that game he beamed, ‘What about that header you won?’
“It’s ironic, really, considering what we’ve learned since.”
Gemmill built his career on being a classy, ball-playing midfielder and was rarely expected to attack the ball with his head, especially by legendary Forest boss Brian Clough, who famously said: “If God had wanted us to play football in the air, he’d have put grass in the sky.”
But Gemmill admitted: “I remember clashing heads in training, being knocked unconscious, waking up in hospital later that day and thinking it was a day later. Vomiting and having serious concussions.
“I remember as a child visiting my dad in hospital after he’d fractured his skull in training. But the difference in those days was there were no protocols. You were right back in.
“Now the reality of that hits home. I played against Eddie Newton of Chelsea and he broke my nose in a challenge – you can still see the aftermath to this day. That was a Wednesday night. I was concussed. But I played on the Saturday.
“So, like everyone else of my generation, despite not being a centre half or maybe heading the ball too often, you wonder what price everyone is paying?”
Football has seen some of its greatest heroes diminished by the cruelty of an unremitting disease. Celtic captain Billy McNeill, Dundee United legend Frank Kopel, former England striker Jeff Astle – all victims.
The death of Spurs legend Danny Blanchflower to Alzheimer’s in 1993 was recorded as “death by industrial injury”.
 
Now other players are stepping forward to talk about their own battles, Gemmill insists that prevention has to come to the fore, while there is no known cure.
He warned: “It’s an incredibly difficult and nuanced debate but it’s one we need to have. If we’ve established so clearly footballers, in particular, are so much more likely to die from Alzheimer’s and dementia, then by definition we need to examine the root causes.
“It’s impossible to eradicate heading from the game but we can certainly become more educated.
“Coming of age is maybe the wrong term but let’s use it for now – think about a young player, the first time that corner comes in and they really go and attack the ball with the head, powerfully get up against your man and win the header.
“It’s almost a rite of passage in your development – and if they don’t do it, they won’t progress because being able to defend and attack set-pieces and deal with goal kicks and long balls, as a young player, they’re hurdles in front of you to be overcome.
“But I don’t know what the magic age is where we actually say it’s OK – under 14, 15, 16? – but until we do know, we have a responsibility to our children.
“I hope Fifa and Uefa examine it. If we’ve shown the link between the professional game and dementia and Alzheimer’s is irrefutable, surely we have to establish with kids whether there’s any kind of impact trauma or long-term damage from them heading the ball, then safeguard against it.
“Once we’ve established that, we’re still going to have to coach it but I can see the day when it gets to whatever the age is, you may well find that parents have to sign a waiver to let their kids do it.”
