
# What happens now for England Rugby?

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:46:49+00:00**

Author: **Conor Wilson**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/what-happens-now-for-england-rugby)


        “I tell you what happens to teams – they evolve. Some guys will lose desire, some guys will lose fitness, some guys will get injuries and there’ll be young guys come through. So, this team is finished now. There will be a new team made, we’ll make a team for the Six Nations, and that new team for the Six Nations will be the basis of going to the next World Cup. – Eddie Jones
      
Firstly, before we start, I’d like to give my full congratulations to South Africa on a splendid performance, and you take the William Web Ellis back home as worthy winners. The game plan put in place by the Boks was simple, but it provided a stark lesson to England. You only need to do a few things very well to win a test match, and South Africa’s focus on their set-piece, defence, and kicking was a masterclass in tactical nous. Well done to the Boks and well done to Rassie Erasmus.
Now to England.
On a personal note, I want to say before we start, that I’m incredibly proud of my team. They have worked their asses off over this campaign and we know it. Whilst they didn’t make the final hurdle this year, they’ve gone from pool stage humiliation to one of the top teams in the world, and who we know can beat anyone on their day. They have a constant desire to get better, have been brilliant ambassadors for our country, and I’m sure will continue to represent us well in the years going forward. They also are aware, even before the final, that they need to improve.
Today, we’re going to look into these areas that Eddie Jones will look to improve over the next cycle, and how going into the RWC 2023, they won’t suffer the same problems again.

        Click here to see the video
      

        Areas of Improvement
      

        
           
          Leadership
        
      
England for me did not show half the emotional energy, tactical clarity, or technical ability that they did in the prior week, and they needed it. When Warren Gatland said we may have already played our final, he had a point. This want, was for me down to three reasons.
The problem is that England never took the game. Even when the momentum swung their way, England did not put their foot on the throat and keep it there. When on the South African line after 25 phases, all England needed to do was pick and go, work the blind, bait the offside and wait for the try. They were getting closer, and a try then would have changed the entire outlook of the game. Not to mention it would have further pressured the referee to give a card for continued South African infringements. Yet England moved it wide when it wasn’t on and in doing so released the pressure cooker.
The third point here, in particular, led to England being on the back foot, which mirrors a performance of 16 years ago. The key difference then, was England took the game, and won.
