
# ‘Infra trap’ seen behind weak PHL trade data

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:32:57+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/07/infra-trap-seen-behind-weak-phl-trade-data/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
The Philippines may already be caught in an “infrastructure trap” with low average capacity utilization in many government projects, according to economists.
This is already creeping into the country’s external trade, with both imports and exports posting contractions in September.
Data from the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) showed exports contracted 2.6 percent, the lowest since January 2019 and imports declined 10.5 percent, the lowest since April 2015.
“I think [this is already an] infrastructure trap. We need to move fast and finish many of these projects,” Ateneo Center for Economic Research and Development (Acerd) Director Alvin P. Ang told the BusinessMirror.“Imports of capital goods likely slowed, so it’s possible that GDP growth will also be low when they announce it tomorrow [Thursday],” he added.
Ang said the slowdown in both exports and imports reflect the weakness in the investment environment. This is the link to the country’s infrastructure push.
While average capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector was at 84.4 percent, based on the Monthly Integrated Survey of Selected Industries (Missi), Ang said it is only a reflection of the private sector’s factory output.
Based on data from the Department of Budget and Management (DBM), infrastructure disbursements in the January-to-September period contracted 4.3 percent.
As a result, imports of capital goods only grew 0.3 percent to $2.93 billion in September 2019 from $2.92 billion in September 2018.
Economists, such as University of Asia and the Pacific School of Economics Dean Cid Terosa and BPI Lead Economist Emilio S. Neri Jr. agreed and told this newspaper that slow infrastructure spending is a factor in the country’s lackluster external trade performance.
The National Economic and Development Authority (Neda) said this is the reason the government needs to fast-track its infrastructure program.
“The government must sustain faster infrastructure spending in the fourth quarter to achieve the target disbursement performance for the year,” according to Socioeconomic Planning Secretary Ernesto M. Pernia. “The push for high impact and imple-mentable infrastructure projects under the ‘Build, Build, Build’ program is expected to improve transport and logistics, which are crucial in supporting the growth of exports,” he added.
Pernia added that the timely passage of the proposed 2020 national budget is important to sustain the implementation of construction-related projects and activities.
Meanwhile, the more obvious reason for the decline in both imports and exports was the US-China trade war, according to economists and Neda.
This is particularly evident in the 7.1-percent contraction in September electronic imports and nearly flat growth of only 0.1 percent in the January-to-September period.
In terms of exports, PSA data showed electronic products only grew 3.8 percent in September and 2.2 percent in the January-to-September period.
“This highly suggests that Philippine trade continues to be impacted by the protracted US-China trade conflict, and import performance, particularly, has not picked up yet with the government’s supposed spending catchup,” a UnionBank Economic Research note stated. Neda said the country’s export performance in September was dragged by the decline in manufactured goods and mineral products.
The oversight agency lamented that the positive performance in major markets, such as Japan, China, Korea and Hong Kong, failed to offset the slide in earnings from the US, Asean and the European Union.
In terms of imports, Neda said the decline was due to steep declines in raw materials and intermediate goods. This brings the three-month moving average growth rate of exports and imports for September 2019, to 0.6 percent and -7.8 percent, respectively.
Pernia said the trade tensions have escalated beyond tariffs as the US blacklisted certain companies and imposed visa restrictions on Chinese officials.
The far-reaching and widespread cost of the trade war also finds its spotlight in the latest IMF World Economic Outlook, which estimates a near standstill in trade growth and a slowdown in growth in nearly 90 percent of the world.
“Despite the overall decline in export performance, our export trade to Korea posted double-digit growth rate for the third consecutive month and exports to Japan showed a significant turnaround from a decline in the previous period,” Pernia said. He added “These export bright spots will pave the way for the country’s trade recovery over the near term.”
Data from the PSA showed exports to Japan accounted for the highest value of $957.06 million, or a share of 16.2 percent to the total exports in September 2019.
Exports to this country grew by 19.1 percent, from $803.9 million in September 2018. Other major export trading partners were US, $904.15 million; Hong Kong, $868.59 million; People’s Republic of China, $780.24 million; and Republic of Korea, $329.43 million.
China was the country’s biggest supplier of imported goods with 23.6-percent share of the total imports in September 2019. Import payments from that country amounted to $2.13 billion, from $1.95 billion in September 2018.  Other major import trading partners were Japan, $831.88 million; the US, $643.50 million;  Republic of Korea, $626.21; and Thailand, $621.31 million.
