
# Poly Delivers A Full House Device Portfolio For Microsoft Teams At Ignite

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ed Ellett**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/moorinsights/2019/11/07/poly-delivers-a-full-house-device-portfolio-for-microsoft-teams/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

The Microsoft Ignite 2019 conference took place this week in Orlando, Florida. The annual event is an occasion for Microsoft, its partners, developers and IT professional customers to all come together and see the latest solutions from the tech giant. As a unified communications and collaboration (UC&C) industry veteran and former CEO, I wanted to share my findings and perspective on the Poly announcements from the event.Situation Analysis
Poly has been a solution provider and partner with Microsoft for over 15 years, dating back to the Polycom(PictureTel) iPower and ViaVideo systems. Microsoft acquired Skype back in the 2011 timeframe. At that time, Skype was a pioneer and overwhelming leader in internet-based voice/video/messaging communications. Since then, there have been multiple iterations of Skype, with evolutionary improvements. Skype functionality now is included in Microsoft’s Teams collaboration solution. This partnership and legacy make Poly and Microsoft natural partners delivering optimized customer experiences (CX) for UC&C.
Microsoft Teams is propelling teamwork and collaboration in the digital transformation era to a whole new level. It creates a common workspace for real-time collaboration, including voice/video communication, messaging (chat), online meetings and file and app sharing, all in one place accessible to all team members. To get the picture, think about a single software application that creates an workflow environment where all team members can see common collections of files, calendars, schedules, specifications and status reports, and can communicate instantly with each other via email, chat, voice or video. Everyone is updated on all changes simultaneously regardless of their physical location. To configure a complete voice/video communication solution for Microsoft Teams, Poly offers a comprehensive device portfolio. See Figure 1 for the proof-point and a summary view.

        Product Updates
      
At the beginning of the Microsoft Ignite conference, Poly announced numerous updates to its portfolio for Microsoft Teams users. The summary of the updates follows:

        Wrapping up
      
Combining new thought-leadership collaboration applications such as Microsoft Teams with Poly’s comprehensive audio/video endpoints and services creates a CX unlike any other. Reflecting on these recent updates and the current state of the UC&C market, I updated Table 1 below summarizing my thoughts relative to Poly’s current standing.
Over the past few years, the Poly video endpoint solutions had fallen back slightly from market requirements. The Poly leadership and product teams are rapidly updating and refreshing the endpoint products with meaningful customer features for the company’s entire portfolio. The Poly Studio family of endpoints and the rich selection of voice endpoint devices are very compelling solutions, especially in these native-ready modes of plug-in and ready-to-go. The UC&C endpoint market is larger than any time in history, bringing a large opportunity for device solution providers such as Poly. Creative and innovative solutions are a strength for Poly, and businesses ranging in size from SME to Global 500 will benefit from Poly’s “Full House” portfolio of Microsoft Teams-ready solutions. 

        
          Disclosure:
        
         Moor Insights & Strategy, like all research and analyst firms, provides or has provided research, analysis, advising and/or consulting to many high-tech companies in the industry, including Microsoft. The author does not have any investment positions in any of the companies named in this article.
      
