
# Photos: Kriti Kharbanda raises the temperature in her sexy red crop-top

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:31:41+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/photos-kriti-kharbanda-raises-the-temperature-in-her-sexy-red-crop-top/articleshow/71950905.cms)

Bollywood's newest find, Kriti Kharbanda has already made it to the hearts of the audience with utter ease. Currently basking in the success of her recently released 'Housefull 4', the actress has already started promoting her yet another upcoming comedy-drama 'Pagalpanti'. Kriti will be seen sharing the screen space with her rumoured boyfriend Pulkit Samrat.
While she is busy with her upcoming films, Kriti makes sure she frequently stuns her millions of followers on her social media handles with her sizzling pictures. Known for her glamorous looks, Kriti rocks every outfit she dons. Just a while ago, the actress shared a couple of her sizzling hot pictures on her social media handles.
Donning a bright red crop top and plazo of the same colour, Kriti looks sensual in her latest Instagram pictures. The actress complimented her looks with a pair of beautiful round earrings while allowing the wind to pass through her hair. Kriti pretty sure knows how to keep the hearts racing of her millions of followers.
Pic credit: Kriti Kharbanda Instagram
Meanwhile, on the professional front, Kriti will be next seen in 'Pagalpanti' starring alongside John Abraham, Ileana D'Cruz, Anil Kapoor, Arshad Warsi, Pulkit Samrat, Kriti Kharbanda, Saurabh Shukla among others in significant roles. Helmed by Anees Bazmee, the film hits the screens on November 22.

        Facebook
        Twitter
        Pintrest
      
