
# NAPOLCOM to hear ninja cops charges; no case against Albayalde

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:25:11+00:00**

Author: **Joel dela Torre**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/napolcom-hear-ninja-cops-charges-no-case-against-albayalde)

DILG Secretary Eduardo Año, who is also NAPOLCOM chairman, said that the filing of new administrative cases against the “ninja cops” is in light of the new evidence gathered by the joint DILG-Napolcom review committee as well as those that came out in the Senate investigation.
He said that the summary dismissal proceedings against respondents can be completed within 45 days without violating their right to due process.
In the meantime, the 13 cops will be placed under restrictive custody in Camp Crame pending the resolution of their cases.
As to former PNP Chief Gen Oscar Albayalde, the joint DILG-PNP review committee chaired by Vice Chairman Rogelio Casurao and USec. Bernardo Florece, Jr. found no substantial evidence to warrant an administrative case against him.
Año said that Albayalde was liable for command responsibility that’s why he was relieved as Pampanga Provincial director in 2014.
And since he already relinquished his post as Chief PNP, the DILG chief said the former country’s top cop can no longer be relieved of his position at this time.
“Moreover, the President has given his guidance to the DILG to pursue the administrative cases against the 13 ninja cops which we have already started. For the criminal cases against Albayalde et. al., he leaves it to the Department of Justice and the Office of the Ombudsman,” he added.
DILG Undersecretary and spokesperson Jonathan Malaya said that the 13 “ninja cops” will be charged with serious irregularity in the performance of duty for the mishandling of confiscated drugs and instruments.
They are also accused of failure to immediately mark, conduct physical inventory and photograph the illegal drugs and other evidence after seizure and confiscation in the presence of the persons from whom the drugs were confiscated thereby compromising the integrity and evidentiary value of the confiscated drugs.
Respondents will also face dishonesty charges for making untruthful statements in their affidavits of direct participation, grave misconduct for giving false testimony against the accused and making untruthful statements when they testified under oath during the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee hearing.
