
# Osasuna film festival offers players a view to a thrill and unique bond

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:19:00+00:00**

Author: **Sid Lowe**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2019/nov/04/osasuna-la-liga-return)


        With not much money but spirit to burn, the club are using footage of fan power to drive their La Liga return
      
Back in the summer, when the recently promoted Osasuna were building a squad for their return to La Liga, they sent videos to the players they were trying to persuade to join them. They did not have much money – only three teams have a smaller budget – and they did not have success to sell, either: the second division title is the only thing they have won and they had just done that for the first time in 58 years. But they could offer something different.
When the tapes went out, sales pitches carefully edited in-house, they were not filled with 101 great goals, superb saves or glorious games. Instead they were packed with people. The footage was not of footballers; it was of fans. It was who they are.
Osasuna sold El Sadar – the place that can feel like the one, last old ground left even though, opened in 1967, it is not that old. It is a ground where the main stand is so steep, so tight that you feel as if you will tumble on to the pitch below. Punk is played at half-time and fans reach out and touch you, legs dangling over the barriers, banging the drum, flags waving, noise never letting up, team never letting up either.
It is the kind of place you would want to play – if, that is, you are the kind of player they would want playing for them. And Ezequiel “Chimy” Ávila was exactly the kind of player they wanted playing for them: the striker with big thighs and an even bigger heart whom the sporting director, Braulio Vázquez, introduced as “born to play for Osasuna”. First, though, he had to convince Chimy of that.
Chimy was not the only footballer sent footage – Pervis Estupiñán and Facundo Roncaglia were also among the seven players signed – but he is the new signing who best represents Osasuna’s plans, the identity they were celebrating and reinforcing.
“Our fans are our greatest asset. We don’t have much money or the talent other teams have but we have them. You have to make players see it’s a special place,” Braulio says. “We wanted them to know where they were coming. Here in Pamplona players are God. We sent videos of the fans, how they’re on top of everyone, how they react, how they celebrate. And they really liked them.
“We had to conquer his heart; there’s an emotional element to it. I said to Chimy: ‘Imagine the whole of El Sadar chanting: Chimy! Chimy!’ He laughed at that: ‘I can see it already!’ He had other offers but this was the place for him. I told him maybe at Betis, say, the fans like a nutmeg more but here, if you sprint back 50 metres, kill yourself to defend, you’re an idol. At some clubs you might get whistled but, when he missed a sitter against Villarreal, they were all: ‘Chimy! Chimy!’ And then he scores a brilliant goal.”
By then Chimy knew. At his presentation he already knew. The tapes did the trick. “This is a club where I feel people will love me,” he said back then and he was right.
Now an idol in the city and in a team that have played even better than anyone imagined, he says: “When Braulio sent me the video of them celebrating promotion, it was emotional seeing the fans. That really got me. And being able to experience it for myself is lovely. That’s why I took the decision to come and I’m happy I did.” At his presentation Chimy promised: “Their style’s mine: run, crash into people, never give up,” and that starts in the stands.
There is a reason that Osasuna won 17 home games in a row on their way to the second division title last year and did not lose at El Sadar all season. “I don’t think it’s an exaggeration to say there were eight games we won because of the fans,” says the striker Brandon Thomas. “That’s what this club is.”
As the captain, Roberto Torres, told El País: “In that sense I think Osasuna genuinely is a bit different. Here, unlike other places, fans support Osasuna, not Madrid or Barcelona. Tradition has been lost a bit, the essence of football. Few care about the fans, when they are what really matters. El Sadar’s always been a slightly more ‘English’ ground. They used to say big teams feared coming.”
Now they do again. Barcelona drew 2-2 there and Valencia were hammered 3- 1, but this is more than just a couple of games and more than fans making a lot of noise or a team being good at home. It is that – as the manager, Jagoba Arrasate, put it on Sunday night after their 4-2 victory against Alavés – they are “binomial”. Fans and footballers go “hand in hand”. Game and ground are inseparable. This team belong in this place; it is this place. Arrasate understands that best. The idea was there but he is the one who fully re‑established that relationship when he took over before last season . . . play constructed around the people, their personality.
“From the start he wanted to recover that traditional identity, to go for it,” says the winger Rubén GarcÌa, superb last season and this campaign. “He told everyone there has to be a communion. With every run, every tackle, the fans lift you; they are the adrenaline you need.”
Osasuna play as if someone has cut their brake cables and it is much better that way. At home, at least, they go, go, go and then, when they have their breath back or even if they have not, they go again. They isolate opponents and chase them down, terrified. When they get the ball, it is much the same. It is relentless; every pass played with intent, going for the throat, every move played as if it was the last, time running out.
On Sunday night a wild game finished 4-2 and the fact there were three penalties and endless stoppages for VAR – El Sadar is one of the few places to make them fun, drum rolls building to the decision – took nothing from a match one paper called “blessed madness”.
Rubén García scored the first, Chimy swept in an exceptional second, first time on the bounce, and Víctor Laguardia got one back for Alavés a minute later with a finish almost as good: another half-volley, hit superbly. Torres made it 3-1 six minutes into additional time at the end of the first half and Lucas Pérez brought it back to 3-2 with another penalty, before a third from Juan Villar made it 4-2. They had been playing 55 minutes and there had been six goals but, though there were no more, it was not over. In fact, it was getting better.
The afternoon had started with García forcing a save from Fernando Pacheco after 20 seconds and ended with Inigo Pérez smashing off the post in added time, just as Nacho Vidal had hammered off the bar. In the meantime Alavés had 12 shots and Osasuna racked up 19 to go with the 30 against Valencia.
“Our games are anything but dull,” Braulio says. “You’re winning 4-2 but at the end, you’ve got one full-back crossing for the other.” Osasuna are, he says, like Liverpool; Arrasate is the Spanish Jürgen Klopp. “There’s a big difference, eh,” he adds swiftly, laughing, but there is something in it. “People have fun watching us. It’s the rhythm, the speed, the intensity. We’re very vertical. It’s all very back and forth. But it’s not just that we run and put a foot in. We play, too. Rubén García, Roberto Torres, Chimy, Fran Mérida: they can all play. The full-backs are like airplanes.”
The fans, meanwhile, are like players. “This is a team that’s brave, that takes the initiative but, bloody hell, behind it are the fans,” Arrasate says. “They make you feel almost invincible.”
They almost are. There is a slight cheat, an asterisk – among their victories is last season’s forfeited match against Reus – but Arrasate has never been beaten at home as Osasuna manager and this was their 31st game in a row without defeat there: four in 2017-18, 21 last season, and six this. Eibar, Barcelona, Betis, Villarreal, Valencia and Alavés have all been now; none won. The run goes back 582 days, to April 2018, and it brought Osasuna up, put them three points off a Champions League place and secured 18 primera points, almost halfway to survival already: 31 is a record, beating the previous best set 61 years ago.
The following morning at Tajonar, the club’s training ground, a man set off rockets. “Historic,” cheered the cover of El Diario de Navarra. “Oé oé oé oé oé oé,” ran the headline inside. El Sadar had become a “place of legend”, it said. At the end that place rose to applaud, their work here almost done. Players stood and applauded the supporters back.
“In this record the players will appear but so will they because, without the fans, it would be impossible,” Arrasate said and it was no empty platitude. It was their third game in a week and fatigue had crept in but they had emerged from those with seven points, two more wins at home and nine goals.
“The manager said to us before the game: ‘Today being tired is no excuse.’ As soon as the fans raise their voice you feel yourself lift; the tiredness goes,” García said afterwards. Outside some kids waited for a photo. “The record is down to them, too,” García said before heading out to join them, pulling the same silly faces as they did. “This should be the essence of football, something that could be recovered at 99.9% of clubs. And, if we’re an example here at Osasuna, it’s a good one.
“Now we’ll always be able to say we’re part of this club’s history. We’ve been talking about that in the dressing room, about how we’re all part of this, the fans especially. When they get home, they’ll talk about this too. In 20 years they’ll be able to say: ‘I was there the day of the record, I lived those 31 games.’ It’s not chance and that union means we enjoy it more. What we’ve done together is great.”
It is – so good someone should make a video of it.
