
# Finding balance between agricultural drainage and wetland preservation a challenge

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:53:13+00:00**

Author: **Lynn Giesbrecht**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/local-news/finding-balance-between-agricultural-drainage-and-wetland-preservation-a-challenge)

Accommodating both agricultural drainage and the environmental benefits of preserving wetlands is a complex balancing act, which has many involved groups saying there is no simple solution in sight.
“We want farmers to be successful. It’s important for us in society economically and everything else, but can we do that without … unchecked destruction of wetlands? And the answer is we have to,” said Jeff Olson, operating director of the Citizens Environmental Alliance.
“It’s a wicked problem. It’s very difficult to nail down and then even more difficult to solve.”
At the Agricultural Drainage and the Environment Conference held in Regina on Wednesday, Olson spoke to the importance of sparking conversations between both sides on how they could work together to find a solution. Speakers included producers, environmentalists, researchers and government officials, giving attendees a better understanding of all the pieces of the puzzle.
Pascal Badiou, a research scientist with the Institute for Wetland and Waterfowl Research, talked about the wetlands’ environmental benefits. Aside from providing an important wildlife habitat, these areas take carbon and other greenhouse gases out of the atmosphere while also acting as a neutralizer for extreme temperatures, making it an ideal way for the planet to adapt to climate change.
“They essentially act as air conditioners on the landscape … and so that helps kind of buffer against some of the climate extremes that you see. So when it’s hot, it’ll be cooler and actually when it’s cold, it’ll be a little warmer,” said Badiou in an interview.
But for crop producers, wetlands cause challenges. The land is not farmable and they may have to drive large equipment a long way around. Because of this, many producers choose to drain wetlands on their property.
This loss of wetlands and the drainage of excess water into sometimes unprepared areas causes environmental concerns — like flooding, the release of carbon stores back into the atmosphere, and water quality concerns as the drainage picks up nutrients off the land it passes over.
Badiou said that over the last 60 years, about 500,000 tonnes of carbon have been released back into the atmosphere through wetland drainage on the Prairies. Instead of seeing these negative environmental impacts, Badiou would like to see the preservation of Saskatchewan’s wetlands, but he also recognized that this cannot come at the expense of crippled agriculture.
“It would be nice if all of this was straightforward, but it’s a pretty complicated, tangled web of things that interact,” he said.
In 2015, the province’s Water Security Agency (WSA) updated its agricultural drainage regulations for the first time in more than three decades to now take the environmental impact of a drainage project into consideration before giving it approval.
The regulations are still not perfect though, said WSA spokesperson Patrick Boyle, and conversations with agricultural and environmental groups continue. Gathering people together for this type of conference pushes those conversations forward.
“We’re really working through what is that balance in working with producers and balancing that with the environment, and how do we find that spot in between that is kind of the best policy piece,” he said, noting that the end goal is to have a system of approved drainages that work together.
“That’s probably years down the road but we’re starting to get to that place.”

        lgiesbrecht@postmedia.com
      
