
# Meghan and Harry post inspirational quote on Instagram after sharing struggles

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:03:06+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/meghan-harry-post-inspirational-quote-20812875?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

Meghan Markle and Prince Harry have shared an inspirational quote about 'courage' weeks after opening up about their struggles in a documentary.
The couple posted the message on their Sussex Royal Instagram page, with the upload garnering more than 180,000 likes in seven hours.
It states: "Courage doesn't mean you don't get afraid. Courage means you don't let fear stop you."
The quote, from shark attack survivor and famous surfer Bethany Hamilton, will be seen by many as a reference to the couple's ongoing struggle to cope with royal life.
 
The pair made some frank confessions in last month's ITV documentary, including Harry speaking about his strained relationship with William and Meghan revealing her struggle to adopt the British 'stiff upper lip'.
The couple are due to appear alongside other royals this week as they get back to work after the ITV documentary.
They will attend the Field of Remembrance at Westminster Abbey on November 7, followed by the Festival of Remembrance at the Royal Albert Hall on Saturday.
Prince William and Kate Middleton will also be present at the latter event, along with the Queen, Prince Charles and Camilla.
Meghan and Harry will also participate in a Remembrance Sunday service at the Cenotaph.
In last month's documentary, Meghan revealed she could not just 'survive' public criticism and spoke about the strain she has been under.
She said: "Look, any woman especially when they are pregnant you’re really vulnerable and so that was made really challenging, and then when you have a newborn – you know.
"And especially as a woman, it’s a lot. So you add this on top of just trying to be a new mom or trying to be a newlywed it’s, well…"
The Duchess then admitted that she had been struggling in her new role.
