
# Obi-Wan Kenobi Screenwriter Says Series Will Shoot In July 2020

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:32:26+00:00**

Author: **Blair Marnell**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/471322-obi-wan-kenobi-screenwriter-says-series-will-shoot-in-july-2020)

Last summer, Ewan McGregor and Lucasfilm finally announced the Obi-Wan Kenobi series for Disney+. Shortly thereafter, The Alienist‘s Hossein Amini was announced as the screenwriter, with The Mandalorian‘s Deborah Chow set to direct. Now, Amini has revealed when the show will begin production.
“The plan is to start shooting in July,” said Hossein Amini during an interview with Discussing Film. “I think [McGregor] already said that it spans the period between Episodes III and IV. So sort of after the fall of the Republic and the massacre of the Jedi before the events of Star Wars: A New Hope. It’s fascinating in the sense that it’s a period where there is a lot of change in the galaxy and a lot of hardship.”
Amini also touched upon Kenobi’s journey in the series.
“He has a lot to adjust to given the loss of his close friends and the order that he believed in,” noted Hossein. “It felt like a really exciting opportunity to explore a different side of a franchise that I always loved. And I’ve always loved it because of its spiritual aspects as well as its fun and action elements. It seems to work on way more than one level which isn’t always true for those big franchises.”
Additionally, Amini noted that he joined the series two years ago when it was originally a Star Wars stand alone movie.
“I was initially contacted by the original director for the film version, Stephen Daldry and chatted with him,” said Amini. “It was more of a conversation than a pitch, I am incredibly gracious about it. They didn’t make it feel like an audition.”
“There is so much going on between episode 3 and 4 that hasn’t been explored,” added Amini. “The idea of being able to go into a character journey plus the politics and plus all the vastness of the Empire and what’s going on is exciting. Just because it feels like a proper period of history and sometimes that is hard to do in two hours.”
What do you think about Amini’s Obi-Wan Kenobi comments? Let us know in the comment section below!

        Recommended Reading: Star Wars: Obi-Wan and Anakin
      

        We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program. This affiliate advertising program is designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
      
