
# 'Go home disappointed' - Stoke City man on missing international reunion against West Brom

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:28:13+00:00**

Author: **Josh Murray**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/go-home-disappointed-stoke-city-17196125)

Stoke City will be without midfielder Peter Etebo for tonight's Championship clash with West Bromwich Albion - and he is frustrated to be missing an on-field reunion with international teammate Semi Ajayi.
Etebo - one of Stoke's standout players in a poor start to the season - has made 11 appearances in the League this season, but he managed only 21 minutes of the 1-0 defeat at Sheffield Wednesday last month before being forced off with a thigh injury.
That problem will keep him out against the Baggies when the teams meet at the bet365 Stadium this evening, with Slaven Bilic's side aiming to move back to the Championship summit.
Ajayi is likely to start again at the heart of the West Brom defence, while his Nigeria teammate Etebo watches on.
"I would have loved to play against him this week. We played against each other twice when he was at Rotherham and it was a draw," Etebo told Nigerian sports website Brila.net.
“I am disappointed not to be able to face him at his new club. This time, I will be there as a fan supporting my team.
“I wish him well and hope he has a good game (against Stoke), but I am sure my team will win, so he will go home disappointed with the result.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
“The few times that we play against each other, we win almost the same number of interceptions and tackles, so I would say that there is not much difference between us.”
