
# Province to fund new Calgary high school, others across Alberta

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:33:09+00:00**

Author: **Sammy Hudes**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/province-to-fund-for-new-calgary-high-school-others-across-alberta)

The UCP government pledged Friday to fund 15 new schools across the province, including a long-awaited high school in north Calgary, but some say without adequate support for teachers and other learning tools, it might just put more pressure on an already stressed education system.
Speaking in Calgary, Education Minister Adriana LaGrange said the province would commit $397 million over five years for 25 school construction projects, which includes new infrastructure and modernization work for existing facilities.
A new high school in Coventry Hills is in the cards, as well as new elementary and middle schools in Auburn Bay.
“It is important that we continue to build schools in Alberta and our government is doing just that,” said LaGrange, flanked by Infrastructure Minister Prasad Panda and Community and Social Services Minister Rajan Sawhney for the announcement.
With high school enrolment in Calgary expected to hit nearly 40,000 students by 2025, the north high school has long been anticipated. LaGrange said the school would open within two to three years, but couldn’t put a timeline on funding for future Calgary projects needed to quell concerns about overcrowded classrooms.
She said the province would continue to build schools where needed.
“Obviously, we can’t do it all in one budget, but this is an investment we’re going to continue to make on a year-to-year basis,” said LaGrange. “We’re looking to address all the hot spots as quickly as possible.”
Tamara Keller, a parent who has advocated for the new Coventry Hills high school, said area students are “desperately underserved,” having to take city buses to Crescent Heights to attend classes.
“It’s been a long time coming,” said Keller, whose sons are in Grades 6 and 8, respectively. She said she hopes the project will be finished in time for her eldest child to attend the school.
“It’s crazy that our kids are spending an hour going to and from school each way,” said Keller.
Calgary Board of Education chair Marilyn Dennis called the new high school “a critical piece of infrastructure” that will give students the opportunity to attend high school closer to home.
But she said the board is still looking to address enrolment pressures at its high schools, which “are a little more extreme than in other locations.”
The CBE is undergoing an engagement process with the goal of getting its schools to 85 per cent occupancy. The board hopes to announce its plan next October and implement it in the 2021-22 school year.
“As our enrolment continues to grow, our need for new learning spaces also continues to grow,” said Dennis. “This school will do a lot to alleviate those enrolment pressures.”
The government also committed to funding a new Catholic elementary/junior high school in Cochrane and a new junior/senior high school in Langdon.
But speaking alongside government officials, Linda Wellman, vice-chair of the Calgary Catholic School District (which oversees Catholic schools in Calgary and Rocky View County), said Friday’s announcement didn’t go far enough.
“I have some mixed feelings today because we didn’t get our number one priority within the City of Airdrie,” said Wellman, noting that a new high school is needed.
“We are getting absolutely nothing . . . to accommodate our student growth. But we are happy to take what we can get,” she said.
Last week’s provincial budget contained a funding freeze for K-12 education for the next three years, causing some to worry local school boards may be forced to cut teaching jobs.
Further efficiencies could also be necessary with the addition of new schools across the province, according to Barb Silva, spokesperson for Support Our Students which represents more than 2,000 parents.
“It comes across as a very positive announcement that we get more infrastructure, but I think when you dig deeper you realize that the funding for schools only includes the four walls and the roof,” she said, adding additional costs will fall to school boards.
“This actually means the funding gap that school boards had yesterday got bigger today. . . Now you have to try to fill schools. Who are you going to fill them with? It means kids are going to have less resources, whether that’s books, whether that’s technology, whether that’s teachers.”
NDP education critic Sarah Hoffman said adding new schools is “good news,” but agreed with Silva’s assessment surrounding resources.
“We’re seeing growing class sizes, we’re seeing less supports for students with special needs, we’re seeing longer ride times on buses,” said Hoffman.
LaGrange said it will be up to school divisions to decide whether they need to further invest in additional teachers and administrators to fill future schools, but added the government is developing a new funding and assurance model for next year designed “to address some of the concerns that are currently being placed.”
__

        The UCP government announced plans for 15 new schools across Alberta on Friday. Another 10 schools are to be replaced or modernized. These are the planned local projects:
      

        Calgary
      
• New northeast (Coventry Hills) high school, Grades 10-12, CBE
• New Auburn Bay elementary school, Grades K-4, CBE
• New Auburn Bay middle school, Grades 5-9, CBE

        Cochrane
      
• New elementary/junior high school, Grades K-9, Calgary Catholic

        Langdon
      
• Design funding for new junior/senior high school, Grades 7-12, Rocky View Schools

        Carstairs
      
• Elementary school addition, Chinook’s Edge School Division
shudes@postmedia.comOn Twitter: @SammyHudes
