
# 'A little too hot': Trump Jr. says father told him to calm down on social media amid Mueller investigation

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:43:21+00:00**

Author: **Mike Brest**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/a-little-too-hot-trump-jr-says-father-told-him-to-calm-down-on-social-media-amid-mueller-investigation)

Donald Trump Jr. claimed that both his lawyers and President Trump urged him to tone down some of his aggressiveness on social media while defending himself from accusations of Russia collusion.
The president's son was accused of colluding with the foreign power because he met in June 2016 with a Kremlin-linked lawyer who claimed to have “dirt” on Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. He addressed the meeting as well as the advice to cool down on social media in his new book Triggered, slated for a release next week.
He said, "Even my lawyers approached me and said, ‘Don, you might want to slow down on social media, maybe not be so aggressive.’ I politely declined. Shortly after that, my father — yes, my father, Donald J. Trump, our tweeter-in-chief, the so-called Shakespeare of 140 characters — told me that I might be getting ‘a little too hot’ on my social media accounts."
“I respect the heck out of my dad, and when he gives me advice I take it ninety-nine point nine percent of the time. This, however, was probably the one time I decided not to listen!” he added.
Trump Jr. also discussed how he reacted to the findings of the Mueller investigation.
“If I were ‘most people,’ this chapter might be a little different. Maybe it would open on the afternoon the Mueller Report came out. There’d be some vivid writing about how relieved I felt, how I could breathe easily for the first time in years," he said. "Or maybe there’d be scenes from right in the middle of the whole ordeal, and I’d tell you about how I’d curled up in a corner every night with a teddy bear praying that I wasn’t going to go to prison over this made-up nonsense."
