
# The matter of RCEP

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Prof Chandan Gowda**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/opinion/views/the-matter-of-rcep/articleshow/71929097.cms)

Discussion of the gains and losses in a trade agreement in mere economic terms proves inadequate. An attention to the ecological dimension lets the pros and cons assessed more sanelyI ndia’s decision to stay out of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) at the Bangkok summit two days ago saw many in the country feeling relieved. The non-desirability of India joining the RCEP though had come to make itself publicly felt only over the last couple of weeks. Large groups of farmers and dairy co-operatives protested it in different parts of the country. The Congress and the Left parties threatened a nationwide stir if India joined RCEP. Former Prime Minister Deve Gowda wrote an impassioned four-page letter to Modi listing numerous reasons to show the unwisdom of becoming a signatory to it. The Swadeshi Jagran Manch and Bharatiya Kisan Union, the affiliates of the RSS, also lobbied hard against the RCEP. What is the RCEP? It is a free trade agreement involving the ten member states of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), i.e., Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam and six countries outside this block, i.e. Australia, China, India, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea. These countries together account for nearly 40% of the world’s GDP. The RCEP block would have also included half of the world’s population and emerged as the largest free trade zone in the world. If India had joined this new trade block, about 90% of items from ASEAN, Japan and South Korea, and around 75% from Australia, China and New Zealand would be exempt from import tariffs. The enormity of the economic, political cultural consequences of the RCEP trade agreement on Indian social and economic life can be imagined. The near-silence around it all these months therefore is striking. If talk about RCEP in India appears to have sprung from nowhere, the explanation is not hard to find. This trade agreement has not been discussed in the Parliament since the negotiations between the member countries started seven years ago. Its details, like with many such trade agreements, have been mostly kept out of the public. With the time of the RCEP summit drawing near, a few vulnerable sectors of the economy sensing a threat from it started to dissent in various parts of the country and several political parties came to echo their sentiments. The dissent around RCEP revealed a few recurring concerns. One, the removal of tariffs on a larger proportion of import goods would see China overwhelm the Indian market with cheaply manufactured textiles, cell phones, bicycles, iron and steel and other goods and hurt the small and medium industrial enterprises. Second, New Zealand and Australia would sell their excess milk and dairy products cheaply in India and hurt the wellbeing of lakhs of small agricultural families earning incomes from selling milk as well as the country’s domestic dairy industry. A third fear related to the threats to fisher communities and the growers of plantation crops like pepper and rubber. Needless to add, losing control over the economic destiny of large numbers of Indians is also to witness the weakening of the state itself. India’s large trade deficit with China grew by 6 billion US dollars, from around $52 billion to $58 billion, between 2017 and 2018 alone. If Chinese trade with India was doing this well without the RCEP, how might the situation look like if three fourths of the imported goods from China were to be exempt from import tariffs? A similar anxiety existed vis-à-vis the ASEAN countries, with whom India’s trade deficit grew from around $8 billion to $22 billion between 2010 and 2019. The difficult future scenario appears to have mattered heavily for India’s decision to not go with the RCEP, which China backed strongly to offset its injured market fortunes from its ongoing trade war with the US. While the analyses around the RCEP tend to focus on its pros and cons for India’s economy, two other major issues have gone unnoticed: the absolute need for a public deliberation of the terms of the free trade agreement and for a robust incorporation of ecological concerns into a trade treaty. Until very recently, the Union Trade Minister insisted that it was good for India to join the RCEP, heightening the tensions among those likely to be hit by it. It would have been ideal, in fact, if the ruling party had taken the country into confidence about the very factors that finally made it decide to stay out of the RCEP. Prior consultations with farmer, fishermen and small business organizations might even have obviated the need for their protest. A discussion of the gains and losses in a trade agreement in mere economic terms proves inadequate. An attention to the ecological dimension lets the pros and cons assessed more sanely. Even if India’s huge trade deficits point at the need for boosting its manufacturing sector, what are the non-negotiables in this regard as far as ecology is concerned? If the concern for farmers, fishermen and small and medium businessmen mattered for India to pull out of RCEP, it should start mattering for the shape of its domestic policies and other international treaties that affect them too. (The author teaches at Azim Premji University, Bengaluru)
