
# The heartbreakingly simple truth of the Rugby World Cup

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:41:32+00:00**

Author: **Sam Roberts**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/the-heartbreakingly-simple-truth-of-the-rugby-world-cup)

That’s the thing with sport, it doesn’t have much of a memory. However much we’d like to think it cares about what has come before, it doesn’t. You earn what you get. In the moment, the brow-splitting, heart-pumping, sinew-shredding moment, sport is honest. It will find your truth and lay it bare.
That’s not to say last week was untrue. Rugby relies on so many moving and contributing parts, wins of that magnitude are never false. But, because of the intricate nature of the oval ball game, no two weeks are the same, and indeed, just because you can beat one team, it doesn’t mean you can beat another. If Jones knew the multi-digit code to the All Black safe last week, he was perhaps one or two numbers out this. And being that short of knowledge is akin to knowing nothing. In its most basic terms, sport is binary; you either do or you don’t: it’s heartbreakingly simple.
And yet, of course, the players have memory. A World Cup final is played almost completely on ingrained instinct and deep-seated game plan. England were reaching for theirs. It was in there somewhere; they had it only last week. Balls bounced off the turf, sailed high over disbelieving faces, hands grasped thick Yokohama air; this was England’s increasingly desperate search. The more frantic the hunt, the less likely the find.
Which would suggest England lost this game, instead of South Africa winning it. You could make a case for that. England can be a poorly disciplined side. From as early as the ninth minute, when Courtney Lawes pushed himself back to his feet and metaphorically threw the kicking tee Handre Pollard’s way, England were acquiescing to the Boks’ proposal. If last week had been forensically clean, referee Garces kept finding fingerprints and pointing skywards.
