
# X Factor's Try Star lads address England's rugby World Cup final loss

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:15:22+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/x-factors-try-star-lads-20799420)

After the country was left down in the dumps by England rugby's thrashing at South African hands, the X Factor's Try Star is looking on the bright side.
Taking to the stage during tonight's live show, the hunky rugby lads performed a rendition of England's famed fan tune Swing Low Sweet Chariot that tugged on the heartstrings.
The audience went wild for the tear-jerking belter, with Dermot O'Leary joining them on stage as the crowds roared.
Ben Foden, former England pro, addressed the disappointed rugby fans: "There's no more disappointed people in the world than those 30 guys over in Japan, but we couldn't be prouder, as rugby players with close relationships with those guys.
"They've done a fantastic job of representing England in a fantastic World Cup."
 
Ben's touching words drew renewed cries of adoration from the audience, as all three boys - Ben, Thom Evans and Levi Davis - wore sincerely proud expressions on their faces.
Dermot went to the judges for their feedback, Nicole Scherzinger gushing: "Guys, I'm super impressed how you completely changed gears this week.
"The origins of this song are completely rooted in black history and that song is like a soulful prayer. Levi, you gave a beautiful, heart-felt performance."
"I loved it. Who wouldn't love that song?" Louis Walsh asked. "I loved the way you're disappointed about the rugby but you brought everything onto stage tonight.
"Levi, you are a star. But Thom and Ben...you know, it just works."
Simon Cowell was equally as impressed.
 
He told the boys: "I think what you did  took my back to when we first met you the first time.
"Are you the best singers in this competition? Not necessarily, but you are decent, nice, respectful, fun, great guys. I can't give you a golden buzzer. I wish to God I could."
Turning to the other two judges, Simon asked: "Couldn't one of you two do it?"
"I've used mine," said Louis as eyes turned on Nicole.
Dermot turned the mic back to Try Star, Thom adding: "I think it would have been wrong not to acknowledge, as Ben said, England doing so well and reaching the final of the World Cup."
Levi, who looked close to tears, said: "Yeah, it was amazing. We came out here and gave it our all, like we do every week."
Nicole got Louis and Simon up on their feet applauding when she interrupted to announce she'd be using her golden buzzer for the trio.
"I'm gonna do this," she announced, "For the boys, and this country. My love and respect for this country."
