
# CHEAP: $100 off Bose’s noise-canceling QC 35 II headphones? Hell yeah

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:33:12+00:00**

Author: **Mix**

Original: [Plugged | The Next Web](https://thenextweb.com/plugged/2019/11/07/bose-quiet-comfort-35-ii-headphones/?utm_campaign=tweet6)


        Welcome to CHEAP, our series about things that are good, but most of all, cheap. CHEAP!
      
I’ll be the first one to admit it: I’m not the most generous spender when it comes to headphones. Frankly, I’m not all that into music anymore — and I prefer to stay alerted to my surroundings.
But if there’s one time I’d make an exception, it’d be for noise-canceling cans, especially if they’re wireless, and especially if they’re Bose’s QuietComfort 35 II… at $100 off.
Does it sound too good to be true? Maybe. But it is. There’s currently a sweet, nearly 30-percent discount on the QC 35 II on eBay. You can grab a pair for just $249.99. How great is that?
While I haven’t tried the QC 35 II myself, my colleagues say they sound amazing and come with Bose’s proprietary noise-canceling tech, which apparently happens to be excellent. Oh, and they can last a full 20 hours wireless, or up to 40 hours if plugged into your device.
Personally, I always go for the black color option, if available. But if that’s not you, that’s cool: there’s also a silver and a rose gold alternative you can grab.
Now go cop a pair by clicking here and drown out the voices of those annoying humans at the office. At $100 off, you won’t regret it.

        This post includes affiliate links to products that you can buy online. If you purchase them through our links, we get a small cut of the revenue.
      

        For more gear, gadget, and hardware news and reviews, follow Plugged on Twitter and Flipboard.
      
Price $ 249.99 ProductQuiet Comfort 35 II by BoseBuy now
