
# The Untold Story Of An African American Family Affected By A Broken Health Care System

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **USOW Ambassador Voice**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/civicnation/2019/11/07/the-untold-story-of-an-african-american-family-affected-by-a-broken-health-care-system/)

In January of 2013, my family was hit with an incredible blow. My partner and the father of my two children took his own life. The week Jamir passed away, I talked to him and noticed changes in his behavior. I asked him if he wanted to talk to a professional, but he was uncomfortable doing so, despite being in so much pain. He felt he had no safe space to deal with his internal battle. He reached out to me one last time to talk, and I took him to a local hospital Dekalb Medical in Decatur, Georgia, to see if we could get him some help. The fact that he agreed to go showed me he was open to receiving help. He was admitted for evaluation after being given medication to manage his anxiety and discomfort. What happened next is something I will never forget. Instead of evaluating him in the facility for 72 hours, Jamir was released after just 10 hours. No one took into account that he had just been given medication his body was not used to or that it could have major side effects. Doctors had convinced themselves he was capable of managing alone once released. Tragically, Jamir was gone the next morning, leaving two daughters, parents, siblings, and countless family and friends affected by his passing and grieving his loss. 
Although this traumatic event affected everyone close to my partner, no one understood the emotional turmoil it inflicted on our two small children. What I remember most is the PTSD my daughters and I experienced after he passed. It was almost impossible to manage their questions, pain, mental health, and self-worth.
Why weren’t we a good enough of a reason for him to stay? Was it my fault? Did he not love us? Why didn’t anyone help him? 
Those were questions they had. It created feelings of horror, anger, shame, confusion, and guilt—all feelings that can overwhelm a child. 
To make matters worse, in an attempt to gain a change of pace, the girls and I moved to East Atlanta and redistricted school zones. August of the same year, my eldest daughter attended Ronald E. McNair Elementary School where Michael Brandon Hill attempted a school shooting in a traumatic chain of events shaking our metro Atlanta area. The school was predominantly African American, and the support provided to the children after the incident did not cover the needs of the community, a common problem faced by marginalized communities. As a mother, I was given the task of picking up the pieces. I had to endure the stress of finding clinicians who could understand the cultural sensitivity of my children's emotional and mental needs all while being their sole caregiver and provider. 
Instead of leaving the matter in someone else’s hands, I decided to engage deeper with my daughters to help them recover. In the summer of 2015, I found that my daughters loved to dance when we started dancing together at home. After we finished dancing on the first day, I noticed how they opened up and  talked to me about their struggles. They saw me as a true confidant, so I did whatever I could to build that trust and maintain it. Dancing became our commonality and the resulting open and honest communication became our outlet. In this way, I found a way to support my daughters by catering to their needs. 
That’s when we created Cool Moms Dance Too, a program designed to help mothers support their children using the power of dance and discussion through hip-hop fitness classes, journaling, and a family engagement card game. I started Cool Moms Dance Too with my two daughters, and it became the source of our healing and helped us get on track to build a supportive community at home and in class. What I experienced with my girls could help other mothers create a safe space built on stimulating and relevant activities. I started this work at home with my daughters as a way to open lines of communication to meet on a human level. Cool Moms Dance Too has become an outlet for everyday families using dance and discussion to improve physical and mental health working with organizations such as Georgia PTA, Kate’s Club, The National Alliance on Mental Health, The Women’s Resource Center to End Domestic Violence, Kidz Bop, and the Atlanta Hawks.
In the African American community, there’s a huge reluctance to discuss mental health issues. This stems from a lack of trust in the healthcare system and a lack of access to resources. Studies in 2015 show that African Americans often deal with major depression, attention deficit disorder, hyperactivity disorder, suicide, and posttraumatic stress disorder. The lack of resources and understanding are becoming fatal to the African American community. The increased suicide rate of African American children has grown by 60 percent. These are the real issues families deal with when picking up the pieces of losing someone close, dealing with stress, bullying, and more. 
Our journey is not unique. We’ve found that there are millions of families who lacked proper support and care to manage their mental and emotional health. In order to change this, mothers and their allies must advocate supporting policy that provides our children and families with comprehensive trauma-informed and culturally responsive care. We can start by using practical tools in the home, school, and community which encourage families to develop coping mechanisms as a preventative method to support their own mental health. We have to change the narrative in our community and it begins with us. As the African proverb says, “If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.”
