
# Mourinho On What He Wants From Next Job Amid Arsenal Rumours

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:16:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/jose-mourinho-on-what-he-wants-from-next-job-amid-arsenal-rumours/666695)

With Portuguese tactician Jose Mourinho heavily linked with the Arsenal job, the former Manchester United manager has now explained what he wants from his next job.

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
The 56-year-old has been unemployed since he was fired by the Red Devils in December 2018, but is reportedly on the shortlists of a number of top European sides.
The latest club Mourinho has been linked with is his former Premier League rivals Arsenal, although the London side has played down these claims.
In a recent interview, the Portuguese tactician explained that he will only accept a job from a club whose aim is to always win.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
"The only thing that I know is what I don't want, and what I don't want is crystal-clear," he told The Coaches' Voice, according to Football London.
"What I want, the general profile of course, but I can't say clubs or countries.
"I am quite pathological in this sense that I have to play to win, and then if I win or I don't win that's my problem, and the players' and the club's and the structure.
"But I need a project where the feeling is, 'I play to win'.
"If someone gives me a wonderful, incredible, amazing, 10-year contract and tells me 'the objective of the team is to stay in the first part of the table, if you finish seventh or eighth or ninth it is perfect', that's not for me.
"That's my nature. Of course, sometimes I remember what I won before, but it's not me, so my next is to fight to win."

        
          Son 'Devastated' After Gomes Ankle Break
        
      
Mourinho has won 25 trophies in his glittering managerial career so far, having taken charge of FC Porto, Chelsea, Inter Milan, Real Madrid and United.
