
# 2021 BMW iNext interior and exterior spied again

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:38:00+00:00**

Author: **Derek Fung**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805401/2021-bmw-inext-interior-and-exterior-spied-again/)

- shares
The BMW iNext crossover has been spied again, although it's not clear if the company will use the iNext name for the production crossover.
While this latest iNext prototype is wearing less camouflage than earlier vehicles, there are still plenty of false body panels, especially around the front and rear of the car, as well as around the D-pillar area.
The front fascia is largely blocked off and we're unable to see what BMW has decided to do with the brand's signature double-kidney grille.
Unlike recent additions to the BMW i range, such as the iX3, the iNext will have a body that's distinct from conventionally powered models, and seems to feature a clamshell bonnet and tailgate, as well as frameless side windows.
Our spy photography agency was again able to snap some photos of the iNext's interior, including the curved panel which houses both the infotainment system and instrumentation displays.
We can also see the car's two-spoke steering wheel, thin central air vents, and a stubby gear transmission controller in the centre console.
Not much is known about the car's drivetrain, but the company has previously confirmed it will be available with a battery pack capable of up to 600 kilometres of driving between charges.
The car will also serve as BMW's flagship for self-driving vehicle technology, and will be capable of Level 3 autonomy. If so equipped, the car can drive itself without the driver's hands on the steering wheel, but will prompt the driver to retake command if conditions prove to be too challenging.
14
nextprevious2021 BMW iNext interior and exterior spied again
