
# Mum, 19, leaves behind toddler son after sudden death

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:36:05+00:00**

Author: **Lynn Love, Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mum-19-leaves-behind-toddler-20829967)

A teenage mum has left behind a toddler son after she died suddenly. 
Denai McDougall, 19, passed away on October 25 leaving behind her two-year-old Kalvin, the Daily Record reports .
School friend Taylor McGee said Denai was 'an amazing mum.
"She would light up every room she went into," Taylor said.
"She was a kind, caring person who was always laughing.
"As soon as her son, Kalvin came into her life he was instantly her priority.
"He meant the world to her and brought her so much happiness.
"She always put Kalvin first and he absolutely adored her."
 
On November 1 crowds gathered to show their support for Denai's loved ones at Dalmuir Park in Clydebank for a balloon release, fireworks and music.
A Facebook page, Remembering Denai McDougall, has been set up to allow people to pay their respects and keep followers up to fate with any future fundraising events.
Denai's devastated best friends, who've rallied together in the wake of her death, have paid tribute to their 'angel'.
Andrea Murphy told the Record: " If I could see this smile one last time, I’d never ask for anything again." 
"I’ll miss the smile she brought on all our faces,"  pal Shanna Menzies added.
Megan Hollywood said: "There are no more tears left for me to cry, I would do anything to give you one last hug."
"We will all do our best to make your gorgeous boys life happy and full of love," Paige Wright added.
"My heart has broken into a million pieces, we will meet again my angel,"  Lauren Johnston said.
You can donate to the family by visiting this  GoFundMe  page. 
