
# Goalkeeper Martin McCourt grabs chance for Kilcoo in Ulster Club

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Andy Watters**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/gaafootball/2019/11/05/news/goalkeeper-martin-mccourt-grabs-his-chance-to-impress-for-kilcoo-in-ulster-club-championship-1756198/)

MARTIN McCourt was probably as surprised as everyone else when Kilcoo manager Mickey Moran gave him his first senior start for the Magpies in the Down SFC quarter-final replay against Burren.
In a massive game against the club that had dethroned Kilcoo the previous year, one of the youngster’s first jobs was to pick the ball out of the back of his net after Conor Toner had smashed a shot into the corner.
Donal O’Hare also beat him that night – with another excellent finish – but manager Moran kept faith in McCourt and it was easy to see why after watching his performance against Magherafelt in Sunday’s Ulster Club quarter-final.
McCourt’s reflex save to deny Emmet McGuckin a late goal was right out of the top drawer. Derry star McGuckin sent an absolute pile-driver hurtling towards the Kilcoo goal from the edge of the square but McCourt dived athletically to his right and turned the ball onto the post.
“I don’t know how I got it,” he said afterwards.
“He plucked it out of the sky and then he came through a few players and just let one go. I got my right hand to it and flicked it on to the post and it went out and that was it. I’m very happy with it.
“I don’t know how I did it but it was a good save anyway and it was great to keep a clean sheet as well, especially in such a big game.”
McCourt was beaten once on Sunday but the ‘goal’ was disallowed. Referee Joe McQuillan blew for a foul on McGuckin instead of waiting an extra few seconds as Magherafelt pressed for a way back into a game that had run away from them.
“Personally I thought he should have let it go but on the day the call went our way,” said McCourt.
“We’ll take it anyway and not look back.”
McQuillan’s decision and McCourt’s save meant that Kilcoo survived some nervous moments in the hectic final stages to win by six points and progress to an Ulster semi-final showdown with Fermanagh champions Derrygonnelly Harps.
“The boys fought right to the end there,” said McCourt.
“We got a few points up and we held on to it, we defended well and broke well when we had to so it was a good win.
“Everyone is feeling good now but we still have a lot of work to do.
“We still have a long trek ahead of us and the next two games will be very important. We’ll take each game as it comes and not get carried away with it.
“It is wide open this year but every game is going to be tough. I don’t even know who the favourites are now and there won’t be any easy games.
“The semi-final will be tough and the final will be tougher if we get there. We’ll take each game as it comes and hopefully we’ll get over the line.”
McCourt’s performance on Sunday led several observers to earmark him as a Down star of the future. His selection indicates the wealth of talent in the Kilcoo camp and the fierce competition for places in Mickey Moran’s side.
“I came into the team against Burren in the replay,” he explained.
“That was my first game and I’ve been in ever since. The competition in the squad for places on the team is unbelievable. The second 15 is nearly as good as the first 15 – that’s how tight it is. Mickey showed a lot of faith in me, he put me in against Burren and all I can do is thank him and try to repay him now.”
