
# Seacera shareholders holding 2.5% stake propose appointment of six new directors

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:06:59+00:00**

Author: **Ahmad Naqib Idris**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/seacera-shareholders-holding-25-stake-propose-appointment-six-new-directors)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 4): Four shareholders of Seacera Group Bhd have issued a notice of resolutions to be moved at the group's 34th annual general meeting (AGM) on Nov 29, entailing the nomination of six new directors to the board.
The shareholders are Ng Wai Yuan, Datin Sek Chian Nee, Low Swee Foong and Datuk Tan Wei Lian, holding a collective stake of 2.5% in the company.
According to a circular filed with Bursa Malaysia, the six directors comprise Rivzi Abdul Halim, Datin Ida Suzaini Abdullah, Marzuki Hussain, Tan Lee Chin, Ong Eng Taik and Ramnath R. Sundaram.
"All the proposed directors have given their consent to act as directors and declare that they are not disqualified from being appointed as directors of the company.
"In accordance with Section 323(2) [of the] Companies Act 2016, the company is to give notice of the above resolutions that may be properly moved and intended to be moved at the AGM," the filing said.
On Oct 17, six Seacera shareholders comprising JS Portfolio Sdn Bhd, Mak Hon Leong, Ng, Ong, Sek and Low, who claimed to collectively hold at least 10% of the group's share capital, sought an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) on Dec 3 to consider appointing six new directors and removing nine existing ones.
The group said it was seeking legal advice on the matter back then, but there had been no updates since.
Seacera shareholders have been demanding for an EGM over the past several months. In June, the company sought to nullify an EGM requisition made by Ng and two other shareholders, Lim Seow Chin and Ooi Chieng Sim.
The tile manufacturer has been in the spotlight of late over a series of boardroom disputes, its Practice Note 17 status since April after defaulting on a loan repayment, and its failure to provide a solvency declaration to Bursa.
Seacera's then managing director, Zulkarnin Ariffin, quit the company in end-May, a day after the High Court had dismissed its injunction application to restrain an EGM called for by its then single largest shareholder Wei Lian.
Wei Lian, who is also Tiger Synergy Bhd's executive chairman, had called for the EGM to appoint new directors and remove existing ones.
At 2.37pm, Seacera rose 12.28% or 3.5 sen to 32 sen for a market capitalisation of RM153.8 million.
