
# Reality star Suzi Taylor allegedly attempted to extort Tinder date, had him assaulted: report

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:09:42+00:00**

Author: **Lia Eustachewich**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/reality-star-suzi-taylor-allegedly-attempted-extort-tinder-date-assaulted-report)

A reality TV star in Australia is accused of trying to extort her Tinder date — and then assaulting him with another man when he refused to pay, according to a new report.
Suzi Taylor, who starred on the hit home renovation show “The Block,” allegedly lured the 33-year-old victim, whom she met through the dating app, to a home in Brisbane just after midnight Wednesday, News.com.au reported.
She then demanded money from him — but when he refused to comply, Taylor’s alleged accomplice, Ali Ebrahimi, entered the room and assaulted the man, police said in a statement.

        
          WALLS OF JERICHO DRUMMER ARRESTED WITH OVER 630 POUNDS OF MARIJUANA
        
      
“The woman also allegedly assaulted the man before the pair forced the man to undertake an online transaction,” police said. “The pair then allegedly stole his bank card and withdrew a sum of money.”
Police didn’t say how much the pair is accused of stealing or whether the victim suffered any injuries.

        
          'SUPERNATURAL' STAR JARED PADALECKI ARRESTED FOR ASSAULT
        
      
Taylor, 49, who won $349,000 with her friend on Season 11 of “The Block” in 2015, and Ebrahimi, 22, are charged with extortion, deprivation of liberty, assault and drug possession.
Taylor was refused bail pending her next court hearing on Nov. 25.

        
          This article originally appeared in the New York Post.
        
      
