
# Top Diplomat Sondland Revises Testimony, Says Ukraine Aid Withheld Over Probe Requests

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:03:48+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/us/201911051077231972-us-eu-ambassador-sondland-updates-testimony-says-ukraine-aid-withheld-over-probe-requests---report/)


        On Tuesday, US Ambassador to the European Union Gordon Sondland revealed for the first time that he had previously communicated to a top Ukrainian official that the Trump administration would likely withhold aid in the absence of its requested probe of former US Vice President Joe Biden.
      
In four new pages of sworn testimony to Congress released Tuesday but given the day prior, Sondland described how he laid out an understanding of quid pro quo to Andriy Yermak, a top adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy: US aid to Ukraine could be at risk if Kiev didn't publicly commit to the Trump administration's requested investigation of Biden.
"Ambassador Taylor recalls that I told Mr. Morrison in early September 2019 that the resumption of US aid to Ukraine had become tied to a public statement to be issued by Ukraine agreeing to investigate Burisma. Ambassador Taylor recalls that Mr. Morrison told Ambassador Taylor that I told Mr. Morrison that I had conveyed this message to Mr. Yermak on September 1, 2019, in connection with Vice President Pence's visit to Warsaw and a meeting with President Zelensky. Mr. Morrison recalls that I said to him in early September that resumption of US aid to Ukraine might be conditioned on a public statement reopening the Burisma investigation," Sondland's declaration states.
