
# Megan McKenna to perform 'emotional' song about late grandad on Celebrity X Factor

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:49:53+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/megan-mckenna-perform-emotional-song-20795626)

Megan McKenna is going to perform a self-written song about her late grandad Roy on Saturday night's Celebrity X Factor .
The former TOWIE star, 27, whose grandfather passed away in 2015, has discussed how the lyrics to her track Stronger are "extra personal" and singing live on stage will be "a really emotional moment."
"This will be one of my most emotional performances. I'll have to hold it together when I'm on stage," she told MailOnline.
She told the publication: "The song I'm performing this week is extra personal to me. It is going to be a really emotional moment for me and my family."
The talent show hopeful also touched on how she was inspired to pen the lyrics as a result of the words her late grandad would say to her as she reflected that he was her "biggest fan."
The country singer also shared that her grandfather was like her own " Simon Cowell " who was involved in her song selection and that he would watch her practice.
Megan sweetly added that she is sure he will be looking down on her as she takes to the stage.
Over the last ten years, Megan has made numerous attempts at fulfilling her pop star fantasy.
From Britain's Got Talent, to forming a reality TV girlband to applying for the regular series of X Factor (twice), Megan has never given up on her dream - despite the knockbacks.
After Megan has taken two years out of the spotlight, Celebrity PR expert Rob Cooper told Mirror Online he believes X Factor: Celebrity is the perfect opportunity for her to come back fighting.
He said: "Unlike many of the contestants, Megan has proved that music is the real passion in her life, even before becoming a reality star.
"Back in 2009 Megan auditioned on Britain's Got Talent, and although the attempt didn’t secure her a place in the live finals, it’s now validated her claims that music is a real passion of hers.
"It's important that viewers believe that music is serious to a contestant, as social media fans have been given more of an insight into celebrities lives and interests, if people don’t believe singing is a passion then it’s less likely they will get behind her in the same way.
"The other slight benefit for Megan is that she has the perfect balance of two different audiences : Online and mainstream. Not only will the viewers know who she is because of her 2.3million Instagram followers, but also because they follow her life via reality TV, tabloids, magazines and TV interviews.
"I genuinely believe this is the perfect time for Megan to reinvent herself from an outspoken reality star to a credible recording artist.
"Numerous people from ‘The Only Way Is Essex’ have tried to launch successful music careers and failed, I think Megan could break the person to the mould."
Rob then gave some advice for pop star hopeful Megan.
"Over the years she's participated in numerous reality shows such as Towie, Ex On The Beach, Big Brother , Celebs go dating and many more.
"If she wants to be taken seriously she needs to try and reject anymore reality shows and give music a real bash. People need to believe that Megan wants to be a singer, not a reality star with a singing job on the side."

        
          *The X Factor: Celebrity is on Saturday night at 8.30pm on ITV.
        
      
