
# WWE Friday Night SmackDown Results: News And Notes After Brock Lesnar Quits, Leaves For Raw

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alfred Konuwa**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/alfredkonuwa/2019/11/01/wwe-friday-night-smackdown-results-news-and-notes-after-brock-lesnar-quits-leaves-for-raw/)

A wild, impromptu broadcast of Friday Night SmackDown aired as most of the main roster was air-bound after being stranded in Saudi Arabia. Brock Lesnar kicked off the show by shockingly quitting Raw, thereby furthering his feud with Rey Mysterio all while solving a potentially lingering problem of SmackDown having two world champions. Based on its failing viewership on Fox, SmackDown can use all the world champions it can get.
The evening also saw WWE NXT Superstars run roughshod on the SmackDown roster, with NXT stars prevailing in every interpromotional match, including Adam Cole retaining his NXT Championship over Daniel Bryan. By night’s end, NXT Godfather Triple H announced the black and yellow brand had fired the first shot.
Last week’s broadcast of WWE Friday Night SmackDown achieved scary low viewership of just 888,000 for its FS1 airing.

        WWE Friday Night SmackDown Key Competition: 
      

        From the Forbes WWE Vault:
      
WWE Total YouTube Viewership for Friday Night SmackDown Last Friday: 7,778,256 views (up from 5,583,754)
Average Attendance for “A City”: 9,235
Average WWE Friday Night SmackDown Ticket Price at the KeyBank Center: $43
Estimated Live Gate for WWE Friday Night SmackDown: $397,105

        WWE Friday Night SmackDown Results: Friday, November 31, 2019
      

        Brock Lesnar Quits WWE Friday Night SmackDown
      
Of all the fantasy booking everybody was doing to book a world champion heading to WWE Raw, nobody had Brock Lesnar quitting. Surprisingly, this scenario makes the most sense and follows several layers of storyline cohesion with Lesnar seeking vengeance against Rey Mysterio. Brock Lesnar quitting Friday Nigh SmackDown may sound like a copout, but it’s actually quite masterful.

        Bayley def. Nikki Cross
      
The fact that Sasha Banks can’t get a match with most of the main roster inflight feels like a crime, however there might also be injury-related reasons.
I hope WWE sticks with Bayley as a heel champion for as long as it takes for her to reach her sizable potential in this role.
Shayna Baszler probably has the best reason to be on Friday Night SmackDown as she has cleaned out the NXT women’s division several times by now.

        Matt Riddle and Keith Lee Lay Out Sami Zayn
      
I’d love to hear heel Sami Zayn’s true feelings about WWE Superstars having their flight delayed in Saudi Arabia.
Sami Zayn is such a great heel but he’s also a great wrestler and I fear his wrestling days are largely a thing of the past.

        Tommaso Ciampa def. The Miz
      
At one point, while The Miz was working the crowd, Renee Young said “I love Miz, but this is excessive.” I feel the exact same way about Pat McAfee on commentary, except I’m not even sure I even like Pat McAfee.
The Miz said people always say they want to see himself and Tommaso Ciampa battle it out on the mic. Miz took this as a compliment, I take it as a backhanded insult to his wrestling ability.
With just about WWE’s entire roster stranded in Saudi Arabia, The Miz finally gets to wrestle.
As evidenced by the dueling chants, this Buffalo crowd was not all the way with Ciampa, some of whom did not seem to even know who he was.

        Rhea Ripley and Tegan Knox def. Fire and Desire
      
By this point, this night was beginning to feel like WWE punishing SmackDown Superstars for drawing one of their worst ratings ever.
Renee Young received a bloody nose after getting accidentally kicked in the face and, to say the least, she did not seem happy about it.

        Adam Cole vs. Daniel Bryan—WWE NXT Championship
      
In addition to being #indyriffic on paper (in a good way), the time being given to Daniel Bryan and Adam Cole suggests it will be one of the better TV matches of 2019, especially for the live crowd that did not have to sit through commercials.
I know the theme of the night was to get WWE NXT stars over, but that show had been slowly dying week by week and Daniel Bryan as NXT champion would have been one of the few moves that could boost the ratings.
Conspicuous by his absence among the sea of WWE NXT talent was Jordan Myles.
