
# 'AdWise' workplace counselling: 'I need a helping hand, but my boss is busy. What should I do?'

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:53:06+00:00**

Author: **Namrata Singh**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/adwise-workplace-counselling-i-need-a-helping-hand-but-my-boss-is-busy-what-should-i-do/articleshow/71949376.cms)


        Question: After my boss took upon a new role in the organisation, I have been assigned a mentor by the senior management from a different unit. My mentor, however, is very busy with other responsibilities and thus is not able to devote time for coaching me. I feel disengaged and not able to get the help that I need to grow in the organisation. The small business unit I am heading is not central to the business and failing to meet targets. I need guidance from top leadership. My confidence is at an all-time low. How can I overcome this situation?
      

        Abhijit Bhaduri replies:
      
You have raised two issues — relating to business and mentoring. Let us start with the business aspect.
Apart from a long-term approach, every business has to keep a shortterm view of the existing venture. Their future depends on finding new markets, creating innovative products and services. Also, one has to get new customers who may be completely different from your present ones. So, your role and your success are tied up with the future of your organisation too. Think of your role as an entrepreneur who is building a business. Every big business started off as set of dreamers who knew they would do everything to make their dream come true. If they could, so will you.
As your business grows, revenues and profits will become a larger percentage of the organisation’s annual outout. You will then become a critical resource for the rest. You will be the centre of that future. What could you do to grow the business: “ Talk to potential customers to identify pain points your organisation could solve “ Ask leaders in other businesses of your organisation for advice on how they have grown their units. Tell them that you will come back to them for ideas and even possible introductions “ Study other industries to find innovative ideas. Then share your execution plan with your bosses Let’s now look at mentoring. Coaching a person needs one to have the skills and the desire to invest time and commit towards your success. Else, many mentors simply use the time to tell the mentee about their own achievements. Being a good listener and having empathy makes one a good mentor.
Try using the collaboration software (Skype or Zoom) to connect with your mentor. Once you get started, you will realise that the virtual mentorship model will throw open many new possibilities.
Use social media to follow best business leaders you look up to and seek their advice. Their tweets, blog posts and podcasts are valuable sources to expand the set of mentors you work with. Once you have connected with them, you could seek their advice on issues you are struggling with.
Create a “board of mentors” from your own organisation. Build a set of four-five people you will seek advice from. I have always had a group of mentors to learn from. I find it wonderful to get a variety of ideas and perspectives on the same problem.
Let me know which option you found to be of value.

        (Abhijit Bhaduri is a digital transformation coach who advises organisations on the Future of Work)
      
Talk to us: Are you dealing with a tough boss? Are your colleagues being mean to you? Is your workplace culture hindering your growth? Is there anything that’s bothering you at work, which you’re wary of discussing internally? Talk to us. Our panel of experts will assist you in resolving your workplace related matters. ‘AdWise’ will appear on these pages every Thursday to help you with your workplace matters. Write to us at adwise@timesgroup.com
