
# Maruti sees revival, others still struggle

Published at: **2019-11-02T02:22:51+00:00**

Author: **TNN**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/maruti-sees-revival-others-still-struggle/articleshow/71861056.cms)

NEW DELHI: India’s largest car maker by sales Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) witnessed some revival in sales but other manufacturers are still struggling with a weak demand in the sector.
MSI posted a growth of 4.5% in its domestic wholesale at 1,44,277 units in October as against 1,38,100 units in same period last year. This is the first time in the last seven months that the company has witnessed an increase in its domestic sales.
While other manufacturers reported improved sales during the period by managing to arrest any substantial decline, most were in the negative territory.
Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) sales slipped 11% to 49,193 units last month, as compared to 55,350 units in October 2018. In September, the company had reported a decline of 21% in domestic sales to 40,692 units.
“The festive month of October was excellent for Mahindra, with retail volume exceeding wholesale by approximately 40%. This robust retail performance was contributed by both passenger and commercial vehicles,” said Veejay Ram Nakra, chief of sales and marketing, automotive division at M&M.
Another homegrown behemoth Tata Motors reported a 34% fall in its October 2019 sales (domestic & international markets), while Toyota Kirloskar Motor reported 6% decline in domestic sales.
In the two-wheeler segment, market leader Hero MotoCorp reported 18.4% decline in total sales to 5,99,248 units in October. It sold 7,34,668 units in the same month last year, a statement said.
