
# Wolves linked with two transfer deals as Adama Traore phonecall revealed

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Dicken, https://www.facebook.com/alexdickenjournalist/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/wolves-linked-two-transfer-deals-17199937)

Wolverhampton Wanderers have been linked with a surprise move for Burnley winger Dwight McNeil.
The 19-year-old Englishman has made big strides at Turf Moor in the past 12 months to become a regular in the Premier League under Sean Dyche.
McNeil has also earned international recognition with England’s under-21s and boasts one goal and three assists in 11 Premier League matches this season.
And that form has reportedly attracted a long list of admirers. According to TEAMtalk, Wolves, Everton and Leicester City are tracking McNeil, although the same report claims the Foxes are leading the chase. The figure Burnley supposedly want for McNeil is £30million.
While McNeil is a talented player, Wolves have other priorities heading into the January transfer window with strengthening defence and midfield Nuno Espirito Santo’s main concern.
The price McNeil is said to be valued at wouldn’t tie in with Wolves’ philosophy either with chairman Jeff Shi recently revealing his frustration about the transfer market.
“I feel a little bit frustrated about the market inflation but we are still working very hard," he said. "Our scouting team are working really hard around Europe and the world to find good talent to help us.
“We are strong and we know where we are maybe a little bit weak, and I keep talking to Nuno about it. I think we will have a good window in January.”
This is your round up of all things Wolves; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Wolves throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WWFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Wolves reporter Alex Dicken on Twitter, and his email address is Alex.Dicken@reachplc.com
Swedish midfielder Dejan Kulusevski has been linked with a transfer to Wolverhampton Wanderers.
The 19-year-old, who plays his club football for Serie A side Atalanta, has been linked with a host of Premier League clubs including Manchester City and Arsenal. 
However, according to TMW (via Sport Witness), Wolves have now joined the race for Kulusevski with boss Nuno Espirito Santo ready to sanction a £13million offer.    
The report claims ‘a proposal of €15million (£13m) will be sent’, but Atalanta are said to want closer to €25million (£21.6m) for the midfielder. 
Kulusevski’s agent, Stefano Sem, recently discussed the interest in the Sweden under-21 international. 
“For elegance I don’t name names, I only say that they were both Italian and foreign teams," he said. 
“He’s a Swedish international, he’s a player who has a more international market than other guys even for a basic mentality and culture discourse.   
"It’s clear that he’s a player that even at the national team, when he plays, it’s easier to follow than his other teammates who play for the Italian national team. 
“The Italians have the ambition to play for Azzurri and maybe get in a big Italian club, a foreigner wants the top: if the top is in Italy good, if it’s abroad he goes abroad.”
Wolverhampton Wanderers are tracking Royal Antwerp defender Aurelio Buta.
The 22-year-old is impressing out in Belgium with Antwerp and has been watched by Wolves scouts in recent months.
Wolves aren’t the only Premier League club to have taken a look at Buta with Watford, Newcastle United and a host of Championship clubs also keeping tabs on him.
Tony Pulis has revealed how he kick-started Wolverhampton Wanderers winger Adama Traore’s career.
Traore, 23, struggled to make an impact in his first two seasons in English football and couldn’t get a game under Garry Monk prior to Pulis’ appointment as Middlesbrough manager in 2017.
With a little help from Pulis - who has since dubbed Traore his ‘best buddy’ - the rapid flanker ripped the Championship apart during the second half of 2017/18.
A similar pattern has emerged following his £18million transfer to Wolves as Traore largely watched on from the bench during his first season under Nuno Espirito Santo before exploding into life this term.
The Spaniard already has two goals and six assists to his name this season and has proved himself to be competent in three positions within Nuno’s system.
And Pulis has shed some light on his relationship with Traore who he says still calls him to ask for his opinion.
"I used to have him in my room to talk to him at times because I felt he needed it," Pulis said.
"When I went to Middlesbrough this kid wasn't being played. He had exceptional talent, I used to bring him in, sit him down, he'd make me a green tea, and we'd just talk about his game.
"Even today not so long ago he called me to see how I am and asked whether I'd watched one of his games. You make that connection.
"With others you find they're not your type and you won't spend as much time with them, but they're still important to you so you treat them well."
