
# Madeleine McCann family's friend slams ex-detective over 'spiteful' search remark

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:49:06+00:00**

Author: **Jerry Lawton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/madeleine-mccann-familys-friend-slams-20829305)

A family friend of the McCanns has slammed an ex-detective over his 'spiteful' remark about the search for missing Madeleine.
Retired vice squad officer John Coxon demanded an end to efforts to find the missing girl.
And he said Scotland Yard’s £12million probe Operation Grange is a “disgraceful waste of resources,” reports the Daily Star.
A source close to the couple has slammed Mr Coxon and fumed: “The opinion of a retired officer who has not even worked on the case is quite frankly ludicrous.
“It is insensitive and spiteful towards Madeleine’s family and the detectives who are trying their utmost to find out what happened.”
Madeleine vanished from her family’s Portuguese holiday apartment in 2007 when she was just three years old.
Mr Coxon has called on the Independent Office Of Police Conduct to shut down the inquiry, branding it “the biggest scandal in the history of the Met”.
But the body has confirmed it will not investigate his gripe. They say his complaint is invalid in law because he has not been personally affected by the case.
 
Mr Coxon has not responded to requests for comment on the decision not to pursue his complaint.
Tonight, doctor parents Kate and Gerry, who believe their daughter was abducted and continue to hope she may still be alive, thanked police for continuing their hunt for Madeleine.
A spokesman for the McCanns said tonight: “Kate and Gerry have been advised not to talk about the inquiry while it is still ongoing and they remain extremely grateful to the Met Police.”
