
# That Time Chris Evans Spoiled Avengers: Endgame For Anthony Mackie

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:57:59+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483865/that-time-chris-evans-spoiled-avengers-endgame-for-anthony-mackie)

Written By
Remember when the illustrious cast of Avengers: Endgame couldn’t spill a word about the summer blockbuster? The actors weren’t only sworn to secrecy for the audience's sake either. It sounds like they were each given differing levels of clearance about the details of Endgame – ranging from Tom Holland not even given a script to Robert Downey Jr. contributing vital lines to the movie. Then, there’s that time when Chris Evans spoiled a key plot point in the journey of Anthony Mackie’s Falcon by mistake. But don’t worry, it ended up to be a pretty sweet exchange between the actors.
Chris Evans has revealed that he accidentally spoiled the scene during the finale of Endgame. It's the part where Old Man Cap passes his vibranium shield to Falcon after wistfully showing up on a bench as a 106-year-old man who has had a full life with Peggy Carter. The slip up happened when he invited some members of the cast over to watch football at his place and Anthony Mackie turned up first. In his words:
Oops! Curiously enough Chris Evans had been given the details of the scene before Anthony Mackie. When he found out he hadn’t read the later memorable on-screen moment yet, Evans ran over to his room and had the pleasure of watching Mackie read it for the first time. The Captain America actor recalls seeing him so happy to be passed the shield at the end of the big-budget flick. He calls it the perfect way to transition the characters... even though Evans also wonders if he might have robbed a little something from Marvel chief Kevin Feige.
Per his words on The Tonight Show, it sounds like the two shield-wielding Captain America stars couldn’t have shared the importance of the scene together any better. Without a plan, Chris Evans got to actually show Mackie that he’d be given the shield and continue the legacy of the character (sorry Bucky!) Can’t get better than that! Soon, audiences will get to see how Sam Wilson continues following Steve Rogers’ retirement in the upcoming Disney+ series, The Falcon and the Winter Soldier.
The six-episode series starring Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan, that recently began production will explore the world of Captain America following the departure of the first Avenger in Endgame. Mackie has recently said he’ll still be Falcon in the show, but has also opened up about feeling the weight of continuing the legacy of his new role – calling it a “a huge challenge” to follow after the weight Evans brought to his character.
The Falcon and the Winter Soldier will arrive on Disney+ in fall 2020, about a year after the streaming service launches next week on November 12.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
