
# Soldier attacked with knife and acid near British Army base

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:06:30+00:00**

Author: **Charlie Lawrence-Jone, Max Channon**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/soldier-attacked-knife-acid-near-3490410)

A soldier has been stabbed and had acid thrown in his face near an British Army base in London.
While police have given assurances that the incident was a robbery, comparisons to the horrific murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby in 2013 have been made.
Sources close to the Cavalry Barracks in Hounslow, where the attack happened, told The Sun: "He was just out for a run. He wasn't in Army gear or clothes that suggested he was Forces.
"Not far from his base, three men jumped him and he had something sprayed in his face and his arm and stomach were cut.
"Cops are certain it's not terror and everyone on the base is being told it's not terror but it's hard not to think of Lee Rigby when something like this happens.
"Officers say it was a robbery gone wrong. There have been similar incidents in the area."
Metropolitan Police are now calling for witnesses after a 'noxious substance' was sprayed in the face of a soldier near Cavalry Barracks base in Hounslow.
The soldier, an Irish Guardsman, was also slashed across the arm and stomach with a knife during the attack by three men on Tuesday (October 29).
The soldier managed to get back to the barracks where he raised the alarm.
He was taken to hospital but thankfully his condition is not life threatening.
A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police said: "Officers, the London Ambulance Service and London Fire Brigade attended and found a man aged in his 30s, suffering from facial injuries and slash wounds to the upper body.
"He was treated by LAS before being taken to hospital; his condition is not life-threatening.
"The victim was approached by three males who attacked and robbed him.
"No arrests have been made at this stage. The incident is being treated as a robbery."
Officers are urging anyone who has information about the incident to call 101 and used the reference CAD 5065/29 Oct.
