
# Popular Scottish youth worker tragically killed after London road crash

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:16:48+00:00**

Author: **David Meikle**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/popular-scottish-youth-worker-tragically-20832269)

A popular youth worker has died after being involved in a horror road crash in London.
Andrew Brown, 23, was caught up in a serious collision in the early hours of last Friday morning before being rushed to the city's St. George's Hospital and put into intensive care by medics.
But his injuries were too severe and he passed away on Tuesday.
Andrew, of Glasgow , was a previous vice-president of the city's Queen Margaret Union and had been working in the US with firm AmeriCamp who operate summer camps.
Andrew had been based at Camp JayCee in Pennsylvania, one of the most popular in America as bosses paid tribute saying the world was 'darker' without him.
They have also announced plans to set up the Andrew Brown Special Needs Scholarship to honour his work with special needs people during his time at AmeriCamp.
Posting on their website, they said: "It is with a heavy heart that we report that AmeriCamp's Andrew Brown has tragically passed away at the age of 23.
 
"Andrew was an instrumental part of our team who helped thousands of people do AmeriCamp.
"He truly pushed the benefits of working with people that have special needs and made a massive difference to the lives of so many.
"He was a huge part of Camp JayCee in Pennsylvania and will be deeply missed by both sets of friends that he made in the UK and USA."
Cat Tomlinson, CEO of AmeriCamp said: "Andrew's legacy will live on through the scholarship as we continue to help those with special needs.
"The smile that he brought to the campers that he worked with are memories that we will hold very fondly of him.
"AmeriCamp will not forget the love and passion he brought to his role here and the work he did in the US, he will be truly missed."
In a statement, the Queen Margaret Union said: "It is with profound regret that we must share with you the passing of our former Vice-President Andrew Brown.
"Andrew was involved in a serious road traffic incident in London in the early hours of Friday morning.
"Despite the valiant efforts of St. George's Major Trauma Centre who put him into intensive care, his injuries were too severe and on 5th November he passed away with family at his bedside.
"Those who knew Andrew will be aware that to know him was to love him.
"He was a vivacious and inspiring individual who had so much time for the people in his life, and gave so much to others through his work at QMU and beyond.
"His tragic loss will be felt deeply by all of us here.
"We would like to extend our heartfelt condolences to his family, and we will keep you aware of any plans that they or the QMU have to remember Andrew in due course.
 
"You will be sorely missed Andrew."
Lee McAteer, founder of the Invasion Camp which sends people to AmeriCamp, said: "Everyone at AmeriCamp and Invasion Camp Group is truly devastated to hear the tragic news.
"Andrew was the life and soul of the party. His huge smile and caring personality shone like a ray of light. Today, the world is darker without him.
"He might not have been here for long, but his legacy will last forever.
"With the blessing of Andrew's family, we have decided to create the Andrew Brown Special Needs Scholarship which will allow someone each year to continue the great work Andrew did at Camp JayCee."
