
# People have said 'Kill your wife' and 'Wish that your daughter gets cancer'

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:07:30+00:00**

Author: **Sport.es**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/premier-league/people-have-said-kill-your-wife-and-wish-that-your-daughter-gets-cancer-7710046)

It's been a tough week for Arsenal. Before being knocked out of the League Cup by Liverpool, they were held to a 2-2 draw by Crystal Palace, with Granit Xhaka's relationship with the fans hitting rock bottom when he was substituted during that game.
As he was taken off by Unai Emery, while walking back towards the dressing room, he was jeered by his own fans. The Arsenal captain reacted by lifting his hand to his ear and waving his arms in the air, a gesture that didn't go down well with the supporters.
He was subsequently left out of the squad for the Liverpool game but has now posted a message on social media to clear up his actions-
“The scenes that took place around my substitution have moved me deeply. I love this club and always give 100% on and off the pitch,&rdquor; he wrote.
“My feeling of not being understood by fans, and repeated abusive comments at matches and in social media over the last weeks and months have hurt me deeply. People have said things like ‘We will break your legs’, ‘Kill your wife’ and ‘Wish that your daughter gets cancer’. That has stirred me up and I reached boiling point when I felt the rejection in the stadium on Sunday.
“In this situation, I let myself get carried away and reacted in a way that disrespected the group of fans that support our club, our team and myself with positive energy. That has not been my intention and I’m sorry if that’s what people thought. My wish is to get back to a place of mutual respect, remembering why we fell in love with this game in the first place. Let’s move forward positively together.&rdquor;
