
# Apple Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First Deals

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/11/02/apple-black-friday-2019-here-are-the-first-deals-apple-watch-iphone-ipad-macbook-airpods-black-friday-sales/)

This story was written in collaboration with Forbes Finds. Forbes Finds covers products we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.Apple’s Black Friday 2019 sales are always a mess, but thankfully the biggest retailers are on hand to save the day with sales already live from Walmart, from Best Buy and a major Apple sale from Amazon. Here is a roundup of the hottest new Black Friday deals on Apple iPhones, iPads, MacBooks, AirPods and the Apple Watch. Many of which will not be bettered on Black Friday itself. 

        Amazon Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Best Black Friday iPhone Deals
      

        Apple Black Friday iPad Deals
      

        Apple Black Friday MacBook Deal
      

        Walmart Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Apple Black Friday Apple Watch Deal
      

        Apple Black Friday AirPods Deals
      

        Best Buy Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Apple Black Friday Accessories Deals
      
For me, the standout deals here are the 256GB iPhone XS because, although it is one year old, it’s $400 less than a 256GB iPhone 11 Pro. Amazon’s iPhone 6S is also an incredible deal for a cheap/backup phone and the store’s iPad Pro deal is likely one of the biggest savings you’ll see this holiday season because it’s such a new device. Pay attention to Walmart’s 6th gen iPad deal, this is a rock-solid device. 
Seeing B&H discount the latest MacBook Pros along with the red hot Apple Watch Series 5 is a big surprise, I expected no discounts this year and Amazon’s AirPods deals should be as good as anything you find on Black Friday itself (with more stock now too). 
For my dedicated store-by-store, Black Friday live deals guides you can check out available Amazon deals here, available Best Buy deals here and available Walmart deals here. While Black Friday 2019 shipping policies can be found for Amazon (here), Best Buy (here), Target (here) and Walmart (here).
___
Follow Gordon on Twitter and Facebook 

        More of my Black Friday Guides on Forbes
      
