
# Rutherglen school accused of failing vulnerable pupils, claim parents

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:10:00+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Geddes, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jonathan-geddes/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/rutherglen-school-accused-failing-vulnerable-20818013)

Rutherglen High is “failing” its vulnerable young pupils, a group of concerned parents have claimed.
The Reformer has spoken to several parents of pupils at the school – which currently caters for 107 children with a range of additional support needs – all of whom have raised serious concerns about the quality of education their children are receiving.
Bosses at South Lanarkshire Council have now opened inquiries into several of the allegations.
The damning accusations include:
* Children not being supported in developing important life skills
* Key subjects being removed from the timetable
* Staff teaching subjects they are not specialist in
* Teachers making aggressive and disparaging remarks to pupils
* Poor communication with parents
The children involved in the complaints are all of varying ages and in different classes in the school, which parents argue proves the problems are widespread and not confined to one or two poorly performing teachers.
Two of the parents – who learned they shared the same concerns at the school gates - have told the Reformer they are now paying for private tuition to make up for the progress their children should be making in school.
One woman, whose child is in fifth year and has a form of autism, says she is worried about the kind of future her son will have as a result of his education at Rutherglen High.
“I feel that my son has regressed since going to that school,” she told the Reformer.
“I wish I’d never sent him there because he’s approaching 16 and he’s going into the world and I really worry about the skills he’s learned there.”
The worried Rutherglen mother says her son, as with others in the school, has seen classes like home economics cut from the curriculum, despite including essential life skills such as cooking, budgeting, well being and health.
Parents say they have been told that homework is not compulsory after first year too.
Science was also, one parent alleges, removed from the timetable because there was no teacher available to lead the lessons.
And when it was reintroduced because of parents’ complaints, lessons were delivered by a teacher who had previously been teaching PE.
She said: “I asked around the other mums and we realised there were subjects they’d all picked and hadn’t got.
“I asked them and straight away the reply comes back that there weren’t the numbers for science classes.
“I asked why every parent I’d spoken to said their children had picked science and hadn’t got it. Then they claimed they didn’t actually have a science teacher, so that’s giving the kids false hope.
“They promised they would fix it – and the next thing they said the head of the year was also a science teacher too. He’d been teaching PE before!
Another mother added: “My son didn’t get a pick of the subjects, he didn’t get to do anything that interests him. He’s told us some teachers are just sticking Finding Nemo or Mr Tumble on for them to watch. It’s not pushing him at all and it’s not helpful for him when he becomes an adult.”
A third parent, whose son is very capable academically, feels his confidence has been battered recently following a number of blunders by school staff.
Explaining the fifth-year pupil had been due to attend some classes at Cathkin High School, the mum said teachers had failed to send a report to Cathkin outlining what he had aimed to achieve through the integrated learning.
She said when he attended the Cambuslang school he was told he was in the wrong class, and given work far above his level.
“It humiliated him,” she said. “Things like that destroy his confidence. There seemed to be no communication as to what he was supposed to be doing there.”
Another parent also alleges that her fifth-year son was called an idiot by a teacher who said the youngster would “never get a job.”
A common concern amongst all parents was also the chaotic timetable, which they claim has changed several times this year. It has seen the children turn up for classes and no teacher there for their lessons because the staff timetable did not match that given to the students.
One parent said: “They were supposed to be at college every Tuesday from period 1 to period 4 but no-one knew what they were doing. It took three weeks into the term before it was sorted out.
“My son was told one day by a support staff member that he should have been in maths.
“They looked at the timetables and both of them were completely different. Things like that seem to happen a lot.
“To be honest I couldn’t tell you what his timetable actually looks like, because there have been so many changes to it.”
One of the parents, all of whom say they have raised issues with the school, said: “You expect better [from a school]. You trust teachers and a school, and then you wonder if you’re the one that’s wrong. But we’ve all started to talk, and realised that we all have concerns. The school is failing the children.”
South Lanarkshire Council confirmed that it is looking into the complaints about the school, which opened in 1999.
Anne Donaldson, head of education at South Lanarkshire Council, said: “The council is committed to providing the best standard of education for all of its pupils, and invites open dialogue with school communities and parent forums.
“Issues have been highlighted through the council’s confidential complaints procedure in relation to Rutherglen High School.
“We are addressing each and, as per the complaints process, we will respond to complainants directly when investigations are complete.”
