
# Music lover's plea to save Plymouth's live venues

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:47:12+00:00**

Author: **Talia Heggs**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/music-nightlife/music-lovers-plea-save-plymouths-3513185)


        Plymouth’s live music scene and rich musical history could become a thing of the past - as once loved venues now leave an empty shell of memories behind.
      

        A passionate supporter of the city's music culture, journalism student Talia Heggs has written for Plymouth Live about how things can be turned around.
      
A concerning amount of once thriving hubs have closed over the years, as Plymouth City Council’s efforts to regenerate the city through the demolition of multiple music establishments has left the city falling short of mid-size venues, as well as losing its sparkle for live events, writes Talia.
Victims of the Plymouth regeneration scheme included The White Rabbit, finding itself in hot water during the plans of redevelopment for Bretonside, and never found an alternative venue to locate into.
This year saw The Hub in Millbay close its doors as plans for housing development got underway.
Venues off a 500 capacity are considered a vital ‘stepping stone’ for musicians and concert goers alike - the jump from pubs and bars to arenas is a big, almost impossible one, with the city now being a less favourable location for up and coming bands and artists looking to tour the UK.
However, Plymouth does not fall short of venues with huge potential to fill the medium sized capacity holes in local’s hearts.
Here are a few venues, with a touch of TLC, could give the music lovers and artists the platform that our ocean city desperately needs.
Built in 1898, The Palace Theatre located on Union Street has not been a stranger to major performances, staging gigs in the early 2000s alongside house and trance nights, which received national recognition.
Regeneration attempts included plans to restore the ballroom into a theatre again. The 1000 plus capacity could act as the perfect stepping stone for ‘fresh on the scene’ bands in a grand location and breathe some fresh air into the once popular party strip of Union Street.
Mayflower Street could also be home to the much needed venue revival- the building above a row of shops once known to be one of Plymouth’s biggest clubs, with multiple names including Zanzibar, Powerhouse and The Fiesta Suite, now stands empty.
Potential occupier talks have been had for its’ re-opening last year, and the large unit holds much potential for a music scene resurrection.
A unique and historic building that serves as a multi-purpose venue, in walking distance from the city centre bars. The council owned establishment with potential for great acoustics would be a great hive for music, previously hosting star studded concerts including David Bowie and Queen.
It’s availability for hire and suggestions for music events from council leader Tudor Evans makes it a top contender.
Located a stone’s throw away from where The Hub used to be, Plymouth Athenaeum is currently operating as a social venue, home to science, art and literature. Earlier this year, plans were displayed demonstrating a major revamp of its interior, ripping out permanent seats to create an area for standing.
Although events do take place regularly here, its a stand out potential location with a 500 standing capacity, looking like the ideal spot musicians are on the hunt for.
Another potential big hitter again located on the desolate Union Street, which was once Plymouth’s most famous streets for nightlife. Millennium Nightclub, a once busy cinema in the 1930’s, followed by a lively night scene with respectable capacity until 2004.
Trading ceased in the 2000s with plan to turn the building into student accommodation, but work came to a standstill in 2016 and hasn’t seen any signs of life since. The perfect spot to rally your mates together for some live music, in walking distance from the remaining clubs open in the city.
It’s safe to say our Ocean City is not short of locations. A re-enlightenment of venues will encourage an array of new music, and allow the magic to really prosper. Plymouth is a beautiful city, with a significant and proud history and still so many hidden talents ready to be unveiled.
And without medium-sized local venues in which to perform, where do up-and-coming aspiring local artists have the opportunity to fulfil their potential? The emergence of a vital stepping stone facility would act as the perfect gateway for cultural and creative opportunities, a stage for exposure, and encourage bands and gig-goers alike to head down to the South West, to revive a scene that was once so well loved.
Plymouth has been home to some of the best and well-recognised live music events known throughout the South West, including MTV Crashes Plymouth which has brought a number of top artists and huge hits to the city.
In addition to live outdoor events, there are many venues hosting weekly gigs and concerts as well as organised live music events showcasing local and not so local talent throughout the year.
Get involved in your local open mic night. Multiple venues in Plymouth run regular open mic spots in order to support local musicians, as well as get involved for yourself. Check out Open Mic Finder at to see events near you.
The final night of the annual music event held in the summer months on Plymouth Hoe shines a spotlight on local bands and performers, voted by Radio Plymouth listeners. Free entry for four hours of live, local music in an idyllic, (hopefully sunny) location.
Dates and times TBC for a 2020 performance.
A hand curated program of events showcasing the South West's finest talent in Plymouth Pavilions most intimate setting to date, including a St Patricks Day special from Mad Dog Mcrea.
Their next event falls on Friday the 15 th of November 2019, with tickets available for £11.20 at www.plymouthpavilions.com
