
# ‘Fortnite’ Locations: Where To Visit A Boat Launch, The Coral Cove And Flopper Pond

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dave Thier**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidthier/2019/11/04/fortnite-locations-where-to-visit-a-boat-launch-the-coral-cove-and-flopper-pond/)

Time to stretch out and explore the map. At first blush, Fortnite chapter 2 is a whole lot more restrained than what the map had become by the end of chapter 1: there’s no crumbled Ice Palace, no massive Volcano given way to to defunct robot factory, no rock lovers separated by a lava flow. By the end of its ten seasons, chapter 1 wore its strange history on the outside to the degree that this reset became necessary, but that doesn’t mean that there aren’t small pieces of discovery to be had in this new map. And so that’s the theme of one of these “Dockyard Deal” challenges, which pushes us out to see exactly what’s going on in this great empty expanse ahead of us. Let’s see the locations for the boat launch, Coral Cove and Flopper Pond in Fortnite: Battle Royale. You don’t need to visit all three of these in one trip, but of course you can if you’re so inclined: the boat launch is going to be the tricky one. Regardless, they constitute a trip down the western seaboard of the island. From north to south, we’re working with Coral Cover, Flopper Pond and Boat Launch:
They’re three interesting little locations. In the North, Coral Cove is a kind of seashell village, an idyllic little paradise where you will nonetheless smash the small huts of the islanders to get the sweet treasure inside. Flopper Pond is idyllic in a very different way: somewhat reminiscent of Walden Pond, it’s a small cabin on a little puddle where you can sit on the dock and serenely fish for sniper rifles with which to blow your opponents heads off with or, more likely, get your own head blown off with one of said sniper rifles.
The boat launch is the fun one of the three, however: it’s a kind of a movie set, where there’s a boom mic and a camera accompanying a boat perched on the edge of a cliff, not much water in sight. Which is handy, because boats in this game are surprisingly versatile visa vi land. The boat launch is also the site of one of the flaming rings that you need to jump through for another one of this weeks’ challenges.
