
# Bonhill fundraisers continue to campaign despite cystic fibrosis breakthrough

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:45:36+00:00**

Author: **Lorraine Weir**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/bonhill-fundraisers-continue-campaign-despite-20815852)

A Bonhill mum and daughter who have fought for treatment for cystic fibrosis sufferers say their work will continue despite life-changing drugs being licensed for use across the UK.
Scotland led the way in September when it was announced a deal had been struck with pharmaceutical firm Vertex to use Symkevi and Orkambi across the NHS.
And now England, Northern Ireland and Wales have followed suit.
But Maggie and Kelli Gallacher have vowed they will continue to fundraise for gene therapy which is key in the treatment of cystic fibrosis to the 10 percent of people who cannot benefit from the drugs.
Maggie explained to the Lennox Herald : “Ten percent of the CF population will not be able to be treated by these drugs which is why gene therapy is still so important.
“Kelli is very determined that nobody is left behind.
“The focus has been on getting the drugs for the majority but we can’t forget about the people who have rare mutations. We need to continue to help these people.
“It’s not fair to be penalised just because you’ve got a rare mutation.”
To fundraise for the continuing work of gene therapy scientists, the Flutterby Fundraisers charity founded by the Gallacher family will hold its annual Big Night Oot at the Erskine Bridge Hotel this Friday.

        Busy West Dunbartonshire route named as one of the country's most dangerous
      
The event sees dozens of people come together to help raise money which will continue to fund life-changing gene therapy.
The UK Cystic Fibrosis Gene Therapy Consortium is made up of world-renowned research groups of the universities of Edinburgh, Oxford and Imperial College, London.
In 2015, they published the results of a revolutionary trial which showed the lung function in cystic fibrosis patients had improved compared to those who were given a placebo.
Flutterby Fundraisers are committed to continuing to fund gene therapy in order to help those who cannot be treated with Symkevi and Orkambi.
It has been a landmark year for Kelli who, after an emotional appeal to Nicola Sturgeon last year in which she begged the First Minister not to let her die, she took delivery of her first batch of Symkevi in April.
Since then, Maggie says she has seen a massive improvement in her 25-year-old daughter who suffers from the genetic lung condition.
She told us: “Her lung function has gone up from 49 percent to 61 percent, she’s just a different girl.
“She’s put on weight although is suffering from chronic fatigue which is a side effect of the drug but she needs to work on that.
“Her whole outlook on life has changed though.”

        West Dunbartonshire workers to stage demo over bank holiday shake-up
      
The new drug which can dramatically enhance the life expectancy of 31 which a cystic fibrosis patient faces was made available to Kelli and others on a case-by-case basis earlier in the year.
It was then licensed for use across the NHS in Scotland in September despite a knockback from the Scottish Medicines Consortium .
Dumbarton MSP Jackie Baillie was among those who joined Kelli and her campaign and, at the time, Maggie praised health secretary Jeane Freeman for her assistance in securing the five-year-deal for the drug.
However Maggie also confirmed that another drug, Trikafta, which could supercede even Symkevi and Orkambi could be availble to people in the UK after it was licensed for use in the USA and is currently being considered by the European Medicines Agency.
For more local news, click here
