
# Latest on Jack Grealish and Aston Villa injury list in full as Wolves loom

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Ashley Preece, https://www.facebook.com/PreeceBirminghamLive/, Jonny Bonell**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-injury-latest-wolves-14251861)

Aston Villa will be looking to bounce back from successive defeats against the Premier League's top two when they travel to Wolverhampton Wanderers this weekend.
After losing 3-0 to Manchester City at the Etihad the weekend before, Andrew Robertson and Sadio Mane scored late goals to seal a 2-1 win for Liverpool at Villa Park on Saturday.
Villa captain Jack Grealish injured his calf in that loss away to City and so missed the Liverpool defeat, as well as the Carabao Cup meeting with Wolves earlier in the week.
Now attentions turn to the Molineux trip and Grealish's fitness will be a hot topic this week for Villa fans, while there is the boost of seeing James Chester back on the field following his run out for the under-23s against Newcastle United on Monday night.

        Here's Villa's injury list in full...
      
Injury: Hamstring
Details: Substituted after 50 minutes of his third start of the season.
Last match: Wednesday, October 30 - Villa 2-1 Wolves, 50 minutes.
Expected return date: Manchester United (away), December 1.
What Smith has said: " He's had a scan and he's got a hamstring injury. It's likely he'll be out for three to four weeks. The only good thing with that is that we've got an international period which can eat a few days into his injury. It's a blow because he's been doing well. He's been pushing Wes."
Injury: Calf
Details: Was taken off in the closing stages against Manchester City with a knock to his calf. Was later seen leaving The Etihad on crutches. Smith revealed after the Wolves win that he is responding well to treatment and wouldn't have been picked for the the Carabao Cup win anyway.
Last match: Saturday, October 26 - Man City 3 Villa 0, 84 minutes.
Expected return date: Wolves (A), November 10.
What Smith has said: “Jack’s calf was just not right at the weekend. Hopefully he will be training on Thursday at the latter part of the week.”
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Injury: Hernia
Details: Underwent surgery during the previous international break while uploading a photo from hospital following the successful op. Needs time to fully recover now after playing with hernia pain, even with Blues.
Last match: Wednesday, September 25 - Brighton 1 Villa 3, 90 minutes.
Expected return date: Wolves (A), November 10.
What's been said: "Jota will be back joining training so we have got a lot of numbers coming back."
Injury: Hamstring
Details: Has been out of first-team action ever since tweaking his hamstring during the Shrewsbury Town pre-season friendly. Missed friendlies at Walsall, Charlton and Leipzig after that but is back and is currently building up his match fitness, making his first appearance in a match-day squad of the season against Wolves in the cup.
Last match: Monday 4 November - Villa U23s vs Newcastle United U23s.
Expected return date: Soon. Back in a match-day squad and ready to return.
What's been said:   O'Kelly suggested that Chester 's return could be imminent: "James Chester has stepped his training up. (He's) looking very good.
"The other thing with James Chester as well is he sounds good, his personality and character is fantastic to have within the group and it's fantastic to have him back out there.
"He is a really positive character, he drives people and he will be great to have back in the squad."
