
# This new Android Auto app fixes a problem Google created for newer phones

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:30:41+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/android-auto-phone-screens-resurrects-android-auto-android-10-phones?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Back in May 2019, Google announced at I/O that it would be replacing Android Auto on phones in the future with a new solution. It would be known as Assistant Driving Mode, and while it would replace Android Auto on phones, Android Auto would continue to live on as a separate entity on car head units.

        Source: Android Central
      
Assistant Driving Mode never had a set release date, but it was expected to launch by summer with plenty of time before the launch of Android 10. Unfortunately, development has taken longer than expected and Assistant Driving Mode has yet to be released.
That would have been fine, except Google was betting on Assistant Driving Mode already being released and broke Android Auto with the release of Android 10 for some users.
Fortunately, there is now a solution for those of you who have been missing Android Auto since upgrading to Android 10, with the Android Auto for phone screens app. By installing this app, it should once again restore access to Android Auto on your Android 10 phone.
The app is only compatible with Android 10 on certain devices. If you've still got access to the old Android Auto app, then this is not for you. However, for those of you who lost access after Android 10, this should get you back up and running. At least until Google replaces it with Assistant Driving Mode in the future.

        Android Auto's 2019 update is dramatically better, and makes me love it all over again
      

        One eternity later Hey Google — why hasn't my Pixel 4 gotten the November security patch? The Pixel 4 is Google's latest flagship smartphone, so why is it still stuck on the October security patch?
      

        🐠🐡🐟🦈 Something fishy's going on: How Google names in-development Pixels Did you know your Pixel phone was named after a fish? Check out the faces behind the names for Google's Pixel line.
      

        Smarter Smart Screens You no longer have to ask your Google Smart Display when a photo was taken Google Photos on smart displays now shows the date and the length of time since a photo was taken. Huzzah!
      

        Connect to Android Auto Best USB-C Cables for Android Auto in 2019 Android Auto is an absolutely necessity when you’re driving, regardless of whether its up to the store or for a long vacation. These cables will ensure that your phone stays protected, and charged, no matter what.
      
