
# Stop Putting Your Online Privacy and Security at Risk And Get a VPN

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Futurism Creative**

Original: [Futurism](https://futurism.com/sitelock-vpn-online-privacy)

These days, we do pretty much everything online. And every time you shop, or bank, or order food, or stream movies, or order a cab, or file your taxes, or pay your bills, or send a work email, or use a cloud service, you send sensitive personal information out onto the Internet where just about everybody is trying to collect it. So what are you doing to protect that information? If your answer falls anywhere between “nothing” and “I’m not really sure,” the first thing you need to do is get a VPN. And it just so happens that SiteLock, one of the most trusted names in website security, has just launched its own VPN service.
A VPN, or virtual private network, is the online security equivalent of putting a lock on the front door of your house. There are two main reasons why everyone needs one. First, a VPN protects you against hackers who want to steal your personal information. Second, a virtual private network protects your privacy, letting you do what you want on the Internet without worrying that your activity will be easily monitored or traced back to you.
When you sign up for a third-party virtual private network, you get access to special software that creates an encrypted tunnel between you and one of the VPN’s servers. When you connect to the Internet, all the information you send out travels through that encrypted tunnel to the VPN server, then from the server to whatever website you are interacting with. In this way, all of your information is secure from prying eyes, and all of your online activity looks like it’s coming from the server instead of you. That means you can shop online without hackers stealing your credit card number; click on a link without data brokerage companies tracking your IP address; or download books and movies without your internet service provider keeping a detailed record of it.
Just like putting a lock on the front door of your house, almost any VPN service is better than no virtual private network. However, if you’re really serious about online security and privacy, there are several features you’re going to want to look for in a VPN service.
The first thing you’ll want to look at is the company’s logging policy. Depending on where in the world a virtual private network company is headquartered, they may be required by law to keep detailed records of everything you do online—even though privacy and anonymity might be the reasons you got a VPN in the first place. If you don’t want a hacker or government agency looking at your online activity, find a virtual private network service with a strict “no logging” policy.
Another essential thing you’ll want to look for in a virtual private network service is connection speeds. When you use a VPN, your data gets rerouted through different servers all around the world, which can result in slower connection speeds. However, this problem can be solved if a company maintains a large network of the most advanced servers.
Last but not least, when looking for a virtual private network, you’ll want to make sure it’s secure against DNS leaks. A DNS leak is a security flaw in some browsers, operating systems, and VPN applications that allow some of your traffic to “leak” out at the entrance to your private encrypted tunnel. And that again means that your online activity is not 100-percent private.
Luckily, SiteLock’s new VPN service meets all of these essential requirements.
When you sign up with SiteLock’s virtual private network, you get total security and privacy without sacrificing connection speeds.
Worried about setting up your virtual private network? Not sure you’ll be able to troubleshoot if you encounter problems? Don’t worry. Just like their top-rated website security services, SiteLock’s VPN service comes with 24/7 U.S.-based customer support. When you sign up, you’ll be able to call, email, or chat with a customer support representative any time, day or night, 365 days a year.
SiteLock VPN is available on a monthly basis for those who are just looking to try it out. However, SiteLock VPN is also available in one-year and two-year subscriptions, which save you 40 and 60 percent respectively off the monthly price.
So if you’re looking to ramp up your online security, you won’t find a quality virtual private network at a more affordable price. So click here to learn more about Sitelock VPN.

        Futurism fans: To create this content, a non-editorial team worked with an affiliate partner. We may collect a small commission on items purchased through this page. This post does not necessarily reflect the views or the endorsement of the Futurism.com editorial staff.
      
