
# ‘Me and Pitso Fight Every Day’

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/mamelodi-sundowns/phakamani-mahlambi-opens-up-about-his-relationship-with-pitso-mosimane/666882)

In an exclusive interview with Soccer Laduma, Phakamani Mahlambi opened up about his relationship with Pitso Mosimane, admitting that they ‘fight’ every day.
The 22-year-old has had a slow start to the 2019/20 campaign dealing with injury troubles which has seen him feature just four times for the Brazilians so far. 

        
          Read more: 6 Chiefs Players Linked With New Deals At Naturena
        
      
Now, with Mauricio Affonso and Jose Ali Meza coming in to the fold, it has been tough for the young striker to break back into the team. 
However, in an exclusive interview with Soccer Laduma this week, Mahlambi revealed how much of a role Mosimane plays in his everyday life at Sundowns as he looks to get back on track with his form.
“Me and the coach fight every day. Not like in a bad way, because he wants the best out of me. So, every day, we are fighting,” Mahlambi said.
“There’s no day that passes without him shouting at me or without him calling me. I feel like it’s a relationship between a father and a son, with the tough love inside for me to do good. He wants to see me being the best player – that’s what he told me and that’s what he is working towards. I’m happy because if he does not shout at me, maybe I will feel like he is not a good coach anymore. We fight, but I feel like it’s good,” he added.
Mahlambi also opens up on:

        
          To read the full interview, check out this week’s edition of Soccer Laduma, issue number 1148 
        
      
