
# What To Drink Now In Amelia Island, Florida

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gina Pace**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ginapace/2019/10/31/what-to-drink-now-in-amelia-island-florida/)

This small island packs a big Pirate Punch.Florida’s Amelia Island, the southernmost island in the Sea Island chain on the Atlantic Coast, and about 35 minutes from Jacksonville. Fall is a great time to go. The summer crowds have cleared out and the weather is in the 70s with tons of sunshine.
And while you should definitely check out the beach and all the coastal activities like fishing, paddle boarding and kayaking, leave plenty of time to sip some drinks. Downtown Fernandina Beach, the city that comprises most of the island, is very walkable and perfect for a bar crawl. Here’s what you should be drinking while you’re on the island:
This is Florida’s oldest continually-operating drinking establishment, dating back to 1903. You might catch the mayor, Johnny Miller, bartending. Belly up to the handsome bar designed with the help of Adolphus Busch, the founder of Anheuser-Busch, check out the impressive Mahogany caryatids (female sculptural figures, duh). The Palace serves a couple Florida beers on tap, including Intuition made in Jacksonville, and Cigar City from Tampa. There’s also the famous Pirate Punch, but, try it at your own risk. It’s a sugary combination of fruit juices and liquors served in a souvenir plastic cup, and locals warn it goes down waaaay too easy.
This distillery makes vodkas and rums with local produce and Florida molasses. Owner Roger Morenc sources peppers from a county away from B&D Sauce Co. to make his popular Venture Smoked Pepper Vodka which will add some extra oomph to a Bloody Mary. The distillery offers free tours on Saturday, with a tasting room and gift shop open every day but Tuesday.
And then try another Bloody Mary at this open-air seafood restaurant which is a meal in itself. It’s got skewers of pickled vegetables, grilled meat and even shrimp. But then actually get some food because the fried shrimp here is locally caught and delicious.
Beer is made in-house at this sleek brew pub. You can get a board of four small pours and try varieties like the peachy Margo American Wheat Ale, and the Sm’kn M’rtha Smoked Porter.
On the South Side of the Island, opposite Fernandina Beach is where the island’s two resorts are. The Ritz-Carlton has some show-stopping cocktails at its Lobby Bar, like the gigantic infuser near the entrance which serves up a daily blend of bourbon with fruits and spices. But to take it up a notch, order a tableside infusion. You can customize what you want your drink to taste like — one popular option is apple pie. Staff bring out a Japanese coffee syphon to your table and put the spirit in the bottom glass chamber and then the fresh apple, cinnamon and other spices in the top. The bottom chamber is then heated with a flame, and as the spirit warms up, it travels to the top chamber where it mingles with the fruit. Once it cools, the temperature change and gravity suck it back to the bottom — but full of the other flavors.
The Omni recently revamped their cocktail menu to let drinks pick flavors they like, along with a Pouring Ribbons-style grid to let them know how sprit forward or refreshing it will be. But, you’re in Florida, so get at least semi-tropical and try the Tropicali, a mango cocktail with a floater of molasses-heavy Cruzan Blackstrap Rum. 
