
# Yes, ‘Joker’ Will Probably Top $1 Billion At The Worldwide Box Office

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Mendelson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/scottmendelson/2019/11/03/yes-joker-will-probably-top-1-billion-at-the-worldwide-box-office/)

With a strong hold this weekend and a $934 million global cume, the $1 billion mark seems more likely than not for DC Films’ $60 million comic book drama.In holdover news, Warner Bros. and DC Films’ Joker once again showed remarkable staying power, confirming itself as the Halloween season scary movie of choice. The Joaquin Phoenix flick earned another $13.925 million (-28%) for a $299.612 million domestic cume. So, either it’ll cross $300 million tonight (presuming the final weekend grosses are higher than the estimates) or it’ll do so very early tomorrow. It’s the first 2019 release not related to Disney or Marvel to cross $300 million domestic this year and (save for maybe Jumanji: The Next Level) it could be the last. With holds like this, it could end up over/under $335 million domestic (or just over/under the likes of Suicide Squad, Guardians of the Galaxy, Spider-Man 3, Spider-Man: Far from Home and Aquaman) in the end.
The Todd Phillips-directed flick earned another $37 million in 10,600 theaters in 79 markets, dropping just 24% from last weekend. The film has earned a ridiculous $634.4 million overseas total for a 32%/68% domestic/overseas split and a $934 million global cume. With holds like this, Joker will probably pass $1 billion worldwide without a penny from China. If the film continues this path, even with WB’s own Doctor Sleep opening next weekend, then it should get to the milestone within two or three weeks. And, yes, it could end up over even The Dark Knight ($1.004 billion in 2008) to become one of WB’s fourth-biggest global grosser behind The Dark Knight Rises, Aquaman and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part II.
In other holdover news, two of Universal’s original releases, Abominable and Yesterday, both crossed $150 million worldwide. The former is still a disappointment for DreamWorks Animation and Pearl Studio, as Jill Culton’s (great) animated adventure didn’t catch on here or abroad. Still, a $160 million-plus cume on a $75 million budget is a whiff without being a catastrophe. Danny Boyle and Richard Curtis’ leggy “What if everyone forgot about the Beatles but you?” romantic dramedy has earned 5.8x its $26 million budget and was among the few genuine studio programmer hits last summer. I will still mourn for the relative failure of Abominable (even if Universal will make money), but at least Universal is putting out originals like Good Boys and Us that are pulling solid numbers.  
Meanwhile, Walt Disney’s Maleficent: Mistress of Evil 412.175 million (-37%) in its third weekend, giving it an $84.3 million 17 day cume. That should position the $185 million Walt Disney flick for an eventual domestic total of around $115 million domestic, on par with Dumbo ($113 million). However, it current domestic/overseas (22.2/77.8) is remarkable, as the film has earned $298 million overseas for a $383 million cume. If it holds the line here and abroad, we may see a global cume as large as $518 million worldwide. That’s a big “if,” but Maleficent: Mistress of Evil could be the first mega-budget movie truly “saved” by overseas box office. That doesn’t mean Disney should rush out and greenlight Maleficent 3, but it’ll mean something.
The Addams Family grossed $8.5 million (-25%) in its fourth weekend, giving MGM and United Artists’ $42 million toon a solid $85.3 million domestic and (with Universal distributing overseas) $129.3 million worldwide. Sony and Columbia’s Zombieland: Double Tap earned $7.35 million (-38%) in weekend three for a decent $59.3 million domestic and $87 million worldwide cume. The $42 million sequel might just reach its predecessor’s (unadjusted) $75 million domestic finish (back in 2009 on a $23 million budget). STX’s Countdown, which was more fun than I was expecting (the second half leans into its goofiness), grossed $5.85 million (-34%) weekend two for a $17.766 million ten-day cume. It’ll do for a cheap flick with a targeted marketing campaign.
Sony’s terrific Black and Blue earned $4.05 million (-52%) in its second weekend for a  $15.44 million ten-day total. Yes, Harriet dinged it a little, but if only everyone yammering about Naomi Harris staring as Moneypenny in the 007 flicks or being one of the villains in Venom 2 gave as much of a damn about Harris in her own R-rated, of-the-moment topical action vehicle. Movies like Andrea Berloff’s The Kitchen and Deon Taylor’s Black and Blue are exactly what we all claimed the end game for pushes toward diversity and inclusivity were supposed to be, and yet nobody is showing up. Hollywood will eventually stop trying, and then you’ll have absolutely no one to blame but yourselves. As always, vote with your wallet.
Neon’s Parasite expanded to 463 theaters in weekend and earned $2.6 million (+41%) for a decent $5,705 per-theater average and a robust $7.53 million 24-day cume. I must assume this one has a $20 million ceiling, but I’ll happily eat crow if this terrific thriller keeps going all the way until Oscar season. Speaking of Oscars, JoJo Rabbit grossed $2.401 million (+127%) in 256 theaters for a decent $9,379 per-theater average and still-promising $4.286 million 17-day cume. The Lighthouse expanded to 978 theaters on Friday and has passed $7 million in 17 days of domestic release. Gemini Man will earn $1.2 million (-54%) for a $47 million 24-day cume while The Current War will fall 54% for a $1.2 million weekend and $5 million ten-day cume.
