
# Alexander-Arnold admits captaincy dream

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:28:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/EnglishPremiership/alexander-arnold-admits-captaincy-dream-20191101)

Cape Town - Liverpool defender Trent Alexander-Arnold admits that it would fulfil a lifelong dream if he were made captain of his boyhood club one day.
The right-back is one game short of making 100 appearances for Liverpool and is expected to reach that mark on Saturday when the Reds travel to Aston Villa.
It has been a whirlwind start to the young Liverpudlian’s career after making his first-team bow in October 2016 in an League Cup win against Tottenham.
He then took advantage of Nathaniel Clyne’s injury problems at the time and has now cemented a first-team spot in the defence.
Alexander-Arnold has been widely praised for his attacking ability and energy in Jurgen Klopp’s side and regularly sets goals up with his assist record particularly impressive.
The 21-year-old laid on 12 goals for team-mates in the 2018-19 season, which is a record for a defender, while he already has three to his name in all competitions so far this term.
Ahead of the trip to Villa on Saturday afternoon, he has been speaking about his potential future at Anfield. The England international admits he would love to captain his boyhood club one day and wants to stay as long as possible to achieve that aim.
"I am not shy in saying that (being captain) is a dream for me. Whether it comes true or not is not up to me; I don’t pick who is captain.
"But that is something I would love to do one day. Captaining Liverpool is something I have always dreamed of and it is something that motivates me."
Alexander-Arnold has scored five goals in his 99 appearances for Liverpool and was also instrumental in helping them win the Champions League last season.
His quick-thinking from a corner kick in the second leg of the semi-final against Barcelona saw him deliver an early ball for Divock Origi to score what proved to be the winning goal, as it dragged them from 3-0 down to win the tie 4-3.
His good form led to an England debut in May 2018 and Gareth Southgate selected him for his World Cup squad that summer.
A debut against Costa Rica at Elland Road in a pre-tournament friendly followed, and he scored his first Three Lions goal in a friendly against the USA in November 2018.

        
          - TeamTalk Media
        
      
