
# Council housing chief Sharon Thompson confirms bid to become city's first black MP

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:09:01+00:00**

Author: **Jane Haynes, https://www.facebook.com/politicsandpeoplebrum/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/council-housing-chief-sharon-thompson-17182116)

Housing chief Sharon Thompson has put herself forward to become the city's first black MP - but her chances are looking remote.
Cllr Thompson, Birmingham City Council's cabinet member for housing, is on the shortlist to take on sitting MP Roger Godsiff for the right to represent Labour in the safe seat of Hall Green.
But, to the frustration of Thompson, other candidates and local party members, Labour HQ looks set to impose Godsiff as the candidate by default because of the imminent General Election. 
Subject to confirmation from the party's National Executive Committee (NEC), it's likely that Godsiff will be announced as the candidate in the next few days.
Doing so would go against the wishes of party activists who did not endorse him at recent reselection meetings. They instead wanted the chance to consider other options.
But we understand that Labour chiefs feel they have little option, given the proximity of the election on December 12th, but to support the sitting MP who has returned back to back wins in one of the party's safest seats.
View our story about the reselection decision HERE
Some activists, speaking anonymously, said several letters have been sent to the NEC about their concerns over Godsiff representing them, expressing particular anger at Godsiff's support for protesters campaigning outside Anderton Park primary i n Sparkhill over LGBT equality messages.
The school has been on the receiving end of months of protests, led by Muslim activists, to shut down mention of same sex families and the equality of LGBT people, including use of picture books featuring 'two mummies'. Campaigners and some parents say this contravenes their religious beliefs and values.
Anger was further aroused by a letter sent by Godsiff recently, targeted at some Labour members, which urged them to back his selection. The letter, shared with BirminghamLive, highlights the ways Godsiff has supported Muslim constituents.
It also urges them not to believe any other Labour candidates who contacted them as they may be 'misleading' and would 'make promises - but do not be fooled.'
One local activist said the letter was an example of Godsiff's attempts to secure the votes of traditional Muslims.
In his letter Godsiff says:
* he is the only MP who has stood up for Muslim parents over the Anderton Park school issue. He writes: "I have spoken out in support of Muslim parents who were protesting about the way their young children were being encouraged to examine their sexuality without any parental involvement. No other politician has been prepared to publicly support the Muslim parents."
 
* he has long campaigned for self determination for Kashmir, saying: "I am not afraid to speak out on controversial issues. I have supported and championed the right to self determination for the people of Kashmir and for an independent Palestinian state.
* he has resolved 'thousands' of issues 'for my Muslim residents'.
One Labour source said the letter showed that Mr Godsiff was continuing to ignore concerns about his framing of the school protests, despite being 'spoken to' by Labour's chief whip Nick Brown.
"He continues to misrepresent the issue of LGBT equality messages, talking about sexualising, and parroting the views of protest leaders who are not even parents at the school."   
A judge is due to rule any day on whether to make permanent an exclusion zone around the primary school to prevent further protests at the gates, following a five day high court hearing.
 
We have attempted to contact Mr Godsiff without success.
For Cllr Sharon Thompson, the chance to become the city's first black MP would have been the logical next step in her political career.
Speaking to BirminghamLive today she said: "When I was a homeless teenager, St Basil's (a charity supporting homeless young people) moved me into Hall Green constituency to live closer to my nan in her final days.
"I have fond memories and family and friends who live locally.
"I put myself forward to join Labour MPs in Parliament to fight for better school funding, youth services for local young people and work to fix the damage caused by austerity.
"As Cabinet Member for Housing, I know the challenges of dealing with a national crisis. We need national policy changes. I want to work with local people and fight for them nationally. Parliament needs people from every background and I was ready to serve as the Labour Party representative for Hall Green and wanted to become Birmingham's first black MP."
In an interview earlier this year Thompson shared her early experiences which included spells of homelessness, becoming a young single mum and her first forays into politics.
Read the full interview HERE
Under Labour party rules, a selection ballot can be triggered by local members who do not wish to automatically endorse the sitting MP. At meetings held last month, three out of four branches iin Hall Green voted for an open selection process. Godsiff, as the sitting MP, would have been automatically included in the ballot.
This would usually be held following a selection meeting.
However, the announcement of a General Election came with the process only part completed. Earlier this week the NEC decided to halt reselection processes, meaning Labour MPs who are not retiring or suspended will be automatically reselected, but they are each subject to NEC endorsement.
The seat is one of the party's safest in the country. At the 2017 General Election Godsiff retained his seat with a majority of 33,944, up nearly 18 per cent on the previous election.
