
# Sunday night shift: Hamilton wins it, Verstappen and Leclerc exchange words!

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nicolás Quarles van Ufford**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49408/sunday-night-shift-hamilton-wins-it-verstappen-and-leclerc-exchange-words-.html)


        In case you missed any of Sunday night's action at the Circuit of the Americas or what unfolded after, we have you covered as we break down the main stories from Sunday.
      
Lewis Hamilton only needed four points or he needed Valtteri Bottas not to win to clinch his third consecutive championship and his sixth overall.
Bottas did win the race as the Finn drove an excellent race, but Hamilton finished just behind him, meaning the 34-year-old is now the second driver ever to have won six Formula 1 championships after Michael Schumacher.
The race saw Max Verstappen finish in third and Charles Leclerc in fourth place, with the other Ferrari of Sebastian Vettel retiring early as the German's suspension snapped after just nine laps of the race. Sergio Perez, who started from the pitlane, did ever so well to finish in P10.

        Read the full race report here
      
After the United States Grand Prix, in which Ferrari looked nowhere near as quick as in previous weeks where they mostly set the pace, Verstappen said the lack of pace was "what happens when you stop cheating".
Red Bull had previously asked the FIA to restate what the rules are around fuel flow into the power unit, with the Bulls reportedly suspicious of the Ferrari power unit breaking the rules. Although no official complaint was made and therefore no FIA investigation was launched, Ferrari suddenly were slower at COTA compared to Mercedes and Red Bull, particularly on the straights. Verstappen connected the two things.

        Read the full story here
      
Reacting to Verstappen's comments, Leclerc disregarded the Dutchman's accusation, saying Verstappen is in no position to make such claims as he's not near the team and therefore can't know what's going on and why the car does or doesn't perform well.
Leclerc added he thought Verstappen was joking, although his tone certainly didn't suggest so. The two 22-year-olds are certainly developing a rivalry in front of our eyes!

        Read the full story here
      
