
# Did Frank Sinatra Secretly Give Marilyn Monroe A Blancpain Diamond Watch?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Anthony DeMarco**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/anthonydemarco/2019/11/01/did-frank-sinatra-give-marilyn-monroe-a-blancpain-diamond-watch/)

Lawrence Schiller is an American producer, screenwriter and photographer. He’s had a storied career that resulted in at least 11 books as well as numerous television and film productions in which he earned seven Emmys and an Oscar. In addition, in his early years as photographer, he conducted many high-profile photojournalist assignments with the nation’s best-known magazines at the time, capturing images of the most famous and infamous figures during the 1960s, a turbulent time in American history. However, he remains best known for two photo shoots of Marilyn Monroe early in his career when he was in his 20s.
He was one of the two guests of honor at the October 30 opening of the “Timeless Elegance” exhibition at the Blancpain 5th Avenue boutique (actress, Naomi Watts was the other). The show, which runs till November 23, features objects owned by Monroe and historic collections of women’s watches created by the luxury brand. The featured item on display is a 1930s Blancpain diamond cocktail watch owned by the iconic actress and model. The petite women’s platinum and diamond Art Deco cocktail watch is stamped “KO 900 Plat 100 Irid” and numbered “115557.” The watch and bracelet are set with round cut and marquise diamonds. The watch dial reads Blancpain and the mechanical movement is signed “Blancpain, Rayville Watch Co.” The bracelet is completed with a fold-over clasp with more round diamonds.
Blancpain purchased the watch at auction for $225,000 in 2016, more than double its high estimate at Julien’s Auctions in Los Angeles, and it has since been out of the public eye until the October 30 unveiling.
Despite Monroe’s famous portrayal of the diamond obsessed Lorelei Lee in the 1953 film, “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes,” Monroe is said to have owned very few pieces of fine jewelry. Adding more intrigue is that nothing is known about how Monroe obtained the timepiece.
This is where Schiller comes in. He not only knew Monroe but through his work, he personally knew her second and third husbands, baseball great Joe DiMaggio and acclaimed playwright, Arthur Miller. Because of this inside knowledge, Schiller has developed a theory of who gave Monroe the bejeweled timepiece.
“Everybody wants to know who bought the watch for her and I have a theory,” Schiller told a dinner crowd at the St. Regis following the opening night exhibition. “I know both of those men and I don’t think either one of them would have bought the watch for her. DiMaggio was too macho to give her a watch like that. Arthur Miller, all he wanted to do was write about her.”
He continued, “There was a secret that very few people knew.” That secret was Frank Sinatra owned an apartment building on Doheny Drive on the edge of Beverly Hills. According to a Zillow listing, both Sinatra and Monroe lived there at separate times.
“There’s a white building on the right you can park three cars underneath and the apartments were on the top. That little building was owned by Frank Sinatra. That’s where Marilyn hid out when she didn’t want to be in Brentwood. That’s where she always was and she spent some time with Frank. Then when (Sinatra) was in Lake Tahoe, he would invite her up all the time. And Sinatra was the type of person that always had somebody doing something for him. So I can really believe quite honestly that if Sinatra wanted to say thank you to her he might have arranged to have (purchased) the watch for her.”
