
# Skoda Kamiq SUV seen in India for the first time

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Akbar Merchant**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/skoda-kamiq-suv-seen-in-india-for-the-first-time-414808)

Skoda’s midsize SUV for India will have much in common with the international-spec Kamiq that’s been spotted.
While Skoda’s much talked-about midsize SUV for India will only get its first showing at Auto Expo 2020 in concept form before going on sale in 2021, the model that it will be derived from – the Skoda Kamiq – has been spotted in India for the very first time. The Kamiq is Skoda’s smallest SUV yet, and the version pictured seems to be a European-spec model. This SUV is understood to be here for testing.
In a nutshell, the Kamiq is Skoda’s Hyundai Creta-sized SUV, which is built on the Volkswagen Group’s MQB A0 platform. However, the yet-unnamed Skoda SUV for India will be built on the ‘Indian-ised’ MQB A0 IN platform. In size, the SUV will measure 4.2-4.3m in length, and is expected to sport a slightly longer wheelbase than international versions, in the interest of greater rear seat space. While the overall design will likely be very close to that of the international Kamiq, the India-spec model will get flashier styling in line with local tastes – for one, expect to see a greater use of chrome than on the Kamiq pictured here.
On the inside, you’ll see the very latest of Skoda, with a large touchscreen infotainment screen being the centerpiece of the dashboard. The test model sports an 8.0-inch touchscreen unit. Skoda is understood to be going the distance with respect to features for the India-spec model, with elements like a panoramic sunroof being likely. The five-seat cabin will also boast some level of adjustability for the rear seats with reclinable back rests, again something to address the needs of chauffeur-driven Indian owners.  
While the exact powertrain details of the pictured model aren’t clear, the Kamiq for India will be offered with turbo-petrol engines, and there is the likelihood of factory-fit CNG options too. Skoda will not have a diesel for India, however.  
The Skoda SUV will be the first product to come from the Volkswagen Group’s India 2.0 programme, though Volkswagen will also have its own version of the midsize SUV. Relatively soon after, the MQB A0 IN platform will also spawn sedans for the two brands. The Skoda and VW SUVs will not have it easy in India, however – by the time they arrive, the midsize SUV segment that’s presently dominated by the Hyundai Creta and Kia Seltos will expand with the introduction of jointly-developed models from Toyota and Maruti Suzuki as well.
