
# A new job listing points to a Horizon Zero Dawn sequel in development

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:41:04+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/horizon-zero-dawn-2-possibly-confirmed-through-new-job-listing-guerrilla-games?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Sony Interactive Entertainment
      
While a handful of major PlayStation 4 exclusives are still on the way, such as The Last of Us Part II and Ghost of Tsushima, it looks like we might know about one of the next big PlayStation games to be announced. A job listing at Guerrilla Games, the developers of Horizon Zero Dawn, has been spotted, requesting technical artists to work on the environments of Horizon. Considering that Horizon Zero Dawn released years ago, this would appear to point towards a sequel.
Still, the idea that Horizon Zero Dawn is getting a sequel isn't surprising. Horizon Zero was well-received critically and has sold 10 million since its release in 2017. The PlayStation 5 is set to release in holiday 2020 and PlayStation will likely be talking about next-generation games from Sony Worldwide Studios as the PlayStation 5 gets closer. It'll be interesting to see if the sequel to Horizon Zero Dawn is a cross-generation game or fully exclusive to the new console.
Horizon Zero Dawn tells the story of humanity far into the future, in a world where advanced machines roam the Earth and people are divided into primitive tribes. A young woman named Aloy yearns to learn more about the world and her discovery sets off a journey that is both the key to understanding humanity's past and its possible future.

        PlayStation 5: Everything we know so far
      
Discover the truth
Horizon Zero Dawn: Complete Edition includes the base game, which takes players on an incredible journey with Aloy, as well as The Frozen Wilds expansion, where new dangers await.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Unlimited Means Limited AT&T will pay $60 million after hiding data throttling The FTC has settled its case with AT&T for $60 million. AT&T was accused of failing to inform customers of its data throttling practice while marketing plans as "unlimited."
      

        It's Back This new Android Auto app fixes a problem Google created for newer phones Android Auto for phone screens has finally been released for users who lost access to Android Auto after the Android 10 update.
      

        A decent mid-ranger The Nokia 6.2 arrives in the U.S. with Android One for $249 The Nokia 6.2 with triple rear cameras and stock Android is now available in the U.S. for $249.
      

        Best stuff in life is free Outlast 2 brings the scares in November's free PS Plus games If you have a PlayStation Plus membership, then you know about PlayStation's free games of the month. Here are the free games you can get this month with your membership.
      
