
# PM Imran gives roadmap to ministries, departments for next three months

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:20:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/517343-PM-Imran-gives-roadmap-to-ministries-departments-for-next-three-months)

ISAMABAD (Dunya News) – Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on Information and Broadcasting Dr Firdous Ashiq Awan on Tuesday said that Prime Minister Imran Khan has given a roadmap to ministries and departments of their targets for the next three months and he will himself review performance of every ministry.
Addressing a press conference in Islamabad after federal cabinet meeting, she said that the prime minister gave directions to all ministries to take maximum efforts to complete public sector development programs of their ministry in next three months.
She said that Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government has put the country’s economy on track, adding that the trade deficit decreased 50 percent.
The special assistant went on to say that the foreign investment rate has changed dramatically after three years due to the policies of PTI government and the local currency is recovering due to the government’s efforts.
Firdous said reform agenda of the incumbent government is being resisted by status quo people who do not want change in the system, adding that the prime minister reassured the cabinet that government will not back away from reforms agenda as it is agenda for the development and progress of Pakistan.
The government wants to transform challenges into opportunities.
PM Imran further directed to work on job creation and parallel empowerment strategies for youth of the country. He said he will himself monitor the progress so that decisions are made on time and red tapism is avoided. The prime minister will have a meeting with all federal secretaries after the cabinet meeting.
Imran Khan apprised the cabinet of political situation and said all indicators of the economy are on positive trajectory despite protests by the opposition parties.
Minister for Economic Affairs Hammad Azhar told the cabinet that economic indicators have witnessed improvements and economy is moving in right direction. Foreign investment has increased in the country and stock market is stabilizing. Ease of doing business ranking has also witnessed significant improvements.
The cabinet approved the waiver of passport and fee requirement for pilgrims of Kartarpur Corridor. She said the visa on arrival facility will be given to Sikh pilgrims, doing away the other requirements. Advisor to Prime Minister on Institutional Reforms Dr. Ishrat Hussain apprised the cabinet on new local government system.
The cabinet also accorded approval to appointment of DG Rangers Punjab.
