
# It started on the Late Late Show: Gaybo's most controversial moments

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:16:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Irishexaminer](https://www.irishexaminer.com/breakingnews/entertainment/it-started-on-the-late-late-show-gaybos-most-controversial-moments-961826.html)

The first broadcast of The Late Late Show was 11.20pm, July 6, 1962. Producer Tom McGrath intended it to be a light entertainment, informal programme to run as a 'filler' over the summer. It would be full of chat and easy banter, an Irish version of America's The Tonight Show.
Gay Byrne had other ideas. Brash, slick and far smarter than he pretended to be, he quickly turned the show into a mirror of a changing society. The show became a forum where controversial topics such as the influence of the Catholic Church, contraception, AIDS, homosexuality, abortion, and divorce could be openly discussed.
The first major controversy emerged in 1966 in what has become known as The Bishop and the Nightie affair. It involved a supposedly light-hearted quiz. A number of husbands and wives were asked the same questions separately about their partners, and there was a £5 prize for the couple that matched most answers.
Gay picked a married couple from the audience, Richard and Eileen Fox from Terenure in Dublin, and asked each of them a series of questions while the other was out of earshot. One of the questions related to the colour of Eileen’s nightie on honeymoon. Richard said it was transparent, while Eileen said she wasn’t wearing any.
The item drew condemnation from Thomas Ryan, Bishop of Clonfert in Galway, who sent a telegram: "Disgusted with disgraceful performance", and also denounced The Late Late Show from the pulpit, prompting an apology from RTÉ. Gay Byrne later issued a statement saying it had not been the show’s intention to embarrass viewers.
He pointed out that it was a late-night show designed for adult viewing. A decade later veteran feminist campaigner Hilary Boyle criticised the Irish government when she appeared on the Late Late, calling them "all so afraid of a belt of the crozier”. Shortly after the bishop and the nightie rumpus, there was a further incident when a debate was held on the Catholic Church.
Brian Trevaskis, a young student and President of The Phil Society of Trinity College Dublin, criticised Bishop Browne for spending so much on a cathedral instead of helping the poor. He also called him “a moron”. When he was invited back on the show the following week, the student apologised for using the word “moron”, but he went on to wonder whether the bishop knew “the meaning of the word Christianity”.

        Roll it there, Róisín: A look back at the life of Gay Byrne after his death at 85
      
In 1971 members of the Irish Women’s Liberation Movement travelled to Belfast by train to buy contraceptives in protest against the law prohibiting the importation and sale of contraceptives in the Republic. It was a landmark moment in the Irish women’s movement.
Several women, amongst them June Levine, Mary Kenny and Nell McCafferty, carried bags of condoms from Belfast. Mary Kenny appeared on the Late Late to discuss the protest, describing the Irish ban on contraceptives as "pretty damn weird".
In 1979 fellow broadcaster, Eamonn Andrews hi-jacked The Late Late Show, turning the tables on Gay Byrne. Marking 500 episodes, he interviewed Gay about the last 17 years of the show.
Gay was about to announce a guest called ‘Dana Andrews’, when Eamonn Andrews appeared on set to Gay’s surprise. The set-up was arranged by the Late Late Show crew, who asked Eamonn to come along to salute Gay and the show.
Also in 1979, Gay Byrne interviewed a lesbian. However, when a couple of former nuns who were lesbians were booked to appear in 1985, a High Court case ensued and calls came for The Late Late Show to be axed altogether as it would "greatly undermine Christian moral values" and "the respect of the general public for nuns" to feature the pair on live television. Protestors gathered to recite decades of the rosary, sing hymns as the show got underway.
