
# Paranoid Coatbridge prisoner slashed gangland hitman from neck to eye

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:21:25+00:00**

Author: **Airdrie and Coatbridge Advertiser, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/airdrie-and-coatbridge-advertiser/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/paranoid-coatbridge-prisoner-slashed-gangland-20810427)

A paranoid prisoner from Coatbridge who repeatedly slashed a notorious gangland hitman has been jailed for five years. 
Paul Shields, 33, sliced 57-year-old Raymond Anderson’s head and neck with a razor blade in a hall at HMP Shotts in August.
The High Court in Edinburgh heard that Shields attacked the gangland killer after hearing rumours from fellow inmates about how Anderson wanted to assault him. 
On Monday, judge Lord Kinclaven heard Shields had developed mental health problems in the weeks running up to the attack. 
Defence advocate Drew McKenzie said his condition made him determined to confront Anderson. 
However, Lord Kinclaven imposed an extended sentence on Shields. As well as serving a five year prison sentence, Shields will be supervised by the authorities for three years following his release from custody. 
Passing sentence, Lord Kinclaven said: “I have taken everything which has been said by Mr McKenzie into account. I have taken into account your mental health issues and I have taken into account that your have encountered problems throughout your life.
“I have also taken into account that you were fearful in the time leading up to the attack.
“However, you have pleaded guilty to a very serious offence. Rather than inform the prison authorities about your fears, you chose to procure a weapon and assault the complainer. 
“There is no alternative to the imposition of a custodial sentence. There is no other way of dealing with you.”
Prosecutors played CCTV footage of the attack during a previous court date.
The judge could see Shields, who was serving a four and a half year stretch for assault and robbery, sneaking up behind Anderson and lashing out at him.
Anderson could be seen then chasing after Shields with prison officers in hot pursuit. 
Shields was then caught while Anderson, of Glasgow, was rushed to hospital for emergency treatment. 
He pleaded guilty to a charge of assaulting Anderson to his severe injury and permanent disfigurement by repeatedly striking him on the head, body and neck with a razor. 
Prosecution lawyer Margaret Barron said: “As a result of the assault, the complainer sustained the following injuries; a 20 centimetre laceration from his right neck to the corner of his right eye. The wound was debrided and sutures inserted.

        Click here for more from Airdrie and Coatbridge
      
“He also sustained a nine centimetre laceration on the left scalp down to his forehead which was cleaned and did not require sutures. 
“He also sustained a five centimetre laceration behind his left ear. The wound was also debrided and sutures inserted. 
“He is permanently scarred as a result of sustaining these injuries."
Anderson was once handed the longest prison sentence in Scottish legal history. 
He and his co-accused James McDonald,44, were both jailed for a minimum of 35 years for murdering Michael Lyons, 21, at the Applerow Motors garage in Lambhill, Glasgow, on December 6 2006. 
The pair also shot their victim’s cousin Steven Lyons and notorious Paisley based gangster Robert Pickett during the attack. 
Passing sentence on that occasion, judge Lord Hardie described the attack as a “cold blooded, premeditated execution”.
