
# The Food Chain launched to take Stewartry's food industry to the next level

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:01:38+00:00**

Author: **Stuart Gillespie, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/stuart-gillespie/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/food-chain-launched-take-stewartrys-20810275)

A new project has been launched in a bid to take the Stewartry’s food industry to the next level.
The Food Chain would be based in Castle Douglas and aims to provide facilities and resources to help new and established producers gain the skills and expertise needed to expand their businesses.
The aim is to provide an economic and jobs boost in and around the region’s Food Town as well as helping the tourism and agricultural sectors.
Castle Douglas and Crocketford councillor David James came up with the idea, which has been given £20,000 from the South of Scotland Enterprise Partnership for a feasibility study into more detailed proposals.
Mr James said: “For me the biggest single improvement we can make for young people is to improve the economy so that there are opportunities and they do not need to move away.
“This proposal would see the town offering all the facilities that food producers need to scale up from the kitchen table to international markets. I was delighted when Castle Douglas Food Town Initiative got behind this idea and applied for feasibility funding.
 
“Bulk agricultural production does not have the profit margins it once had, nor does it offer many job opportunities. However, if we can create added value through quality, provenance, branding and innovation; we can grow our economy and provide better career prospects for young people who would like to stay in the area.
“The Food Chain will seek to offer support from field to fork, including a local brand and quality mark, professional kitchens, online retail, social media marketing, wholesale and distribution.
“Castle Douglas is historically, culturally and geographical ideally placed to be the centre of premium food and drink production – and as a happy coincidence, this industry ties in perfectly with our tourism.”
The project has been given the backing by food producers in Castle Douglas.
 
Castle Douglas Food Town Initiative chairman, Keith Irving, said: “Castle Douglas gained the food town designation in the early 2000s but we have not yet harnessed that potential. The demand for quality locally sourced produce is growing and we should seize the moment.”
Gillian Warden from In House Chocolates on King Street said: “The Food Chain would be an asset for the town of Castle Douglas, encouraging young people and start-up companies to stay in the region.
“A full range of facilities available locally would be beneficial to all producers whether start up or established. As a producer, these services would have been invaluable as a start-up business. As an established business I am always looking for new business avenues so support for expanding and building a brand for Dumfries and Galloway is definitely the way forward.”

        And Allen Henderson from Sulwath Brewery added: “I would welcome a project which would assist with distribution, provide recognised accreditation and ultimately build an area brand for the food and drink sector.”
      
