
# NHL roundup: Isles win ninth straight on Varlamov's shutout

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:50:38+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-icehockey-nhl-roundup-idUSKBN1XD05U)

Semyon Varlamov stopped all 27 shots he faced Saturday night, and Derick Brassard scored the game’s only goal early in the first period as the New York Islanders matched their longest winning streak in 30 years by beating the host Buffalo Sabres 1-0.
The Islanders have won nine straight for the first time since a nine-game run from Dec. 31, 1989, through Jan. 19, 1990. It is tied for the second-longest winning streak in franchise history behind a 15-game streak mounted from Jan. 21 through Feb. 20, 1982.
The 1-0 win was the first for the Islanders since they beat the New Jersey Devils on Feb. 19, 2016.
The Sabres have lost three in a row (0-2-1) since a 9-2-1 start. The 1-0 loss was the first for Buffalo since it fell to the Dallas Stars on Jan. 30. Sabers goalie Carter Hutton took the hard-luck loss after stopping 20 shots.
Maple Leafs 4, Flyers 3 (SO)
Mitch Marner scored the tying goal 5:03 into the third period, Frederik Andersen made 37 saves and Andreas Johnsson scored in the 11th round of a shootout to give visiting Toronto a win over Philadelphia.
Kasperi Kapanen and Jason Spezza each had a goal and an assist for Toronto, which snapped a three-game road slide thanks to Johnsson’s shootout score. The Maple Leafs are 3-2-2 in their last seven games.
Flyers defenseman Ivan Provorov and Claude Giroux each scored power-play goals and both recorded an assist as the Flyers lost for just the second time in six home games this season.
Oilers 2, Penguins 1 (OT)
Leon Draisaitl scored on a breakaway at 2:37 of overtime as Edmonton won its second game in a row, defeating host Pittsburgh.
Draisaitl cruised down the left side and remained a step ahead of Pittsburgh winger Alex Galchenyuk. Draisaitl drew a penalty against Galchenyuk, but it didn’t matter as the Oilers forward snapped the puck past Matt Murray to end the game.
Colby Cave also scored, and Mike Smith made 51 saves for Edmonton. Defenseman Brian Dumoulin scored the tying goal in the third period, and Murray turned aside 26 shots for Pittsburgh, which saw its two-game winning streak come to a halt.
Rangers 2, Predators 1
Alexandar Georgiev made 32 saves, and visiting New York held on to beat Nashville.
Filip Chytil and Ryan Strome scored for the Rangers, who won for the first time this season when scoring less than four goals and played their second straight game without Mika Zibanejad. Zibanejad sat out with an upper-body injury he sustained on a hit by Boston’s Patrice Bergeron.
Viktor Arvidsson scored a power-play goal for Nashville, which entered leading the Western Conference with 53 goals. The Predators lost their second straight and were held to one goal for the first time this season.
Jets 4, Golden Knights 3 (OT)
Kyle Connor scored with 1:38 remaining in overtime as Winnipeg rallied from a two-goal deficit to win in Las Vegas.
Connor, who also had two assists, picked up a drop pass from Patrik Laine above the left circle, went in and fired a wrist shot through the pads of Malcolm Subban for the game-winner.
Mathieu Perreault had two goals, and Mark Scheifele also scored for Winnipeg, which was playing the final game of a three-game western road trip. Laurent Brossoit finished with 23 saves.
Blues 4, Wild 3 (OT)
Ryan O’Reilly scored the overtime game-winner as St. Louis edged Minnesota in St. Paul, Minn.
O’Reilly deked past Zach Parise in the high slot before snapping a wrister in the top left corner. The Blues erased a 3-2 deficit to earn their seventh comeback victory of the season. Overall, they have won four consecutive games and six of their last seven following a four-game skid.
Mackenzie MacEachern, Sammy Blais and Carl Gunnarsson also scored for the Blues, and Jake Allen made 20 saves. Marcus Foligno, Kevin Fiala and Mats Zuccarello scored for the Wild, and Devan Dubnyk stopped 25 of 29 shots.
Stars 4, Canadiens 1
Denis Gurianov scored two goals, and Ben Bishop made 35 saves as Dallas beat visiting Montreal.
Gurianov collected his third and fourth goals of the season, including his first career score on a penalty shot. After being slashed by Nick Suzuki on a breakaway attempt 18:49 into the second period, Gurianov made no mistake in firing the penalty shot past Carey Price.
Dallas has won three games in a row, including wins on consecutive nights after Friday’s 2-1 road victory over the Colorado Avalanche. The Stars are 6-1-0 in their last seven games.
Coyotes 3, Avalanche 0
Darcy Kuemper stopped all 33 shots he faced to record his first shutout of the season for host Arizona, who cruised over reeling Colorado.
Christian Dvorak and Phil Kessel scored in the first period, and Conor Garland added a goal in the second for the Coyotes, who have won three of four and seven of nine. The shutout was the 17th of Kuemper’s career.
Pavel Francouz made 25 saves for the Avalanche, who have lost four in a row (0-3-1) since an 8-1-1 start. Forward Nathan MacKinnon’s 15-game point streak to open the season — the longest in the NHL — was snapped. He had four shots.
Bruins 5, Senators 2
David Pastrnak collected a goal and two assists as host Boston skated to its fifth consecutive victory at the expense of Ottawa.
Patrice Bergeron, Brad Marchand and Danton Heinen each scored and set up a goal, and Jake DeBrusk also tallied for the Bruins, who are 7-0-2 in their last nine games overall. Tuukka Rask made 30 saves to improve to 7-0-1 on the season.
Anthony Duclair scored his fourth goal in as many contests and Connor Brown also tallied for the Senators, who have lost their last nine meetings against Boston.
Flames 3, Blue Jackets 0
David Rittich stopped 43 shots for his second shutout of the season to lead visiting Calgary to a victory over Columbus.
Sean Monahan, Sam Bennett and Matthew Tkachuk scored goals for the Flames, who improved to 3-1-1 over their last five games. Elias Lindholm added two assists. It was the third career shutout for Rittich, who also blanked Vancouver 3-0 on Oct. 5.
Joonas Korpisalo had 26 saves for the Blue Jackets, who saw their winless streak extended to four games (0-3-1) while getting shut out for the first time this season.
Panthers 4, Red Wings 0
Jonathan Huberdeau scored two goals and added one assist, and Sergei Bobrovsky made 22 saves as Florida defeated struggling Detroit in Sunrise, Fla.
Huberdeau — the longest-tenured Panthers player in his eighth season — has six goals in his past six games and nine on the campaign for the best 14-game start of his career. It was his 18th career two-goal game, although he has yet to produce a hat trick.
Bobrovsky, who left the Columbus Blue Jackets as a free agent and signed a seven-year, $70 million contract with the Panthers in July, turned in his first shutout of the season.
Devils 5, Hurricanes 3
P.K. Subban scored four minutes into the third period on a redirection to break a tie, and New Jersey held on to defeat host Carolina for only its third victory in 12 games this season.
Miles Wood, Jack Hughes, Nico Hischier and Damon Severson also had goals for the Devils. New Jersey goalie Mackenzie Blackwood made 24 saves, though he faced only four shots in the third period. With a 3-2-3 record, he has all of the team’s goalie victories this season.
Warren Foegele, Teuvo Teravainen and Erik Haula scored for the Hurricanes, who were unable to pull even with an extra skater before the deficit grew to two goals.
Kings 4, Blackhawks 3 (OT)
Drew Doughty scored with 17 seconds left in overtime, and Los Angeles ended a four-game losing streak with a win against visiting Chicago.
Kyle Clifford, Matt Roy and Michael Amadio also scored, Dustin Brown and Tyler Toffoli had two assists each and Jack Campbell made 24 saves for the Kings, who owned a 49-27 shot advantage.
Dominik Kubalik, David Kampf and Jonathan Toews scored, and Corey Crawford made 40 saves for Chicago, which has lost six of seven.
Canucks 5, Sharks 2
Elias Pettersson scored twice, and Jake Virtanen had a goal and an assist as Vancouver finally solved backup goaltender Aaron Dell, defeating host San Jose.
Brandon Sutter and Adam Gaudette also scored for the Canucks, who extended their points streak to seven games (5-0-2) and have won nine of 12. Brock Boeser and Bo Horvat had two assists apiece.
Vancouver goalie Thatcher Demko lost his bid for his first NHL shutout when San Jose’s Marc Edouard-Vlasic scored on a short-handed goal off a two-on-one with Barclay Goodrow at 10:51 of the third period to make it 4-1. Evander Kane scored with 22 seconds left to cap the scoring. Demko made 24 saves.
—Field Level Media
