
# Woman, 26, dies after town centre altercation as man arrested on suspicion of murder

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:50:01+00:00**

Author: **Mark Branagan**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/woman-26-dies-after-town-20802840)

A man has been arrested on suspicion of murder after a young woman was found dead in a town centre.
Detectives say the 26-year-old victim lost consciousness following an altercation in Halifax, West Yorkshire, during the early hours of this morning.
The street where the incident took place was cordoned off for a painstaking forensic examination.
Bystanders sobbed in the street as 999 workers tried to revive the girl with heart massage and the kiss of life.
She was rushed to hospital intensive care but pronounced dead despite medic's desperate attempts to save her life.
One bystander had attempted to perform CPR on the critically-injured woman but was unable to save her her life, it later emerged.
A local shopkeeper said: “I just saw a lot of people there and somebody was trying to press on the chest of a girl because she couldn’t breathe.
“There more than 20, 25 people. I saw one girl crying. Maybe she was with her.”
West Yorkshire Police said: “Detectives have launched a murder investigation following the death of a woman in Halifax.
“At 2.16am today police were called to an incident where a woman had been left unconscious following an altercation in Silver Street, Halifax.
“The 26-year-old woman was taken to hospital by ambulance for emergency treatment but was pronounced dead a short time later.
“A 26-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of murder and remains in custody.
“A scene has been put in place to undergo forensic examination and enquiries are ongoing to establish the circumstances surrounding her death.
A post mortem examination is due to be conducted later today.
“Anyone who witnessed the incident or who has any information that could assist the investigation is asked to contact West Yorkshire Police
Homicide and Major Enquiry Team via 101 quoting Operation Patondeat or call the independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111."
