
# Atalanta 1-1 Manchester City: Defender Kyle Walker goes in goal in bizarre game in Milan

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:26:35+00:00**

Author: **Emma Sanders**

Original: [BBC Sport](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/50296556)


        Defender Kyle Walker had to play in goal for the closing stages as Manchester City held on to draw with Atalanta in the Champions League.
      
Walker replaced substitute goalkeeper Claudio Bravo, who was sent off for a sliding tackle on Josip Ilicic outside the box, having replaced first-choice keeper Ederson at half-time.
Raheem Sterling had given the visitors a 1-0 lead in the first half of their group-stage game before Chelsea loannee Mario Pasalic equalised four minutes after the restart.
City striker Gabriel Jesus also missed a first-half penalty in a bizarre game at the San Siro.
A victory would have sent City through to the last 16 but they remain five points clear at the top of Group C despite failing to win for the first time in the group stages this season.
Things went to plan after seven minutes when Sterling coolly slotted into the bottom corner following a brilliant backheel flick from Jesus.
But the Brazilian forward's penalty miss and Pasalic's thumping header early in the second half rocked the boat - City were no longer in control and Atalanta were posing a threat.
With Ederson substituted at half-time for a suspected injury, there was nervousness at the back and Bravo's rash tackle meant an outfield player was forced to go in goal.
Up stepped Walker, after a six-minute delay while Bravo's red card was checked by the video assistant referee, and his first action was to make a smart save from Ruslan Malinovskyi's free-kick.
Walker, only the third outfield player to go in goal during a Champions League match, actually made more saves than both of Manchester City's recognised keepers during the game.
The moment Bravo came on, City looked nervous at the back.
The Chile international played with fire on several occasions, coming out of his box to make a diving header and taking his time with clearances while being pressed by Atalanta's forwards.
He conceded within four minutes of coming on - though he could do nothing about Pasalic's terrific header, which came at him with pace from an unmarked position in the box.
And when Bravo came charging out of his area sliding, bringing down Ilicic and consequently being shown a red card, it caused chaos for City, who had no other keepers on the bench to turn to.
Walker was given instructions on the sidelines while the big screen in the stadium showed 'VAR check' but it took six minutes for his substitution to be made.
He high-fived Riyad Mahrez, who was sacrificed on his behalf, before running straight over to the goalposts and organising the defence into a wall to prepare for the free-kick.
Malinovskyi, who had come on for Atalanta during the six-minute wait, hit it low and straight down the middle but Walker got his body behind it and gobbled up the rebound, to great cheers from the travelling City fans.
Manchester City should have had the game wrapped up in the first half but instead, spent the final seven minutes of stoppage time keeping the ball in the corner to prevent Atalanta from having a shot at Walker.
In the first half, City had eight shots, including six inside the box and had Jesus scored his spot kick, they would have been 2-0 up after 43 minutes.
Jesus, who has missed three of his seven penalties in all competitions for City, had a chance early on too when he was played in by Kevin de Bruyne, but his first touch let him down.
And when asked whether Jesus' penalty miss affected the game, Guardiola told BT Sport: "Definitely. Football is emotion."
Sterling also came close - missing Mahrez's cross by inches at the back post before the ball was taken away from him as he was about to shoot from a few yards out.
They were ultimately punished for their lack of ruthlessness and sloppiness at the back - something Liverpool will hope to take advantage of when the two Premier League rivals go head-to-head in Sunday's game at Anfield.
Atalanta had lost their previous three group games and this was their first point in the Champions League this season.
Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola on BT Sport: "In this competition you know you have your chances and moments and you have to take it. But with the problems we have, we made a good first half. First half, we were outstanding and second, we suffered. In the last 15 minutes we had the issue with the new keeper.
"The second half we didn't do exactly what we should do. It was few chances conceded against one of the teams who create more. It was a perfect result away and we need one more point to go though.
"When we land in Manchester we will think about the next game in the Premier League."

        View more on twitter
      
Manchester City travel to Anfield for a crucial Premier League fixture against leaders Liverpool on Sunday (16:30 GMT), hoping to close their six-point gap at the top. City are back in European action on Tuesday, 26 November when they host Shakhtar Donetsk at Etihad Stadium.
Referee:Aleksey KulbakovAttendance:34,326
Home TeamAtalantaAway TeamMan CityPossessionHome42%Away58%ShotsHome8Away10Shots on TargetHome2Away4CornersHome2Away9FoulsHome12Away11
Posted at
Match ends, Atalanta 1, Manchester City 1.
Posted at 90'+8'
Second Half ends, Atalanta 1, Manchester City 1.
Posted at 90'+7'
Corner, Manchester City. Conceded by Ruslan Malinovskiy.
Posted at 90'+6'
Bernardo Silva (Manchester City) is shown the yellow card.
Posted at 90'+5'
Corner, Manchester City. Conceded by Alejandro Gómez.
Posted at 90'+5'
Corner, Manchester City. Conceded by Berat Djimsiti.
Posted at 90'+2'
Substitution, Atalanta. Luis Muriel replaces Timothy Castagne.
Posted at 90'+2'
Benjamin Mendy (Manchester City) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Posted at 90'+1'
Foul by Benjamin Mendy (Manchester City).
Posted at 90'+1'
Rafael Tolói (Atalanta) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 89'
Sergio Agüero (Manchester City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 89'
Foul by José Luis Palomino (Atalanta).
Posted at 88'
Attempt saved. Ruslan Malinovskiy (Atalanta) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Posted at 88'
Substitution, Manchester City. Kyle Walker replaces Riyad Mahrez.
Posted at 84'
Substitution, Atalanta. Ruslan Malinovskiy replaces Remo Freuler.
Posted at 81'
Claudio Bravo (Manchester City) is shown the red card.
Posted at 81'
Foul by Claudio Bravo (Manchester City).
Posted at 81'
Josip Ilicic (Atalanta) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 79'
Timothy Castagne (Atalanta) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Posted at 79'
João Cancelo (Manchester City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 79'
Foul by Timothy Castagne (Atalanta).
Posted at 77'
Offside, Manchester City. Riyad Mahrez tries a through ball, but Kevin De Bruyne is caught offside.
Posted at 75'
Corner, Manchester City. Conceded by Hans Hateboer.
Posted at 73'
Substitution, Manchester City. Sergio Agüero replaces Gabriel Jesus.
Posted at 73'
Attempt missed. Berat Djimsiti (Atalanta) header from the centre of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Josip Ilicic with a cross following a set piece situation.
Posted at 72'
Hand ball by João Cancelo (Manchester City).
Posted at 70'
Fernandinho (Manchester City) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Posted at 70'
Foul by Fernandinho (Manchester City).
Posted at 70'
Hans Hateboer (Atalanta) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Posted at 66'
Attempt blocked. Hans Hateboer (Atalanta) left footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Mario Pasalic.
Posted at 66'
Attempt saved. Raheem Sterling (Manchester City) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Fernandinho with a through ball.
Posted at 62'
Attempt missed. Berat Djimsiti (Atalanta) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Alejandro Gómez with a cross following a corner.
Posted at 62'
Corner, Atalanta. Conceded by Benjamin Mendy.
Posted at 61'
Attempt blocked. Alejandro Gómez (Atalanta) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Remo Freuler.
Posted at 60'
Foul by Ilkay Gündogan (Manchester City).
Posted at 60'
Mario Pasalic (Atalanta) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 58'
Gabriel Jesus (Manchester City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 58'
Foul by José Luis Palomino (Atalanta).
Posted at 54'
Corner, Manchester City. Conceded by Berat Djimsiti.
Posted at 54'
Attempt blocked. Riyad Mahrez (Manchester City) left footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Benjamin Mendy with a cross.
Show more updatesgoal
