
# Billy Joe Burns hails Crusaders' progress as they host Institute

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Carl Toner**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/footballsoccer/2019/11/02/news/billy-joe-burns-hails-crusaders-progress-as-they-host-institute-1753643/)


        Crusaders v Institute:
      

        Saturday 2nd November, 3pm, Seaview.
      
Crusaders host Institute at Seaview (today) at 3pm, as the Shore Road side hope to remain in contention at the top of the table.
The last time the two sides met, Crusaders delivered a 6-0 hammering to Institute at The Brandywell Stadium, with Paul Heatley grabbing a brace and Paul McElroy scoring on his debut.
Institute have not won against Crusaders in almost ten years, with their last win coming in late November 2009.
Both sides booked their place in the Bet McLean League Cup semi-final this week, as Joe McCready’s goal for Institute was enough for a 1-0 win over Newry City.
Meanwhile, it took 119 minutes for Stephen Baxter’s Crusaders to find the winner against Ballymena on Tuesday night, when Jarlath O’Rourke squeezed the ball home for Crusaders’ winning goal.
One of the Irish League’s most decorated footballers, Billy Joe Burns believes that it is Crusaders’ mentality and fitness that drives them on.
“Over the years it’s something we’ve done; we dig deep to get results.
“Especially against Glenavon, we rescued a point, although we didn’t play well, we took something from that game when we mightn’t have deserved to."
