
# The Android Central forums are now ad-free

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:46:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/android-central-forums-are-now-ad-free?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
To welcome Android Central to the Future family of sites, your Community Team would like to proudly announce that forums here at Android Central are now completely free of advertisements to all registered, logged-in members. We want to make your experience in our communities the absolute best that we can, and one way to do that is to make it much easier and more convenient for you to navigate the boards and engage in discussions. To achieve that goal, we've turned off all ads for all logged-in, registered users of the forums.
If you've not yet registered, now is the perfect time to do so to take advantage of the new ad-free forum browsing. Be sure to sign up here and swing by our Introductions Thread to say hi!
Registration and participation in our forums are, as always, free - and now so much more convenient. We are incredibly delighted to make this change for our fantastic community and can't wait for you to dive into the new forum experience.
See you in the forums!

        Double the fun For developers, Surface Neo and Duo represent a unique opportunity Surface Duo and Surface Neo are some of the most enticing devices Microsoft has ever announced. But how will developers take advantage of these new foldables?
      

        Binge time Hulu's offline downloads finally rolling out for Android users After adding offline downloads earlier this month for iOS devices, Hulu has now added the feature to the Android app.
      

        Done deal Google has officially purchased Fitbit for $2.1 billion Following a report from earlier this week, it's now been confirmed that Google has acquired Fitbit for a total of $2.1 billion.
      

        Super Mario who? These are the best platformers you can play on PS4 Nintendo isn't the only console that has stellar platforming games. They may not be as iconic as Super Mario, but that doesn't make these platformers on PS4 any less fun.
      
