
# Hugo Lloris: Tottenham reverse decision as goalkeeper undergoes elbow surgery

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:44:57+00:00**

Author: **Karl Matchett**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/premier-league/tottenham-news-hugo-lloris-injury-latest-surgery-a9189376.html)

Tottenham have released a statement confirming that goalkeeper Hugo Lloris has undergone surgery on his elbow.
The World Cup-winning captain suffered a dislocated elbow in a Premier League game against Brighton in early October, landing awkwardly after dropping a cross just a few minutes into the match.
Brighton scored from that mistake and went on to win 3-0, but the longer-term impact of the moment was that Lloris faced an extended period on the sidelines.
Spurs initially released a statement saying that there was ligament damage as well as the dislocation, but that no surgery would be required – but on Thursday a second message confirmed that he had indeed necessitated an operation on the injury.
The change comes after Lloris’ “elbow remained unstable,” according to the clinical tests, but appears not to have impacted on his expected recovery timeframe.
Spurs’ statement in full read: “Following further clinical testing and examination, Hugo Lloris has now undergone surgery on his left elbow.
“The France goalkeeper dislocated his elbow and sustained ligament damage during our Premier League match against Brighton & Hove Albion last month.
“Surgery was advised after further reviews by specialists found the elbow remained unstable.
“Our Club captain remains on course to return to training in the early part of next year.”
In his absence, Paulo Gazzaniga has started five games in succession, conceding four goals in that time but keeping clean sheets in back-to-back Champions League encounters against Red Star Belgrade, with a 4-0 win in Serbia coming on Wednesday night.
Lloris, 32, has been at Tottenham since 2012 and has played over 300 games for the club.
