
# The 2019 BusinessMirror Golf Tournament: The ‘BusinessMirror’ celebrates its 14th year

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:06:07+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/02/the-2019-businessmirror-golf-tournament-the-businessmirror-celebrates-its-14th-year/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
The BusinessMirror celebrated its 14th year of operations with a fabulous golf tournament at the beautiful Mount Malarayat Golf and Country Club last week. There was apprehension on whether golfers would come out in support of the tournament as in years past because of the congestion on the Southern Luzon Expressway as the construction of the Skyway to Susana Heights continues.
But golfers’ passion for the game and the stunning setting for the tournament carried the day. 126-golfers made the trek to Lipa City in support of the 2019 BusinessMirror Golf Tournament presented by the San Miguel Corp. This edition was tweaked slightly at the behest of BusinessMirror Publisher T. Anthony Cabangon. Most fun tournaments don’t require handicaps for play, but with the slogan Play it Right as the paper’s advocacy for golf, Mr. Cabangon insisted on a more serious format.
The Molave scoring system requires a handicap and awards 54 points for a round of even par. It was the tournament system the committee settled on after due deliberation and proved to be a fun format for the tournament.
Also, in our quest to make the BusinessMirror Golf Tournament stand out in the busy tournament scene, Mr. Cabangon insisted that the winners of each category bring home more than a trophy. In other tournaments the significance of winning seems to have been diminished when others, with their mere presence, are gifted with high-value raffle prizes. At the 2019 BusinessMirror Golf Tournament all the winners were presented with appliances worth over P8,000 together with their trophies.
In the end Ray Sangil took the lowest gross plum with a score of 2-over 74 which translated into 50 gross Molave points on the tough greens of the Mount Malarayat Golf and Country Club. Leo Gerardo Salud took the low net prize with a total score of 63 Molave points.
The tournament would not have been possible without the considerable support lent by its sponsors, especially to our presenter, the San Miguel Corp., our host, the Mount Malarayat Golf and Country Club, major sponsors and all the other sponsors and individuals that contributed to the success of the 2019 BusinessMirror Golf Tournament.
The BusinessMirror is most grateful and has bigger and better plans for next year’s tournament. You definitely want to be a part of that. See you then!
