
# Stima’s Babu wins coach of the month gong

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:48:58+00:00**

Author: **Timothy Olobulu**

Original: [Capital Sports](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/sports/2019/11/01/stimas-babu-wins-coach-of-the-month-gong/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 1 – Western Stima tactician has beaten Bandari’s Bernard Mwalala and Tusker’s Robert Matano to clinch the season opening Sports Journalists Association of Kenya (SJAK)/Fidelity insurance coach of the month award for August/September.
      
Babu led Stima to pick eight points off a possible 12 from four matches and he notches his second coach of the month award having picked the same silverware during his stint as Sony Sugar head coach
“I am elated with the recognition from SJAK and their partner Fidelity Insurance.T he award is a motivation to me as I seek to finish the season unbeaten. I am hopeful that we can finish within the top eight in the first leg even though we are not title favorite. I have the required depth to navigate through the season,” he said after receiving his award in Kisumu on Friday.
“The boys have been working hard in the past seven rounds and we are looking to carry the fighting spirit for our next match against Bandari,” Babu further stated.
In a poll conducted by the SJAK football commission, Babu narrowly floored the trio of Mwalala, Matano and AFC Leopards’ Andre Cassa Mbungo who all tied on seven points.
Stima started off the campaign with back to back draws, picking a point in a 2-2 draw away to Kariobangi Sharks in Machakos before squaring it barren against Wazito in Kisumu.
They however responded to the two points with a 1-0 victory over Posta Rangers away in Machakos and a 2-1 victory over local rivals and league newcomers Kisumu All Stars.
(Visited 20 times, 1 visits today)
