
# Xiaomi Mi Note 10, Mi Note 10 Pro and Redmi Note 8T arrive in Europe

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:02:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/xiaomi-mi-note-10-mi-note-10-pro-redmi-note-8t-arrive-europe/)

Xiaomi announced a new camera-centric lineup of smartphones earlier this year in China. As part of the lineup, the company first released the Xiaomi Mi CC9 and the Mi CC9e. Even though the Mi CC series was restricted to China, the phones were rebranded and released in international markets. The Mi CC9 was released in Europe under the Mi 9 Lite moniker, while the Mi CC9e made its way to Europe and India as the Mi A3. Adding on to the lineup, Xiaomi recently released the Mi CC9 Pro and Mi CC9 Pro Premium Edition in China. Now, these devices are headed to Europe as the Mi Note 10 and Mi Note 10 Pro, along with the budget-friendly Redmi Note 8T.
The all-new Xiaomi Mi Note 10 and Mi Note 10 Pro feature a penta-camera setup on the back, with the primary camera making use of the 108MP Samsung ISOCELL Bright HMX sensor. The main advantage of this new sensor is that it’s physically quite large, 1/1.33″ to be exact, which will allow the camera to capture more light in dimly lit conditions. The sensor makes use of pixel binning by default and combines four pixels into one to output a 27MP shot. However, you do get the option to capture full-resolution 108MP shots. The main difference between the Mi note 10 and the Mi Note 10 Pro is that the non-pro variant makes use of a 7 piece (7P) lens setup, while the Pro variant uses an 8P lens setup.
Along with the 108MP primary sensor, the Mi Note 10 duo features a 5MP telephoto camera which boasts of 5x optical zoom along with OIS. The camera is also capable of 10x hybrid zoom and 50x digital zoom, which will allow you to capture subjects that are quite far away. These two cameras are accompanied by a 20MP wide-angle camera, a 12 MP camera for portrait shots, and a dedicated macro camera. The Mi Note 10 will also support video capture in 4K resolution at 30fps on the ultra-wide lens and 960fps slow-mo using the macro lens. The penta-camera array is complemented by a quad-LED flash. Up on the front, the devices feature a 32MP selfie shooter within the waterdrop notch.
 
The Mi Note 10 duo features a 6.43-inch OLED panel that’s curved on the edges, however, it’s quite subtle when compared to the waterfall display on the Huawei Mate 30 Pro. The devices pack  Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 730g chipset, along with up to 8GB of RAM and 256GB of internal storage. It’s worth noting that the Mi Note 10 Pro will only be available in the 8GB/256GB configuration.
Powering the devices is a 5,260mAh battery that includes fast-charging support up to 30W. While that’s quite impressive in itself, Xiaomi claims that its fast charging technology works better than 40W fast charging as it doesn’t slow down the charging speed at higher percentages. With the 30W charging brick, you’ll be able to charge the device up to 58 percent in just half an hour, while a full charge to 100 percent takes 65 minutes. The phones also retain other essential features like NFC, IR Blaster, and a 3.5mm headphone jack. The Mi Note 10 will be available in three color options — Aurora Green, Glacier White, and Midnight Black.
As expected, the Mi Note 10 will be slightly more expensive in Europe. The Mi Note 10 has been priced at €549 (~$608) for the 6GB/128GB variant, while the Mi Note 10 Pro has been priced at €649 (~$719) for the 8GB/256GB variant. As far as the availability is concerned, the Mi Note 10 series will be up for pre-order in Germany starting November 11th. It will go on sale in Italy and Spain starting November 15th, while the French will have to wait until November 18th to purchase the device. The devices will also make their way to the UK, Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg, however, Xiaomi hasn’t announced the exact release date for these regions.

        
          Xiaomi Mi Note 10 XDA Forums
        
      
 
The Redmi Note 8T making its way to Europe is a slightly upgraded version of the Redmi Note 8 that was launched in India earlier this year. While pretty much all the specifications remain the same, the Redmi Note 8T also includes NFC support, which was missing in the Redmi Note 8. The budget-friendly device is powered by Qualcomm’s mid-range Snapdragon 665 chip, along with 4GB of RAM and 64GB of internal storage. The device features a 6.3-inch FHD+ display with a waterdrop notch and 90% screen-to-body ratio.
The Redmi Note 8 is no slouch in the camera department either, featuring a quad-camera setup on the back. The camera array includes a 48MP Samsung ISOCELL primary sensor with an f/1.8 aperture, an 8MP wide-angle lens, a 2MP macro camera, and a 2MP sensor for depth perception. Up on the front, the device packs in a 13MP selfie shooter housed within the notch. The device is backed by an impressive 4,000mAh battery with support for 18W fast-charging via USB Type-C.
The Redmi Note 8T has been priced at €199 (~$220) for the 4GB/64GB variant and will be available for purchase in Spain and Italy starting November 8th. The device will make its way to France starting November 13th and while Xiaomi has announced that it will be released in the UK, Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg, the company hasn’t revealed the exact date for the release.
