
# Premier League team news: How Liverpool, Man Utd, Arsenal, Chelsea, Spurs and City will line up this weekend

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:52:54+00:00**

Author: **Harry Latham-Coyle**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/premier-league/premier-league-team-news-lineups-liverpool-man-utd-arsenal-chelsea-tottenham-city-epl-a9180946.html)

After midweek Carabao Cup excursions, the Premier League‘s big six return to league action with a host of intriguing games.
Liverpool and Arsenal played out a pulsating tie that was decided by penalties on Wednesday, and the pair are back in action against Aston Villa and Wolves respectively. 
Chelsea will look to bounce back from cup defeat by solidifying their place in the top four with a win against Watford on Saturday evening, while Manchester United travel to Bournemouth in the early kick-off. Manchester City face Southampton for the second time in a week.
Tottenham Hotspur were the only big six side who enjoyed a midweek rest and will seek a much-needed win against fellow stragglers Everton on Sunday afternoon.
Here’s how we think the Premier League’s big six might line up this weekend:

        Manchester United (vs Bournemouth)
      
 
Manchester United are concerned about the fitness of Harry Maguire, Victor Lindelof and Marcus Rashford after the trio picked up midweek knocks.
While Marcos Rojo may be forced to deputise for Lindelof, such is the importance of Maguire and Rashford to Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side that they may be forced to play through the injuries against Bournemouth,
Solskjaer remains without Paul Pogba, Axel Tuanzebe, Luke Shaw, Eric Bailly and Nemanja Matic among others.

        Liverpool (vs Aston Villa)
      
Liverpool are likely to return to a first-choice lineup after resting the majority of their first-team squad in midweek.
Joel Matip’s knee injury remains bothersome which may see Dejan Lovren continue in defence.
The midfield composition is oft-discussed, but the starting trio were impressive against Tottenham last weekend and should continue.

        Arsenal (vs Wolves)
      
Granit Xhaka has been left out of the Arsenal squad for the game against Wolves after his outburst against Crystal Palace.
Lucas Torreira will likely come in at the base of the midfield three, but otherwise it is likely to be a similar Arsenal team to the once that was held at home last weekend.
Hector Bellerin is pushing for a start at right-back after completing 90 minutes in midweek, but Callum Chambers has done a solid job in recent weeks and may retain his place.

        Manchester City (vs Southampton)
      
Pep Guardiola has Fernandinho available for this game after the Brazilian served his one-match suspension in midweek.
Kyle Walker could return at right-back and Nicolas Otamendi in central defence.
Sergio Aguero should get the nod up front ahead of Gabriel Jesus, who started out wide in midweek.

        Chelsea (vs Watford)
      
Christian Pulisic’s hat-trick at Burnley seems to have secured his place in the front three for the foreseeable future at Chelsea.
Frank Lampard remains unable to call upon Antonio Rudiger and Andreas Christensen at the back, while N’Golo Kante is a key absentee in midfield.
Yet Lampard has largely settled on a consistent starting lineup, with Emerson’s injury set back meaning there is no real dilemma at left-back where Marcos Alonso is expected to continue.

        Tottenham (vs Everton)
      
After the disappointing defeat to Liverpool, it seems likely that Mauricio Pochettino rings the changes for Tottenham’s trip to Everton.
Danny Rose, who is suspended, and Serge Aurier both struggled last weekend, which may mean Juan Foyth and Ben Davies take the full-back berths. Christian Eriksen and Dele Alli may drop out, too.
Jan Vertonghen and Davinson Sanchez showed promise as a partnership against Red Star Belgrade in the Champions League, and could start together at Goodison Park.
