
# Afghanistan teenager Qais Ahmad signed by Gloucestershire

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:06:41+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/afghanistan-teenager-qais-ahmad-signed-by-gloucestershire?utm_medium=rss)


        Afghanistan's 19-year-old leg-spinner Qais Ahmad has been signed by county side Gloucestershire for the 2020 season and will be available for selection in the T20 Blast matches and final few games of the County Championship. Ahmad has been impressive in his stints in leagues like CPL, BBL and BPL.
      
Qais Ahmad has been bagged by Gloucestershire for their 2020 campaign around the same time when he was also bagged by The Hundred franchise Welsh Fire from the draft. The youngster is extremely excited about the chance of playing in England and has a very bright future ahead of him if he keeps on continuing to impress everyone with his performances.
"I am extremely happy to have signed for Gloucestershire for the T20 Blast and then the County Championship," Ahmad told CricBuzz.
Ahmad has represented Afghanistan in a single Test and is looking forward to developing himself further in the red-ball format with the help of his stint with Gloucestershire. He is also excited about working with coach Richard Dawson and Dawson has identified Ahmad as one of the most exciting young spinners in the world.
 "It is a great honour for me to join Gloucestershire after they had such a successful 2019. Having played T20 cricket around the world I have always wanted to play first-class cricket in England to develop my red-ball skills. I am looking forward to working with Richard Dawson," Ahmad concluded.
Ahmad has had stints in the CPL, BBL, and BPL but is still a relatively unknown commodity and thus he will be of great use to Gloucestershire especially in the T20 Blast and this experience will help the leggie to grow as a player and will help him leaps and bounds to perform well for his national team.
