
# 'Better than Messi' - West Brom fans calling for same thing from Slaven Bilic after Stoke City win

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:36:37+00:00**

Author: **Josh Murray**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/better-messi-west-brom-fans-17201387)

West Bromwich Albion fans have been celebrating their side's return to the top of the Championship table in comfortable fashion.
The Baggies triumphed 2-0 at bottom-of-the-table Stoke City on Monday night, Matt Phillips setting them on the way to victory with an eighth-minute opener.
Hal Robson-Kanu then wrapped up the points from the penalty spot after replacing Charlie Austin.
Robson-Kanu's display from the bench was one of several factors that earned praise from Albion supporters at the bet365 Stadium and on social media, as well as the quality Slaven Bilic's side showed on the ball.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 

        Here's just some of the reactions from Baggies supporters after an eighth win of the League campaign.
      
@Johnwba01: ROBSON KANUUUUU WHAT A PLAYER
@ALBIONFANTV: Just announce promotion!
Andy Caulton: Death by passing... Sweet to have this as our mantra again
Andy Leeman: Perfect away performance. Easy 3 points. Robson Kanu deserves to start now. Might not be the best technically but gives us everything. Far better movement and hold up play than Austin. That's all we need with the 3 behind him. #wba
 
@jjcole180: HRK: - scored the best penalty anyone has ever seen - did a stepover while falling down - is better than messi
Dan Sirrell: The away fans were unbelievable tonight
Mr Christopher Ellis: Why does winning feel normal
@mistydusty: This might be the first time in my life I’m confident about the Albion. They put everything in whilst maintaining a certain composure. Soooooooo cool. I just love it. I just love this team
Arthur Godfrey: Ajayi is an absolute gem, gets better and better
@KeithSu51736990: the thing i enjoy most is we didn't really click going forward last night... and still won comfortably!
