
# Two students from Northern Ireland injured after bus overturns in France

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:31:00+00:00**

Author: **SUZANNE MCGONAGLE**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/05/news/two-students-from-northern-ireland-injured-after-bus-overturns-in-france-1756369/)

TWO students from Northern Ireland are expected to arrive home tonight after being injured in a bus crash in northern France.
Jamie Kerr and Gemma Given, both aged 20 and believed to be from Co Down, were among 33 people injured after the vehicle they were travelling in overturned in the Somme region yesterday.
The couple were treated for head and hand injuries after the bus tipped over close to the village of Ablaincourt-Pressoir at around 11am.
The coach, which was travelling from Paris to London and was operated by a regional partner for the German transport firm, was carrying 32 passengers and the driver when it tipped over in the rain and overturned.
Photographs show the bus on its side on a grass verge close to the road with a broken front windshield and a large hole in the front right side.
FlixBus have said five people were seriously hurt and other passengers treated in a local hospital.
Mr Kerr's father John said his son, who is a student at Glasgow University, and Ms Given were making their way home today following their terrifying ordeal.
He said they had endured a "pretty traumatic end to a Halloween weekend".
Mr Kerr also said Ms Given, a student at Brighton University, had her bag taken for examination by police because a passenger who was seriously injured had been lying on it.
"That brought home to me how close they were to being seriously injured," he told the BBC.
He added: "They'll learn a lot from all of this but I'm expecting an emotional response when they get home and it all hits them".
The coach had 10 British citizens, 11 people from France, five from the US and two from Romania onboard as well as others from Spain, Australia, Mauritius, Japan and Sri Lanka.
A FlixBus spokesperson said: "Injured passengers were taken to local hospitals; those not requiring medical attention are being taken care of by local authorities.
"FlixBus is in close contact with the relevant authorities in order to determine the exact cause of the accident and to ensure all passengers receive appropriate support."
