
# Birmingham City angry as Premier League referee once again causes penalty controversy

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:00:33+00:00**

Author: **Brian Dick, https://www.facebook.com/blueswriterbriandick/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/birmingham-city-angry-premier-league-17190655)

Premier League referee Andrew Madley was once again at the heart of a penalty controversy, this time during Birmingham City’s match with Cardiff City.
With Blues comfortable and leading 1-0 after Kristian  Pedersen’s early strike the official awarded the hosts a penalty to  hand the Bluebirds a spot-kick on the half hour.
Cardiff had a corner before which Madley spoke to Maxime Colin and Marlon Pack about wrestling off the ball.
When the delivery finally came in Blues headed it clear but Madley pointed straight to the spot affording Ralls the chance to level.
Before Ralls stepped up Madley spoke to Harlee Dean.
Madley returned to Championship duty after officiating Brighton’s 3-2 win over Everton last weekend.
The game was not without controversy as Brighton were awarded a penalty via VAR after Madley had initially said nothing should be given.
However, referee Lee Mason reportedly viewed replays 14 times before deciding the hosts should have a spot kick.
Former Premier League referee Peter Walton criticised Madley for his part in the decision.
“The VAR in that game, Lee Mason, has told Andy Madley that is a penalty kick,” he told BT Sport.
“Again we go back to whether the referee should go over to the monitor. I think Andy Madley should have went over to the monitor and said let me have a look.
“It is a huge decision to be given in a game like this.”
This is your round up of all things Birmingham City; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Blues throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest BCFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Blues reporter Brian Dick on Twitter, and his email address is Brian.Dick@reachplc.com
Clearly there is no VAR facility in the Championship but this time the referee had no hesitation pointing to the spot.
The decision came after Peter Bankes had awarded Wigan a penalty when Swansea’s Mike van der Hoorn tugged Chey Dunkley’s shirt in the earlier game.
Soon after Blues conceded a second goal to Curtis Nelson and trailed 2-1 at the break.
