
# Bundle A Nest Hub Max & Learning Thermostat E For $309

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:22:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-nest-hub-max-thermostat-e-buydig-sale-cheap.html)

BuyDig is currently bundling the new Nest Hub Max, and the Nest Thermostat E together for just $309.99. That is actually $89 off of the regular price, if you were to buy these two separately.
This is going to be a really great gift for those that are just getting started in making their home a smart home.
As the Nest Hub Max can function as a hub (hence the name) for all of your smart home products. That way you can control them on that display, or with your voice using the Google Assistant. And it also gives you a Nest Cam to keep your home safe when you're not home.
Advertisement
There's a 10.1-inch display, which can get to be pretty bright, and it's great for watching videos, or just checking out photos from the album you've selected for your background.
Now, the Nest Thermostat E is a much lower-end thermostat compared to its Learning Thermostat. Which is why it's much cheaper. It does have that white background and the text is in orange. It might not be the look that everyone wants, but it is a pretty cool one.
Just because it is cheaper, doesn't mean it's missing a lot of features. It still works with Google Assistant, as you might expect. It also can automatically adjust to the temperature that you want in your home. So you can set the room temperature to 70 degrees, and it'll adjust automatically to keep it there. That's going to save you money on your electric and heating bill, and that's something we can all appreciate.
Advertisement
You can pick up this bundle of the Nest Hub Max and the Nest Thermostat E from BuyDig right now for just $309.99. The $89 coupon has already been applied, so simply click here and you will get that price.

        Nest Hub Max & Nest Thermostat E Bundle - BuyDig - $309
      
