
# Andreas Seidl highlights one area that McLaren could improve on

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Louis Shaw**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49540/andreas-seidl-highlights-one-area-that-mclaren-could-improve-on.html)


        McLaren have cemented themselves as the 'best of the rest' in the constructor's championship this season and team boss Andreas Seidl is very pleased with how they have performed. Both Lando Norris and Carlos Sainz performed well at the US Grand Prix and continue to show how reliable and fast they both are. 
      
"It was important for us to fight back after a very difficult Sunday in Mexico," Seidl said after the US Grand Prix. "With ten points in my pocket, I am very happy with a solid racing weekend.

        “In my opinion, the performance in qualifying was very positive, so it seems that we have really taken a step in that area compared to the rest of the midfield. In addition, the start of both of our cars was great again. 
      
With only two races left this season, Seidl believes that there is an area that McLaren can still improve on. 

        “What we have to work on now is the next step in the race itself, not just the qualification. Ricciardo was slightly faster on Sunday. We have now seen twice that we have a problem with the aero that suddenly comes around. First in Mexico, now here. Maybe we should convert some of Saturday's performance to race space.”
      
McLaren have had a solid season and will hope to keep improving as they head into the 2020 season and look to the future. 
