
# Final places up for grabs in Paul McGirr Tournament

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/gaafootball/2019/11/02/news/final-places-up-for-grabs-in-paul-mcgirr-tournament-1754516/)

Paul McGirr Ulster Under 16 Club Champions Tournament: Today: 2.15pm: Gardrum Park, Dromore: Burren (Down) v Ghoath Dobhair (Donegal)
The second semi-final of the Paul McGirr Ulster U16 Club Champions Tournament looks set to be a heavyweight battle between two talented sides, Down champions Burren and Donegal kingpins Ghaoth Dobhair.
Burren’s amazing quarter-final performance against Magherafelt has sent shivers down the spine of everyone else remaining in the competition and marked them out as favourites to take the coveted Cuchaillan trophy.
Ghoath Dobhair though will have other thoughts and will certainly be looking to cut down the space that was afforded to the lightening Burren attack.
Since winning the All-Ireland Feile in 2017 this Burren side has been marked out as one of the outstanding sides in youth football and their quarter-final showing has added to those thoughts.
Patrick McCarthy and Ryan Magill lead a star-studded defence who were pretty much impenetrable, their midfield pairing of the outstanding Odhran Murdock and James Kelly get through a mountain of work for their side, while up front there is no shortage of match winners in a ruthless attack.
Niall Toner and the Murdocks, Zach, Michael and Aaron, were the scorers in chief when they racked up an 8-15 scoreline against a highly-rated Magherafelt defence.
The possible return from injury of Conlin Bradley would give an added dimension to a Burren side, who will not be short in confidence and experience.
Manager Neil Coulter is determined that his side make amends for his side's defeat in the semi-final last year,
''Burren are really looking forward to this clash against a very pacey and impressive Ghoath Dobhair side,'' he said.
''They took care of Ardboe with ease last week particularly in the second half, we really need to be at the top of our game.
''It has the marking of a really exciting game between two top footballing sides.
''We realise that Ghaoth Dobhair won’t give us the space and time that we were afforded last week.
''The challenge is to get the players refocussed, sharp and keep them fresh for the challenge ahead and use the hurt of last year to spurn them on.'
''It will be a huge challenge for Burren but one we look forward to test ourselves to see how far we have improved since last year.''
Ghaoth Dobhair had been out of football since their county final win in July,
It took them a while to get into their stride against Tyrone champions Ardboe in last weekend’s quarter-final ... but once they shook off the cobwebs and got over their competition nerves they really stepped up and showed the quality that saw them annex a tough Donegal championship.
A devastating second-half performance - they held their opponents to just one score - showed the quality they possess and a repeat that second-period performance will certainly put the fancied Burren outfit on the back foot.
Imposing full-back Eamon Mac Giolla Bhríde looks to have all the tools required to test Zach Murdock and their half-back line of Darragh Ó Fearraigh, Cian Mac a'tSaoi and Johnny Ó Dónaill form an impressive defensive unit who also have a keen eye for a score.
The strong running Stiofan Mac Pháidín at midfield is his side top scorer and his battle with Odhran Murdock will be key to the outcome of the game.
Managers John deBurca and Micheal Ó Fearraigh though will be looking for a better scoring return from their forwards if they are to reach the next weekend’s final.
It has been an historic season for this Ghaoth Dobhair side and deBurca is determined that his charges can go one step further.
''Our lads are really looking forward to Saturday’s semi-final. Having got a glimpse of Burren’s dominant performance last weekend we are well aware of the considerable task in putting it up to them,'' he said.
''But the lads won’t be lacking in hunger or motivation come throw-in time.
''With Burren we probably need to start like we finish against Ardboe but that’s easier said than done.
''The whole club is very proud of this group's achievements so far and we would like nothing more than another chance to experience the great hospitality afforded us by the Dromore club and McGirr family with another week’s football.''
Ghaoth Dobhair are a strong side and will certainly provide stiff opposition especially if they can replicate their second-half quarter-final performance.
They will be looking to cut down the space that the Burren attack thrives on but the all-round talent of this Burren side pushed on by the determination to go one step further than last year may just prove too much for the Donegal lads in what should be a high-scoring encounter.
 
 
 
 
Paul McGirr Ulster Under 16 Club Champions Tournament: Today: 12 noon: Gardrum Park, Dromore: Clan Na Gael (Armagh) v O’Donovan Rossa (Antrim)
Armagh champions Clan Na Gael will face Antrim’s O’Donovan Rossa today at 12:00 noon in a battle for a place in next weekend’s Paul McGirr Ulster U16 Club Champions Tournament final.
Clan Na Gael are a club with Ulster pedigree and Laurence McGuinness’s young charges are keen to add their name to the proud Lurgan club’s roll of honour.
Centre forward Matthew Lennon was the star of the show in their comprehensive quarter-final defeat of Newtownbutler and his battle with Eoin Treanor will be key to the outcome of this tie.
They have a very strong half-back line of Callum O’Neill, Brendan O’Hagan and the robust Michael McConville - all who are well capable of getting their names on the score-sheet.
But they will be looking for an improved performance from their midfield who struggled somewhat against Newtownbutler.
Wing forward Odhran McGivern is another scoring threat for the Armagh champions who play an exciting brand of football and have a keen eye for goal.
Manager Laurence McGuinness is determined that his side make the best of this weekend’s opportunity
''The lads are really looking forward to Saturday, paying in the biggest cup competition at their level,'' he said.
''We are just going to go out and really have a go, we having nothing to lose buy plenty to gain experience wise.
''The lads have really enjoyed the experience and have been turning out for training buzzing, embracing the higher level of competition and having this great opportunity to get to an Ulster final.
''We know Rossa will be tough opponents and probably slight favourites, but we will just go out and hopefully play the football the Clans way and enjoy the occasion.''
Rossa reached the final of this prestigious competition in 2015 and will be keen to put a big performance in again this Saturday to get back to that stage.
Jointly managed by Bill Kelly and Deaglan White, the West Belfast lads came through a bruising encounter by the minimum margin against Monaghan champions Carrickmacross in the quarter-final and they will be hoping the lessons they learned in that battle will stand to them as they face the challenge of the Armagh champions.
The defensive and counter attacking style of football they play may suit as they try to stymie a talented Clan Na Gael attack.
Diarmaid Rogan and Patrick Moyes drop back from their attacking positions to shore up their defence where captain Conor Boyle and Matthew McKernan feature strongly in their counter attacking game.
They have a very strong midfield partnership in Ruairi Murray and Ben MacAuley who could hold the key to victory in this semi-final.
Liam Carr’s ball-winning abilities are the fulcrum of their attack where Barra McCafferty and Michael McDaid provide the scoring threat.
Rossa’s Bill Kelly was hoping his side would make the best of the occasion.
''Going into the competition we wanted to do ourselves and our county proud. Now we are in the semi-final the mindset hasn’t really changed,'' he said.
''We know that semi-finals can be cagey affairs with teams more afraid of getting beat than going for the win.
''Hopefully we won’t fall into that trap. Our experience of the competition has exceeded expectations.
''Hopefully come Saturday evening we have another even greater experience to look forward to in a week’s time.''
The tie is very hard to call. Rossa will be hoping their defensive game can nullify a talented Clan Na Gael attack and their strength in midfield might tip the tie in their favour but Lennon and his team-mates certainly know where the posts are and wont make it easy for the Antrim champions.
The game looks to be a close call that may take extra time to decide.
