
# 'Embarrassing' - Manchester United fans slam shock link with Wolves transfer target

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:12:25+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/dwight-mcneil-man-utd-transfer-17207291)

Manchester United fans have slammed reports linking them with Wolverhampton Wanderers transfer ‘target’ Dwight McNeil.
The Burnley winger has attracted plenty of Premier League admirers ahead of the January window having caught the eye for Sean Dyche’s side in the last 12 months.
Having made his senior debut last year, the 19-year-old has become a regular starter for the Clarets.
Wolves were linked with McNeil earlier this week, even though his reported £30m price tag wouldn’t tie in with the club’s philosophy either with chairman Jeff Shi recently revealing his frustration about the transfer market.
This is your round up of all things Wolves; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Wolves throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WWFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Wolves reporter Alex Dicken on Twitter, and his email address is Alex.Dicken@reachplc.com
 
“I feel a little bit frustrated about the market inflation but we are still working very hard," he said. "Our scouting team are working really hard around Europe and the world to find good talent to help us.
“We are strong and we know where we are maybe a little bit weak, and I keep talking to Nuno about it. I think we will have a good window in January.”
 
Man Utd are now said to be interested as they identify potential new signings to boost Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s struggling squad.
But fans aren’t particularly impressed that McNeil’s name has cropped up after he was allowed to leave Old Trafford as a youth player five years ago.
Here's what they have been saying:
@SidaniAbdul: That’s embarrassing if true, it’s why Ed and the Glazers and Ole need to go.
@Surgeryscar: There’s the cheaper Jordan Sancho.
@Mk123syd: Errr who?
 
@Marvelous_769: We gave him away.
@Worksop69: Don't keep up with Burnley's team & don't remember McNeil's name mentioned in conjunction with #MUFC before! No idea who he is.
@Adoc26: No we’re not.
@M4TT_D4VIES: This sounds more like Man Utd. Forget Sancho, lets pay money for a player we let go for free years ago.
