
# Jane Technologies CEO: Socrates Rosenfeld Discovers Five Questions

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Warren Bobrow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/warrenbobrow/2019/11/04/jane-technologies-ceo-socrates-rosenfeld-discovers-five-questions/)

With Veterans Day around the corner, we catch up with Jane Technologies CEO, Socrates Rosenfeld, a former Army commander who discovered a new way to serve his country and fellow veterans, by increasing education and access to cannabis. In a world dominated by major multi-national online retailers, Jane Technologies, the first and largest cannabis e-commerce retailer, uses innovative technology to support local businesses, and connect customers to peer-reviewed products in the process. The company recently announced a $21million Series B funding to expand its unique retail model to keep up with global demand for cannabis products sold online.
Jane is the only cannabis software platform with real-time integration into an existing point of sale system, meaning canna-curious consumers can search peer-reviewed products from the comfort of their own home for delivery straight off the shelf of their local dispensary.
Not only is Jane educating millions of consumers with peer-reviewed products, it’s also creating revenue for businesses and brands featured. Dispensaries and brands that may otherwise have been overlooked by consumers are now seeing real results by being on the platform.
Since launching as the first online marketplace in 2017, the company is now in partnership with more than 800 stores across 23 states and offers over 160,000 products for sale.

        Warren Bobrow=WB: Where are you from? What brought you to where you are now? When did you first discover cannabis?
      
Socrates Rosenfeld: SR: I completed service in the U.S. Army as an Apache helicopter commander in 2011, and came home to Massachusetts to complete my MBA at MIT. Although I had all my faculties and had not been diagnosed with PTSD, I still felt I needed help to decompress and re-acclimate to civilian life. My wife suggested that I try cannabis for relaxation and it was a life-changing moment. With cannabis, I was able to better navigate through everyday life situations, manage my stress, reconnect with loved ones and get some much-needed sleep. Cannabis helped me find my presence again. The only problem was that since I was living in Massachusetts then, cannabis was not legal, leaving me to rely only on the black market where I couldn’t really be sure of the origins or the safety of the product I was buying. I knew I couldn’t be the only person looking for a safe environment to purchase the plant, so the idea for a peer-reviewed online marketplace was born in 2015.

        WB: Tell me about your company. What do you do that is different and therefore intriguing? What sets you apart from your peers?
      
SR: Ultimately, Jane is helping consumers make smart purchasing decisions, with confidence. Instead of purchasing blindly, consumers now have the purchasing power to browse through their local dispensaries from the comfort of their home while also looking through peer reviews of products, and comparing aspects like price, brands, effects and more.
For businesses, Jane empowers local dispensaries with a fully-automated eCommerce solution and helps generate business by connecting them to consumers that may have not purchased from them otherwise. We’re supporting local businesses, creating brand awareness, and keeping consumers informed and happy.

        WB: Tell me about your current state? Where do you see yourself in six months? A year?
      
SR: Currently, we are in partnership with more than 800 stores across 23 states with millions of users. We recently completed our latest round of funding which will allow us to expand into new markets overseas and grow our industry-leading team. We’ll continue building the best e-commerce model for consumers to shop online with confidence and support local businesses in the process.

        WB: What is your favorite kind of food? Do you have a favorite restaurant? Do you cook? Who taught you?
      
SR: It's actually funny. My mother is from Indonesia and all of my favorite meals growing up were classic American dishes with a southeast Asian twist. I love a good fusion, combining the best of what two cultures have to offer. Like Vietnamese food. The French culinary influence makes it stand out from other countries in the region. I, myself am not a cook. I'm more interested in the finished product.

        WB: If you could be anywhere in the world right now where would that be? Doing what? With whom?
      
SR: Anywhere along the California coast. Camping. With my wife and my dog. Unplugging gives me energy and perspective. There are so many nooks and crannies to explore, and it is the best feeling to go without reservations or any expectations. It's always better than I imagine. So, that's where I'd be. Those kinds of trips keep me balanced and in love with my work.
