
# HealthWest invest in local community healthcare

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:39:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/05/4181924-healthwest-invest-in-local-community-healthcare/)

HEALTHWEST Community Pharmacy has recently opened a second branch at Upper Main Street, Ballyhaunis, to join its flagship store in Ballindine.
Ultan Molloy, who is the proprietor pharmacist, said: “We're delighted to have opened up in such an interesting local community in Ballyhaunis. We have invested €500,000 in a state of the art pharmacy, and have received fantastic local support since the doors have opened in Ballyhaunis.
“Safe and effective medicines and advice are what we pride ourselves on.”
Ballyhaunis has a multicultural population of over 2,600 people, has numerous factories and businesses, and a thriving local community that continues to grow.
“We want HealthWest Community Pharmacy to become the healthcare outlet of choice for all of our communities,” Mr. Molloy explained. “We're open long hours, and have a medical professional available to the public without the need for an appointment.”
When asked how HealthWest is different to any other pharmacy, he explained: “We pride ourselves on living our core values of community focus, trusted advice, exceptional service and warm friendship, in how we look after people coming through the door. That is what makes us unique. Customers feel looked after, and they experience this, from our highly trained team of experts.”
HealthWest Community Pharmacy in Ballindine also recently had a €200,000 refit, bringing it up to the most modern available standards. It delivers dispensing innovative services like the flu vaccination, blood pressure, blood glucose, cholesterol and BMI testing, as well as all the expected prescription services, over the counter medicines, and the trusted advice you'd expect from this professional pharmacy service, established back in 2007.
