
# One in five Brits has sex just three times a year, survey shows

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:38:52+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/science/one-five-brits-sex-just-20809255)

If you’re not getting much action in the bedroom, you’ll be relieved to hear that you’re not alone.
A new survey by zaucey.com has revealed that 22% of Brits are leading a virtually sexless existence, having sex just three times a year.
The online platform surveyed 2,002 Brits about their sex lives, and found that 30% of Brits claim they don’t have time for sex, while 20% simply ‘can’t be bothered.’
The results also showed that for 14% of Brits, their partner’s fatigue is to blame for a lack of bedroom action, while 13% think a lack of spark in their relationship is responsible.
At the other end of the spectrum, just 6% report that they have sex daily. This means that on average, Brits have sex just once every 75 days.
 
The survey also raises questions about people’s motives for having sex.
While 52% of respondents said that when they have sex it’s because they want to, only 41% said that they have sex because they think it’s fun or it makes them happy.
Sadly, 17% said that they have sex because it’s what’s expected in a relationship.
Based on the findings, the researchers are campaigning for better sex in the UK, with the hashtag #AtLeastOnceAWeek.
Anna Kieran, Director of zaucey.com, said: “Sex is a necessary part of our lives, it’s a kind of self-care, and it’s the basis of a healthy relationship.
"Something needs to be done, so we’re calling on people up and down the nation to have sex #AtLeastOnceAWeek.”
