
# NBFCs must keep 1-month cash needs in liquid assets

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TNN**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/nbfcs-must-keep-1-month-cash-needs-in-liquid-assets/articleshow/71913521.cms)

MUMBAI: Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) will now have to maintain liquid reserves to ensure that they have a buffer for any unexpected requirements.
The new rules are a fallout of the crisis in the sector following defaults by large firms like IL&FS Financial Services. The liquidity norms announced by the RBI on Monday, will apply to most NBFCs like the ones lending to real estate developers and retail consumers for housing, vehicle and microfinance loans.
The only NBFCs exempt from this will be pure-play investment companies and government bond dealers.
The liquid reserves have to be in high-quality assets like government bonds, debt securities or actual cash that is adequate to fund 30 days of operations. The presence of liquid reserves will prevent an NBFC from going into a default spiral if some inflows get delayed. There have been instances of NBFCs being downgraded and having their loans recalled after they failed to meet an instalment to a lender.
While earlier NBFCs were not required to maintain liquidity ratios, now the RBI has asked them to monitor cash outflows for a seven-day period. Based on that, NBFCs are supposed to arrive at how much cash they would need for a 30-day period using liquidity monitoring tools used by banks. By December 1, 2020, NBFCs with loan portfolio/asset size of Rs 10,000 and above will have to maintain a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) of 50%, and NBFCs with asset size of Rs 5,000-10,000 crore will have to maintain a LCR of 30%. After this, the RBI has increased LCR limits year-on-year for NBFCs — by December 1, 2024, all NBFCs will have to maintain a LCR of 100% akin to banks.
So far, NBFCs were only required to maintain a capital adequacy ratio (CAR) of 15%, unlike private banks which had a mandatory CAR requirement of 9% and PSBs 12%. However, with the new liquidity norms, NBFCs players said their margins are likely to go up as cost of operations increase.
“For an NBFC with a loan portfolio of Rs 5,000 crore, on average the cost of operation could be Rs 500-750 crore in a month (10-15% of asset size). Now if we have to keep that money unused or buy assets for that much — our margins will be under pressure. It is already a very tough business to be in,” said an NBFC’s CEO.
The move, NBFC players said was aimed only at the large players and not for NBFCs with asset size of between Rs 100-5,000 crore. “It’s these large players that pose a systemic risk of Rs 1-lakh-crore assets failing. So, that is what the RBI is trying to prevent....similar to the concept of “too big to fail” with the 2008 financial crisis,” said the CEO.
