
# Starbucks red cups are here - as well as a new toasted marshmallow hot chocolate

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Molly Holt, https://www.facebook.com/mollyjaholt/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/starbucks-red-cups-here-well-20807419)

Nothing says Christmas quite like the sight of Starbucks' iconic red cups. So turn up the Michael Bublé album and get your cringey Christmas jumpers out, as the coffee shop's statement cups are finally here.
Launching today (Tuesday 5 November) alongside their new winter food and drinks menu, this year Starbucks will also be launching its signature cups in reusable form, as well as the standard paper.
Costing £1.50 for the reusable version - but able to be used again and again - you'll also get a 25p discount every time you bring it.
As for the paper ones, there's a 5p charge, in order to try encourage Starbucks fans to bring their reusable one back instead.
The new cups are joined by Starbucks' festive food and drink menu, which includes a ‘Tis the Season Turkey Sandwich, Festive Feast Panini and plethora of seasonal sweet treats, such as mince pies, Christmas tree brownies, Twinkle and Sprinkle caramel cupcakes and Christmas bauble chocolate loaf cake.
Drinks-wise, Starbucks will be debuting a brand new winter warmer this year: their Toasted Marshmallow hot chocolate, which combines your usual hot chocolate with delicious marshmallow syrup, topped with marshmallow flavoured whipped cream. It sounds like exactly the type of thing we expect to come out of Willy Wonka's chocolate factory...
A trio of legendary fan favourites are also back by popular demand, including the good old Gingerbread Latte, classic Toffee Nut Latte and traditional Eggnog Latte, which are all also available in ice versions.
There might be a lot on the wish list, but you do have plenty of time to get your hands on the range, which will be available - alongside the red cups - all the way up until the 2nd January.
