
# Arizona child hospitalized after eating suspicious candy

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:22:17+00:00**

Author: **KNXV Staff**

Original: [Fox 4](https://www.fox4now.com/news/national/arizona-child-hospitalized-after-eating-suspicious-candy)

YUMA, Ariz. — Arizona police are investigating after a 3-year-old child was hospitalized after ingesting suspicious Halloween candy.
Officials received word of the incident before 9 p.m. Thursday when the child displayed abnormal behavior after eating some candy. Police say the child was lethargic, had dilated pupils and was acting out of the ordinary.
Officers checked all of their Halloween candy and found an unwrapped red gummy-type candy in their bucket. The candy reportedly resembled a red fish-shaped candy known to be laced with Tetrahydrocannabinol, also known as THC.
The candy was collected by officials and will be sent for testing.
The family reportedly took part in the Trick or Treat Main Street event and Safe Trick or Treat at the Yuma Fairgrounds.
Police are asking parents to go through the Halloween candy their children collected and check for unwrapped or red gummy items that resemble a fish.
The Yuma Police Department encourages anyone with any information about this incident to please call the Yuma Police Department at 928-373-4700 or 928-782-7463 to remain anonymous.
Authorities also issued a warning to parents Halloween night after receiving reports of "contaminated candy" in the West Valley.

        This story was originally published by Ashley Loose on KNXV.
      
