
# ABS-CBN assured of fair shake

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:49:24+00:00**

Author: **Jester P. Manalastas**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/abs-cbn-assured-fair-shake)

In an interview, Cayetano said the committee on franchise will soon start hearing the pending proposals for  granting ABS-CBN another 25-year franchise to operate during which several issues against the network will be addressed.
Cayetano said he himself had a bad experience with the company during the 2016 national elections.
“There are people with issues, narinig niyo sa ating Pangulo. Ako mismo, apat kaming naimbitahan na vice presidential candidates sa DZMM.
“Yung isa nilabas sa 6:30 p.m. news, sa Bandila, sa Umagang Kay Ganda at lunch time. Yung dalawa sa amin, DZMM and then Bandila. Yung isa sa amin sa DZMM (lang), hindi lumabas sa iba,” Cayetano complained without naming names.
According to the House leader the company should answer the complaints of the other candidates, especially President Duterte who paid P2 million but his political ad was not aired.
To date there are at least six bills proposing the approval of the franchise of ABS-CBN which will expire in March 2020.
When Cayetano was asked if the House will grant the renewal of the ABS-CBN franchise before it expires, he did not categorically answer but only said the chamber will be “fair” to all camps.
“Ang ginagarantiya ko ay ang 18th Congress will be fair at magkakaroon ng hearing.
“On one hand there are real issues. So may mga katanungan kami or issues.
“But I’m sure meron ding stand at meron din pag sagot diyan,” he said.
“Mag hearing muna tayo, pakinggan muna natin yung issues—base dun sa mapakinggan natin, we will make a decision. We will make a decision—the decision is the consequence of the hearing and hindi baliktad,” he added.
