
# Celtic kid Lee O'Connor gets international boost as defender earns Ireland call-up

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:28:29+00:00**

Author: **Mark McDougall, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/mark-mcdougall/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/celtic-kid-lee-oconnor-gets-20834204)

Celtic summer signing Lee O'Connor has earned a call-up to the Republic of Ireland senior team.
The defender is yet to make a first-team appearance for the Hoops since moving north of the border on deadline day.
But he's impressed enough for Ireland U21s to earn a place in Mick McCarthy's senior side for the friendly with New Zealand.
The 19-year-old is suspended for the U21s game against Armenia but will then leave the 'A' squad to link up with Stephen Kenny's youngsters for a game against Sweden.
O'Connor is one of only two Scottish based players in McCarthy's squad - Hearts' Glenn Whelan is the other - and the former Wolves and Ipswich boss is delighted to give him a chance.
He said: “With Lee suspended for the first of the two Under-21 matches, this is the perfect opportunity to have a look at him in the friendly, introduce him to senior international football and see how he gets on. I’ve been impressed with him for the 21s and I know how important he is to them for that Sweden game so this is a win-win for all concerned.
“Likewise, Troy Parrott is in the squad for the first time and he will feature against New Zealand next Thursday. All he has to do is look at how well Aaron Connolly did last time in Georgia and Switzerland to see the opportunity that is there for him now.
“The same will apply for other players who will get a chance against New Zealand and can give me something to think about for the Denmark match. We know that’s the game we have to win and I can’t wait to get into camp now on Sunday and start working with these players again.”
Former Motherwell goalkeeper Darren Randolph, ex-Hibs loanee Matt Doherty and former Kilmarnock midfielder Jack Byrne are all also included.
