
# Avengers: Endgame Has Some 'Insane' Unused Takes Of Iron Man's Final Scene

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:12:50+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483685/avengers-endgame-has-some-insane-unused-takes-of-iron-man-final-scene)

Written By
Avengers: Endgame gave fans plenty of unforgettable moments. But none was more memorable, or more pivotal, than Tony Stark’s last interaction with Thanos. His rebuttal to the Mad Titan’s claim of inevitability secured the Avengers’ victory, and also signaled the end of Iron Man as we knew him. And according to one of the film’s key players, there is a ton of totally insane footage of Robert Downey Jr. making sure that last moment hit exactly the way it needed to.
The film’s editor, Jeff Ford, was a part of the process of creating Tony’s incredible final scene. He told Collider that the Avengers: Endgame team worked tirelessly with Robert Downey Jr. to make it perfect. He said:
It’s hard to imagine Tony’s “I am Iron Man” being delivered any other way. But it’s natural to be curious about what could have been. Jeff Ford was gracious enough to elaborate on what some of the other takes looked like, telling Collider:
This isn’t the first time we’ve heard about the iterative process that happened behind the scenes on Avengers: Endgame. The collaborative approach allowed for one of the film’s most iconic exchanges, thanks to Robert Downey Jr.’s creative input. But in the making of the historic blockbuster, a lot was left on the cutting room floor, like a moment between Tony and an adult version of his daughter Morgan. Some of the Russo Brothers’ big ideas didn’t even leave the drawing board -- like James Rhodes becoming the Vice President, or even, shockingly, the film ending without Tony’s heroic death.
Fans can cross their fingers to see if any of those "insane" Iron Man takes made the cut of the upcoming Infinity Saga box set.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
