
# Coronation Street villain Gary Windass 'to kill' Ali Neeson as next victim confirmed

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:35:03+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/coronation-street-villain-gary-windass-20812199)

Coronation Street viewers believe villain Gary Windass will murder doctor Ali Neeson in a new twist.
Gary started a romance with Ali's ex Maria in recent episodes, leading to the two men falling out - with Gary eager to wind the doctor up and get what he wanted.
But there was awkward scenes on Monday night, as Maria kissed Ali when he confessed he regretted dumping her.
Gary learned of the moment and was left pretty furious, hoping to get Maria all to himself and steal her off Ali.
In fact he made it his mission to get one over on the doctor, before making it clear he had plans for his rival.
 
As the episode ended, a smug Gary was pretty pleased with himself but still wanted revenge on Ali.
In scenes to come he will hire a private detective to get some dirt on the doctor, following him being reported for negligence over Emma Brooker's hospital dash.
A distracted Ali told her she probably had food poisoning when it was in fact a ruptured appendix.
Now, he wants to take Ali down and find out something that he can use against him.
But viewers feared for Michelle Connor's son, predicting the moment with Maria was enough to send killer Gary over the edge.
Having already killed loan shark Rick Neelan as well as causing the death of Rana Habeeb in the factory roof collapse, fans now think Ali is his next victim.
One fan said: "Ali is going to regret crossing the killing machine Windass."
Another agreed: "Gary didn't look happy to see Ali & Maria kiss. Ali better watch his back."
A third begged: "Poor Ali please don't hurt him Gary," while a fourth said: "Gary watching on Ali's a dead man."
There's set to be huge scenes on the cards as the storyline develops, with Adam Barlow also caught up in the drama.

        Coronation Street airs Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays at 7:30pm and 8:30pm on ITV.
      
