
# Ten minute hack could make you feel as if you've had extra 44 minutes of sleep

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:21:30+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/ten-minute-hack-could-make-20818582)

Would it be wonderful if you could feel a little more replenished and ready to take on the day each morning - even without a full eight hours sleep.
Well, according to new research, published in the Journal of Business Venturing , there might just be a way to do that.
Experts from Oregon State University, the University of Tennessee and Syracruse University claim that doing just 10 minutes of mindfulness exercises a day, such as breathing exercises, can help you feel as if you got an extra 44 minutes of sleep.
After completing two studies, on busy entrepreneurs who were feeling very tired, but didn't have enough time to sleep, they found that "mindfulness exercises provide avenues for entrepreneurs to combat exhaustion".
 
The research showed how sleep and mindfulness go hand-in-hand, with researchers concluding that "these two factors compensate for one another; as the usage of one increases, the efficacy of the other decreases."
Charles Munieks, the study's lead author, explained: "You can't replace sleep with mindfulness exercises, but they might help compensate and provide a degree of relief.
"As little as 70 minutes a week, or 10 minutes a day, of mindfulness practice may have the same benefits as an extra 44 minutes of sleep a night."
 
However the findings did also show that the exercises didn't help those who were getting enough sleep but feeling exhausted due to stress of work.
"If you're feeling stressed and not sleeping, you can compensate with mindfulness exercises to a point," added Munieks.
"But when you're not low on sleep, mindfulness doesn't improve those feelings of exhaustion."
Sarah Romotsky, the Director of Healthcare at  Headspace, defines mindfulness as "the quality of being present by focusing one’s awareness on our feelings, thoughts and sensations without judgement. By noting emotions and feelings they are able to manage them in a healthy manner and approach life with a refreshed mind."
Speaking to  the NHS,  Professor Mark Williams, former director of the  Oxford Mindfulness Centre,  adds: "Mindfulness also allows us to become more aware of the stream of thoughts and feelings that we experience and to see how we can become entangled in that stream in ways that are not helpful.
"This lets us stand back from our thoughts and start to see their patterns. Gradually, we can train ourselves to notice when our thoughts are taking over and realise that thoughts are simply 'mental events' that do not have to control us.
"Most of us have issues that we find hard to let go and mindfulness can help us deal with them more productively. We can ask: 'Is trying to solve this by brooding about it helpful, or am I just getting caught up in my thoughts?'"

        For more information and tips on mindful exercises, visit www.mind.org.uk/information-support/drugs-and-treatments/mindfulness/mindfulness-exercises-tips/#.XcG8WkX7R24
      

        Or https://www.headspace.com/meditation/exercises
      
