
# The new approach keeping looked-after children out of crime in North Yorkshire

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:00:25+00:00**

Author: **Josh Halliday**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/society/2019/nov/06/new-approach-looked-after-children-crime-north-yorkshire)


        Bringing a team of specialists together under one roof has led to a drop in arrests and drug use
      
On the face of it, 15-year-old Matty is not like many children in care in North Yorkshire. He has a part-time job, goes to college, and plans to study A-levels. But a few weeks ago he was kicked out of his family home after being arrested for possession of a knife.
The teenager, who had never previously been in trouble with the police, was taken into care and placed temporarily with a family friend until he can be found somewhere permanent to live. Care workers also want to steer him away from a troublesome group of friends.
“He is on the edge,” said Jezz Pratt, a former police officer turned children’s worker. “The next two to three months are going to be crucial for him. He’s one of those where you could see him in five or six years and he’s happy with a house and a job.” Or, he adds, Matty could be yet another looked-after child who ends up homeless or involved in serious criminality.
Matty is one of 66 children in care in North Yorkshire who are part of a pioneering scheme that aims to stop the “systemic problem” of the criminalisation of looked-after children. Those living in care are 15 times more likely to be criminalised than other children, according to research by the Howard League for Penal Reform. Often, looked-after children are prosecuted over minor incidents that would never warrant police action if they happened in family homes.
The North Yorkshire initiative, called No Wrong Door, is based on a dedicated team of specialists including a police officer, a clinical psychologist and a speech and language therapist who are based at each of the region’s two council-run children’s homes, in Scarborough and Harrogate. There are no uniforms, no suits and no appointments – the professionals have a mentor-like relationship with the children based on informal chats over breakfast, in the car, or at the gym.
And the scheme is having impressive results: an independent report by Loughborough University found a 38% drop in arrests, a 68% reduction in children going missing, a 33% fall in drug use, and hospital admissions reduced by 92% in its first 18 months from 2015 to 2017.
The programme is being rolled out to six other children’s services and has attracted interest from more than 100 councils across Britain, as well as further afield in Australia, the US and the Caribbean. It has won praise from Ofsted, the chief social worker for England, Isabelle Trowler, and Sir Martin Narey, the former director general of prisons.
The key to its success is having a specialist team all under one roof. “Kids fall out of bed and they need to speak to Ian [the clinical psychologist], they knock on his door,” said Cerena Butterworth, the team manager at the Scarborough home. Each child has a dedicated support worker, who is their consistent point of contact, while the police, council, psychologist and speech therapist – who ordinarily would have little contact with each other – work closely in the interests of the child.
Although a police officer is based at the children’s home every day, there are no handcuffs or helmets. “If uniform turns up here, the kids are in crisis because what’s the background for the kid? They see a very negative view of the police because it’s the police turning up arresting mum or dad,” said Neil Millican, the resident police officer, dressed casually in jeans and shirt. “They go into fight or flight mode and they just fight. Then we’re having to arrest them for assault and they are in that cycle.”
Kirsty Basnett, the speech and language therapist, found that 51% of North Yorkshire’s looked-after children (and as many as two-thirds of those in residential care) had previously undiagnosed speech and language communication needs (SLCN), such as stammering and lack of eye contact, as well as wider problems with understanding language.
One girl with a previously undiagnosed SLCN was being arrested on a daily basis for breaching bail conditions that prohibited her from visiting a particular street in Scarborough. She would become angry at being arrested, leading to further arrests. Only when she was diagnosed did professionals realise that she simply could not understand the terms of her bail condition. They took her to the street to explain where she was not allowed to go and overnight she stopped offending.
“These kids would never normally be seen by someone like me,” said Basnett. “These are kids that are often forgotten about. People see the behaviour but don’t connect that with the communication difficulty – that’s why we need to be embedded [in children’s homes], otherwise it’s just lip service.”
“It comes down to: would it be good enough for my child?” said James Cliffe, who runs the Scarborough home, where Halloween decorations are dotted around a CS Lewis quote on the dining room wall: “You can’t go back and change the beginning, but you can start where you are and change the ending.” On Matty, Cliffe said the coming weeks would be crucial, but he was optimistic: “I am very hopeful for him.”
