
# Trent Alexander-Arnold responds to Gary Lineker telling him he should change position

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:17:44+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/trent-alexander-arnold-responds-gary-20825597)

Trent Alexander-Arnold appears happy to remain a right-back and not transform into Liverpool's version of Kevin De Bruyne.
Alexander-Arnold has made 101 appearances for Liverpool as a right-back - during which time he has made 28 assists and won the Champions League.
But Reds star Alexander-Arnold has been linked with a transformation into a midfielder in recent weeks - due in part to his incredible passing ability.
And England legend Lineker told the 21-year-old that he would like him to use his talents further up the field and manage matches like Manchester City superstar De Bruyne.
Lineker tweeted, alongside a re-tweet of a cross-field pass he made during the Reds' Champions League victory over Genk: "Would love to see Trent Alexander-Arnold play a similar role to Kevin De Bruyne."
Alexander-Arnold quickly replied: "One position at a time." Along with a smirking emoji.
Reds icon Jamie Carragher can also see Alexander-Arnold's future as a midfielder.
“I saw him in the Liverpool Academy and my son started there and was four, five years younger than him and Liverpool knew then they had a really good player,” Carragher told Norwegian TV before the match at Anfield.
“Still there are very few players who you think will be superstars, but if you think about what he has achieved at this young age – a Champions League winner and another Champions League final. He’s probably one of the best young players in the world if you think about what he has done.
“If you talk about (Kylian) Mbappe and he’s won the World Cup, but as a defender and playing at this level and how important he is to the team, he is possibly the most creative player in the team from right full-back.
“He has a lot of responsibility at a young age and he’s not going to be a superstar, he is a superstar.
“His strengths are that he can handle the ball and he is the most creative player in the team, just look at his assists.
“People talk about the future and could he come into midfield and be a Kevin De Bruyne type player and he has more quality now that Liverpool’s midfield players and you think about the crosses that De Bruyne puts in from the right midfield position and maybe that’s a position where Trent could play.
“But at the moment you wouldn’t think about moving position because he is playing so well.
“Defensively at times he can be suspect and the opposition maybe think they can get at Liverpool there because he pushes forward so much.
“His positional player and focus needs to be 100% focused, but he’s probably thinking ‘I’ve got Van Dijk next to me so I’ll be ok’.”
