
# Monsta X in Murky Waters as Group’s Leader Caught in Affair With Married Woman

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:13:15+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/viral/201911011077193165-monsta-x-in-murky-waters-as-groups-leader-caught-in-affair-with-married-woman/)

After announcing that Wonho is permanently leaving Monsta X, Starship agency was hit with another scandal: Han Seo Hee, ex-trainee and model, known for her scandals with idols Hanbin from Ikon and Top from Big Bang and radical feminist statements, revealed through her Instagram story a series of messages that her friend and rumoured to be girlfriend Jung Da Eun received from a now-deleted account where the sender claims his wife and the leader of the band Shownu were having an affair.
The account also gave a screenshot of the message he allegedly received from Starship Entertainment’s legal counsel. It said that Shownu had no idea that the woman was married or had a boyfriend, and if he knew that, he won’t date her. He has had no connection with her since September 10 and has no intentions to meet her in the future.
A couple of hours later, the agency made an official statement that the woman did not inform Shownu that she was married, thus causing the issue.
Recently the same Jung DaEun, with whom Wonho was a close friend and who appeared on the famous K-pop show “Ullzzang Generation”, claimed in her instagram that he borrowed money and hasn’t paid it back. She also added, “That annoys me after seeing him on TV. As soon as I find out his number, he disappears.”
In addition, Han SeoHee joined the witch hunt and also claimed that he owes her money.
