
# New four-lane tarred road from Thanlyin Bridge to Thilawa SEZ to be complete at the end of this year

Published at: **2019-11-04T06:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Shoon Lei Win**

Original: [Eleven Media Group Co., Ltd](https://elevenmyanmar.com/news/new-four-lane-tarred-road-from-thanlyin-bridge-to-thilawa-sez-to-be-complete-at-the-end-of-this)

 
New four-lane tarred road stretching from Thanlyin Bridge to Thilawa SEZ built with Japanese ODA loans will be completed at the end of 2019, according to Japanese Ambassador Mr. Ichio Maruyama.
“Transport is a key factor in Thilawa Special Economic Zone. The previous motor road looks very bad and it is being upgraded into a four-lane tarred road by spending ODA loans from Japan. It is earlier expected to finish in November, but we have some work left to do. Therefore, the new tarred road is expected to complete at the end of this year,” Japanese Ambassador Mr. Ichio Maruyama told the Daily Eleven.
The new four-lane tarred road is from Thalyin Bridge to Thilawa SEZ. The new four-lane tarred road and Bago River Crossing Bridge (Thanlyin Bridge-3) are under construction using Japanese ODA loans.
The stake driving ceremony of Bago River Crossing Bridge (Thanlyin Bridge-3) was held in Yangon. Bago River Crossing Bridge (Thanlyin Bridge-3) will be built through three phases spending Japanese ODA loans of US$ 300 million.
“A modern bridge is needed when Yangon is witnessed with developments. Thilawa SEZ and port have limits in durability. Traffic congestions occur on the existing bridge as the number of vehicles is on the increase. The construction companies of Japan are going to build the four-lane cable stayed bridge at the same time,” said Deputy Minister Kyaw Lin of the Ministry of Construction.
Bago River Crossing Bridge (Thanlyin Bridge-3) will connect Thanlyin with Thaketa. It is 1928 meters long and the length of the main bridge is 1224 meters. The approach bridge on Thaketa side is 300 meters long. The approach bridge on Thanlyin side is 404 meters.  
Translated and Edited by Win Htut
   
 
 
 
 
