
# TKO Build-Up: Billiat Vs Lorch, Who Will Light Up The Soweto Derby?

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/the-value-comparisons-between-khama-billiat-and-thembinkosi-lorch/666497)

Thembinkosi Lorch and Khama Billiat will be two of the many stars to watch at this weekend’s Soweto Derby showdown. But who will be the player to set the scene alight?
Lorch has never lost a competitive Soweto Derby clash since returning to Orlando Pirates in January of 2017, in fact, he seems to enjoy a Telkom Knockout fixture against his cross-city rivals.
Lorch scored the opening goal against Chiefs in last year’s TKO semi-final, in November of 2018, when Bucs sent their neighbours packing after a 2-1 defeat.
 Since returning to the Bucs in the middle of the 2017/18 season, the 26-year-old has scored three times against Amakhosi. The first in a 3-1 win in March 2018, the second in a 2-1 win in October 2018, and the third, in that unforgettable TKO semi-final clash.
 After his outstanding form last season, can the 26-year-old return to haunt Amakhosi this weekend and help guide Bucs past their perennial rivals?

        
          Read more: Why 3 Players Could Be ‘Rested’ Before League Soweto Derby
        
      

        Click through the gallery to view some images of Lorch in previous Soweto derbies
      
Khama Billiat on the other hand, who has been a fan favourite ever since joining Chiefs in July 2018, has played in three competitive Soweto derbies, and scored in just one fixture. That single goal came in the loss to Pirates in the TKO semi-finals. 
While the Zimbabwe international may not have the same record in the Soweto derbies as Lorch - Billiat will come into the encounter with his confidence booming. Chiefs have boasted a rich vein of form during the 2019/20 campaign, having suffered only one loss in all competitions. 
And Billiat has been crucial in his link-up play with both Samir Nurkovic and Leonardo Castro. Will the 29-year-old add to his goal-scoring tally this weekend?

        Click through the gallery to view some images of Billiat in previous Soweto derbies
      

        How Lorch and Billiat’s value differ according to transfermarkt.com:
      
Lorch: €1 million (±R16.8 million)
Billiat: €2 million (±R33.6 million)

        Who do you think will light up the Soweto derby this weekend? Let us know in the comments section below:
      
