
# Woman left fighting for life after catching flesh-eating bug from infected cat scratch

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:42:05+00:00**

Author: **Elaine McCahill, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/elaine-mccahill/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/woman-left-fighting-life-after-20800650)

A woman's heart stopped beating after a scratch from her Siamese cat became infected.
Shirley Hair, 65, was left fighting for her life after she contracted a flesh-eating bug when her pet cat, Chan, scratched her hand.
The wound on her knuckle became inflamed and turned bright red, the Daily Star reports.
Other symptoms included feeling dizzy, confusion, having no appetite and aching muscles.
However, Shirley realised something was seriously wrong when her arm swelled up and the skin turned black.
 
She was rushed to hospital and diagnosed with sepsis , septic shock, organ failure, pneumonia and the flesh-eating bug necrotising fasciitis.
Shirley underwent surgery to remove the infected tissue and was put in an induced coma for five days.
She spent two months in the ICU and had further surgeries and skin grafts.
Eventually, she was well enough to return home and decided to give up her £400 pet who she had bought from a breeder when he was 10-weeks old.
Shirley, who lives with her husband Bob, 69, in Winterbourne, Bristol, said: “That cat had always been spiteful. He was very expensive though.
 
“He was never nice to me and would lash out whenever possible.
“But as Chan got older he got more aggressive, often leaving us with bites and scratches. The day he scratched me I’d been gardening. I tried to pick him up for a cuddle but he wasn’t having it.
“I felt like I was going to die. I couldn’t believe this could all happen from a simple scratch.’’
During her extensive treatment, Shirley's health had declined and her family had been told to "expect the worst".
She even suffered two heart attacks following another operation to remove the infection.
Shirley said: “After coming out of the coma I was severely paranoid due to the combination of infection and medication.” Her children Zoe, 46, Jessica, 40, James, 38, and Rosie, 34, spent hours by her bedside.
After spending a month in the ICU, Shirley started to get better and doctors were able to take a skin graft from the top of her leg to cover her arm.
Shirley said: ‘’I can’t thank my family and the NHS enough for getting me back to almost full health. It’s been quite an ordeal, but they have all supported me 100%. I’m here and that’s all that matters.”
She added: “After all that happened I decided I really couldn’t face Chan the cat any more so my daughter Zoe volunteered to have him."
