
# Arsenal Announce New Captain After X-Rated Xhaka Rant

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:31:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/arsenal-announce-new-captain-after-x-rated-granit-xhaka-rant/666853)

Granit Xhaka has been stripped of the Arsenal captaincy after his X-rated rant towards his own club's fans, and a new captain was confirmed by Unai Emery on Tuesday.

        
          Click through the mini-gallery above to see Arsenal's current four captains.
        
      
The Swiss midfielder erupted in the 61st minute of his side's recent 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace after being booed by fans upon his substitution.
As he made his way off the pitch to loud jeers from his own team's supporters, he reacted by throwing his hands up in the air and swearing at the crowd before angrily removing his shirt and making his way straight down the tunnel.
Xhaka, who has since apologized and explained that death threats towards his family were the reason for his reaction, was dropped from Arsenal's next two matchday squads, and has now been stripped of his captaincy, manager Emery confirmed this week.
Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies! 
"He is not today here, but also I think we need time with him and first protect him also to be calm and training with us every day," the Gunners boss said, as quoted by The Independent.
"But I was speaking with him this morning, and also I decided he is not one of the captains in our group. I decided that and I told him this morning. He accepted my decision. And also I told the other captains the decision.
"We need to carry on and focus for tomorrow's match and next Saturday's match. I needed to make a decision and now it is closed."
Emery then confirmed that Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang will be Arsenal's new captain, before naming his other options as well.
"We have now Aubameyang, Hector (Bellerin), (Alexandre) Lacazette and (Mesut) Ozil. They are the four captains, and the first now is Aubameyang," he added.

        
          Read: The Highest-Paid Coaches In England Revealed
        
      
Emery himself has come under pressure after picking up just two points from the club's past three Premier League games.
The Gunners face Vitoria Guimaraes in the UEFA Europa League on Wednesday before travelling to in-form Leicester City on Saturday.
