
# Derek McInnes targeted by Stoke City as Aberdeen boss faces huge decision

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Keith Jackson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/keith-jackson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/derek-mcinnes-targeted-stoke-city-20827889)

Derek McInnes has emerged as one of the leading candidates to take over the vacant manager’s post at Stoke City.
Record Sport understands the name of the Aberdeen boss has been placed on a short list of targets by the relegation haunted Championship club after the sacking of Nathan Jones last week.
And sources in the Potteries say City are now ready to make an official approach to Pittodrie to ask chairman Stewart Milne for permission to hold discussions with the 48-year-old as they close in on the man they believe can keep the club in England’s second tier.
Reports yesterday linked Steve Clarke to the role but we believe the Scotland manager - who piped McInnes to the hotseat at Hampden earlier this year - has not made it onto the final list.
In another ironic twist, Northern Ireland boss Michael O’Neill is believed to be among the front-runners having turned down the SFA following the sacking of Gordon Strachan.
But the interest in McInnes was leaked out of the bet365 Stadium yesterday afternoon - and immediately placed Aberdeen’s hierarchy on a state of red alert.
The Dons would stand to pocket a small fortune if Stoke did chose to trigger a release clause for McInnes who put pen to paper on a lucrative new contract in the North East shortly after Clarke was confirmed as Alex McLeish’s replacement.
But Milne will be hoping Stoke lure O’Neill away from Northern Ireland rather than be forced to face up to the prospect of losing McInnes.
 
O’Neill admitted yesterday to being ‘flattered’ by the interest but refused to rule himself out of the running as he prepares for a daunting Euro 2020 qualification double header against Germany and Holland.
He said: “I’ve always said that when I do step away from international management it’s important the club has good ownership and good people to work for so that’s the priority in any thinking I’ll have.
“It’s always flattering. It’s better to be linked than not linked, let’s be honest. That applies to any job. It’s not a distraction for me. If and when a situation arises you look at that scenario at that point in time but at this minute my focus is on the two games that lie ahead.”
