
# SuperSport Up To Fourth, Despite Dropping Points

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:35:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/absa-premiership-report-supersport-united-v-golden-arrows-05-november-2019/666806)


        Absa Premiership
      
Result: SuperSport United 0-0 Golden Arrows
Date: 05 November 2019
Venue: Mbombela Stadium
SuperSport United moved up to fourth place, despite playing to a goalless draw with Golden Arrows in the Absa Premiership on Tuesday evening.
Luke Fleurs, Jamie Webber and Evans Rusike returned for SuperSport, as Neverdie Makhubela replaced Saturday’s match-winner Lindokuhle Mtshali for the visitors.
SuperSport started strongly with Bradley Grobler firing over the top from Sipho Mbule’s pass, while Webber forced Edmore Sibanda into the evening’s first save in the first ten minutes.
Rusike failed to hand SuperSport the lead eight minutes later when he shot wide from close-range after playing a one-two with Thamsanqa Gabuza from just inside the 18-yard area. Pressure from the home side upped on the half-hour mark, but Sibanda spared the blushes of Webber following a fast-paced counterattack.
On the other hand, Arrows carved their first opening two minutes later following a stray pass by Dean Furman but Knox Mutizwa fired wide from Divine Lunga’s pass.
On to the seocnd half, Siyabonga Nhlapo set-up Gabuza in the area on 52 minutes with a telling cross from the right, but the former Orlando Pirates striker headed way off target.
The visiting side ended strongly when persistence down the byline from Seth Parusnath played in Mutizwa, who shot straight at Ronwen Williams ten minutes from time.
Williams rescued SuperSport once again with eight minutes remaining when he tipped a low shot from Danny Venter onto the post, before he deneied Venter three minutes later with another fine save.
In the end, that piece of heroics from the Port Elizabeth-born shot-stopper saw the contest end all square.
