
# The 10-inch Amazon Echo Show Is Now $50 Off

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:01:26+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-amazon-echo-show-sale-black-friday-deal.html)

The second-generation Amazon Echo Show is on sale for $50 off, dropping down to just $179.
That's a pretty darn good price on the Echo Show, and the first price drop we've seen on this one since Prime Day back in July. So it's definitely a good time to jump on one.
This is still a 10.1-inch Echo Show, so you're getting a pretty large display. The bezels are still somewhat thick, which isn't a big deal, since it's meant to sit on a table or a counter in your home. It does also have a pretty large speaker on the back, that does sound really good when you're streaming music on it. Which is really nice.
Advertisement
There is a camera on the Echo Show, so don't place it somewhere that you don't want a camera. The kitchen is a good place to put it, actually.
That camera is used to see when there is someone in the room and keep the screen on (or turn it off when there's no one there, to conserve energy). It is also used to do video chats with your friends and family.
Alexa is included here, of course. Which is going to allow you to ask her about the weather, or how the traffic is, and so forth. You can also use Alexa to control your smart home products, which is really cool. And since it is a display, you can actually see what's going on with Alexa. So instead of just telling you its 40 degrees today, the Echo Show can show you the weather conditions and how warm it will get today, as well as the next few days. Which is really helpful.
Advertisement
You can pick up the second-generation Amazon Echo Show (10-inch) from Amazon by clicking here. This price is not going to last long though.

        Amazon Echo Show - Amazon - $179
      
