
# Physical media has its place, but when can I stream the movie on Disney+?

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:00:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/how-long-will-it-take-movies-arrive-disney-plus-after-blu-ray-release?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Best answer: Theatrical releases should arrive on Disney+ about four months after they hit Blu-ray and DVD.
The anticipation for Disney's streaming service, Disney+ launching November 12, is steadily building and for good reason. Until now, it took scouring the various streaming services to see what was available; even then, the pickings were relatively thin. The other factor for getting our Disney fix is through physical media like DVD and Blu-ray. While there isn't any official schedule out there from Disney as to when we can expect to see movies make to their streaming service after discs, we do have a good idea when that could be.
In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter the senior VP of content, Agnes Chu did give some insight as to the plans:
The current timeline from theatrical release to streaming works a bit like this: Disney will release a film into theaters, where its run is usually 90 days, shortly after that it shows up on digital for purchase, and then 2-3 weeks later we see it arrive for 4K, Blu-ray, and DVD. Finally, about four months after its release onto physical media, we should see the film arrive on streaming service, which moving forward will be Disney+ instead of places like Netflix.
Disney+ is being made available for a lot of devices and platforms when the service goes live. Access is coming to gaming consoles, smart TVs, mobile devices, and more. Here's a complete list of devices Disney has committed to at launch:
However, Amazon Fire tablets, Fire, Sticks, and Cubes won't have access to Disney+ on November 12. There have yet to announce as to when that might be resolved, but hopefully, it can be sorted out to allow another avenue for catching Disney+ shows.
