
# Bolton Wanderers at the centre of complaints over stewarding ahead of hosting Plymouth Argyle in FA Cup tie

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:19:09+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/bolton-wanderers-stewarding-plymouth-argyle-3498794)

Bolton Wanderers are at the centre of complaints over stewarding at the away end of their stadium ahead of hosting Plymouth Argyle in the FA Cup first round this weekend.
Fleetwood Town have said they have begun an investigation following a number of complaints from their supporters during and after their League One game at Bolton on Saturday.
Bolton have said they are aware of allegations in relation to the stewarding of the away end for that match.
They added that they treated allegations of this nature very seriously and would continue to co-operate with Fleetwood with their enquiries.
A Fleetwood statement said: “The club are concerned by accounts of travelling fans relating to the stewarding in the away end of the stadium on Saturday afternoon.
“Club officials have been in communication with Bolton over the past 48 hours and are in the process of providing them information and statements from supporters, as well as employees of the club.
“If anyone has any video footage or can provide a written account of anything of concern which they may have witnessed, would they please email this to the club’s chief executive Steve Curwood on steve.corwood@fleetwodtownfc.com.”
Bolton issued their own statement which read: “Bolton Wanderers Football Club is aware of allegations that have been made in relation to the stewarding of the away end during and after our Sky Bet League One game against Fleetwood Town at the University of Bolton Stadium.
“The club treats allegations of this nature very seriously and we are investigating all the reports we have received.
“We will continue to co-operate with Fleetwood Town Football Club with their enquiries.”
Tickets for Argyle’s FA Cup clash at the University of Bolton Stadium this weekend went on general sale on Monday morning.
The Pilgrims are expected to have a large travelling support for the first round tie.
Argyle have never played at the stadium before, with their last away game against Bolton taking place at their former ground, Burnden Park, in January 1993.
