
# ‘It wasn’t me!’ ANC councillor denies sex tape rumours

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:22:24+00:00**

Author: **Setumo Stone**

Original: [CityPress](https://city-press.news24.com/News/it-wasnt-me-anc-councillor-denies-sex-tape-rumours-20191101)

An ANC councillor in Limpopo’s Collins Chabane local municipality wants police to investigate a sex tape doing the rounds in political circles. He has dismissed the tape as a smear campaign to dislodge him ahead of an upcoming elective conference in the party’s Vhembe region.
“Clearly the person depicted in the video is not me, even a fool will concur,” said Miyelani Chauke, who is also the ANC chief whip in Collins Chabane sub-region, also referred to as one of the strongmen in local party politics in Malamulele.
“Contrary to what is reflected I have distinguishable and visible bodily scars due to medical procedures. Unfortunately, my political detractors, both in their nefarious and desperate attempts to smear me have not factored in this reality,” Chauke told City Press on Friday.
He said the “lousy attempt” to distract him from fulfilling his responsibilities as the chief whip and regional leader would not shake him.
He said he had opened a case of crime injuria and hoped that law enforcement agencies would get to the bottom of the matter.
Clearly the person depicted in the video is not me, even a fool will concurMiyelani Chauke
He added that he would no longer be taking media queries.
The sextape, which City Press has seen, shows a man and a woman having intercourse and the clip, seemingly recorded on a mobile phone, lasts for about 17 seconds.
The upcoming regional conferences of the ANC across the country are set to be highly contested given that they form part of the process to prepare for the upcoming national general council, where President Cyril Ramaphosa’s mid-term performance since taking over the ANC in 2017 would come under scrutiny.
Regional leaders form the core of coordinating branch discussions going to the general council, including the choice of branch delegates.
Branch meetings to prepare for the regional conference were under way and it the conference was likely to happen before the end of January next year, City Press heard.
According to pictures of a police document sent to City Press, Chauke opened a case at Malamulele police station on Thursday.
In an accompanying affidavit, Chauke said he first received the video on WhatsApp on Sunday from a prominent ANC youth league leader in Limpopo.
He said he was opening a case against the woman in the video, whose name is known to City Press, “because I believe there is a plot against my name”.
They have embarked on a desperate and destructive campaign to target all comrades who are loyal and support the provincial chairperson. They have realised that they do not have numbers going to the regional conference and they think this will deal with Chauke and collective through thisSenior ANC Limpopo Leader
A senior ANC Limpopo leader who spoke to City Press on condition of anonymity said it was “clear” that some of the party’s top leaders in the province had a hand in the allegations.
The person said Chauke was a supporter of Limpopo premier Stan Mathabatha, and those who wanted to topple Mathabatha were behind the “smear campaign”.
“They have embarked on a desperate and destructive campaign to target all comrades who are loyal and support the provincial chairperson. They have realised that they do not have numbers going to the regional conference and they think this will deal with Chauke and collective through this.”
The person said “Chauke is a very big headache for them and they are not succeeding”.
