
# Rapper T.I. Slammed for Accompanying Teen Daughter to the Gynecologist to Make Sure She’s a Virgin

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:57:14+00:00**

Author: **Warner Todd Huston**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/entertainment/2019/11/06/t-i-accompanies-teen-daughter-to-gynecologist-to-make-sure-shes-a-virgin/)

During an interview for the Ladies Like Us podcast with actress Nazanin Mandi and makeup artist Nadia Moham, the rapper was asked if he had ever talked about sex with his 18-year-old daughter, Deyjah Harris.
Perhaps to his daughter’s shock and embarrassment, T.I. noted that he has involved himself in an annual “hymen check.”
“Deyjah’s 18, just graduated high school now and she’s attending her first year of college, figuring it out for herself,” the Atlanta crooner told the hosts. “And yes, not only have we had the conversation, we have yearly trips to the gynecologist to check her hymen.”
T.I. also said he always keeps up on his daughter’s health and makes sure he is allowed access to any medical information at school and other official outlets.
The Grammy-winner, whose real name is Clifford Joseph Harris Jr., insisted that he has taken his daughter for the gyno appointment the day after her birthday every year for three years.
“So we’ll go and sit down and the doctor will come and talk and the doctor’s maintaining a high level of professionalism,” the “Whatever You Like” rapper said. “He’s like, ‘Well, you know sir, I have to, in order to share information’ — I’m like, ‘Deyjah, they want you to sign this… so we can share information. Is there anything you would not want me to know?’ ‘See doc? No problem.'”
T.I. went on an extended rant about how the doctors have told him that a hymen can be broken in ways other than sexual intercourse. But the rapper said he has other ideas about that where his daughter is concerned.
“So then they say, ‘I just want you to know there are other ways besides sex that the hymen can be broken. Like bike riding, athletics, horseback riding and just other forms of athletic physical activity,” T.I. told the hosts. “So I said, ‘Look doc, she don’t ride no horses, she don’t ride no bikes, she don’t play no sports. Just check the hymen, please. And give me back my results expeditiously.”
But T.I. was pleased to report, “As of [Deyjah’s] 18th birthday, her hymen is still intact.”
Many women, though, took to social media to blast the rapper for his routine and intrusive “virgin testing.”
