
# Rio Ferdinand catalogues Aaron Wan-Bissaka's mistakes for Josh King goal vs Man Utd

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:20:54+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/rio-ferdinand-catalogues-aaron-wan-20796188)

Rio Ferdinand has explained the mistakes Aaron Wan-Bissaka made when Joshua King scored for Bournemouth against Manchester United .
Former United academy graduate King netted the only goal at the Vitality Stadium and condemn the Red Devils to their fourth Premier League defeat of the season.
Cherries striker King drifted off Victor Lindelof before chesting Adam Smith's clip into the box. He then brilliantly flicked the ball over Wan-Bissaka before smashing the ball past David de Gea.
Right-back Wan-Bissaka took the brunt of the blame for the goal from United legend Ferdinand in the BT Sport studio.
“He has got to wait and be patient," Ferdinand explained. "You have got to be patient.
“In that area, you have almost got to slow the situation down in your own mind. You haven’t got to rush into anything.
“The forward has got his back to goal. What move is he going to make? Once he makes a move, you have to react and try to shut down that shot.
“What he did was, he went to have a nibble around one side, that made Josh King’s mind up, he then rolled him, held him off, and put it in with a wonderful finish in the end.”
Former Chelsea midfielder Joe Cole added: “He has a nibble, Josh King feels him and he just rolls him. It is a great finish.
“But for me, Wan-Bissaka has got to be standing his ground there and be patient in the box. He just has a nibble and it is too easy, but it is a great finish from King.”
Meanwhile Ole Gunnar Solskjaer admitted he made a team selection error on the south coast.
"Maybe I should have started a couple of others, who knows," Solskjaer said. "I felt we started the game well.
"If you want to be challenging for top four, you need to win games like this."
