
# Denied food, man misbehaves

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/denied-food-man-misbehaves/articleshow/71859847.cms)

The Nandini Layout Police have arrested a man for misbehaving with a woman while he was drunk. Boregowda, a resident of Nandini Layout, created ruckus inside a hotel while they were shutting it asking them to serve food. He misbehaved with the owner and pulled her around. He then approached the police and accused the woman and the staff of assaulting him. The police has booked him for outraging woman’s modesty. The police said that he was running a small shop which he closed a few months ago and is currently unemployed. The complainant, Bindu (named changed), runs the Bhagyavathi Khanavali Hotel in Nandini Layout. Bindu said that on Tuesday night she closed the hotel a little early and was cleaning it. At around 10.30 pm Boregowda came to her hotel and asked her to serve food. When she refused, he started abusing her. She added that he went out and called the police stating that they attacked him for asking food. ********** Investors duped, MD arrestedThe Basaveshwaranagar Police on Friday remanded Kanva Group’s Managing Director in judicial custody after investors filed a complaint against the group for allegedly not giving them interest for the past three months and duping them of lakhs of rupees. Kanva Souhardha Co operative Credit Ltd Managing Director, N Nanjundaiah was summoned by the police on Friday morning for questioning in connection with the case. The company allegedly stopped paying principal amount and the interest to the investors overthe past three months. Several investors gathered at the headquarters on Thursday and carried out a protest. They were reportedly asked to return next month. The staff allegedly closed the office by afternoon following which the investors filed a complaint with the police. So far, three people have filed a complaint against Nanjundaiah stating that he had refused to return their investments.
