
# The Alexa-Enabled Bose Home Speaker 300 Is $60 Off Today

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:52:23+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-bose-home-speaker-300-alexa-sale-deal-amazon.html)

Amazon is discounting the Bose Home Speaker 300 today, putting it on sale for just $199. That's $60 off of its regular price.
This is actually a big deal, seeing as Bose products are rarely ever on sale. Usually only for Black Friday and perhaps another random time during the year. So saving $60 on the Bose Home Speaker 300 is a big deal.
The Bose Home Speaker 300 is a really good smart speaker to pick up. It has the usual sound that you would expect from a Bose speaker. Some pretty deep bass, as well as crisp mids and highs, that aren't overpowered by the bass. This is also a 360-degree speaker, so you won't need to worry about it not filling the entire room with sound.
Advertisement
This is not a portable speaker, so it is going to need to stay plugged in at all times, for it to work. That's the case with most smart speakers though, since the always-listening feature does take up a fair bit of power.
Speaking of the "smart" part of this speaker. It does have Amazon Alexa. Now, unfortunately, unlike the Sonos One, Beam and a few others, this cannot switch from Alexa to Google Assistant. So you're stuck with using just Amazon Alexa. Which is fine, especially since Alexa is really continuing to get better each and everyday.
The Bose Home Speaker 300 does come in black and silver. The black is mostly matte, though the silver does look pretty cool with the upper-part of the speaker being white. If you want to put it in a lighter colored room (like a kitchen) the silver might be the better bet.
Advertisement
You can pick up the Bose Home Speaker 300 from Amazon by clicking here. This price isn't going to last long though so you're going to want to grab this one before it is gone.

        Bose Home Speaker 300 - Amazon - $199
      
