
# What is it like to be a Brexit Party MEP in the heart of the EU?

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:48:17+00:00**

Author: **Euronews **

Original: [euronews](https://www.euronews.com/2019/11/02/can-t-live-with-it-can-t-live-without-it-will-brexit-sink-the-brexit-party)

Stood in line at the taxi stand in Strasbourg in late October, Brexit Party MEP Ben Habib spotted a fellow British EU parliamentarian and suggested they share a car to the European Parliament building. He says his offer was firmly — and not altogether politely — rebuffed.
“She said: ‘I’m not sharing a taxi with you’, Habib said, “It was staggering.”
Given their vocal opposition to the European project, perhaps it is not so staggering that Brexit Party MEPs get a frosty reception in the dual capitals of European power.
From the seats at the back of the chamber — where they sit alongside Greece’s Golden Dawn, France’s National Rally and Italy’s La Liga — the Brexit Party’s 29 MEPs shout and jeer and turn their backs on the European anthem.

        
          Read more: Brexit Party MEPs turn their backs as EU anthem is played.
        
      
Their leader, Nigel Farage, refers to the European parliament as a “thugocracy” and once told former EU president Herman van Rompuy that he had the charisma of a damp towel.
“It isn’t how we operate,” Irina Von Wiese, a Liberal Democrat MEP, told Euronews. “We’re a little bit more civilised than in Westminster.”
Von Wiese has shared taxis from the train station with Brexit Party MEPs, and says that there are some with which it is possible to "have a cordial chat". That said, she has never seen any Brexit Party MEPs in committees, where the “real work” of parliament gets done.
“They show up together, they leave together — like a regiment,” she said.
At the head of that regiment, as always, is Farage, the leader of the Brexit Party and its most recognisable figure by a county mile. Farage has served as an MEP since 1999, representing UKIP until his resignation from the party in December 2018.
Farage is also the owner of the party, which is unique in being registered as a private company, with Farage and Richard Tice, another Brexit Party MEP, listed as directors in its filing at UK Companies House. Farage also has the authority to appoint or remove board members.
It is in this organisational structure that the Brexit Party differs from UKIP, Farage’s previous party, which descended into factional infighting and ultimately farce after the 2016 referendum.
It then appointed Tommy Robinson — a far-right anti-Muslim activist whose real name is Stephen Yaxley-Lennon — as an advisor to UKIP leader Gerard Batten.
“UKIP was — at least to some extent — internally democratic: members had rights and representation, which was why Farage always had a love/hate relationship with it,” said Tim Bale, professor of politics at the Queen Mary University of London.
“The Brexit Party has no members, only supporters. It's a company as much as a party - and that's how Farage likes it.”
Brexit Party claims to have 115,000 signed-up supporters — each paying £25 for the privilege — and undoubtedly has significant support amongst UK voters. In July, the party swept the board at Britain’s elections for the European parliament, winning 29 seats.
On November 1, days after the House of Commons agreed that an election would be held on December 12, Farage, Tice and Ann Widdecombe, the former Conservative MP that now serves as a Brexit Party MEP, launched its campaign at an event in central London.
Farage repeated his offer to Boris Johnson for an electoral pact with the Conservatives, which was quickly dismissed by the party. Asked how many seats the Brexit Party planned to contest, he said that there were 150 that the Conservatives “had never won” and in which his party could do better. Nominations for next month’s elections end on November 14.
But despite polling more than 13% nationally, because of the first-past-the-post system of government in the UK, which favours Britain’s two main parties, the Brexit Party would be unlikely to secure many — if any — seats in parliament.
Habib, a former Conservative donor who has been a Tory voter since 1983, told Euronews prior to the UK parliament voting in favour of a December 12 election that the Brexit Party would field candidates throughout the UK in a general election.
“We will still stand against the Tories because we don’t think [the deal] is any good, and we want to be certain that the free trade agreement doesn’t take us back into the EU by the backdoor,” he says. “We need to keep them honest.”
