
# Capgemini lays off 500 in India as business slows

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:25:22+00:00**

Author: **Shilpa Phadnis**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/capgemini-lays-off-500-in-india-as-business-slows/articleshow/71916655.cms)

BENGALURU: Capgemini has laid off nearly 500 employees in India following some of its customers scaling back on projects and some other accounts not ramping up as fast as the company expected.
The French IT services firm allows employees to be on the bench for about 90 days by their business units and then moves them to a corporate pool to find billable projects, sources told TOI. The laid off employees were those who went through this process and could not find billable projects.
India, with 1.08 lakh employees, accounts for more than half of Capgemini’s global strength, and is a core part of the company.
Asked about the layoffs, the company said: “As an IT services company, our people are at the heart of our business and we are permanently rolling out widespread reskilling programmes to build new capabilities that meet clients’ evolving digital transformation needs. The net headcount in India has continued to grow well with strong hiring year-on-year and our perspectives for 2020 look good too. As with any large company in our industry, there is a constant flow of departures, reskilling, reassignments and arrivals. Globally we also continue to increase – at our Q3 results (October 24) our overall headcount was up 5.1% year on year.”
Last month, Capgemini said given the softer economic environment, it has reset the growth target for 2019 at around 5.5% in constant currency, a rate which was the lower end of the range announced in February.
Capgemini counts McDonald’s, Zurich Insurance Group, MAN and EDF as some of its key customers. The company gets 27% of its revenue from financial services and it works with nine of the world’s 15 largest banks.
