
# X Factor fans rage as Martin Bashir is saved again and brand show a 'f***ing joke'

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:27:37+00:00**

Author: **Rose Hill, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rose-hill/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/x-factor-fans-rage-martin-20799665)

X Factor fans were left utterly furious as Martin Bashir was saved a second time by Simon Cowell - despite forgetting his lyrics to his song last night.
The journalist, 56, landed in the bottom three of the public vote with former Coronation Street star Victoria Ekanoye and ex-EastEnders actor Jonny Labey.
Victoria was immediately eliminated after receiving the fewest votes, meaning that it was up to judges Simon, Nicole Scherzinger and Louis Walsh to decide Martin and Jonny's fate.
Nicole and Louis decided to save their respective acts, however Simon refused to choose and left it to the public vote.
Host Dermot O'Leary revealed that Jonny would be leaving the competition, despite winning a safe seat last week.
The judges were left stunned, as were the contestants themselves.Martin quipped: "There's some kind of psychotic breakdown in the country at the moment!"
However viewers flocked to Twitter in anger, branding the show a "f***ing joke".
However viewers were furious and flocked to Twitter in anger.
One calmly tweeted: "WHY DO I BOTHER WATCHING THIS SHOW EVERY YEAR FOR THIS S*** #XFactorCelebrity."
While another commented: "WHAT THE F***! WHY ARE THEY SO OBSESSED WITH KEEPING MARTIN?!? #XFactorCelebrity #XFactor."
A third remarked: "Simon what are you playing at?! This is officially a farce, a f***ing joke. Even Martin knows he's shit and wondering how he keeps getting second chances. First Olivia now Jonny, what the actual fuck is going on #XFactor #XFactorCelebrity."
Another wrote: "Seriously though first Olivia now Jonny... this is why nobody takes X Factor seriously lol #XFactorCelebrity."
One commented: "What the actual how did Martin get more votes than Jonny and Victoria #XFactorCelebrity."
"X FACTOR has just become the biggest joke. Yet again wrong act sent home. Simon I think you need to see a doctor #XFactorCelebrity," another fumed.
Earlier in the programme, Martin was close to tears in the middle of his performance to Lionel Richie's Easy.
Less than halfway through the song, he shocked everyone by announcing: "I've forgotten my words."
He tried to carry on but later added: "I do apologise."
Backstage, fellow star Victoria held her hands to her chest while Jenny looked on in horror.
Afterwards, Simon Cowell asked what had happened and Martin claimed that a last minute song change was to blame for his lapse in memory.
"I'm not trying to make excuses but my song had to change," he said. "I've been anxious all evening and it went out of my mind."

        *The X Factor returns next Saturday on ITV
      
