
# Is ‘Overwatch 2’ A Stroke Of Genius For Blizzard Or An Enormous Risk?

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/03/is-overwatch-2-a-stroke-of-genius-for-blizzard-or-an-enormous-risk/)

When there were starting to be rumors about “Overwatch 2” a few months back, I was taking them with a grain of salt. It may have been referred to as that, but when it was debuted, surely it would just be some expansion to the game, Overwatch: Chapter 2 or something. Not a fully new title.Well…
Blizzard is indeed pitching Overwatch 2 as a full sequel, but one that is unlike pretty much any other numbered installment out there in other series. Overwatch 2 arrives with a campaign storyline and replayable, farmable PvE missions with entirely separate character skill trees and unlocks. But it also brings new additions to PvP as well, maps, modes, and heroes.
Blizzard is splitting the difference. Overwatch has been a PvP game that has relied on free content additions for its entire lifespan. They very well couldn’t just box everyone playing Overwatch 1 out of the new content, as that would irreparably split the playerbase and act as a “you must pay X dollars to keep playing this game” barrier that they never wanted to put in place on the PvP side.
As such, Overwatch 1 players will have full access to literally everything PvP related in Overwatch 2. All the heroes, maps and modes will be shared across both games. And that also goes for things like skin purchases, as all the grinding and money spent has created vast collections for players they certainly wouldn’t want to lose by “switching” to the sequel.
It’s a unique situation. I can’t think of any other PvP-based game with a full sequel that straight up let players of the last game experience it for free, or carry over their progress and cosmetics. It’s sort of an evolution of the games as service concept, where sequels no longer need to be hard cuts, but you can blur the lines between old and new by merging communities and carrying progress forward.
All good, right?
Well, there’s the matter of Blizzard…actually wanting to sell copies of the sequel. Blizzard has not produced a new game in three years now, and despite the debut of other titles like Diablo 4 at BlizzCon, that game isn’t coming for several more years at least. In short, Blizzard needs to release a product that people will actually pay money for up front, not just more revenue streams like OW skins or Hearthstone cards. Enter Overwatch 2, which will be sold as a full game, though whether it costs $30 or $40 or $60 isn’t clear yet. But it will cost something.
The issue here is that Overwatch has cultivated itself as a PvP game from the start, and has built up a robust competitive and esports community over the last few years. Now, they’re telling the current slate of PvP players they don’t need Overwatch 2 at all to experience its new PvP additions. So that leaves a group of potential buyers that must be explicitly interesting in Overwatch’s take on PvE content, the direct opposite of what the game has leaned on so far.
Could this work? Sure. I’m not blind, I understand that there has been a lot of requests from fans for more Overwatch PvE content outside of special events, and that people like the world and lore and characters a great deal, more so than many other non-PvP titles, because Blizzard really has created a vibrant world here. So yes, there is a potential market for an Overwatch PvE-focused game, which is what OW2 seems to be.
And yet, even though I count myself among those who wanted more Overwatch PvE content, I do wonder if what’s being produced is actually what I was hoping for. In my dream world, I am picturing a Destiny-scale Overwatch shooter with sprawling worlds and loot and campaign missions and the whole package. What Overwatch 2 seems to be is premade co-op multiplayer missions with story beats and occasional cutscenes, strung together to form a narrative. Then you can farm missions later to upgrade your heroes. But all of it is contained within this presumably pretty linear structure. That…doesn’t quite sound like what I was looking for.
That said, I’ll play it. And that means I’ll buy it. And I know I will not be alone. The more I reflect on all this, the more it feels like this was sort of Blizzard’s only way forward. They could not introduce a sequel that split the active PvP playerbase. But they couldn’t just give away a huge slate of PvE content for free like they’ve given away everything else. Hence, Overwatch 2.
I do think the availability of its PvP aspects will depress sales a bit, and I do wonder if OW2 will produce enough content for players to feel like it’s worth its asking price. Those are questions for launch or beta or alpha I suppose, though we have no indication on when they may happen. My guess is early next year, but Blizzard isn’t saying yet. Stay tuned.
