
# Get a 75-inch 4K TCL Roku TV with HDR10 for $700 on Amazon and Best Buy — $200 off (Updated)

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:45:17+00:00**

Author: **Manuel Vonau**

Original: [Android Police](https://www.androidpolice.com/2019/11/07/75-inch-4k-tcl-roku-tv-hdr-10-700-200-off/)


        Update 1: 2019/11/07 6:46am PSTNow live on Amazon, too
      
TCL has become popular by offering great TVs at affordable prices, and as the company's 8K products are steering towards the mainstream, its 4K offerings are getting ever cheaper. The same is true for this year's 75-inch 4K Roku TV, which you can get for $700 at Best Buy right now. That's $200 less than recent street prices.
The TV features 3 HDMI inputs and 1 USB port, though you might find yourself leaving most of them unused thanks to Roku's excellent app selection; the OS can replace quite a few external boxes. The built-in dual-band 802.11ac Wi-Fi antenna should make content fly on the screen, but of course, the speed of your internet connection always remains the bottleneck. The display also features HDR10.
If this television set in particular is too big for you, but you like the idea of an integrated Roku TV, you can just wait around for another one of those TCL deals. They've become a monthly occurence lately.

        Buy: 
        Best Buy
      

          Update 1: 2019/11/07 6:46am PST by Manuel Vonau
        

          Now live on Amazon, too
        
The deal is still available at Best Buy, but now Amazon also offers the TV for $700, if you prefer shopping there.
If the 75-inch version is too large for you, you can also get the 50-inch (Amazon, Best Buy) and 55-inch (Amazon, Best Buy) models for $20 off each, making them cost $250 and $280 respectively.

          Buy: 
          Amazon
        
End of Update
