
# Real Madrid 'turn to Jadon Sancho' after Man City response to Raheem Sterling transfer enquiry

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:57:35+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/real-madrid-turn-jadon-sancho-20814746)

Real Madrid will reportedly turn to Jadon Sancho amid Manchester City’s refusal to sell Raheem Sterling.
Bernabeu bigwigs considered putting together a package worth £70m plus Gareth Bale for Sterling but City have no plans to lose the England star.
As a result, they will reignite their interest in his international colleague.
Real wanted to sign Sancho from Manchester City in 2017 but were beaten to the punch by Borussia Dortmund.
The 19-year-old winger has since emerged as one of European football’s hottest prospects after wowing in the Bundesliga.
According to the Daily Mail, they have begun laying the groundwork for a deal in next summer’s transfer window.
Dortmund are resigned to losing Sancho at the end of the season but know they can spark an auction for his signature.
Manchester United are big fans of Sancho but the prospect of missing out on Champions League football will likely count against them.
Paris Saint-Germain, who could be tasked with replacing Neymar, are also interested.
Sancho is likely to go for a fee in excess of £100m, and City inserted an option to match any offer Dortmund receive as part of the deal that saw him move to Germany two years ago.
If Real are successful, Sancho would most likely replace Gareth Bale, who is still available despite returning to Zinedine Zidane’s first-team plans.
The Welshman has repeatedly been linked with a move back to the Premier League but he will not be moving to City as part of a swap involving Sterling.
They have no intention of selling the forward while Bale is not wanted.
Sterling is settled at the Etihad Stadium but has made it clear he is interested in playing abroad at some point in his career.
He told GQ: "Looking at it now it's like, Manchester, I love it. I love it here. This is one of the best clubs in the world and I'm here for the long haul.
"But you just don't know what happens in the future. I'm still young and, like I say, I am loving every minute.
"Ever since I was a kid, 100 per cent it's always been a dream of mine to play abroad somewhere. It would be nice one day to finish training and go home and sit in your garden and eat some dinner.
"I would need to see where it’s minimum 17C or 18C constantly."
