
# LIVE ISL 2019-20 | NorthEast United FC vs FC Goa - Match 13

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:44:16+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/01/live-isl-2019-20-north-east-united-fc-vs-fc-goa-match-13?utm_medium=rss)


        FC Goa are travelling to Guwahati to face NorthEast United at the Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium on Friday. Both teams are unbeaten with four points each in two games and will be playing for the win, although the Gaurs have more injury concerns while NorthEast will deploy a fit squad.
      
The Highlanders are coming after a hard-fought draw against champions Bengaluru FC away from home and a win against ISL new entrants Odisha FC. Meanwhile, the Gaurs are marching into Guwahati with the same four points as the Highlanders. The in-from Goan side has thrashed Chennaiyin FC in their first match and drew with Bengaluru, but they have injuries to their key foreign players. It will be a match of equal powers and NorthEast United have a slight advantage with its home support and an injury-less side.
NEUFC’s striker Asamoah Gyan is one of the best players in this ISL. He has scored against Odisha FC and has struck the woodwork in the previous game. The Ghanian all-time top scorer is supported by Indian midfielder Redeem Thang, who scored a quick goal against Odisha.
Foreigners Panagiotis Triadis is also a crucial player for NorthEast at the midfield and he has been ably supported by captain Jose Leudo, who will be crucial in marking Coro. 
For the Gaurs, undoubtedly, Coro will be the man to lead the attacks. The all-time ISL top scorer will be supported by Indians Len Doungel and Jackichand Singh at the wings. Goalkeeper Muhammed Nawaz is also in good form for the Goan side. Foreign defenders Mourtada Fall and Carlos Pena will coordinate the defensive duties.
Robert Jarni has a fit squad to choose from, a luxury other ISL teams hardly have.  However, Uruguayan midfielder Federico Gallego is injured and ruled out, which has been a huge loss.
On the other side, Goa has injuries to their key foreign players  Edu Bedia and Hugo Boumous is still doubtful for the match, although Spanish coach Lobera didn’t seem worried.
Both teams faced 10 times and FC Goa have won more with 4 wins. NorthEast United could only manage two wins and the rest four went to draw.
NorthEast United FC: W D L W D
FC Goa: D W L L W
NorthEast United FC: Subhasis Roy Chowdhury, Reagan Singh, Wayne Vaz, Kai Heerings, Rakesh Pradhan, Jose Leudo, Milan Singh, Redeem Tlang, Panagiotis Triadis, Martin Chaves, Asamoah Gyan. 
FC Goa: Muhammed Nawaz, Seriton Fernandes, Mourtada Fall, Carlos Pena, Mandar Rao Desai, Lenny Rodrigues, Ahmed Jahouh, Seminlen Doungel, Ferran Corominas, Brandon Fernandes, Manvir Singh 

        Robert Jarni
      
The former Croatian World Cupper has a vast experience as a defender in Europe and has played with current Indian national team coach Igor Stimac. The former Real Madrid defender has coached various clubs in the past decade and his last assignment was with the Croatian under 19 team before coming to India. In his first ISL game, his team hold defending champions Bengaluru FC. 

        Sergio Lobera
      
The Spanish coach who is India for the third year has built a successful side. Lobera has a vast experience in Spain with managing La Liga giants Barcelona youth side. The Spanish gaffer just lost to Bengaluru FC in the last year ISL final. However, the Spaniard won the Super Cup before the season. The Goan fans expect nothing less than the ISL title this year.

        
          CLICK HERE FOR LIVE ACTION
        
      
