
# Trump’s move from New York to Florida for tax purposes could be ‘doomed’ and why home prices keep going up

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:33:00+00:00**

Author: **Jacob Passy**

Original: [MarketWatch](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/trumps-move-from-new-york-to-florida-for-tax-purposes-could-be-doomed-and-why-home-prices-keep-going-up-2019-11-01?amp%3Bsiteid=rss&amp%3Brss=1)

Happy November, MarketWatchers! Don’t miss these top stories:
‘Simply declaring yourself a resident doesn’t make it so.’
Competition from the asset management platforms helps make investors aware of the fees they’re paying for financial services, allowing them to demand lower ones.
Boy Scout fees will increase more than 80% in January — the cost is pretty modest compared to other after-school activities.
Mortgage lenders must find innovative, affordable ways to help buyers, writes Sanjiv Das.
The latest offering from a renegade winemaker aims for accessibility.
The No. 1 reason billionaires decide to move.
Apple has a new Jennifer Aniston show, Netflix has ‘Seinfeld’ and Disney has ‘Star Wars.’
Should you try #NoSpendNovember to curb holiday spending?
‘This not a partisan issue. This is what’s right for America.’
It’s the first time since April that mortgage rates have increased for three straight weeks.
Reports of the demise of the U.S. manufacturing have been exaggerated, and that may be one reason why fears of an economy-wide recession got out of hand earlier this year.
There are several possible paths forward, each with very different implications for markets, asset classes, and world economies, according to Capital Economics.
All stock market benchmarks are not created equal, writes Mark Hulbert.
Plenty of state spending goes to these industries, even if the federal government doesn’t increase its contribution.
