
# Celtic’s Europa League rivals Cluj receive big bonus BEFORE a ball has been kicked

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:45:26+00:00**

Author: **Mark Walker**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/celtics-europa-league-rivals-cluj-20823274)

Celtic's Europa League rivals Cluj have been handed a timely cash boost ahead of their group match against Rennes on Thursday night.
The Romanian side have been hit with financial problems off the field as players and staff were promised a bonus from their European exploits this season, including their elimination of Celtic in the Champions League.
The payment was delayed but Dan Petrescu's side will belatedly receive a £30,000 bonus as a cash injection from UEFA will arrive before kick-off against the French side.
And that means that every player in the squad that has played in all of their 11 European games this season will receive £30,000 in payments and bonuses.
Petrescu had earlier warned: "In every business in the world, if you promise wages and bonuses, then you have to pay what you are due.
"It's not a good situation for the club to be in."
Meanwhile, Rennes will be boosted by the return of their veteran keeper Romain Salin for the clash...which will mean they won't have to field 16-year-old keeper Pepe Bonet.
 
Rennes had keeper Edouard Mendy sent off against Cluj last month and he is suspended for the clash and back-up veteran Salin was injured, meaning they had to use youngster Bonet as a sub against the Romanians.
But Salin has recovered and the 35-year-old will be in goals at Cluj.
