
# Tips To Not Fall Sick This Winter Season, According To Doctors’ Advice

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Yimin Huang**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407226/Tips-To-Not-Fall-Sick-This-Winter-Season-According-To-Doctors-Advice/)

As the year draws to a close, it is important to take measures to prevent coming down with a flu during the winter season. This is especially since one would like to enjoy the holiday season in peace. Here are some tips from doctors to help you reduce the risk of falling sick.
This may seem like common advice, but true enough, sleep is important for the immune system to be strong. Dr. Jaclyn Tolentino, a physician at Parsley Health Los Angeles, states that the “best way” to avoid becoming ill is to not “skip out” on regular sleep. One way to get better sleep includes wearing blue light blocking glasses at night to limit exposure to the light from phone and computer screens. The blue light has been proven to prevent your body from producing melatonin, a hormone needed to aid sleep, per CNET. Besides that, getting more comfortable pillows and mattress, and adjusting to a more optimal temperature in your room can also be helpful.
Advertisement Advertisement As the year ends, work can get especially hectic due to accumulated deadlines, holiday shopping and other commitments. Stress can affect your physical health, as Tolentino reminds people the importance of taking care of oneself. Ways to decrease stress include trying out meditation apps and using weighted blankets. Exercising more and using a sauna are also known to help produce more sweat and help with blood circulation, according to Dr. Alejandro Junger.
Alcohol is common in celebrations during the holiday season. However, drinking too much can bring adverse effects to the immune system. Tolentino explained that alcohol gets “detoxified in the liver” and increased consumption can lead to high liver detoxification. As a result, the immune system can be weakened. Drinking too much can also disrupt the natural circadian rhythm, also known as our biological clock. Hence, regulating the amount of alcohol can also help in better sleep to keep sickness at bay. For the full list of tips, you can read the CNET article here. [via CNET, cover image via Shutterstock]
