
# They're the pants that I want: buyer pays $405,700 for Olivia Newton-John’s Grease outfit at auction

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:03:54+00:00**

Author: **Reuters**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/nov/03/theyre-the-pants-that-i-want-buyer-pays-405700-for-olivia-newton-johns-grease-outfit)


        Actor’s famous black trousers and leather jacket sold at auction along with other memorabilia, raising $2.4m
      
Olivia Newton-John’s tight black trousers and leather jacket from the movie Grease have sold for $405,700 at a Beverly Hills auction, more than double the expected price.
The outfit that marked the transition of Newton-John’s character in the 1978 musical from demure high schooler to sexy Sandy was among 500 items for sale at Julien’s Auctions to help raise money for the performer’s cancer treatment centre in Australia.
The famous pants worn by Newton-John for the You’re the One That I Want duet with John Travolta were so tight that she had to be sewn into them to film the scene, and were sold with a broken zipper. The buyers for the pants and jacket were not revealed.
The auction raised $2.4m in total, with many items related to the movie going for many times over estimates, Julien’s said.
A Grease poster signed by Newton-John, Travolta and other cast members sold for $64,000, compared to an estimate of $1,000. The pink lace gown the actor wore to the movie premiere in Los Angeles went for $18,750. A custom Pink Ladies jacket given to her by the cast and crew fetched $50,000, 25 times its original estimate.
The British-born, Australian-raised singer, who is now 71, said earlier this year that she had breast cancer for a third time since first being diagnosed in 1992.
After her first bout with cancer, she helped set up the Olivia Newton-John Cancer and Wellness Centre in Melbourne, which aims to support the mind as well as the body.
All of the proceeds from the Grease jacket and pants will benefit the center, as well as a portion of all the other items sold on Saturday.
