
# Woman with 40HH boobs forced to wear XXXL mens clothes and won't let anyone see her naked

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:20:43+00:00**

Author: **Zoe Forsey, https://www.facebook.com/zoeforseymirror/, Harriet Whitehead**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/women-40hh-boobs-forced-wear-20808879)

When Helen Christie was growing up she was often mocked for her "pancake" chest, but when she turned 16 her boobs started to grow at a rapid rate.
She went to a size D but they didn't stop, and all of a sudden the bullies started teasing her for her large chest instead.
She hated the attention that came with having big boobs and after years of medical problems, pain and trouble sleeping she's desperate to have them reduced.
She's now a size 40HH and has to wear size 20 tops or a man's XXXL, while her bottom half is only a size 16.
Pharmaceutical assistant Helen, 26, "I was around 16 when I suddenly grew to a C or D cup and people started commenting, saying things like, ‘she’s grown.'
"As my breasts grew, they would call them ‘Helen’s melons.’ People would comment on my ‘jugs’ and shout ‘nice t*ts’ in the street.
 
"From the age of 16 I got cat calls and it made me feel so self-conscious. It was really creepy getting that kind of attention from men, who were often a lot older than me.
"I just hated the attention and hated feeling like I’d been put on the spot."
"I don’t wear low cut tops anymore, because my breasts fall out of them, so I stick to baggy T-shirts which make me look even bigger. she said.
"I think I overcompensate by wearing a lot of eyeliner to try and make people look at my face rather than my chest."
Helen, who lives in Brighton, doesn't feel comfortable showing her body to anyone, not even her girlfriend of two years Verity Oxford, 37.
"I struggle with social anxiety and am never comfortable taking my clothes off, not even in front of my partner.
"I feel as though I’ve been cursed with being so heavily endowed. Whereas some women wish they could trade places and have big boobs, I would give anything to have no boobs at all.
 
“I can’t let them hang freely because they hurt, which has always been a problem when I’m trying to be intimate with a partner.
“My confidence is so low that I never take my top off, I’ve never felt like I can get fully undressed in front of someone.
“I’ve been with my girlfriend for two years now and she understands what I’m going through. All she wants is for me to be out of this kind of pain.”
Having such an ample bosom also means Helen suffers with insomnia, as she struggles to find a comfortable position to sleep in.
She explained: “I always struggle to fall asleep and have to adjust my breasts into a position so that I’m breathing clearly and don’t feel like I’m up to my neck in excess breast tissue.
“I usually lie on my side with my arm supporting one breast and my other arm in between them to support the other.
“If I lie on my back I can’t breathe properly.
 
“I get a really sore rash underneath my breasts and around my armpit, too, because it gets so sweaty in the crevices.
“I have a curvature and a hump on the back of my neck from them pulling forwards and my head looks like it’s tilted. My posture is really bad.
“There’s a constant dull ache in my back and the back of my neck and I get shooting pains up my arm, because of the position I sleep in.
“My shoulders have indents in them from where the bra straps dig in.”
Helen also finds it difficult to buy bras big enough for her bust and when she does find them, they tend to be very expensive.
“I try to wear compression bras, in a bid to reduce my size but it’s a real struggle to find something that is within my budget. I can find bras for about £20, but I have to change them every couple of months, because the straps snap, as my breasts are so heavy,” she said.
“I can’t go jogging or running because there are no sports bras that will stop them from jiggling up and down.
“If I lose weight they just start to sag and there is a lot of excess skin."
When she visited a GP a year ago, feeling at an all-time low, she was examined and prescribed anti-depressants.
“It took a lot of courage for me to go to the doctor. He examined my back and I explained about how it had affected my mental health and made me feel depressed," she said.
"I explained that I had such low confidence and thought there was a link between my depression and my breasts.
“I asked to be put in touch with a specialist but nothing happened. The whole experience put me off. I felt like they didn’t understand and that there was no hope of me getting a reduction on the NHS."
Feeling dejected, Helen began searching for a private alternative.
She said: "The cheapest place I could find to have the operation was in Prague for £3,000. I’ve heard it can cost up to £12,000 to have it done privately in the UK, which I just can’t afford.”
According to its website, the availability of breast reduction surgery on the NHS varies, depending on the eligibility criteria decided by the local clinical commissioning group (CCG).
Some CCGs do not fund breast reduction surgery at all. Others will fund it selectively if someone fulfils certain criteria, such as experiencing backache, shoulder or neck pain, skin irritation, rashes and skin infections under the breasts, grooves on the shoulders from bra straps, psychological distress, such as low self-esteem or depression and an inability to exercise or play sport.
If a GP thinks someone is eligible they can refer them to a breast or plastic surgeon for an assessment.
Helen added: “I do wonder if I was a man and had two gigantic tumours attached to my chest constricting my breathing whether I’d be eligible for surgery.
“Surgery would change everything for me. I would just be free. I would be able to live a normal life. To be able to stretch my arms back without the weight of my breasts holding me back would mean so much.
“You read about people who are able to have breast enhancement on the NHS to help boost their confidence, but it’s really disheartening that it’s so seldom available for people who need them reduced in size.
“I do think that people might look at the fact I’m crowdfunding and think there are more worthy causes out there but I just don’t know where else to turn.”
To donate to Helen's fundraising click here.
