
# North Carolina double-murder suspect, 13, escapes after court appearance, sparking massive search

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:36:16+00:00**

Author: **Travis Fedschun**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/us/north-carolina-murder-suspect-escape-robeson-county-teenage?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+foxnews%2Fnational+%28Internal+-+US+Latest+-+Text%29)

North Carolina authorities forged ahead Wednesday with a massive statewide manhunt for a 13-year-old accused of a double murder -- with the multipronged operation employing boots on the ground and helicopters in the air -- to find the teen, who gave officials the slip after a Tuesday court appearance.
The North Carolina Department of Public Safety said in a news release that the escaped teen, identified only as Jericho W., escaped around 12:10 p.m. in Lumberton after going before a judge.
"Division officials have a high degree of concern for the safety of both the juvenile and the public, due to a prior history of assaultive and unpredictable behavior," the agency said.

        
          ESCAPED MURDER SUSPECT APPARENTLY DODGES POLICE, EXITS MOTEL HIDEOUT: COPS
        
      
The Robeson County Sheriff's Office said on Facebook the teenager escaped from the custody of the state's Department of Public Safety Transport Team at the time of his escape.
The 13-year-old was scheduled to appear in court for two counts of first-degree murder and robbery with a dangerous weapons charge, the sheriff's office added.
The teen's mother, Nikki Jacobs, told WRAL-TV her 13-year-old was "out here in the dark."
"My baby's out here somewhere, nobody knows, and he is all alone and hopefully he is safe wherever he is at," Jacobs said. "I just wish that he would come back, turn himself in and get the help that he needs."

        
          NEW HAMPSHIRE COUPLE FOUND DEAD IN TEXAS: WARRANT OUT FOR 'ARMED AND DANGEROUS' MAN
        
      
The Robeson County Sheriff's Office said the teenager was last seen wearing a white T-shirt and beige pants at the intersection of Highway 72 and Country Club Road in Lumberton. When the 13-year-old made his appearance in juvenile court, he was also wearing leg restraints without any shoes.
Officials have described the 13-year-old as having brown eyes with brown hair. They say he is 5 feet tall and weighs approximately 110 pounds.
"We currently have helicopters from the Bladen County Sheriff's Office, Brunswick County Sheriff's Office, US Marshals from Wilmington and Fayetteville, Lumberton Police and sheriffs deputies are searching for him," police said. "The Robeson District Attorney's Office has been on hand, as well."

        
          CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
        
      
At one point, officials warned residents in the area of Planetarium Road about "low-flying helicopters" as darkness fell, in addition to "dozens of officers" deployed on the ground.
Authorities later cleared the area, but said that deputies were continuing to work to find the escaped teenager. The 13-year-old and a 19-year-old were charged in October when deputies found two men, Frank Thomas, 34, and Adam Thomas, 33, dead in a home they shared, WRAL reported at the time.
Anyone with information about the whereabouts of the 13-year-old is asked is to call Matthew Jenkins with the Department of Public Safety Communications Center at (919) 825-2726 or the Robeson County Sheriff’s Office at (910) 671-3170.
