
# 9 Festive Flat Shoes That'll Convince You To Leave Your Heels At Home

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:12:40+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/9-festive-flats-to-slip-on-when-youve-had-enough-of-wearing-heels-this-christmas-19291807)

Christmas is almost upon us which means you may be staring at a pile of heels you really don't want to wear. Don't fret, for there's no need to put your feet under unnecessary strain this season. Instead, slip on one of the following festive flat shoes and prepare to spend every occasion pain-free.
It's unclear when winter festivities became synonymous with sky-high heels, but the desire to throw on those towering velvet sandals and lacy stilettos doesn't seem to disappear. And every year, you immediately regret that decision.
Previously, it was difficult to find something that suited your newfound sparkly sartorial taste. But now, footwear designers have heard the cries of agony. Now, they have released mules, pumps, and more in all manner of hues and prints. They've even finished them off with gemstones and bows, making them ideal for pairing with both minimal outfits and super striking ones. Plus, they tend to be a bit cheaper.
So the next time you're invited out for a Christmas do or simply want to get in the festive mood, avoid the heel temptation and reach for these high street decorative flats. It's one fashion decision you're guaranteed not to weep over.

        League Mary Jane Ballet Flats£25|ASOSLeopard print and rhinestones make for a match made in heaven. Available in UK size 2 to 9.Buy now
      

        Velvet Constellation Mules£25.99|ZaraA velveteen fabric makes these slip-ons your cosiest winter choice yet. Available in UK size 2 to 9.Buy now
      

        Metallic Leather Ballerinas£99|UterqueAdd a metallic twist to your Christmas Day look with these silver-hued ballerina flats. Available in UK size 3 to 8.Buy now
      

        Zebra Leather Shoes£59.99|MangoHalf plain, half printed, these zebra-patterned flats will spice up a simple outfit. Available in UK size 3 to 8.Buy now
      

        Kita Rainbow Stripe Flat Mules£139|Kurt GeigerStay as far away from a dreary season as possible with this colourful pair. Available in UK size 2 to 8.Buy now
      

        Adelaide Jewelled Flats£110|BodenThis sparkly style comes complete with a striking embellished bow. Available in UK size 3.5 to 8.5.Buy now
      

        White Pluto Pumps£23£13.80|Dorothy PerkinsMake a statement with these black-and-white stripes. Available in UK size 3 to 9.Buy now
      

        Wide Fit Lately Pointed Mules£20|ASOSDesigned in a cosy wide fit, these super soft mules are guaranteed to never leave your side. Available in UK size 2 to 9. Buy now
      

        Extra Wide Fit Silver Glitter Ballerina Pumps£22£17.60|EvansIt's not the festive season without an extra dose of glitter. Available in UK size 4 to 10 and designed in an extra wide fit.Buy now
      
