
# How To Say No To ‘Pick Your Brain’ Meetings

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Burns**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/stephanieburns/2019/11/04/how-to-say-no-to-pick-your-brain-meetings/)

In the 10 years I’ve been an entrepreneur - I’ve been asked to have more “pick your brain” meetings than I can count. Almost every time I do, I regret it. People don’t come prepared with questions, don’t listen to your advice, and you’ve stopped working on revenue-generating activities to give your time away for free. A woman once asked Jody and I to meet her for a pick your brain meeting and we said sure. She asked us to meet her at a restaurant in La Jolla, CA. It turned out to be a very, very expensive restaurant in a famous hotel down by the water. She would ask for our advice on something, then promptly disagree and tell us why. When the $120 check came, she stared at us expectantly. So I paid. I was furious when it was all said and done. Not only did she disagree and get defensive with us, but she invited us to lunch but expected me to pay. I vowed to never say yes to a “pick your brain” meeting ever again. Which, of course, I haven’t stuck to but I’m better at setting boundaries using one of the methods below. 
A lot of entrepreneurs WANT to help, they WANT to share what they know - but after too many disappointing pick your brain meetings, enough is enough. It’s so hard to say no, but when you take inventory of what you’ve given up, you’ll realize it was about 3 hours of your time on average traveling to a coffee shop or restaurant and the meeting itself. That’s a lot of time - especially if you charge by the hour. 
Here are some ways to say no to these meetings while still helping new entrepreneurs get access to the information that will help them move forward. Win win.

        Hold an event
      
When Chic CEO got started, my partner Jody and I started a networking event series. It was a great way for us to establish our credibility, meet new people and connect the amazing women we were getting to know. After the expensive lunch mentioned above, Jody and I started telling women that if they wanted to have a chat with us, they should just attend one of our networking events. Registration was $20. This was the best scenario for us because it allowed us to chat with a lot of people at once, answer questions, address challenges and introduce them to other women who could help. If we got 50 people to an event, we made $1000 and thus got paid for our time. It truly was a win win for the new entrepreneur and for us. Related: How To Throw A Networking Event

        Ask for an email
      
If someone wants to have a coffee meeting with you, let them know that you are so super swamped that you can’t possibly break away, but you’d be happy to address any questions they have over email. If I had to guess, I would say out of every 20 women who ask me for a pick your brain meeting - only 2 will send questions when asked. When they do take the time to gather their thoughts and do some research - I will 100% respond with my thoughts. These are the people I want to work with, these are the women I want to help. The ones who understand what I do and how I might shed some light on their challenges. Showing up to a coffee or lunch unprepared with questions is a total waste of time for everyone. Asking them to articulate what they are struggling with over email is a great way to cut down on the fat. Bonus: by doing this, you most likely have a new blog post on your hands that will truly resonate with your target customer. 

        Send them an invoice
      
A lot of really successful female entrepreneurs I know will simply reply with an invoice and a note that says “I would love to chat more with you! My hourly rate is $ABC. I’ve attached an invoice, once it’s paid, we can get it on the books.” It seems a bit harsh, but if you’ve shown up for a pick your brain meeting and the other party is totally unprepared, they’ve just stollen from you. This is a very clear message that you value your time, and theirs, and will provide them with your best. Very few people will take you up on this, but that’s the point. The people who are willing to pay for your time, truly value your knowledge, expertise and need your help. 
These three methods will help you make the most of your time while still serving people, without being taken advantage of. 
