
# After 76 years, Second World War fighter pilot reunited with refurbished Hurricane he flew

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:46:25+00:00**

Author: **Bill Kaufmann**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/after-76-years-wwii-fighter-pilot-reunited-with-refurbished-hurricane-he-flew)

Seventy-six years after he last flew it, Calgarian Gordon Hill reunited Wednesday with the aircraft he piloted to guard Canada’s West Coast.
Sitting near the newly restored Hawker Hurricane Mk XII in its camouflaged metal skin, the 95-year-old was at first nonchalant about the reunion.
“They were all similar,” he said of Squadron 133’s Hurricanes he piloted on Vancouver Island, on the watch for any Japanese incursions following the attack on Pearl Harbor.
“I flew this one apparently nine times. I got that information from my logbooks.”
But as he moved slowly over to the warbird known as Hurricane 5389, marked with its telltale yellow, red, white and black roundel, he warmed to the wartime memories summoned in unlikely physical form.
“Actually, this was easy to fly and easy to land, with a nice, wide undercarriage,” said Hill.
“That’s a nice airplane … I never flew one in anger.”
But after a one-year stint on the B.C. coast piloting Hurricanes, he was transferred to northwest Europe, where he flew Spitfires against the retreating Germans in the final months of the war.
“The Spitfire was a modern Hurricane … the Spitfire was faster, had more horses,” he said, fingering a pair of shiny metal wings pinned to his blazer denoting that combat service.
He praised the painstaking renovation work on Hurricane 5389 that left it looking like it just left the assembly line in 1942 at the Canadian Car & Foundry plant in Fort William (now Thunder Bay), Ont.
The last he’d heard of the plane, it was a wreck following a 1943 crash that involved another pilot.
Hurricane 5389 was subsequently repaired and sent to Saskatchewan to hunt down Japanese firebomb balloons sent across the Pacific late in the war.
“I don’t think I ever envisioned at that time I’d be doing this,” said Hill.
He noted Hurricane fighters are best known for their role in holding the German Luftwaffe at bay during the 1940 Battle of Britain.
No. 5389 was reassembled with original or procured parts over seven years, with 23,000 work hours and at a cost of $700,000 at Historic Aviation Services in Wetaskiwin, about 250 kilometres north of Calgary.
An Edmontonian who undertook some of that work by building its wing pins and coolant lines couldn’t stay away from Wednesday’s unveiling at the Hangar Flight Museum.
“I’m an airplane nut and having a historical aircraft like this to work on is tremendous,” said Ralf Wermann of the Argus Machine Co. Ltd.
“We couldn’t get some parts, so we reverse-engineered — we had a sample.”
The aircraft was so meticulously restored, it includes a dozen original .303 calibre machine guns and other parts.
“They even found a gun camera for it,” said Wermann.
One of only 63 of the iconic fighters left in the world, it arrived in Calgary a week ago aboard a flatbed truck.
The Hangar Flight Museum’s Herb Grieder was there to greet it and had no trouble summoning colleagues despite the late hour.
“We had to work at midnight — not one person said no,” said Grieder, who recalled first seeing the aircraft in a scattering of parts in a museum shed a decade ago.
“Now, it’s like being a kid in a candy store,” he said. “It’s home.”
Attending Wednesday’s event in a leather bomber jacket, the man behind Hurricane 5389’s resurrection gazed with satisfaction over what he called “mission accomplished.”
“It’s quite a stunning sight on a day most people thought would never happen,” said Richard de Boer, president of the Calgary Mosquito Aircraft Society.
He recalled a five-year battle to finance the work, which eventually saw the City of Calgary provide half the funds.
Also being overseen by the society is the restoration of a Second World War-era Mosquito fighter-bomber at the Bomber Command Museum in Nanton.
Meanwhile, the Hangar Flight Museum’s rusting Avro CF-100 Canuck fighter of Cold War-era vintage will soon be heading to Wetaskiwin for its own facelift, at a cost of $400,000.

        BKaufmann@postmedia.com
      
on Twitter: @BillKaufmannjrn
