
# Save Big On Sony's A8G Series TVs Powered By Android TV

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/sony-a8g-series-tv-deals-cheap-price-sale.html)

If you're in the market for a new TV, then the Sony A8G Series is currently worth checking out. Especially at it is currently on sale. Right now, you can pick up a Sony A8G TV from as little as $1,498 through Amazon.
This TV runs on Android TV which makes this deal all the sweeter as there's no need to also buy a separate streaming device. With Android TV included, you get all the benefits of a streaming platform built-in.
It also means you get Google Assistant built in too. Not only can Google Assistant provide you with feedback to questions through the TV, but it can also be used to control compatible smart home products.
Advertisement
If Alexa is more your smart home thing then don't worry – this TV is compatible with Alexa as well.
For those more interested in knowing what the display offers, then this is an OLED display. One with support for 4K HDR and Dolby Vision. Helping to power the TV and also driving up the viewing improvements is Sony's own X1 Extreme processor.
If the price sounds like a lot, it's not. The $1,498 price marks a decent discount compared to the $2,299 listed price. For reference, this appears to be the lowest this 2019 model has been sold through Amazon since the TV launched.
Advertisement
It's worth noting this particular price drop relates to the 55-inch model. If you're in need of a larger TV then you can also pick up the 65-inch version for $1,998 through Amazon.
Again, that marks a substantial discount compared to the $3,499 listed price. Also, again, this appears to be the lowest priced the 65-inch has been sold at since launch.
No matter which size you opt for, you are getting a great TV here. Not only is this a Sony TV, but it is a premium Sony TV.
Advertisement

        Sony A8G TVs - From $1498 - Amazon
      
