
# Sumit Nagal, Prajnesh Gunneswaran, Ramkumar Ramanathan to feature in the KPIT-MSLTA Challenger

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:14:15+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/tennis/2019/nov/01/sumit-nagal-prajnesh-gunneswaran-and-ramkumar-ramanathan-to-feature-in-the-kpit-mslta-challenger?utm_medium=rss)


        India’s top singles players including the likes of Sumit Nagal, Prajnesh Gunneswaran, and Ramkumar Ramanathan will feature in the KPIT-MSLTA Challenger, which will commence in Pune from November 11. The singles winner will get a prize money of $7,200 and will also earn 80 ATP points.
      
India’s top singles players including the likes of Sumit Nagal, Prajnesh Gunneswaran, Ramkumar Ramanathan will feature in the KPIT-MSLTA Challenger, which begins in Pune from November 11.
“With the new 48-player draw format, the cut-off this year is 550, which makes it very strong Challenger at this level,” Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association (MSLTA) secretary Sunder Iyer said to Sportstar.
Of the 48 players, a total of 41 players will be given entry, while a couple of players will join through qualifiers and the rest of the five positions will be filled through wild cards. The organisers confirmed that the qualifying round will have only two matches, which will be played on November 11 alongside the main draw and the final of the event will be played on November 17. The singles winner will get a prize money of $7,200 and will also earn 80 ATP points, while the runner’s up will win $4,240 and earn 48 ATP points.
“This is the last Challenger event before the Australian Open. So, players who are on the fringe of the main draw at the Australian Open will try to hold their spots. For them, this tournament will be important,” KPIT’s CEO and Managing Director Kishor Patil, said.
India’s tennis ace Purav Raja hoped that it will be an evenly fought contest between some of the top names. The ATP supervisor for the event will be Roland Herfel, while Sheetal Iyer will be the ATP referee.
