
# 'God already spoke to me': Trump spiritual adviser predicts visions for those who give money to her ministry

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:09:58+00:00**

Author: **John Gage**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/god-already-spoke-to-me-trump-spiritual-adviser-paula-white-predicts-visions-for-those-who-give-money-to-her-ministry)

Paula White, President Trump's personal spiritual adviser, and recent addition to his administration told the congregation at a service over the weekend that God would provide guidance to those who donate to her ministry.
"I want you to hear from God. God already spoke to me," White said Sunday evening during a live-streamed sermon. "You're going to write your checks to Paula White ministry because this is power night."
White said "power night" at the church was different than her normal "City of Destiny" service, and that she was allowing the congregation a special chance to tithe. "Every single person gets something significant," she said after explaining the various ways people could pay.
[ Also read: 'I think we're very close': Freed Pastor Andrew Brunson urges young American Christians to prepare for persecution]
She then began praying and asked God to "speak with clarity" for those building an altar on which they would sacrifice their funds to God. "That altar, maybe that's a sacrifice of $50 or $100. Maybe it's $1,000," she said.
White said later in her prayer that what she was proposing was not "buying a miracle" but "simply being obedient," adding, "If God tells you to give $12 and 99 cents, do it."
The megachurch leader told the Washington Examiner on Friday that Trump wanted to build a megachurch with her in 2006. White has joined the administration as a part of the Office of Public Liaison, where she will be tasked with working on the administration's Faith and Opportunity Initiative.
