
# Pep Guardiola agrees with Jurgen Klopp over fixture pile-up

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:41:43+00:00**

Author: **David McDonnell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-mcdonnell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/pep-guardiola-agrees-jurgen-klopp-20789199)

Pep Guardiola has backed title rival Jurgen Klopp by claiming too many games are wrecking modern players.
Liverpool boss Klopp complained at fixture pile-up, with the Reds struggling to find a date for their Carabao Cup quarter-final against Aston Villa.
Klopp's side are due to travel to Villa on December 17, but cannot keep to that date because they play in Qatar the following day in FIFA's Club World Cup.
Liverpool face the prospect of having to field two different teams in the games if an alternative date cannot be found for the Carabao Cup tie.
Klopp said Liverpool could be forced to pull out of the competition, with Manchester City boss Guardiola agreeing with his managerial rival.
“I completely agree,” said Guardiola. “Less games. Less fixtures, less competitions, more recovery.
“We play December 27 and 29 in winter. It’s always the debate, in UEFA meetings they talk about it. I’m with Jurgen about it being too much.”
Guardiola admitted the weight of fixture pile-up meant he was forced to rotate his squad for Tuesday's 3-1 Carabao Cup win over Southampton .
“I didn’t play Kevin [De Bruyne] Ilkay [Gundogan], David [Silva] - and Arsenal and Liverpool have done the same,” said Guardiola.
“The players who don’t play regularly play more often [in the Carabao Cup] but it’s too much.”
