
# Nordstrom Pre-Black Friday Boot Sale 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Finds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/06/nordstrom-pre-black-friday-boot-sale/)

There’s no season like boot season! Fall is the perfect time to wear your favorite boot styles ahead of the harsh winter weather, and we've got you covered with the best boots available ahead of Black Friday. Right now, you can get a variety of fall boot styles at a fraction of the cost. From the trendy thigh-high boot style to stylish wedge rain boots or everyday booties that match with virtually any outfit, we’ve got all of your pre-Black Friday shopping covered with select styles from Vince Camuto, UGG and more.These boots are made for walkin’ (and on sale now!).
Original Price: $239
Sale Price: $100
This fall, try one of the trendiest styles of the season with Vince Camuto Kochelda Over The Knee Boot. Over-the-knee styles made a huge splash last year and are expected to do the same again this fall. Vince Camuto’s take on the trend is not just stylish, but comfortable too. Not to mention: It goes with pretty much all of your favorite fall sweaters and dresses.

        
          Shop Now
        
      
Original Price: $200
Sale Price: $140
Sometimes you just need a little extra comfort, and that’s what UGG has been delivering for years. These boots are available in a few different colors, and look great both around the home and out and about — especially headed into the winter season.

        
          Shop Now
        
      
Original Price: $55
Sale Price: $35
With the fall season comes the rain, and if you get caught in the rain, you probably want to be wearing a pair of rain boots. These rain boots are classy and stylish — not clunky and overly large, so no one will be able to tell that they were built specifically to keep you dry.

        
          Shop Now
        
      
Original Price: $130
Sale Price: $50
These boots will pretty much fit with any outfit. They’re classy, offer a soft suede material, and are easy to put on and take off thanks to their back pull tab. The fact that they’re available for a whopping 62 percent off makes them an even better steal.

        
          Shop Now
        
      
Original Price: $99
Sale Price: $50
Speaking of suede, a great pair of Chukka boots can also be ultra-versatile and work with almost any outfit. These boots are built for a high level of comfort while still offering a stylish look. The shoes offer a round toe, padded footbed, and more — helping make for a combination of style and comfort not found on any other shoes on this list.

        
          Shop Now
        
      
