
# Mido: Chiefs Have All The Quality Players…

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/kaizer-chiefs-have-quality-players-according-to-george-maluleka/666438)

It’s game day for the first competitive Soweto Derby of 2019/20, and one key performer thinks Kaizer Chiefs ‘have all the quality players’ ahead of the game…

        Read: Why Tau Was Missing In Belgium…
      
Chiefs’ squad depth has been tested in recent weeks due to injuries to several key players, but George Maluleka – who was battling an injury himself earlier in the month – feels that they have enough in their side to keep up their impressive form and overcome their bitter rivals, Orlando Pirates, this afternoon.
Ernst Middendorp has revealed that both Reeve Frosler and Kearyn Baccus will not be ready for today’s game against the Buccaneers at Moses Mabhida Stadium, and ‘Mido’ is looking for his other teammates to show ‘what Chiefs is all about’.
Speaking to the club’s official website this week, the 30-year-old said, “I feel we can manage… We have a sizeable squad, and everyone is ready to travel. Everyone knows they can contribute in these games and most of the guys are going to get a run. This is what Chiefs is all about.
“We have all the quality players and now is also the chance for the guys who have not been playing to also prove themselves.” 
Meanwhile, he also spoke of how last weekend’s win over Sundowns has given them a boost, saying, “Sunday’s win was good for our confidence. We become more focused and as a team you know your brothers next to you got you. We are willing to fight and keep going and doing well for the club, ourselves and our fans – a huge confidence booster we just want to keep doing well”.

        Read: Inside Chiefs - Naturena Opens As Duo Ruled Out 
      
Maluleka has featured in only one competitive win over Bucs since arriving at Naturena – the 2014 MTN8 final where he assisted the winner – and will be hoping to change that come this evening. 
