
# ‘G-Spot Of Europe’ Gets A Surge In Tourists Following X-Rated Campaign

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Thanussha Priyah**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407245/G-Spot-Of-Europe-Gets-A-Surge-In-Tourists-Following-X-Rated-Campaign/)

Europe is a large continent by itself, and the places to travel within it are limitless. There is a lesser-known destination, though, that previously wasn’t on everyone’s minds but is now aptly known as Europe’s “G-spot.” Vilnius, the capital of Lithuania, is calling itself “the G-spot of Europe” in a controversial marketing campaign. The city’s tourist board Go Vilnius launched the concept last year, upsetting some traditionalists including the bishop of Vilnius. An erotic promotional poster from the creative depicts a woman lying down on a sheet printed with a map and closing her eyes as if in pleasure. She clutches the sheets at the spot where Vilnius is located. The city also produced a website that encourages visitors to “get down to business” and “build your personal pleasure map.” Visitors can create their own “pleasure map” by taking a test on the site, which claims to reveal recommendations based on their preferences. This quiz includes statements like, “There is no such thing as too much tongue,” “real pleasure doesn’t come without breaking a sweat,” and “the right accessories can enhance any experience.” It then breaks down 48 activities fitted for users. For example, if they prefer to “be brave to experiment,” they might enjoy ghost tours and escape rooms. If visitors pick, “Do it in the dark,” they are presented with a list of nightlife spots. Those who prefer to “use [their] tongue” are recommended places to eat. Quiz-takers can also “skip the foreplay” to “browse through the pleasures of Vilnius.” The smutty ads were put up for a few weeks before Pope Francis’ 2018 visit to Vilnius, although the government requested that the tourist board delayed their launch until after. Vilnius is predominantly made up of Catholics, so the campaign had the city’s bishop concerned that it would be painted as a “sex tourism city.” However, the UK’s advertising watchdog Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) concluded that the campaign was not “exploitative or degrading,” as it “did not objectify the female character.” Advertisement Advertisement The campaign was recognized as the best destination campaign for a city at the International Travel and Tourism Awards this week, and the director of Go Vilnius Inga Romanovskienè told CNN that not only did Vilnius gain popularity from the witty campaign, but it also saw an increase in visitor numbers. The city apparently enjoyed a 12.5-percent spike in tourism last year. Given the provocative nature of the ads, it is evident that the capital hopes to attract a younger audience. “Our goal is to attract more young, curious travelers interested in discovering new exciting destinations,” Romanovskienè explained. Although it was rather suggestive, she emphasized that the imagery incorporated is “not explicit,” and that the content is not “aimed to be taken directly.” It is never the board’s intention to “cause offense,” but to reach out to an audience aged 18 to 35 through “humor” and the “ability not to take yourself too seriously,” Romanovskienè added. The campaign also includes a series of videos showcasing the “G-Spot” for various visitors at Vilnius. Check them out below.
