
# Kingsbridge opens doors to new state-of-the-art £1m ward

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/business/2019/11/02/news/kingsbridge-opens-doors-to-new-state-of-the-art-1m-ward-1754264/)

THE first phase of expansion plans has been completed by Kingsbridge Healthcare Group with the opening of a new £1 million six-bed ward at Kingsbridge Private Hospital in Belfast.
And the group says that over the next 18 months it will be increasing patient capacity by 30 per cent and taking on 30 new staff to service a range of innovative facilities and services.
These include an on-site pharmacy and luxury rooms with flat screen TV, en-suite facilities and bespoke reclining chairs for patients and settee bed should visitors require.
Local artist Kathryn Callaghan was also commissioned to create a vibrant artwork of the Mournes for each room.
Kingsbridge Healthcare Group (formerly 3fivetwo Group) have also extended their successful Private GP service which is now open at their Maypole Clinic in Holywood.
Mark Regan, chief executive at Kingsbridge, said the investment reflects the group's aim to bring five-star service and facilities to all their patients, many of whom travel from the Republic of Ireland for treatment.
"We are simply responding to increased demand," he said.
"More local people are self-funding or using private health insurance to avoid lengthy hospital waiting lists, particularly for procedures for hips and knees, which is why we are ranked in the top 10 of 200 private hospitals on the UK's National Joint Register.
"It's also not hard to see why a lot of our patients liken Kingsbridge to a hotel rather than a hospital. Along with excellent medical service, we provide first class accommodation, along with meals made from local produce by our own in-house chef."
Dr Regan added: "We're delighted to get this project delivered to deadline, thanks to the dedication of the Kingsbridge team, led by general manager Sarah Marks, and look forward to the next phase of our expansion in 2020."
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
