
# South African-born filmmaker to help bring James Dean back to life on the big screen in new movie

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:57:30+00:00**

Author: **Herman Eloff**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Movies/News/south-african-born-filmmaker-to-help-bring-james-dean-back-to-life-on-the-big-screen-in-new-movie-20191106)

Cape Town - According to an article published on The Hollywood Reporter, A South African-born filmmaker will help bring James Dean back to the big screen. 
The Rebel Without a Cause star, who died in a car crash in 1955 at the age of 24, has been cast in a supporting role in a new film posthumously via CGI.
The young actor will appear in the film Finding Jack which is based on the Gareth Crocker novel of the same name.
According to IndieWire, Los Angeles based production company Magic City Films obtained the rights to use James Dean in the role from his family.
The film will be spearheaded by South African filmmaker Anton Ernst and producer Tati Golykh with Canadian VFX company Imagine Engine and VFX studio MOI Worldwide helping bring the actor back to life on the big screen.
According to his LinkedIn profile, Anton - who studied at the University of Pretoria - is the CEO and Co-founder Magic City LA, Paris, Germany and Italy. His previous films include Safari - a found footage film set in the South African wild, where animals and poachers rule, reports IMDb. He also produced the film, Little One, which was directed by Darrel Roodt. 
Finding Jack, which tells the story of the abandonment of over 10 000 military dogs at the end of the Vietnam War, is set for release in November 2020.
