
# Tulsi Gabbard, 2020 candidate, defends frequent Fox News appearances

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Blake**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/6/tulsi-gabbard-2020-candidate-defends-frequent-fox-/)

Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, Hawaii Democrat and 2020 presidential candidate, responded Wednesday to criticism she received for willingly appearing for interviews on Fox News programs.
Ms. Gabbard defended her appearances on Fox News during a discussion with “The View” co-host Joy Behar that occurred during the latest episode of the latter’s morning show.
“You’re on state TV all the time,” Ms. Behard said to the congresswoman. “Why do you go on the Fox channel, which is a propaganda network?”
Ms. Behar stated that the congresswoman has appeared at least 16 times on the prime-time opinion program hosted by Fox News personality Tucker Carlson, who “View” co-host called “a liar and a propagandist,” and asked her to consider granting interviews to broadcasters who are more “middle-of-the-road.”
In response, Ms. Gabbard reasoned that she grants interviews to a range of media outlets, spanning the spectrum from CNN and MSNBC programs, to the Fox News shows hosted by Mr. Carlson and fellow conservative commentator Sean Hannity, among others.
“I am here to speak to every single American in this country about the unifying leadership that I want to bring as president, not just speak to those who agree with me, but to speak who those who may disagree with me, recognizing that I’m asking for the opportunity to serve every single person in this country,” Ms. Gabbard said. “We have to come together for our country and our country’s future.”
Ms. Gabbard criticized Ms. Behar moments earlier during the interview after she told the congresswoman she “might be an unwitting asset,” referring to a comment former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton made recently about the current White House hopeful allegedly being a “Russian asset.”
“Not that that means you’re stupid, but people can be used,” Ms. Behar reasoned.
“That’s exactly what it means, though,” Ms. Gabbard responded, calling Mr. Behar’s comment “offensive.”

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
