
# SOSMA remand period may be reduced, says Muhyiddin

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:59:06+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/sosma-remand-period-may-be-reduced-says-muhyiddin)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 6): The amendment to the Security Offences (Special Measures) Act (SOSMA) 2020 may involve reducing the maximum 28-day detention period which is seen as too long by some quarters.
Home Minister Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin said however, from the authorities' point of view, they might need more time to conduct investigations, especially in certain cases such as terrorism.
“Maybe we can consider 14 days of detention first and to extend (the detention) for another 14 days, (the authorities) must obtain court order. This is one of the examples of checks and balances,” he told reporters at Parliament lobby here today.
He also said a committee has been established to review related matters on SOSMA.
Yesterday, Prime Minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad was reported as saying that Government would amend all draconian laws, including SOSMA, as soon as possible.
According to Muhyiddin, there were a few issues related to SOSMA’s amendments that were currently not settled.
“The Ministry is still waiting in case there are still other parties that want to give their inputs, and once it is completed, we will present it to the Cabinet to get its approval, and once approved we will table it at the Parliament.
“I think (we can table it) during (the Parliament session) in early March 2020,” he added.
Meanwhile, PKR President Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim said Pakatan Harapan never said it would repeal SOSMA.
“...but several provisions which clearly against the principles of freedom and humanity must be amended,” he said.
