
# Found: An Elusive Shark In A South America Freshwater Lake For The First Time

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Melissa Cristina Márquez**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/melissacristinamarquez/2019/11/04/found-an-elusive-shark-in-a-south-america-freshwater-lake-for-the-first-time/)

The daggernose shark (Isogomphodon oxyrhynchus) is one of the most geographically restricted shark species in the world, endemic to the northern coast of South America from Trinidad and Tobago to Brazil's Gulf of Maranhão, the most eastern limit of the Amazon Coast. Named after a weapon because of their long nose and jaw, this muscular shark only reaches 5 feet (1.5 m) in length and feasts on small fish that school in the shallow and turbid estuarine coastal waters that daggernose sharks live in. But these small, slender fish are also targeted by this shark’s biggest threat: fishermen. Both fisheries dependent and independent studies have demonstrated that these sharks are bycatch of the gillnet fisheries targeting grey snapper (Cynoscion acoupa) and the Serra Spanish mackerel (Scomberomorus brasiliensis) more often than longline fishing.The daggernose sharks are losing the fight against overfishing since the 1980’s, and catches collapsed in the mid‐1990’s. According to a study conducted in 1992, the largest amount of daggernose sharks catches in Maranhão during the 1980’s-1990’s were composed of juveniles due to the small mesh sizes of the gillnets. This pressure from overfishing, combined with other life history features for these sharks (e.g. low fertility, low genetic diversity, late sexual maturation, restricted range) led to the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red List of Endangered Species to list these species as Critically Endangered. Some scientists argue this species is even closer to extinction than prediction, and that they are in a quasi-extinction stage.
However, only Brazil has a national plan for their conservation and their law prohibits catching of these sharks since 2004... but that hasn’t stopped some. “This occurs due to the lack of law enforcement in fisheries activities, as well as social factors involving artisanal fishermen livelihoods, such as low income per capita and little or no education,” says a recent study that looks into the daggernose shark. Led by researcher Leonardo Manir Feitosa, the ongoing study was actually never specifically focused on these endemic sharks. He clarified: “We try to investigate as much as we can the various species occurring in the Amazon coast with different techniques, especially the endangered and rare ones. The daggernose has always been on our radar and every record we get is accounted and we try to locate the specimens to obtain samples.”
One of these observations was one for the record books: the capture of a young‐of‐the‐year (YOY) daggernose shark in a freshwater system in Northern Brazil. It’s the first recorded in a non‐marine environment! “This particular record we received via a message from the environment secretary of the small city (Viana) where the specimen was caught and we never actually got to sample it. However, it is an interesting case of cooperation between academia, managers, and the fishing community to shed light on elusive species,” says Feitosa.
What does this rare capture mean for the daggernose shark? “We always believed based on evidence from Dr. Lessa's studies in the area during the 1980’s that the Amazon coast and its estuaries were a nursery for the daggernose shark. That's because the amount of juveniles captured was immensely higher than adult specimens. But only a few neonates were captured and the actual birthing grounds were never discovered,” explained Feitosa. “Since it inhabits highly turbid estuarine waters (less than 0.5m turbidity most of the year), we can only rely on fishing to visualize specimens. Regardless, it has always been considered to exist only from brackish to marine water, but never to enter freshwater systems. The record of a YOY well within a river system, even though it most likely occurred together with a strong saltwater intrusion in the area demonstrates not only that these animals might have different habits than previously thought, but also that the whole freshwater basin it was found in is changing.”
In fact, according to Feitosa, this was not the only marine animal found in that particular area over the past years, which might mean trouble for the freshwater species inhabiting it. Could the river is be getting weaker due to decreased rainfall? Possibly. Other factors changing the river could be the vegetation destruction and bad land use throughout its lengthy expanse.
While Feitosa and his team are not jumping to conclusions out of a single record like this one, they are now paying more attention to marine elasmobranchs (sharks, skates, and rays) entering freshwater systems in Maranhão. Some of the species they seen the past five years include bull sharks, largetooth sawfish, and now this daggernose shark. “Finding a YOY for such an endangered species is always a good thing [...] it still means that they are around and reproducing. It also expands our view on how this species uses its habitat, which is now one of our research focuses on a project that will start soon.”
Due to their conservation status, further research will be difficult. After all, this iconic shark may have a fearsome name, but doesn’t seem to be fighting well against the threat of extinction with a total biomass of the species decreased by 90% since the mid-1990’s. Still... there is hope in the Brazilian Amazon Coast for this endangered shark.
