
# Five Crisp Questions With Maggie Connors Of Besito

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Warren Bobrow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/warrenbobrow/2019/11/02/five-crisp-questions-with-maggie-connors-of-besito/)

Warren Bobrow=WB: Where are you from? What did you originally want to be when you were a younger person? How did you achieve the honor of working with our plant? Maggie Connors/Besito=MC/B: I grew up in Connecticut, where I wanted to be everything from a designer to a doctor, an architect to a therapist. I’ve been driven by impact, human connection, and design as long as I can remember. I fell in love with cannabis as soon as I tried it in high school, and always sought the healing it provided though it was difficult to access. There was a strong stigma, and I kept the solace I found in cannabis hidden from my parents and professional life for another decade. Because of the misinformation from prohibition, it took years for me to realize cannabis wasn’t just an illegal indulgence, but a deeply therapeutic natural remedy for my anxiety and chronic pain. Above all it gave me the quiet and presence to live in the moment and know myself better. 

        WB: Did you go to Business School?  Tell me about your company? What is your six-month plan? Twelve months? What obstacles stand in your way? How do you hope to remove these obstacles?
      
MC/B: I moved to California in 2014 to go to Stanford’s Graduate School of Business, and spent much of that time immersing myself in the cannabis industry. The recreational cannabis market was around the corner, and I was inspired to join the work of so many activists before by bringing safe cannabis to a larger audience. In particular I saw most brands were very masculine, potent, and often intimidating in messaging and appearance. I wanted to bring innovation that merged consumer control with a fun vibe that I was surprised to see missing from the market. That’s how we ended up with besito: a beautiful hexagonal vaporizer with delicious 2:1 THC:CBD blends that take the edge off without getting you stuck to the couch stoned. It’s a happy high that’s great for socializing. The six month plan is to grow the besito business throughout California. Twelve month plan includes new products in California and beyond. The major obstacle right now is the misinformation around vaporizers due to mostly illicit market products causing health problems.  We spent years doing R&D on hardware and oil to ensure the highest quality. Our products have been created by biochemists and vaporizer technologists who have been doing this for years in California’s medical market, and would never include the ingredients that are contributing to the health issues in the unregulated market. Like all legal products, besito is tested repeatedly for pesticides, heavy metals, solvents, and microbials, and does not reach a legal dispensary shelf unless it passes. Consumer safety is one of the main benefits of regulation and education is key. 

        WB: Do you cook? If so, what is your favorite thing to prepare? Do you have a favorite restaurant? What kind of food? Where?
      
MC/B: I’m more of the sous chef to my partner—rolling the home grown joints or assembling a killer charcuterie board. We like to host pizza parties where he makes the dough and guests customize personal pies with their toppings. Otherwise we love walking to our Venice favorites: brunch at Great White (Aussies do brekkie best), Felix for pasta, Hinano for a dive burger, and of course GTA pizza. 

        WB: Who is your mentor? How have they helped your company thrive in a competitive marketplace?
      
MC/B: Emily Paxhhia of Poseidon Asset Management has been a mentor since I messaged her out of the blue in 2015 when I was trying to get into the cannabis industry. We both shared brand backgrounds from advertising careers in NYC, and had a similar vision for where cannabis products could go. It’s been a lifesaver to have her to escape with for a besito break or glass of wine during the big cannabis conferences. She helped me navigate the early days of California licensing and create a compliant supply chain. Tapping into her network has helped our business, and most recently I was excited to bring her in as a besito investor. I’m very fortunate for the friendship of one of the most badass women in cannabis. 

        WB: What is your passion?
      
MC/B: I am passionate about how good businesses can also improve our world. I was inspired to start besito when I saw the opportunity to combine a few of my passions: social justice, design, cannabis and culture. We believe it’s a privilege to work in cannabis and recently launched a campaign called “A Record Shouldn’t Last a Lifetime” highlighting stories of those most affected by the War on Drugs and advocating for widespread national expungement. We also announced a partnership with Equity First Alliance where 1% of besito profits will go towards supporting their reparative justice work. Every legal weed company should be acknowledging the history of this plant and actioning towards an equitable future. 
