
# Britannia season two review – the Roman romp so radical it must be revered

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:01:09+00:00**

Author: **Jack Seale**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2019/nov/07/britannia-season-two-review-the-roman-romp-so-radical-it-must-be-revered)


        Jez Butterworth’s trippy retelling of the Romans deserves a laurel wreath for having the cheek to even exist. Make mine a mouthful of hallucinogenic bark!
      
So, it is AD45, and the Roman conquest of Britain is a fragile success. One hostile Celtic tribe has been destroyed and another tamed, its new queen a puppet of the occupation led by the ruthless general Aulus Plautius. But now Aulus must play internal politics: the emperor, Claudius, is visiting, and that spells a power struggle.
Except this is Britannia (Sky Atlantic), so Claudius is played by Steve Pemberton, and he has developed piles on the elephant ride up from Rome. As Aulus debriefs him, Claudius is prone on a table, having his rectum swiped at by a tremulous physician with a hot trowel. “Fucking JUPITER!” shouts Claudius, yelping in pain. “This arse is shot. I’m thinking of closing it down and opening a new one nearby.”
Meanwhile, in a forest in the damp north, the druids are having a synod, which means writhing around smothered in woad, beating timpani with furry sticks while they wait for their leader, Veran (Mackenzie Crook) – a bald, puckered sprite who looks like he sleeps upside-down dipped in vinegar – to have one of his visions. When he has got the message from the ether, he scythes open a live donkey, smears himself in entrails and announces that a new war is on. Welcome to season two!
Where other pre-medieval dramas tend to use the Romans as an excuse for political allegories, with a naughty dessert of bare breasts and sword injuries, Britannia employs them as a gateway to something stranger and trippier. Creators Tom and Jez Butterworth have accepted Sky’s visibly generous production budget and handed back not the epic sweep of an august historical fable, but a grinning Mardi Gras of gnarled mysticism, gamey dialogue and ultra-gore, with a bubbly sitcom undercurrent. Its central conceit is that first-century Britain might simply be too stupid to conquer.
The second series is set to focus even more on Aulus, played with relish by David Morrissey in a range of implausibly tailored leatherwear. Morrissey really is a top-drawer bastard, growling his lines with the glinting eyes of someone who actively enjoys how toxic his masculinity is. He embodies Britannia’s unique tone, threatening and playful, capable of being silly when you expect horrible violence, and vice versa. Take the scene where Aulus is re-introduced to us: he has had a big spa pool built and is using it for meetings, so his attempt to bully three chieftains into denouncing their idols and worshipping Vulcan instead takes place with everyone half-submerged in steamy water. Aulus is on archly unpleasant form but, just when you think he is about to stab them all in the face, one of the scrofulous local dignitaries points out that their god has “eight arms and six cocks” and the conversation tails off.
Although it loves to nudge and wink at the audience, Britannia is not one big joke. Note has been taken, for instance, of viewer enquiries as to whether it would persist with Hurdy Gurdy Man by Donovan as its theme song, a choice somehow both jarringly odd and shamelessly on-the-nose. And lo, Hurdy Gurdy Man has indeed been replaced by … Season of the Witch. By Donovan. Later, we get a bit of Barabajagal as well, plus some Cream and Fairport Convention. Why not? The strident faux-classical strings you might expect would be no less anachronistic a soundtrack for a show set in the first century. Sixties folk-pop is a sign that Britannia is going to lean harder into its Wicker Man tones, but the main reason for the Butterworths using it is probably just that it sounds cool.
As for the upcoming episodes, we are on a “broadcast one, bung the rest up online” deal here, offering fans the chance to pour themselves another goblet of wine with twigs in it and immediately see more of Crook as Veran the pickled eggman’s estranged twin brother, a character who looks like he could have appeared in Threads, had it included a subplot about the brave survival of the West Country goth scene. Diehard devotees wolfing down mouthfuls of hallucinogenic bark and bingeing the whole season are rewarded with druggy pranks, staggering murders, a family-secret story ripped from the womb of EastEnders, and a lot more stuff about rival gods playing with mortal humans for sport – building on episode one’s pre-credits sequence, a crucifixion flashback with a workplace-farce vibe that Monty Python’s Life of Brian might have rejected for being too breezily blasphemous.
None of this amounts to much dramatically or emotionally, of course. Britannia is one of those shows you just have to imbibe, celebrating that it has the sheer cheek even to exist. Praise the capricious TV gods!
