
# Affin Bank names Agil Natt as new chairman

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:49:11+00:00**

Author: **Justin Lim**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/affin-bank-names-agil-natt-new-chairman)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 4): Affin Bank Bhd has appointed Datuk Agil Natt as chairman of the group, effective Nov 8, replacing General Tan Sri Mohd Zahidi Zainuddin.
In a stock exchange filing today, Affin Bank said Agil Natt currently serves as chairman of Credit Guarantee Corporation Malaysia Bhd (CGC), Manulife Insurance Bhd and Manulife Asset Management Services Bhd.
He also sits on the board of Cagamas Bhd and Sogo (KL) Department Store Sdn Bhd. Besides these appointments, he is a Member of the Investment Panel of the Employees Provident Fund Board.
Affin Bank said Agil has vast experience in the areas of corporate banking, investment banking as well as Islamic finance.
He started his career in corporate finance with Bumiputra Merchant Bankers Bhd in 1977 prior to serving as senior general manager with Island & Peninsular Bhd.
He was also the regional chief representative of Kleinwort Benson Ltd before joining the Maybank Group in 1995. He had served as senior general manager of corporate banking, managing director/chief executive officer of Aseambankers Bhd (now known as Maybank Investment Bank Bhd), and deputy president/executive director of Maybank. He left the Maybank Group to assume the position of president and chief executive officer of The International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF), The Global University of Islamic Finance established by Bank Negara Malaysia.
He holds a Bachelor of Science in Economics (Hons) from Brunel University, London, and a Master of Science in Finance from Cass Business School, City, University of London. He had also attended the Advanced Management Programme (AMP 163) at Harvard Business School, the United States.
At the noon break today, shares of Affin Bank settled unchanged at RM1.93, valuing it at RM3.85 billion.
