
# Jason Momoa Says Aquaman Won’t Meet Robert Pattinson’s Batman

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:39:48+00:00**

Author: **Robert Workman**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/movies/470999-jason-momoa-says-aquaman-wont-meet-robert-pattinsons-batman)

The DC Extended Universe has taken some interesting turns this year, particularly with Robert Pattinson signing on as The Batman. But that doesn’t mean that Pattinson’s Batman and Jason Momoa’s Aquaman will be crossing paths anytime soon. Entertainment Tonight recently spoke with Momoa, and he addressed the possibility of the new Batman meeting Aquaman.
“It would be awesome,” said Momoa. “But I don’t think it’s going to go that way…Let’s just let them do their thing and I’ll do my thing.”
The DCEU timeline may partially explain this. The Batman will focus on a younger version of Bruce Wayne. And Momoa has already worked alongside Ben Affleck’s Batman in the 2017 Justice League film.
Regardless, Momoa shared his excitement to see what Pattinson will bring to the role.
“I’m really, really stoked,” proclaimed Momoa. “He’s a good man, he’s a great actor. I’m excited about the whole thing.”
He also had praise for his step-daughter, Zoe Kravitz, who was cast in the film as Catwoman.
“So proud, it’s perfect casting,” said Momoa. “She’s gonna kill it.” 
Director Matt Reeves is currently working on The Batman, which is set to release on June 25, 2021. Momoa’s return to Aquaman will follow, with the James Wan-directed sequel debuting on December 16, 2022.
Would you want to see a movie where Aquaman runs into the younger Batman? Let us know in the comments below!

        Recommended Reading: The Art and Making of Aquaman
      
