
# Jurgen Klopp's dressing room message to Liverpool before Barcelona comeback

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:13:49+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopps-dressing-room-message-20817645)

Liverpool enjoyed one of the finest moments in their history when they stunned Barcelona en route to Champions League glory last season.
Few gave the Reds a prayer as they entered the second leg at Anfield 3-0 down and staring at a semi-final exit.
Yet they performed a miraculous comeback to shock the Catalan giants, snatching a 4-3 aggregate win before lifting their sixth European crown against Tottenham in Madrid.
Striker Sadio Mane has now revealed exactly what Jurgen Klopp told his side immediately before they stepped out onto the Anfield pitch on a historic night.
And he claims Klopp predicted his side would perform the unthinkable to secure their spot in the final.
Speaking to France Football , Mane recalled: "He always knows what to say and even then, he finds a way to surprise you.
"Like last season before the second leg against FC Barcelona in the Champions League semi-finals. He said: 'Hey guys, I've got some good news for you.'
"'The good news is that Barcelona is a team that likes to play and we love playing against those (types of) teams. You'll see. We're going to reach the final.'
"It really was the best way to take the pressure off us."
In the same interview, Mane explained the "secret' behind Klopp's successful command of the Anfield dressing room - being a father figure to his players.
The Senegalese striker said: “His secret, I think, is to be the team’s dad. Between us, everything clicked straight away.
"We all love him like a father and we fear him like one too.
"He takes up a lot of space in my life, and not just in football. He’s great as a person.
"I trust him blindly, like most of the dressing room, I think.”
