
# Glasgow Nando's will open doors to feed the homeless on Christmas Day

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:38:22+00:00**

Author: **Kirsty McKenzie, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/kirsty-mckenzie/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/glasgow-nandos-open-doors-feed-20794942)

A Nando's in Glasgow is set to open its doors to the homeless on Christmas Day in a heartwarming festive gesture.
The city centre restaurant, on Waterloo Street, will exclusively serve those across Glasgow who are without a home for Christmas.
The peri peri chicken chain took to Facebook to ask customers to help share their initiative online so that it spreads to people down on their luck who may be alone on the 25th.
They also asked users to chip in with anything they could, including scarfs, gloves, jackets, toiletries and sleeping bags, according to Glasgow Live .
Writing online, they said: "We are planning on opening on Christmas Day to feed some of Glasgow’s many homeless.
"We’d love to be able to give them some gifts to help them keep warm and clean and we need your help!
"We have placed a bin at our entrance and would love if you could help us fill it with hats, gloves, blankets, toiletries, jackets, sleeping bags etc.
 
"Anything you can give would help so we can give these people at little bit of cheers on Christmas Day."
Hundreds responded saying how much they would like to donate items with many more offering to volunteer on Christmas Day to help the Nandos staff.
The post has now been shared over 11k times and has over 600 comments.
One person replied: "What an awesome plan. Bless you for your kindness."
Another commented:  "What a wonderful kind, caring thing to do!"
A third added: "Amazing to see a company so big open on Christmas Day to do some good!"
Another said: "Reading all comments there are so many wonderful kind people who are always willing to donate. Where would we be without this generosity from them. Congratulations to Nando's and to all the other compassionate people out there."
"Well done you guys and gals, good idea. It is time to look after our own folks," said a fifth.
Nando's staff said they were overwhelmed by the positive response.
Manager Andy Patrao later commented:  "Thank you so much for all your kind offers of help and support for what we are trying to achieve. It is truly overwhelming.
 
"I am meeting with with a number of charities with a lot more experience than myself at all of this so we hope to be able to make the most of all the offers that have been flooding in and really make the most of everyone’s kindness and generosity."
So touching! People really do make Glasgow.
For more information on how to donate, visit Nando's  Facebook page .
