
# 4 NCRPO men face dismissal over foiled NBP smuggle try

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:10:24+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/4-ncrpo-men-face-dismissal-over-foiled-nbp-smuggle-try)

The official did not identify the four but said two of them are Police Corporals who were accosted for allegedly attempting to smuggle 60 cigarette sticks and liquor hidden inside two bottles of iced tea inside the NBP compound.
Sinas that during questioning at the NCRPO headquarters in Camp Bagong Diwa in Bicutan, Taguig City, the two claimed they were only ordered by their respective seniors to bring the banned cigarettes and liquor inside the NBP.
One of the two ‘seniors’ was identified as a corporal from the Manila Police District and a Staff Sergeant from the Southern Police District.
“Ang maximum penalty nyan is dismissal, ang medium penalty nyan is one rank demotion, ang minimum penalty is two to six months suspension,” said the Metro Manila police chief.
Sinas said that the Philippine National Police Anti-Cybercrime Group is still examining the cell phones recovered from the policemen.
“Once mapatunayan na guilty po sila sa kasong ito, na meron talaga silang intention to deceive, dismissal po sa serbisyo ang katapat ng kaso nila,” Sinas said.
However, he said they are still investigating if the cigarettes, liquor and mobile phones recovered from the two were to be sold to NBP inmates.
Sinas said he has ordered the immediate relief of 16 NCRPO police officers who reportedly trafficked contraband at the NBP to pave the way for a fair and formal fact-finding investigation
He assigned the NCRPO Regional Investigation and Detective Management Division to spearhead the investigation of the 16.
The NCRPO director also clarified that the 16 are not part of the 551 NCRPO personnel which were initially fielded to guard the critical areas of NBP.
“Instead, they are part of the teams sent to augment troops tasked to demolish shanties and other illegal structures and confiscate contraband inside the Maximum-Security Compound,” he said.
Following the incident, Sinas said that the composite teams which were initially fielded to the NBP were replaced by the personnel from the mobile reaction unit of NCRPO – the Regional Mobile Force Battalion.
“Henceforth, preparations are underway for this anticipated changing of guards. We will keep a keen eye on our men assigned at the state penitentiary to avoid corruption and spurn possible bribes from inmates inside the country’s main insular penitentiary,” he said.
