
# Chelsea player ratings from Ajax draw as Blues battle back against nine-man visitors

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:52:28+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/chelsea-player-ratings-ajax-draw-20817980)

Chelsea came from three goals down to snatch a 4-4 draw from a roller-coaster Champions League encounter with Ajax.
The game got off to a blistering start when the visitors took a shock lead in the second minute, after Tammy Abraham turned an Ajax free-kick into his own net past the helpless Kepa Arrizabalaga.
But two minutes later and the Blues were level when Christian Pulisic was fouled in the penalty area, with Jorginho duly stepping up to confidently fire home the equaliser.
Frank Lampard's side, however, found themselves behind again when Quincy Promes sneaked in at the back post to head home a second for the buoyant visitors and then Hakim Ziyech and Donny Van De Beek gave them a surprise 4-1 lead. 
 
Chelsea reduced the deficit to two again when Pulisic's cross was prodded towards goal by Abraham and Cesar Azpilicueta made sure at the far post.
Then in another crazy 60 seconds Daley Blind was shown a second yellow card for fouling Abraham and Joel Veltman followed him down the tunnel for handling Callum Hudson-Odoi's shot.
Stamford Bridge was rocking as Jorginho rolled in his second penalty of the night. And it was pandemonium moments later when substitute Reece James levelled the scores.

        Here are how Chelsea's players players rated...
      
 

        Kepa Arrizabalaga 5
      
Had an absolute stinker with Ziyech’s free kick ending up with an own goal.

        Cesar Azpilicueta 7
      
MotM. Booked. Led incredible fightback, a real captain's performance.

        Fikayo Tomori 5
      
This was a sharp learning curve - got isolated, beaten and taught a lesson.

        Kurt Zouma 6
      
Great spirit and passion, fought hard to get Chelsea back in the game.

        Marcos Alonso 4
      
Undone horribly in defence, hooked at half time which tells its own story.

        Jorginho 7
      
Struck home two ice cool penalties to get Chelsea level - didn’t last. Decent.

        Mateo Kovacic 7
      
The busiest of Chelsea’s midfielders, he worked hard and never gave up.
 

        Mason Mount 5
      
Quiet night as he struggled to make things happen. Hobbled off injured.

        Willian 6
      
Frustrating first half but worked hard and battled in Chelsea's comeback.

        Christian Pulisic 7
      
Never gave up the fight, worked so hard in Chelsea's fightback. Excellent again.

        Tammy Abraham 7
      
Unwittingly deflected first Ajax goal past his own keeper, tried so hard to make amends.

        Substitutes
      
James for Alonso, 46 mins; 6
Hudson-Odoi for Mount 60 mins; 6
Batshuayi for Kovacic, 87 mins; 6
Onana 7; Mazraoui 6, Veltman 6, Blind 7, Tagliafico 7; Van de Beek 7, Martinez 7, Ziyech 7; Promes 7, Neres 6, Tadic 6.
