
# Daniel James admits he was star-struck meeting Man Utd team-mates and Ryan Giggs

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:55:32+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/daniel-james-admits-star-struck-20786186)

Daniel James has admitted he was 'a bit star-struck' when he first met his Manchester United teammates and Wales boss Ryan Giggs.
The 21-year-old joined the Red Devils from Championship club Swansea for £15million over the summer and has made an impressive start to life at Old Trafford.
He has also been a regular in the Wales national team under former United legend Ryan Giggs, earning eight caps and finding the net twice.
And the winger said that he had similar reactions when he first started working with both his international manager and other members of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's squad.
Asked how he adjusted to working with Giggs, James told JD Football's #TalkingTekkers , "At the start you are a bit star-struck. It was the same when I went into United.
"It was weird being in the changing room at the start because you talk about these players all the time and then you are there.
"Being a footballer you treat everyone the same. It's the same when people ask you for autographs or pictures and you think you are just a normal person. You can't be too star-struck."
After three goals in his first four Premier League appearances, James has established himself as a important member of Solskjaer's first team, missing just one game in all competitions.
And although he has become a regular starter much quicker than many - even himself - expected, James insists his original target of reaching double figures for goals has remained the same.
"The plan for the season for me was to play as many games as possible," he added.
"I came to United maybe thinking I could be a fringe player. I wanted to try and get in the team as quick as I could but I thought it may take a bit more time.
"I got chucked in a lot earlier than I thought. But I was ready for it. I worked hard during the summer. It was about proving people wrong and showing what I can do.
"But now I have started to play I have to change that. Coming in, I set my goal to get ten goals. I scored three in four and people said to me, 'Are you going to change those goals now?'
"But I said, 'I haven't reached that yet so I'm not going to change those goals'."
