
# South Africa's World Cup triumph leaves store £200,000 lighter - and hundreds of fans richer

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:28:39+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Pyatt**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/south-africas-world-cup-triumph-20802307)

South Africa's biggest online store was left counting the cost after the Springbok’s victory over England cost them over £200,000 and left hundreds of rugby fans delighted.
Takealot had promised anyone who bought a Samsung TV before the Rugby World Cup kicked off that they would get their money back in full if South Africa lifted the trophy.
Now 346 customers who took up the offer and bought a TV are in for a £206,000 windfall as the company declared at the final whistle that they will honour the deal.
Takealot’s Chief Marketing Officer Julie-Anne Walsh said: “The Boks triumphed over the English and we are celebrating along with the country and now 346 of our shoppers!
 
“They bought Samsung TV’s as part of our Rugby World Cup promotion and will all be getting their money back in full so it not just the Bok’s who were the winners,” she said.
South African ran out 32-12 winners in the final with scrum half Faf de Klerk starring.
After the game, he said: "Obviously I'm unbelievably happy, so glad we can do it for the country and for ourselves. It means a lot to us.
"We just exploited them out wide a bit. We've got great wingers and great outside backs and in the second half we just said our backline must take their backline on and they came through.
"And once again a massive performance from our boys up front. They gave me great ball and they give the backs so much time on attack."
Skipper Siya Kolisi added: "Since I have been alive I have not seen South Africa like this. It was like in '95."
