
# First picture of toddler who fell to death through 'faulty' tower block window

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:21:04+00:00**

Author: **Berny Torre, William Janes, Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/first-picture-toddler-who-fell-20808556)

The heartbroken mum of an 18-month-old boy who died after falling 100ft from a window in his home has demanded a full investigation.
Devastated Duygu Agac has spoken of her grief after son Ali died in the tragedy on Thursday.
She said the window at in the block of flats in Tottenham, north London, was faulty and work to repair it hadn't been done.
Ms Agac told the Evening Standard she reported a problem with the handle to Haringey Council and it was due to be sorted out this week.
Ali died from his injuries after falling onto a canopy over the front entrance to Stellar House.
 
Ms Agac, who described Ali as a "wonderful boy" said: “They were due to come and fix it this week.
"When they came, they closed the window but the handle didn’t lock.
"We want a full investigation.”
Emergency services, including an air ambulance, were called to the scene just before 10am.
But Ali died in hospital around 90 minutes later.
Shocked neighbour Meral Dervish, 51, said 27-year-old mum of two Duygu called her in tears.
 
She said: “He opened a window, he fell down. The window, it was faulty.
"For nearly two months she was calling the council just to come to fix it.
“The handle was not secure. They were coming to fix it, but then this happened.
"She was crying, she was shocked yesterday. She was complaining about this."
Meral added: “He was a very nice boy.
"The mum was looking after the kids brilliantly, she was caring for her children.”
Zina Etheridge, Haringey Council's chief executive, said: “We are aware of a tragic incident of a young child falling from height in Tottenham, and our deepest sympathies are with the family at this time.
"The police are currently investigating and it would be inappropriate for us to comment further until more is known.”
A Met Police spokesman said: "Officers, the London Ambulance Service, London’s Air Ambulance and the London Fire Brigade attended and found the baby boy in a critical condition.
"The child, believed to be aged 18 months, was taken to a north London hospital where he was pronounced dead at 11.39am.
"Formal identification and a post-mortem examination will take place in due course."
He said that no arrests have been made and officers are continuing to investigate.
