
# Skip Black Friday Lines With These Fashion Deals 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Finds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/05/skip-black-friday-lines-with-these-fashion-deals/)

Black Friday and Cyber Monday are the biggest shopping holidays of the year, and they still draw in a huge percentage of the population. However, over the past few years, consumers have started their holiday shopping in the weeks leading up to Black Friday and Cyber Monday in an effort to get an early start. To meet this demand, retailers are looking to breakthrough the tons of sales offered during these peak promotional days and, with consumers becoming increasingly sophisticated and fickle shoppers, they will take time to research the products they want to buy to find them at the most favorable price. In the modern consumer landscape, November 1 marks the true start to the holiday shopping season. This trend is even more apparent amongst higher-end brands, which, unlike their mass-market counterparts, tend to run their discount offers earlier in the season.
So, why wait for Black Friday discounts for a great deal? Here are three of this season’s hottest trends that are on sale now.

        Dominatrix-Inspired “Denim”
      
From Alexander Wang and Dion Lee to Marni and Victoria Beckham, high-shine pieces have dominated runways recently. There are many ways to incorporate this textile into your wardrobe — such as a Matrix-inspired long-length leather coat or a sleek pencil skirt. However, you also can embrace a more toned-down version of this look to stay on-trend.
Jeans are a modern-day wardrobe staple but wearing them every day can get a little boring. To give an effortless lift to your seasonal wardrobe, try out these coated denim pieces for a subtle shine to elevate any outfit.

        
          BlankNYC Denim Coated Overalls
        
      
Originally priced at $128, now on sale for $49.97

        
          Coated Skinny Jeans
        
      
Originally priced at $45, now on sale for $35.99
Originally priced at $128, now on sale for $77.

        
          Shop Now
        
      

        On The Prowl
      
Forget hibernation, the animal print trend shows no signs of slowing down. Fully embraced in the fashion community, from editors to buyers to Instagram influencers, this attention-grabbing pattern continues to fill our social media feeds and retailers’ sites for the upcoming holiday season.
This print can either be the focus of an outfit or easily integrated into a more toned-down look when paired with other staple wardrobe pieces. Swap out your solid-colored sweater for this one to add an eye-catching element to your everyday winter look. Or, choose to layer a lighter weight item, such as this leopard-printed maxi dress, with a leather jacket or chunky sweater over the top to add an on-trend element to your cold weather-appropriate outfit.

        
          INC International Concept Animal-Print Maxi Dress
        
      
Originally priced for $99.50, now on sale for $49.
Originally priced at $228, now on sale for $114.

        
          Shop Now
        
      

        Rich Textures
      
Textural elements – from faux fur and shearling to satin and velvet – have found themselves on the runways, store shelves, and on the shoulders of celebrities and influencers in a plethora of street style photos. This trend allows you add intrigue to any simple outfit, making every look a little more luxurious. Reimagine your outerwear options in these fabrics and brighten up your wardrobe for the festive season ahead.
Try out this faux fur vest with a chunky-knit sweater and jeans for milder weather days and this bold, red crushed velvet jacket, to pair with any neutral outfit, for a stylish, on-trend statement to that is sure to get you into the holiday spirit.

        
          INC International Concepts Camo Faux-Fur Utility Vest
        
      
Originally priced at $159.50, now on sale for $95.70.

        
          Jessica Simpson Faux Fur Lined Coat
        
      
Originally priced at $225, now on sale for $69.97.
 
