
# How Two Startups Will Spend Six-Figure Prize From Under 30 Summit Pitch Competition

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Katherine Love**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/katherinelove/2019/11/04/how-two-startups-will-spend-six-figure-prize-from-under-30-summit-pitch-competition/)

A true sign of a strong startup: Executives need not attend. An account manager and quality assurance representative did the work of persuasive pitching to investors who stopped by the Autobooks booth at the 2019 Forbes Under 30 Summit. Their words were enough to put the Detroit-based small business payment and accounting platform into the top five exhibiting companies vying for $250,000 and a media prize package in the conference’s Startup Pitch Competition.
In tandem with hearing insights from a robust speaker line-up, a key opportunity for young entrepreneurs attending Forbes’ largest annual event is a startup showcase. This year’s Summit hit record attendance, with more than 9,000 people convening at the Masonic Temple in Detroit October 27-30. Of those, 577 came to exhibit their businesses, staffing 154 booths for the perusal of venture capitalists, Forbes 30 Under 30 listmakers, fellow founders and conference-goers of all stripes. 
Namely among those passing through: 38 partners, analysts and associates from 33 venture firms, such as Ben Mathews of Bessemer Venture Partners in San Francisco, Christian Arnstedt of Blazar Capital in Copenhagen and Divya Dhulipala of TrueBridge Capital Partners in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. These field experts heard pitches at startup booths, in one-on-one meetings and speed-pitching sessions and at a Founders & Funders happy hour, all before selecting the top five who would pitch before a large audience and all-star judges.
“We were all really happy to be there exhibiting, let alone make the top five,” said Chloë Cheyenne, founder and CEO of CommunityX, a California-based mobile app for creating and scaling social impact causes. “It was a really exciting moment for us,” the 28-year-old said of waking up with her toddler several hours after the 1:30 a.m. email arrived listing the finalists.
Come noon, the top five had readied their spiel for an audience of 1,000 and four judges: ThirdLove Cofounder and CEO Heidi Zak, Rock Ventures Executive Vice-President Dhani Jones, Shutterstock Founder and CEO Jon Oringer and Yale University’s Sterling Professor of Economics Robert J. Shiller, plus emcee Randall Lane, Chief Content Officer at Forbes Media. 
While various members of Autobooks’ 65-person team had successfully played the part in the exhibiting round, Executive Vice-President of Enterprise Growth Kyle Bazzy took the stage for the finale. Making up the other three spots, in addition to Cheyenne of CommunityX, were Austin Denha who cofounded Divorce AI, a reporting tool for understanding the financial implications of a spousal split, Phaedra Randolph, who is founder and CEO of Spero Foods, maker of plant-based dairy and egg products, and Will Foussier, cofounder and CEO of executive coaching platform AceUp.
After deliberation, NBA All-Star Kevin Durant, cofounder and partner at Thirty Five Ventures, joined the panel for the check presentation. Cheyenne and Bazzy, they decided, would split the quarter-million-dollar sum. 
“Some of the judges made comments about our passion, our energy and our ability to articulate value proposition while also being able to provide not only a great idea but evidence that we have traction,” said Bazzy, who had researched in advance the judges’ past investments and decided to focus his stage time on what impact Autobooks would make with the prize money on top of its $23 million raised since launch in 2016. 
“We’d really like to highlight some of the small business stories that we see day in and day out around the impact this is having on people’s lives,” he said, envisioning paying for travel and media equipment to show how the platform keeps small businesses alive. “We have these stories we want to share about how people were going to go back to corporate or do something they don’t love in life because they couldn’t handle running the business.”
For Cheyenne’s part, CommunityX is three years younger than Autobooks, having raised $100,000 from family and friends and debuting in app stores this past September. As a result of the Summit, she is noticing pay-off in the form of user generation, predicting the Forbes exposure will drive month two growth higher than the 1,000 app downloads tallied post-launch.
The graduate of Howard University, formerly with Google, plans to put the six-figure windfall toward growing her team of five or toward product development of a premium crowdfunding feature to roll out in early 2020.
