
# Police officer charged with murder of Dalian Atkinson

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:40:41+00:00**

Author: **Vikram Dodd**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2019/nov/07/police-officer-charged-with-murder-of-dalian-atkinson)


        Second constable facing charge of actual bodily harm after death of former footballer
      
A police constable has been charged with murdering Dalian Atkinson in a clash during which a stun gun and other force was used on the former footballer.
Atkinson, who played for Aston Villa and Manchester City, died, aged 48, after the fracas outside his father’s home in Telford, Shropshire, in the early hours of 15 August 2016.
The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said on Thursday that two officers, both police constables with the West Mercia force, were facing charges. One had been charged with murder, which carries a sentence of life imprisonment, and also faced an alternate charge of manslaughter. The other had been charged with assault causing actual bodily harm.
Neither officer has been named.
The incident was investigated by the police watchdog after officers from the West Mercia force used a Taser as they tried to detain Atkinson, and other force.
The Independent Office for Police Conduct then referred the case to the CPS in October 2018 to consider whether any criminal charges should be brought.
The IOPC had previously said of its inquiry: “The investigation gathered evidence which indicates that police contact with Mr Atkinson involved the use of a Taser, followed by a period of restraint and other uses of force.”
It is rare for an officer to face a charge of murder for their actions while performing their duties.
The incident happened while Atkinson, who lived nearby, was visiting his father in Meadow Close, Telford. A neighbour telephoned the police and officers were called to the scene at 1.30 am. Atkinson was pronounced dead 90 minutes later in hospital.
Jenny Hopkins, of the CPS, saidAtkinson’s family had been informed of the charges.
“This decision was made following a careful review of all the evidence presented to us by the Independent Office for Police Conduct following an investigation,” she said.
Atkinson started his career at Ipswich Town and played for Sheffield Wednesday and Real Sociedad before moving to Villa.
At Villa he scored more than 20 goals in the top flight of English football between 1991 and 1995 before going on to play less successfully for teams including Fenerbahçe and Manchester City.
In cases involving death after contact with the police, both the families of the victims and the officers complain about the length of time it takes to investigate and decide on any charges.
Those involved in this case face a further wait until criminal trials next year.
Kate Maynard, the solicitor for the Atkinson family, said: “Dalian’s family welcomes the decision to put the conduct of police officers before a jury but regrets that already more than three years have passed since Dalian died.
“They ask for their privacy to be respected and press for the criminal proceedings to progress without delay or obstruction.”
The West Mercia chief constable, Anthony Bangham, said: “Our thoughts continue to remain with the family and friends of Dalian Atkinson at this difficult time.
“We understand the need for answers. However, as court proceedings are now under way it would not be appropriate for us to make any further comment regarding the circumstances of Mr Atkinson’s death.
“The officers involved have a right to a fair trial and we will continue to make sure they have the appropriate support throughout the forthcoming criminal justice process.”
When asked if the officers had been suspended, a West Mercia police spokesperson said: “There will be a process around the officers’ duty status following the CPS decision today.”
Derrick Campbell, of the IOPC, said: “We appreciate the patience shown by all concerned during our thorough and independent investigation and the period it was with the CPS for consideration. We have kept Mr Atkinson’s family, West Mercia police, and the coroner informed throughout.”
Deborah Coles of Inquest, which helps families whose relatives have died after contact with the police, said: “Two years ago, an independent review of deaths in police custody by Dame Elish Angiolini QC highlighted the negative impact of delays in investigations and prosecutions like this. Angiolini recommended that such cases be dealt with in the same timescales as a civilian homicide case. Clearly there is still much work to be done to meet those standards.”
