
# Scheffler fires 62 for PGA Tour's Bermuda lead

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:50:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Golf/PGATour/scheffler-fires-62-for-pga-tours-bermuda-lead-20191101)

Washington - Scottie Scheffler bogeyed his final hole but still emerged with a one-stroke lead on nine-under par 62 on Thursday after the first round of the PGA Tour's Bermuda Championship.
Scheffler, the 2019 Korn Ferry Tour Player of the Year, teed off on the 10th hole at Port Royal Golf Club in Southampton and played his first nine holes in six-under.
That included an eagle at the par-five 17th. Four more birdies after the turn, including back-to-back birdies at six and seven, Scheffler had a shot at a 59, but he parred the eighth before surrendering a stroke at nine.
"You think about it a little bit," Scheffler said of a chance to break 60.
"The eagle putt on seven was pretty close and then on eight, felt like I hit a pretty good putt, just misread it ... kind of lost a little momentum."
Scheffler, 23, won twice on the developmental Korn Ferry Tour in 2019 and tied for seventh in his first PGA Tour start of the season.
He had a one-shot lead over compatriot Wes Roach, who had eight birdies and an eagle at the par-five seventh along with two bogeys in a 63.
Scotland Russell Knox was tied for third on 64 with Rob Oppenheim and Bo Hoag, with Australian veteran John Senden a further stroke back on 65.
Oppenheim birdied seven of the first eight holes, but parred all of his remaining holes in a seven-under effort.
Like Oppenheim, Knox was among the four players to post a round without a bogey, jump starting his day with four straight birdies from the second through the fifth holes.
This year marks the inaugural edition of the US tour's first tournament in Bermuda. It's being played opposite the WGC-HSBC Champions in Shanghai.

        Leading first round scores on Thursday in the PGA Tour's Bermuda Championship at Port Royal Golf Course in Southampton, Bermuda (USA unless noted, par-71):
      
62 - Scottie Scheffler
63 - Wes Roach
64 - Rob Oppenheim, Bo Hoag, Russell Knox (SCO)
65 - John Senden (AUS)
66 - Beau Hossler, Boo Weekley, Scott Stallings, Chris Baker, Hank Lebioda, Patrick Fishburn, Rafael Campos (PUR), Anirban Lahiri (IND), Harry Higgs
