
# Chris Brown Is Having A Yard Sale

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Isabel Lord**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/isabellord/2019/11/06/chris-brown-is-having-a-yard-sale/)

Today, Chris Brown had a yard sale. It’s an activity many of us are familiar with. Centered around the clearing of closets, age-old storage units, or, in his case, an 8,300-square-foot Tarzana estate, and dumping any unwanted possessions outside for a handful of neighbors to peruse, a conventional yard sale is at once exciting and unimpressive.
Chris Brown’s goes beyond that.
On Tuesday, the singer announced to his 89 million followers that he would be selling “significantly marked-down, high end designer items” at his gated home in Tarzana, listing the address and hours (10 a.m. to 7 p.m. today, Wednesday November 6, though his Twitter implies it’s a two-day affair).
The online announcement—featuring a purple illustration of Brown wearing a baseball cap and hoodie with his head in the clouds (and feet, to be fair)—received over 150,000 likes on Instagram and was simply captioned “DA CRIB...❤️ ”.
The singer is controversial—he was arrested in 2009 after physically abusing then-girlfriend Rihanna—and the property is notable for its own history with the law: shortly after he bought it in 2015, the house was subject to a break-in that resulted in Brown’s aunt getting locked in a closet, according to the LA Times, and just last year, officer’s reportedly seized an illegal pet money from the home.
Regardless, fans started lining up Tuesday night for a chance to buy luxury at yard sale prices, and aerial footage shows at least 12 tents, each with multiple racks of clothing and accessories, dotting a parking lot on the property with a graffitied bus behind.
Shoppers told TMZ that they were being let in 10 at a time, with people spending around $500 for merchandise they believed could be worth thousands. Proceeds will go to a yet-unspecified charity.
