
# Step Right Up! Uncle Ringo’s high-flying circus coming to Marina Bay

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:18:22+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Singapore**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/singapore/lifestyle/step-right-up-uncle-ringo-carnival-high-flying-circus-coming-to-marina-bay-countdown/)

Daredevils, gravity-defying acrobats and flying ballerinas from around the world will converge on Singapore to celebrate the final days of 2019.
Singaporeans can always trust Uncle Ringo to put on the best carnivals, and this year, the organizer’s stepping things up with a show featuring a world-renowned circus. Uncle Ringo, the organizer behind many neighborhood funfairs known from many childhoods, has roped in international talents from the Great Circus of Europe troupe for a massive carnival at the Bayfront Event Space in Marina Bay from Dec. 20  to Jan. 1.
Expect heart-racing stunts by circus pros from places such as Kazakhstan, Romania, and Kenya. Four Colombian daredevils will jump, skip, and vault in giant rotating wheels for a show called Space Wheel before hopping onto motorbikes for a proper Globe of Death at speeds of upward of 70kph. 
If that’s not enough to get the adrenaline pumping, check out another motorbike act by The Skyriders, who will take their two-wheelers onto a wire 7 meters above the ground.
Other acts to look out for are aerial performances, including those by acrobats from The Serik Brothers, who will be suspended 13 meters up.
If a bunch of flying ballerinas is what you fancy, there’s also an aerial ballet act by Duo Nava to check out.
Those catching the circus acts on New Year’s Eve will get to witness specially curated performances, the organizer said.
And what’s an Uncle Ringo carnival without the games and rides? Expect the whole shebang at the Escapade Festival Village right next to the circus grounds.
Tickets to the circus start at S$70 and are on sale now with discounts for advance purchases. Admission to the festival village is free.
FIND ITThe Great Circus of EuropeBayfront Event SpaceDec. 20 to Jan. 11:30pm onwards, except for New Year’s Eve (4pm onwards)
