
# Emmerdale's Andrew Scarborough 'quits after two years' playing character Graham Foster

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:37:29+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Wallis**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/emmerdales-andrew-scarborough-quits-after-20805208)

Andrew Scarborough has reportedly quit Emmerdale after two years of playing Graham Foster.
The actor is set to leave the village in dramatic scenes that will be filmed over the next few weeks and will air in the new year, sources have claimed.
It has also been rumoured that his exit storyline will involve his ongoing feud with ex-lover and businesswoman Kim Tate.
A source recently told the Daily Star On Sunday : "Andrew's been a great addition to the cast and has been involved in some of Emmerdale's biggest storylines since he arrived in the village in 2017."
The telly source added: "So he was never going to leave in the back of a taxi.
"His exit will be huge and will kick start a drama filled and action packed year in the Dales."
In recent Emmerdale action, Graham rejected Kim Tate, which led to her threatening to ruin his new romance with Rhona Goskirk.
As Graham was the person to expose Kim's son Jamie as being the mole that gave police evidence to send her to prison, their bitter feud has many ups and downs.
Graham mysteriously arrived in the village in 2017 and it was soon discovered that he was involved in the death of his wife and child while drink driving.
He's also rumoured to be the biological father of Millie with Andrea Tate.
Graham has played the Dales residents against one another after exposing Nicola King's deception earlier in the year, and he previously admitted that he had even more sinister plans for the village.
Kim returned in October last year and it was clear that she and Graham had a romantic history together and that he was unflinchingly loyal towards her.
Although Graham's exit hasn't been confirmed, rumours suggest his departure will involve a bitter battle.
Mirror Online has reached out to Emmerdale for comment.
Recently, Emmerdale viewers were devastated as Robert said goodbye to husband Aaron Dingle.
In next week's Emmerdale, Aaron is left on the verge of a breakdown when Robert makes another heartbreaking decision.
Liv Flaherty and Victoria Barton fear Aaron is heading for a breakdown as he struggles to cope without his husband.
Aaron is initially filled with hope when Chas explains that she has received a message from Robert in prison.
This means that Vic and Aaron will be prevented from ever seeing Robert again.
The reality of losing her brother suddenly sinks in for Victoria, but how will Aaron cope with the news?

        *Emmerdale airs weekdays on ITV at 7pm with an extra episode on Thursdays at 8pm
      
