
# Angelina Jolie hints she's recovering after 'painful' Brad Pitt divorce as she talks heartache

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:30:05+00:00**

Author: **Lily Waddell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lily-waddell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/angelina-jolie-hints-shes-recovering-20821551)

Angelina Jolie has suggested she is recovering after her "hurtful" divorce from Brad Pitt.
They grabbed the headlines with their romance for 12 wonderful years, two of which the exes were married from 2014 until their split in 2016.
The actress, 44, revealed she's on the path to recovery after seeing the ones she loves "in pain".
Angelina admitted she "wrestled" with her heartache over the divorce as she admitted she had got "hurt".
She told December's  Harper's Bazaar  magazine: "My body has been through a lot over the past decade, particularly the past four years, and I have both the visible and invisible scars to show for it."
Of heartache, she added: "The invisible ones are harder to wrestle with. Life takes many turns. Sometimes you get hurt, you see those you love in pain, and you can’t be as free and open as your spirit desires. It’s not new or old, but I do feel the blood returning to my body."
Elsewhere in the interview, the Maleficent star claimed the Fury actor has stopped her from moving to her dream home abroad.
The duo have three biological children (Shiloh, 13, Vivienne, 11, and Knox, 11) as well as three adopted children (Maddox, 18, Pax, 15, and Zahara, 14).
As they continue to co-parent their children, Angelina talked of the restrictions Brad had put on her being able to move as the couple continue to co-parent their children together.
The actress vowed to move as soon as her youngest child turns 18 but until then she has to remain where she said Brad "chooses to live".
She told the glossy magazine: "I would love to live abroad and will do so as soon as my children are 18. Right now I’m having to base where their father chooses to live."
Their eldest son Maddox is at university abroad in South Korea.
Angelina and Brad's divorce finance battle is ongoing but the couple went public with their split in 2016.
