
# Colchester crash witness describes terror as car ploughs into pub killing man

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:01:44+00:00**

Author: **Amber Hicks, Louise Lazell, Lottie O&#39;Neill, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/colchester-crash-witness-describes-terror-20801454)

A man has described the sheer terror on pub-goers' faces after a car ploughed into the outside smoking area, killing one and leaving three injured.
Police have arrested a man on suspicion of murder following the incident which unfolded just before 1am outside The Spinnaker Pub in Hythe Quay, Colchester.
The venue was packed with about "60 to 70 people" when a white Nissan Qashqai smashed into a small area at the side of the building.
A 36-year-old man was tragically pronounced dead at the scene, reports Essex Live.

        Did you see what happened? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk
      
A 34-year-old man was rushed to hospital with life-changing injures, while two others, a 34-year-old woman and a 33-year-old man, suffered minor injuries.
Eddie, from London, was visiting family nearby when he saw the aftermath.
The 22-year-old said: "I came to visit my family, I was in last night and I heard a bang. I thought it was a lorry that might have dropped over.
"I came out, 10 or 15 minutes after, and see a few people rushing, residents rushing hearing loud noises, people in a panic.
"At first there was two other girls that live down the road and they were helping, trying to get the passenger out of the car.
"There was one woman in the passenger seat they got her out of the car and sat her down on the pavement by the shop and they got her a glass of water - she was in a panic."
He added: "There was a resident saying her room was shaking.
"There were about 60/70 people last night. All crowding.
"I didn’t want to look to be honest, it was horrible.
“You could see inside the car inside the pub.”
Aruben Shan, 41, who works in the convenience store next door, arrived at 7am to see the road blocked.
"I didn’t know then what had happened," he said.
"I asked the police to open the shop and they said no. I was shocked.
"I got in after 9. I do not know who is injured or who is dead. It is heartbreaking."
Ed Hamilton, 19, has also described hearing a "big bang" as he was about to go to sleep.
"It is obviously an awful horrible incident," he said.
A spokesperson for Essex Police confirmed a 40-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder.
In a statement the force said: "We were called shortly after 12.50am today following reports that a white Nissan Qashqai had crashed into The Spinnaker Public House in Colchester.
"Following the collision Hythe Quay was closed for around seven hours and was reopened at around 9am this morning.
"Tragically a 36 year-old man died at the scene.
"A 34 year-old man has been taken to hospital with life changing injures and two others, a 34 year-old woman and a 33 year-old man, were also taken to hospital with minor injuries.
"A 40 year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder, causing Grievous Bodily Harm with intent, death by dangerous driving and assault.
"We would like to speak to any who saw a white Nissan Qashqai in the local area before the incident took place and anyone who was in the pub at the time and has yet to speak to officers."
An Essex County Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson said: “A man has sadly lost his life following a serious road traffic collision in Colchester in the early hours of this morning.
“On arrival, crews reported that one vehicle had left the roadway and collided with a public house.
“Three other people were also injured in the collision.
“Firefighters worked alongside the Ambulance Service to ensure there were no further casualties trapped within the premises, before confirming the building was structurally safe following the impact of the collision.”
