
# Canelo Alvarez KOs Sergey Kovalev to win light-heavyweight world title

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:01:35+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/breaking-canelo-alvarez-kos-sergey-20800753)

Canelo Alvarez produced a devastating KO to beat Sergey Kovalev and win a world title in a fourth different weight division.
The Mexican was jumping up from middleweight to take on the light-heavyweight champion in Las Vegas.
And although Kovalev made the better start, Alvarez came on strongly in the second half of the fight before delivering a sickening KO in the 11th round.
The challenger, who earned a staggering £27million for his efforts, overcame his size disadvantage to add another belt to his collection.
Kovalev attempted to use his size in the opening round as he popped out his jab, albeit to little penetrating effect.
Canelo's body punching was considered a crucial weapon against the susceptible Kovalev and the Mexican looked to utilise that from the second round.
But still the champion controlled proceedings with his jab, much as he did against Britain's Anthony Yarde in August.
Alvarez began to land the left hook in the fourth round but he found the Russian's guard difficult to infiltrate.
He did however increase his work rate as the fight reached the halfway point with the Mexican on the front foot.
But if he was expected to push on into the second half of the bout, it was Kovalev who was the busier of the two as the championship rounds loomed.
Kovalev was almost stopped by Yarde in the ninth round before rallying to stop the Londoner in the penultimate session.
But despite the quick turnaround, he appeared fresh at the same stage against Canelo although the Mexican came on strongly in the 10th.
And after he landed a left hook to the head in the penultimate round, he followed it up with a right hook which sent Kovalev through the ropes.
