
# Voice of the Mirror: Tories claim NHS is safe but our front page shows the truth

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:23:58+00:00**

Author: **Voice of the Mirror, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/voice-of-the-mirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/voice-mirror-tories-claim-nhs-20836432)

When the Tories next claim the NHS is safe in their hands show them a picture of tomorrow’s Daily Mirror front page.
It is a shocking portrayal of the true state of the health service after nine years of Conservative cuts.
Dozens of elderly and frail patients are left stranded on trolleys in an overcrowded emergency room.
Some of them have had to wait more than six hours for treatment.
They include an 88-year-old woman with dementia who had to be rushed to hospital after failing to get a GP appointment.
Despite the heroic efforts of the nurses and doctors, the NHS is not providing the care people need and deserve.
This is not an isolated incident. Similar scenes can be witnessed across the country.
It is the direct consequence of a Tory administration that has cut the number of hospital beds, failed to recruit enough staff and starved the NHS of funds.
Waiting lists are at a record high, operations are routinely cancelled and medicines are rationed.
A health service that was once the envy of the world, famed for the excellence of its staff and for providing world-class treatment, has been betrayed by the Conservatives.
We can still rebuild our cherished NHS but it will never happen if you vote Conservative.
The murder of Jodie Chesney shocked the nation.
An innocent teenage girl was stabbed to death in her local park in a case of mistaken identity.
Her killers were yesterday found guilty and should expect to spend their life behind bars.
For Jodie’s family they will forever grieve the loss of a young woman whose future held so much promise.
What makes this so distressing is it could have been anyone’s daughter in almost any part of lawless Britain.
The attack may have been random but there is nothing random about a society where violence has become commonplace, teenagers brazenly brandish knives and lives are held so cheaply.
Tomorrow we publish our annual guide to the best Christmas sandwiches.
Some are absolute crackers but others turned out to be complete turkeys.
