
# Vape shop owner accused of selling vape products despite statewide ban

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:48:58+00:00**

Author: **Manoella Macedo**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/vape-shop-owner-accused-of-selling-vape-products-despite-statewide-ban/1004150094)

EAST BRIDGEWATER, Mass. - An East Bridgewater vape shop owner was served with a cease and desist order after he was accused of selling vaping products during the statewide ban.
After several people reported to police that Lifestyle Vape, located on 626 Bedford St., continued to sell vape products despite Governor Baker's four-month ban on vaping products, a cease and desist order was delivered to the store on Thursday.
During the month of Oct., residents have filed complaints with local police alleging Lifestyle Vape of not only selling vape products under the ban but of also selling products to minors.
Following the complaints, police launched an investigation into the vape shop.
While conducting surveillance outside the shop on Tuesday, police observed a man leaving the store and then getting in his car.
About 20 minutes later, in an unrelated incident, the man was pulled over by police for failing to stop at a stop sign.
Investigators then learned the man had purchased a vape product from Lifestyle Vape, which was seized as evidence. 
Aside from the cease and desist order, the business could also face fines and other disciplinary action from the town.
The sell of vaping products has been prohibited across the state of Massachusetts since Gov. Baker issued a public health emergency in the state on Sept. 24, banning the sale of e-cigarettes and vaping products for four months.
