
# Woman's simple trick transforms old rusty oven to look 'brand new'

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:10:10+00:00**

Author: **Luke Matthews, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/luke-matthews/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/weird-news/womans-simple-trick-transforms-old-20802102)

Ovens can quickly begin to look tired as baked on food stains, scorch marks and rust take their toll.
Replacing them can prove very costly but one woman has found an ingenious way to breathe new life into her oven without the extortionate costs.
The simple trick also won't leave you on your knees endlessly scrubbing with a metal scouring pad as you work your way through a bottle of oven cleaner.
A member of the Cleaning Tips & Tricks Facebook group posted a photo of her oven, showing the white exterior door had been largely taken over by rust marks and brown stains.
 
Despite looking ready for the scrap heap, the poster was determined to salvage her old oven and give the kitchen a much-needed refresh, as reported by The Sun .
She began by using sand paper to strip back and smooth the surface, before giving the whole thing a new coat of radiator paint - and the results are incredible.
"So proud of myself," she said.
"It’s my oven... I sand it first then I used quick dry radiator enamel paint. And it looks brand new."
 
Other members of the cleaning tips group were equally impressed, with one writing: “Bloody well done! I commented yesterday about the throwaway culture we have.
"This is a fab job and a brilliant oven has a new lease of life."
Another replied: "Brilliant. Make do and mend rather than put on the scrap heap."
A third added: "Just goes to show, paint first, then keep or chuck, worth a try, always."
It's not the only kitchen utility cleaning trick which has gone down a storm online, after a Mrs Hinch fan shared her simple method to transform her mucky washing machine drawer .
After using washing up liquid and an old toothbrush to finely clean it, she wiped it all with bicarbonate of soda and white vinegar to remove the odours and finished it off with 75p Astonish Mould and Mildew spray.
