
# John Cameron Mitchell & Eyelids team for Lou Reed tribute EP (listen to “Waves Of Fear”)

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Bill Pearis**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/john-cameron-mitchell-eyelids-team-for-lou-reed-tribute-ep-listen-to-waves-of-fear/)

Hedwig creator John Cameron Mitchell has teamed with Pacific Northwest indie rock group Eyelids (which includes members of The Decemberists, Guided by Voices and The Jicks) for an EP of Lou Reed covers titled Turning Time Around. Profits from the EP will go towards the care of John’s mother, who is suffering from Alzheimer’s Disease. The EP was produced by REM’s Peter Buck and here’s more from John:
The EP is out December 13 and you can watch an animated video for their version of “Waves of Fear” (from Lou’s 1982 album The Blue Mask) below. As John mentions above, the EP also includes covers of The Velvet Underground’s “I Found a Reason” and Lou’s “Turning Time Around” from his 2000 album Ecstasy. There are three different colored vinyl variants to pre-order in addition to digital versions.
In other news, JCM is doing more “Songs of Hedwig” shows that also benefit his mom’s health care. He was recently interviewed on WBUR’s Here & Now about his new musical podcast, “Anthem: Homunculus,” which is out via Luminary. Bryan Weller, who composed the music, was on as well, and they brought out Ezra Furman to perform Hedwig song “Origin of Love” together (which Ezra also did on Netflix’ Sex Education). You can watch that talk, and the performance, below.
Meanwhile, Eyelids will release new album The Accidental Falls (also produced by Buck) on Valentine’s Day.
