
# ‘Disaster capitalism’ piles on top of California blazes and power outages

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:26:00+00:00**

Author: **Justine Calma**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/10/31/20941785/california-wildfires-disaster-capitalism-power-outages)

Fires raging in San Francisco’s Bay Area and in the greater Los Angeles area have already forced hundreds of thousands of people to evacuate their homes or be stranded without power in preemptive blackouts aimed at stemming new blazes. But as residents check their social media feeds for emergency updates, they’re seeing something more — social media is swimming with promotions for solar power, back-up generators, and air purifiers.
The frenzy has almost become an expected side effect of fire season. “Here in California, in the wealthy tech-heavy region of the Bay, the fires offer a glimpse of an emerging form of disaster capitalism,” Alexis Madrigal wrote for The Atlantic in the midst of historic blazes last year. The idea of “disaster capitalism,” — when industry moves in after a disaster to push an agenda and/or profit off the chaos — has arguably been around since before author Naomi Klein introduced the term in 2007, but it’s become more visible over the past decade. As California’s fire season grows longer and more devastating with the changing climate, “Climate adaptation could look like a million individual products, each precisely targeted on social media to the intersection of a consumer culture and a catastrophe,” Madrigal wrote.
An air purifier that The New York Times’ Wirecutter ripped apart as “the worst air purifier” that it had ever tested, ran ads on social media referencing this year’s fires. The company, Molekule, is using the same playbook they used last year when they posted fire-related ads on Instagram around the same time that the Camp Fire broke records in California for the most death and destruction in the state.
