
# Amitabh Bachchan left blushing by KBC contestant before he recreates scene from film Coolie whose shooting left him clinically dead

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:56:28+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/amitabh-bachchan-left-blushing-by-kbc-contestant-before-he-recreates-scene-from-film-coolie-whose-shooting-left-him-clinically-dead-in-1982/271375/)

Sony TV’s popular quiz show Kaun Banega Crorepati saw its host Amitabh Bachchan walk down memory lane as he recreated a famous dialogue from the film Coolie, which had left him clinically dead in 1982. This was after Bachchan asked one of his contestants to identify an inseparable character from his film.
The question read, “Who is Allah Rakha in the film ‘Coolie’?” The options were ‘an elephant,’ ‘a bird,’ ‘a dog,’ and ‘a child.’ The correct answer was ‘a bird’ and the contestant had little trouble in answering the question.
Bachchan explained, “There was a popular dialogue from the film Coolie. Bachpan se hai sar par Allah ka haath aur Allah Rakha hai mere saath. (I have the blessings of Allah since my childhood because I have Allah Rakha with me).”
Soon after the popular KBC host delivered the famous dialogue from Coolie, the contestant said that he had not seen a single celebrity, who could speak in Hindi with as much ease and confidence as in English. This left the Bollywood megastar blushing.
Bachchan recreating the popular scene from the 1983 hit film evoked a huge round of applause from the KBC audience. Directed by Manmohan Desai and Prayag Raj, Coolie’s screenplay was written by Kader Khan and KK Shukla.
Bachchan had sustained a life-threatening injury during the shooting of the film. While shooting an intense fight sequence with his co-star Puneet Issar at the Bangalore University campus, Bachchan was badly injured after he misjudged the jump and landed abruptly, leaving him severely injured. The edge of the table had hit his abdomen causing massive internal haemorrhage and internal bleeding. He had to be rushed to a hospital in Mumbai, where he had to undergo multiple surgeries. By his own admission, the doctors had declared him clinically dead for a few minutes before placing him on the ventilator. Writing in his blog, Bachchan had once said that he wasn’t responding to any kind of treatment for almost a week.
His fans had taken to temples and mosques praying for his recovery.
Last year, Bachchan had shared the visuals of his homecoming from the hospital. In one video he was seen being welcomed by his emotional parents and children. He was then heard saying, “Today the 24th of September is exactly two months from the date when I was injured and I sit here before you as a result of the efforts of the doctors from (Breach Candy Hospital).”
He went on to resume the shooting of Coolie after staying in the hospital for more than two months. As expected, the film went on to become a huge hit.
