
# Stocks fall as traders question next move in trade war

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/business/stocks-fall-as-traders-question-next-move-in-trade-war-12067434?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Asian shares were little changed on Wednesday as investors awaited new developments toward scaling back a bruising trade war between the United States and China.
TOKYO: Asian shares fell on Wednesday for the first time in four trading sessions as investors awaited new developments that might scale back a bruising trade war between the United States and China.
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan eased 0.12per cent. Australian shares were down 0.55per cent, Chinese stocks fell 0.25per cent, Japan's Nikkei stock index rose 0.21per cent.
The pan-region Euro Stoxx 50 futures were down 0.03per cent, German DAX futures were down 0.06per cent, while FTSE futures were down 0.29per cent.
Treasury yields fell slightly and crude oil futures fell as investors took a breather as U.S. and Chinese negotiators continued their efforts to seal a preliminary trade deal. The world's two biggest economies have signaled they are pushing hard for a 'phase one' trade agreement, possibly some time this month.
The dollar held onto overnight gains against the yen and the euro after better-than-expected data on the U.S. services sector, but some analysts warn it will be difficult to shake lingering concern about the global economic outlook.
"We've had a good run-up, but there may be some consolidation," said Shane Oliver, head of investment strategy and chief economist at AMP Capital Investors in Sydney.
"The trade war is the biggest reason that global growth has weakened over the past 18 months. We would like to see tariffs scaled back. We're still waiting for clearer signs of a resolution."
U.S. stock futures erased earlier losses to inch 0.01per cent higher on Wednesday in Asia after the S&P 500 gave up just 0.01per cent on Tuesday, having reached a record high in the previous trading session.
Traders and investors hope a preliminary Sino-U.S. trade pact will roll back at least some of the punitive tariffs that Washington and Beijing have imposed on each other's goods, but it is still uncertain when or where U.S. President Donald Trump will meet Chinese President Xi Jinping to sign the agreement.
In the onshore market the yuan traded at 6.9930 versus the dollar, approaching a three-month high as currency traders took their cue from hopes for a trade deal.
Treasury prices rose slightly in Asia, recovering from a sell-off on Tuesday after data from the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) showed the U.S. services sector expanded more than expected in October.
The yield on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes fell to 1.8513per cent in Asia on Wednesday, while the two-year yield fell slightly to 1.6207per cent.
A jump in oil prices on Tuesday ran out of steam on Wednesday. U.S. crude fell 0.37per cent to US$57.02 per barrel and Brent crude fell 0.40per cent to US$62.71 per barrel.
Elsewhere in the currency market, the dollar continued to benefit from the positive ISM data.
The dollar traded at 109.06 yen , close to its highest since Aug. 1. The greenback also changed hands at US$1.1076 per euro , approaching its highest level since Oct. 16.
(Editing by Lincoln Feast, Shri Navaratnam and Gerry Doyle)
