
# Kylie Murphy winner helps Wexford Youths retain FAI Women's Cup

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:26:00+00:00**

Author: **By Digital Desk staff**

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/sport/soccer/kylie-murphy-winner-helps-wexford-youths-retain-fai-womens-cup-961515.html)

Wexford Youths are the 2019 So Hotels FAI Women's Cup winners after today's 3-2 win over Peamount United at the Aviva Stadium
Two goals from Lauren Kelly and one from Kylie Murphy sealed the win for the south-east side.
They took the lead in just the fourth minute, the player of the match Kelly's right-footed shot, having won possession, a side-foot into the net beyond Niamh Reid-Burke.
Peamount equalised in the 32nd minute - a deserved leveller having been the better team since going behind - Karen Duggan's shot found the roof of the net after a good move.
However, almost straight from the restart Wexford retook the lead, Kelly with her second to half-volley past Reid-Burke, who really should have saved it.
Seven minutes after the break it was 2-2 after Eleanor Ryan-Doyle picked up the ball in a great position after she was found by a Lucy McCartan pass.
She controlled it with her left foot and smashed it from around 25 yards with her right, the power too much for Ciamh Dolland who saw it go over her head into the top of the goal.
The teams weren't level for long though after Wexford retook the lead for a third time, the winner in the 64th minute coming after a perfectly weighted pass from Ireland star Rianna Jarett sent her captain Kylie Murphy through. Murphy's cleverly-timed run gave Reid-Burke no chance as she slotted the ball into the net to make it 3-2 to Wexford.
Both keepers made good saves from then on to keep it at 3-2. There was a great chance to equalise late for Ryan-Doyle but her shot was well saved by the goalkeeper before Jared could have extended Wexford's lead, but her shot his the post.
It stayed as it was though to confirm Wexford as the champions for the second year in a row.
