
# Rangers yob faces stadium ban after bottle attack on Hibs thug who confronted player Tavernier

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:09:36+00:00**

Author: **Alexander Lawrie**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/rangers-yob-faces-stadium-ban-20825483)

A Rangers yob who threw a bottle at a Hibs fan who had run onto the pitch to confront Ibrox hero James Tavernier is facing a lengthy football ban.
William Brown launched the juice bottle at Cameron Mack after the Hibs thug had run on to the Easter Road pitch during a fiery match between the Easter Road club and Rangers.
The 27-year-old chucked the bottle over 17 rows of spectators in the stadium's south stand after he became enraged at Mack confronting the Gers defender.
The Rangers fan was spotted throwing the plastic missile on to the pitch by a Scottish Ambulance worker and a member of the security team patrolling the stands.
 
Brown, from Shotts, Lanarkshire, was allowed to leave the stadium following the match but was collared by police officers outside the stadium and arrested.
Brown appeared at Edinburgh Sheriff Court on Wednesday where he pleaded guilty to throwing the bottle on to the pitch during the Scottish Premiership match between Hibs and Rangers on March 8 this year.
Fiscal Eilidh Yates told the court Brown was seen launching the bottle from halfway up the stand behind the goal housing Rangers 3500 supporters just as the referee blew the half time whistle during the rowdy game.
Yates said: "At around 8.30pm at the half time whistle the accused was seen by two witnesses throwing a bottle over the heads of 17 rows of spectators and on to the pitch.
"He was sat in the south stand in the away support and was directly in front of the match control room."
The fiscal said the ambulance worker and the security member informed police at what they had seen and Brown was arrested outside the stadium at the conclusion of the match.
Yates said the Crown was seeking a football banning order.
Defence lawyer Philip Templeton said his client had thrown a plastic juice bottle after witnessing Rangers full back Tavernier struggling with Hibs fan Mack.
He said: "This was a game where a fan had ran on to the pitch and confronted a Rangers player.
"The impression that the steward had was Mr Brown was effectively aiming at the fan on the pitch.
"The bottle landed on the concrete footway and did not strike anyone."
Sheriff Peter McCormack heard Brown had been banned from attending regulated football matches since the incident as part of his bail conditions.
The sheriff continued the football ban and deferred sentence to next month for reports and a restriction of liberty assessment to be prepared.
 
Brown admitted to culpably and recklessly throwing a bottle on to the field of play during a Hibs v Rangers match at Easter Road Stadium, Edinburgh, on March 8 this year.
Hibs thug Cameron Mack was jailed after he admitted running on to the pitch during the same game and confronting Rangers player James Tavernier.
Mack, from Port Seton, East Lothian, was caged for 100 days when he pleaded guilty to a breach of the peace offence when he appeared from custody at the capital's sheriff court on April 8 this year.
The Hibs yob was also banned from attending matches for 10 years and told he would be banned from Easter Road for life when he kicked the ball away from Tavernier during the confrontation at the side of the pitch.
The match finished 1-1 with Daniel Candeias scoring for the Ibrox club and Florian Kamberi equalising for Hibs in the second half.
