
# Downs Overcome Spirited Chippa To Advance In TKO

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:48:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/telkom-knockout/telkom-knockout-quarter-final-report-chippa-united-v-mamelodi-sundowns-03-november-2019/666632)


        Telkom Knockout
      
Result Chippa United 2-2 Mamelodi Sundowns (Sundowns won 4-3 on penalties)
Date: 03 November 2019
Venue: Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium
Mamelodi Sundowns became the final side to book their spot in the Telkom Knockout semi-finals after defeating Chippa United on penalties.

        
          Click through the gallery to see images from the TKO encounter.
        
      
The Brazilians made three changes from their loss to Kaizer Chiefs, with goalkeeper Denis Onyango returning from compassionate leave, while Mauricio Affonso got his first start in domestic competitions. Meanwhile, Chippa made four changes, with Nigerian forward Chidi Kwem and William Twala among the alterations.
The Chilli Boys had a bright start after getting the opener in the 13th minute thanks to a composed finish by Kwem inside the box, after Tercious Malepe sent him clear on goal with a defence-splitting pass.
While Sundowns struggled to make an impact at the other end, Norman Mapeza's troops almost doubled their lead with ten minutes remaining of the first stanza after Kwem went clear on goal on the left side of the box but his low curling shot was saved by Onyango..
Sundowns showed a little class in the latter stages of the half, but were unable to profit as Affonso guided his header over the bar with an open net at his mercy, while Gaston Sirino hit the post with a deflected shot.
Pitso Mosimane made a key change just after the break that paid off, as Jose Ali Meza's replacement Phakamani Mahlambi won a penalty for the Brazilians five minutes inside the second stanza. Sirino made no mistake from the spot-kick to level matters.
However, the Chilli Boys restored their lead two minutes before the hour-mark after Silas Maziya's speculative effort on the left channel looped over Onyango and sailed into the far post.
Masandawana worked their back to the game again with 20 minutes remaining after Sirino tapped home a low shot from close range after Tignyemb spilled Thapelo Morena's cross in the six-yards area to complete his brace.
Chippa had a wonderful chance to snatch the winner with 12 minutes remaining after Twala went clear on the right side of the box but he struck his shot over the bar as the encounter went to extra-time.
However, the Chilli Boys were reduced to ten men in the 11th minute of extra-time after Malepe picked up his second yellow card for kicking the ball away.
Despite being a man down, Chippa were able to hold out for the remainder of extra-time to send the clahs to penalties, but it was Sundowns who held their nerve to triumph 4-3.

        Here's how they lined up:
      
Chippa: 30. Tignyemb, 47. Nsabiyumva, 22. Modisane, 20. K.Moyo, 14. E. Moyo, 33. Mahola, 2. Maselesa, 11. Maziya, 40. Twala, 12. Malepe, 15. Kwem.
Subs: 34. Mothwa, 9. R.Manzini, 19. L.Manzini, 23. Reid, 32. Lentjies, 13. Maphangule, 21. Maphanga.
Sundowns: 14. Onyango, 27. Morena, 2. Madisha, 5. Lebusa, 4. Langerman, 13. Mabunda, 8. Kekana, 11. Vilakazi, 10. Sirino, 7. Meza, 9. Affonso.
Subs: 30. Pieterse, 16. Ngcongca, 15. Jali, 17. Mahlambi, 7. Lakay, 40. Coetzee, 21. Mkhulise.
