
# Solihull Moors eyeing five straight home wins in Dagenham and Redbridge clash

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:34:57+00:00**

Author: **Mat Kendrick, https://www.facebook.com/matkendrickjournalist/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/solihull-moors-eyeing-five-straight-17190034)

Solihull Moors are aiming to make home advantage count again when they take on Dagenham & Redbridge in the National League today.
Moors hope to make it five league wins on the spin at the SportNation.bet Stadium this afternoon having beaten Stockport, Wrexham, Sutton and Bromley.
In fact 21 of their 27 points so far this season have come at home.
Their overall points tally matches that of today's opponents and boss Tim Flowers is expecting a challenging match.
”It will be a really tough game, they’re a good side," said Flowers.
"They’ve brought a few players in and they’ve got a very good manager in Peter Taylor.
“Peter is a manager that I played for at Leicester. He’s a very decorated and experienced manager, currently doing an outstanding job at Dagenham.
“We are looking to bounce back from last week’s very late defeat at Maidenhead and keep our impressive home league record going.”
Moors exited the Scottish Challenge Cup in midweek after losing to Rangers Colts 4-3 on penalties after the tie ended in a 3-3 draw.
Darren Carter is expected to be in the squad today after announcing his return from injury with a stunning free-kick goal in that match.
Moors are ninth in the table, one place above today's visitors on goal difference.

        For ticket and admission details visit the official Moors website here
      
