
# Faulty plumbing creates a mess

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/faulty-plumbing-creates-a-mess/articleshow/71930327.cms)

In HBR Layout, sewage water is entering a storm water drain and flowing onto the road Residents of HBR Layout have complained about their woes doubling after the installation of new pipes by the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB).The pipes were laid a few months ago for the underground drain (UGD) connection. However, this led to the sewage chamber being blocked, causing water to leak onto the road. The UGD pipes run parallel to the main storm water drain and chemicals from a treatment plant in the layout are being let into the drain, from where water overflows onto the road after heavy rain, said residents. Vikram Mailar Vijay, general secretary of HBR Layout Resident Welfare Association said, “Sewage enters the drain at the 2nd and 3rd block of the layout and it overflows onto the 5th block when it rains heavily. It looks like the sewage is flushed onto the road. It’s impossible to ride on this road as it becomes slippery from all the muck. “Despite sufficient funds being allocated for the drains, they are not desilted regularly. We called the assistant executive engineer of the ward and they tried to clean it up with just bleaching powder”. Madan Prasad, a resident of the layout, said that even stepping out of the house has become a difficult task, thanks to the flooded streets. “For over a year, we have been complaining about the sewage being let into the storm water drain, but no action has been taken to rectify it. The corporator said that the sewage chamber was blocked at certain parts of the layout and that is why he had to let the sewage into the storm water drain, but only as a temporary solution,” he said. The residents have also been demanding that the height of the fence be increased so that people do not throw garbage into the drains. George KX, president of the association, said, “The fence that was put up has rusted and the walls are damaged at several places. This has made it convenient for people to throw waste.” Residents have also observed that the drainage issues have worsened after 900 mm and 1,200 mm pipes were recently laid at a service road that runs parallel to the main storm water drain. Sasi Nair, a resident of 7th Main Road of the layout said, “The UGD pipes were laid six months ago and the overflow of the drain has been happening only recently after heavy rains. The sewage has entered into the sump tank of many residents and they had to get a chlorine treatment done to clean their water. The stench from the hazardous chemicals is unbearable and many have also complained about irritation in their eyes. We have been filing complaints to the BBMP, corporator, Mayor and BWSSB, but all in vain. They come, dig and close the complaint but no permanent solution has been sought for this.” Manjunath, Assistant Executive Engineer, BWSSB, blamed the rains for delay in completion of the work. “We are working on fixing the issue and it should be completed by November-end. The residents have connected all their water lines to the underground drain (UGD) lines. So, when it rains heavily, it overflows. We have asked them to disconnect the connection to the UGD line and we have taken steps to ensure that sewage does not enter the main storm water drain,” he said.
