
# 'Pati Patni Aur Woh' trailer: Kartik Aaryan's situational comedy of trying to impress Ananya Panday and Bhumi Pednekar at the same time is hilarious

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:57:02+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/pati-patni-aur-woh-trailer-kartik-aaryans-situational-comedy-of-trying-to-impress-ananya-panday-and-bhumi-pednekar-at-the-same-time-is-hilarious/articleshow/71888857.cms)

After a long wait, the makers of Kartik Aaryan, Bhumi Pednekar and Ananya Panday's upcoming film 'Pati Patni Aur Woh' have finally released the trailer of the film.
The two minute forty-three seconds trailer which revolves around the life of Kartik aka Chintu Tyagi is sure to leave you in splits as the young actor managed to weave his magic once again. Joining him are Bhumi and Ananya, who have proven their acting skills on the celluloid earlier as well.
The trailer of the film showcases the plight of Chintu Tyagi as he tries to impress his wife Bhumi as well as his crush Ananya. The film is a comical take on extra-marital affairs and the millennial trio manages to leave us impressed with their performance.
Every man out there will relate so hard with Kartik aka Chintu Tyagi’s life and his roller-coaster ride. The trailer shows how he is happy and content with his ‘Patni’ Bhumi but then the ‘Woh’ of his life enters and the fun game starts. Right from quirky one-liners to the peppy numbers, Pati Patni Aur Woh trailer offers everything that a masala entertainer requires. Check out the super hilarious trailer here:
Adding an extra punch with his witty sense of humour, Aparshakti Khurana manages to steal in the thunder in a few scenes. Not only that but Kartik, who rose to fame because of his famous monologues, gives the audience another one as the trailer starts with a monologue.
Talking about the film, director Mudassar Aziz said, "It was amazing to direct this talented bunch of actors like Kartik, Bhumi & Ananya. They are so perfect with their craft and that made it easy for me. We have tried to live up to the expectations and I hope the audiences love our film. We have put in our hard work and we hope it pays off well."
Directed by Mudassar Aziz 'Pati Patni Aur Woh' is a remake of 1978 Hindi film with the same name which featured Sanjeev Kumar, Vidya Sinha and Ranjeeta Kaur in pivotal roles. The film is slated to hit the screens on 6th December this year.
