
# David Beckham watches fireworks with Harper, Brooklyn and Cruz but Victoria and Romeo miss out

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:17:28+00:00**

Author: **Lily Waddell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lily-waddell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/david-beckham-watches-fireworks-harper-20821641)

David Beckham wowed his kids Harper, Brooklyn and Cruz with a "fun night of fireworks".
The happy dad, 44, ensured they had the best view from the rooftop of Television Centre in White City, London on Bonfire Night on Tuesday.
They cuddled up close for a sweet family photograph, offset by the bright fireworks going off in the background.
Clearly having a great time, David shared a montage of videos from the rooftop with three of his children onto his Instagram page.
However, the former footballer admitted he was missing his absent son Romeo and his wife Victoria on the special occasion.
He wrote alongside a snap of the four Beckhams: "Fun night of fireworks .. We miss you RoRo @romeobeckham & mummy @victoriabeckham ."
In a heart-warming clip, Harper could be heard gushing over the fireworks as she lookd on in admiration. "Look at the fireworks," she said.
Harper had her arm fastened around her dad's neck showcasing their close bond.
It is not known where Victoria or Romeo were on Bonfire Night.
The famous family were straight back on the social scene in London after spending Halloween in Los Angeles.
Victoria remained in the UK while David took the children to Los Angeles for half term.
Harper had enjoyed a magical spell of trick-or-treating at newly weds Justin and Hailey Bieber's home, in Los Angeles.
David wrote of their trip on Instagram: "Thanks @justinbieber & Haileybieber someone got her snow cone."
