
# 'The evidence' - Pep Clotet on controversial penalty, referee Andrew Madley and if he will appeal Harlee Dean red card

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Dick, https://www.facebook.com/blueswriterbriandick/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/the-evidence-pep-clotet-controversial-17191519)

 Pep Clotet refused to blame referee Andrew Madley for his team’s 4-2 defeat at Cardiff City.
The Birmingham City caretaker head coach admitted he will review Harlee Dean’s red card - but refused to point the finger at the official.
Instead, he conceded his own team’s poor finishing meant they did not have the cushion they deserved after a dominant opening period.
Here’s the transcript from his press conference.   
It was a game with a little bit of everything, a lot of emotion, a lot of intensity.
For us, we feel we  leave Cardiff without receiving what we deserve.
I think the big difference between both teams was the way Cardiff had all the luck when it comes to transforming those chances - and we didn’t.
We knew it was a very tough place, it was a very difficult game for us because it’s very easy to get sucked into Cardiff’s football and make it very difficult for yourself.
But I think the players in the first half started very well and put out the football we wanted and created a lot of chances - in total 25 shots on goal - and we still only managed to score two goals.
 
It’s a platform for us to understand we need to make sure we put the game to bed as soon as we can. That’s the reality.
As soon as Cardiff had the opportunity to get back into the game on that penalty, they took it.
That was probably the difference, they took all the opportunities they had to get back into the game and for us it was hard work because we had to build a lot to make chances.
But the first half that I saw is the way I want Birmingham City to play.
The fourth official told us in the game it was a pull in the box. It was difficult for me to see if the evidence is there.
We are in a position the only thing we can do is carry on with any decision he takes and be prepared.
 
I was less comfortable with the fact I wanted our team to be able to transform into more goals the chances that we had.
Obviously I think being a referee is a very difficult game, the only thing we need to demand from them is every decision we  make is very, very clear because every decision changes games and changes results.
I will look at it, I am going to watch it again when I watch the game back this evening - and tomorrow I am going to watch all the situations and see every major decision and component of what happened in the game.
I want to see what happened from a tactical side and see that incident with Harlee to see if anything can be done.
It was difficult to see live because it was far away.
 
Yes, because I think we had the chances, we had the goal, we had a very clear chance from Dan Crowley and hit the post.
I don’t mean luck that we need something unbelievable to score but that defined the difference.
Dan Crowley hit the post, it hits the back of the ‘keeper and it goes out. How many times have you seen it hits the post, hits the ‘keeper and goes in?
These little things.
 
At the end of the day we had this one, Jude had a good shot with a good combination inside the box and Jukey had a good turn that the ‘keeper had a fantastic save.
 I would say from those four very clear chances I would take two. I think we created a lot of problems to Cardiff City, especially the first half.
Second half they are one man  less it’s more difficult to create problems because you end up dropping and defending the box especially if you  have the lead.
That makes it more difficult, that’s why we wanted to go wide, go around them and try to attack the box from the sides, that was very difficult because Cardiff feel very confident defending the box.
They have a lot of height and a lot of talent defensively.
