
# T.I. Takes His Daughter To The Gyno To “Check Her Hymen” & Twitter Is Horrified

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:45:10+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/ti-takes-his-daughter-to-the-gyno-to-check-her-hymen-twitter-is-horrified-19302474)

Most visits to the gynecologist are private between a patient and their doctor, but rapper T.I. takes his daughter to the gynecologist to "check her hymen" on an annual basis. The musician — whose real name is Clifford Harris Jr. — dropped this shocking revelation during an an appearance on the Nov. 5 episode of the Ladies Like Us podcast and the backlash has been swift. (Bustle has reached out to reps for both T.I. and his daughter, Deyjah Harris, about his comments, but has not received a response.)
T.I. admitted to "yearly drops to check her [his daughter's] hymen" after hosts Nazanin Mandi and Nadia Moham asked if he had the "sex talk" with his eldest daughter, 18-year-old Deyjah Harris. "Yes, I go with her," he added. The rapper apparently began this annual tradition the day after Harris' sixteenth birthday. As he told Mandi and Moham, on their first visit the day, he went into the exam room with his daughter and was present when the doctor made Harris sign a waiver "so we can share information." He then jokingly asked his daughter, "Is there anything you would not want me to know?"
Though he insisted that doctors informed him that it is possible for someone to break their hymen in ways other than sexual penetration, "like bike riding, athletics, horseback riding, and just other forms of athletic physical activity," T.I. said he didn't care. "Look, Doc, she don’t ride no horses, she don’t ride no bike, she don’t play no sports," the rapper recalled responding, "Just check the hymen, please, and give me back my results expeditiously." He then added, "I will say, as of her 18th birthday, her hymen is still intact."
In response, social media users were quick to call out the rapper for having his daughter's hymen analyzed — a violating, and ineffective routine. In addition, many also pointed out that a broken hymen isn't an indication of sexual activity.
