
# Emmerdale's Kim Tate tipped to murder Graham Foster in deadly exit twist

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:37:12+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/emmerdales-kim-tate-tipped-murder-20810727)

Emmerdale viewers are convinced Kim Tate will murder her ex Graham Foster after new scenes saw her continue her fury over his apparent betrayal.
Kim was not happy to learn Graham had started a romance with Rhona Goskirk, amid her hopes of them reconciling.
Graham refused to be tormented by Kim who seemed intent on ruining his hopes of love, after he chose Rhona over her - before dropping a further bombshell about her son Jamie Tate.
He left them torn apart as he revealed it was Jamie who gave the police the evidence they needed to send her to prison, ending their partnership of sorts for good in the process for the time being.
In Monday's episode of the ITV soap, Graham assured Rhona anything Kim tried to split them up would not work.
 
As Rhona feared the consequences of getting involved with Graham, given his past with Kim, Kim suggested she and Graham could still be business partners - but fans were not convinced as she chillingly added he would be "finished" if he crossed her again.
Viewers are convinced this could lead to Graham's demise after confirmation the character is leaving the Dales.
It's said his exit will be "huge" and will set up the year ahead when he departs the village in 2020.
Predicting Kim would be involved and might even kill him after his betrayal in her eyes, viewers shared their theories on Twitter .
One fan said Kim could join forces with newcomer Will Taylor, with Will and Kim killing Graham together, while one tweet read: "Graham is going to be killed off isn't he."
Another tweeted: "I really like graham and be interesting to see how you leave I’ll be disappointed if Kim kills you off."
A third said: "Don’t trust Kim and watch your back Graham."
Others predicted Kim's business partner Al Chapman might be involved too.
A source told Daily Star On Sunday of the news: "Andrew's been a great addition to the cast and has been involved in some of Emmerdale's biggest storylines since he arrived in the village in 2017."
The telly source added: "So he was never going to leave in the back of a taxi.
"His exit will be huge and will kick start a drama filled and action packed year in the Dales."

        Emmerdale airs weeknights at 7pm on ITV, with an extra episode at 8pm on Thursdays.
      
