
# Putting record straight and Matheus Pereira doing it on a cold night in Stoke - West Brom talking points

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:52:03+00:00**

Author: **Paul Suart, https://www.facebook.com/West-Brom-reporter-Paul-Suart-1706553162899720/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/stoke-west-brom-pulis-record-17202405)

West Brom head to Hull on Saturday top of the Championship after a 2-0 victory at Stoke on Monday night.
An early Matt Phillips strike, coupled with a second-half Hal Robson-Kanu penalty, put Stoke to the sword.
Sports writer Paul Suart took home these findings from a win that could hardly have been more rudimentary.
In beating Stoke, Albion established something we probably already knew. They ARE the best away team in the division. Certainly on current form.
The Baggies have now amassed 17 points on the road, two more than Swansea, despite having played one more away game than the Welsh club.
 
It’s not as if it’s been an easy start. They’ve already ticked off trips to Leeds, Fulham, Nottingham Forest and QPR - four of the present top nine.
Under Slaven Bilic , Albion exhibit a blend of qualities that make them very unwelcome guests.
They can sit in, retain a solid defensive structure and frustrate the hosts, who carry the onus to attack. But they also have players in midfield to dictate the tempo and in the final third they pose real problems, either on the break or from patient build-up.
Albion can hammer home these points when they travel to a Hull team bristling with confidence after three straight wins.
Slaven Bilic revealed in his pre-match press briefing just how much homework went into the signing of Matheus Pereira over the summer.
He watched countless videos of the Brazilian playing for Nuremberg last season, on loan from Sporting Lisbon, and formed the view he had the skill-set and personality to succeed  in the rough and tumble of the Championship.
“I remember watching him in games in February when there is snow around, so it’s not like Brazil, and he looked great,” Bilic said.
 
“They were losing, it was 2-0 for the opponent, and then it became 2-1, and he was the one saying ‘come on guys’. So not only the quality, but his attitude and mentality was correct as well.”
But can he do it on a cold Monday night in Stoke? The ‘ultimate test’ for any foreign import. He sure didn’t go missing, a criticism levelled at some overseas players in the past, but was well below par.
Bigger (and colder) challenges await, and although he flunked his first examination you’d back Pereira to be a man for all seasons and all comers.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
There was a time, not all that long ago, when the Britannia ruled the waves in this fixture.
It didn’t matter how well the Baggies played, home or away, they just couldn’t find a result against Stoke. West Brom suffered a torrid sequence where they won only one of 34 meetings. And then it all changed.
Somewhat ironically - given the cheeky chants of ‘Tony Pulis, he’s coming for you’ from the away end in reference to Stoke’s need for a new manager able to fight what is fast becoming an inferno in the Potteries - it was the Welshman who got the ball rolling.
Under Pulis, who just loves beating his former clubs, the Baggies began to even the score with a 1-0 win in March 2015.
 
Albion have now won seven of their last 10  against the Potters, losing only one. Little surprise the defeat came under the wretched reign of Alan Pardew.
Darren Moore did the double over Stoke last season and Bilic has started as he means to go on against a club that has developed into a genuine rival in recent times.
Gareth Barry finally signed on the dotted line for Albion a few hours before kick-off after a financial issue with Everton was resolved.
Bilic wants him to play two or three Under-23s games before he can be considered for selection for the first team.
He’d better hurry up and get those match minutes in his legs because Albion’s first-choice central midfield pairing are on the brink of a one-game ban.
Jake Livermore picked up his fourth booking in five games to equal Romaine Sawyers’ tally of cautions.
One more for either player before the 19th league fixture, against Preston on December 2, and they’ll be sitting a game out.
