
# ‘Like Her Outside Politics’: Clinton Taunted Over Claims ‘Aliens Seized’ Rudy Giuliani’s Brain

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:49:34+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/us/201911071077244013-like-her-outside-politics-clinton-taunted-over-claims-aliens-seized-rudy-giulianis-brain/)


        Clinton has confirmed having long known “tough guy” Rudy Giuliani, currently a White House attorney, but suggested he has gone through sweeping changes, ambiguously adding, after a pause, he could have been somehow “pushed".
      
During the CBS Late Late Show on Tuesday, Trump’s 2016 rival cheekily shared that she believes “aliens have seized” the brain of POTUS’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani, who has emerged as a key figure in the House’s impeachment inquiry.
James Corden was the first to bring him up during the airing as “a key player in [the impeachment inquiry]", suggesting Clinton has known him well since her tenure as a New York senator, and he appeared to be right.
“Totally! Look, he was a tough guy, he was a mayor, he was mayor during 9/11 when I was a senator. I worked with him", she started off before suggesting that something has come over him of late:
“For example, he said: 'Hillary Clinton was never at Ground Zero. I never saw her'. Of course, the internet started putting pictures of me standing next to him. So I’m looking at that and I’m thinking: 'Truly, he’s been possessed'", Hillary shared, adding she doesn’t know when it happened but suggesting he might have been impacted in one way or another:
Corden immediatedly leapt at the chance to suggest doing it on the show:
Clinton’s irony met a similarly cheeky approach on the internet, with one suggesting in response that her “soul [has been seized] by the devil".
