
# Iraq: Protesters Storm Iranian Consulate in Karbala

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:52:18+00:00**

Author: **John Hayward**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/national-security/2019/11/04/iraq-protesters-storm-iranian-consulate-karbala/)

Three of the protesters were reportedly killed by security forces during the incident, while five more were killed in Baghdad on Monday.
Karbala is a city of great significance to Shia Islam, the dominant religion of Iran. It has also been the scene of some of the most violent protests and security responses in the current Iraqi political crisis, in which Iran’s influence over Iraqi politics is a point of contention along with corruption, poverty, and the poor quality of public services.
The people who attacked the Iranian consulate in Karbala were clearly angry at Tehran’s meddling in Iraq. Among other acts of vandalism, they spray-painted “Kabala is free, Iran out, out!” on the walls. 
The Iraqi Foreign Ministry condemned the attack on the Karbala consulate, denouncing it as a “red line that should not be crossed.”
Protesters angry at Iran received some support on Friday from Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the top Shiite cleric in Iraq, who urged security forces to take a lighter touch against demonstrators and took a veiled shot at Tehran.
“No person or group, no side with a particular view, no regional or international actor may seize the will of the Iraqi people and impose its will on them,” Sistani said.
The Iraqi protesters are beginning to adopt tactics from other popular uprisings, such as those in Hong Kong and Lebanon. The ubiquitous Guy Fawkes masks from V for Vendetta are popping up in Iraq, and the demonstrators have begun tearing down police barricades while erecting roadblocks of their own.
AFP reported one such incident in Baghdad on Sunday:
“We decided to cut the roads as a message to the government that we will keep protesting until the corrupt people and thieves are kicked out and the regime falls,” one protester explained, adding that efforts have been made not to interfere with the operation of humanitarian agencies.
Students are joining the protests under the slogan “No country? No class!” and teachers have gone on strike. As public offices shut down under pressure from massive demonstrations, the protesters are hanging banners on their walls declaring, “Closed by order of the people!” Curfews imposed by the police and military are routinely ignored. 
The Iraqi meltdown is a much grimmer affair than the block-party protests in Lebanon, but not without its moments of levity, as AFP observed:
Iran-backed Shiite militia leaders are taking Tehran’s position on the protests. Qais al-Khazali, a powerful militia leader, accused the United States, Israel, and the Sunni Gulf states of attempting to “incite strife and chaos” in Iraq. He vowed to make America and Israel “pay a price” for allegedly stirring up the protests.
Israeli Foreign Minister Israel Katz on Monday fired back at Iran, making reference to reports that infamous Iranian Gen. Qassem Soleimani has been coordinating the deadly security response to the demonstrations.
“We sympathize with the Iraqi people’s protest for freedom and dignity,” said Katz. “We condemn their repression and murder, led by Qassem Soleimani and the Iranian Revolutionary Guards.”
