
# Trump impeachment: Whistleblower offered to communicate directly with Republicans after repeated attacks

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:51:11+00:00**

Author: **Clark Mindock**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/trump-impeachment-whistleblower-offered-communicate-195111335.html)

The US official whose whistleblower complaint led to the impeachment inquiry against Donald Trump, has agreed to communicate directly with members of the Republican Party on the intelligence committee leading the probe, his attorney has said.
Mark Zaid said he had reached out to congressman Devin Nunes to offer to provide sworn written responses to questions from Republicans, under penalty of perjury.
Mr Nunes - the ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee - had not responded at the time of publication.
Following repeated attacks from Republicans, who have accused him of bias, Mr Zaid said his client, a member of the US intelligence community. was prepared to respond to those allegations.
He added that they had been trying publicise his client’s identity, which could “jeopardise their safety, as well as that of their family.”
“Recent GOP messaging, led by President Trump (incl this morning), has been to highlight original #WBer & demand disclosure of identity,” Mr Zaid wrote on Twitter, using the acronym for "Grand Old Party", which the Republicans are often referred to as.
The impeachment inquiry was launched last month after a whistleblower complaint from the unidentified US intelligence official who was concerned that the president's actions on Ukraine were illegal and jeopardised national security.
It has since heard first-hand accounts from officials including former National Security Council member Alexander Vindman, who described Mr Trump's efforts to pressure Ukraine to investigate the 2020 Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden and his son Hunter, as well as accusations he used $391m in US aid as leverage.
A White House summary of a phone call between Mr Trump and Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy showed Mr Trump asking his Ukrainian counterpart to investigate his rival.
Mr Trump had attacked previously attacked the whistleblower and claimed his call with Ukrainian president Mr Zelensky was "perfect".
He claimed without proof that the news media already knows the identity of the whistleblower, and that he should be identified publicly.
