
# Manny Bermudez Announces His UFC Release

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jay Pettry**

Original: [Sherdog](https://www.sherdog.com/news/news/Manny-Bermudez-Announces-His-UFC-Release-164827)

Following his Ultimate Fighting Championship release, Manny Bermudez looks elsewhere to continue his career.On Friday, Bermudez (14-2) posted on Instagram, that he has been released from his UFC contract. This comes on the heels of a two-fight skid, and he most recently dropped his bout against Charles Rosa by first-round armbar at UFC on ESPN 6 two weeks prior. In his post, he reached out to other promotions including One Championship, Professional Fighters League and Bellator MMA.His statement reads as follows:So unfortunately the UFC has decided to cut me. Far as I'm concerned this this just an opportunity for growth and improvement. No harsh feelings, no worries, I know what I can bring to the table. Looking forward to new beginnings in the near future. Thankful as always for a great team, great friends, and a great family @onechampionship @m1global @pflmma @canalcombate @bellatormma (Also whenever I put something like this up everyone thinks I'm depressed or something, I'm good, just keeping you all in the loop) #ShootersShoot #StillMoney #MoneyBermudez.Bermudez was signed by the Las Vegas-based promotion with a perfect 11-0 record, with two decisions among nine stoppages including eight by tapout. Nicknamed "The Bermudez Triangle," he celebrated half of those submission wins by triangle choke, including his last two that led to his signing.The Massachusetts native struggled to make weight in his recent UFC tenure, missing weight by four pounds against Benito Lopez in February. From there, out of concerns that he would come in heavy once more against Casey Kenney, the promotion opted to make the bout a 140-pound catchweight contest. It was against Kenney that he suffered his first career defeat, and this prompted his move to the featherweight division. In his first trip inside the Octagon at 145 pounds, Bermudez again came in several pounds over the limit against Rosa, and in doing so became one of a small number of fighters to ever miss weight at two different weight classes.
