
# China supports more aggressive measures to tame Hong Kong unrest: Vice Premier Han Zheng

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:53:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asia/china-supports-aggressive-measures-tame-hong-kong-protests-12068044)

BEIJING: China's Vice Premier Han Zheng said on Wednesday (Nov 6) that Beijing supports more aggressive measures to tackle the unrest that has roiled the Chinese-ruled city of Hong Kong for more than five months.
At an official meeting with Hong Kong's embattled leader Carrie Lam in Beijing, Han said anti-government protests were damaging the "one country, two systems" formula under which the city has been governed since its handover from Britain to Beijing in 1997.
"We firmly support the Special Administrative Region government to adopt more pro-active and more effective measures to solve the social problems," Han said, as he sat next to Lam in a meeting room in the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse.
Han said the social problems included unaffordable housing in the city, which is classified as a special region of China.
China's Communist Party said on Tuesday it would not tolerate any "separatist behaviour" after some protesters called for independence. Han said the violence had exceeded the "bottom line" of the rule law and of morality.
Hong Kong has been upended by nearly five months of huge and increasingly violent protests calling for greater freedoms and police accountability.
Beijing and the city's leadership have taken a hardline against the protests, refusing concessions.
With no political solution in sight, street fights have broken out on both sides of the ideological divide with growing frequency.
Crowds of protesters have routinely beaten their ideological opponents, usually in spontaneous mob violence during rallies.
On Saturday, a man was beaten unconscious and stripped naked in the district of Mongkok.
On Wednesday, pro-Beijing politician Junius Ho was wounded in a knife attack while campaigning with party members in his constituency of Tuen Mun, a town on the outskirts of Hong Kong near the border with China.
Police said three people were wounded in the incident, including the attacker.
The alleged attacker was subdued and arrested. Ho said in a statement posted online that he had suffered a knife wound to the upper left part of his chest, but said his life was not at risk. Two of his colleagues were also hurt, he said.
The attacker's motive was not known but Ho gained notoriety among anti-government protesters in July when he was filmed laughing and shaking hands with suspected triad gang members who assaulted young demonstrators.
An online video showed the assailant handing Ho a bunch of yellow flowers, before taking a weapon out of his bag and stabbing him.

        VICTIMS OF VIOLENCE
      
Among the prominent people to be attacked during the months of sometimes violent unrest was Jimmy Sham, a leader of Hong Kong's Civil Human Rights Front, which organised mass rallies against the extradition Bill. He was attacked in October.
District councillor Andrew Chiu was assaulted by a man who bit off part of his ear outside a shopping mall this week.
Further protests are planned on Wednesday at some of Hong Kong's universities, activists said. Police fired water cannon to disperse protesters at a Guy Fawkes-themed march on Tuesday.
Protesters are demanding an end to perceived Chinese meddling in the territory's affairs, as well as universal suffrage and an independent inquiry into alleged police brutality, among other demands.
Beijing denies interfering and blames foreign governments for fuelling the unrest.
President Xi met Lam on Tuesday in Shanghai, vouching support for her administration.
Following the meeting, Lam denied rumours that the government was considering an amnesty for protesters charged with offences.
A student of a Hong Kong university who fell during protests at the weekend remained in critical condition on life support, hospital authorities said as his friends gathered at the hospital to pray for him. 

        Follow us on Telegram for the latest on Hong Kong: https://cna.asia/telegram
      
