
# Thursday deals: Lenovo Smart Clock $40, Chromebook sale from $89, SmartThings, more

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:32:52+00:00**

Author: **Trevor Daugherty**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/07/lenovo-smart-clock-chromebook-sale/)

Lenovo Smart Clock is down to $40, you can grab a Samsung Chromebook for $89, and SmartThings systems and accessories are all discounted. Hit the jump for that and more in the latest 9to5Toys Lunch Break.
B&H offers the Lenovo Smart Clock with Google Assistant for $40. That’s down from the original $80 price tag and current $60 offering at Walmart. Today’s deal is $10 less than our previous mention and the expected Black Friday price as well.
Lenovo Smart Clock delivers a built-in display, access to Google Assistant, and more in a nightstand-appropriate design. Leverage smart features to control “more than 30,000 products” while also playing your favorite music, audiobooks, and more. We loved it in our hands-on review, noting that it’s “the only way Google Assistant should be in the bedroom.”
Best Buy offers the 11-inch Samsung 3 Chromebook for $89. As a comparison, it originally sold for $189, and we’ve seen it as low as $175 at Amazon. Today’s deal is the expected Black Friday price later this month. While not the most high-end Chromebook out there, this model offers enough power for web browsing and email. That makes it a reliable companion for kids and grandparents without heavy and intensive tasks. Features include an HD display, 802.11ac connectivity, a webcam, and HDMI output. While just sporting 16GB of on-board memory, Google Drive storage comes included for extra space.
Amazon currently offers the Samsung SmartThings third-generation Hub for $58. Typically selling for $70, today’s offer saves you over 17%, comes within $3 of the all-time low, and is the second-best offer we’ve tracked to date. Samsung’s newest SmartThings Hub makes kickstarting a more advanced smart home setup a breeze. It offers a wide range of integrations, from Z-Wave and Zigbee accessories to Philips Hue, Arlo, and much more. Bringing this hub into the mix allows you to configure complex automation, set schedules, and combine all of your gear into a single app. More deals can be found below.
Amazon currently offers the Google Pixel Slate 64GB Intel Core m3 Chrome OS Tablet for $533. Typically selling for $799, that’s good for a 33% discount, is $5 under our previous mention, and marks a new Amazon all-time low. Centered around a 12.3-inch touchscreen Molecule display, Pixel Slate sports 64GB of on-board storage alongside 8GB of RAM. In terms of other notable features, you’re looking at up to ten hours of battery life, USB-C, and dual front-facing speakers. Learn more in our review.
Amazon is currently offering the unlocked Motorola Moto One Action 128GB Android Smartphone for $250. Usually selling for $350, today’s offer marks the first notable price cut we’ve seen and a new Amazon all-time low. Featuring a 6.3-inch CinemaVision display, Motorola powers its new Moto One with an octa-core processor. Around back, you’ll find a triple camera system comprised of 5MP depth, 12MP wide-angle and 16MP sensors. Other notable features include 128GB of storage, Dolby Audio, and more. Learn more in our launch coverage.

        
          Subscribe to the 9to5Toys YouTube Channel for all of the latest videos, reviews, and more!
        
      

        Hands-on with the beautiful Razer Blade Stealth 13 Mercury White [Video]
      

        Nixplay Smart Photo Frame Review: Elegant and easy-to-use [Video]
      
