
# NZ vs ENG | It was a match that got away from us, laments Eoin Morgan

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:36:18+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/nz-vs-eng-it-was-a-match-that-got-away-from-us-laments-eoin-morgan?utm_medium=rss)


        England T20 Captain Eoin Morgan believes that the loss that they faced against New Zealand in the third T20I was a game that they should have easily won. Chasing a target of 181, England were in full control but a flurry of wickets coupled with the inexperience in the side cost them the game.
      
New Zealand have taken a 2-1 lead in the T20I series against England after beating them in the third T20I by 14 runs and a dejected England skipper Eoin Morgan believes that this was a game that they should have won. England were in full control of the chase till Morgan was batting with James Vince, but then wickets started to tumble and England ended up 14 runs short of the target.
"It was one that got away from us. I thought we were in control all through the chase until we were three or four down," Morgan said in the post-match presentation ceremony.
"The lack of experience in the chase cost us. The guys coming in need to play a few more games to get that experience," he further added.
England have a new-look squad as they are experimenting keeping in mind the T20 World Cup that is to be held next year Down Under. Players like Tom Banton and Pat Brown, who impressed in the Vitality T20 Blast, have been rewarded with call-ups to the national squad and despite the inexperience, Morgan has asserted that his team will stick to their usual aggressive approach.
"Our gameplan remains the same; everything about what we do is positive, smart, aggressive cricket. We want young guys to come in and adapt to that. A lot of positives to take away for us from today," Morgan asserted.
The Curran brothers Tom and Sam have been pretty impressive for the England side, with their subtle variations and ability to bowl with the new ball and at death providing Morgan with a variety of options to choose from. Morgan lauded the duo for the key role they've played in the first three T20Is. 
"A must-win game for us as we move to Napier. An experienced Tom Curran in the end with the ball was brilliant, Sam has gone from strength to strength for us. He took the new ball for us and has been a massive positive," Morgan concluded.
