
# Will two Trojan horses prove more than the British Museum can handle?

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:00:15+00:00**

Author: **Richard Brooks**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/03/british-museum-troy-myth-reality-horse-bp-bbc-samira-ahmed-pay)


        There’ll be treasures, tall tales and protest at a new exhibition, while the BBC is under pressure again
      
Who would turn down the chance to exhibit historical treasures just dug up in north-west Turkey? Well, the British Museum did in the 1870s. The collection went instead to the new kid on the block, the V&A. Now the BM is making amends with more than 300 remarkable items in Troy: Myth and Reality, opening on 21 November. Quite a few come from the museum itself, with others on loan from around the world, including Berlin, which holds many objects unearthed by the archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann nearly 150 years ago.
Troy was of course made famous by Homer and Virgil’s heroic stories of Helen, Paris and the wooden horse. It was a great yarn. But Schliemann was a brilliant spin doctor, claiming his objects actually belonged to these, well, fictional characters, to ensure that his discoveries, themselves genuinely ancient, fitted his desired narrative.
The BM exhibition will kick off with the myth of Troy before telling the story of Schliemann’s excavation and, finally, the cultural legacy of characters such as Helen. And the horse? Well the BM is constructing its own, a skeleton-like beast through which the public can walk. But there will be a rival. The BP or Not BP? protest organisation, furious as ever about sponsorship by the oil giant, are crowdfunding their own Trojan horse. Maybe to be parked, like some proverbial tank, outside the museum?
BBC broadcaster Samira Ahmed last week began an equal pay fight at an employment tribunal. Her case follows the Carrie Gracie dispute, which eventually led to some female presenters, such as Sarah Montague and Jane Garvey, rightly getting their salaries upped. But this is not the only example of incompetent handling of money matters by the BBC. For more than two-and-a-half years, hundreds of radio presenters, from some of the biggest names to those on local stations, have been arguing about pay and contracts.
This follows the corporation telling them to abandon being set up as “companies” for receiving their wages, a wheeze that the BBC had earlier requested so it could avoid paying national insurance contributions. The Inland Revenue was not amused when it found out. Now the BBC wants to give these presenters so-called worker contracts, taxed at source but without benefits such as holiday and sick pay. The money on offer is also often lower than before. It’s yet another example of the BBC’s bad management, like last month’s Naga Munchetty case, which should urgently be addressed by its board. But its government-appointed chairman, David Clementi, a City banker, is known for near-invisibility and not wishing to rock the boat.
Opening on 7 November in Belfast is Abomination: A DUP Opera, inspired by a radio interview a decade ago with former DUP politician Iris Robinson, who called homosexuality “an abomination”. The opera, a co-production between the Belfast Ensemble and Outburst Arts, opens the 2019 Outburst Queer Arts festival, now in its 13th year. The law may have just been changed to allow same sex marriage, but this opera is a reminder that some of Northern Ireland remains stuck in a time warp of prejudice.
