
# Brits to continue MH370 search in Cambodian jungle despite near-fatal experience

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:53:45+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/brits-continue-mh370-search-cambodian-20801295)

A tenacious Brit convinced that missing flight MH370 is in the Cambodian jungle says he will resume his search - even though a previous attempt nearly proved deadly.
Ian Wilson believes he spotted the Malaysia Airlines plane when looking at Google Maps.
He travelled to the area with brother Jack last year - and Jack was lucky to survive a sudden fall after ground gave way underneath him.
Despite this Ian is keen to return to the mountainous terrain.
The video producer told the Daily Star that it was "so dangerous", and added: "We should have been badly injured, but the guides were good, they would go across first, and pull us up."
 
He said Jack had been on a steep incline when the ground gave way, forcing him to "dive" and ending up in a tree.
Ian said: "He was hanging on at one point, if he hand't have dived and hung onto that branch, he would have had a pretty steep fall."
He is now determined to resume the search for the missing Boeing 777-2000, which vanished in March 2014 while flying from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.
This is despite the impact it had on him personally.
 
"I had a weird seizure the day after I came there, I thought I was having a stroke, all jittery and my heart was going, probably really bad dehydration," he said.
Ian told the Daily Star he is hoping to get the money together for another trip to Cambodia.
He began his quest after spotting a plane on Google Maps.
However the Aviation Safety Network (ASN) is certain that the aircraft was captured mid-flight.
Evidence is mounting that the crash, which has become of the greatest aviation mysteries of all time, was a murder-suicide.
New flight data suggests "some abnormal turns [were] made by the 777 [that] can only be done manually."
French investigators claim captain Zaharie Ahmad Shah was a troubled, lonely man who deliberately killed all passengers and crew on board the flight.
But it will take around "a year" to go through all of the information received from Boeing, sources said in July.
A source, who is "close to the investigation", said: "Some abnormal turns made by the 777 can only be done manually. So someone was at the helm.
"It is too early to state categorically.
"But nothing is credited that anyone else could have entered the cockpit."
The informant told Le Parisien the new development amid France's judicial inquiry into the crash. It is the only country to conduct one as of yet.
