
# Local retailers emphasize community feel to stay alive in online era

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:00:30+00:00**

Author: **Lynn Giesbrecht**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/local-news/local-retailers-emphasize-community-feel-to-stay-alive-in-online-era)

In the 11 years Chelsea Petterson has been running local clothing store Coda and Cade, she has seen a dramatic shift in how people shop — particularly with the rise of online shopping.
Now she isn’t just competing with other local businesses or box stores, but also with the companies she buys her products from, which market directly to customers online.
“We’re competing with direct-to-consumer businesses, which means I sell Nike, but I’m competing with Nike online,” she said.
Henry Ripplinger, owner of Ripplinger Fine Art Gallery together with its accompanying cafe, gift shop and clothing boutique in Regina, has also been struggling to compete against the global companies making online shopping fast and simple.
“You take Amazon for example. They sell virtually what we were selling,” he said. “We’re all part of the big picture now. We’re not confined and isolated like we used to be. We are out there fighting the big guys.”
Brad Kreutzer owns local stationery store Paper Umbrella with his wife Theresa Kutarna. In the search for ways to attract people to his brick and mortar store over buying a product online, Kreutzer often finds himself asking a simple question: “What is it that’s going to get somebody out of their pyjamas and out of the basement, and come out to your store?”
According to the Canadian Internet Registration Authority, 51 per cent of Canadians made an online purchase from their home in 2019, compared to just 26 per cent in 2014. The number of people buying items with their phones also spiked from a mere 12 per cent in 2014 to 46 per cent this year.
So how are local businesses staying afloat amid the growth in online shopping?
All three business owners said providing a strong sense of community and a positive shopping experience are key.
Petterson acknowledged that customers could purchase everything sold in her store online somewhere, but said people will keep coming through her physical door for the human interaction that the in-person shopping experience provides.
“What online will never replicate is the interaction, the community and the feeling that somebody cares about them,” she said. “We genuinely care about our customers. And I think people at the end of the day still really want to feel community.”
Along with cultivating a sense of community, business owners know that creating a unique customer experience instead of just a sale also brings people through their doors.
“We try and create a positive atmosphere … kind of like a break from their real life and hopefully they have an enjoyable time whether they buy something or not,” said Kreutzer.
But even with the attractive community aspect, convenience is difficult to beat.
For Regina resident Brand Yarnton, online shopping wins out when he’s looking for things like electronics, board games or specialty items like a blade for his paper cutter. The convenience, speed and competitive pricing for these items online make shopping from home appealing to him.
“(If) I need it right away or within like a day, I’ll just order it online,” he said. “If I know that I’m really busy, and I won’t be able to make it to a store, then buying online becomes more of my go-to. So largely the convenience factor is sort of the decider of whether I will go to a store or buy online.”
But for items like groceries and clothing, Yarnton prefers to see and touch the items in person before buying them and is conscientious about shopping local for these products. The community feel of local stores has made him a returning customer to many, but at times he finds it hard to balance his desire to support local with convenience.
“I think a lot of people are sort of finding that split as well, of trying to balance supporting local but also meeting their convenience needs,” he said.
Petterson is skeptical that the majority of Regina residents consider supporting a local business before turning to an online store and wishes more people would look into what Regina’s entrepreneurs have to offer.
“Ask them if you’re looking for a specific product, ask them if they have that product, ask them if they can price match,” she said, noting most businesses will be more than willing to try to help.
Kreutzer agreed, noting that many times people are not aware of the hidden gems the Queen City’s business community has to offer.
Ripplinger said he is constantly surprised at how many people have never heard of his gallery. When business is slow and he is barely making ends meet, Ripplinger said he has even considered shutting the doors, but his emotional attachment to his business and the community has kept him going.
“They have to realize that if they want local business … to continue in the city, then they have to come and support us,” he said.

        lgiesbrecht@postmedia.com
      
