
# ASEAN meeting grapples with trade war, territorial disputes

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **JIM GOMEZ and ELAINE KURTENBACH**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/2/asean-meeting-grapples-with-trade-war-territorial-/)

NONTHABURI, Thailand (AP) - Southeast Asia should use the sway of its shared market of 650 million people and speak with “one voice” to ensure it is treated fairly in an age of protectionism, Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said Saturday as leaders gathered for a regional summit.
Mahathir told business leaders attending meetings of the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations that they should unite in fighting back if countries try to shut them out of their markets.
The image of unity ASEAN strives to project has been clouded by wrangling over a long-delayed agreement on a free trade bloc. The 10-nation association is also divided over handling of territorial disputes with China.
But the trade war between Beijing and Washington and President Donald Trump’s “America first” stance have many countries sharing a common goal of protecting their access to wealthy Western markets.
“ASEAN is quite a big market for the whole world. We don’t want to go into a trade war,” Mahathir said. He described campaigns against exports of palm oil from Malaysia and Indonesia over concerns regarding labor and environmental issues as “sabotage.”
“If they do things that are not nice to us, we have to be not nice to them,” he said. “If you cut back some imports of palm oil from Malaysia, we can cut back our imports from them.”
“We should have one voice,” he said. “If you go it alone, you will be bullied.”
Trump opted not to attend the ASEAN and other regional meetings outside Thailand’s capital, Bangkok, that begin later Saturday and run through Monday. Many other regional leaders are attending, including Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence are said to be busy with campaigning on behalf of fellow Republicans.
Mahathir, who is 94 and known for not mincing his words, had some harsh things to say about the U.S. leader and his policies, describing Trump as “not a very nice man.”
Arin Jira, who chaired the meeting as head of ASEAN’s Business Advisory Council, said the gathering should call for “world economic peace” against trade wars that are causing havoc.
“The result of war is only destruction,” he said.
While ASEAN members may share a common goal in boosting their trade within and outside the region, they struggle how to address tensions over China’s encroachment into the disputed waters of the South China Sea.
Vietnam wanted a communique to be issued by ASEAN leaders that would mention Chinese movements into waters where its southern neighbor has exclusive rights to exploit energy resources, and other aggressive acts off the Philippines and Malaysia in recent months.
China, through its ASEAN ally Cambodia, has opposed any such move, two Southeast Asian diplomats told The Associated Press.
After weeks of wrangling, senior diplomats hammered out a compromise phrase that expresses concern over “serious incidents in the area, which have eroded trust and confidence, increased tensions and may undermine peace, security and stability in the region,” one of the diplomats said.
The phrase would not name China or mention other details, the diplomat said. Both officials spoke to AP on condition of anonymity for lack of authority to discuss the issue publicly.
China and its ASEAN allies have steadfastly refused attempts to use the annual summits as an arena to rebuke Beijing for its actions, which include building seven islands on disputed reefs that U.S. officials say could serve as military platforms to intimidate rival claimants.
China claims virtually the entire South China Sea, a vital waterway for global commerce and has opposed naval and aerial patrols by the U.S. and its allies as American interference in an Asian problem. Beijing also regards the U.S. concept of a free and open Indo-Pacific region as a strategy to contain China.
ASEAN members and others in Asia, meanwhile, look to the U.S. to help counter China’s growing reach and power. Trump’s absence is a disappointment to some in the region and may undermine the U.S. assertion that it puts a high priority on trade and other ties with the region.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
