
# Analysis: Scottish Labour's general election hopes are tied to the UK party

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:25:05+00:00**

Author: **Paul Hutcheon, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/paul-hutcheon/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/analysis-scottish-labours-general-election-20825886)

Scottish Labour’s upbeat campaign launch in Glasgow included policy announcements that will be popular with Daily Record readers.
Investing £10bn to build 120,000 new homes will resonate with young people struggling to fly the nest. The promise to end homelessness is also Labour at its best.
However, radical domestic policies are unlikely to define the Scottish party’s general election campaign.
Richard Leonard’s hopes of holding his seven MPs are linked to the abrupt u-turn made by shadow chancellor John McDonnell on indyref2.
Pre-summer, Labour refused to consider another referendum on Scotland’s constitutional future. McDonnell dumped the policy at the Edinburgh Festival and said a Labour Government would not block the SNP’s central demand.
This was a deliberate shift from a unionist position that the Corbynistas never liked. They believe the Jim Murphy/Kezia Dugdale approach alienated SNP voters and are confident the new stance gives Yes supporters a reason to vote Labour.
For the UK leadership, it seems there is little difference between a seat won by the SNP or Scottish Labour. Both help further the same goal of nudging Jeremy Corbyn a step closer to Downing Street.
Many Scottish Labour activists loathe this new approach for two reasons. Senior party figures, still sore at being knocked off their perch by the SNP, dislike the Nationalists more than the Tories. They also believe Leonard has been humiliated by McDonnell.
Yesterday’s launch was a foretaste of how the five week campaign will work out for Leonard. He talked about investment in public services and ending austerity, but many of the questions from the media were on indyref2.
Scottish Labour has secured more autonomy over the last decade, in much the same way that Holyrood has from Westminster. Party figures hoped these reforms would shake off of the “branch off” tag memorably coined by ex-leader Johann Lamont.
But recent events are a brutal reminder that power in Labour lies in London, not Glasgow. Scottish Labour’s fate is in the hands of the party south of the border.
