
# Benoit Assou-Ekotto 'told ex-Tottenham coach' of desire to become porn star

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:40:07+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/benoit-assou-ekotto-told-ex-20792831)

Former Tottenham coach Clive Allen has claimed ex-Spurs defender Benoit Assou-Ekotto once told him he wanted to become a porn star when his career ended.
Former Cameroon left-back Assou-Ekotto played for the North London club between 2006 and 2015, and also represented Queens Park Rangers.
During his time in the Premier League, the defender developed a reputation as a maverick and previously admitted he only viewed football as just a job and 'not his passion'.
And former England striker Allen, who worked with Assou-Ekotto during his time as a coach at Spurs, recalled a conversation with the left-back in his new book 'Up Front', where he gave a surprise answer regarding his plans after retirement.
When he asked by Allen what he planned to do once he finished playing, Assou-Ekotto reportedly said : "'I think I’m going to be a porn star'.”
Allen's account continued: "He was as calm as you like. 'No, I'm serious. Why not?'
"I didn't know what to say. I tried to keep it light. ‘Benoit, when you make your first movie, I want tickets to the premiere!’.
“He didn’t realise I was joking. ‘Coach, no problem at all,’ he replied, absolute deadpan."
It is not the first time Assou-Ekotto has been surrounded by such claims, with former Tottenham boss Harry Redknapp making similar comments in 2017.
Redknapp, who managed the defender during spells with both Spurs and Queens Park Rangers, said he wanted to sign the Cameroonian for Birmingham City.
When asked if there was a chance of Assou-Ekotto joining him a St Andrews, he told the Spurs Show podcast (via the Independent ): “The only trouble is that he’s admitted he wants to be a pornstar.
“Maybe I can get another year out of him before he decides to do that."
However, the 35-year-old was quick to dismiss the idea and laughed off his former manager's comments.
“It made me laugh, but my mother discovered it this morning, Mother’s Day," he told France Football at the time. "She told me she would have preferred another gift.
“It was just a joke, it’s not bad. What’s absurd is that we can take it seriously.
"As if I wanted to become a porn actor! It’s far too taboo.”
