
# Apple Prepares Cheaper iPhone Gamble

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ewan Spence**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ewanspence/2019/11/06/apple-iphone-se2-new-report-price-launch-date-sales-tim-cook-gamble/)

Following the early release of 2019’s iPhone portfolio (compared to 2018’s schedule), Apple saw some strong results, but the long term forecast did not suggest that the iPhone 11 family could turn around Apple’s falling sales of the iPhone.Apple has hedged against this with the presumptively named iPhone SE2 is set to launch near the end of Q1 2020 to boost the figures. According to the latest analysts, the SE2 will make up a significant proportion of 2020 sales.
Noted analyst Ming-Chi Kuo’s latest report on the iPhone SE2 suggests that sales of the handset will be in toe 20-30 million range for 2020. MacRumors’ Juli Clover reports:
"Kuo believes Apple will ship at least 20 million ‌iPhone SE 2‌ units in 2020, following the device's launch in the first half of the year. An optimistic situation, says Kuo, is 30 million units.
“…In prior research notes, Kuo has shared quite a lot of detail on the "‌iPhone SE 2‌," which, despite the somewhat misleading name, is actually closer in design and specification to an ‌iPhone 8‌."
The iPhone 8 is currently priced at $449 for the entry-level model. It has been previously reported that Apple is looking at a price-point of $399 for the iPhone SE2, making the SE2 the cheapest ‘on-ramp’ into Tim Cook’s connected world of smartphones and services. The real value is not to be found in the margins of the iPhone SE2… although you can be sure that using the iPhone 8 as the base design that the bill of materials is going to be lower than any of the iPhone 11 handsets.
The real value is going to be bringing new users into Apple’s growing portfolio of subscription-based online services, and retaining current users with a new and affordable handset. The broader the base of iOS devices, the more people will consider the likes of Apple Arcade, Apple Music, and extra iCloud storage.
If Apple can turn around the trend of falling iPhone sales with the SE2’s extra 20 million sales, the long-term benefits will more than make up for the lower retail price and reduced profit compared to the $1500 flagships.
