
# Strictly's Mike Bushell has perfect comeback to troll saying he won't be a dancer

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:38:50+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/strictlys-mike-bushell-perfect-comeback-20818156)

Strictly Come Dancing's dance off regular, the BBC's Mike Bushell, has hit back at a troll you told him he would "never be a dancer."
The 53 year old, who's paired up with pro Katya Jones, has been in the bottom two for three weeks in a row now, and four times in total.
Some fans have been scratching their heads over the judges' repeated decision to save Mike and let him dance another day.
Mike took to Twitter to post his gratitude to those who've offered cheers and support, writing: "Thank you for great feedback tonight. I did my best and as from week one I can't wait for next week."
Pretty soon a troll decided they'd have a pop at Mike, penning: "You do your best but you'll never be a dancer, sorry, you should gave gone this week."
Mike came back with the perfect reply: "Hi Pam. Thanks for this. It's great everyone has their favourites and I respect opinion but for 12 years I've tried to inspire people who think they can't do sport or are rubbish to try a new sport to get fitter.
"Let's not tell anyone they can't or never will be this or that."
Fans were quick to offer words of support for the sports broadcaster.
"Perfect response Mike," one wrote.
Another gushed: "This is exactly why you are our family favourite @mikebreakfast #inspiration."
This series of Strictly has seen various judges and contestants met with much more vicious trolling and even death threats.
Katya even announced her complete departure from social media following threats against Mike's life - they have had some fans angry after ousting Dev Griffin, Catherine Tyldesley and Emma Weymouth during dance offs.
The dancer told The Sun on Sunday : "I'm off social media; it's not real.
"For me, it's real what we're doing with our dancing and performance. There's no need for negatives. I just want to do my own thing."
Head judge Shirley Ballas has also been the target of threats, describing that one troll had sent her a doctored image of her digging her own grave.
