
# Karma Teases SC2 Coupe Concept Debut For LA Auto Show

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:17:06+00:00**

Author: **Chris Bruce**

Original: [Motor1.com](https://www.motor1.com/news/381072/karma-sc2-concept-la-show/?utm_source=RSS&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=RSS-all-)

Here is the first glimpse of the Karma SC2 concept ahead of its debut at the 2019 Los Angeles Auto Show. It arrives at the event along with a high-performance Revero GTS.
The teaser image only shows half of the SC2 in a photo looking down at its roof. Karma refers to the vehicle as an "evolution of the dramatic SC1 Vision Concept" (gallery below). Unlike the predecessor, the new vehicle is a hardtop rather than a roadster. Judging by the door seams, there appears to be a massive opening for entering each side similar to the ones on the SC1. A long nose and short rear deck give the machine a classic sports car shape. 
The company also hints that it wants to expand beyond just being an automaker and intends to outline some of the plans during the LA Auto Show. "Karma is evolving beyond a car company to become a tech-driven brand equally focused on being an important engineering, design, customization resource, and high-tech incubator to others," CEO Dr. Lance Zhou, said in the SC2's teaser.
Karma indicates that the look of the SC1 and SC2 influences the company's next production vehicles. In the meantime, the Revero GTS would offer a meaner version of the company's existing model. When the automaker introduced the Revero GT at the Shanghai Motor Show, it said the GTS was able to reach 60 mph (96 kph) in 3.9 seconds and scheduled the on-sale date for early 2020.
The mildly hot Revero GT adopts a BMW-sourced powertrain with a 1.5-liter turbocharged three-cylinder and 28-kilowatt-hour battery back. The setup offers 535 horsepower (399 kilowatts) and 550 pound-feet (746 Nm) of torque. It can reach 60 mph in 4.5 seconds and has an EV-only range of 61 miles (98 kilometers) in the EPA test.
Source: Karma
Karma Unveils Performance Version of Revero GT and Striking Concept Car, Previewing Future Karma Design Direction
California-based Brand Uses AutoMobility LA and LA Auto Show 2019 to Showcase Technology, Design and Product Story
Tech-Focused Business Plan Grows Company Value Beyond Retail Sales AloneKarma Offers Glimpse of New Concept via Design Image Released Today 
IRVINE, Calif. (Oct. 23, 2019) – Karma Automotive, the Southern California-based high-tech mobility incubator, will use its first major North American auto show presence to showcase its technology, design and product story during AutoMobility LA and the 2019 Los Angeles Auto Show.
“Karma is evolving beyond a car company to become a tech-driven brand equally focused on being an important engineering, design, customization resource and high-tech incubator to others,” said Karma CEO Dr. Lance Zhou. “As the only company creating and building cars in Southern California today, Karma’s presence at these two major automotive forums reinforces our commitment to and our investment in the region.”
Karma’s plans for AutoMobility LA, the Los Angeles Auto Show’s annual media and industry event, and 2019 Los Angeles Auto Show include:
Global Product Reveals:
Tuesday, Nov. 19: Global introduction of both the Karma Revero GTS, a performance version of the 2020 Revero GT luxury electric vehicle, and the SC2, a new concept car and evolution of the dramatic SC1 Vision Concept unveiled earlier this year. The company will also provide more insight about its business strategy comprised of a tech-focused ecosystem designed to significantly add value to the brand beyond retail sales alone. The media and industry-only event will occur at 11:40AM Pacific in AutoMobility LA’s Technology Pavilion, located at the Los Angeles Convention Center.Karma provided a glimpse of its Nov. 19 product announcement by releasing an image of the new SC2, reflective of the company’s future design direction and emergence as a technology incubator.
Karma’s First Major North American Public Stand Display:
Wednesday, Nov. 20, AutoMobility LA 2019: Karma’s public stand located in the LA Convention Center’s West Hall Concourse Foyer featuring the company’s design, product and technology story, including a modular Drivable Mechanical and Electrical Platform. 
Friday, Nov. 22, through Sunday, Dec. 1, 2019 Los Angeles Auto Show: Karma’s product and technology display is open to the public. 
Car Design News LA Forum 2019:
Wednesday, Nov. 20: Andreas Thurner, Karma VP, Global Design and Architecture, will participate in the Car Design News LA Forum session, “New Way to Design,” starting at 4:55PM in the AutoMobility LA Technology Pavilion. 
Thurner will use the CDN Forum to showcase Karma Design, a dedicated business unit established to both drive the company’s unique design identity and syndicate its styling services. Karma is growing its design capabilities in part by investing more than $1M to build an enhanced Design Studio at its Global Headquarters in Irvine, Calif.
Beyond its growing technology story, Karma’s current momentum is partly driven by a period of rapid product introduction, including the U.S. launch of its 2020 Revero GT luxury electric vehicle, to be followed by a new Karma global platform in 2021 and supported by a rapidly increasing retail footprint.
Media and industry professionals can register for 2019 AutoMobility LA (Nov. 18 – 21)
Meet Karma Group and the 2020 Revero GT
As our name implies, Southern California-based Karma Group is more than just a car company. Although we are best known as a creator of soul-stirring luxury electric vehicles, Karma has emerged as a high-tech incubator offering innovators a perfect platform to prove their emerging technologies. Founded in 2014, Karma is reinventing the traditional retail-based automotive business model to create non-traditional value by opening its engineering, design, customization and manufacturing resources to other companies looking to speed product development, access new technology, or make their products more luxurious. The Revero GT is a luxury electric vehicle powered by dual electric motors that embodies Karma’s goals of offering leading automotive design, technology, customization and an outstanding customer experience. Our growing number of retail partners in North America is accepting pre-orders of the Revero GT now with first deliveries expected during the fourth quarter of 2019. Every Revero GT is created with great individual care and world-class craftsmanship at the Karma Innovation and Customization Center in Moreno Valley, Calif.
