
# British Airways' latest sale has cheap flights to Europe under £30 each way

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:58:31+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/cheap-flights/british-airways-latest-sale-cheap-20807598)

British Airways is giving holidaymakers the perfect opportunity to bag a cheap European city break in its latest sale.
The airline has slashed prices across 200,000 seats on its London Gatwick routes, and there are currently fares from £24 each way up for grabs.
There are heaps of tempting destinations including the likes of Amsterdam, Nice, Seville, Alicante, Venice, Rome and Dubrovnik included in the offer.
All of the discounted flights are already available to book on the British Airways website here .
However, if you find your ideal getaway in the offers then it's worth snapping it up, as the sale isn't on for long; it ends on Tuesday 5th November.
Oh, and as there are 200,000 seats included, once they're gone, that's it. (As for the travel dates available, this varies depending on your destination but there are selected dates available from November 2019 through to March 2020).
 
The sheer amount of choice can be a little overwhelming so to give you a helping hand we've picked out some of the best flight deals that caught our attention in the sale.
Check out our top picks below - and happy holiday hunting!
 
If you're thinking of visiting the Christmas markets, your window of travel dates is a little shorter as the sale excludes travel between the 16th-29th December.
However, the good news is that heaps of Europe's best Christmas markets kick off in late November, so if you can find a deal that's for late November or early December it can be done!
Thinking of a ski holiday instead? You can find flights to Geneva from £27 each way , which makes for a handy base from which to then head to the world's top ski resorts.
It's not just flights which are on offer in the deals. In fact, British Airways has also slashed prices on a host of packages, with flight and hotel deals from £99pp included in the sale to the likes of Amsterdam, Rome and Venice.
Don't be disheartened if you can't quite find the right offer for you. You may want to bookmark our Holiday Deals page which we regularly update with all the latest flight sales and travel deals we find that we think you'll love, for both last minute getaways and holidays in 2020.
