
# Law firm reveals full trainee intake retention

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/business/2019/11/04/news/law-firm-reveals-full-trainee-intake-retention-1754372/)

LAW firm Pinsent Masons has unveiled its new trainees for 2019-21, with another four recruits entering its award-winning programme.
And the investment builds on a strong platform last year, with the firm announcing a 100 per cent retention rate for its quartet of 2017-19 students.
Taking up their posts as newly-qualified solicitors are Danielle McKeefry (corporate), Hannah Megarry (property) and Lisa McGrady (litigation), while Rory Copeland (banking) joins the London office.
Regan Martin, Ben McDowell, Aisling Taggart and Emma Swan have now commenced their training contract programmes.
Belfast office head Andrea McIlroy-Rose said: "I'm delighted to see us maintain our strong level of investment in the lawyers of tomorrow. We pride ourselves in providing a first-rate training programme.
"Our entrants start their experience with a trainee conference, where they have the opportunity to meet counterparts from other Pinsent Masons offices.
"As well as properly structured legal training, we also provide broader skills training such as networking and client engagement. The programme is supported by a dedicated team ensuring that our people get the best out of the experience of training with us."
Pinsent Masons has been recognised with a number of recent significant accreditations including No.1 LGBT+ employer in Stonewall's Workplace Equality Index and The Times' Top 50 Employers for Women.
