
# Axe Hovering Over PSL Coach’s Head!   

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:53:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/siyagobhoza/polokwane-city-s-zlatko-krmpotic-skating-on-thin-ice/666952)

Another coach in the Absa Premiership is skating on thin ice, due to disappointing results by his team. 
After an impressive start to the season by Polokwane City under Zlatko Krmpotic with four wins, one draw and only one loss in opening six matches in the league, the team has had a disappointing run of late due to unsatisfactory results. 

        Read: Changes Galore For Pirates V Chiefs 
      
Rise and Shine lost 5-3 to Cape Town City on Wednesday, fuelling rumours that he could be close to leaving the club. 
The loss in Cape Town was the Limpopo team’s fifth in a row, including their early exit in the Telkom Knockout.
“The coach is not safe in his job. The management is not happy with the team’s loss of form and anything can happen there,” said the source.  

        Read: 
        3 Players Shine As Golden Boot Race Heats Up 
      
Following Polokwane’s loss to Golden Arrows in Durban in the league, Krmpotic failed to honour a mandatory post-match press conference, something which landed him in hot water with the PSL.
Last week, the PSL confirmed to have written a letter to the Serbian mentor in relation to comments attributed to him about the match officials.

        Read: Pirates Risk Achieving Terrible Record! 
      
In a recent exclusive interview with Soccer Laduma, Krmpotic indicated that he wasn’t reading much into his two-year deal with the Limpopo side, and acknowledged that results would decide his destiny. 
“In South Africa, (the) length of the contract doesn’t mean much. In sports, it is hard to repeat the same result. Polokwane City had a most successful campaign last season. If we repeat that or end up in (the) Top Eight like we agreed, we would consider it a good result. For much bigger results, you need better selection, hard work and a bit of luck. In life and in sports, you need to be realistic so that you can work hard to improve,” said the 61-year-old coach, in part. 
Attempts have been made to get a comment from the club’s CEO Tincy Tema regarding the coach’s future, however, his phone rang unanswered each time he was called by the Siya crew on Thursday.    
