
# 16 Great Things To See And Do In Italy This Winter

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Catherine Sabino**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/catherinesabino/2019/11/03/16-great-things-to-see-and-do-in-italy-this-winter/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Italy does winter in great style, with plenty of things to see beyond the usual visitor bucket-list stops. Here are 16 ideas for cold-weather months, ranging from World Cup downhill ski races and holiday markets in the Italian Alps to a Milan show devoted to Federico Fellini, along with ideas for ringing in the New Year in Venice, Rome and Genoa. (A few not-to-miss items were included even if they occur before the official start of winter on December 21.)ITALIAN ALPS
1. Head to the mountains for all the Christmas markets. While you’ll find great holiday markets throughout Italy, they come with a rich Alpine vibe in the country’s northern regions. Among the best known are those in the South Tyrol cities of Bolzano and Merano, where traditions, food, and crafts reflect the area’s hybrid Austro-Italian heritage. For a holiday market in a smaller setting, consider the one held in Italy’s northernmost town, Vipiteno (also known as Sterzing in this bi-lingual area). The markets, which are especially beautiful at night with all the lighted decorations, open November 28 or 29 and run to January 6.
2.Visit Cortina D’Ampezzo for Fashion Weekend. This historic resort, which hosted the 1956 Winter Olympics (and with Milan will be the site of them again in 2026), has long been a jet-set magnet, known for its style, great skiing and apres-ski pizzazz. In early December (this year the 6th to 8th), Cortina stages a Fashion Weekend, jump-starting holiday activities with a major dose of chic. There are cocktail gatherings, parties, a sporting “village” on Mount Faloria, where you can have a look at the latest ski gear, along with late-night shopping, a light show, and charity ski race.
3.Watch the best downhillers in the world compete for the FIS Alpine Ski World Cup on some of Italy’s best-known racing courses. Head to Val Gardena/Gröden in the Dolomites on December 21 for the men’s downhill race on the Saslong course, famed for its difficult “camel hump” stretch. The race ends at the pretty Alpine town of Santa Cristina. Other World Cup men’s downhill races take place in Italy in Bormio on December 28 on the Stelvio course, among the most challenging on the international racing circuit, and in Cortina D’Ampezzo on March 18, 2020 (Vertigine course), when a women’s downhill race will also be held (Olympia delle Tofane course).

        VENICE
      
4.With its calli, or streets, and arcades dripping with lights and the Christmas tree glittering in the Piazza San Marco, Venice becomes an even more mystically beautiful city during the holiday season. Ring in the New Year at one of La Serenissima’s newest properties, the St. Regis Venice, a stylish and sleek addition to the iconic hotel brand’s luxury holdings. Involving an extensive renovation of five palazzi, the hotel, located in what once was the Grand Hotel Britannia, where notable guests included the painters Monet and John Singer Sargent, lies opposite Santa Maria della Salute on the Grand Canal, and is a short hop to the Piazza San Marco and Harry’s Bar. Appropriately, considering the past roster of guests, the hotel is inviting select artists to stay at the property to create works inspired by it and the locale. Pieces by the first in-residence artist, noted French painter Olivier Masmonteil, are now part of the art-filled hotel’s collection.
5.Take in the New Year’s fireworks which dazzle over the waters of the Venetian lagoon. A great way to start the evening (and say goodbye to 2019) is with dinner at a sumptuous restaurant along the Grand Canal, like the Gritti Palace’s Club del Doge, which is planning a very festive December 31st dinner. The menu will include a range of luxe tastes like a lobster and caviar starter and pumpkin risotto with truffles, among other scrumptious offerings. To kick off the evening there’s a Champagne and oyster tasting in the hotel’s Longhi Bar and at midnight a lentil dish will be served–according to Italian tradition the legumes are thought to bring good fortune in the New Year. (For information and reservations, tel. +39 041 794611)
6.Enjoy the holiday sounds of Venice. Like Vienna, Venice has a famous New Year’s Concert, which is broadcast live on January 1 from the Teatro La Fenice. This is a book-way-in-advance ticket, as the Teatro’s site shows, but check it for other programs, including opera (Don Carlo, La Traviata) and concerts (with top conductors like Myung-Whun Chung, Claus Peter Flor and Daniel Cohen) in December and January. For additional concerts and performances in the city during December and January go to MusicInVenice.com.

        ROME
      
7.See the lighting of the Vatican Christmas Tree. Rome’s answer to New York’s Rockefeller Center stunner sparkles in St. Peter’s Square. This is a fairly recent tradition, started by Pope John Paul II, who was from Poland and introduced the Northern European custom to the Vatican in 1982. The tree lighting is on Saturday, December 7.
8.Go to Christmas Eve mass at St. Peter’s Basilica. It’s the season’s hottest ticket and hard to get even though the basilica can hold up to 15,000 people, but you can try faxing requests to the Prefecture of the Papal Household (which recommends doing so from two to six months in advance). The fewer tickets you ask for, the higher your chance of getting them. The mass, conducted by Pope Francis, is sometimes referred to as midnight mass, but it starts at 9:30 PM. No ticket required to see the mass televised to the large-screens set up in St Peter’s Square, which thousands turn up for. 
9.Attend a concert in a Roman setting you’ll never forget. The Palazzo Doria Pamphilj is one of the Eternal City’s most magnificent palaces and an art-filled landmark—masterpieces in the collection include works by Titian and Raphael. Concerts are held in the palazzo at different times of the year, but one with a special holiday appeal is the New Year’s Eve Baroque Concert. (It is scheduled for 3 PM in the Throne Hall, so there’s plenty of time for evening revelry to welcome in 2020).
10.Greet the New Year overlooking Rome. If you’re one to muse about how fast the year or years have gone by on December 31, it’s hard to beat doing so with champagne flute in hand taking in nighttime views of the Eternal City with its centuries-spanning sites. The Hassler Roma, that spectacularly well-located five-star hotel perched above the Spanish Steps, has some great options for welcoming the New Year with those incomparable vistas: Guests at the hotel can toast 2020 in the Terrazza Panoramica on the seventh floor starting 11 PM; both guests and non-guests can book a lavish New Year’s Eve dinner at the Michelin-starred Imàgo, which also provides a striking vantage point from which to take in the night skyline of Rome. And if you want to start 2020 in grand style, the hotel is offering a special three-day New Year’s package—in addition to the luxe dinner at Imàgo or in the hotel’s Salone Eva on December 31 (followed by dancing at midnight), there’s afternoon tea, in-room Champagne, and a chaffeur to whisk you to and from the airport.

        MILAN
      
11.Check out BookCity Milan. Fashion and design may dominate the spotlight here, but the city, former home of Alessandro Manzoni, author of one of the classics of Italian literature, I Promessi Spossi, celebrates all things literary each November with BookCity Milan (this year from the 13th to the 17th). This major book-fest, with some 1500 events and 3000 authors, will offer a full slate of readings, lectures and performances, held at venues throughout the city. One sure to be well-attended event is The Friendship Tour, where best-selling UK authors, Jojo Moyes, Kate Mosse, Ken Follett and Lee Child talk about their recent work and their connections to the European Community during the age of Brexit. 
12.Pay homage to an Italian cinema great. The Fellini Fellini exhibit celebrates one of the greatest directors in cinema history, Federico Fellini, on the centenary of his birth (in 1920). Movie memorabilia, including drawings (Fellini, who was born in Rimini, began his career as a cartoonist and humor writer), scripts, photos and videos commemorating the five-time Oscar winner’s career (his first Oscar nomination was as screenwriter for Roberto Rossellini’s Rome, Open City) will be on display at the Palazzo Reale in Milan’s city center from December 16, 2019 to February 2020.

        GENOA
      
13.Welcome in the New Year in a historic palazzo by taking in priceless art (Rubens, Van Dyck, Dürer, Caravaggio) in the splendid palaces of the Musei di Strada Nuova (Palazzo Rosso, Palazzo Bianca and Palazzo Tursi). They will be open on New Year’s Eve (until 1 AM) and guided tours with midnight toasts will be available. The Palazzo Tursi will have a concert starting at 9:30 PM.

        VARIOUS CITIES
      
14, 15, 16. Make time for a Raphael show. Numerous exhbits this year marked the 500th anniversary of Leonardo da Vinci’s death. Now it is Raphael’s turn (the great Renaissance painter died a year after Leonardo in 1520) with quincentennial shows planned or underway in different cities in Italy and abroad. “Raffaello 2020” at the Museo della Permanente in Milan presents the artists’s work and story with hi-tech dazzle in an immersive multi-media show (through February 2, 2020). “Raphael and His Friends of Urbino” at the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche in Urbino, his home town, runs through January 19, 2020. Next year at the Scuderie del Quirinale, an event space in the presidential palace in Rome, “Raffaello” will showcase important works, many on loan from the Uffizi (March 5-June 14, 2020).
