
# Amazon Is Poorly Vetting Alexa's User-Submitted Answers

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:10:00+00:00**

Author: **BeauHD**

Original: [tech.slashdot.org](https://tech.slashdot.org/story/19/11/01/2129204/amazon-is-poorly-vetting-alexas-user-submitted-answers?utm_source=rss1.0mainlinkanon&utm_medium=feed)

An anonymous reader quotes a report from VentureBeat: Alexa, Google Assistant, Siri, and Cortana can answer all sorts of questions that pop into users' heads, and they're improving every day. But what happens when a company like Amazon decides to crowdsource answers to fill gaps in its platform's knowledge? The result can range from amusing and perplexing to concerning. Alexa Answers allows any Amazon customer to submit responses to unanswered questions. When the web service launched in general availability a few weeks ago, Amazon gave assurances that submissions would be policed through a combination of automatic and manual review. But an analysis of public Alexa Answers data conducted by VentureBeat shows that untrue, potentially sponsored, and offensive questions and answers are accepted and served to the over 100 million Alexa-enabled devices sold to date. We've asked Amazon for more information about how Alexa Answers works, but the company has so far been cagey about the details. It's unclear why some questions designated "live" on the Alexa Answers dashboard are served to Alexa users while others aren't. In our testing, most questions and answers worked when we tried them, regardless of their status. Some questions and answers we submitted to Amazon during our investigation have since been removed, and we expect that at least some of the examples [mentioned in the article] will be, too. When contacted for comment, an Amazon spokesperson said: "High quality answers are important to us, and this is something we take seriously -- we will continue to evolve Alexa Answers."
