
# Man City boss Pep Guardiola backtracks on 'diving' claim about Liverpool star Sadio Mane

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:09:23+00:00**

Author: **David McDonnell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-mcdonnell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-city-boss-pep-guardiola-20818956)

Pep Guardiola was forced into a humiliating climbdown over his controversial claim that Liverpool forward Sadio Mane is a diver.
Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp hit back at Guardiola, ahead of the title showdown with Manchester City at Anfield on Sunday, defending Mane and insisting he is not a con artist.
But Guardiola, speaking ahead of City's Champions League tie with Atalanta on Wednesday night, reneged on his original remarks on Mane, admitting he was wrong with his remarks.
“My son and my daughter, all the times when Liverpool win, say just how lucky, how lucky they are,” said Guardiola.
“I said it's not lucky, what Liverpool have done in these last minutes, they have an incredible squad.
"It can happen once or twice, but this is many times. Then, in the 94th minute against Leicester , it was 'wow like this or like that for the penalty?'.
"It was far from my intention to say Sadio is like that. I admire him a lot. I was the wrong guy to think it wasn't a penalty.
"Like Jurgen says, he knows Sadio better than me. With Jurgen he tries to be positive, when he says it’s not like this. But my comments, what I said, was longer than the highlight, it was a praise for Liverpool, to say it was not just one action.
"It happens many times because they continue to push, so hopefully I can clarify everything that Jurgen said."
Mane was booked for diving before scoring a 94th-minute winner in Liverpool's 2-1 win at Aston Villa on Saturday.
