
# MSPs call for UEFA football ticket tout laws to be extended across major events in Scotland

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Andy Philip, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/andy-philip/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/msps-call-uefa-football-ticket-20818400)

A new law targeting ticket touts at Euro 2020 games in Scotland should be extended beyond the football tournament, MSPs demanded.
The Scottish Government is pushing through new rules to impose fines up to £5000 on greedy touts seeking to profit out of the UEFA games.
But the SNP have put off appeals to immediately extend the plans to protect all fans routinely ripped off at concerts and other events.
 
The Daily Record has been leading the fight through our Stub out the Touts campaign, exposing some of the worst offenders targeting Scots fans.
Lib Dem MSP Mike Rumbles called for action in a debate on the UEFA European Championship Bill on Tuesday.
He said: “Ticket touts have been making a pretty penny out of people for far too long.
“This is an industry that routinely fleeces people and much more needs to be done to promote fair access to events and protect consumers.
“People will wonder why the approach being taken to the Euros next year couldn't be the norm.”
The Bill was only introduced to the Scottish Parliament at the end of September to govern four matches held at Hampden Park from June 15 to 30.
It will become a crime to tout tournament tickets for profit in person, through secondary resale sites of privately.
Three event zones will be created in Glasgow, including George Square and the Merchant City.
MSPs unanimously backed the general principle in a vote at Holyrood on Tuesday night.
Joan McAlpine, who led scrutiny of the bill with a committee of MSPs, said she wants the government to draw up another bill to cover major events.
And Tory culture spokeswoman Rachael Hamilton said: “The Scottish Conservatives want to see the worst ticket touters stopped.
“We know that ticket touting prevents low income groups and families from enjoying sport and music events.
“We would support legislation, similar to the UEFA Bill, which would reduce the number of people ticket touting.
“We must ensure fairness so that sport etc can be enjoyed by all.”
Government minister Ben Macpherson, outlining his plans, would only commit to scrutinising how the new plans work in practice, then consider new legislation.
“We will learn from the successful delivery of this legislation, and think about how a major events framework bill could work in the future,” he said.
In a statement to the Record, the government previously claimed wider legislation overlapped with Westminster powers.
“This Bill does not affect the rights or obligations of people buying or selling tickets or the existing law relating to secondary ticketing and so does not fall under consumer protection, which is generally reserved to Westminster. We will evaluate how the legislation for Euro 2020 as a whole has worked in practice after the event,” the government said.
