
# Calgary astronaut Jenni Sidey-Gibbons finishes space boot camp

Published at: **2019-11-02T23:23:58+00:00**

Author: **Alanna Smith**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/calgary-astronaut-jenni-sidey-gibbons-finishes-space-boot-camp)

Before Calgary astronaut Jenni Sidey-Gibbons can walk on the moon, she had to learn how to walk underwater in a 127-kilogram spacesuit.
Sidey-Gibbons, who was chosen to join Canada’s elite rank of astronauts in 2017, marked the end of a rigorous two-year basic training course in August.
But training never really ends for the nation’s cosmic explorers.
Now that boot camp is complete, she can be assigned to a mission or start mission-specific training, but Sidey-Gibbons said launching into space is still a dream with no guarantee.
“I think anyone in our corps would absolutely love to go, but when? That’s really hard to know,” she said.
“For me, it would mean a lot, just based on the experiences I’ve had in the past couple years of hearing what it means for Canadians. I think we are really proud of the fact that we are a small nation, population-wise, that is spacefaring and that we have this really exploratory spirit.”
Her current role revolves around supporting current and future astronauts by developing procedures for people working in space and testing different hardware astronauts would use.
The mechanical engineer and combustion scientist was already a force to be reckoned with, but over the past two years, she’s added the Russian language, spacewalking and a deep understanding of the International Space Station to her resumé.
In preparation for working in zero-gravity, a significant amount of her time was spent in the Sonny Carter Training Facility’s neutral buoyancy lab in Houston.
“It’s no moonwalk, but it brought me one (small) step closer to the most exciting adventure,” Sidey-Gibbons wrote on day one of spacewalk training, in an allusion to words spoken by Neil Armstrong upon taking his historic first step on the moon in 1969.
Essentially, she was suited up and went diving in a really deep pool, where scuba divers added weights or flotation devices to her suit to simulate weightlessness or neutral buoyancy.
It’s the closest someone can get to microgravity on Earth.
“It’s certainly challenging,” she said. “In this pool, there’s this full-size mock-up of the outer portion of the ISS and mock-ups for every tool we would use in space. You can really can go down there with your spacewalking training buddy and go through an entire spacewalk, pretty much start to finish.”
Sidey-Gibbons said the most fascinating aspect of the space program is international collaboration and how learning the Russian language and training continues the legacy and “unlikely partnership” between the former space race rivals.
As part of Canada’s participation in the Lunar Gateway Project, Sidey-Gibbons will be travelling the nation to get young Canadians excited about space exploration as part of the Junior Astronauts Campaign.
She said the program will focus on three streams aligned with the tenants of astronaut training: fitness and nutrition, science and technology and teamwork and community.
If Sidey-Gibbons takes her place among the stars, she will be the third Canadian female astronaut to do so following in the footsteps of scientist Roberta Bondar and Julie Payette, now Canada’s governor-general.
“It would certainly be a dream of mine,” she said.

        alsmith@postmedia.com
      
Twitter: @alanna_smithh
