
# O'Gara: Why 'it's probably better' that Sexton doesn't captain Ireland

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:40:03+00:00**

Author: **Ian Cameron**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/ogara-why-its-probably-better-that-sexton-doesnt-captain-ireland)

Former Ireland 10 Ronan O’Gara has suggested that he doesn’t think Jonathan Sexton is the natural choice for the Irish captaincy.
An Ireland team steered at 10 by Sexton were knocked out of the Rugby World Cup after a humbling loss to New Zealand in what was yet another disappointing quarter-final exit for the men in green.
While they enjoyed a fierce and at times bitter rivalry on the pitch, the pair became fast friends off it after they shared time at Racing 92, where O’Gara coached Sexton from 2013-2015.
With Rory Best retiring from the game, O’Gara believes the time is right for Sexton to step to the side to allow someone else take over the captaining of the team.
“Johnny is at the other end of the spectrum, I think he is 34. An outhalf, a good outhalf, is always a good leader in his own right, does he need the captaincy?,” O’Gara told Virgin Media Ireland’s Nathaniel Cope.

        Click here to see the video
      
“I am not too sure, in the fact that he has so much else on his plate trying to drive the team around the pitch.
“With that you have an awful lot of media work, you have an awful lot on; for example even the coin toss interrupts your routine before a game. Whether he is the official captain or not, he is going to be one of three people hugely important in the dressing room.
“So from my point of view I think it’s probably better that the number 10 isn’t the captain, I think it’s better that you have a forward as captain.”
Many people’s choice for captain is the 23-year-old James Ryan. A darling of the Irish media after three monumental seasons with Ireland and Leinster, Ryan is the odds on favorite to take over as Ireland skipper.
