
# Billionaire Leon Cooperman Escalates Feud With Elizabeth Warren

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rachel Sandler**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/rachelsandler/2019/11/04/billionaire-leon-cooperman-escalates-feud-with-elizabeth-warren/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2797464793&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

Topline: Wall Street is worried about Elizabeth Warren—and one of her most outspoken critics, billionaire hedge fund founder Leon Cooperman, continued to admonish the progressive 2020 candidate in a Monday interview with CNBC for her “vilification” of the ultrarich, saying that “what she’s peddling is bull, total and complete bull.” 
Crucial quote: “She’s screwing around with the wrong guy. I want to give it all away, but I want to control the decision. I don’t want the government giving away my money. The idea of vilifying wealthy people is so bogus,” Cooperman said in the CNBC interview.
Key background: The feud between Cooperman and Warren began last week and has since escalated into a heated back-and-forth. The first blow came after Cooperman told Politico he thinks Warren’s rhetoric against billionaires is “sh*tting” on the “f*cking American dream.” Warren responded in a tweet, saying that Cooperman should “pitch in a bit more so everyone else has a chance at the American dream.” 
And then later, Cooperman wrote a five-page letter to Warren where he likened that tweet to a “parent chiding an ungrateful child.” In the letter, he also praised how wealthy people like himself donate their fortunes to philanthropic causes and took issue with Warren’s numbers underpinning her wealth tax proposal. 
News peg: Warren and Vermont senator Bernie Sanders are tapping into a wave of anticapitalist and anti-billionaire sentiment on the progressive left, propelling them to the top of some recent polls. Warren’s populist message in particular has rattled those on Wall Street.
