
# Nicole Scherzinger plunges X Factor: Celebrity into chaos by breaking rules

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:15:45+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/nicole-scherzinger-plunges-x-factor-20801114)

Nicole Scherzinger raised eyebrows on the latest edition of X Factor: Celebrity by breaking some of the show's biggest rules.
The singing contest returned for its second live show on Saturday night with the celebrities battling it out once again in the hopes of landing a record contract from Simon Cowell.
But as the show went on, judge Nicole was accused of not taking the competition as seriously as she should have been.
She first caused controversy by going against her own acts and giving a rival a much-needed boost.
Nicole used the new 'safe seat' feature to give rugby stars Try Star a guaranteed place in next year's show as opposed to a singer in her own category.
The trio, made up of rugby stars Ben Foden, Thom Evans and Levi Davis, are in Simon Cowell's category but he had already given his safe seat to his other group - Love Islanders No Love Lost.
Nicole claimed she was so moved by the sportsmen's rendition of Swing Low Sweet Chariot - that came after the England rugby team lost the World Cup Final - that she threw the rule book out the window.
Questioning her motives for sending a rival act through, shocked host Dermott said Nicole had 'opened a whole can of whoop a**.'
"I just had to do it for England and I had to do it for the boys," shrugged Nicole.
But there was more controversy to come.
The former Pussycat Doll jumped out of her seat and walked away from the panel after a shock elimination.
In a dramatic climax to the show, Martin Bashir was saved by the public vote after Simon Cowell refused to have a say.
When the cameras turned back to the judges chairs, Nicole was nowhere to be seen.
 
As Louis Walsh went to join his act Johnny Labey - on stage, Simon was caught on camera sitting alone in the studio.
Fans began to wonder if she'd stormed off in an outrage at the decision.
However, it later appeared Nicole had dashed off to comfort her act Victoria Ekanoye was booted off first.
Elsewhere, some viewers also accused the Love Island contestants of miming during their rendition of Would I Lie To You? by Charles and Eddie.
"Been watching this for 5 minutes and can already see that love island group are miming," scathed one.
Another fired: "Omg are love island band MIMING the chorus?"
"Little tip to the Love Islanders... If you wanna convincingly mime, maybe start with actually holding the microphone to your mouth?!" quipped a third.
Mirror Online has contacted ITV representatives for comment.
