
# 'Manipulative' mum accused of baby's murder sets up crowdfunder for funeral costs

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:33:39+00:00**

Author: **Chris Murphy, Ben Weich**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/manipulative-mum-accused-babys-murder-20802369)

A mother accused of killing her baby has been slammed as “manipulative” for setting up a GoFundMe account for the tot’s funeral, netting her thousands of dollars.
Police in Florida were called in when the baby boy was found unresponsive.
Local news station ABC Action News reports that the mother is charged with first-degree murder following the death of her baby boy.
According to reports, the Clearwater Police Department confirmed Victoria Jackson was arrested Friday after confessing to the crime during questioning by homicide detectives.
Police said Jackson told police in May she found her ten-month old called Malachi unresponsive in his crib.
First responders took the infant to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
 
At that time, investigators said the cause of death was as yet undetermined as they investigated Jackson's story.
But now, police have said they learned Jackson allegedly confessed to a friend that she in fact placed a pillow over the baby's face and asphyxiated him.
Clearwater Police confirmed to the news channel that following the baby's death, Jackson started a GoFundme for funeral expenses and collected thousands of dollars for it.
The fund raised $4,300 before it was closed down as the controversy spread.
One contributor, Marah Gonzales told the channel: "Tragedy is a time where you need to be the most compassionate and loving and kind and she totally just took advantage of that. No one knew the real story of what happened other than her and whatever friend that she told.
"It was just kind of so manipulative to the point she was consistently reaching out and consistently like please donate to this, and this, but with very, very little details."
Gonzales, who said she knew Jackson in high school, added: “It’s definitely a tragedy but it’s definitely like a sobering thing to understand things like this do happen and it’s tragic and it’s how can we as a community get better from it like how can we grow from it.”
The news channel said Jackson had her first court appearance on Saturday and remained in the Pinellas County jail without bond.
