
# Paul Grayson column: England's four key issues to combat to win Rugby World Cup

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Grayson**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/paul-grayson-column-englands-four-20790344?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

The night before the last Rugby World Cup final England won I wrote a letter to the guy who would have such a big hand in securing it.
On the eve of such a momentous occasion in such an emotionally charged environment it is sometimes easier to write your thoughts down than express them out loud.
So I put pen to paper. I talked about various things that had happened in our lives. But ultimately my message was that, while my role was to support from the sidelines that night in Sydney, he shouldn’t doubt his right to be on the biggest stage in the biggest game.
“You’ve earned it,” I wrote, before slipping the note under Matt Dawson’s door. “And whatever strength I’ve got is yours for the day to use as you see fit. I’m right there with you, mate.”
The training had all been done. As with England now it was all about emotion and feeling. The following day Daws made the break which put Jonny Wilkinson in range to drop the goal that won the cup.
I can well imagine similar feelings are swirling around the hotel in Tokyo where Owen Farrell and his team are getting in the right headspace to hopefully deliver a similar outcome.
As with 2003 this is a group of players who have earned their opportunity the hard way. The humiliation of the 2015 World Cup on home soil, England’s worst ever Six Nations finish in 2018.
Out of adversity they have found strength, cohesion, knowledge and understanding. They have grown into a squad which deserves the game’s highest accolade. If they can only hit the right emotional pitch.
After 16 years it is time England did it again. The country needs new heroes. The game of rugby in England needs another World Cup.
Nobody who saw the two semi-finals will doubt that Eddie Jones’ side are worthy favourites and should have too much for South Africa. But sport does not always go to plan. So let’s consider the key issues.
Jones has named an unchanged team for the first time since March 2016. Right call to keep George Ford at fly-half? Yes, absolutely. We have the power to confront South Africa across our team. But confrontation is not enough.
We need the guile and the kicking game and the relationship between Ford and Farrell gives England so many options in terms of how to control the game.
England can play a number of ways with those two, not withstanding the fact Damian de Allende is going to get the ball and go looking to do to Ford what he did to Dan Biggar - drive into his midriff, carry him back five metres and get SA on the front foot.
From an England point of view I don’t care if they do that. Have your five metres, what are you going to do now? Because all they did against Wales was get over the gainline and kick it in the air. It’s not leading to a torrent of front foot carries that your defence can never recover.
South Africa will know that if they get Ben Youngs out of the game England will have to turn to Ben Spencer, who is new in town and has never started a Test. Jones will be talking to referee Jerome Garces about this, saying: ‘You’ve got to protect our scrum-half here. They can’t be hitting Youngs late’.
What else can England do? Well, in boxing parlance use all four corners of the ring to stay away from the big right hand. Pull South Africa around and play a way that means they can’t expend energy trying to get after the No.9 because they don’t know where the ball’s going next.
Wales were complicit in dragging themselves into it. The way South Africa set up defensively Wales didn’t find it difficult to get outside both their wingers in the first half. They looked dangerous and made line breaks, only to too often give the ball back.
England will have identified that it’s not that complicated to get outside them, it’s about what you do then. Once you make a line break where do you go so that they don’t get an opportunity to hurt you and how do you keep the squeeze on.
The answer is by creating ‘soft edges’, working spaces across the field with close and wide power runners, picking the moment to put the ball behind the defensive line with a clever kick. Take away their line speed rather than seek out confrontation.
England have got to be smart about the physical match-ups. There’s a time to contest scrums, time to contest a maul. There are other times to let the Boks have it. As Australia will testify, England do some of their best work without the ball.
Finals are almost always tight affairs so discipline is paramount, particularly given the form of goalkicker Handre Pollard. England have had problems in this department in recent years - but not in Japan.
They have a good group dynamic now, in terms of maintaining that self control. A process to deal with flash points. Take that early scrum in the Australia game when the Wallabies were slapping Kyle Sinckler on the head.
A year ago Maro Itoje’s arm would have come over his shoulder and grabbed the Aussie. Here it came over his shoulder, grabbed the Englishman and gently moved him away, then gave Kyle a little man hug.
In the white heat of battle that is so important. Now, even before it happens, Sinckler will be thinking, ‘Maro’s going to give me a hug in a minute. He’s got my back’.
For me the two key guys are Maro and Owen Farrell, who has an air of calm about him out here, having taken that confrontational energy and turned it into a nod of respect and half a grin. Without the red mist he is one hell of a player.
Through good management, excellent work by the backroom staff and great buy-in by the players England have arrived in the right place at the right time with the right team. Now to finish the job.
