
# 51 Best Gifts For Guys, According To Male Reviewers On Amazon

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:11:43+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/51-best-gifts-for-guys-according-to-male-reviewers-on-amazon-19279530)

It's not always easy to shop for people. An example: I always try to come up with novel gift ideas for my boyfriend, but in general, all he wants are socks. And while I also agree that socks are great, they're also a little unoriginal. So instead of buying him yet another pack of black knee-highs when I'm trying to surprise him, I've started looking at all the great gift options for men available on Amazon instead.
If you're struggling with gift ideas — whether it's Christmas, Valentine's day, or a birthday — there are tons of best-sellers on Amazon that are unique. There's a flameless s'mores cooker that lets you pretend you're cooking marshmallows over a campfire (even though you're indoors), and even a vacuum-insulated koozie that keeps your beverages chilled for hours. Besides — who can say no to a waterproof Bluetooth speaker? Considering how many speakers my boyfriend has dropped in the ocean, it's probably time for me to surprise him with an upgrade.
And these stellar Amazon products with near-perfect reviews aren't just for guys, of course — because there's not a person out there who doesn't enjoy a great gift.
Seriously: what's not to love?

        Hatori Mini LED Flashlight$8|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Able to provide up to two hours of light when fully charged, this miniature flashlight also has a clip on the side so you can easily attach it to your belt. It's skid-proof as well as water-resistant, and it's made from high-quality aluminum alloy.

        Nostalgia Indoor Electric S'mores Maker$20|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Simply plug it into any outlet, and this flameless campfire heater will let you cook delicious s'mores in the comfort of your own home. Each order comes with four stainless steel roasting forks, and the stainless steel base is resistant to rust.

        Hydracy Fruit Infuser Water Bottle$17|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Not only does it have an extra-large infusion core where you can add fruits to flavor your water, but this sport water bottle is also designed so that it won't sweat on the outside. It's made from BPA-free, durable Tritan plastic, and it's even 100% leakproof.

        TP-Link Kasa Smart WiFi Plug$17|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Compatible with Amazon's Alexa as well as Google Assistant, this smart Wi-Fi plug lets you control your devices using your voice so that you can easily turn your lights, appliances, and more on or off. Unlike other smart plugs, this one lets you set a schedule so that your devices turn on or off at regular intervals.

        RTIC Stainless Steel Can Cooler$21|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Simply pop your canned beverage into this can cooler, and the vacuum-insulated design will ensure that it stays chilled for hours. The exterior won't sweat so that your hands stay dry, plus it's completely BPA-free — and boasts over 5,000 reviews.

        Van Der Hagen Unscented Shave Soap (3-Pack)$14|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
If you find that your skin easily becomes irritated while you shave, try soothing it before and after using this shave soap. It's great for softening your facial hair so that your razor glides over your skin, plus it's moisturizing so that your skin is left feeling soft.

        Amazon Essentials Leather Moccasin Slipper$22|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
If you're looking to keep your feet cozy in the cold winter months, try wearing these moccasin slippers. They're made with a rubber sole so that you won't slip if you wear them outside to get the mail, plus the inside is lined with premium faux fur, while the upper portion is 100% genuine suede.

        Aria Starr Dead Sea Mud Mask$15|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
If you're looking to get rid of blackheads, minimize the appearance of pores, or even just combat oily skin, try this mud mask. Not only is it made with real mud — which is packed with minerals like zinc and magnesium — but it also stimulates blood flow in your skin so that your complexion is left looking clear and refreshed.

        FAMILIFE Stainless Steel Manicure Set$12|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
You've all seen a pair of nail clippers that's gotten rusty over time, whereas this manicure set is made from stainless steel that's resistant to rust. Each set comes with practically everything you'll need to groom your fingernails and toenails, plus the travel case is made from high-quality PU leather.

        O'Keeffe's Working Hands Combination Pack$15|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
This combination pack of hydrating cream is a cult-favorite for a reason: use one on your hands if they're dry from the weather or wear, and slather the other on heels if they've become cracked. Neither of these creams will leave greasy residue on your skin, and the formula is completely hypoallergenic. It also creates a moisture barrier between you and the elements — perfect for the cold or if you work in a job where you have to wash your hands a lot.

        Prepworks from Progressive Tower Fry Cutter$20|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
You can use it to make delicious French fries, or you can use this tower slicer to quickly slice up carrots, onions, and more. The non-skid base ensures that it stays firmly put while you slice up veggies, plus it's designed to keep your hands far away from the blades so that there's little risk of accidentally cutting yourself.

        LifeStraw Personal Water Filter$18|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Able to filter up to 1,000 liters of contaminated water, this personal water filter sets itself apart from the competition by getting rid of 99.9999% of bacteria and parasites. It's perfect for camping, hiking, or any other outdoor activity — and one reviewer wrote it made brown water taste "better than any tap."

        AeroPress Coffee And Espresso Maker$30|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
It only takes about 30 seconds, and this handy coffee and espresso machine can make up to three cups of coffee without any bitterness. The microfilter gets rid of any grit or grounds so that they don't wind up in your final cup of joe, and one reviewer noted that it's "FREAKING CHEAP compared to owning a whole counter full of coffee appliances."

        VicTsing Bluetooth Speaker$14|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Not only is it completely waterproof, but this Bluetooth speaker can stay connected to any Bluetooth-enabled device from up to 33 feet away. It's able to provide up to six hours of music when fully charged, and there's even a suction cup on the back so that you can use it in the shower.

        EarthWise Mesh Produce Bags (9-Pack)$14|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Unlike other produce bags, these mesh produce bags allow barcodes to scan through them so that you don't have to unpack each bag when it's time to go through the check-out, plus they're reusable so that they help save you money over time. Snag these if you're tired of wasting plastic.

        The Food Lab: Better Home Cooking Through Science$49.95$38.27|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
This cookbook — written by J. Kenji López-Alt — has both recipes and techniques, but also explains the science behind tried-and-true techniques. Grab this for the person who already likes to cook, but wants to level up (and tell them it won a James Beard award).

        Conair Fabric De-Fuzzer$12|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
No one likes finding lint and pills on their clothes, so use this fabric de-fuzzer to get rid of it. There are three different depth settings to choose from depending on the fabric you're shaving, plus the lint catcher is detachable so that it's easy to clean.

        BAGAIL Compression Packing Cubes (4-Piece Set)$25|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Made from premium nylon that's resistant to tears, this set of packing cubes is an easy way to make sure your luggage is always neat and organized. Each order comes with four cubes in varying sizes, plus they're even water-repellant so that your clothes stay dry if anything leaks. They even have a handle to easily move them around if needed.

        J-Pillow Travel Pillow$30|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
No matter where you're traveling, this adjustable travel pillow will keep your head and neck supported so that it's easy to fall asleep. You can mold and twist it into a variety of positions depending on how you like to sleep, and it's made from super-soft fabric that feels plush against your skin.

        CRUNCHCUP Portable Cereal Cup$25|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
There isn't always time for a bowl of cereal in the morning, so take your bowl of cereal with you by using this cereal cup. There are two separate compartments for milk and cereal so that the cereal doesn't become mushy, and once you tip it toward your mouth, they combine into one stream so it's like you're eating a regular bowl of cereal.

        BambooWorx Sushi Kit$8|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Instead of spending money on expensive delivery sushi, make your own at home using this sushi rolling kit. This kit comes with two full-size rolling mats — as well as a rice spoon and spreader — plus it's made from eco-friendly bamboo that's exceptionally durable.

        Vikings Blade Safety Razor$29|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Not only does it come with its own leatherette case, but this safety razor also provides a clean shave that's up to 150% smoother than disposable razors. One Amazon reviewer even raved that the extra weight in this razor "makes your strokes feel a little more controlled as the razor encounters resistance."

        BYRIVER Acuppressure Flip Flops $25|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
You only have to wear them for 15 minutes, and these acupressure flip flops can help soothe away pain from plantar fasciitis, or even just pain from sore muscles. The top strap is adjustable so that you can choose how tight or loose they fit, and they're great for stimulating blood flow throughout your feet.

        LEEBS Whiskey Stones Gift Set$26|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Not only do you get two large glasses, but this whiskey gift set also comes with solid granite cubes that will keep your whiskey cold without watering it down. You also get a pair of tongs so that you can easily remove the cubes when you're done drinking, and each kit comes in a gorgeous wooden gift box.

        The Shave Well Company Shower Mirror$13|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Shaving in the shower is more convenient than doing it in the sink, so use this shower mirror so that you can make sure you got every bit of unwanted hair. Each order comes with an adhesive hook so that it's easy to hang, and unlike other mirrors, this one won't get foggy from steam.

        MABUA Cast Iron Skillet$17|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Perfect for searing proteins as it is for mac and cheese, this cast iron skillet arrives pre-seasoned so that you can immediately start cooking. Each order comes with a silicone handle grip, silicone pan mat, and two pan scrapers, plus you can even use it to cook overtop campfires.

        Shacke Travel Duffel$30|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Whether you're in need of a gym bag, airplane carry-on, or a weekend bag, this duffel fits the bill. It has a separate compartment where you can store your dirty shoes, and the water-resistant inner liner helps keep your belongings safe from damage.

        Repel Travel Umbrella $23|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Made with a Teflon coating that helps repel water, this travel umbrella also has fortified ribs that flex with the wind so that it doesn't turn inside-out in strong gusts. It folds down super-compact so that it can easily fit into your backpack or purse, and unlike other umbrellas, this one dries almost instantly.

        LASUNEY Bluetooth Earbuds$40|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
You could shell out hundreds of dollars for AirPods, or you could get these wireless Bluetooth earbuds for a fraction of the price instead. These earbuds come with their own charging case so you don't have to spend money on extra accessories, plus they can play music for up to seven hours when fully charged.

        Gimars Keyboard Wrist Pillow$12|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Made with super-soft memory foam that contours to the shape of your wrist while you type, this keyboard wrist pillow is an easy way to help prevent carpal tunnel syndrome — and keep you comfortable as you type. Each order also comes with a bonus pillow for your mouse, and the non-skid rubber base prevents it from sliding out of place as your arm moves.

        Amazon Essentials Plaid Flannel Shirt$18|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Not only is it available in orange, black, blue, red, and a variety of other colors, but this flannel shirt is also made from 100% soft cotton. It's a mid-weight flannel that won't leave you feeling overheated underneath a warm jacket, plus the barrel cuffs give it a classic look.

        Settlers Of Catan Board Game$36|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Designed for people aged 10 and older, this super-popular board game is great for parties, or even just a family game night. The goal is to build up your city in order to take over the most land, however other players can try to block your expansion in order to further their own goals.

        Brickell Men's Products Advanced Face Care Set$77|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
This set of facial products is a great deal and a great gift. Each order comes with a a face scrub, wash, and moisturizer, plus they're made with aloe as well as jojoba oil so that your skin is left feeling extra-soft. It's great for dry skin, and prevents irritation and adds back moisture to the skin. One reviewer wrote: "So far I've been using this product everyday. My skin doesn't have the dry patches as much as before."

        RELAX EDEN Weighted Blanket$100|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
A weighted blanket is a fantastic purchase if you have trouble sleeping — the added weight feels like a warm hug. You can put the polyester cover on to feel warm in the cold winter months, or you can use without the cover when the weather gets warm. It's filled with glass micro-beads throughout so that the weight is evenly distributed, plus it's even hypoallergenic.

        Home Hero Knife Set $40|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
This knife set not only comes with its own acrylic knife block, but you also get a pair of scissors, pizza knife, vegetable peeler, and even a knife sharpener. It's also a nice centerpiece for a countertop, and all the knives are made from sturdy stainless steel.

        Hercules Tuff Charging Station$40|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Instead of letting your cables and devices get tangled together, try using this charging station to keep all your wires, smartphones, tablets, and more organized. Each order comes with four lightning cables, one type- C cable, as well as one micro-USB cable, plus the quick-charge ports can power your devices up to 80% faster than traditional charging bricks.

        Mueller Austria Vegetable Chopper$21|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Made with rust-resistant stainless steel blades, this vegetable chopper is perfect for any home cook who wants to save some time cutting up veggies, cheese, fruit, or even hard-boiled eggs. The container underneath is large enough that it can hold up to 4 cups of your chopped ingredients, plus the entire unit is completely BPA-free.

        Lavince Bluetooth Sleep Headphones$20|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
If you like falling asleep while listening to music, try out these Bluetooth sleep headphones. These headphones can provide up to 10 hours of music when fully charged, and they even keep your ears warm while you run outside. They're breathable so that your ears won't become sweaty at night, plus it only takes two hours for them to be completely charged.

        Mellanni Bed Sheet Set$25|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Made from super-soft microfiber, this set of bed sheets is available in so many colors it would be impractical to list them all here. Each order comes with a fitted and flat sheet, as well as two pillowcases, plus they're also resistant to stains, wrinkles, and fading.

        TaoTronics Humidifier$48|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Made with an extra-large water reservoir that allows it to run for up to 10 hours without needing a refill, this humidifier sets itself apart from the competition by operating at a whisper-level volume. The built-in filter purifies any funky odors from your tap water, and the mist knob rotates so you can choose exactly where it sprays.

        Sunbeam Heating Pad$25|AmazonSee Amazon
      
Made from plush fabric that feels incredibly soft against your skin, this heating pad has four different heat settings to choose from so that it's easy to soothe away pain from sore muscles. The automatic shut-off prevents you from overheating if you fall asleep, plus the power cord is extra-long so that you can easily use it practically anywhere.

        Wurkin Stiffs Magnetic Collar Stays$45|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
If you find your collar going limp throughout the day, try using these magnetic stays to keep them look crisp and upright. All you have to do is insert these stays into your collar, then place the magnets next to them underneath your shirt so that they stay in place.

        Hodman Tools Magnetic Wristband$13|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Instead of trying to keep track of all your nuts, bolts, nails, and other small metal bits, keep them on this magnetic wristband so that they're always conveniently within reach. One size is made to fit all because the Velcro strap is adjustable, plus it's the perfect gift for any casual or avid DIY-er.

        SPORNETTE Boar Bristle Brush$29|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Boar bristles do a better job of distributing your scalp's natural oils throughout your hair than regular nylon bristles, which is why this brush is made with 100% German boar bristles. It's great for helping to tame frizz without adding any greasy serums to your locks, plus the protective ribber cushion helps prevent breakage.

        COUCHCOASTER Drink Holder$25|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Designed to fit any type of mug or cup, this couch coaster is a great alternative for anyone who doesn't want to spend money on an expensive coffee table. It's made from BPA-free silicone that prevents it from sliding all over your couch so that there's little risk of an accidental spill, plus you can even use it to store remotes.

        GOAT Greatest Of All Time Shoe Cleaner Kit$17|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
If your shoes are looking a little worse for wear, use this shoe cleaning kit to get them back to looking almost-new. The cleaning solution in this kit is biodegradable as well as non-toxic, and you can use it on most fabrics, including leather, suede, canvas, vinyl, mesh, and more.

        Achiou Winter Touchscreen Gloves$12|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
No one likes having to take their gloves off to use their touchscreen, so switch over to these gloves instead. Not only do they let you easily use your touchscreen without having to take them off, but they're also breathable so your hands don't become hot. Best of all, there's little triangles of silicone on the palms to keep your phone from slipping.

        Saratoga Outdoor Anti-Fatigue Mat$58|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Whether you're standing at the office or in the kitchen cooking dinner, this floor mat is an easy way to prevent your legs from growing sore over time. The anti-skid surface ensures that you won't slip on it, and each order even comes with a bonus acupressure ball you can use to massage away fatigue in your feet.

        Bostitch Office LED Lamp$38|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Not only does it have a built-in wireless charger in the base, but this LED lamp also has a mode that mimics natural daylight in order to reduce strain on your eyes. The neck is flexible so that you can adjust where the light is pointing, and the optional timer automatically turns it off after 40 minutes.

        ZFiSt Compression Socks (3-Pack)$16|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Wear them on a plane in order to keep your legs from growing sore, or wear these compression socks while you exercise in order to stimulate blood flow to your muscles so that they won't ache. They're also great for alleviating pain from shin splints, and they're extra-breathable.

        NoCry Cut-Resistant Gloves$12|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
My boyfriend has cut himself multiple times using our fancy knife set, which is why I bought him these cut-resistant gloves. These gloves are four times stronger than leather, yet they're also lightweight so that they don't impede your dexterity. You can use them in the kitchen as well as with DIY projects, plus they're 100% food-safe.

        Bustle may receive a portion of sales from products purchased from this article, which was created independently of Bustle's editorial and sales departments.
      
