
# House raises funds for victims of earthquakes

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:44:33+00:00**

Author: **Jester P. Manalastas**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/house-raises-funds-victims-earthquakes)

Speaker Alan Peter “Compañero” Cayetano bared the fund raising endeavor of the House during the Congressional Spouses Foundation, Inc. (CSFI) Giant Christmas Tree 2019 Launch.
According to Cayetano, Davao City Rep. Duterte has already received pledges from several lawmakers to help the survivors of the earthquake.
Parts of Mindanao were struck by strong earthquakes, killing more than 10 people and injuring hundreds.
Speaker Cayetano said that although everyone is looking forward to Christmas already, he asked that Congress as a whole make extra sacrifices to help the victims of the earthquakes that hit Mindanao last October.
“Sobra iyong nawala, hindi lang kagamitan, hindi lang bahay, pero buhay, sa nangyari sa Mindanao.  So maybe I can ask that Congress as a whole do extra sacrifices na makatulong tayo,” he said.
The Speaker said Deputy Speaker Duterte made the rounds of the House last Monday morning to seek help for the victims of the Mindanao earthquakes.
“Si Deputy Speaker Paolo Duterte umikot kaninang umaga. So despite the fact na mayroong siyang activity sa sariling office ngayong lunch, inuna niya talaga iyong  mga naapektuhan ng lindol,” he said.
So far, about 90 House members  have pledged to donate in different amounts, which will be sourced from their respective salaries.
Meanwhile last Sunday, Speaker Cayetano said, in behalf of the 18th Congress, the staff of the Office of the Speaker, with Senator Francis Tolentino and Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) representatives, distributed food packs to the victims of earthquakes.
Moreover, the Speaker said that Rep. Lucy Torres-Gomez, Chairperson of the Committee on Disaster Management, is preparing a Congress Rehabilitation Plan so the House can help the areas in Mindanao that were devastated by the earthquakes.

        Pasig City aid
      
To help victims of earthquakes in Mindanao, the Pasig City government will donate P14-million financial assistance and relief goods.
Pasig Mayor Vico Sotto posted on Facebook and Twitter that the local government unit will send cash donations and relief goods to the affected families.
“Pasig City will be donating relief goods plus P14 million for the victims of the Mindanao quake,” Sotto said in a post Monday night.
The mayor of one of the country’s richest cities said he called for an emergency session yesterday for the formal approval of the donation.
A big portion of the donation worth P9 million will go to some local government units in Cotabato province which were badly hit by the series of deadly earthquakes.
Pasig City will donate P2 million each to the municipalities of Magsaysay and Bansalan, and P1 million to Matanao town, all in Davao del Sur province.
The Municipality of Makilala will receive P3 million, while P2 million each will be given to Tulunan, M’Lang towns, and the City of Kidapawan.
Sotto said the city government have identified the seven LGUs that will get monetary aid through the help of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC).
Earlier, two Metro Manila mayors sent assistance to the earthquake victims in Mindanao.
Manila Mayor Francisco “Isko Moreno” Domagoso donated his P5-million talent fees to the quake-stricken victims, while Marikina Mayor Marcelino “Marcy “Teodoro sent  100 modular tents to evacuation sites in Cotabato for the displaced families.
With Arlene Rivera
