
# There’s only one day left to snag a Nintendo Switch for under £280 on Very

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:06:42+00:00**

Author: **dailyrecord.co.uk**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/entertainment/video-games/video-games-news/theres-only-one-day-left-20825325)

If you’re holding out for the gaming deals that are bound to drop on Black Friday, you may want to consider this one found by savvy shoppers on the Very website .
The popular home shopping website has a massive early Black Friday deal on a Nintendo Switch console and games bundle, reports Birmingham Live .
Shoppers on an extreme bargain-hunting Facebook group spotted the big discount and many have already snapped up the deal.
Very is selling a Nintendo Switch grey console with LEGO Move 2, LEGO DC Super Villains and LEGO Worlds for just £329.99 online - down from £369.99.
The £40 saving makes it one of the best Nintendo Switch bundle deals currently on the market and the retailer is also offering ways to save an extra £50 with a discount code that can be found on the product description page, bringing the overall price down to £279.99.
 
Very also has another Nintendo Switch bundle going for the same deal.
The Nintendo Switch Neon Console comes with Crash Bandicoot N'Sane Trilogy and Minecraft for £329.99 and has the same additional £50 discount offer on the product description page here.
Both deals are still cheaper than a Nintendo Switch with Mario Kart 8 at Currys PC World , which is currently £299, down from £319.99.
Amazon also has the same bundle on offer at £319.99 for Prime members, which will be a hit with those shoppers looking for free, next day delivery.
The Nintendo Switch is one of the world's best-selling consoles. It can be played hooked up to a TV or on the move and it features popular games such as the Mario franchise, Pokemon and LEGO.
If you spend £100 on the Very website , you'll get £10 cash back as part of their huge Christmas launch - enter the code 10BACK  at the checkout. 
