
# Ole Gunnar Solskjaer names Paul Pogba return date as Man Utd star steps up injury recovery

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:38:37+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/ole-gunnar-solskjaer-names-paul-20827312)

Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says "it won't be too long" before Paul Pogba returns from his ongoing ankle injury.
The French World Cup winner has been out of action for the Red Devils since the 1-1 draw against Arsenal at Old Trafford on September 30.
Since then, United have recorded three wins, two draws and two defeats in the seven games they've played in the star midfielder's abensce.
United are in somewhat of a miserable run of form, having suffered a shock 1-0 defeat at Bournemouth on Saturday, and Solskjaer is hoping to call upon Pogba in the coming weeks.
 
"He (Pogba) said it himself," the Norwegian head coach told a press conference. "It won’t be too long until he’s out of his cast. He’ll work hard during the international break and hopefully, he’ll be back."
Meanwhile, Solskjaer wants his players to 'fill their boots' in the Europa League against Partizan Belgrade on Thursday.
United are looking to bounce back from another disappointing result in the Premier League with defeat to Bournemouth on Saturday by qualifying for the knockout stages of the Europa League.
Solskjaer's side have taken seven points from their three games so far but have only scored two goals, while they have managed more than one goal in a Premier League game on just two occasions this season.
The Norwegian said: "We'll have to start tomorrow and hope Partizan don't remember this with joy.
"I played in quite a few games at home and if you get a good start you can fill your boots and hopefully we can get off to a good start tomorrow. Front-foot football.
"We've had so many games where we've been 1-0 up and now it's about, come on, let's go for the second and third because maybe we've taken a step back and said we need to get the result for me, and I'd rather these boys just go for and make a mistake or two."
