
# Fraser Forster reveals the Celtic 'love' that has revitalised wing star Mo Elyounoussi

Published at: **2019-11-04T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Craig Swan, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/craig-swan/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/fraser-forster-reveals-celtic-love-20804448)

Fraser Forster reckons love is all Mo Elyounoussi needed to blossom.
The Norwegian attacker is feeling all the right emotions as he gets his career back on track at Parkhead.
Elyounoussi made it seven goals in seven games for Neil Lennon ’s troops with his double helping to hammer Hibs and book a place in next month’s Betfred Cup Final.
The 25-year-old could have scored five and played a part in two more goals, with his manager calling him outstanding.
Elyounoussi’s fitness and form are building with regular action again but Forster, who is also on loan from Southampton, believes his mate’s form is also down to the therapeutic treatment of feeling appreciated in Glasgow.
Having been taken to St Mary’s by Mark Hughes for £16million, the winger was eased out of the picture when the Welshman was axed and replaced by Ralph Hasenhuttl.
Elyounoussi was then sidelined, left to feel out of the picture and unwanted. Just like Forster did.
At Celtic it’s the polar opposite for the pair. Lennon is thrilled to have them and the keeper insists that’s the key
Forster said: “I’m delighted for Moi. He had a tough year last year as well, it is amazing what a bit of love and confidence can do for you.
“Ever since he scored that first goal he has not looked back. He keeps chipping in and contributing and that’s just fantastic for us.
“It is a positive, multiplying effect. Last year, Moi did not really play much football at all. He has come here and you need that run of games in the team, it’s hard to come in and be expected to do it from day one.
“But he has come in, had a few 90 minutes under his belt and scored and had assists. His confidence can only grow and grow if he is doing that. I am absolutely delighted for him.
 
“I know more than anyone how hard it was for him last year and he just looks like a completely different player.”
Not that it was just Elyounoussi who turned on the style at the National Stadium.
Even captain Scott Brown managed a couple of goals for a team that has now cracked a scintillating 73 in 25 matches at home and abroad this term.
If it’s not Odsonne Edouard, it’s James Forrest, or Elyounoussi, or Callum McGregor, who also netted against Hibs.
Forster watches it all unfold in front of him and loves what he sees. He said: “We have a lot of quality all over the pitch. Look at the attacking positions.
“It’s just good we have lads firing on all cylinders all over the pitch. Moi has excellent quality and so have the other lads. It gives the manager a selection headache but it’s good for us.
“We are just so clinical at the minute, lads are popping up all over. Even Broonie got two and that’s a collector’s item.
“It’s good everyone is chipping in with goals all over the park and hopefully we can keep that going.”
With a 30th successive cup win bagged to seal a Hampden final with Rangers , it’s straight on to the next challenge as attention switches back to the continent and Thursday’s massive match against Lazio.
Celtic currently top Group E after beating the Italians in Glasgow and Lennon’s men could barely be in better shape heading to Rome.
Forster said: “It was good to be creating chances against Hibs.
 
“We could have killed the game off a bit earlier but we did in the end and that’s the main thing. Now we get ready for a big match on Thursday.
“Momentum. That’s the key thing. It was another good performance, we scored a few goals and it just keeps that momentum ticking over. It will be a tough game on Thursday as it’s a tough place to go.
“We obviously want to put in a good performance and keep doing what we have been doing in the Europa League. Can we get a result? Why not? We look at what we have done so far in the Europa League. There is nothing to be scared of if we play the way we know we can play.
“We’re under no illusions how tough it will be. They have some fantastic players but there is nothing to be scared of.
“We just have to go and do our thing. We are in a good vein of form and have put in some fantastic performances. We are under no illusions and it is important we play at a level we know we can play at.
“If we do that there is no reason why we can’t get a positive result. We got a good point away from home in Rennes but Lazio will be another very big test and they are maybe a step stronger than Rennes were.
“We’re expecting Lazio to have a lot of the ball. Hopefully I’m not busy but you never know.
“It will be a good test. We’ll see where we are at.
“All games in the group are tough for different reasons. You would probably say Lazio are going to be the best team. They have so much individual quality. It will be a tough game and one we are not taking lightly.”
