
# The Roots of Balinese Culture | People’s Market Festival | Deus Sunday Sessions | Cool Things To Do in Bali This Weekend (Nov 8-10)

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:06:27+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Bali**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/bali/lifestyle/the-roots-of-balinese-culture-peoples-market-festival-deus-sunday-sessions-cool-things-to-do-in-bali-this-weekend-nov-8-10/)


        
          The Roots of Balinese Culture
        
      
Agung Rai, who founded the Agung Rai Museum of Art (ARMA), will be speaking this Friday at Usada Bali on the very aspect that makes Bali so renowned the world over. ARMA has been known for their support of Indonesian arts and artists, showcasing Agung’s dedication to study and preserve the legacies of Balinese and Indonesian creators since 1996. 
During this talk, participants might get a chance to learn a whole lot from Agung himself and gain insights on the origins of Balinese culture. 

        Friday, Nov 8 at Usada Bali, from 7pm to 8.30pm. Tickets are IDR150k, available for purchase at the door.
      

        
          Festival Pasar Rakyat Denpasar 2019
        
      
Festival Pasar Rakyat, or the People’s Market Festival, will take place this coming weekend at Badung Market in Denpasar. The two-day event promises art and photo exhibitions from local and international artists, as well as music performances, documentary film screenings and various workshops. 
This year, the festival adopts “Harmony in Diversity” as its theme, as the event aims to showcase a spirit of collaboration across different facets of society in the traditional market, who will take part as either audience or performer. 

        Saturday, Nov 9 – Sunday, Nov 10 at Pasar Badung in Denpasar. Free entry, updates and more information can be found on the event’s 
        
          Instagram page.
        
         
      

        
          Texture Detail Watercolor Workshop
        
      
This one’s for those of you out there looking for a little something different to do this weekend. Have you ever considered watercolor painting? Coconuts Bali has certainly mused over the idea, even when we consider ourselves artistically challenged. So if you’re somewhat similar (or just really enthusiastic about art!) this workshop might just be your entryway to gaining a new skill, and perhaps even find some calm and peace in the process. 
The workshop will be led by Yenti, who describes herself as a full-time architect and a free-time artist on Instagram. Just a quick look at her work on the platform is enough to make one eager to learn how to capture moments through the strokes of your hand, no? There’s limited spot for the workshop, so don’t forget to reserve! 

        Sunday, Nov 10 at Xich Lo Bali, from 9am to 11.30am. The workshop costs IDR250k per person, including materials & snacks. To reserve a spot, call +6287762388008. 
      

        
          Sunday Wine & Food Market
        
      
Sundays and wine, you say? Sign us up. The allure of this great combination is no secret, but then you throw in food and market to the mix, making it a little harder to resist. If you’re up for a casual day out this coming Sunday, the Market at VIN+ in Seminyak is a good place to be. Entry is free, and the price is pretty reasonable to enjoy some drinks and food during the occasion. They’re also promising clothes, accessories and second-hand goods stall for the event, as well as tarot reading and live music for entertainment.

        Sunday, Nov 10 at VIN+ Seminyak Bali, from 12pm to 10pm. Wine tasting is IDR100k per person, but there’s IDR50k for wine by the glass. For more information, check out their 
        
          Facebook event page. 
        
        You can also register for the event by emailing 
        
          marketing.bali@vinplus.biz
        
         
      

        
          Deus Sunday Sessions – Manja
        
      
This shouldn’t be the first time you hear of Manja, the Bali-based iconic trio who have been gracing many events on the island with their cool, pop performances. Now, the band plans to release their debut single in January 2020, and as Coconuts Bali’s heard them play several times before, we have a feeling they might become more of a household name sooner rather than later. 
Catch them at Deus Bali’s backyard this Sunday evening, where they will be joined by The Munchies and DJ Dubwill. Happy hours are from 5 to 7pm, and they have 2 for 1 deals for pretty much everything. If you’re planning on attending, do note that they recommend reserving a place if you plan on dining in. 

        Sunday, Nov 10 at Deus Ex Machina Cafe, from 7pm to 12pm. Free entry, reservations for dining can be made via +62811388150
      

        
          Stay up to date with the latest happenings in Bali here!
        
      
