
# Emotional Lewis Hamilton dedicates sixth F1 world title to family and late Niki Lauda

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:21:35+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/formula-1/emotional-lewis-hamilton-dedicates-sixth-20805343)

Lewis Hamilton had to fight back tears after clinching his sixth world title - and then dedicated the triumph to his family and the late Niki Lauda.
Hamilton, 34, finished Sunday's US Grand Prix in second place to clinch another crown that moves him to within one title of Michael Schumacher ’s record haul of seven.
The British hero was understandably emotional on his team radio moments after taking the chequered flag before celebrating by performing donuts in his all-conquering Mercedes.
Hamilton parked up in the spot reserved to celebrate his world championship.
He then lapped up the cheers of the American crowd and ran into the arms of his Mercedes mechanics to celebrate before retrieving a Union flag.
Hamilton's family including father Anthony, the driving force behind Lewis' career, step-mother, Linda and paternal mother Carmen were there to watch his coronation in Austin.
Hamilton said: "It's hard to understand what I'm feeling right now. Naturally, it's just pure happiness and I feel more humble than ever.
"I just saw my parents as I came in and just looking at my dad's smile says it all.
"He supported me from day one - as did Linda, as did my mum. They've worked so hard for me to be here so I really wanted them to come out together.
"I think this the first race I can remember for a long, long time that they've been together and us being united as a family.
"Cloud nine doesn't even get close to where I am. I'm somewhere far above that."
The Brit also thanked F1 icon Lauda, who was a huge influence on Hamilton's career before he passed away earlier this year.
"I miss Niki so much. I know today he will be taking his cap off. I wouldn't have been able to do this without Niki. He's here with us in spirit," he added.
