
# 'Communication was nearly constant': Nikki Haley opens up about working with Trump

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:22:35+00:00**

Author: **Zachary Halaschak**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/communication-was-nearly-constant-nikki-haley-opens-up-about-working-with-trump)

Former United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley wrote in her upcoming book that she had a very good working relationship with President Trump.
In the book, With All Due Respect: Defending America with Grit and Grace, Haley wrote that Trump gave her freedom to “chart her own course” in the role, according to an excerpt from the book released by Axios. She also said that despite policy disagreements, the president always listened to her point of view.
“I could pick up the phone and call the president. Our communication was nearly constant, and it was straightforward,” Haley said. “We didn’t always see eye-to-eye. Sometimes I called to privately express my disagreement with a policy. But he always took the call and he always listened.”
Haley, who served as South Carolina’s governor prior to being appointed, said because of that open stream of communication, she was able to better navigate her role as America’s representative to the U.N.
“I had unusual latitude to operate as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. I was free to largely chart my own course — and I did,” Haley, 47, said. “It was not a typical situation for a U.N. ambassador. But President Trump and I understood each other.
“I knew my responsibility to act in accordance with his objectives. And he trusted me enough to allow me to be flexible with how I executed his wishes,” she added.
The book will be out on Nov. 12.
