
# Batman Star Robert Pattinson Talks Studying the Comics

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:43:08+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/470835-batman-star-robert-pattinson-studying-the-comics-tom-king-periodicals)

It seems like Robert Pattinson is making the most of his time to get ready for his role in Matt Reeves’ The Batman. The upcoming movie will hit theaters in 2021, but in the meantime, Pattinson is gathering as much knowledge as he can about Gotham’s Dark Knight. Speaking with The Big Ticket, Pattinson stressed once more that he feels both excited and nervous about playing Bruce Wayne, but he’s been studying the comics and enjoys reading the “individual periodicals” like those by Tom King.
“I’m glad I’ve had quite a lot of time,” Pattinson said. “I didn’t realize there were so many Batman comics. Hundreds and thousands. But I’ve been reading a lot of those, and not really just the kind of classics. I just like reading this sort of individual periodicals. It’s nice to kind of see the absolutely contemporary ones, the Tom King ones, stuff like that.”
Then Pattinson said that he doesn’t know how much he will “bring in from those comics” when he will wear the cape and cowl, but still he likes assimilating all this information.
“It’s interesting to see what people are sort of expecting, where the character sits now within that world,” he added. “It’s very different from where it sits in terms of the movies people see, I don’t know how much you will even bring in from those comics. I mean, it’s nice to sort of get as much assimilation as you can.”
Even though some fans don’t seem to be happy about his casting, it looks like Pattinson is doing his homework and is taking his upcoming role very seriously. Given the extent of the Dark Knight’s fanbase, it is quite understandable why he feels nervous about being Batman.
The Batman will hit theaters on June 25, 2021. Do you think Robert Pattinson will make a great Batman? Let us know in the comments section below.
