
# U.K. Police Identify All 39 People Found Dead in Truck

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:48:37+00:00**

Author: **Anna Schaverien**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/07/world/europe/essex-lorry-deaths-victims.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

LONDON — All 39 people who were discovered dead in a refrigerated trailer in southeast England last month have been identified, the police said on Thursday.
The authorities did not reveal the names of the victims — eight women and 31 men — whose bodies were found in a trailer in an industrial park in Grays, Essex, on Oct. 23. But the police confirmed that all the people found in the truck were from Vietnam.
The Essex Police, who are leading the investigation into the deaths, said in the statement that they had worked closely with police officers in Vietnam to verify the identities of the victims.
The families of the victims — who were thought to have been part of a human-trafficking operation — were notified, according to the statement.
“It is only right that we provide an opportunity for family members to take in the news confirming the death of their loved ones before releasing any further information,” said Assistant Chief Constable Tim Smith of Essex Police, the senior police officer in charge of the investigation into the deaths.
Mr. Smith described the development as an “important step” in the inquiry.
The police in Vietnam arrested eight people on Monday as part of the inquiry, and the driver of the truck, Maurice Robinson, 25, was charged in Britain with 39 counts of manslaughter, conspiracy to traffic people, conspiracy to assist unlawful immigration, and money laundering.

        Continue reading the main story
      
