
# Looming deadlines: When you need to get those holiday cards, packages in mail

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:00:26+00:00**

Author: **Natalie Dreier, Cox Media Group National Content Desk**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/trending-now/looming-deadlines-when-you-need-to-get-those-holiday-cards-packages-in-mail/1005793146?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

The calendar may say November, but there are deadlines fast approaching for this year's holiday mail.
Military mail that is sent by the United States Postal Service by retail ground, must have been mailed by Nov. 6 to any APO/FPO/DPO AE address if you want it delivered by Christmas Day.
For those same military addresses, it isn't too late to get the well-wishes and care packages in the mail.
For space available mail, you have until Nov. 27.
For parcel airlift mail, the deadline is Dec. 4.
Priority mail and first-class letters and cards have a deadline of Dec. 11 in all military ZIP codes except 093, which has a Dec. 9 deadline.
Priority mail express military service mail can be sent by Dec. 18, except again for ZIP code 093, which is not available.
First-class mail and packages have a deadline of Dec. 20 for regular mail to get to the receivers by Dec. 25.
Priority mail's deadline is Dec. 21
And priority mail express is Dec. 23. 
For USPS retail ground delivery, the deadline is Dec. 14.
For international deliveries, the dates vary depending on where the mail is being sent and does not account for the items going through customs. Also, add time if the item is being delivered outside of a major city.
Here are the following deadlines by region:
Africa
Asia/Pacific Rim
Australia/New Zealand
Canada
Caribbean
Central and South America
Europe
Mexico
Middle East
