
# Global Wine Production 2019 Is Returning To ‘Normal,’ Says Pau Roca Of The OIV

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Per and Britt Karlsson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/karlsson/2019/11/03/global-wine-production-2019-of-263-mhl-is-a-return-to-normal-says-pau-roca-of-the-oiv/)

“Is it an effect of global warming, the big swings in wine production on 2017, 2018 and 2019,” someone in the audience asked. “No,” was the answer from Pau Roca, director-general of the International Organisation of Vine and Wine (OIV). But more important was what he followed up with. “It is too short a time span to be able to draw any such conclusion.Pau Roca was presenting the very first estimations of the global wine production in 2019 at the new OIV headquarters in Paris.
So, back to the global wine production 2019.

        Worldwide wine production in 2019 is back to long term average
      
The world’s total wine production in 2019 is estimated to be 263 million hectolitres (26.3 billion litres, within a span of 258 to 267 Mhl). This is just slightly below the average global wine production over the last ten years of 270 Mhl.
However, it is a drop of 10% compared to the previous year, but 2018 saw a very big wine production of 294 M hl. 2018 was almost a record size harvest.
Compared to 2017, two years ago, 2019 is an increase with 6%, but 2017 was the smallest harvest in a long time.
So this was the background of the question asked initially. We have seen two years of dramatic swings. But it is too early to say what the future will give. In any case, 2019 is more back to “normal.”

        Small wine production in the European Union
      
The European Union accounts for about 60% of the world’s production. 2019 was a difficult year in Europe. The major wine-producing countries had, in general, a spring with rain and frost and a very hot summer, which has affected the quantities.
The top three countries are:
Italy keeps its first place in the ranking as the world’s biggest wine-producing country. All three countries saw dramatic declines, but that is, as mentioned, compared to a very abundant harvest in 2018. All other EU countries had smaller harvests in 2019 compared with the previous year, with the exception of Portugal that increased 10% to 6.7 Mhl
The three biggest countries taken together accounts for about 80% of all European Union wine, and thus almost half of the global total.
Most other countries in the northern hemisphere had a good year. The biggest wine-producing country outside the EU in the north is the United States that had a slightly smaller harvest than 2018 (-1%) of 23.6 Mhl, but this is still on a historic high level (four years in a row). Russia was up 7% to 6 Mhl.

        Southern hemisphere somewhat down but historically stable
      
The overall tendency in the southern hemisphere is similar: a decrease compared to 2018 but in line with the longer-term average.
Argentina is the biggest country here with a wine production 13 Mhl. This is slightly bigger than Australia’s 12.5 Mhl and Chile’s 11.9 Mhl. These three countries maintain their ranking in the top list.
Germany, on the other hand, has lost two places in the ranking, with a harvest that was down 13% to 9 Mhl and is now in 10th position. It has been overtaken by South Africa and possibly China. (China has not yet submitted data so the production is a very uncertain estimation based on other input.)
Here is the list of wine-producing countries with production over 1 million hectolitres:
World total: 263 Mhl.

        All numbers from the OIV report. It should be noted that the numbers are still very preliminary, especially for the northern hemisphere. The numbers also exclude must and juice.
      

        
          —Per Karlsson
        
      
