
# Elizabeth Warren: 'I’m not running some consultant-driven campaign with some vague ideas'

Published at: **2019-11-02T03:18:40+00:00**

Author: **Naomi Lim**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/elizabeth-warren-im-not-running-some-consultant-driven-campaign-with-some-vague-ideas)

DES MOINES, Iowa—⁠ Elizabeth Warren remained defiant after receiving a deluge of criticism over her plan to pay for Medicare for All, standing by her more liberal pitch for the presidency.
"I’m not running some consultant-driven campaign with some vague ideas that are designed not to offend anyone. I’m running a campaign based on a lifetime of fighting for working families. I’m running a campaign from the heart," the Massachusetts senator said in Iowa on Friday.
Warren — speaking to the Iowa Democratic Party's fall fundraiser,⁠ the Liberty and Justice Celebration —⁠ recalled pushing for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and said it reinforced to her the importance of fighting for "big ideas."
"Look, anyone who comes on this stage and doesn’t understand that we’re already in a fight is not the person who is going to win that fight. Anyone who comes on this stage and tells you they can make change without a fight is not going to win that fight. Anyone who comes on this stage and tells you to dream small and give up early is not going to lead our party to victory," the former Harvard Law School professor and financial policy expert said.
Warren lashed out at political elites who would prefer a "safe" approach from the nominee chosen to challenge President Trump for the White House next year.
"If the most we can promise is business as usual after Donald Trump, then we will lose. We win when we offer solutions big enough to touch the problems that are in people’s lives. Fear and complacency does not win elections. Hope and courage wins elections," she said.
Warren, a front-runner, spent Friday fending off criticism over her proposal to pay for Medicare for All. Her campaign's estimated cost to the federal government for the program of $20 trillion over a decade is $14 trillion short of the estimate that the left-of-center Urban Institute released in October.
Under pressure to say how she would cover the costs without a middle class tax hike, the senator floated raising $20 trillion in taxes on employers, financial firms, giant corporations, and the top 1% of earners, including raising $2.3 trillion by cracking down on tax evasion.
