
# Festive season upshifts two-wheeler sales in October

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:36:30+00:00**

Author: **Anirban Mitra**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/festive-season-upshifts-two-wheeler-sales-in-october/articleshow/71866023.cms)

NEW DELHI: Now that Navratra, Diwali and Dhanteras are over, has the festive season provided the much-needed stimulus to the languishing automobile industry? Well, October sales data suggest the temporary arrest of sales paralysis.
There is much to cheer for the two-wheeler market as major players have raked healthy numbers and others have consolidated their stand. Here's a sneak peek at the growth of motorcycle manufacturers in October:

        Hero MotoCorp registers record retail sales during the festive period
      
The world’s largest two-wheeler manufacturer reported record retail sales in the just concluded festive period, starting from Navratra till after Diwali. The company’s highest-ever retail sales in any single calendar month – 12.84 lakh -- was recorded in October 2019. Hero despatched 5.99 lakh units of motorcycles and scooters. Due to the record retail off-take, Hero's inventory levels are now down to 30 days and future despatches are being planned in keeping with market demand, and an official said.
Sanjay Bhan, head of sales, aftersales and parts, Hero MotoCorp said, “The growth in retail sales during the festive period is in line with our plans. First-time buyers, who have always shown a strong preference for the range of products from Hero MotoCorp, have driven this growth. Specific markets such as Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh – where the retail growth has been more than 15% - have also bolstered our overall retail growth during this festive season.
"Our motorcycle sales grew in double digits during this period, with a strong performance from our new range of premium motorcycles. The Pleasure+ scooter also generated substantial volumes during this festive season. We are optimistic about carrying forward the momentum in retail sales," he added.

        Honda two-wheelers India sells over five lakh units in October 2019
      
Riding on the back of strong festive demand from all the regions, Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India crossed five lakh sales mark in October 2019 – the highest for FY’2019-20. Registering 7% growth over September 2019, Honda sold a total of 5,17,808 units in October’19. While domestic sales grew 7% to 4,87,782 units, exports grew by 1% to 30,026 units in October’19.

        Bajaj Auto's motorcycle sales down 14% in October, exports up by 3%
      
The festive season has failed to reverse the negative sales trend for leading bikemaker Bajaj Auto. The Pune-based company reported a 14% decline in its sales of motorcycles in the month of October this year, selling 2,42,516 units of motorcycles against 2,81,582 in the same month last year.
The company, however, witnessed a marginal rise of 3% in exports with a total of 1,56,397 units shipped to various countries during this period. In the commercial vehicle segment also, the sales declined with domestic and export delivery together falling 13% to 64,295 units.

        TVS Motor sales down by over 18% in October, exports up 20%
      
TVS Motor Company registered sales of 3,23,368 units in October 2019 as against sales of 3,98,427 units in October 2018. The company has seen an uptrend in October sales over September and has significantly rationalised BS-IV stocks for the transition to BS-VI.
The company's total exports grew by 20 per cent increase from 57,926 units in October 2018 to 69,339 units in October 2019. Two-wheeler exports grew by 22 per cent increase from 45,319 units in October 2018 to 55,477 units in October 2019.

        Royal Enfield sales dip 2% in October
      
Royal Enfield, the two-wheeler division of Eicher Motors, on Friday reported a 2 per cent decline in total sales at 71,964 units in October.
The company had sold a total of 70,451 units in the corresponding month last year, Royal Enfield said in a statement.
Domestic sales stood at 67,538 units in October as compared to 70,044 units in the year-ago month, a decline of 4 per cent, it said. Exports during the month stood at 4,426 units as against 407 units in the corresponding month a year ago, the company said.
( With inputs from agencies)
