
# Lionel Messi wants new Barcelona signing kicked out ASAP

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:47:16+00:00**

Author: **Atharva Khadilkar**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/01/lionel-messi-wants-new-barcelona-signing-kicked-asap/)

Barcelona beat Real Madrid to the signing of Junior Firpo during the summer from Real Betis. The Catalans reportedly agreed a deal worth 30 million euros for the Spaniard who has been tipped to succeed Jordi Alba. Firpo has played four league games for Ernesto Valverde’s side, scoring once.
Fox Sports has reported that Lionel Messi is still unimpressed with the youngster’s impact on the roster and has told the Blaugrana to get rid of the full back as soon as possible. Messi believes that Firpo is far from Jordi Alba’s level, especially from an attacking standpoint and that Barca need to sign another player before it becomes too late.
The Argentina international has reportedly suggested to his side that they sign his compatriot Nicolas Tagliafico, who is currently on the books of Ajax Amsterdam. Tagliafico is a regular for Erik ten Hag’s side and was crucial for the Netherlands’ champions who went up till the UEFA Champions League’s semi-finals in the 2018/19 campaign, famously claiming the scalps of Real Madrid and Juventus on their way.
When asked about whether Messi has had a word with him, Tagliafico said that he was never told to join Barca by the Argentina captain. However, it is certain that Tagliafico will be a great addition to the Catalans’ roster and more so if they can replace Junior Firpo with him. Tagliafico’s attacking gameplay stands out and his defending is exquisite as well.
If Barcelona are unimpressed with Junior Firpo’s attacking qualities so early on in his tenure at the club, then they must consider signing Andrew Robertson from Liverpool. The Reds may not be ready to sell the Scottish full back, but he is arguably the best left back in the world right now and is certainly fit to play for the Catalans.
Who do you think would be the best replacement for Jordi Alba from those left backs around?
