
# 150-Million-Year-Old Sea Monster Fossil Has Been Excavated In Poland

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Yimin Huang**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407229/150-Million-Year-Old-Sea-Monster-Fossil-Has-Been-Excavated-In-Poland/)

Two researchers from the Polish Academy of Sciences have discovered the remains of a stunning 150-million-year-old sea monster called the pliosaur. Daniel Tyborowski and Błażej Błażejowski then published their new findings on Proceedings of the Geologists’ Association. The fossil is reportedly found in a cornfield in the northeastern part of the Holy Cross Mountains, in proximity to the village of Krzyżanowice, according to the research. The fossil was dated approximately 145 to 163 million years ago. The fossil also measured about ten meters long. This is the first time that a pliosaur fossil has been discovered in Poland. The latest report also shows that the animal is likely to have been “twice the size” of the modern killer whale, and weigh dozens of tons. During the time when they were alive, it is believed that they have been the “largest predators” both on land and the sea, so large and strong that they could have consumed the Tyrannosaurus Rex (T. Rex), per Phys.org. Advertisement Advertisement The pliosaur’s fossil suggests that they have crocodile-like snouts, fins and teeth. In fact, ancient crocodiles and turtles have also been found in the same location. It is believed that the animals lived in an archipelago with warm-water “lagoons and reservoirs”, and that the pilosaurs were the strongest predators so they would eat whatever came their way. One can expect further studies of the fossils to emerge as the research continues.
