
# RHSAA senior Tier 1 volleyball finals set for Friday

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:03:33+00:00**

Author: **Regina Leader-Post**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/sports/local-sports/rhsaa-tier-1-volleyball-finals-set-for-friday)

The Campbell Tartans will be in both finals Friday when the Regina High Schools Athletic Association’s senior Tier 1 volleyball championships are held.
Campbell is to play the LeBoldus Golden Suns at 6 p.m. (senior boys) and the Winston Knoll Wolverines at 7:15 p.m. (senior girls) at Luther College High School’s Semple Gymnasium.
In senior girls semi-finals on Wednesday night, Campbell defeated the Miller Marauders 25-13, 25-16 and Winston Knoll defeated the Martin Monarchs 20-25, 25-21, 15-9.
Meanwhile, Campbell defeated the Riffel Royals 25-20, 17-25, 15-13 and LeBoldus defeated Winston Knoll 25-20, 23-25, 15-6 in senior boys semi-finals.
• • •
The University of Regina Cougars are to play host to the University of Manitoba Bisons in Canada West women’s volleyball and men’s hockey on the weekend.
In women’s volleyball, matches are set for Friday and Saturday, 6 p.m., at the Centre for Kinesiology, Health and Sport.
In men’s hockey, the Cougars and Bisons will meet Friday (7 p.m.) and Saturday (3 p.m.) at the Co-operators Centre.
• • •
Fort Knox got 33 saves from Jakob Taylor in a 2-1 Prairie Junior Hockey League victory over the Extreme Hockey Regina Capitals on Wednesday at the Fort Qu’Appelle Rexentre.
Todd Johnson replied for the Capitals.
• • •
Jack Verstraete snapped a 3-3 tie at 14:15 of the third period to give the Melville Millionaires a 4-3 SJHL victory over the host Melfort Mustangs on Wednesday.
Luke Spadafora added two goals and an assist for Melville.
