
# Birmingham City, Leeds United and Nottingham Forest's Championship promotion odds

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:22:11+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Kemble**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/birmingham-city-leeds-united-nottingham-17188770)

Birmingham City are battling away in yet another Championship campaign.
Caretaker boss Pep Clotet is charged with making Blues competitive this season and ensuring they stay well away from a relegation scrap.
And it's so far, so good, too with City significantly closer to the top six than the bottom three.
But what do the bookmakers think about their chances of going up or indeed down this term?
Below is a regularly updated list of all the Blues and Championship odds you need from promotion to top goalscorer.
Leeds - 11/10
West Brom - 3/1
Fulham - 6/1
Brentford - 12/1
Swansea - 25/1
Preston - 25/1
Sheffield Wednesday - 30/1
Bristol City - 35/1
Nottingham Forest - 40/1
-------

        Birmingham City 125/1
      
This is your round up of all things Birmingham City; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Blues throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest BCFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Blues reporter Brian Dick on Twitter, and his email address is Brian.Dick@reachplc.com
 
Leeds - 2/7
West Brom - 10/11
Fulham - 6/5
Brentford - 21/10
Swansea - 9/2
Preston - 5/1
Sheffield Wednesday - 11/2
Bristol City - 6/1
Nottingham Forest - 7/1
-------

        Birmingham City 17/1
      
 
Barnsley - 1/2
Huddersfield - 2/1
Luton - 2/1
Middlesbrough - 23/10
Wigan - 5/2
Stoke - 23/10
Reading - 11/4
Blackburn - 6/1
Millwall - 15/2
-------

        Birmingham City - 14/1
      
Aleksandar Mitrovic 6/4
Ollie Watkins - 7/1
Karlan Grant - 9/1
Daniel Johnson - 14/1
Jarrod Bowen - 14/1
Borja Baston - 18/1
Nahki Wells - 20/1
Jordan Hugill - 20/1
Eddie Nketiah - 25/1
-------

        Lukas Jutkiewicz - 50/1
      
*Odds by Betfair, correct at time of writing*
