
# ASUS Rolls Out The Android 10 Update For The ZenFone 6

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:19:39+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/ADSoomeet**

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/asus-rolls-out-the-android-10-update-for-the-zenfone-6.html)

ASUS has begun rolling out the Android 10 update for its ZenFone 6 flagship smartphone. According to Redditors, the handset is now getting the latest iteration of Android OS in the US, Canada, and India, where it is called ASUS 6Z owing to a court ruling. The update, which carries build number 17.1810.1910.63, weighs in at around 810MB.
This update should bundle all the improvements and features that are part and parcel of Android 10. You can expect things like system-wide dark mode, Smart Reply functionalities, improved privacy controls, improved digital wellbeing, and various security enhancements with this update. The accompanying changelog, however, only mentions support for gesture navigation and Google Play system update, which presumably is Project Mainline.
Android 10 update for the ASUS ZenFone 6 also brings the ZenUI 6 on board. However, the Taiwanese smartphone maker has rightly refrained from making too many UI changes in this update.
Advertisement
ASUS released two killer phones this year – the ROG Phone II and the ZenFone 6. While the former had a target audience – mobile gamers – the ZenFone 6 was simply thrown at the crowded market of flagship Android smartphones. The rather eccentric smartphone still managed to carve a chunk for itself thanks to its impressive hardware components. ASUS is now showing its credibility on the software front too.
The company may not be the fastest to release an Android 10 update, but the likes of Samsung, Huawei, and LG are yet to push out a stable update for any of their devices. They are still only beta testing their updates. The ASUS ZenFone 6 joins a select group of devices from Google, Essential, OnePlus, Xiaomi and Nokia to be running a stable version of Android 10.
ASUS has also released the kernel source code for the Android 10 update for the ZenFone 6 (via XDA Developers). This is another impressive feat by the company. It does spark hope that the company will show the same level of commitment for future software updates as well. The ZenFone 5Z and the ROG Phone II should be the next two on the pipeline. ASUS should also be working on to quickly expand the Android 10 rollout for the ZenFone 6 globally.
Advertisement
Haven't yet received the Android 10 update on your ASUS ZenFone 6? Well, software updates are released in stages and may take some time before they reach every unit across the globe. You should get a notification once the update becomes available for you. If you're feeling too impatient to wait, you can download the full firmware from ASUS and flash it on your phone.
