
# The RealReal Needs To Do More To Address Concerns About Authentication

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Richard Kestenbaum**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/richardkestenbaum/2019/11/06/the-realreal-needs-to-do-more-to-address-concerns-about-authentication/)

If you’re not familiar with it, The RealReal is a resale company. Consumers give The RealReal their used products (jewelry, handbags and clothes) and The RealReal resells the products online and remits a portion of the proceeds to the seller. One of the key value propositions The RealReal offers its customers is the guarantee that everything it sells is authentic. It says it has certified experts who authenticate 100% of its products. Lately, The RealReal has come under withering criticism in articles on Fashionista, CNBC, and in an article I wrote on Forbes.com two weeks ago about a Christian Dior book tote I bought on The RealReal for over $3600 that was fake. Earlier today, Julie Wainwright, Founder and CEO of The RealReal, penned a note to customers explaining what a good job The RealReal does authenticating what it sells. She talked about training their employees and technological improvement. But she did not address the core issue relating to the problems The RealReal has.
Here is the essence of the problem: The RealReal has two levels of authenticators and its lower level, which my sources say do the authenticating of a majority of products sold on The RealReal, are not up to the job. As a result, consumers like myself are sold high-end brand name products for high prices that are completely counterfeit. What’s worse is that selling those products to consumers encourages forgers to create more counterfeit products and get rewarded for it so the problem will continue to grow. In addition, when you go on The RealReal website and when you read The RealReal prospectus, you don’t get the impression that there are two levels of authenticators — far from it, the company highlights its staff of experts without mentioning that a majority of products are never seen by the experts you read about.
Until The RealReal addresses the issue of its lower-tier authenticators, it is not going to resolve its problems. Now that the issue has been featured in multiple national publications, there is too much concern about authentication for The RealReal to be able to swat it away with platitudes that bring no changes.
The challenge for The RealReal is not just authentication. Now that it’s been a public company for the last six months, it has to satisfy investors as well. The RealReal is losing money and if it were to hire more high-level authenticators, it would move the turning point to profitability even farther into the future and that will have a negative effect on its stock price. Management is in a real bind. Now that the authentication issue has the potential to increase expenses and has a spotlight on it, the company can’t satisfy both its customers who are focused on the authenticity of products and investors who are concerned about reaching profitability. What’s more, even if The RealReal wanted to find more high-level authenticators, there may not be enough experts in the market to satisfy the need.
The RealReal is in a real bind. So it’s trying to convince the market that it’s authentication processes are adequate the way they are. If it can’t do that, then it’s going to have to spend more and that will make investors unhappy. But letting the authentication issue fester is not going to work. Concerns won’t just go away, management is going to have to make changes and the sooner they do that, the more likely the company can put the authentication concerns behind them and get on to the business of getting to profitability. Management is trying to convince customers and investors that everything is okay the way it is. But the stock price has dropped over 20% since Tuesday. The market isn’t buying the platitudes and the customers are concerned about the authenticity of what they’re buying. The company needs to make changes and it will take the courage of leadership to face up to what needs to be done.
