
# Leone Nakarawa is potentially facing the sack at Racing 92

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:03:45+00:00**

Author: **Liam Heagney**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/leone-nakarawa-is-potentially-facing-the-sack-at-racing-92/)

Leone Nakarawa is reportedly facing the sack after failing to report for duty last week with Racing 92. The 31-year-old Fijian last played at the World Cup on October 9 in the 29-17 defeat to Wales in Oita.
After winning his 61st Test cap, he was given 15 days mandatory vacation following the elimination of the Flying Fijians from the tournament.
He was meant to report back to his club in France last week but Midi Olympique have reported that the coveted second row is still in Fiji and allegedly has not been in contact with his club for a number of weeks.
The French rugby newspaper further reports that the player was expected back to prepare for a key part of struggling Racing’s season.
Beaten five times in eight Top 14 outings, they are adrift in 13th spot in the league table ahead of next Sunday’s derby versus Stade Francais and the start of a European campaign which opens at home against defending champions Saracens on November 17.

        (Continue reading below…)
      

        Click here to see the video
      
Laurent Travers and his staff wanted to call on the player who is described as one of the best second rows in the world, a lock who is apparently earning the second-biggest salary at the club behind Scotland’s Finn Russell.
So annoyed are Racing that they are said to be considering opening a disciplinary procedure against Nakarawa that could range from a warning to a sanction or to something more serious, the potential of dismissal for serious misconduct. Midi reports that this third option is being taken very seriously.
Nakarawa’s failure to check back into at Racing’s training ground isn’t the only post-World Cup problem the Parisians have encountered.
Prop Ben Tameifuna reported back for duty overweight at 160kgs and has been told he will not be selected yo play until he gets his weight back to the 140kgs he was at when he left for World Cup duty with Tonga in Japan.

        WATCH: Finn Russell gives Jim Hamilton a kicking masterclass at Racing’s training ground in Paris 
      

        Click here to see the video
      
