
# Emmerdale heartache sees Aaron Dingle turn to crime as Robert Sugden ends their marriage

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:34:56+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/emmerdale-heartache-sees-aaron-dingle-20827118)

Emmerdale's Aaron Dingle went off the rails in the latest episode of the ITV soap, as a move from husband Robert Sugden left him devastated.
The character received something in the post that told him his marriage was over, and there was no going back.
Viewers didn't initially see what had left Aaron so distraught, with him smashing a photo of him and Robert during happier times before breaking down.
Later on, Robert's sister Victoria was stunned to find him bagging up all of Robert's things but he wouldn't tell her why, only that her brother had made it clear that the couple - known as Robron by fans - were over for good.
Viewers next saw Aaron drowning his sorrows in the pub, with his uncle Cain also going off the rails following his own drama.
After learning his wife Moira had been having an affair with his secret son Nate Robinson, the latest visit to the Dales saw him return to crime.
Aaron figured out he would be doing just that when Cain's sister Belle shared her concerns over his self-destructive behaviour.
It's when the two men came face-to-face that Aaron finally revealed what Robert had sent him, leading to his own downward spiral.
Aaron explained he'd received a letter from Robert's solicitor in the post with his husband asking him for a divorce.
A clearly devastated Aaron revealed their marriage was likely over for good, with his uncle offering his support.
But Aaron didn't want pity, and instead followed his uncle's actions by wanting in on his latest dodgy dealings.
While few details have been confirmed about the job, it's thought to lead to kidnap horror for Charity's son Moses next week judging by recent spoilers.
With Robert now having left the soap, with actor Ryan Hawley bowing out last week, will this be it for Robron for good?

        Emmerdale airs weeknights at 7pm on ITV, with an extra episode at 8pm on Thursdays.
      
