
# Kerala UAPA Case: Cops Produce Kurdish Solidarity Photo to 'Prove' Maoist Link

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Newsdesk**

Original: [DoolNews](https://www.doolnews.com/kerala-uapa-case-cops-produce-kurdish-solidarity-photo-to-prove-maoist-link.html)


        Kerala Police drew flak as they released a photograph of the youth participating in a Kurd solidarity event as evidence of their involvement in the Maoist movement for years.
      
Kozhikode: In their desperate attempt to ‘prove’ Alan Shuhaib and Thaha Fasal’s alleged Maoist links, the Kerala Police released a photograph of them participating in a protest event in solidarity with the Kurdish community as evidence of their alleged involvement in the Maoist movement for years. Law student Alan and journalism student Thaha were arrested by the Keala police a few days ago for distributing pamphlets criticising the encounter killing of four suspected Maoists in the Manjakkatti forests of Palakkad’s Attappady area last month. They were slapped with the controversial Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and was denied bail on Wednesday.
Police say they have been tracking the youth for over ten years. It should be noted that the students, who were also members of the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist), are in their early twenties now. As per the FIR, they have been involved in unlawful activities and active workers of the banned Maoist movement.
The solidarity march against Turkey’s ‘War against Kurds’ took place on 26 October near the Kerala High Court in Ernakulam. However, the police department projects this as evidence to back their claim that they have been actively involved in unlawful activities. Ironically, the mainstream media in the state barring a few also devoted considerable slot to whitewash the police claim. The incident drew flak as netizens pointed out that the photograph was a recent one and no way connected to any banned outfit. It should be noted that the solidarity campaign in support of the Kurdish community in Syria has been taking place all over the world and even the United Nations and Arab League has voiced against the onslaught. However, for Kerala Police, it is an unlawful activity.
Alan Suhaib is a Law student and Thaha Fasal is studying journalism.
The said event expressed solidarity to the ‘Rojava Revolutionaries’ and besieged Turkish community, damaged justice and called for a public response against religious fundamentalism and Turkish authoritarianism. The Rojava Revolutionaries are fighters also against the IS militia and the Erdogan regime. Experts underline that they are no way connected to the Maoist insurgents in India. A notable event in the same line in London saw a footfall of thousands.
Besides the above-mentioned photograph, other ‘evidence’ produced by the cops as ‘Maoist literature’ has also turned suspicious.  It includes a book titled ‘collection of essays on Marxism, Imperialism and Extremism by O Abdurahman, editor of the Malayalam daily Madhyamam. The book which academically deals with the above-mentioned areas is visibly critical of Marxist-Maoist ideas. A copy of the CPI(M) constitution has also been ‘seized’ by the coops.
The arrest and subsequent slapping of UAPA have stirred a wave of protests and debates across the state with many arguing that the police has been muzzling on progressive and critical thinking. Calling them “urban Maoist” and suppressing progressive voices is in tune with Sangh Parivar policy, activists and concerned citizens opine. It has also been argued that the FIR consists of serious flaws.
The UAPA Act, which ha been criticised as draconian, gives the police custody of an arrested person for up to 180 days without filing a chargesheet.  Getting bail will also become difficult if framed under these provisions.
