
# Corrie's Sally Lindsay targeted in phone scam before signing for Cold Call drama

Published at: **2019-11-01T02:44:13+00:00**

Author: **Kelly Allen**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/corries-sally-lindsay-targeted-phone-20785197)

Ex-Corrie star Sally Lindsay was the target of a phone scam just a week before she signed to star in a new drama, Cold Call, where she plays a mum conned out of her life savings.
She explained: “I got a call from what I thought was the gas board.
“This guy was telling me because I hadn’t paid the bill, I was going to be given a county court judgment and be cut off.
“Even though I knew it was paid, I was listening and half of me was believing him. Then the doorbell rang and there was someone at the door so I said, ‘I’ll ring you back...’ and the line went dead.”
Life imitating art clearly.
In the new Channel 5 show, Sally plays June, a hard-working single mum who is targeted in a phone scam.
The fraudster makes off with her life savings and destroys her life, so June attempts to track them down to get revenge.
The four part-series is set in Manchester and features hour-long episodes, which are sure to keep viewers hooked.
Sally stars alongside Mount Pleasant's Daniel Ryan and Paul Higgins from Line of Duty.
It's the first original drama to be comissioned by Channel 5 in four years.
Speaking about the new show, Sally previously said: "I'm incredibly excited to be working with Channel 5 and Chalkboard on Cold Call.
 
"The pitch was a complete page turner, the story jumping off the page straight away.
"I can't wait to bring this very modern thriller alive; exploring how far a very normal woman will be stretched when she is horribly deceived, and her entire life and family are destroyed.
"I think the subject matter is extremely of the moment with the divide of the haves and have-nots getting ever wider."

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at  webcelebs@trinitymirror.com  or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
