
# How Leaders Can Communicate So Everyone Understands What They Need And Mean

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shane Green**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescoachescouncil/2019/11/01/how-leaders-can-communicate-so-everyone-understands-what-they-need-and-mean/)

One of my favorite quotes to remember as a leader is from Peter Drucker. He said, "Communication is in the mind of the recipient. You're just making noise if the other person does not understand you." Unfortunately, we see a lot of leaders out there who are just making noise, failing to really communicate to their teams because they are not focused on ensuring understanding.Leaders often believe that because of their leadership title, if they say, email or demonstrate something once, everyone will understand exactly what they need to do and what the leader means. That is just not the case, as people process information very differently. Leaders often neglect to realize that without understanding, there is no communication.
Having worked with many executives and managers over the years on their ability to communicate effectively for understanding, I know how critical communication is to effective leadership. So, here are my top five tips to remember when communicating with employees:
1. Keep words simple and to the point. We see a lot of managers overcomplicating their messages. Leaders must make the complex simple; so before speaking or sending out any message, ask yourself if it is easily translatable and understandable to your grandmother. Keep in mind the famous quote by Albert Einstein: "If you can't explain it simply, you don’t understand it well enough." You must fully understand what you are about to communicate and then make it as simple as possible for everyone else to understand it, too.
2. Check your body language and tone when speaking. Albert Mehrabian's 7-38-55 Rule suggests that body language communicates 55% of the message or how you are feeling, 38% comes from the tone of voice, while only 7% comes from the actual words being used. With this in mind, be aware of how you are standing, your facial expressions, the position of your feet and the placement of your hands — these all send signals to those listening about your true beliefs and focus. Always look at your audience or the person to whom you are speaking in the eyes, and speak with a confident and patient tone. Alignment between a leader's body language, eye contact, tone of voice and words increases authenticity.
3. Check for understanding. The common question managers often ask of those to whom they are speaking is, "Do you understand?" and the common response, regardless of whether the recipient understands or not, is often, "Yes." Your employees do not want to appear dumb or like they don't understand, so regardless of your communication channel, you must ask your recipients to explain in their own words what they are going to do next with the information you have given them. Outside of inspecting what you expect, it is the best way to check for understanding. Make sure to really listen to what the employee is saying to ensure they received the message correctly. Remember, this is especially true when you send an email. We often see managers adopt the attitude that because they sent an email, they have communicated effectively. Until they check for understanding, they haven't communicated anything at all.
4. Get your timing and environment right. Trying to communicate when your employees are preoccupied, busy or focused on other things is just not effective. Trying to communicate when an employee is ready to go to lunch or go home is not the best time. Choosing a place with a lot of noise or distractions going on around you is not the best place for speaking or having a conversation. So, try to communicate at a time and in a place with fewer distractions so that people can focus on the message you are sharing. Your communication will be more effective as a result. Also, consider whether you create opportunities for your team to process emails and written communication. While some employees have an opportunity to read emails each day, many others will not unless you specifically create time for them. Don't assume or expect that your employees read emails during their own time.
5. Communicate across multiple channels. As I outlined earlier, people have a preferred mode to receive information. Some want to listen; some want to read; some want to process information through action. This is especially true of different generations of workers, as there are often differences in communication preferences across generations. In the modern workplace, managers must be willing to use multiple channels to communicate the same message. Utilize meetings, memos, emails, videos and social media to reach your employees. The most important advice I give managers around communication is to know how your direct reports prefer to process information and adapt your communication style to them rather than expecting them to adapt to you.
Communication may be your most important leadership tool. In fact, research suggests that employees are significantly more engaged when they feel as though there are open lines of communication with their manager. So, focus on these leadership habits to ensure everyone understands what you have to say and reap the benefits of a more engaged, more productive and more connected team. And remember this final point, a quote from educator Walter Barbee: "If you've told a [person] a thousand times, and he still does not understand, then it is not the [person] who is a slow learner."
