
# Lionel Messi and Barcelona stars slammed for sad behaviour by Slavia Prague hero

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:15:34+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/lionel-messi-barcelona-stars-slammed-20826166)

Slavia Prague goalkeeper Ondrej Kolar has hit out at Barcelona after Lionel Messi and his team-mates failed to acknowledge the visitors' following their 0-0 Champions League draw on Tuesday might.
Barca would have taken a major step towards the knockout stages of the competition with victory at the Nou Camp.
But Valverde's side, who struck the woodwork through Lionel Messi, were unable to break down the Czech champions in a game which saw both sides have goals disallowed for offside.
Indeed, Slavia stopper Kolar twice saved from Messi and also repelled a powerful header from Gerard Pique.
And the 25-year-old, arguably man of the match in Spain, singled out Marc-Andre ter Stegen for praise but was left disappointed that Messi and Co refused to swap shirts.
 
"He (Ter Stegen) was waiting for me inside the tunnel," Kolar said after the match, as quoted by  iDNES.cz. "He stopped me and said he hadn't seen such a good goalkeeping performance for a long time and that it was a pleasure to watch me play well with my feet.
"He waited for me after the match, which I take as the ultimate award. To hear such praise from such a good goalkeeper, I had goosebumps. It was an amazing experience, but some of the other players...
"Messi and the others just left - some of them didn't even shake our hands. It was sad. We were all looking forward to meeting these big players, we wanted to swap jerseys after the match, but they didn't behave very well."
Meanwhile, Ernesto Valverde says he understands why some Barcelona supporters whistled his team following the disappointing goalless draw with Slavia Prague.
The stalemate followed Saturday's surprise 3-1 loss at Levante to increase the pressure on head coach Valverde.
"It's OK for people to demand (more)," said Valverde after the game, according to Marca. "You always like to win. Today, the truth is that we have not been right (when it has come to converting the) clear chances that we have had.
"They, without creating clear opportunities, caused danger when they stole the ball from us because they came out very fast against us (on the counter attack).
"We couldn't convert the dominance we had into opportunities."
