
# Things to do today in Bengaluru

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/things-to-do-today-in-bengaluru/articleshow/71927808.cms)

Put on your laughing pants Are you having a bad day at work? Or, are you sulking for no reason? Let Bengaluru Comedy Festival fix your mood then. On the roster is Prashasti Singh, an engineer and a MBA graduate who is now a comedienne and an improv actress. The other act is by Pavitra Shetty, who basically, like every other engineer, is trying her hand at everything except engineering. WHERE: That Comedy Club, 5th Block, Koramangala WHEN: 8pm onwards, November 6 ENTRY: `299 onwards, bookmyshow.com A talk on Mysore rockets Are you a history buff? If you just nodded your head in ‘yes’, know that Nidhin G Olikara will be in town today to talk about the history and prowess of Mysore rockets. He will take you through the recent discovery of over 2,000 of these rockets from Nagara in the Shivamogga district of Karnataka, and share fascinating insights about their design, content and manufacturing method. Stories in times of crisis Day 2 of The Ranga Shankara Theatre Festival – The Festival of Laughter and Forgetting will bring you the story of a bunch of youngsters. Presented by Aagaaz Theatre Trust and directed by Neel Chaudhuri, Rihla is an adaptation of Andreas Flourakis’ award-winning play I Want a Country. A crisis forces a group of young people to chart out the course for a new country. WHERE: Ranga Shankara, 8th Cross, 2nd Phase, JP Nagar WHEN: 7.30pm, November 6 ENTRY: `200, bookmyshow.com Girls, let your hair down One of city’s favourite deejays, DJ Hemanth is back to the console to make your Wednesday a happening one. At this Ladies Night party, he will spin the most groovy, hip and energetic Bollywood songs, so you don’t stop dancing just to one. To make the outing more fun, come along with a big group of girlfriends. WHERE: Tilt Pub, 5th Block, 1st Main Road, Koramangala WHEN: 8pm, November 6 CALL: 9886937151 Catch it if you can When was the last time you did something for the first time? We aren’t asking this, but the team behind Airbenders is, which aims to promote the sport of ultimate frisbee in the city. Today they are hosting a beginners’ class for women in an effort to make the sport inclusive. So, get set, run, jump, grab, throw and be ready to repeat. WHERE: Bangalore Football Stadium, 24, Anthony Nicholas St, Ashok Nagar WHEN: 7.30pm-9.30pm, November 6 ENTRY: `150 Anybody can danceHip hop, Salsa, contemporary... All that is fine but Bollywood or filmi dance has a special place in our heart. So if you want to dance like Tiger Shroff, Nora Fatehi or evergreen Madhuri Dixit, dance instructor Ann can help you out at this workshop she is hosting. So get on the dance- floor and learn some Bollywood moves. WHERE: Dialogues Café, 4th Block, Kormangala WHEN: 7.30pm-8.30pm, November 6 ENTRY: `200, bookmyshow.com To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
