
# What’s Next For Scotch Whiskey: A Conversation with Jim Beveridge

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Joseph V Micallef**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joemicallef/2019/11/02/whats-next-for-scotch-whiskey-a-conversation-with-jim-beveridge/)

Jim Beveridge is Johnnie Walker Master Blender and only the sixth person in the 200-year history of Johnnie Walker to fulfil this role. He leads a team of expert whisky makers in the pursuit of exceptional flavor, as he manages and monitors the unparalleled Johnnie Walker reserves of 10 million maturing Scotch whiskies.
Over his forty years at Johnnie Walker, Jim has become arguably one of the most celebrated whisky makers of his generation. A legacy that this year led to an OBE by Her Majesty the Queen for his outstanding service to the Scotch whisky industry. Recently I sat down with Jim to discuss the future of the Scotch whisky business.
JM: The oldest Scotch whiskies ever released have been in the 70-75 YO range. Is there a practical upper limit to how long a whisky can be aged? Is it just the function of the cask and the environment it is being aged in? Will we ever have a 100 YO Scotch whisky released?
JM: Blends of single malts, what used to be called “vatted malts,” have become more common as spirits companies have premiumized their core range of blended whisky. Is this the future of blended whiskies or will these expressions remain one-off offerings in blended whisky brands?
JM: Is there a sweet spot where the tradeoff between cost, quality and aging is at an optimal point? Is this consistent across the industry or is this just too dependent on the cask and the distillery?
JM: The top tier of collectible whisky expressions has seen five times to six times increase in prices over the last two decades. Are these kinds of increases sustainable? What kind of rate of increases are likely over the next 10 years?
JM: Age statements have been a critical element in premiumizing whisky. As the industry moves away from disclosing age statements, what will be the basis for justifying premium pricing? Will it be strictly taste and aroma or will some other factors come into play? Will this just become a marketing issue?
JM: Cask finishes now include virtually every variety of sweet/fortified wine, top tier whites and reds from famous producers, casks that have held other spirits, new wood and casks that have held beers and ales. Are we running out of different cask finishing/maturation ideas? What’s left in cask finishes that hasn’t already been tried?
JM: Several craft distillers have experimented with “terroir” based whiskies. Generally, this has taken the form of grain specific distillations from particular regions. Is this practice going to become more prominent in the industry or is it going to be limited to just craft distilleries?
JM: Whisky production is rising at a much faster rate than consumption; not just in Scotland but also in other whisky producing countries. Are we heading for another whisky loch? Not just in Scotland but all over the world?
JM: Pernod Ricard has announced that it is planning to build a malt whisky distillery in China. Any plans to follow suit?
JM: What are the next innovations in the Scotch whisky industry?
JM: Macallan has announced that they will open their own dedicated boutiques to showcase and retail their whiskies direct to consumers. The first one just opened in Dubai Airport. Do you expect this trend to become more prevalent in the whisky industry? Johnny Walker was one of the pioneers of this trend. Is this a program you are still pursuing?
Thank you.
