
# Bali authorities weigh in on viral photo of tourist wearing skimpy bikini in a supermarket

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:14:11+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Bali**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/bali/news/bali-authorities-weigh-in-on-viral-photo-of-tourist-wearing-skimpy-bikini-in-a-minimarket/)

Welcome to Bali, where the latest hot topic happens to revolve around what one ought to wear (or not wear) during a visit to the supermarket. After a photo of one tourist wearing a skimpy bikini inside a supermarket went viral and sparked a debate on social media recently, authorities have now weighed in on the matter as well. 
It all started about a week ago, when a user shared a photo of an unidentified woman lining up for the cashier at a supermarket in Umalas, North Kuta on a public Facebook group. It sounds like a mundane enough activity, alright, but the fact that the woman was only wearing a G-string bikini and string top was what prompted a lot of commentaries. 
“I’m amazed that Pepito Umalas, a family residential area allowed this shopper into the store? And that this person thinks its acceptable [sic],” the user who posted the photo wrote. 
Unsurprisingly, the photo soon made its rounds on social media, with people giving a decidedly divided response – some were critical of the woman’s choice of outfit, while others were of the opinion that this shouldn’t be considered an issue at all (there are also those who said the poster was “creepy” for taking the photo). 
This reminds us of what happened in Boracay, the Philippines, last month, where a Taiwanese tourist was fined by the local police for wearing an extremely tiny Bikini – one that our sister site Coconuts Manila described as being “barely there at all.” 
Yesterday, Head of Bali’s Public Order Agency (Satpol PP) Dewa Nyoman Dharmadi weighed in on the issue, saying that the public must also play a role in preserving Bali’s image.
“We are also hoping for the people to play a role in preserving Bali, so that it won’t be tainted by such things,” Dharmadi told Kumparan. 
“[It’s a pity] that the photo was posted online and became viral, why didn’t the person who took the photo just scold [the woman in the bikini] right away?” 
Dharmadi added that wearing bikinis are not prohibited, but stresses that one must still be  respectful wearing it. 
On the other hand, the head of Bali’s Tourism Agency Putu Astawa said going to public places with a skimpy outfit is simply unethical. 
“It makes people uncomfortable, and that’s why people who dress like this are considered to be committing public disturbance,” Astawa said. 
What do you think, Coconauts? Do you think this matter is worthy of a debate or nah? Share your thoughts on our comments section below or on our socials!
