
# This Dyson V8 Animal Cordless Stick Vacuum Will Help You Clean Up During The Holidays

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:56:45+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-dyson-v8-animal-cordless-stick-vacuum-sale-black-friday-deal.html)

Amazon is taking $200 off of the regular price of the Dyson V8 Animal Cordless Stick Vacuum right now. Which brings it down to just $299.
Now that might still sound like a lot for a vacuum – heck you can get a decent robot vacuum for that price – and it is. But this vacuum is really impressive. It's a cordless, stick vacuum that is very powerful. It has "Animal" in its name for a reason, and that's because it can get up all of your pets hair pretty easily.
This makes it perfect for using around the holidays. As you're going to want to make sure that your home is nice and clean for all of your family and friends that will be coming over, and this is the perfect way to do just that.
Advertisement
It's a stick vacuum, that can also be taken apart and used as a dustbuster, to clean up those small messes on the stairs or even on your kitchen counter. Dyson says that the battery will last for around 40 minutes on a single charge. That is pretty decent, considering how powerful this is, and how small the motor and battery inside it are.
This is going to work on carpet, laminate, hardwood floors and much more. So no matter what kind of flooring you have in your home, you're going to be all set with this Dyson V8 Animal Cordless Stick Vacuum.
The Dyson V8 is a really great vacuum to pick up, even if it's not for yourself. Your mom, or whoever you plan to give it to this year, is absolutely going to love this vacuum. Even though it is not a robot vacuum.
Advertisement
You can pick up the Dyson V8 Animal Cordless Stick Vacuum from Amazon by clicking here, this sale price of $299 won't last long though.

        Dyson V8 Animal Cordless Stick Vacuum - Amazon - $299
      
