
# Futures rise on bounce in China factory activity; US jobs report awaited

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:25:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/business/futures-rise-on-bounce-in-china-factory-activity--us-jobs-report-awaited-12055584?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

U.S. stock index futures gained on Friday as a surprise rise in China's manufacturing activity boosted sentiment, while investors awaited a crucial U.S. jobs report.
REUTERS: U.S. stock index futures gained on Friday as a surprise rise in China's manufacturing activity boosted sentiment, while investors awaited a crucial U.S. jobs report.
Factory activity in the world's second-largest economy expanded at the fastest pace in more than two years in October, a private business survey showed.
Meanwhile, the U.S. Labor Department's non-farm payrolls data is likely to show jobs growth slowed sharply last month, weighed down by a strike at General Motors , while the unemployment rate is expected to tick up from near a 50-year low of 3.5per cent.
The report is due at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Also of interest to investors would be the Institute for Supply Management's (ISM) manufacturing report due at 10 a.m. ET, which is expected to show the PMI index rose to 48.9 in October from a 10-year low of 47.8 a month earlier.
The news comes amid mixed headlines on the trade war between Washington and Beijing.
All three main U.S. stock indexes notched gains in October on the back of a largely better-than-expected third-quarter earnings season, hopes of interest rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve and upbeat U.S.-China trade rhetoric.
However, after scaling record highs earlier in the week, the benchmark S&P 500 edged lower on Thursday as a report said Chinese officials had doubts about a comprehensive long-term trade deal with Washington.
At 7:09 a.m. ET, Dow e-minis were up 49 points, or 0.18per cent. S&P 500 e-minis were up 6 points, or 0.2per cent and Nasdaq 100 e-minis were up 20 points, or 0.25per cent.
Among stocks, Qorvo Inc jumped 10.2per cent after the Apple supplier announced a US$1 billion share buyback plan and forecast third-quarter revenue above expectations.
Pinterest Inc tumbled 20.6per cent as the online scrapbook company missed quarterly revenue estimates.
Arista Networks slumped 27per cent after the cloud infrastructure supplier forecast current-quarter revenue much below Wall Street expectations.
U.S. Steel Corp gained 3.7per cent after it reported smaller-than-expected third-quarter loss.
(Reporting by Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur)
