
# England look calm before final storm: expect South Africa to provide one

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:40:38+00:00**

Author: **Robert Kitson**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/01/england-south-africa-storm-rugby-world-cup-final)


        World Cup finals have often been tense and tight affairs and while that would suit the Springboks, England look to have the ability and belief to overcome whatever is thrown at them
      
Around 37 million inhabitants live in Japan’s sprawling capital city, enough to make the chances of bumping into Eddie Jones in a random shop in a non-touristy part of town the day before a World Cup final almost comically remote. Of all the people in all the world you would not expect to see browsing clothing racks and looking for presents on a Friday afternoon it would be England’s head coach on the eve of the biggest game of his life.
The middle-aged couple who persuaded him to pose for a selfie just around from the leisurewear section could scarcely believe their luck. Jones does not come across as a habitual high street browser – nor, after eight weeks of press conferences, could you blame him for not looking delighted to see the man from the Guardian – but the caption wrote itself. England are so well prepared for the final their coach has already begun his Christmas shopping.
The players seem particularly relaxed and calm, too. Barely had Jones left the shop than the internet was creaking afresh under the weight of training ground pictures of Jonny Wilkinson coaching the squad’s current captain, Owen Farrell, in the art of drop-goals. Again it was a snapshot that neatly reflected England’s state of mind. Sixteen years on from their last great golden era, sealed by Wilkinson’s immortal extra-time drop, they feel they have every base covered.
This is not to say rugby’s great prize is automatically coming home to Twickenham for the first time since 2003. What is indisputable is that England have spent four years painstakingly working towards this moment. Last week against New Zealand they delivered their best performance in many years. If it all goes pear-shaped from here they can hardly blame their preparation, their management, their available budget or the weather, which has turned beautifully clear and sunny in the past couple of days.
All of which explains why England, as a nation, has not looked forward this expectantly to a game of rugby in ages. In clubhouses, pubs and sitting rooms across the land, they will be lying back and thinking of an England in which everything, in these days of political division and intolerance, is gloriously rosy. The cricket World Cup has already been reeled in and here is a another high-profile global opportunity. If Jones’s boys come good even Ben Stokes’s compelling case to be Sports Personality of the Year may have to be reassessed.
It would, of course, be pushing it to suggest the 2019 squad are anything like as well-known or feted as their 2003 predecessors were at this same juncture. The faces of Martin Johnson, Lawrence Dallaglio, Jason Robinson and Wilkinson had already been carved on Twickenham’s equivalent of Mount Rushmore before that Sydney final. Even now, if Jamie George and Elliot Daly popped out for a quick lunchtime coffee in Slough the staff member serving them would still be asking what names he or she should write on their takeaway cups.
This says less about George or Daly, both starting Lions and excellent role models, as crowd-pleasing athletes and rather more about the public’s complex relationship with rugby union. There will always be those who want to read George Eliot instead and would never contemplate venturing to the Stoop or Sandy Park on an average Premiership weekend. Others still regard it as a pumped-up minority sport and will forever stick to watching Chelsea or Wolverhampton Wanderers. Rare are the days outside World Cups and Six Nations when the oval ball reaches a peak terrestrial audience or penetrates the consciousness of those who can just about recognise Wilkinson and, at a stretch, Will Carling.
Nor has the Rugby Football Union always been brilliant at preaching to the unconverted, particularly since the national side crashed and burned in the pool stages of the home 2015 World Cup. What should have been the springboard to a whole new level of popularity was ultimately the biggest missed opportunity in the history of English team sport. Which is why the RFU owes a significant debt of gratitude to this current group of players, now on the verge of digging their currently cash-strapped union out of a sizeable hole by selling the game afresh to the next generation.
Maro Itoje, Kyle Sinckler, Tom Curry, Sam Underhill … the fact the 21-year-old Curry is the only Englishman on the shortlist for World Rugby Player of the Year should not obscure the fact his country have an array of twinkling new stars emerging. When they last made the final in 2007, having already lost 36-0 to their opponents South Africa in their pool, no one expected much and the highest-profile fan to send a message in final week was the singer Kenny Rogers, whose song “The Gambler” had become an unlikely dressing-room favourite. This time even Prince Harry has been sending pictures of his son in an England babygro and there is far more belief, both inside and outside the camp.
Much of it is based on the compelling evidence of the past couple of months. On their travels between Miyazaki, Sapporo, Kobe, Tokyo, Oita and Yokohama, Jones’s side have yet to be seriously challenged on the scoreboard. They have not just beaten all the southern hemisphere opposition put in front of them but have stuck 39 and 40 points respectively on Argentina and Australia and left the whole of New Zealand practically speechless.
They have, moreover, defended with such physicality that opponents have often been unable to establish a consistent foothold in games. By the time the so-called “finishers” have appeared, the tone has already been set. Nothing – from typhoons and humidity to Brodie Retallick and Ardie Savea – has inconvenienced them for too long. Those drawing similarities between England and Saracens – serial winners in Europe and domestically in recent seasons – have been doing so with good reason.
There is just one fly in the miso soup – and a substantial one at that. Virtually every World Cup final in the modern era, save for New Zealand’s spectacular dismissal of Australia four years ago – has been tight and tense. South Africa’s pack are every bit as physical as their opposite numbers and have a set piece that has so far ground down all comers. To date the Boks have lost only one lineout in the whole tournament and have a pair of half-backs in Faf de Klerk and Handre Pollard capable of kicking any side where it hurts. Some of Pollard’s goal-kicking against Wales in the semi-final was as sweet as anything in this tournament, while the brilliant Cheslin Kolbe can make mugs of even the best defenders.
While England stand within sight of becoming the first team to beat the Wallabies, the All Blacks and the Springboks at a single World Cup, it is also the case that no side have gone on to lift the trophy after beating New Zealand en route for 28 years. Listening to Pollard and his captain, Siya Kolisi, explaining how much it would mean to South Africa to replicate their triumphs of 1995 and 2007 from what was virtually a standing start two years ago was to suspect Farrell and co will have to withstand a serious barrage at some stage.
These two sides just happen to be strong in several of the same areas and the Springbok bench, wryly nicknamed the “Bomb Squad”, is also as explosive as any. Kolisi, furthermore, will be winning his 50th cap, while his father has travelled out of Africa for the first time in his life to watch him play.
On the face of it the game is unlikely to match the Kiwi pyrotechnics at Twickenham four years ago, with Pollard among those ruling out many “disco lights” when it comes to the Bok gameplan. The battle for gainline supremacy, however, will be a match for any dohyo, the ring in which Japan’s sumo wrestlers grapple. Slow down England’s ball consistently at the breakdown and the hungry Springboks will be in the hunt, particularly if they are a score ahead with half an hour left.
If their opponents, on the other hand, display the same dynamism, precision and class which scuppered New Zealand, Wilkinson’s 11th-hour drop-goal tuition should not be required. Having originally tipped South Africa to win this tournament, it now feels as if an improving England should have just enough to reach the promised land. Do so and Jones will have supplied his adopted nation with the ultimate gift.
