
# Second man pleads guilty over Mesut Ozil and Sead Kolasinac attempted robbery

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:06:08+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/breaking-second-man-pleads-guilty-20787311?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

A second man has pleaded guilty to the attempted robbery of Arsenal stars Mesut Ozil and Sead Kolasinac.
Jordan Northover, 26, of West Yorkshire, appeared at Harrow Crown Court on Wednesday.
Ashley Smith, 30, of Cardinals Way, north London, had already entered a guilty plea after the pair were charged with attempted robbery and threatening a person with an offensive weapon in a public place, following the incident in Platt's Lane, Hampstead, in July.
Video footage emerged at the time of the attempted robbery, where two assailants approached Ozil's £100,000 Mercedes G Jeep wielding knives.
They tried to steal Kolasinac's watch, who chased them away, while Ozil and his wife, Amine - who was also in the car - later sought refuge in a local restaurant where they were well known.
Both players missed the start of the season for Arsenal due to the incident.
Kolasinac's wife, Bella, reportedly left England and fled back to Germany due to safety fears following the attack.
Speaking to the Athletic about the incident, Ozil said: "Sead’s reaction was really, really brave because he attacked one of the attackers. The second one was in front of my car on his moped so I couldn’t drive.
“We were newly wed and I was scared about my wife. I was scared about Sead. I wasn’t thinking about myself. I was worried they were going to open my wife’s door and they tried, so I reached across her to keep it closed.
“I started driving but they followed. I was driving very fast but they kept coming close on the moped. I tried to move the car, block them, escape, but each time they would be there. My wife was extremely scared."
