
# We don't look back in anger at 2017 loss to Slaughtneil: Dunloy boss Gregory O'Kane

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **BRENDAN CROSSAN**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/hurlingandcamogie/2019/11/05/news/we-don-t-look-back-in-anger-at-2017-loss-to-slaughtneil-dunloy-boss-gregory-o-kane-1756559/)

DUNLOY manager Gregory O’Kane insists he doesn’t look back in anger at their 2017 Ulster semi-final loss to Slaughtneil and feels overcoming the Derry champions in Sunday’s provincial decider will be a “huge challenge”.
From a Cuchullain’s perspective, O’Kane will be hoping his young side are two years wiser after being overwhelmed by the Emmet’s men on a 1-18 to 2-8 scoreline.
Dunloy, who had conquered their county championship for the first time in eight years, raced into 1-4 to 0-1 lead before being reeled in by Michael McShane’s men at a packed Owenbeg.
“We can never play that game again,” said O’Kane, now in his fifth season in charge of the north Antrim men.
“It’s gone. The result didn’t go our way so all we can do is play the next game. That’s all we’re doing.”
In 2018, Dunloy fell at the county semi-finals to Loughgiel Shamrocks, while Slaughtneil retained their county championship but were ambushed by Down champions Ballycran in an Ulster semi-final that put an end to their hopes of three-in-a-row on the provinvial stage.
Both Dunloy and Slaughtneil have had to wait longer than they would have liked to renew acquaintances in Ulster.
As yet, no venue has been decided upon for Sunday’s decider after The Athletic Grounds – host to the Ulster hurling final for the last number of years – was yesterday deemed unplayable after the pitch badly cut up following a football double header last Saturday night.
The Ulster Council is looking at either Celtic Park or Pairc Esler to host the eagerly awaited clash between the Antrim and Derry champions as well as the curtain-raiser, the Ulster senior camogie final between Slaughtneil and Loughgiel Shamrocks.
After overcoming seasoned opponents Loughgiel and Cushendall in the county semi-finals and final, respectively Dunloy were able to express themselves in their impressive demolition of Ballycran in their Ulster semi just nine days ago.
And it is exactly that freedom of expression O’Kane has tried to harness since they defeated Cushendall in the Antrim final with a late rally.
“The thing about the Ulster Championship is that it gives you the opportunity to go and play, whereas county championships are about rivalry, all the games are tight and everybody knows each other,” O’Kane said.
“So Ulster is one of those competitions where you can go and play and just see where it takes you. Every game is a bonus.
“Against Ballycran, I just felt on the day we did a lot of things right. It was a decent performance. In fairness to Ballycran they went down to 14 men after half-time, so it probably wasn’t a fair reflection on them…
“Slaughtneil have been in an Ulster final nearly every year over the last few years. They could be going for three-in-a-row. But there’s no doubt about it they are a huge challenge.
“They are an unbelievable club. To be in finals in football, hurling and camogie year in and year out is incredible.
“To achieve what they’ve achieved has been outstanding and with Michael McShane in charge - he could really be the Antrim manager - it shows you the level they are at.
“Michael is from Ballycastle, he’s an Antrim man and he probably sees quite a lot of Dunloy.”
Slaughtneil’s dominance of the Derry SFC ended in 2018, losing to Eoghan Rua Coleraine, and were surprised by Glen this season.
O’Kane added: “Slaughtneil are so conditioned because every week they seem to have a challenge and it doesn’t seem to affect them. They just seem ready for the game any day that they play.”
It’s 10 years since Dunloy last featured in an Ulster final, beating Ballycran, before losing to a Joe Canning-inspired Portumna in the All-Ireland semi-finals.
O’Kane reports no injury worries ahead of Sunday’s showpiece.
