
# Man finds wife 'mauled to death by her dogs' at home with bloodied baseball bat

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:35:43+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/man-finds-wife-mauled-death-20816134)

A man walked in to find his wife lying dead at home after she was allegedly mauled to death by her pet dogs.
Mary Matthews died in Clearcreek Township, Ohio, on Friday having seemingly been savaged by one or both of her Great Danes.
The alarm was raised by her husband Dale who walked in on the bloody scene having been released from Warren County Jail earlier that day.
When police officer Wendi Blaha arrived at the home in response to his report of a suspected overdose, she met the husband and son in the driveway.
Inside, Mrs Matthews was lying dead on the bathroom floor, with the walls of multiple rooms covered in blood and bloody footsteps in the garage entrance.
The 49-year-old's body was reportedly covered in puncture wounds and a piece of flesh seemed to be missing from her ankle.
She wasn't breathing and her body was rigid, police reports quoted by USA Today stated .
A baseball bat that was heavily blood stained was found on the sofa in the living room, close to grey jogging bottoms that were torn, punctured and bloodied, according to reports.
When Officer Blaha went outside she reportedly found two thin Great Danes contained on a deck so covered in faeces the actual decking was not visible.
 
Mr Matthews told her that one of the dogs was “vicious” and had bitten several people, including him.
The dogs were taken by a warden for bite mark comparisons.
The Warren County Coroner’s Office told NBC News that the dogs will be euthanized.
Police described Mrs Matthews as an alcoholic, and that she took several prescription medications which may have left her too impaired her ability call for help.
Authorities concluded that Mrs Matthews likely got the dogs outside after one or both of them attacked her, then “felt she could handle things on her own,” the report stated.
She was killed the same day she was found, according to the coroner's office, and was last seen alive two days before she died.
