
# Scots mum's devastating cancer diagnosis for second time just weeks after having 'miracle' baby

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Lynn Love**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/scots-mums-devastating-cancer-diagnosis-20765932)

A Scots mum has tragically been diagnosed with cancer for the second time - just weeks after giving birth to her 'miracle' baby.
Jolene Patrick, 30, was delighted to welcome her baby girl Emmeline to the world on August 22 after being told by doctors that her intense treatment for breast cancer in 2017 could prevent her from having children.
However, Jolene's world came crashing down for a second time earlier this month, when little Emmeline had just turned 8 weeks old, as doctors told her the devastating news that her cancer had returned and had already spread to her lymph nodes, liver, ribs, lungs and bones.
 
Jolene, from Stenhousemuir, said she was just starting to feel like her life was getting back on track before her shock diagnosis.
The mental health nurse added: "The last few years have been horrendous and I was just starting to feel like I was getting my life back and now this has happend.
"I've got to just take every day as it comes. I've fought it once before and I'll try my hardest to do it again. I've got Emiline to focus on now.
"Right now we're just trying to stay positive and are continuing to make memories as we don't know what's going to happen."
 
Jolene, of Stenhousemuir, opted out of freezing her eggs before her intense chemotherapy sessions in 2017 because she didn't want to delay her treatment.
She was told by doctors that this would reduce her chances of conceiving naturally, however she and her husband Alan were delighted to find out they were expecting a baby just six months after Jolene was given the all clear in March 2018.
Jolene added: "The pregnancy was definitely not planned. We did not expect it to happen because of everything I had been through.
"We were over the moon. She's our little miracle and is so loved.
"She's a brilliant baby. We're so lucky to have her."
Jolene was first diagnosed with triple negative breast cancer in June 2017 almost a year after marrying Alan.
The then 28-year-old underwent a mastectomy and endured several rounds of gruelling chemotherapy.
 
She added: "The chemotherapy was awful the last time. If I had a gun I would have used it. I felt dreadful. So, so bad."
Jolene's best friend Julie McGregor has now started a fundraising page to help ease the financial burden for Jolene and Alan.
She said: "A few of our friends have came together to do this for them. It's all we can do to help.
"Unfortunately we can't take away what she's going through so this is the least we can do.
"We're heartbroken for her. She doesn't deserve this. She's amazing and is so loved.
"We want her to know we are all here and will do whatever we can to ease any financial stress they might have.
"She doesn't need to be worrying about money as well as everything else."
Jolene said she has been overwhelmed by the donations.
She added: "I'm so grateful. I have so many brilliant people in my life. My family, my friends and my husband Alan have been amazing the last few years. I'm really lucky to have them."
To donate click here.
