
# Late goals secure Celtic win over Highlands Park

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:04:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/late-goals-secure-celtic-win-over-highlands-park-20191105)

Cape Town - Bloemfontein Celtic scored two late goals to secure a 3-1 victory over Highlands Park in an Absa Premiership clash at the Dr Molemela Stadium on Tuesday night.
The two teams went into the half-time break on level pegging as Peter Shalulile scored in injury time to cancel out Sera Motebang's 21st-minute goal. However, it was Celtic who had the last say, Ndumiso Mabena and Menzi Masuku scoring in quick succession to ensure the hosts would claim all three points.
The first half started at a cautious tempo, with neither side willing to commit numbers in attack.
But, after a drab opening 15-minute spell, the match eventually sprang to life in the 19th minute when Celtic scored with their first chance of the game, Sera Motebang playing a neat-one-two before slotting the ball past Thela Ngobeni in the Highlands Park goal.
The goal did little to raise the tempo of the game, however, with goal-scoring chances proving tough to create at both ends of the pitch.
However, with time running out in the first half, the Lions of the North clawed their way back on level terms as Peter Shalulile fired home in the 44th minute.
The second half mirrored the first in terms of tempo and action, and the match looked destined to end in stalemate as neither of the teams seemed willing to throw men forward.
That all changed in the 81st minute, though, as Celtic reclaimed the lead through substitute Mabena, before Masuku converted a couple of minutes later from the penalty spot to put the result beyond doubt.
