
# Introducing the new Microsoft Edge and Bing

Published at: **2019-11-04T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Yusuf Mehdi**

Original: [Windows Experience Blog](https://blogs.windows.com/windowsexperience/2019/11/04/introducing-the-new-microsoft-edge-and-bing/)

In our mission to empower people with knowledge with Microsoft 365, one critical opportunity is the internet. We know that 60% of the time people spend on the PC is within the web browser, and it has become the primary way we work, learn and play. The internet has become an everyday utility, that we reach for automatically without thinking, yet two decades after its introduction, we are bumping into challenges and obstacles that raise questions for us.
At Microsoft, we believe it is time to expect more from your web experience whether you are using it for personal or business use, an IT manager in a company, or a web developer. Today we begin with a focus on people in businesses and introduce the new Microsoft Edge and Microsoft Bing – the browser and search engine for business.
We see a unique opportunity to bridge the tradeoffs of today’s web search with more complete solutions that Microsoft can uniquely address. We will unite the internet with your intranet with Microsoft Search in Bing so that you can increasingly access more of your important data in a single browse and search experience. We will provide you powerful default privacy protection, while still allowing you to benefit from web personalization. And we will enable you to move from great web research directly into Microsoft Office applications to enable you to be more productive.
Today, we also introduced a new Microsoft Edge logo that is designed to capture the waves of innovation that we plan to bring to you.

        The opportunity to empower people to be more productive at work
      
One of the biggest problems for people at work is the difficulty in finding and accessing corporate information that is known to exist on company intranets. The irony is that it is easier to find an obscure piece of information on the much larger internet, than it is to find a simple document on your company’s intranet such as a paystub portal, a pet at work policy, or the office location of a fellow employee. As company information continues to expand to terabytes, petabytes and zettabytes of information, this will only get more complex. A McKinsey & Company research report validates this familiar challenge by showing employees waste nearly 20% of their time looking for information that they know to be there1. Imagine getting a full day of work back each week to either be more productive or get more time back with your family.
For IT professionals, managing today’s web tools is heavy and costly with a majority of enterprise companies supporting at least two browsers to maximize compatibility across modern and legacy web sites across all the major device platforms. According to a 2019 study by the Ponemon Institute, the average cost of a data breach is $3.92M (USD)2. We see an opportunity to make security and manageability simple for IT professionals. To help people and IT professionals be more in control, secure and productive, today we are announcing:
 
For IT Professionals, we are also announcing three new capabilities:
Today marks an important milestone as we head to the formal launch of Microsoft Edge and Bing for our commercial customers in January. As we enter the new year, we are excited to share more about how we will expand opportunities for developers, and later in the spring even more for consumers. It’s time to expect more from the web!
1 “The social economy: Unlocking value and productivity through social technologies” McKinsey Global Institute
2 “Cost of a Data Breach Report 2019” Ponemon Institute
