
# Townsville couple found dead after apparently slipping at Queensland waterfall

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:01:42+00:00**

Author: **Australian Associated Press**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2019/nov/05/bodies-found-north-queensland-missing-townsville-couple)


        The woman, 32, and man, 24, were reported missing after failing to turn up to their jobs following a camping trip in the Goldsborough area near Cairns
      
A couple reported missing after failing to turn up to their respective jobs have died after falling from Kearneys Falls in Far North Queensland.
The couple – a woman, 32, and a man, 24, both from Townsville – were reported missing on Monday after failing to turn up to their respective jobs.
A search began after the alarm was raised and a friend let police know where they had gone camping.
Their bodies were found at Kearneys Falls late on Monday after a search of the Goldsborough bushland.
Police said on Tuesday it appeared to be misadventure.
They believe the couple slipped and fell to their deaths after climbing the steep falls, but don’t yet know when.
The man had picked his partner up from Cairns airport on Thursday after she returned from holidaying in Japan.
They were planning to camp for a few days before returning to Townsville, police said.
The bodies were flown out by helicopter because the site is difficult to access.
The Kearneys Falls walking track and viewing platform are 850 metres from a camping area in the Goldsborough Valley section of Wooroonooran National Park.
Queensland Parks said that section of the park will be closed until Saturday.
The walking track and viewing platform are temporarily closed for maintenance work.
