
# Star Wars: Attack of the Clones Black Series Figure Reveals From Europe

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:05:30+00:00**

Author: **Luke Y. Thompson**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/geek-culture/470923-star-wars-attack-of-the-clones-black-series-figure-reveals-from-europe)

Next year will only mark the 18th anniversary of Episode II in Star Wars‘ Skywalker saga, but Hasbro seems to be treating it as a special anniversary anyway. On the heels of revealing Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi in their Attack of the Clones outfits, the company now offers up more friends and foes for them. Fresh from conventions in Lucca, Italy, and Barcelona, Spain, new 6-inch reinforcement reveals help to begin your own Clone Wars.
Bolstering the ranks of the Jedi, council masters Kit Fisto and Plo Koon join the action. Casual viewers may remember them as the green tentacle head and the alien in a gas mask. Fans of the Clone Wars cartoons, however, including the original Genndy Tartakovsky 2-D shorts, saw these characters expand into further adventures.
Heroes, though, must be balanced with more villains to fight. And a long-awaited one now approaches. Count Dooku, a.k.a. Darth Tyranus, the guy who hired Jango Fett as the clone army template, finally sees his way into the 6-inch scale. Let us not forget that the actor who portrayed him was the late Christopher Lee, of Hammer horror fame. With frequent former costar Peter Cushing already in the line as Grand Moff Tarkin, it’s a reunion of sorts. Customizers, get cracking on some Draculas and Frankensteins!
Dooku comes with a new kind of bonus lightsaber blade, simulating the look of the weapon in motion. We’ve previously seen Hot Toys use this alternate look, but this marks Hasbro’s first go at making such a swap-out. The Count is bolstered by the red Geonosis Battle Droid, which can fold up into a smaller size convenient for storage.
Check out more images of each new Clones Black Series figure below. Which one do you like best? Tell us in comments, so that begun this discussion will be.
