
# Hero Splendor iSmart BS6 to launch tomorrow

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Vishal Venugopal**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/hero-to-launch-bs6-splendor-ismart-tomorrow-414801)

The new Splendor iSmart will feature a slightly larger engine, yet make 0.4hp less after BS6 update.
Hero has just announced that it will be launching its first BS6-compliant vehicle in the country tomorrow. The brand's digital invitation comprises the silhouette of a headlight that looks identical to that of the Splendor iSmart – the manufacturer’s first two-wheeler to obtain BS6 certification, earlier this year.
A month ago, a document online also revealed that the BS6 Splendor iSmart will get a slightly larger engine – 113.2cc compared to the 109.15cc engine on the outgoing model – which will now be fuel-injected, as well. We’re still unsure about how exactly the increase in displacement has come about, but it does suggest that a considerable amount of work has gone into the engine redesign. Despite the increase in capacity, however, the document revealed that the upcoming Splendor iSmart will make less power than in its current form – down from 9.5hp to 9.1hp – albeit still produced at 7,500rpm.
The document also revealed that the bike will be available in a drum-brake variant and a front disc-brake variant. Apart from the technical changes, we could also see some new colour schemes that will differentiate it from the outgoing model.
The technical changes that the BS6 norms bring about in two-wheelers is projected to increase prices by 10-15 percent – but considering how important the Splendor is for the manufacturer, Hero will be looking to keep the price hike as low as possible. 
Last evening, at EICMA 2019 in Milan, Hero also showcased the direction in which some of its future products are headed with the 1.R Concept. You can read all about that here.

        Also see:
      

        
          Hero Xpulse 200 Rally Kit announced at EICMA 2019
        
      
