
# East Kilbride Thistle No.2: Daft mistakes cost us at Larkhall

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Thomson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/paul-thomson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/east-kilbride-thistle-no2-daft-20816352)


        Larkhall Thistle...2 EK Thistle...0
      
East Kilbride Thistle assistant boss Stevie McPhillips insists daft mistakes cost them the chance to record back-to-back wins for the first time this season.
The Jags lost 2-0 away to Larkhall Thistle, despite dominating the game at Gasworks Park, and were left to rue defensive errors.
After a 1-0 win over Glasgow Perthshire last week and with gaffer Gary Hamilton on holiday, McPhillps was looking to lead the club to successive victories and a first away win in the league.
But it wasn’t to be as Larkhall took the points thanks to a Graham Gracie strike and a Jack Currie penalty early in the second half.
McPhillips said: “The scoreline didn’t reflect the true story of the game.
“First half, we totally dominated and just couldn’t score. We had a few shots blocked.
“But in the second half we made a daft mistake in the 55th minute. We got caught with too many players up the park and we lost a stupid long ball over the top and the boy scored.
“They got a dubious penalty for their second goal 10 minutes later and in between that we missed a one-on-one with the keeper for 1-1. We hit the post and bar as well.
“The Larkhall boys said to us it’s a completely different team we’ve got to the one that lost 4-0 to them in the League Cup section at the start of the season.
“They said we were the better team. I know it’s easy to say that when they’ve won the game anyway, but we were and it’s two daft mistakes that have cost us.
“The way we are setting up now, I don’t think we should fear anyone. The last two games we’ve played really well.”
The Jags dropped to 13th in the table after a fifth defeat on the road. However, attention now turns to Saturday’s West of Scotland Cup first round tie with Renfrew.
The clash was due to take place at the Showpark, but the Jags have switched it to Renfrew’s 4G surface at New Western Park, kick-off 1.45pm.
The Showpark was waterlogged this week and McPhillips said: “I’m happy for it to be switched because it menas we get it played. There’s been a lot of rain and our pitch doesn’t hold up well to that.
“I think we’d give anyone a game right now, the way the boys are playing.
“Renfrew are a league above us, so Saturday will be a good test for us.”
 
