
# Olympic 'task force' to catch dope cheats

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:23:28+00:00**

Author: **Sabi Hussain**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/more-sports/others/olympic-task-force-to-catch-dope-cheats/articleshow/71949808.cms)

NEW DELHI: International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) have directed all participating nations, including India, to constitute an 'Olympic Task Force' for anti-doping, the mandate of which will be to carry out a stringent drug testing of athletes, who will be part of a nation's contingent at the 2020 Tokyo Games.
The task force will likely be headed by the director general (DG) of the respective country's anti-doping agency - in India's case the DG of the National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA) - and the body will test the prospective athletes preferably at least three times ahead of the July 24-August 9 multi-sport event, TOI has learnt. These samples will be collected largely out-of-competition by NADA DCOs, during the time when an athlete trains in the off-season.
According to sources, the Indian athletes who will be tested as part of this IOC-WADA's doping programme, include - a. those who have already qualified for Tokyo Games, b. are likely to make the cut in upcoming qualifiers, c. holders of athlete biological passports, d. part of the NADA's registered testing pool (RTP) and domestic testing pool (DTP), apart from the list of prospective athletes as provided by the national sports federations (NSFs). Also, for NSFs who hold their training camps abroad, such as the athletics federation or the athletes individually preparing in foreign locations, the NADA will collaborate with the respective anti-doping agencies of that country to collect the samples and test them.
"The whole effort will be to test the athletes of the Indian contingent at least three times before the Games. This will rule out the possibility of a drug cheat travelling to Tokyo. Both the IOC and WADA officials discussed this pre-Games anti-doping mechanism in detail during the recently concluded 'Conference of Parties to the International Conference against Doping in Sport' in Paris last month. Also all the representatives of Asian blocks unanimously agreed to constitute this task force in their region as directed by the IOC and WADA to carry out the testing," a source said.
