
# Mudajaya reveals new major shareholder

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:40:41+00:00**

Author: **Chong Jin Hun**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/mudajaya-reveals-new-major-shareholder)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 1): Mudajaya Group Bhd said today Yakin Setiamas Sdn Bhd has emerged as a substantial shareholder in the builder after Yakin Setiamas acquired 162.33 million shares or a 27.52% stake in Mudajaya on Tuesday(Oct 29).
In filings with Bursa Malaysia today, Mudajaya said Ample Full Profits Ltd owns a 90% stake in Yakin Setiamas while Chamber Jewels Ltd hold the remaining 10%.
"The shareholders of Chamber Jewels are Mr James Wong Tet Foh and Mr Lee Eng Leong, each holding 50% equity interest. Wong and Lee do not have deemed interest in Yakin Setiamas pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016,"Mudajaya said.
In separate Bursa filings today, Mudajaya said Dataran Sentral (M) Sdn Bhd ceased to be a substantial shareholder in Mudajaya on Tuesday after Dataran Sentral sold its direct and indirect stake comprising 162.33 million shares in the builder.
Mudajaya said Dataran Sentral ceased to be a substantial shareholder following the "disposal of shares by Dataran Sentral" and "disposal of shares by Kingsman Capital Ltd".
According to Mudajaya, Kingsman ceased to be a substantial shareholder in Mudajaya on Tuesday after Kingsman sold 52.41 million Mudajaya shares.
At 12:30pm today, Mudajaya's share price settled down 2.5 sen or 6.94% at 33.5 sen. The stock saw some 17 million shares traded.
