
# 5 movies now streaming that you should watch

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Karen Han**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/2/20938937/5-movies-streaming-now-netflix-hulu-amazon-prime)

New movies are available to stream almost every day on every platform, making the already daunting task of choosing something to watch even more difficult. To help parse through the lot, we’ve taken a look at all the most recent additions and chosen the five best movies currently available to you.
From science fiction to psychological thriller to comedy, here’s what you should be streaming right now.
“Robots with feelings” is the best sub-genre of science fiction, and Steven Spielberg’s A.I. Artificial Intelligence is one of the best movies contained within. The film follows a young prototype Mecha child named David (Haley Joel Osment), who is forced to fend for himself when his adoptive family abandons him. As he struggles to survive, he encounters other abandoned Mecha, including Gigolo Joe (Jude Law), a male prostitute robot, and begins to wonder if it might be possible for him to ever become real.
Stream it on Amazon Prime
The source of a million GIFs and jokes in spy movies, Face/Off is one of the wildest action movies to come out of the ’90s, starring Nicolas Cage and John Travolta as a terrorist and an FBI agent whose game of cat and mouse takes an extreme turn. As per the film’s title, they end up switching faces, leading to more than a little confusion as to who’s who. Directed by John Woo (Hard Boiled, A Better Tomorrow, Mission: Impossible 2), Face/Off is unquestionably an over-the-top action romp, but you’ll have a hard time finding a movie that’s more chaotic fun.
Stream it on Hulu
With fresh news of a fourth Matrix movie, what better time than now to revisit The Matrix? The Wachowski sisters’ first installment is still as mind-blowing as it was when it was first released, painting a picture of a world in which humans are at war with machines, doing battle in both a post-apocalyptic landscape and a digital world known as the Matrix. Computer programmer Thomas Anderson (Keanu Reeves) finds himself swept up into the fight as Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), a key figure in the human resistance, believes him to be “the One” destined to end the war and free humankind.
Stream it on Netflix
In the years since its release, Adam McKay’s Step Brothers has come to be considered one of the best comedies of the past decade. Moments like Adam Scott forcing his family to perform a cappella, or Richard Jenkins’ “don’t lose your dinosaur” monologue, or Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly performing “Por Ti Volaré” at the Catalina Wine Mixer — they’ve all entered indelibly into pop culture. The tale of two step brothers (Ferrell and Reilly) whose instinctual antagonism turns to unbreakable friendship is an absurd one, but a hell of a funny one, too.
Stream it on Netflix
Based on Patricia Highsmith’s novel of the same name, The Talented Mr. Ripley sees defining performances from all of its leads. Matt Damon stars as Tom Ripley, a man with a talent for conning others — in particular, impersonation — whose aimlessness comes to an end when he meets Dickie Greenleaf (Jude Law). As his name practically implies, Dickie lives a carefree, lavish lifestyle with his father’s money. Ripley wants what Dickie has. The tale unspools with alarming rapidity from there.
Stream it on Hulu and Amazon Prime
