
# Strathclyde Park all set for annual fireworks display

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:26:14+00:00**

Author: **Shirley Bartynek, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/shirley-bartynek/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/strathclyde-park-set-annual-fireworks-20788118)

Strathclyde Park is all set to host another spectacular fireworks event on Tuesday evening.
The display will go off with a bang at 6.30pm on November 5.
The event, organised by North and South Lanarkshire Councils will see the bonfire being lit first and this will be followed by the display at 8pm.
The 50th anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing will be the theme of this year’s fireworks displays on Tuesday evening.
A funfair, provided by M&Ds Scotland’s Theme Park, will run from 4.30pm to 9.30pm near the Watersports Centre.
The Clyde 1 roadshow with Ewen and Cat will entertain the crowds with music and entertainment throughout the evening, with a performance by X Factor contestants Misunderstood.
Visitors to the Strathclyde Country Park event are advised to allow plenty of time for their journey, to follow road signs and directions from police and marshals, and to park responsibly.
Various road closures will be in place check out council’s websites for details.
Sparklers are not allowed within the park, and visitors should dress appropriately for the weather.
Glow in the dark wristbands are available for children to wear at the four fireworks events to help in reuniting parents and children if they become separated.
The bands will be available in advance at the Watersports Centre in Strathclyde Country Park and M&D’s, as well as at the events themselves.
