
# Dame Julie Andrews says Mary Poppins is just the woman to sort out Donald Trump

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:25:08+00:00**

Author: **Kelly Allen**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/damejulie-andrewssays-mary-poppins-just-20803129)

She’s practically perfect in every way, having taught a workaholic father to spend more time with his kids and two naughty children to tidy their room.
So it’s no surprise, Dame Julie Andrews thinks Mary Poppins is just the woman to sort out  Donald Trump .
Speaking at the Southbank Centre in London, when asked how differently he would have turned out if he had had a nanny like the no-nonsense Disney character.
There’s no doubt she finds the President the opposite of supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, she said: “Oh Mary Poppins would have shaped him up.
 
"God knows, if only we had the chance to try. “
The 84-year-old Oscar-winning actress previously blasted Trump for cutting funding to the arts describing it as “mind-boggling” and said she was “deeply disturbed” by him pulling America out of the Paris Climate Agreement.
The veteran star’s career has spanned 70 years including Mary Poppins, The Sound of Music and The Princess Diaries
She went on to work with her second husband, Blake Edward who she was with for 41 years before his death in 2010.
They worked together on numerous films including Victor/Victoria and Darli Lili.
Julie revealed her film maker husband often gave her advice on set – even on her love scenes.
She explained: “I was doing a love scene with Rock Hudson. The first time Blake really said it. We were passionately kissing and carrying on and he said: ‘That’s lovely, darling, but I know that you can do it better.”
Hope he delivered that news with a spoonful of sugar.
Meanwhile, Dame Julie recently revealed she needed therapy following the success of Mary Poppins.
The British star scooped a best actress Academy Award for her role as the magical nanny in her first Hollywood film aged 29.
Looking back she said: “l kept the Oscar in the attic for a very long time because I thought I’d been given it as a ‘Welcome to Hollywood’ and I didn’t feel worthy of it.
"So much early success sent me into therapy and analysis. I learnt you have to do it right and honour the films you are making. It’s a huge gift, but a lot of obligation.”
