
# Owen Farrell: 'No fear' mantra as England stand on edge of history

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:59:08+00:00**

Author: **Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/owen-farrell-name-checks-bok-triple-threat-including-half-back-of-the-tournament)

Owen Farrell expects his England team-mates to seize their opportunity to realise their boyhood dreams by emptying the tanks in Saturday’s World Cup final.
South Africa stand between Eddie Jones’ side and the Webb Ellis Trophy as the sport’s top two teams prepare to face off at International Stadium Yokohama in a repeat of the 2007 showpiece.
In recognition of how tight the contest could be – England are favourites but the Springboks have the firepower to cause mayhem up front and in midfield – Farrell was on Friday practising drop goals under the guidance of Jonny Wilkinson.
As the extra-time architect of Australia’s downfall in the 2003 final, Wilkinson’s counsel has been sought on the eve of a seismic clash between rivals who are tied at 2-2 in meetings over the last 18 months.
And Farrell has echoed Jones’ mantra of approaching the match with “no fear” by offering all-out commitment in the climax to the first Asian World Cup.

        Click here to see the video
      
“Everybody wants to be involved in this game and there are probably a lot of people who grew up wanting to be involved in this,” Farrell said.
“Now this opportunity has come around, you want to enjoy it, you want to go for it.
“You don’t want to dip your toe in and see what happens, you want to throw all of yourself into it and that’s the way that we’ll look to go about it.
“There are a lot of lads who have a good feel for where the group is and we’ll be open enough to feel what’s needed before the game.
