
# EICMA 2019: BMW F 900 R and F 900 XR unveiled

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:34:25+00:00**

Author: **Aditya Chatterjee  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/eicma-2019-bmw-f-900-r-and-f-900-xr-unveiled/)

BMW had been teasing of  all new motorcycles on their social platform, making everyone speculate about them being the F 850 RS/XR. BMW Motorrad has put all of that to rest by unveiling their new range of motorcycles, the F 900 R and the F 900 XR that will be showcased at EICMA 2019. BMW Motorrad is further expanding its product range for the popular mid-range. Going by BMW Motorrad's explanation, the XR stands for an uncompromising mix of sportiness and touring capability. Having established this family with the BMW S 1000 XR, BMW Motorrad is now expanding it with the addition of a mid-range model. The design style and vehicle concept clear refer to the kinship with the big sister.  The BMW F 900 R in dynamic roadster design with muscular front section, aggressive headlight graphics and short, slim rear section while the F 900 XR is an Adventure Sport look with striking contours and sporty, dynamic fairing.
In the new F 900 R and F 900 XR, enhanced riding dynamics are ensured by the further development of the 2-cylinder in-line engine first introduced in 2018 in the F 850 GS, now with 105PS and an even fuller torque curve. The main factor here is an increase in capacity to 895 cc (previously 853 cc). With an ignition distance of 270/450 degrees and a new underfloor silencer system, the engine offers a particularly emotional sound. In addition to the standard anti-hopping clutch, the new F 900 R and F 900 XR can be fitted with engine drag torque control (MSR) for the first time. It prevents the rear wheel from slipping as a result of abrupt throttling or downshifting, thereby ensuring even greater safety.
The new F 900 R and F 900 XR already offer the "Rain" and "Road" riding modes as standard. The standard trim also includes ABS and ASC Automatic Stability Control, which is disengageable. With "Riding Modes Pro" as an ex works option, the sporty characteristics of the new F 900 R and F 900 XR can be experienced even more intensively. The additional riding modes "Dynamic" and "Dynamic Pro", Dynamic Traction Control DTC and banking capable ABS Pro are available, along with Dynamic Brake Control (DBC) and the new engine drag torque control (MSR).
Like the GS models in the F Series, the new F 900 R and F 900 XR make use of a steel bridge frame that integrates the engine as a load-bearing element and a fuel tank that is now back in its classic position in front of the rider. Front wheel control is taken care of by an upside-down telescopic fork, while the rear wheel is guided by a double-sided swinging arm with central suspension strut. The light, plastic-welded fuel tanks with a capacity of 15.5 litres (F 900 XR) and 13 litres (F 900 R) are a world first in motorcycle construction. The bolt-on steel rear frame has also been newly developed for the F 900 R and F 900 XR in order to create a visually short and slim rear. While the new F 900 R is a dynamic roadster focusing on sporty use and therefore shorter spring travel, the new F 900 XR – with its somewhat longer spring travel – offers a noticeable increase in comfort and therefore an even wider range of potential uses.

        Also see, 
      

        Live Updates: All the action from EICMA 2019
      
