
# TikTok owner ByteDance has released a smartphone in China

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Jon Porter**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/4/20947721/tiktok-bytedance-smartisan-jianguo-pro-3-release-date-china-price-features)

TikTok owner ByteDance’s long-rumored smartphone has been released in China, reports Abacus News. The company has released the Jianguo Pro 3 under the Smartisan brand, after ByteDance acquired a number of Smartisan’s patents and employees earlier this year. The phone has a starting price of 2,899 yuan (around $412) and is available in China now.
Given ByteDance’s explosive growth that has come off the back of TikTok, it’s not surprising to hear that the phone comes preloaded with Douyin, the version of TikTok that ByteDance produces for the Chinese market. Abacus News reports that you get into the app by swiping up on the lock screen, after which you can apply TikTok’s effects and filters to your videos.
In terms of TikTok integration, it sounds like this is all you’re getting. Earlier this year, ByteDance confirmed that the smartphone is a “continuation of plans that were in place before ByteDance began working with Smartisan,” which explains why this isn’t a more heavily TikTok-integrated device.
The Jianguo Pro 3 has relatively high-end specs that wouldn’t look out of place on most flagships. It’s powered by a Snapdragon 855 Plus processor, has a 4,000mAh battery, and it features a quad-camera array on its rear. The array includes a main 48-megapixel sensor along with a 13-megapixel ultra-wide camera, an 8-megapixel telephoto camera, and a 5-megapixel macro camera. On the front there’s a 20-megapixel selfie camera and an in-display fingerprint sensor.
These competent specs suggest that we’re not looking at another Facebook or Amazon Fire phone misstep. However, with ByteDance having confirmed that its phone isn’t coming to the US, its more limited ambitions for the Jianguo Pro 3 are obvious.
