
# West Dunbartonshire workers to stage demo over bank holiday shake-up

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:38:23+00:00**

Author: **Jenny Foulds, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jenny-foulds/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/west-dunbartonshire-workers-stage-demo-20815761)

Furious unions are set to rally after calls for an extra bank holiday in May were rejected.
West Dunbartonshire Joint Trade Unions have hit out at the local authority and are planning a demonstration at the next council meeting later this month.
The council made the decision to shift the usual May Day bank holiday to the Friday to coincide with the 75th anniversary of VE Day.
Last week, Councillor Jim Bollan tabled a motion at a full council meeting calling for the extra holiday to be recognised at a cost of £100,000, which was rejected by councillors.
SNP councillor Ian Dickson moved an amendment, which was approved, saying the council had already reached an agreement with the joint trade unions to move the public holiday.
However, the joint trade unions, comprising Unison, Unite, GMB and EIS, deny an agreement was reached.
In a statement this week, they said: “This is untrue, there was no such agreement.
“The trade union convenors stated they would take this proposal back to their branches as part of the democratic process of their unions and they have rejected the proposal as they wish to continue to enjoy the right to celebrate the traditional May Day bank holiday as International Workers’ Day.

        Busy West Dunbartonshire route named as one of the country's most dangerous
      
“The SNP administration say such a change is in line with Scottish Government policy and is what most councils in Scotland are doing. The joint trade unions pointed out that progressive councils such as North Ayrshire are giving their staff both these days off and we wish the same treatment in West Dunbartonshire.”
They say a demonstration will be held on Wednesday, November 27 to express their discontent over the change, as well as “austerity policies of cuts in services and attacks on terms and conditions”.
The unions added: “Furthermore, the joint trade unions invite the community to come along to support for our demands and show support for what the unions believe is the victimisation of Councillor Jim Bollan who throughout his tenure as a councillor as been a staunch ally of the trade union movement.”
For more local news, click here
