
# Browns waive Jermaine Whitehead after expletive-laden 'cracker' tweet

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:03:34+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/04/jermaine-whitehead-cracker-tweet-cleveland-browns-nfl)

The Cleveland Browns have released safety Jermaine Whitehead after he directed a threatening, expletive-laced post at an analyst on the team’s radio network.
Dustin Fox, a former NFL player who now works for Browns radio, called Whitehead’s tackling during the team’s loss to the Denver Broncos on Sunday a “joke”. Whitehead was also the subject of criticism from fans on Twitter.
Whitehead used a racial slur in response to Fox’s comments on Twitter. “I’m out there with a broke hand.. don’t get smoked fuck ass cracker,” he wrote. He also threatened another user on Twitter, writing: “Imma kill you bitch”. Whitehead’s account was suspended shortly afterwards but he continued to vent his anger on Instagram, threatening another user.
On Sunday night, a Browns spokesperson told ESPN that Whitehead’s comments were “totally unacceptable and highly inappropriate”. On Monday morning they waived him.
The 26-year-old was in his second season with the Browns. He previously played for the Green Bay Packers, who released him after he was ejected for slapping an opponent.
The incident was another bump in a disappointing season for the Browns. They were widely tipped to contend in the AFC North after missing the playoffs for the previous 16 seasons. Instead, the loss to the Broncos left the team with a 2-6 record and little hope of reaching the postseason.
