
# I’m all for fourth umpire if right decisions can be made, states Adam Gilchrist

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:57:43+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/im-all-for-fourth-umpire-if-right-decisions-can-be-made-states-adam-gilchrist?utm_medium=rss)


        Australian great Adam Gilchrist has offered his support for the proposal to have a fourth umpire specifically to check no-balls in the IPL provided the correct decisions are made. The proposal was put forward during the IPL governing council meeting at the BCCI headquarters yesterday.
      
All through last season, there was a lot of hue and cry following some debatable decisions with regards to front-foot no-balls. One particular incident included a heated exchange between RCB skipper Virat Kohli and Indian umpire S Ravi, who failed to spot a no-ball by Mumbai Indians’ Lasith Malinga, which proved costly for Kohli’s side during one of the IPL matches. 
“It is pretty challenging for the on-field umpire to look down there, look up there, have everything else going on. Surely there was a replay last year that showed it was a no-ball. That should be allowed, whether you need the fourth umpire, maybe not why can’t the third umpire just look at the replay and just go 'not out'. That is the simpler version I would have thought. If it means having a fourth one (umpire) and he is going to get the right decision I am all for it,” Gilchrist told PTI.
When asked whether the extra umpire will slow things down, Gilchrist replied that the decisions will be instant. “No, because they can decide in an instant. I work in broadcast, they can have a replay within five seconds,” Gilchrist added.
The concept is likely to be tested out in a domestic tournament before a final call is taken on the matter.
