
# Setting up a Nest Wifi Mesh? Here's how many Points you'll need

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:00:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/how-many-nest-wifi-points-do-you-need-your-home?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Best answer: It depends on the size of your home. For smaller homes and apartments, we suggest purchasing the standalone Nest Wifi Router. For most houses, the Nest Wifi Router and Point is the best choice. Nest Wifi Points can also be purchased individually to expand your network as-needed.
For most apartments (and many smaller homes), the router alone should be more than enough, providing coverage for up to 2200 square feet. We expect most homeowners will be able to make do with the router and a single Wifi point.
You can also purchase the Nest Wifi Points individually. That way, if you encounter unexpected interference or your house is a bit larger than you thought, there's no need to stress. Nest still has you covered. Really, overall, it comes down to the size of your livingspace and how much area you'd like to cover.
Nest Wifi represents an evolution of Google's existing Google Wifi product line. As you might expect, the newer Nest products are significantly faster than their predecessors, enabling better speed, improved reliability, and more devices on a single network. That's not the only change Google's made with Nest, though.
Each Nest Wifi Point also doubles as a Google Home Mini, allowing you to play audio or access the Google Assistant from any room they're installed in. It's a neat touch, though it may feel a bit unnecessary if you already have speakers in every room of your home. Fortunately, as with Google Home, there's a physical switch that lets you turn off the Wifi Point's microphone.
Powerful, Reliable, Expandible
Google's Nest Wifi Router is a marked improvement on the previous model, with AC2200 speed and full mesh capability.
A router, a smart speaker, and a mesh network all in one
For most homes, this will be the go-to choice. As an added bonus, you can use the Nest Wifi Point as a Google Home speaker.
More than just a network extender
Since Google sells its Nest Wifi Points individually, you can purchase a router for now and buy these Google Assistant compatible mesh extenders as-needed.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Hello, you're covered The best covers and wall plates for your Nest Hello doorbell Keep your Nest Hello protected from the elements or make it stand out one your home with a cover or a wall plate.
      

        SAVE YOUR MONEY These are the best smart home upgrades you can buy for $50 or less Building out a smart home full of colored lights and smart switches seems daunting and expensive, but you can get started tomorrow with any of these great products for just $50.
      

        Buyer's guide How to upgrade your smart home set up for under $100 You can add some smart home magic to your home with any of these products that are available for under $100.
      
