
# Disney Classic Games: Aladdin and The Lion King is a fantastic collection of a few very old games

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Carter**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/disney-classic-games-aladdin-and-the-lion-king-is-a-fantastic-collection-of-a-few-very-old-games-571007.phtml)

Many retro games do hold up. I mean look at the masterpiece that is VVVVVV. Based on a heavily Commodore 64 aesthetic, it uses new-school design but is firmly rooted in an old school foundation. Many retro games are what I like to call "clean," with simple mechanics that it executes to the letter. 
Aladdin Genesis and Lion King SNES (and friends) are not what I'd call fully "clean" games, but as far as licensed joints go, they're above board. The appeal is certainly limited when it comes to a newer audience, but the comprehensive Disney Classic Games package makes it an easier sell.
Before I even talk about the games it's important to note that this collection is legit, and arguably a member of the gold standard in terms of how to treat retro re-releases. Not only does it include multiple versions for each game (Genesis, GB, GBC, Japan-edition, and in the case of The Lion King, SNES), but it also gives you the works in terms of options that eclipse what a mere ROM runthrough would provide.
It has the standard rewind feature, sure, but the "watch" concept, that allows the game to automatically run through any portion of the game for you, is brilliant. It's been done before, but anyone who's played The Lion King and remembers the very early "I Just Can't Wait to be King" stage hurdle, this option is a godsend. It also kind of just does it effortlessly without making such a big deal about it, which is what all these retro packages should be doing baseline. 
Digital Eclipse also went the full mile, providing a never-public-before technical demo for Aladdin (and a final cut version with bug fixes), as well as a museum portion that puts most of the "extra" menu options in other collections to shame. I'm talking tons of video (almost a short documentary's worth) and art from Disney itself. The fact that both of these properties are relevant again with live-action remakes (as polarizing as they may be) is perfect timing, and makes it a fun holiday gift for a hardcore Disney fan (there's cartoon movie extra art too!). I appreciate that the galleries actually have explanations too, and that they're not just .jpg dumps.
